




"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Railway Act


Part IX: Locomotive Cranes Regulations

B.C. Reg. 460/59





Note: This regulation has been placed in the Regulations Point in
Time collection. This regulation is not repealed.





B.C. Reg. 460/59


O.C. 2886/59; Certificate 1003

1








Railway Act


Part IX: Locomotive Cranes Regulations




Steam Locomotive Crane Regulations



Interpretation




Definitions





In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires:


"Act"
means the
Railway Act
of British Columbia;


"certificate"
means a certificate of inspection made by an inspector;


"chief inspector"
or
"inspector"
means an inspecting engineer, inspector or assistant inspector
appointed under the provisions of the Act or of the
Public Service Act
;


"locomotive crane"
means and includes the boiler, steam engine or engines, steam
pipes and connections and every part thereof, and all apparatus
and things attached to and connected therewith or used with
reference thereto, and shall include steam shovels, ditchers, pile
drivers and any other self propelled work equipment;


"locomotive crane engineer"
means any person having charge of or operating a locomotive crane;


"owner"
means any person, firm or corporation in possession of a
locomotive crane, and includes the manager or other chief officer
of such firm or corporation.

[am. B.C. Reg. 40/91, s. 6.]



Extent and Application of Regulations




Application



1

These regulations shall apply to all locomotive cranes operating
under the jurisdiction of the government of British Columbia.





Portions of Boiler Code applicable



2

That portion of the regulations known as Parts I, III and IV of
the British Columbia Railway Department Boiler Code, adopted by
Order in Council No. 126 under the
Railways Act
on January 21, 1947, shall govern the design, registration and
construction of all pressure parts used on locomotive cranes. In
particular, Part I, relating to the design, registration and
construction of power boilers, shall govern the design,
registration and construction of locomotive crane boilers and
their appurtenances; Part III, relating to the design,
registration and construction of unfired pressure vessels, shall
govern the design, registration and construction of unfired
pressure vessels used on locomotive cranes; and Part IV, relating
to the welding of steam boilers and pressure vessels, shall govern
the welding of all pressure parts used on locomotive cranes.




General Inspection Regulations




Inspection frequency



3

Every locomotive crane shall be inspected before being put into
service and at least every 12 months thereafter by an inspector of
the ministry. Inspectors shall have the right, at all reasonable
hours, to examine locomotive cranes and may refuse to grant a
certificate for any locomotive crane found defective according to
the provisions of these regulations. They may order out of service
any locomotive crane which for any cause they consider unfit and
dangerous to operate.





Reporting of defects



4

It is the duty of every locomotive crane engineer to inform the
inspector of any defects known or believed to exist in the
locomotive crane under his charge. The certificate of competency
of any locomotive crane engineer refusing or refraining from doing
so may be revoked by the inspector.





If boilers too hot for safety



5

Inspectors may decline to examine boilers considered too hot for
safety and convenience, and shall refuse to grant certificates for
same until a satisfactory examination can be made.





Thickness of plate



6

In order to satisfy himself as to the thickness of a plate or the
internal condition of a boiler, the inspector may, should he deem
it necessary, order holes to be cut therein and may demand such
information by drawings and specifications of the several parts as
will enable him to determine their strength. In the event of such
information being unobtainable, he shall use a safety factor of
5.5, with such additions thereto as his judgment may dictate.





Removal of jacket and covering



7

At the first inspection of a locomotive crane the jacket and
covering shall be removed by the owner or his agent, so that a
thorough examination of the plates and rivets can be made. At
subsequent inspections such jacket and covering or any part of
same shall be removed upon the request of the inspector.





Lap joint longitudinal seams



8

Every boiler having lap joint longitudinal seams without
reinforcing plates shall be examined with special care in order to
detect any grooving or cracks at the edges of the seams.





Safety valves, etc.



9

Inspectors shall see that the safety valves, water gauges, test
cocks, blowoff pipes, main steam pipes and all fittings and
connections of boilers are in good order and sufficient in number,
and that they comply with the requirements of these regulations.





Calculation of strength



10

Inspectors shall calculate the strength of locomotive crane
boilers by formulae provided in the British Columbia Railway
Department Boiler Code, and shall determine the safe working
pressure thereof according to the calculated strength of the
various parts and the workmanship and material of which they are
composed, and shall record such working pressure upon the
certificate of inspection. In cases where the necessary formula
for any type of boiler is not provided, application shall be made
to the chief inspector, who shall furnish same.





Reporting excess of pressure



11

In cases where inspectors find that a locomotive crane boiler is
or has been carrying an excess of pressure beyond that which has
been recorded on the certificate of inspection, they shall report
same to the chief inspector for prosecution, and require the owner
to install thereon a lockup valve of approved pattern to prevent
the carrying of excessive pressure.




Certificates




Issuance of certificate



12

A certificate shall be issued by the inspector for every
locomotive crane found, after inspection and testing, to be in
satisfactory working condition. Such certificate, showing date of
last inspection and working pressure allowed, shall be placed
under glass in the cab of every such locomotive crane.





Period of certificate



13

Certificates shall be issued covering a period of 12 months, but
should the inspector consider it advisable, he may issue a
certificate for a lesser period.





Suspension of certificate



14

Inspectors finding defects in any locomotive crane having an
unexpired certificate may suspend such certificate until repairs
are made or necessary fittings supplied.





Repealed



15

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 2/99, App. 4, s. 1.]




Fees




Fees



16

The owner of a steam locomotive crane must pay the applicable fee
prescribed in the Railway Fees Regulation for an annual inspection
of the steam locomotive crane.

[en. B.C. Reg. 2/99, App. 4, s. 2.]




Repealed



17-18

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 2/99, App. 4, s. 1.]




Interior Inspection of Boilers




Interior examination before boiler in service



19

Inspectors shall examine the interior of every boiler thoroughly
before it is put into service and whenever a sufficient number of
flues are removed to allow of examination.





What examination must cover



20

Inspectors shall examine the entire interior of the boiler for
cracks, pitting, grooving or indication of overheating, and for
damage where mud has collected or heavy scale formed. The edges of
plates, all laps, seams and points where cracks and defects are
likely to develop, or where an exterior examination may have
indicated possible defects, must be given an especially minute
examination. It must be seen that braces and stays are taut, that
pins are properly secured in place and that each is in a condition
to support its proportion of the load.




Exterior Inspection of Boilers




Exterior examination



21

Inspectors shall examine the exterior of every boiler thoroughly
before it is put into service and whenever the jacket and lagging
are removed.





How often examination must occur



22

The jacket and lagging shall be removed after 60 calendar months
service, provided such service is performed within 6 consecutive
years. The inspector shall examine the entire exterior of the
boiler while it is under hydrostatic pressure. If the inspector
considers it necessary, he may order the removal of the jacket and
lagging at any time when leaks are indicated.




Hydrostatic Testing of Boilers




Frequency of hydrostatic testing



23

Inspectors may, whenever it is deemed necessary, and they shall,
before a locomotive crane is put into service, and at least once
every year thereafter, subject the boiler of same to a hydrostatic
test 25% in excess of the working pressure allowed, using water at
a temperature of 100Â° Fahrenheit; provided, however, that such
test may be omitted for reasons to be stated in the inspector's
report.





Owner must provide piping and fittings



24

For the purpose of such tests the owner or his agent shall provide
the necessary piping and fittings to connect the inspector's pump
to the boiler, and shall provide men to fill the boiler with
water, make all joints, work the test pump and assist the
inspector during the test.





Interior surface inspection



25

The handhole covers must be removed and the interior surface and
connections of the boiler examined as thoroughly as conditions
will permit.





Examination after repairs



26

When all necessary repairs have been completed, the boiler shall
be fired up and the steam pressure raised, and the boiler and
appurtenances carefully examined. All cocks, valves, seams, rivets
and bolts must be tight under the pressure and all defects
disclosed must be repaired.





Repair of defects and reinspection



27

In any case where defects are discovered or in which the test is
unsatisfactory to the inspector, the defects shall be made good
and the boiler reinspected before a certificate is issued.





Method of testing rigid bolts



28

The inspector must tap each bolt and determine the broken bolts
from the sound or the vibration of the sheet. If staybolt tests
are made when the boiler is filled with water, there must be not
less than 50 pounds pressure on the boiler. Should the boiler not
be under pressure, the test may be made after draining all the
water from the boiler, in which case the vibration of the sheet
will indicate any unsoundness.





Broken staybolts



29

No boiler shall be allowed to remain in service when there are 2
adjacent staybolts broken or plugged in any part of the firebox or
combustion chamber, nor when 3 or more are broken or plugged in a
circle 4 feet in diameter, nor when 5 or more are broken or
plugged in the entire boiler.





Telltale holes



30

All staybolts shorter than 8 inches shall have telltale holes at
least 3/16 inch in diameter and not less than 1 1/4 inches deep in
the outer end. These holes must be kept open at all times.




Steam Gauges




Location of Gauges



31

Every boiler shall have at least one steam gauge which will
correctly indicate the working pressure. Care must be taken to
locate the gauge so that it will be kept reasonably cool and can
be conveniently read by the enginemen.





Siphon



32

Every gauge shall have a siphon of ample capacity to prevent steam
entering the gauge. The pipe connection shall enter the boiler
direct, and shall be maintained steamtight between the boiler and
gauge. The siphon pipe and its connections to the boiler must be
cleaned each time the gauge is tested.





Time of testing



33

Steam gauge shall be tested at each hydrostatic test and also when
any irregularity is reported.





Method of testing



34

Steam gauges shall be compared with an accurate test gauge or dead
weight tester, and gauges found inaccurate shall be corrected
before being put into service.





Stamping



35

The identification number and working pressure shall be stamped on
the boiler above the firedoor, and if the boiler is lagged the
lagging and jacket shall be cut away so that the stamping can be
seen.




Safety Valves




Safety valve



36

Each boiler shall have at least one safety valve, and if it has
more than 500 square feet of water heating surface or a steam
generating capacity exceeding 2 000 pounds per hour, it shall have
2 or more safety valves, the capacity of which shall be sufficient
to prevent, under any condition of service, an accumulation of
pressure more than 6% above the allowed steam pressure.





Setting of safety valves



37

Safety valves shall be set by the gauge used on the boiler to pop
at pressures and not exceeding 3% above the allowed steam
pressure; the gauge in all cases to be tested before the safety
valves are set or any changes made in the setting. When safety
valves are being set, the water level in the boiler must not be
above the highest gauge cock.





Time of testing



38

Safety valves shall be tested under steam at least once every 3
months, and also when any irregularity is reported.




Water Glass and Gauge Cocks




Water glass and gauge cocks



39

Every boiler shall be equipped with at least one water glass and 3
gauge cocks. The lowest gauge cock and the lowest reading of the
water glass shall be not less than 3 inches above the fire line,
which for horizontal, locomotive type and upright tubular boilers
of submerged type shall be the highest point of the crown sheet or
fire tube. In dry top upright tubular boilers where the tubes
exceed 5 feet in length, the lowest gauge cock and lowest reading
of the water glass shall be not less than 2/3 the distance between
the tube sheets measured from the lower tube sheet.





Shut off and drain cocks



40

All water glasses shall be supplied with 2 valves or shut off
cocks, one at the upper and one at the lower connection of the
boiler, and also a drain cock, so constructed and located that
they can be easily opened and closed by hand.





Cleaning of cocks



41

The spindles of all gauge cocks and water glass cocks shall be
removed and cocks thoroughly cleaned of scale and sediment at
least once each month.





Testing and maintenance



42

All water glasses must be blown out and gauge cocks tested before
each shift, and gauge cocks must be maintained in such condition
that they can be easily opened and closed by hand without the aid
of a wrench or other tool.





Water glass shields



43

Water gauge glass mountings on all locomotive cranes must be
protected by a suitable cage. These appurtenances must be so
protected and located as to ensure a correct reading of the level
of the water in the boiler at all times, and be in full view of
both the engineer and fireman, and the lights so placed that there
will be a clear and unobstructed view of the water in the
mounting.





Water glass lamps



44

All water glasses must be supplied with a suitable lamp properly
located to enable the engineer to see easily the water in the
glass.




Injectors




Condition of injectors



45

Injectors must be kept in good condition, free from scale, and
must be tested before each trip. Boiler checks, delivery pipes,
feed water pipes, tank hose and tank valves must be kept in good
condition, free from leaks and from foreign substances that would
obstruct the flow of water.




Washing Boilers




Time of washing



46

All boilers should be thoroughly washed as often as the water
conditions require, but not less frequently than once each month.
All boilers shall be considered as having been in continuous
service between washouts, unless the dates of the days that the
boiler was out of service are properly certified on washout
reports and the report of inspection.





Plugs to be removed



47

When boilers are washed, all handhole and washout, arch and water
bar lugs must be removed.





Water tubes



48

Special attention must be given the arch and water bar tubes to
see that they are free from scale and sediment.





Office record



49

An accurate record of all locomotive crane boiler washouts shall
be kept in the office of the railway company. The following
information must be entered on the day that the boiler is washed:

(a)Â number of locomotive crane;
(b)Â date of washout;

(c)Â signature of boiler washer or inspector;


(d)Â statement that spindles of gauge cocks and water glass
cocks were removed and cocks cleaned;


(e)Â signature of the boiler inspector or the employee who
removed the spindles and cleaned the cocks.




Steam Leaks




Leaks under lagging



50

If a serious leak develops under the lagging, an examination must
be made and the leak located. If the leak is found to be due to a
crack in the shell or to any other defect which may reduce safety,
the boiler must be taken out of service at once and the chief
inspector notified before any repairs are made.





Leaks in front of enginemen



51

All steam valves, cocks and joints, studs, bolts and seams shall
be kept in such repair that they will not emit steam in front of
the enginemen so as to obscure their vision.




Filing Reports




Specification card



52

A specification card, size 8 by 10 1/2 inches, Form No. 4,
containing the results of the calculations made in determining the
working pressure and other necessary data, shall be filed in the
office of the chief inspector for each locomotive crane boiler.
Every specification card shall be verified by the engineer making
the calculations and shall be approved by the chief inspector.
These specification cards shall be filed as promptly as thorough
examination and accurate calculation will permit. Where accurate
drawings of boilers are available, the data for specification
card, said Form No. 4, may be taken from the drawings, and such
specification cards must be completed and forwarded forthwith.
Where accurate drawings are not available, the required data must
be obtained at the first opportunity, when general repairs are
made or when flues are removed.


When any repairs or changes are made which affect the data shown
on the specification card, Form No. 4, a corrected card or an
alteration report on a form, size 8 by 10 1/2 inches, properly
certified to, giving details of such changes, shall be filed
within 30 days from the date of their completion. This report
should cover:


(a)Â application of new barrel sheets or domes;


(b)Â application of patches to barrels or domes of boilers or
to portion of wrapper sheet of crown bar boilers which is not
supported by staybolts;

(c)Â longitudinal seam reinforcements;

(d)Â changes in size or number of braces, giving maximum
stress;


(e)Â initial application of superheaters, arch or waterbar
tubes, giving number and dimensions of tubes;


(f)Â changes in number or capacity of safety valves.


Report of patches should be accompanied by a drawing or blueprint
of the patch, showing its location in regard to the centre line of
the boiler, giving all necessary dimensions, and showing the
nature and location of the defect. Patches previously applied
should be reported the first time the boiler is stripped to permit
an examination.





Inspection certificates



53

(1)Â  A certificate issued by the ministry showing date of
inspection and steam pressure allowed shall be placed under glass
in the cab of locomotive crane.


(2)Â  A certificate issued by the ministry showing date of
inspection and steam pressure allowed on all other equipment shall
be placed in a conspicuous place on said equipment.





Damage reports



54

In all cases of damage to fireboxes in locomotive cranes by
shortage of water, a report covering such damage must be promptly
forwarded to the chief inspector.





Numbers of cranes



55

Companies shall file with the chief inspector a list showing the
numbers of all locomotive cranes owned or leased by them; also a
list giving the numbers of all additional locomotive cranes that
may be purchased, built or leased by the said companies from time
to time.




Inspection of Locomotive Cranes




Whistle



56

Every locomotive crane or other motive power used for hauling or
switching cars shall be equipped and maintained with a whistle.





Inspection daily



57

Every locomotive crane shall be inspected after each shift or
day's work, and any serious defects found shall be repaired before
the locomotive crane is returned to service.





Steam or air brakes



58

It must be known before each shift that the brakes on locomotive
cranes are in safe and suitable condition for service; that the
air compressor or compressors, where used, are in condition to
provide an ample supply of air for the service in which the
locomotive crane is used; and that all other devices for
controlling or regulating the steam or air pressure are properly
maintained.





Testing main reservoirs



59

Every main reservoir, before being put into service and at least
once after 12 calendar months service, provided such service is
performed within 2 consecutive years, shall be subjected to
hydrostatic pressure not less than 25% above the maximum air
pressure. The entire surface of the reservoir shall be hammer
tested each time the locomotive crane is shopped for general
repairs, but not less frequently than once after 18 calendar
months service, provided such service is performed within 2
consecutive years.





Draught gear



60

Draught gear and attachments on locomotive cranes shall be
securely fastened and maintained in safe and suitable condition
for service.





Compliance with safety appliance standards



61

All locomotive cranes shall comply with the safety appliance
standards of the ministry with respect to the footboards,
handholds, couplers, uncoupling levers, running boards, handrails
and steps.




Lights




Headlights



62

Each locomotive crane used between sunset and sunrise shall have a
headlight which will enable persons with normal vision in the cab
of the locomotive crane, under normal weather conditions, to see a
dark object the size of a man for a distance of 300 feet or more
ahead of the locomotive crane, and such headlights must be
maintained in good condition.





Cab lights



63

Each locomotive crane used between sunset and sunrise shall have
cab lamps which will provide sufficient illumination for the
steam, air and water gauges to enable the enginemen to make
necessary and accurate readings from their usual and proper
positions in the cab. These lights shall be so located and
constructed that the light will shine only on those parts
requiring illumination. Locomotive cranes used in road service
shall have an additional lamp conveniently located to enable the
person operating the locomotive crane to easily and accurately
read train orders and timetables and so constructed that it may be
readily darkened or extinguished.




Locomotive Crane Regulations




Locomotive crane regulations



64

Locomotive cranes which are defective or do not comply with
specification as prescribed in the following list must not be
allowed to remain in service:


(a)
Steam leaks
â steam leaks from any part of a locomotive crane which render it
impossible for engineer to see signals in sufficient time to
enable him to bring his crane to a stop within the required
distance.


(b)
Steam or air brakes
â Steam or air brakes on locomotive cranes not in serviceable
condition.


(c)
Wheels
â


(i)Â  Wheels shall be securely pressed on axles. Prick
punching or shimming the wheel fit will not be permitted. The
diameter of wheels on the same axle shall not vary more than 3/32
inch;


(ii)Â  Wheels used on standard gauge track will be out of
gauge if the inside gauge of flanges, measured on base line, is
less than 53 inches or more than 53 3/8 inches;


(iii)Â  The distance back to back of flanges of wheels mounted
on the same axle shall not vary more than 1/4 inch.


(d)
Cast iron or cast steel wheels
â Cast iron or cast steel wheels with any of the following defects
shall not be continued in service:


(i)
Slid flat
â When the flat spot is 2 1/2 inches or over in length, or if
there are 2 or more adjoining spots each 2 inches or over in
length;


(ii)
Broken or chipped flange
â If the chip exceeds 1 1/2 inches in length and 1/2 inch in
width;


(iii)
Broken rim
â If the tread, measured from the flange at a point 5/8 inch above
the tread, is less than 3 3/4 inches in width;


(iv)
Shelled Out
â Wheels with defective treads on account of cracks or shelled out
spots 2 1/2 inches or over, or so numerous as to endanger the
safety of the wheel;


(v)
Brake burn
â Wheels having defective tread on account of cracks or shelling
out due to heating;


(vi)Â  Seams 1/2 inch long or over, at a distance of 1/2 inch
or less from the throat of the flange, or seams 3 inches or more
in length, if such seams are within the limits of 3 3/4 inches
from the flange, measured at a point 5/8 inch from the tread;


(vii)
Worn flanges
â Wheels on axles with journals 5 inches by 9 inches or over with
flanges having flat vertical surfaces extending 7/8 inch or more
from the tread, or flanges one inch thick or less gauged at a
point 3/8 inch above tread. Wheels on axles with journals less
than 5 inches by 9 inches with flanges having flat vertical
surfaces extending one inch or more from the tread, or flanges
15/16 inch thick or less gauged at a point 3/8 inch above the
tread;


(viii)
Tread worn hollow
â If the tread is worn sufficiently hollow to render the flange or
rim liable to breakage;


(ix)
Burst
â If the wheels are cracked from the wheel fit outwards;


(x)Â  Cracked tread, cracked plate or one or more cracked
brackets;

(xi)Â  Wheels out of gauge;
(xii)Â  Wheels loose on axle.



Note: The determination of flat spots, worn flanges and broken
rims shall be made by A.A.R. wheel defect gauge (Fig. 8).





(e)
Forged steel or steel tired wheels
â Forged steel or steel tired wheels with any of the following
defects shall not be continued in service:


(i)Â  Loose wheels; loose, broken or defective retaining rings
or tires, broken or cracked hubs, plates, spokes or bolts;


(ii)Â  Slid flat spot 2 1/2 inches or longer; or, if there are
2 or more adjoining spots, each 2 inches or longer;


(iii)Â  Defective tread on account of cracks or shelled out
spots 2 1/2 inches or longer, or so numerous as to endanger the
safety of the wheel;

(iv)Â  Broken flange;

(v)Â  Flange worn to 15/16 inch or less in thickness, gauged
at a point 3/8 inch above the tread, or having flat vertical
surface one inch or more from the tread; tread worn 3/8 inch;
flange more than 1 1/2 inches from tread to top of flange;

(vi)Â  Wheels out of gauge.

(f)
Springs
â Locomotive cranes with defective springs on any part of the
locomotive crane which are unable to carry their respective
weights.




Accidents and Their Investigation




In case of explosion



65

In case of an explosion taking place in any locomotive crane, or
other power, for which the owner or lessee thereof has not
obtained a certificate of inspection, or if the certificate of
inspection has expired, and any person be killed or injured
thereby, or any property be destroyed or damaged, the owner or
lessee of such locomotive crane or other power shall prima facie
be deemed guilty of negligence, and liable for any injury
occasioned by such explosion, and the onus shall be on the owner
or lessee of such locomotive crane or other power to show that all
reasonable and proper precautions had been taken to prevent such
explosion or accident.





In case of accident from failure of boiler



66

In the case of an accident resulting from failure, from any cause,
of a locomotive crane boiler, or other boilers, or any of their
appurtenances, resulting in serious injury or death to one or more
persons, the company owning or operating such locomotive or other
boilers shall immediately transmit by wire to the chief inspector
at his office in Vancouver, B.C., report of such accident, stating
the nature of the accident, the place at which it occurred, and
where the locomotive crane boiler or other boilers may be
inspected. Such wire shall immediately be confirmed by mail,
giving a full detailed report of such accident, stating, so far as
may be known, the causes, and giving a complete list of the killed
or injured.





Reporting of accident



67

On the occurrence of an accident to any locomotive crane or other
equipment, the engineer in charge shall report such accident in
writing to the chief inspector, or, in default, the inspector may
cancel his certificate.





No interference with fittings until after inspection



68

Water glass mountings, all gauge cocks or any of the appurtenances
in connection with the water supply of the locomotive crane boiler
must not be removed from the boiler and in no way interfered with
until after the chief inspector has completed his inspection.





Investigation regarding accident



69

The chief inspector may hold an investigation with respect to any
accident to any part of a locomotive crane or other equipment to
which these regulations apply, and with respect to any injury
caused to any person or property by the alleged negligence or
incompetence of an engineer holding a certificate; and he may
summon witnesses and compel their attendance before him by the
same process as courts of justice, and may administer oaths and
examine witnesses touching the cause of such accident, and he
shall forthwith report in writing thereon to the minister.





Appeal to minister



70

An appeal shall lie from any ruling or decision of an inspector to
the chief inspector, and from him to the minister, whose decision
shall be final.





Expert assistance



71

In any appeal the minister, if he thinks fit, may summon to his
assistance any expert engineer, who shall attend and assist
accordingly.





Charge or complaint against inspector



72

Any charge of neglect of duty or other complaint against an
inspector shall be made in writing to the minister, stating the
specific charge or charges.





Penalty



73

Every company or railway company violating any of the provisions
of these regulations shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding
$300 for each and every violation.




Locomotive Crane Engineers' Certificates of Competency




Certificate requirement



74

No person shall be employed as engineer, and no person shall act
as engineer on any locomotive crane operation under these
regulations, unless the person so employed or acting holds a
certificate of competency issued under the

Power Engineers and Boiler and Pressure Vessel Safety Act

, or a certificate granted by the minister; provided, however,
that in case of illness or unavoidable cause the engineer in
charge is absent from duty, without fault or collusion of the
owners or of any person interested, and an engineer holding such
certificate is not available, then such deficiency may be filled
temporarily until an engineer holding such certificate can be
obtained, and the chief inspector shall be immediately notified of
the temporary change by the owner of the locomotive crane and by
the person acting temporarily as engineer.





Application for examination



75

Candidates for examination must fill out a form of application
which can be obtained from the chief inspector, and when properly
filled in should be returned to him, together with the applicable
fee prescribed in the Railway Fees Regulation.


[am. B.C. Regs. 172/87, s. 4 (i); 2/99, App. 4, s. 3.]





Testimonials required



76

All candidates must produce testimonials as to service as
engineers or firemen, such testimonials to be signed by their
employers. Candidates must have at least 12 months service as
engineers or firemen on locomotive cranes, or boilers, and must
enclose with their application for examination a certificate from
some qualified physician certifying to the condition of their
eyesight and hearing, as required by the Visual Acuity, Colour
Perception and Hearing of Railway Employees Regulations (B.C. Reg.
457/59).





Railway company examinations



77

Railway companies having mechanical and operating rules approved
by the ministry must examine their employees as to general
mechanical ability and knowledge of such rules before giving them
employment or promotion. They must also notify the chief inspector
at least one month before such examinations take place, in order
that an inspector appointed by the ministry may be in attendance.





Term of certificate



78

Each certificate, unless stated therein, shall be granted for life
or during good conduct, but if it be proven to the ministry that
the holder is guilty of negligence or has refused to comply with
any of the provisions of these regulations, his certificate may be
suspended, marked or revoked.





Certificate replacement



79

If an engineer proves to the satisfaction of the chief inspector
that he has lost his certificate, or that it has been destroyed,
he may obtain a duplicate of the original upon payment of the
applicable fee prescribed in the Railway Fees Regulation.


[am. B.C. Regs. 172/87, s. 4 (j); 2/99, App. 4, s. 4.]





Temporary certificate



80

Upon application in writing by the company, the chief inspector
may issue a temporary certificate to a sufficiently qualified
applicant to act as engineer on the locomotive crane specified,
such certificate to be good only for one month from date of issue.





Penalty for defective work



81

Any person who constructs a boiler, or any part of a boiler, or
who makes any repairs to same, such construction or repairs being
known to be defective, shall be liable to a penalty of not less
than $200 and not exceeding $500.





Penalty for alteration of safety valve



82

No person shall in any way alter the safety valve of a boiler, so
as to carry a greater pressure than that allowed by the inspector,
under a penalty of not less than $200 and not exceeding $500.





Safety valve testing



83

It shall be the duty of the engineer in charge to cause the safety
valve to blow off steam often enough to satisfy himself that the
valves are in good order, and it shall be his duty to report to
the inspector any failure of such valves to operate.





Revocation of certificate



84

In case no such report is made and a safety valve is found to have
been tampered with or put out of order, the certificate of the
engineer having such boiler in charge shall be revoked, and the
inspector shall have power to cancel the certificate of inspection
for such boiler until another engineer has been placed in charge.





Penalty for alteration of steam gauge



85

Any person who alters or conceals or otherwise tampers with the
steam gauge, so as to prevent the actual steam pressure of the
boiler from being seen and ascertained by any person, shall be
liable to a penalty of not less than $100 and not exceeding $500.





Penalty for operation of uninspected boiler



86

Any person operating a boiler, as well as the owner or lessee
thereof, in case the same is being operated with his consent,
without there being an unexpired certificate of inspection
thereof, shall be liable to a penalty of $5 a day for each and
every day that he shall operate such uncertified boiler, except in
such cases where the owner has made a request in writing to an
inspector to have such boiler examined, but for good and valid
reasons such inspection has not been made.





Penalty for operation of unsafe crane



87

It shall be the duty of any person operating or owning any
locomotive crane pronounced by the inspector as unsafe to cease to
use the same until such repairs as are indicated by the inspector
are made, and in case of failure to comply with the requirements
of the inspection the person owning or leasing, as well as the
person operating, any such locomotive crane shall be liable to a
penalty of not less than $100, and shall also be liable for any
damage to person or property resulting therefrom.




Fire Prevention Regulations




Spark arrest



88

Unless otherwise exempted by a special order of the ministry,
every company whose railway is under construction or being
operated shall cause all locomotive cranes and other steam
engines, portable or stationary, to be fitted and kept fitted in
good order with practical and efficient devices for arresting the
escape of sparks or live coals, as hereinafter set out.





Smokestacks â coal burning locomotive cranes



89

The smokestack of every coal burning locomotive crane used on the
railway shall have installed therein, so as to extend completely
over the aperture through which the smoke ascends, a double
crimped wire netting as follows:


(a)Â square mesh not larger than 2 2/3 by 2 2/3 per inch of
No. 10 B.W.G. wire. The condemning limits for the netting shall be
when the opening is 19/64 inch or the wire worn to 0.065 inch in
thickness;


(b)Â oblong mesh not larger than 3/16 inch in width and 3/4
inch in length of wire, Warp No. 10, Shute No. 9 B.W.G. The
condemning limit for the netting shall be when the opening is 7/32
inch in width and 25/32 inch in length, or when wires are worn to
0.065 inch in thickness;


(c)Â oblong mesh not larger than 3/16 inch in width and 1/2
inch in length of wire, Warp No. 10, Shute No. 9 B.W.G. The
condemning limit for the netting shall be when the opening is 7/32
inch in width and 17/32 inch in length, or when the wires are worn
to 0.065 inch in thickness;


(d)Â square mesh not larger than 3 by 3 per inch of No. 10
B.W.G. wire. The condemning limit for the netting shall be when
the opening is 15/64 inch, or when the wire is worn to 0.065 inch
in thickness;


(e)Â square mesh not larger than 3 by 3 per inch of No. 11
B.W.G. wire. The condemning limit for the netting shall be when
the opening is 15.5/64 inch, or when the wire is worn to 0.06 inch
in thickness;


(f)Â upon application from a company, tests or trials of fire
protective devices other than as specified in this section may be
made only on receipt of permission from the chief inspector.





Ashpans, etc.



90

(1)Â  In no case shall there be an opening in the ashpan body,
hoppers, slides or fittings thereof in excess of 1/8 inch in
width; and the condemning limit of openings on ashpan and hopper
doors when closed shall be 1/4 inch.


(2)Â  Draught openings under foundation ring in ashpans of
wide firebox type shall be protected by a coping or hinged door,
closed in at each end, and extending 2 1/2 inches above the level
of the bottom of the foundation ring; provided that where adequate
protection by coping or hinged doors extending above the level of
the bottom of the foundation ring cannot be applied, inside
deflectors extending 4 inches below the bottom of the foundation
ring shall be installed, or a combination of outside and inside
coverage of not less than 4 inches shall be used. Standard mesh
netting equal to that required in the smoke box may be used for
the outside coping or hinged door where solid plate cannot be
used.


(3)Â  Draught openings in the side, front or back of wide or
narrow type fireboxes, in which the hinged plate or coping is not
used in accordance with section 90 (1), shall be protected by
solid deflecting plates providing a total of not less than 2 1/2
inches coverage, such deflecting plates to be closed in at each
end. Standard mesh netting equal to that required in the smoke box
may be used for extra draught openings where solid deflecting
plates cannot be provided.


(4)Â  Draught openings of shallow ashpans shall be protected
by standard smokebox netting.


(5)Â  Openings in ends of ashpans through which grate rods
operate shall be protected against escape of ashes or fire; grate
rods shall be carried in sliding plates with clearance around rods
not to exceed 1/16 inch when new; the condemning limit shall be
1/8 inch; or openings must be protected against the escape of
ashes or fire by hoods or deflecting plates.


(6)Â  Ashpan doors and slides shall be securely closed by a
locking gear while the locomotive crane is in operation. Ashpan
dumping gear shall be such that ashpans can be dumped only by a
person standing on the ground. Air combustion tube openings and
cleanouts opening from cinder trap in front of brick wall or arch
shall be adequately protected against the escape of fire to the
roadway.


(7)Â  A device, with all necessary accessories, shall be
installed to provide an adequate supply of water to all hoppers
and ashpans. Sufficient water to dampen ashes and extinguish fire
falling from the grates must be supplied from April 1 to October
31, both inclusive, in each year, or during such additional period
as may be required in any particular territory by the chief
inspector.





Smokestacks â steam engines



91

All steam engines, portable or stationary, having exhaust in stack
and burning coal shall be equipped with a bonnet screen or double
crimped wire netting mesh device on top of the smoke stack, as may
be most practicable. All openings between the bonnet netting and
the stack must be fitted so as to leave no opening larger than the
mesh of the netting. The condemning limit of said netting shall be
as prescribed in section 89.





Oil burning cranes



92

On every locomotive crane burning oil as fuel the following
standards shall be observed:


(a)Â in such territory as may be designated from time to time
by the chief inspector, the smokestack of every locomotive crane
shall have installed thereon, so as to extend completely over the
aperture through which the smoke ascends, a double crimped wire
netting mesh, not less than 4 by 4 per inch, No. 12 B.W.G. The
condemning limit of openings shall be 10.5/64 inch;


(b)Â linings of firepan and firebox shall be maintained in
good order. Not less frequently than at each daily inspection, or
prior to starting each shift, where there are facilities, the
firebox shall be cleaned of any accumulation of fallen brick and
loose carbonaceous material;


(c)Â all joints in the firepan and between the firepan and
firebox sheets or foundation ring shall be maintained airtight;


(d)Â openings in firepan shall be protected in such manner as
to prevent the escape of such matter likely to cause fire;


(e)Â burner shall be maintained in proper alignment and
adjustment, clean and free from leakage;


(f)Â sand for sanding flues shall be free from inflammable
matter.





Fire protective appliances



93

All fire protective appliances on locomotive cranes and other
portable or stationary boilers shall at all times be maintained in
good order. No employee of the railway shall do, or in any way
cause, damage to the netting or other fire protective appliances
on any locomotive crane or other portable boiler in service.





Inspection by company



94

The company shall provide adequate inspection where its locomotive
cranes or other steam engines, portable or stationary, are housed
or repaired, and at other points where equipment is in service,
and cause


(a)Â an examination to be made at least once a week of all
fire protective appliances;


(b)Â in case any of the said fire protective appliances are
found to be defective, the said equipment shall be removed from
service, and shall not be returned to service until such defects
are remedied.





Disposal of live coals, etc.



95

Fire, live coals or hot ashes shall not be deposited upon the
tracks or right of way, unless they are extinguished immediately
thereafter, except in pits provided for the purpose. On no account
shall ashes nor clinkers from firebox of locomotive cranes be
thrown out on the right of way while running. Burning or
smouldering waste taken from the hot boxes shall be immediately
extinguished. Care should be taken in the handling of fusees and
to avoid throwing them where fire can be communicated.





Operation near forest or woodland



96

The following provisions shall apply in respect of every
locomotive, traction engine, logging engine, portable engine or
stationary engine used or operated during the close season in or
within 1/2 a mile from any forest or woodland:


(a)Â there shall be kept at or on every engine six 10 quart
buckets, 6 shovels, 3 axes and 3 mattocks, all of which shall be
painted red, kept in good repair, and used only in case of fire;
provided that in the case of a traction engine or portable engine,
while being used in a mobile capacity, it shall be sufficient
compliance with the provisions of this paragraph if one 10 quart
bucket, one shovel and either one axe or one mattock are so kept;


(b)Â in case the engine is operated by steam power, it shall
be equipped with a safe and efficient device for arresting sparks,
of a design approved in writing by the Ministry of Forests; and
there shall be kept available at the engine at all times a
sufficient supply of water for fire fighting purposes, and the
engine shall be equipped with a pump capable of forcing water to a
height of 50 feet above the pump and with not less than 200 feet
of hose of not less than one inch inside diameter, which pump and
hose shall always be kept ready for immediate use;


(c)Â in the case of an engine operated by steam power, other
than a locomotive, if the engine is under steam, and the relative
humidity of the atmosphere in the vicinity of the engine is below
50%, the surface of the ground surrounding the engine for a
distance of not less than 200 feet in all directions therefrom
shall be continuously kept wet by the application of water by
means of a hose or other appliance to be provided and kept for the
purpose.




Internal Combustion Locomotive Crane Regulations



Interpretation




Definitions





In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires:


"internal combustion locomotive crane"
means and includes the engine or engines, pipes and connections
and every part thereof, and all apparatus and things attached to
and connected therewith or used with reference thereto, and shall
include all internal combustion derrick equipment self-propelled
on rails;


"internal combustion locomotive crane engineer"
means any person having charge of or operating an internal
combustion locomotive.




Extent and Application of Regulations




Application



100

These regulations shall apply to all railways operating under the
jurisdiction of the government of British Columbia.





Company responsibility



101

Every railway company will be held responsible for the general
condition of all internal combustion locomotive cranes under its
control. The mechanical officer in charge at each point where
repairs are done will be held responsible for the inspection and
repair for all internal combustion locomotive cranes and their
appurtenances under his jurisdiction. He must know that all
defects disclosed by any inspection are properly repaired before
the locomotive crane is returned to service. The safe working
pressure of all pressure parts shall be fixed by the chief
inspector of the ministry after full consideration has been given
to design, workmanship, age and condition.





Portions of Boiler Code applicable



102

That portion of the regulations known as Part III of the British
Columbia Railway Department Boiler Code, adopted by order in
council under the
Railways Act
on January 21, 1947, shall govern the design, registration and
construction of all pressure parts used on internal combustion
locomotive cranes.




General Inspection Regulations




Inspection frequency



103

Every locomotive crane shall be inspected before being put into
service and at least every 12 months thereafter by an inspector of
the ministry. Inspectors shall have the right, at all reasonable
hours, to examine locomotive cranes and may refuse to grant a
certificate for any locomotive crane found defective according to
the provisions of these regulations. They may order out of service
any locomotive crane which for any cause they consider unfit and
dangerous to operate.





Reporting of defects



104

It is the duty of every locomotive crane engineer to inform the
inspector of any defects known or believed to exist in the
locomotive crane under his charge. The certificate of competency
of any locomotive crane engineer refusing or refraining from doing
so may be revoked by the inspector.




Approval




Approval for new crane



105

No company shall install or operate any new internal combustion
locomotive crane without first obtaining approval thereof from the
chief inspector. Every company shall submit with each application
for approval designs and specifications of said locomotive crane.


[am. B.C. Regs. 172/87, s. 4 (k); 2/99, App. 4, s. 5.]





Other approval



106

No company shall install or operate any internal combustion
locomotive crane without first applying to the chief inspector
for, and obtaining from him, his approval for such internal
combustion locomotive crane.





Requirements for approval



107

The chief inspector shall not grant his approval pursuant to
sections 105 and 106 unless there is compliance with the following
provisions:


(a)Â the locomotive crane must comply with the ministry's
standards in respect to safety appliances, couplers, air brakes,
headlights, footboards, sanding devices, whistle or horn, and
bell;


(b)Â the locomotive crane shall comply with the Internal
Combustion Locomotive Regulations made pursuant to the
Railway Act
as herein set forth;


(c)Â all pressure parts and appurtenances used on the
locomotive shall comply with Part III of the British Columbia
Railway Department Boiler Code;


(d)Â The position of the operator must be so arranged that he
can have a clear view of the tracks, and see signals;


(e)Â in addition to air brakes, every internal combustion
locomotive must have an efficient hand brake.




Certificates




Issuance and display of certificate



108

A certificate shall be issued by the inspector for every internal
combustion locomotive crane found, after inspection and testing,
to be in satisfactory working condition. Such certificate, showing
the date of last inspection, the horsepower and the weight on
drivers, shall be placed under glass in the cab of every such
locomotive crane.





Period of certificate



109

Certificates shall be issued covering a period of 12 months, but
should the inspector consider it advisable, he may issue a
certificate for a lesser period.





Suspension of certificate



110

Inspectors finding defects in any locomotive crane having an
unexpired certificate may suspend such certificate until repairs
are made or necessary fittings supplied.





Repealed



111-114

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 2/99, App. 4, s. 1.]




Inspection of Locomotive Cranes




Equipment and inspection



115

(1)Â  Every locomotive crane or other motive power used for
hauling or switching cars shall be equipped and maintained with a
bell and with a whistle.


(2)Â  Every locomotive crane shall be inspected after each
trip, or day's work, and any serious defects found shall be
repaired before the locomotive is returned to service.


(3)
Air brakes
â It must be known before each trip that the brakes on locomotive
crane are in safe and suitable condition for service; that the air
compressor or compressors are in condition to provide an ample
supply of air for the service in which the locomotive crane is
used; and that all other devices for controlling or regulating the
pressure are properly maintained.


(4)
Testing main reservoirs
â Every main reservoir, before being put into service and at least
once after 12 calendar months service, provided such service is
performed within 2 consecutive years, shall be subjected to
hydrostatic pressure not less than 25% above the maximum air
pressure. The entire surface of the reservoir shall be hammer
tested each time the locomotive is shopped for general repairs,
but not less frequently than once after 18 calendar months
service, provided such service is performed within 2 consecutive
years.


(5)
Draught gear
â Draught gear and attachments on locomotive cranes shall be
securely fastened and maintained in safe and suitable condition
for service.


(6)Â  All locomotive cranes shall comply with the safety
appliance standards of the ministry with respect to pilots,
footboards, handholds, couplers, uncoupling levers, running
boards, handrails and steps.




Locomotive Crane Lights




Lights



116

(1)Â  Each locomotive crane used between sunset and sunrise
shall have a headlight which will enable persons with normal
vision in the cab of the locomotive crane, under normal weather
conditions, to see a dark object the size of a man for a distance
of 300 feet or more ahead of the locomotive crane, and such
headlights must be maintained in good condition.


(2)Â  Cab lights â Each locomotive used between sunset and
sunrise shall have cab lamps which will provide sufficient
illumination for the air and other gauges to enable the enginemen
to make necessary and accurate readings from their usual and
proper positions in the cab. These lights shall be so located and
constructed that the light will shine only on those parts
requiring illumination. Locomotive cranes used in road service
shall have an additional lamp conveniently located to enable the
person operating the locomotive crane to easily and accurately
read train orders and timetables and so constructed that it may be
darkened or extinguished.




Locomotive Crane Regulations




Defective cranes



117

Locomotive cranes which are defective or do not comply with
specification as prescribed in the following list must not be
allowed to remain in service:


(a)
Air brakes
â Air brakes on locomotive cranes not in serviceable condition.


(b)
Wheels
â


(i)Â  Wheels shall be securely pressed on axles. Prick
punching or shimming the wheel fit will not be permitted. The
diameter of wheels on the same axle shall not vary more than 3/32
inch;


(ii)Â  Wheels used on standard gauge track will be out of
gauge if the inside gauge of flanges, measured on baseline, is
less than 53 inches or more than 53 3/8 inches;


(iii)Â  The distance back to back of flanges of wheels mounted
on the same axle shall not vary more than 1/4 inch.


(c)
Cast iron or cast steel wheels
â Cast iron or cast steel wheels with any of the following defects
shall not be continued in service:


(i)
Slid flat
â When the flat spot is 2 1/2 inches or over in length, or if
there are 2 or more adjoining spots each 2 inches or over in
length;


(ii)
Broken or chipped flange
â If the chip exceeds 1 1/2 inches in length and 1/2 inch in
width;


(iii)
Broken rim
â If the tread, measured from the flange at a point 5/8 inch above
the tread, is less than 3 3/4 inches in width;


(iv)
Shelled out
â Wheels with defective treads on account of cracks or shelled out
spots 2 1/2 inches or over, or so numerous as to endanger the
safety of the wheel;


(v)
Brake burn
â Wheels having defective tread on account of cracks or shelling
out due to heating;


(vi)Â  Seams 1/2 inch long or over, at a distance of 1/2 inch
or less from the throat of the flange, or seams 3 inches or more
in length, if such seams are within the limits of 3 3/4 inches
from the flange, measured at a point 5/8 inch from the tread;


(vii)
Worn flanges
â Wheels on axles with journals 5 by 9 inches or over with flanges
having flat vertical surfaces extending 7/8 inch or more from the
tread, or flanges one inch thick or less, gauged at a point 3/8
inch above tread. Wheels on axles with journals less than 5 by 9
inches with flanges having flat vertical surfaces extending one
inch or more from the tread, or flanges 15/16 inch thick or less,
gauged at a point 3/8 above the tread;


(viii)
Tread worn hollow
â If the tread is worn sufficiently hollow to render the flange or
rim liable to breakage;


(ix)
Burst
â If the wheel is cracked from the wheel fit outward;


(x)Â  Cracked tread, cracked plate, or one or more cracked
brackets;

(xi)Â  Wheels out of gauge;
(xii)Â  Wheels loose on axle.



Note: The determination of flat spots, worn flanges and broken
rims shall be made by an A.A.R. wheel defect gauge (Fig. 8).





(d)
Forged steel or steel tired wheels
â Forged steel or steel tired wheels with any of the following
defects shall not be continued in service:


(i)Â  Loose wheels; loose, broken or defective retaining rings
or tires; broken or cracked hubs, plates, spokes or bolts;


(ii)Â  Slid flat spot 2 1/2 inches or longer; or, if there are
2 or more adjoining spots, each 2 inches or longer;


(iii)Â  Defective tread on account of cracks or shelled out
spots 2 1/2 inches or longer, or so numerous as to endanger the
safety of the wheel;

(iv)Â  Broken flange;

(v)Â  Flange worn to 15/16 inch or less in thickness, gauged
at a point 3/8 inch above the tread, or having flat vertical
surface one inch or more from the tread; tread worn 5/16 inch;
flange more than 1 1/2 inches from tread to top of flange;

(vi)Â  Wheels out of gauge.

(e)
Springs
â Locomotive cranes with defective springs on any part of
locomotive crane which are unable to carry their respective
weights.





Ventilation and electrical apparatus



118

(1)Â  The exhaust gases from internal combustion engines shall
be piped to exhaust above the top of the locomotive crane and
shall be so arranged that exhaust fumes do not drift into the cab
so they be breathed by the operator or the operator's helper.


(2)Â  Cabs of internal combustion locomotive cranes shall be
properly ventilated. Precautions must be taken to see that no
exhaust or other obnoxious gases can enter or accumulate in the
cab.


(3)Â  Electrical apparatus must be properly installed and
insulated. All contactors, circuit breakers and switches must be
enclosed in approved panel boxes properly bonded and grounded.




Accidents and Their Investigation




Accident investigation



119

(1)Â  In case of a failure of any appurtenance taking place in
any locomotive crane or other power, for which the owner or lessee
thereof has not obtained a certificate of inspection, or if the
certificate of inspection has expired and any person be killed or
injured thereby, or any property be destroyed or damaged, the
owner or lessee of such locomotive crane or other power shall
prima facie be deemed guilty of negligence, and liable for any
injury occasioned by such failure, and the onus shall be on the
owner or lessee of such locomotive crane or other power to show
that all reasonable and proper precautions had been taken to
prevent such failure or accident.


(2)Â  In the case of an accident resulting from failure from
any cause of an internal combustion locomotive crane's power
appliances, or pressure appurtenances, resulting in serious injury
or death to one or more persons, the company owning or operating
such locomotive crane shall immediately transmit by wire to the
chief inspector at his office in Vancouver, B.C., report of such
accident, stating the nature of the accident, the place at which
it occurred and where the locomotive crane may be inspected. Such
wire shall immediately be confirmed by mail, giving a full
detailed report of such accident, stating, so far as may be known,
the causes and giving a complete list of the killed or injured.


(3)Â  On the occurrence of an accident to any locomotive crane
or other equipment, the engineer in charge shall report such
accident in writing to the chief inspector, or, in default, the
inspector may cancel his certificate.


(4)Â  The chief inspector may hold an investigation with
respect to any accident to any part of a locomotive crane or other
equipment to which these regulations apply, and with respect to
any injury caused to any person or property by the alleged
negligence or incompetence of an engineer holding a certificate;
and he may summon witnesses and compel their attendance before him
by the same process as courts of justice, and may administer oaths
and examine witnesses touching the cause of such accident, and he
shall forthwith report in writing thereon to the minister.


(5)Â  An appeal shall lie from any ruling or decision of an
inspector to the chief inspector, and from him to the minister,
whose decision shall be final.


(6)Â  In any appeal the minister, if he thinks fit, may summon
to his assistance any expert engineer, who shall attend and assist
accordingly.


(7)Â  Any charge of neglect of duty or other complaint against
an inspector shall be made in writing to the minister, stating the
specific charge or charges.


(8)Â  Every railway company violating any of the provisions of
these regulations shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding $300
for each and every such violation.




Internal Combustion Locomotive Crane Engineers' Certificates of
Competency




Certificate requirement



120

Except as provided under section 127 of this Part, no person shall
be employed as engineer and no person shall act as engineer of any
internal combustion locomotive crane operating under these
regulations, unless the person so employed or acting holds a
certificate of competency as an internal combustion locomotive
crane engineer, or a temporary certificate, granted by the
minister; provided, however, that in case of illness or other
unavoidable cause the engineer in charge is absent from duty,
without fault or collusion of the owners or of any person
interested, and an engineer holding such certificate is not
available, then such deficiency may be filled temporarily until an
engineer holding such certificate can be obtained, and the chief
inspector shall be immediately notified of the temporary change by
the owner of the locomotive crane and by the person acting
temporarily as engineer.





Application for examination



121

Candidates for examination must fill up a form of application
which can be obtained from the chief inspector, and when properly
filled in should be returned to him, together with the applicable
fee prescribed in the Railway Fees Regulation.


[am. B.C. Regs. 172/87, s. 4 (i); 2/99, App. 4, s. 3.]





Testimonials required



122

All candidates must produce testimonials as to service, such
testimonials to be signed by their employers. Candidates must have
at least 12 months service as engineers on steam or internal
combustion locomotive cranes, or 12 months as engineer or
engineer's helper on internal combustion locomotives, or be the
holder of one of the following certificates granted by the
minister: locomotive engineer, internal combustion locomotive
engineer, locomotive crane engineer, Class A or B, or the holder
of a permit to operate power cars, and must enclose with their
application for examination a certificate from some qualified
physician certifying as to the condition of their eyesight and
hearing, as required by the Visual Acuity, Colour Perception and
Hearing of Railway Employees Regulations (B.C. Reg. 457/59).





Railway company examinations



123

Railway companies having mechanical and operating rules approved
by the Ministry of Transportation and Highways must examine their
employees as to general mechanical ability and knowledge of such
rules before giving them employment or promotion on internal
combustion locomotive cranes. They must also notify the chief
inspector at least one month before such examinations take place,
in order that an inspector appointed by the ministry may be in
attendance.





Term of certificate



124

Every certificate, unless stated therein, shall be granted for
life or during good conduct, but if it be proven to the ministry
that the holder is guilty of negligence or has refused to comply
with any of the provisions of these regulations, his certificate
may be suspended, marked or revoked.





Certificate replacement



125

If an engineer proves to the satisfaction of the chief inspector
that he has lost his certificate, or that it has been destroyed,
he may obtain a duplicate of the original upon payment of the
applicable fee prescribed in the Railway Fees Regulation.


[am. B.C. Regs. 172/87, s. 4 (j); 2/99, App. 4, s. 4.]





Temporary certificate



126

Upon application in writing by the company, the chief inspector
may issue a temporary certificate to a sufficiently qualified
applicant to act as engineer on the locomotive crane specified,
such certificate to be good only for one month from date of issue.





Permit holders



127

(1)Â  Holders of "Permits to Operate Power Cars" granted by
the minister may be employed and may act as engineers on internal
combustion locomotive cranes, the rated horsepower of which does
not exceed 150, or where the weight on the drivers does not exceed
30 000 pounds; provided that the chief inspector is satisfied that
the holder of such permit is capable of fulfilling the duties of
engineer on a locomotive crane of that horsepower and weight.


(2)Â  Holders of locomotive or internal combustion locomotive
engineer's certificate of competency or holders of locomotive
crane engineer's certificate of competency, Class A, may be
employed and may act as engineers on any internal combustion
locomotive crane.




Some Obligations and Penalties




Penalty for defective work



128

Any person who constructs an unfired pressure vessel, or any part
thereof, or who makes any repairs to same, such construction or
repairs being known to be defective, shall be liable to a penalty
of not less than $100 and not exceeding $300.





Penalty for operation of uninspected crane



129

Any person operating an internal combustion locomotive crane, or
lessee thereof, in case the same is being operated with his
consent, without there being an unexpired certificate of
inspection thereof, shall be liable to a penalty of $5 a day for
each and every day that he shall operate such uncertificated
locomotive crane, except in such cases where the owner has made a
request in writing to an inspector to have such crane examined,
but for good and valid reasons such inspection has not been made.





Penalty for operation of unsafe crane



130

It shall be the duty of any person operating or owning any
internal combustion locomotive crane pronounced by the inspector
as unsafe to cease to use the same until such repairs as are
indicated by the inspector are made, and in case of failure to
comply with the requirements of the inspector, the person owning
or leasing, as well as the person operating, any such internal
combustion locomotive crane shall be liable to a penalty of not
less than $100, and shall also be liable for any damage to person
or property resulting therefrom.




Fire Prevention Regulations




Spark arrest



131

Unless otherwise exempted by a special order of the ministry,
every company whose railway is under construction or being
operated shall cause all internal combustion locomotive cranes to
be fitted and kept fitted in good order with practical and
efficient devices for arresting the escape of sparks from exhaust
stacks.





Fire extinguishers



132

Every internal combustion locomotive crane shall be equipped with
at least one fire extinguisher; such fire extinguisher shall be of
the type not to cause shorts nor damage to the electrical
apparatus, it shall bear a card showing its last filling, and be
placed in a conspicuous place in the cab within easy reach of the
engineer.




Figures 8-14


Fig. 8. Wheel defect, worn coupler limit, worn journal collar, and
journal fillet gauge.





Fig. 9. Method of gauging flat spots




Fig. 10. Method of gauging thin flanges




Fig. 11. Method of gauging vertical flanges.




Fig. 12. Method of gauging broken rims




Fig. 13. Method of gauging broken rims.




Fig. 14. Method of gauging worn coupler.








1.


Regulation originally made by authority of minister, by
certificate, subject to approval of the Lieutenant Governor in
Council (see R.S.B.C. 1948-285-7), since July 8, 1976,
regulation made by authority of minister only.





[Provisions of the
Railway Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 395, relevant to the enactment of these
regulations: section 271]





