




"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Local Government Act


Corporation of the City of Penticton Regulation

B.C. Reg. 54/67





Note: This regulation has been placed in the Regulations Point in
Time collection. This regulation is not repealed.





B.C. Reg. 54/67

O.C. 741/67






Local Government Act


Corporation of the City of Penticton Regulation




Imposition of charge



1

A charge at the rate of $1 200 per acre is hereby imposed on each
and every parcel of land for the area within the City of Penticton
benefiting from the irrigation redevelopment under the provisions
of ARDA.





Diminution of charge



2

The charge as aforesaid shall be diminished by deducting 5% of the
original charge each year commencing on this date of approval and
continuing for 20 consecutive years.





If lands are sold



3

If any lands are sold prior to the expiration of the charge, the
amount remaining unpaid at the time of the sale shall be paid by
the vendor to the City of Penticton if the land use changes from
that for which the land was used at this date.





Payment to the Province



4

Two thirds of the amount or amounts received by the city of
Penticton under section 3 shall be paid to the Minister of
Finance, Province of British Columbia, within 30 days of receipt
thereof.





Cancellation of notice of charge



5

Where the charge has been paid in full or ceased to exist by
effluxion of time as to specified land, the Registrar of Titles,
upon receipt of a certificate to that effect under the hand of the
officials referred to in section 721 (3) of the Act, shall cancel
the notice of the charge filed against the title to the land so
specified.

[en. B.C. Reg. 125/69.]




Written approval of inspector



6

Where the written approval referred to in section 721 (3) (b)

1

of the Act has been given in respect to a specific transaction,
the Registrar of Titles may give effect thereto, subject to the
charge created by this Act.

[en. B.C. Reg. 125/69.]





1.


R.S.B.C. 1996-323-721 (3) (b), repealed by 2000-7-64.





[Provisions of the
Local Government Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 323, relevant to the enactment of this
regulation: section 721]





