




"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Greenhouse Gas Reduction Targets Act

Emission Offsets Regulation
B.C. Reg. 393/2008






NOTE:

Links below go to regulation content as it was prior to the
changes made on the effective date. (PIT covers changes made
from September 19, 2009 to "current to" date of the
regulation.)




SECTION
EFFECTIVE DATE


Regulation

January 1, 2016



Section 1

July 1, 2010





December 6, 2010





July 1, 2014



Section 4

December 6, 2010



Section 6

December 6, 2010



Section 8

July 1, 2014



Section 9

December 6, 2010





July 1, 2014



Section 10

July 1, 2010



Section 10.1

December 6, 2010





July 1, 2014



Section 11

July 1, 2010









Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 250/2015, effective January 1,
2016.





B.C. Reg. 393/2008

O.C. 905/2008


Deposited December 9, 2008






Greenhouse Gas Reduction Targets Act


Emission Offsets Regulation


[includes amendments up to B.C. Reg. 124/2014, July 1, 2014]






Definitions and interpretation




1

(1)


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the
Greenhouse Gas Reduction Targets Act
;



"baseline emissions"

, in relation to a project, means an estimate of greenhouse gas
emissions from all selected sources and reservoirs, assuming the
project is not carried out;



"baseline removals"

, in relation to a project, means an estimate of removals by all
selected sinks and reservoirs, assuming the project is not carried
out;



"baseline scenario"

, in relation to a project, means one or more hypotheses that




(a)

are made, in part, on the assumption that the project is not
carried out,




(b)

are about activities that will have an effect on greenhouse gas
emissions or removals, and




(c)

enable the estimation of baseline emissions and baseline removals;



"carbon dioxide equivalent"

has the same meaning as in the Carbon Neutral Government
Regulation;



"conservative"

, in relation to a greenhouse gas reduction, means a greenhouse
gas reduction that is unlikely to have been overestimated;



"controlled source, sink or reservoir"

, in relation to a proponent, means a greenhouse gas emissions
source, sink or reservoir that is controlled, directly or
indirectly, by the proponent by legal, financial or any other
means;


"director"
means the government employee designated in writing by the
minister as director for the purposes of this regulation;



"emissions reduction"

means baseline emissions minus project emissions;



"greenhouse gas reduction"

means




(a)

a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, or




(b)

an enhancement of greenhouse gas removals;


"ISO"
means the International Organization for Standardization;



"ownership"

, in relation to a greenhouse gas reduction, includes an
established right to claim legal or commercial benefits arising
from the achievement of the reduction;


"project"
means a course of action undertaken to achieve a greenhouse gas
reduction;



"project emissions"

means an estimate of greenhouse gas emissions from all selected
sources and reservoirs;



"project period"

means the period during which a proponent carries out a project;



"project plan"

, in relation to a project, means a plan prepared in accordance
with section 3 or 7, whichever applies to the project;



"project reduction"

means the total of the emissions reduction and the removals
enhancement, less any discounts applied in accordance with a
risk-mitigation and contingency plan referred to in section 3 (2)
(r);



"project removals"

means an estimate of removals by all selected sinks and
reservoirs;



"project report"

means a report prepared in accordance with section 5 or 7,
whichever applies to the project;



"project start date"

means the date on which the project begins active operation;



"proponent"

means a person who proposes either to carry out or to engage
another person to carry out a project to generate emission offsets
for the purposes of the Act, and includes a person who has carried
out a project;


"removals"
means the reduction of atmospheric concentrations of greenhouse
gases through




(a)

the removal of greenhouse gases from the atmosphere, and




(b)

the storage or sequestration of carbon or greenhouse gases in a
reservoir;



"removals enhancement"

means baseline removals minus project removals;


"reversal"
means loss to the atmosphere of an amount of carbon or greenhouse
gases stored or sequestered in reservoirs;


"selected"
, in relation to a source, sink or reservoir, means a source, sink
or reservoir to be considered in the calculation or estimation of
a project reduction;



"validation body"

, in respect of a project plan, means




(a)

a person accredited to conduct validations of project plans within
the sectoral scope of the project




(i)

by a member of the International Accreditation Forum,




(ii)

in accordance with ISO 14065, and




(iii)

through a program developed under ISO 17011, or




(b)

subject to section 10.1, a person enrolled in a program for
accreditation, as described in paragraph (a), to conduct
validations of project plans within the sectoral scope of the
project, but only for one year after the date on which the person
or an authorized individual on behalf of the person first signs a
statement of assurance under section 4 (5) in respect of a project
within that sectoral scope;



"validation period"

means the period beginning on the project start date and ending on
the date the validation expires;



"validator"

means an individual employed or contracted by a validation body
for the purpose of conducting a validation of a project plan;



"verification body"

, in respect of a project report, means




(a)

a person accredited to conduct verifications of project reports
within the sectoral scope of the project




(i)

by a member of the International Accreditation Forum,




(ii)

in accordance with ISO 14065, and




(iii)

through a program developed under ISO 17011, or




(b)

subject to section 10.1, a person enrolled in a program for
accreditation, as described in paragraph (a), to conduct
verifications of project reports within the sectoral scope of the
project, but only for one year after the date on which the person
or an authorized individual on behalf of the person first signs a
statement of assurance under section 6 (5) in respect of a project
within that sectoral scope;


"verifier"
means a person employed or contracted by a verification body for
the purpose of conducting a verification of a project report.




(2)

In this regulation, an expression formed by juxtaposing ISO and a
number refers to a standard made by the ISO, as amended from time
to time, and named in part by that number.


[am. B.C. Regs. 393/2008, s. 11 (a); 347/2010, s. 1; 124/2014,
App. 2, s. 1.]






How measurements of greenhouse gas reductions and removals are to
be expressed




2


For the purposes of the Act, reductions and removals must be
expressed in tonnes of each specific greenhouse gas measured in
carbon dioxide equivalent.






Project plans




3

(1)


A proponent must




(a)

prepare a project plan, and




(b)

submit the project plan to a validation body for review under
section 4.




(2)

Subject to section 7, a project plan must contain all of the
following:




(a)

the title of the project and a statement of the project's purposes
and objectives;




(b)

the name and address of the proponent and of any other person
responsible for carrying out the project;




(c)

a description of the roles and responsibilities of persons
responsible for carrying out the project;




(d)

contact information for persons who can provide information
regarding any government programs providing financial or other
assistance for the carrying out of the project;




(e)

a technical description of the project and an explanation of how
carrying out the project will achieve a greenhouse gas reduction;




(f)

project identification information, including geographical
information about the location where the project will be carried
out and any other information allowing for the unique
identification of the project;




(g)

a chronological plan for the project, including the anticipated or
actual project start date;




(h)

identification of protocols the proponent intends to comply with
to quantify the project reduction and a justification for
selecting the protocols and, if applicable, adjusting the
protocols;




(i)

a description of the project's baseline scenario, including




(i)

a description of potential baseline scenarios considered when
selecting the project's baseline scenario,




(ii)

a description of the assumptions on which the baseline scenario is
based and a justification of the reasonableness of those
assumptions, and




(iii)

a statement of the period of time for which the baseline scenario
applies;




(j)

an assertion by the proponent that the baseline scenario will
result in a conservative estimate of the greenhouse gas reduction
to be achieved by the project, considering




(i)

existing or proposed regulatory requirements relevant to any
aspect of the baseline scenario,




(ii)

provincial or federal incentives relevant to any aspect of the
baseline scenario, including tax incentives or grants that may be
available,




(iii)

the financial implications of carrying out a course of action
referred to in the baseline scenario, and




(iv)

any other factor relevant to justify the claim that the baseline
scenario is reasonably likely to occur if the project is not
carried out;




(k)

an assertion by the proponent that there are financial,
technological or other obstacles to carrying out the project that
are overcome or partially overcome by the incentive of having a
greenhouse gas reduction recognized as an emission offset under
the Act, and a justification for the assertion;




(l)

an assertion by the proponent that the project start date is no
earlier than November 29, 2007;




(m)

identification of the project's selected sources, sinks and
reservoirs and an explanation of why those sources, sinks and
reservoirs were selected;




(n)

for each selected source, sink or reservoir,




(i)

a description of the methods to be used




(A)

to make estimates or measurements for the purposes of calculating
emissions reduction and removals enhancement,




(B)

to undertake any relevant data collection and monitoring,
including a description of quality assurance and quality control
provisions to be complied with,




(ii)

a description of the frequencies by which measurement and
monitoring will be undertaken, and




(iii)

a justification of the methods described in subparagraph (i) and
the frequencies described in subparagraph (ii);




(o)

an assertion by the proponent that




(i)

the proponent's selected sources, sinks and reservoirs, and




(ii)

the methods referred to in paragraph (n) (i),


will ensure that the total of the emission reduction and the
removals enhancement is an accurate and a conservative estimation
of the greenhouse gas reduction, with respect to which the
proponent has ownership, that is to be achieved during the
validation period from controlled sources, sinks or reservoirs in
British Columbia, taking into account increases in emissions or
reductions in removals, as compared to the baseline scenario, from
sources, sinks or reservoirs other than controlled sources, sinks
or reservoirs;




(p)

the estimated project reduction for each year of the project
during the validation period, a description of the formulae used
in the estimation and the calculations used in making the
estimation;




(q)

an assertion by the proponent that the proponent, with respect to
the greenhouse gas reduction to be achieved by carrying out the
project, has a superior claim of ownership of the reduction to
that of any other person;




(r)

if the project involves




(i)

the capture and storage or capture and sequestration of a
greenhouse gas emissions from a source,




(ii)

removals by controlled sinks, or




(iii)

avoided emissions from controlled reservoirs,


a risk-mitigation and contingency plan for the purpose of ensuring
that the atmospheric effect of a greenhouse gas reduction achieved
by the project will endure for a period




(iv)

comparable to the period that the atmospheric effect of a
greenhouse gas reduction achieved by carrying out projects not of
a type referred to in subparagraph (i), (ii) or (iii) will endure,
or




(v)

of at least 100 years;




(s)

if paragraph (r) applies to the project, an assertion by the
proponent that the plan referred to in paragraph (r) is reasonably
likely to achieve the purpose referred to in that paragraph;




(t)

the results of an assessment of the uncertainty associated with
the estimation of the greenhouse gas reduction to be achieved by
carrying out the project, and, if no guideline issued under
section 7 (4) for the purposes of this paragraph applies to the
project, a description of the procedures used to conduct the
assessment;




(u)

a description of any analysis undertaken to determine the
environmental impact of carrying out the project;




(v)

a description of any consultations undertaken respecting the
project and a summary of the results of the consultations;




(w)

an assertion by the proponent that the project plan meets the
requirements of this regulation.




(3)

A risk-mitigation and contingency plan referred to in subsection
(2) (r)




(a)

must be for the project period and for a reasonable period of time
after that, and




(b)

may include any of the following:




(i)

a plan for the maintenance and long-term protection of controlled
sinks and reservoirs and for keeping records related to that
maintenance and protection;




(ii)

a description of legal means taken for the long-term protection of
selected sinks and reservoirs;




(iii)

to identify any reversal, a plan for monitoring selected sinks and
reservoirs and for keeping records relating to the carrying out of
the monitoring;




(iv)

a description of any contractual or other arrangements for
securities, contingency funds, or set-asides to address the risk
of a reversal;




(v)

a description of any discounts to be applied in the calculation of
project reductions;




(vi)

a description of any arrangements made to replace emission offsets
in the event of a reversal.






Validation of project plan




4

(1)


Subject to subsections (2) to (4), a validation body may validate
a submitted project plan if the validation body is satisfied that
the project plan, including the assertions in the project plan, is
fair and reasonable.




(2)

A validation body may not make a validation under subsection (1)
if the validation body considers that the project plan is subject
to material errors, omissions or misrepresentations.




(3)

For the purposes of subsection (2), a project plan is subject to
material errors, omissions or misrepresentations if




(a)

the aggregate or individual effect of an error, omission or
misrepresentation related to the project plan make it probable
that the judgment of a reasonable person judging an assertion
required to be in the project plan would have been changed or
influenced by the error, omission or misrepresentation, or




(b)

the errors, omissions or misrepresentations are material as
determined in accordance with a guideline, if any, issued by the
director under section 7 (4).




(4)

A validation body may only validate a project plan in a manner
consistent with ISO 14064-3.




(5)

If a validation body makes a validation under subsection (1), the
validation body or an individual authorized by the validation body
must sign a statement of assurance that includes all of the
following:




(a)

name, address and other contact information for the validation
body;




(b)

date of the statement of assurance;




(c)

a statement that the validation is made in a manner consistent
with ISO 14064-3 and in accordance with this regulation;




(d)

a description of the work the validation body performed to make
the validation, including a description of




(i)

the techniques and processes used to test the greenhouse gas
information and associated assertions, and




(ii)

any additional information, not in the project plan, directly or
indirectly relied on by the validation body in the course of
making the validation;




(e)

a statement that the project plan, including the assertions in the
project plan, is fair and reasonable;




(f)

an assertion that the individual signing the statement of
assurance is the validation body or is authorized to sign the
statement of assurance on behalf of the validation body.




(6)

If a validation body makes a validation under subsection (1), the
validation body or an individual authorized by the validation body
must sign a cover letter, to be attached to the statement of
assurance referred to in subsection (5), that includes a
description of all of the following:




(a)

the names, education, experience, accreditation, professional
designation and knowledge of the individuals carrying out the
validation, including areas of competency relevant to the project;




(b)

in the case of a validation body that is accredited in the
sectoral scope of the project, the accreditation program under
which the validation body is accredited and the sectoral scopes to
which that accreditation relates;




(b.1)

in the case of a validation body that is not accredited in the
sectoral scope of the project,




(i)

how the education, experience, accreditation, professional
designation and knowledge of the individuals described under
paragraph (a) enable the validation body to perform work in that
sectoral scope, and




(ii)

the accreditation program in which the validation body is
enrolled, the sectoral scopes to which the accreditation program
relates and the date the verification body or an authorized
individual on behalf of the validation body first signed a
statement of assurance under subsection (5) in respect of a
project within that sectoral scope;




(c)

the procedures or policies complied with by the validation body
and the individuals referred to in paragraph (a) to ensure their
independence and the lack of any conflicts of interest;




(d)

a description of the quality assurance and quality control, record
keeping and data management procedures used by the validation
body.




(7)

Subject to subsection (8), a validation made under subsection (1)
expires 10 years after the date of the statement of assurance
referred to in subsection (5).




(8)

The director may order that the validation period for a project or
any class of projects expires on a date or after a period of time
specified in the order.




(9)

An order made under subsection (8) does not apply to a project for
which a project plan was validated under subsection (1) before the
order was made.




(10)

A signed statement of assurance for a project, including the
attached cover letter referred to in subsection (6), is to be
considered a part of the project's project plan for the purposes
of sections 5 (2) (b) and 9.

[am. B.C. Reg. 347/2010, s. 2.]





Project reports




5

(1)


A proponent must




(a)

prepare a project report,




(b)

submit the project report and a copy of the project's validated
project plan to a verification body for review.




(2)

Subject to section 7, a project report must contain all of the
following:




(a)

an assertion of the project start date;




(b)

an assertion by the proponent that the project's project plan was
validated in accordance with this regulation;




(c)

an assertion by the proponent that the period covered by the
report is within the validation period and within the period
referred to in section 3 (2) (i) (iii);




(d)

an assertion by the proponent that the project was carried out as
described in the project plan, except as described in the project
report;




(e)

an assertion of the project reduction, emissions reduction and
removals enhancement;




(f)

calculations supporting the assertions referred to in paragraph
(e), including calculations for each selected source, sink or
reservoir;




(g)

an assertion by the proponent that the proponent, with respect to
the greenhouse gas reduction to be recognized as emission offsets
for the purposes of the Act, has a superior claim of ownership of
that reduction to that of any other person;




(h)

evidence to support the assertion referred to in paragraph (g);




(i)

an assertion that the project report complies with this
regulation.






Verification of project reports




6

(1)


Subject to subsections (2) to (4), a verification body may verify
a submitted project report if the verification body is satisfied
that




(a)

the assertions in the project report are materially correct and
are a fair and reasonable representation of the project's
greenhouse gas reduction, and




(b)

there have been no material changes to how the project was carried
out compared to the description of the project in the validated
project plan, taking into account any guidelines issued by the
director under section 7 (4) for the purposes of this subsection.




(2)

A verification body may not make a verification under subsection
(1) if the verification body considers the project report is
subject to material errors, omissions or misrepresentations.




(3)

For the purposes of subsection (2), a project report is subject to
material errors, omissions or misrepresentations if




(a)

the individual or aggregate effect of an error, omission or
misrepresentation related to the project report make it probable
that the judgment of a reasonable person judging an assertion
required to be in the project report would have been changed or
influenced by the error, omission or misrepresentation,




(b)

the individual or aggregate effect of an error, omission or
misrepresentation related to the project report could have
resulted in an overestimation of project reductions by more than
5%, or




(c)

the errors, omissions or misrepresentations are material as
determined in accordance with a guideline, if any, issued by the
director under section 7 (4).




(4)

A verification body may only make a verification under subsection
(1) in a manner consistent with ISO 14064-3.




(4.1)

A verification body may not make a verification under subsection
(1) in respect of a project report if the verification body acted
as the validation body for the project plan in respect of the same
project.




(5)

If a verification body makes a verification under subsection (1),
the verification body or an individual authorized by the
verification body must sign a statement of assurance that includes
all of the following:




(a)

name, address and other contact information for the verification
body;




(b)

date of the statement of assurance;




(c)

a statement that the verification is made in a manner consistent
with ISO 14064-3 and in accordance with this regulation;




(d)

identification of the project's asserted project reduction for the
period covered by the project report against which the
verification testing was conducted;




(e)

a description of the work the verification body performed to make
the verification, including a description of




(i)

the techniques and processes used to test the greenhouse gas
information and associated project reduction assertion, and




(ii)

any additional information, not in the project report, directly of
indirectly relied on by the verification body in the course of
making the verification;




(f)

a statement that the assertions in the project report are
materially correct and are a fair representation of the project's
greenhouse gas reduction;




(g)

an assertion that the individual signing the statement of
assurance is the verification body or is authorized to sign the
statement of assurance on behalf of the verification body.




(6)

If a verification body makes a verification under subsection (1),
the verification body or an individual authorized by the
verification body must sign a cover letter, to be attached to the
statement of assurance referred to in subsection (5), that
includes a description of all of the following:




(a)

the names, education, experience, accreditation, professional
designation and knowledge of the individuals carrying out the
verification, including areas of competency relevant to the
project;




(b)

in the case of a verification body that is accredited in the
sectoral scope of the project, the accreditation program under
which the verification body is accredited and the sectoral scopes
to which that accreditation relates;




(b.1)

in the case of a verification body that is not accredited in the
sectoral scope of the project,




(i)

how the education, experience, accreditation, professional
designation and knowledge of the individuals described under
paragraph (a) enable the verification body to perform work in that
sectoral scope, and




(ii)

the accreditation program in which the verification body is
enrolled, the sectoral scopes to which the accreditation program
relates and the date the verification body or an authorized
individual on behalf of the verification body first signed a
statement of assurance under subsection (5) in respect of a
project within that sectoral scope;




(c)

the procedures or policies complied with by the verification body
and the individuals referred to in paragraph (a) to ensure their
independence and the lack of any conflicts of interest;




(d)

a description of the quality assurance and quality control, record
keeping and data management procedures used by the verification
body.




(7)

A signed statement of assurance for a project, including the
attached cover letter referred to in subsection (6), is to be
considered part of the project's project report for the purposes
of section 9.

[am. B.C. Reg. 347/2010, s. 3.]





Protocols and guidelines




7

(1)


The director may establish or designate a protocol for any aspect
of the carrying out of a project in a class of projects,
including, without limitation, a protocol in relation to any of
the following:




(a)

the selection of sources, sinks or reservoirs;




(b)

greenhouse gas reduction from sources, sinks or reservoirs other
than controlled sources, sinks or reservoirs;




(c)

baseline scenarios;




(d)

quantification of greenhouse gas reductions;




(e)

data management;




(f)

monitoring greenhouse gas sources, sinks and reservoirs;




(g)

evidence of ownership.




(2)

In designating a protocol for the purposes of subsection (1), the
director may




(a)

designate the protocol as it is amended from time to time, and




(b)

make any amendments to the protocol that the director considers
necessary.




(3)

Subject to subsections (5) to (7), if the director establishes or
designates a protocol under subsection (1) for a class of
projects, a proponent of a project within that class must




(a)

comply with the protocol despite anything in section 3 or 5, and




(b)

comply with section 3 and 5 to the extent that it is not
inconsistent with the protocol.




(4)

The director may issue a guideline for the purposes of section 3
(2) (t), 4 (3) (b) or 6 (1) (b) or (3) (c), and a person to whom
section 3 (2) (t) applies or who is exercising a power referred to
in section 4 (3) (b) or 6 (1) (b) or (3) (c) must comply with the
applicable guideline.




(5)

The director must provide public notice, in any form the director
considers appropriate, of a protocol established or designated
under subsection (1) or a guideline issued under subsection (4),
and the protocol or the guideline comes into effect 3 months after
the date the notice was first given.




(6)

A protocol established or designated under subsection (1) or a
guideline issued under subsection (4) does not apply to a project
for which a project plan was validated before the protocol or
guideline comes into effect.




(7)

If the director has provided public notice under subsection (5)
with respect to a protocol, but the protocol is not yet in force,




(a)

a proponent may comply with the protocol as though it is in force,
and




(b)

subsection (3) applies with respect to the proponent's project as
though the protocol is in force.






Recognition of emission offsets




8


A greenhouse gas reduction is recognized as an equivalent amount
of emission offsets for the purposes of the Act if




(a)

the greenhouse gas reduction is equal to the project reduction in
a project report verified in accordance with this regulation,




(b)

the proponent of the project has transferred any title the
proponent has in the greenhouse gas reduction to the government,
and




(c)

the greenhouse gas reduction has not previously been recognized as
an emission offset under the Act or another emission-offset
recognition scheme or for the purposes of another voluntary or
mandatory greenhouse gas reduction program.

[am. B.C. Reg. 124/2014, App. 2, s. 2.]





Records




9

(1)


A proponent must retain, in both paper and electronic form, its
project plan and project report for not less than 10 years after
the date of either its validation or verification, whichever is
applicable.




(2)

A proponent, on the request of the director, must provide to the
director a copy of the proponent's




(a)

project plan,




(b)

project report, or




(c)

records referred to in section 3 (3) (b) (i) or (iii)


within 60 days of the date of the request.




(3)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 124/2014, App. 2, s. 3.]


[am. B.C. Regs. 347/2010, s. 4; 124/2014, App. 2, s. 3.]






Repealed




10


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 393/2008, s. 11 (b).]






Determination respecting unaccredited validation or verification
body




10.1

(1)


The director may determine in respect of a validation body or
verification body described in paragraph (b) of the definitions of
those terms in section 1 (1)




(a)

that the validation body or verification body is not, or its
validators or verifiers are not, qualified to perform, under this
regulation, the functions of a validation body or verification
body in respect of a sectoral scope, or




(b)

that the quality of work performed by the validation body or
verification body, or its validators or verifiers, is inadequate
for the purposes of this regulation in respect of a sectoral
scope.




(2)

If the director makes a determination under subsection (1) in
respect of a validation body or a verification body, or the
validators or verifiers of the validation body or verification
body,




(a)

on and after the date of the notice under subsection (6), and




(b)

until the validation body or verification body is accredited as
described in paragraph (a) of the definitions of those terms in
section 1 (1) in respect of the sectoral scope to which the
determination relates,


the validation body or verification body is not qualified to
perform the functions of a validation body or verification body
under this regulation in respect of projects within that sectoral
scope.




(3)

In a determination under subsection (1) or by amendment to a
determination under that subsection, the director may specify
validations or verifications made by the validation body or
verification body that, subject to subsection (5), are
unacceptable for the purposes of this regulation.




(4)

A determination under subsection (1) does not affect a validation
or verification completed by the validation body or verification
body before the date of the notice under subsection (6), except a
validation or verification specified under subsection (3).




(5)

A determination under subsection (1) does not affect a
verification completed by the verification body if the
verification is respecting greenhouse gas reductions the title for
which is or was held by the government.




(6)

The director must serve notice of a determination under subsection
(1) and of an amendment under subsection (3) on




(a)

the validation body or verification body to which the
determination or amendment relates, and




(b)

the proponent of any project in respect of which the project plan
or project report is specified under subsection (3).




(c)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 124/2014, App. 2, s. 4 (c).]




(7)

A notice under subsection (6) may be served




(a)

personally, or




(b)

by registered mail sent to the last known address of the person.


[en. B.C. Reg. 347/2010, s. 5; am. B.C. Reg. 124/2014, App. 2, ss.
2 and 4.]






Spent




11


Spent.






Transition




12


If a public sector organization has an agreement in place with the
Pacific Carbon Trust for application on behalf of the public
sector organization of a greenhouse gas reduction to be verified
in accordance with section 6 by December 31, 2012, the proposed
greenhouse gas reduction is recognized as an emission offset for
the purposes of offsetting the public sector organization's PSO
greenhouse gas emissions for the 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011
calendar years to the extent that




(a)

the Pacific Carbon Trust has in place contracts with one or more
proponents to deliver emission offsets from identified projects,
and




(b)

the identified projects have validated project plans.



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Greenhouse Gas Reduction Targets Act
, S.B.C. 2007, c. 42, section 12]





Section 1 (1) definition of "qualified professional" BEFORE repealed
by BC Reg 393/2008, section 11 (a) effective July 1, 2010.


"qualified professional"
, in relation to a duty or function under this regulation, means an
individual who


(a) is registered in Canada with a professional organization,
is acting under that organization's code of ethics, and is subject
to disciplinary action by that organization, and


(b) through suitable education, experience, accreditation and
knowledge, may reasonably be relied on to provide advice within his
or her area of expertise, which area of expertise is applicable to
the duty or function;



Section 1 (1) definitions of "validation body" and "verification
body" BEFORE amended by BC Reg 393/2008, s. 11 (a) effective July 1,
2010.


"validation body"
and
"verification body"
mean

(a) a team that includes

(i)  a person who is authorized to act as an auditor of a
company under section 205 of the
Business Corporations Act
, and


(ii)  at least one qualified professional, or


(b) a body accredited, in accordance with ISO 14065, by a
member of the International Accreditation Forum to use ISO 14064-3;





Section 1 (1) definitions of "validation body" and "verification
body" BEFORE amended by BC Reg 347/2010, effective December 6, 2010.


"validation body"
and
"verification body"
mean a body accredited, in accordance with ISO 14065, by a member of
the International Accreditation Forum to use ISO 14064-3;



Section 1 (1) definitions of "validator" and "verifier" were added
by BC Reg 347/2010, effective December 6, 2010.





Section 1 (1) definition of "director" BEFORE amended by BC Reg
124/2014, effective July 1, 2014.


"director"
has the same meaning as in the Carbon Neutral Government Regulation;





Section 4 (5) (part) BEFORE amended by BC Reg 347/2010, effective
December 6, 2010.


(5)  If a validation body makes a validation under subsection
(1), a member of the validation body must sign a statement of
assurance that includes all of the following:



Section 4 (5) (f) BEFORE amended by BC Reg 347/2010, effective
December 6, 2010.


(f) an assertion that the person signing the statement of
assurance is or represents a validation body under this regulation.



Section 4 (6) BEFORE amended by BC Reg 347/2010, effective December
6, 2010.


(6)  If a validation body makes a validation under subsection
(1), a member of the validation body must sign a cover letter, to be
attached to the statement of assurance referred to in subsection
(5), that includes a description of all of the following:


(a) the education, experience, accreditation, professional
designation and knowledge of the individuals carrying out the
validation, including areas of competency relevant to the project;


(b) any relevant accreditation that the validation body holds;


(c) the procedures or policies complied with by the validation
body and the individuals referred to in paragraph (a) to ensure
their independence and the lack of any conflicts of interest;


(d) a description of the quality assurance and quality control,
record keeping and data management procedures used by the validation
body.





Section 6 (4.1) was added by BC Reg 347/2010, effective December 6,
2010.



Section 6 (5) (part) BEFORE amended by BC Reg 347/2010, effective
December 6, 2010.


(5)  If a verification body makes a verification under
subsection (1), a member of the verification body must sign a
statement of assurance that includes all of the following:



Section 6 (5) (g) BEFORE amended by BC Reg 347/2010, effective
December 6, 2010.


(g) an assertion that the person signing the statement of
assurance is or represents a verification body under this
regulation.



Section 6 (6) (a) and (b) BEFORE amended by BC Reg 347/2010,
effective December 6, 2010.


(a) the education, experience, accreditation, professional
designation and knowledge of the individuals carrying out the
verification, including areas of competency relevant to the project;


(b) any relevant accreditation that the verification body
holds;



Section 6 (6) (b.1) was added by BC Reg 347/2010, effective December
6, 2010.





Section 8 (b) BEFORE amended by BC Reg 124/2014, effective July 1,
2014.




(b)

the proponent of the project has transferred any title the proponent
has in the greenhouse gas reduction to the Pacific Carbon Trust, and





Section 9 (3) was added by BC Reg 347/2010, effective December 6,
2010.





Section 9 (3) BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 124/2014, effective July 1,
2014.




(3)

The Pacific Carbon Trust, on request of the director, must provide
to the director within 60 days of the request a specific project
plan or project report that is in the possession of the Pacific
Carbon Trust.





Section 10 BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 393/2008, s. 11 (b).




Qualified professionals



10

The director may request evidence of a person's qualifications to
act as a qualified professional for the purposes of this
regulation and may determine that the person is not qualified to
perform the functions of a qualified professional if the director
is not satisfied that the person possesses the necessary
qualifications.






Section 10.1 was enacted by BC Reg 347/2010, effective December 6,
2010.





Section 10.1 (5) BEFORE amended by BC Reg 124/2014, effective July
1, 2014.




(5)

A determination under subsection (1) does not affect a verification
completed by the verification body if the verification is respecting
greenhouse gas reductions the title for which is or was held by the
Pacific Carbon Trust.



Section 10.1 (6) BEFORE paragraph (c) was repealed by BC Reg
124/2014, effective July 1, 2014.




(6)

The director must serve notice of a determination under subsection
(1) and of an amendment under subsection (3) on




(a)

the validation body or verification body to which the determination
or amendment relates,




(b)

the proponent of any project in respect of which the project plan or
project report is specified under subsection (3), and




(c)

the Pacific Carbon Trust.





Section 11 BEFORE spent by BC Reg 393/2008, effective July 1, 2010.




Amendment



11


Effective on July 1, 2010,



(

a

)


section 1 (1) is amended by repealing the definitions of

"qualified professional"
and
"validation body"
and
"verification body"
and substituting the following:



"validation body"
and
"verification body"
mean a body accredited, in accordance with ISO 14065, by a member
of the International Accreditation Forum to use ISO 14064-3;

, and



(

b

)

section 10 is repealed.







