




"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Notaries Act

Notaries Regulation
B.C. Reg. 229/2004





Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 307/2021, effective November
29, 2021.





B.C. Reg. 229/2004

O.C. 487/2004


Deposited May 21, 2004






Notaries Act


Notaries Regulation






Interpretation




1


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the
Notaries Act
;



"applicant"

means an applicant to the court for enrolment as a member of the
society;



"board of examiners"

means the board of examiners appointed under section 10 of the
Act.






Examinations




2

(1)


For the purpose of sections 6 and 7 of the Act, an applicant being
examined must complete a written paper in each of the following
subject areas:




(a)

contracts;




(b)

wills and trusts;




(c)

property;




(d)

notarial procedure (general);




(e)

notarial procedure (statutes);




(f)

conveyancing and practice.




(2)

An applicant must complete each paper described in subsection (1)
in no more than 2 hours.




(3)

To pass an examination, an applicant must obtain




(a)

at least 65% of the total marks allowed for all 6 papers and at
least 55% of the marks allowed for each separate paper, or




(b)

at least 55% of the marks allowed for each supplemental paper
written under subsection (4).




(4)

If an applicant obtains 65% of the total marks allowed for all 6
papers written under subsection (1), but fails in 3 or fewer of
the papers to obtain at least 55% of the marks allowed for the
paper or each of the papers, as applicable, the applicant may
write a supplemental examination in the subject or subjects in
which the applicant failed.




(5)

For the purpose of being examined in notarial procedure
(statutes), an applicant must have knowledge of those provisions
of the provincial and federal statutes and regulations that apply
to the work and duties of a notary public.






Board of examiners




3


The board of examiners




(a)

has the control and conduct of the examination of applicants,




(b)

having consideration for the convenience of applicants, must
appoint the time and place of examinations, and




(c)

must mark the examinations and report the results to the secretary
of the society.






Examination fees




4


An applicant must pay to the board of examiners a fee of




(a)

$525 for the examination for enrolment, and




(b)

$150 for each paper written in a supplemental examination under
section 2 (4).






Other fees




5


An applicant must pay to the registrar a fee of




(a)

$100 to apply to the court for enrolment as a member,




(b)

$100 on the enrolment of an applicant as a member, and




(c)

$100 for the issuance of a commission under section 13 (4) of the
Act.






Forms




6

(1)


For the purpose of section 11 of the Act, an applicant must take
an oath of office in the form set out in Form 1 of the Schedule.




(2)

For the purpose of section 13 (4) of the Act, the registrar must
issue a commission under that section in the form set out in Form
2 of the Schedule.




Schedule



Form 1


Oath of Office


I,
....................................................................,
do swear that I will not make or attest any act, contract or
instrument in which I know there is violence or fraud, and in all
things I will act uprightly and justly in the office of a notary
public. So help me God.


Sworn before me at .............................., in the Province
of British Columbia, ..............................[
date
].


...................................................................

Judge


...................................................................

Signature of Notary



Form 2


Commission


ELIZABETH II, by the Grace of God, of the United Kingdom, Canada,
and Her other Realms and Territories, QUEEN, Defender of the Faith.


To all to whom these presents shall come â€” GREETING.


KNOW YE that We have commissioned and appointed
......................................... to be a notary public in
and for the ........................................, Province of
British Columbia, with all the powers, rights, duties, privileges
and emoluments by law attaching to the office of notary public.


Given in Our Supreme Court of British Columbia
..............................[
date
] .


...................................................................


Registrar


[SEAL OF THE COURT.]


[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Notaries Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 334, section 55 (3).]





