




"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Financial Institutions Act


Insurance Company Reinsurance Limitation Regulation

B.C. Reg. 324/90






NOTE:

Links below go to regulation content as it was prior to the
changes made on the effective date. (PIT covers changes made
from September 19, 2009 to "current to" date of the
regulation.)




SECTION
EFFECTIVE DATE


Section 3

January 30, 2013



Section 4

January 30, 2013



Section 5

January 30, 2013





November 1, 2019





August 1, 2021









Section 3 (1) BEFORE amended by BC Reg 22/2013, effective January
30, 2013.


(1)  An insurance company other than an insurance company
described in subsection (2) or (3) shall not obtain
reinsurance against more than 75% of the aggregate amount of all
risks undertaken by it in any calendar year.





Section 4 (1) BEFORE amended by BC Reg 22/2013, effective January
30, 2013.


(1)  For the purpose of section 78 of the Act, the reinsurance
that an insurance company may obtain through unauthorized insurers
is limited to an amount of reinsurance against risks undertaken by
the insurance company that is not more than 25% of the aggregate
amount of all risks undertaken by it.





Section 5 was enacted by BC Reg 22/2013, effective January 30, 2013.





Section 5 (1) (part), (2) (part) and (3) BEFORE amended by BC Reg
219/2019, effective November 1, 2019.




(1)

Subject to subsection (2), an insurance company may obtain
reinsurance against more than the percentages set out in section 3
of the various aggregate amounts described in section 3, as
applicable, if the commission is of the opinion that one of the
following applies:




(2)

An insurance company may obtain reinsurance against more than the
percentage of the aggregate amount set out in section 4 (1) or the
amount described in section 4 (2), as applicable, if the commission
is of the opinion that one of the following applies:




(3)

If the superintendent exercises discretion under subsection (1) or
(2), the superintendent must set the maximum percentage for which
the insurance company may obtain reinsurance.





Section 5 (1) (part), (2) (part) and (3) BEFORE amended by BC Reg
208/2021, effective August 1, 2021.




(1)

Subject to subsection (2), an insurance company may obtain
reinsurance against more than the percentages set out in section 3
of the various aggregate amounts described in section 3, as
applicable, if the Authority is of the opinion that one of the
following applies:




(2)

An insurance company may obtain reinsurance against more than the
percentage of the aggregate amount set out in section 4 (1) or the
amount described in section 4 (2), as applicable, if the Authority
is of the opinion that one of the following applies:




(3)

If the Authority exercises its discretion under subsection (1) or
(2), the Authority must set the maximum percentage for which the
insurance company may obtain reinsurance.





