
"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Strata Property Act

Strata Property Regulation
B.C. Reg. 43/2000




(a)

Monthly strata fees payable by the owner of the strata lot
described above

$...............



(b)

Any amount owing to the strata corporation by the owner of the
strata lot described above (other than an amount paid into
court, or to the strata corporation in trust under section 114
of the
Strata Property Act
)

$...............



(c)

Are there any agreements under which the owner of the strata
lot described above takes responsibility for expenses relating
to alterations to the strata lot, the common property or the
common assets?


no

yes
[attach copy of all agreements]





(d)

Any amount that the owner of the strata lot described above is
obligated to pay in the future for a special levy that has
already been approved. The payment is to be made by
................................................
[month day, year]
.

$...............



(e)

Any amount by which the expenses of the strata corporation for
the current fiscal year are expected to exceed the expenses
budgeted for the fiscal year

$...............



(f)

Amount in the contingency reserve fund minus any expenditures
which have already been approved but not yet taken from the
fund

$...............



(g)

Are there any amendments to the bylaws that are not yet filed
in the land title office?


no

yes
[attach copy of all amendments]





(h)

Are there any resolutions passed by a 3/4 vote or unanimous
vote that are required to be filed in the land title office
but that have not yet been filed in the land title office?


no

yes
[attach copy of all resolutions]





(i)

Has notice been given for any resolutions, requiring a 3/4
vote or unanimous vote or dealing with an amendment to the
bylaws, that have not yet been voted on?


no

yes
[attach copy of all notices]





(j)

Is the strata corporation party to any court proceeding or
arbitration, and/or are there any judgments or orders against
the strata corporation?


no

yes
[attach details]





(k)

Have any notices or work orders been received by the strata
corporation that remain outstanding for the strata lot, the
common property or the common assets?


no

yes
[attach copies of all notices or work orders]





(l)

Number of strata lots in the strata plan that are rented
...............



