
"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Employment and Assistance Act

Employment and Assistance Regulation
B.C. Reg. 263/2002




Item



Column 1

Family unit composition




Column 2

Age or status of applicant or recipient




Column 3

Amount of support




1

Sole applicant/recipient and no dependent children


Applicant/recipient is under 65 years of age

$335.00


2

Sole applicant/recipient and no dependent children


Applicant/recipient is under 65 years of age and is a person

who has persistent multiple barriers to employment

$382.92


3

Sole applicant/recipient and no dependent children


Applicant/recipient is 65 or more years of age

$631.42


4

Sole applicant/recipient and one or more dependent children


Applicant/recipient is under 65 years of age

$475.58


5

Sole applicant/recipient and one or more dependent children


Applicant/recipient is under 65 years of age and is a person

who has persistent multiple barriers to employment

$523.58


6

Sole applicant/recipient and one or more dependent children


Applicant/recipient is 65 or more years of age

$772.08


7

Two applicants/recipients and no dependent children


Both applicants/recipients are under 65 years of age

$407.22


8

Two applicants/recipients and no dependent children


One applicant/recipient is a person who has persistent
multiple barriers to employment and the other is not but both
applicants/recipients are under 65 years of age

$496.22


9

Two applicants/recipients and no dependent children


Both applicants/recipients are under 65 years of age and both
are persons with persistent multiple barriers to employment

$552.06


10

Two applicants/recipients and no dependent children


One applicant/recipient is under 65 years of age and

the other is 65 or more years of age

$800.56


11

Two applicants/recipients and no dependent children


Both applicants/recipients are 65 or more years of age

$1 049.06


12

Two applicants/recipients and one or more dependent children


Both applicants/recipients are under 65 years of age

$501.06


13

Two applicants/recipients and one or more dependent children


One applicant/recipient is a person who has persistent
multiple barriers to employment and the other is not but both
applicants/recipients are under 65 years of age

$590.06


14

Two applicants/recipients and one or more dependent children


Both applicants/recipients are under 65 years of age and both
are persons who have persistent multiple barriers to
employment

$646.06


15

Two applicants/recipients and one or more dependent children


One applicant/recipient is under 65 years of age and the other
is 65 or more years of age

$894.56


16

Two applicants/recipients and one or more dependent children


Both applicants/recipients are 65 or more years of age

$1 143.06


17

Sole applicant/recipient and one or more dependent children


Applicant/recipient is under 65 years of age and a warrant has
been issued for the applicant/recipient

$375.58


18

Sole applicant/recipient and one or more dependent children


Applicant/recipient is under 65 years of age and is a person
who has persistent multiple barriers to employment, and a
warrant has been issued for the applicant/recipient

$423.58


19

Sole applicant/recipient and one or more dependent children


Applicant/recipient is 65 or more years of age and a warrant
has been issued for the applicant/recipient

$672.08


20

Two applicants/recipients and no dependent children


Both applicants/recipients are under 65 years of age and a
warrant has been issued for one

$335.00


21

Two applicants/recipients and no dependent children


One applicant/recipient is under 65 years of age and is a
person who has persistent multiple barriers to employment, and
a warrant has been issued for that applicant/recipient, and
the other is under 65 years of age

$335.00


22

Two applicants/recipients and no dependent children


One applicant/recipient is under 65 years of age and is a
person who has persistent multiple barriers to employment, and
the other is under 65 years of age and a warrant has been
issued for that applicant/recipient.

$382.92


23

Two applicants/recipients and no dependent children


One applicant/recipient is under 65 years of age and is a
person who has persistent multiple barriers to employment and
a warrant has been issued for the applicant/recipient, and the
other is 65 years of age or older

$631.42


24

Two applicants/recipients and no dependent children


One applicant/recipient is under 65 years of age and is a
person who has persistent multiple barriers to employment, and
the other is 65 years of age or older and a warrant has been
issued for that applicant/recipient

$382.92


25

Two applicants/recipients and no dependent children


One applicant/recipient is under 65 years of age and a warrant
has been issued for that applicant/recipient, and the other is
65 years of age or older

$631.42


26

Two applicants/recipients and no dependent children


One applicant/recipient is under 65 years of age, and the
other is 65 years of age or older and a warrant has been
issued for that applicant/recipient

$335.00


27

Two applicants/recipients and no dependent children


Both applicants/recipients are 65 years of age or older, and a
warrant has been issued for one

$631.42


28

Two applicants/recipients and no dependent children


Both applicants/recipients are under 65 years of age and both
have persistent multiple barriers to employment, and a warrant
has been issued for one

$382.92


29

Two applicants/recipients and one or more dependent children


Both applicants/recipients are under 65 years of age, and a
warrant has been issued for one

$401.06


30

Two applicants/recipients and one or more dependent children


Both applicants/recipients are under 65 years of age, and a
warrant has been issued for both

$351.06


31

Two applicants/recipients and one or more dependent children


One applicant/recipient is under 65 years of age and is a
person who has persistent multiple barriers to employment, and
the other is under 65 years of age, and a warrant has been
issued for one

$490.06


32

Two applicants/recipients and one or more dependent children


One applicant/recipient is under 65 years of age and is a
person who has persistent multiple barriers to employment, and
the other is under 65 years of age, and a warrant has been
issued for both

$440.06


33

Two applicants/recipients and one or more dependent children


One applicant/recipient is under 65 years of age and is a
person who has persistent multiple barriers to employment, and
the other is 65 years of age or older, and a warrant has been
issued for one

$794.56


34

Two applicants/recipients and one or more dependent children


One applicant/recipient is under 65 years of age and is a
person who has persistent multiple barriers to employment, and
the other is 65 years of age or older, and a warrant has been
issued for both

$744.56


35

Two applicants/recipients and one or more dependent children


One applicant/recipient is under 65 years of age and the other
is 65 years of age or older, and a warrant has been issued for
one

$794.56


36

Two applicants/recipients and one or more dependent children


One applicant/recipient is under 65 years of age and the other
is 65 years of age or older, and a warrant has been issued for
both

$744.56


37

Two applicants/recipients and one or more dependent children


Both applicants/recipients are 65 years of age or older, and a
warrant has been issued for one

$1 043.06


38

Two applicants/recipients and one or more dependent children


Both applicants/recipients are 65 years of age or older and a
warrant has been issued for both

$993.06


39

Two applicants/recipients and one or more dependent children


Both applicants/recipients are under 65 years of age and both
have persistent multiple barriers to employment, and a warrant
has been issued for one

$546.06


40

Two applicants/recipients and one or more dependent children


Both applicants/recipients are under 65 years of age and both
have persistent multiple barriers to employment, and a warrant
has been issued for both

$496.06

