
"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Railway Safety Act


Railway Safety Adopted Provisions Regulation

B.C. Reg. 210/2004




Item


Column 1

Provisions of the


Transportation Safety

Board Regulations

(Canada)


Column 2

Changes



1
Section 2 (1)

All of the definitions are removed except for the
definitions of "Act", "collision", "dangerous goods",
"derailment", "grade-crossing collision", "railway company",
"reportable accident", "reportable incident", "reportable
railway accident", "reportable railway incident", "risk of
collision", "serious injury", "special situation" and "track
operator".

In the definition of "collision", the words "ships, rolling
stock or aircraft, or between a ship, rolling stock or
aircraft and another object" are removed and the words
"rolling stock or between rolling stock and another object"
are substituted.

In the definition of "reportable accident" the words "a
reportable marine accident" and the words "a reportable
commodity pipeline accident or a reportable aviation
accident" are removed.

In the definition of "reportable incident" the words "a
reportable marine incident" and the words "a reportable
commodity pipeline incident or a reportable aviation
incident" are removed.

In the definition of "risk of collision" the words "a ship"
and "or aircraft" are removed.



2
Section 4



3
Section 7

The words "a ship" and "commodity pipeline or aircraft" are
removed.



4
Section 8

In section 8 (2) the words "subsection 3 (1), 4 (1), 5(1) or
6 (1)" are removed and the words "subsection 4 (1)" are
substituted.



5
Section 9

In section 9 (1) the words "as defined in subsection 19 (16)
of the Act" are removed.



6
Section 10

In section 10 (1) the words "paragraph 23 (2) (a), (b) or
(d)" are removed and the words "paragraph 23 (2) (b)" are
substituted.

In section 10 (1) (b) the words "ship" and "commodity
pipeline or aircraft" are removed.

In section 10 (1) (c) the words "as defined in subsection 19
(16) of the Act" are removed.

In section 10 (1) (c) (iii) the words "the ship" and
"commodity pipeline or aircraft" are removed.

Section 10 (2) is removed.



7
Section 20

In section 20 (1) the words ", or at a public inquiry held
pursuant to subsection 12 (2) of these Regulations," are
removed.



8
Section 21



9
Section 28 to 34

In section 31, the words "an aircraft, ship" and "or
commodity pipeline" are removed.



10
Schedule


