
"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Pharmacy Operations and Drug Scheduling Act

Drug Schedules Regulation
B.C. Reg. 9/98



1

Acetaminophen, when recommended for administration by
intravenous injection



1

Adenosine or its salts when sold or recommended for
administration by intravenous injection



1

Adrenocortical hormones and their salts and derivatives

V

, including but not limited to betamethasone dipropionate,
betamethasone phosphate, betamethasone sodium, betamethasone
valerate, budesonide, ciclesonide, clobetasone, cortisone,
dexamethasone acetate, dexamethasone phosphate, dexamethasone
sodium, difluprednate, fludrocortisone acetate, flunisolide,
fluticasone furoate, fluticasone propionate, hydrocortisone
aceponate, hydrocortisone acetate, hydrocortisone sodium,
methylprednisolone acetate, methylprednisolone,
methylprednisolone sodium, methylprednisolone succinate,
mometasone furoate, prednisolone acetate, prednisolone
phosphate, prednisolone sodium, prednisone, triamcinolone
acetonide, triamcinolone hexacetonide (except

(a) hydrocortisone or hydrocortisone acetate, when sold as a
single medicinal ingredient in a concentration that provides
1% or less hydrocortisone in preparations for topical use on
the skin,

(b) hydrocortisone or hydrocortisone acetate, when sold in
combination with any other non-prescription medicinal
ingredient that provides 1% or less hydrocortisone in
preparations for topical use on the skin,

(c) clobetasone butyrate, when sold in a concentration of
0.05% in cream preparations for topical use on the skin,

(d) fluticasone propionate, when sold for the treatment of
allergic rhinitis in a nasal spray that delivers 50 mcg per
metered spray for individuals 18 years of age and older),

(e) mometasone furoate for the treatment of allergic rhinitis
in a nasal spray that delivers 50 mcg per spray for those 12
years of age and older, and

(f) triamcinolone acetonide in a nasal spray that delivers 55
mcg per spray for adults and children 12 years of age and
older



3
Aluminum oxide


1
Amobarbital


1
Amphetamine


3
Anetholtrithione


1

Antipyrine (except preparations for topical use)

V




2

Antipyrine (except otic preparations)



3
Antipyrine (for otic use)


1
Apomorphine and its salts


1
Benzphetamine


3
Chlophedianol and its salts


1

Cimetidine or its salts (except when sold in concentrations of
200 mg or less per oral dosage unit and indicated for the
treatment of heartburn)



3

Cimetidine or its salts, when sold in concentrations of 100 mg
or less per oral dosage unit and indicated for the treatment
of heartburn



1

Copper chloride (cupric chloride) in injectable form for
parenteral nutrition



1

Deoxycholic acid and its salts, when used in an injectable
form



3

Deoxycholic acid and its salts (except when used in an
injectable form)



1A
Diacetylmorphine


2

Dimenhydrinate and its salts (for parenteral use)



3

Dimenhydrinate and its salts (for oral or rectal use)



3

Electrolyte solutions (for oral rehydration)



3

Ephedrine and its salts in combination products (in
preparations containing no more than 8 mg per unit dose, with
a label recommending no more than 8 mg/dose or 32 mg/day and
for use for no more than 7 days, and indicated for nasal
congestion)



2

Ephedrine and its salts in single entity products (in
preparations containing no more than 8 mg per unit dose, with
a label recommending no more than 8 mg/dose or 32 mg/day and
for use for no more than 7 days, and indicated for nasal
congestion)



2

Glycopyrrolate or its salts (except glycopyrronium bromide,
including but not limited to glycopyrrolate, when used orally
or for inhalation)



1

Glycopyrronium bromide (including but not limited to
glycopyrrolate, when used orally or for inhalation)



2

Hyoscine and its salts and derivatives [scopolamine] (except
hyoscine butylbromide, when recommended for parenteral use)



1

Hyoscine butylbromide (when recommended for parenteral use)



1
Ketamine and its salts


2

Levonorgestrel (when sold in concentrations of 1.5 mg or less
per oral dosage unit, except when labelled to be taken as a
single dose of 1.5 mg and in package sizes containing no more
than 1.5 mg levonorgestrel, packaged and labelled for
emergency contraception)



3

Levonorgestrel (when sold in concentrations of 1.5 mg or less
per oral dosage unit to be taken as a single dose of 1.5 mg,
packaged and labelled for emergency contraception, in package
sizes containing no more than 1.5 mg of levonorgestrel)



1

Lidocaine (when in a preparation containing an equal amount of
tetracaine and recommended for topical use on the skin, in
concentrations of 7% or higher)



2

Magnesium sulfate (for parenteral use)



1
Methamphetamine


1

Mifepristone or its derivatives



2

Nicotinic acid [niacin] in extended-release formulations,
except when sold in a modified-release oral dosage form that
provides 500 mg or more per dosage unit or per daily dose



1
Phendimetrazine and its salts


1
Phenmetrazine and its salts


1

Potassium citrate (when recommended for the treatment of renal
tubular acidosis and kidney stones)



2

Potassium salts (in oral preparations containing more than 5
mmol per single dose, except

(a) potassium bromide,

(b) potassium gluconate when sold or recommended for
administration to cats,

(c) potassium para-aminobenzoate, and

(d) potassium citrate when recommended for the treatment of
renal tubular acidosis and kidney stones)



3

Pseudoephedrine and its salts and preparations in combination
products



2

Pseudoephedrine and its salts and preparations in single
entity products



1

Salicylic acid (when sold in topical formulations containing
salicylic acid at concentrations greater than 20% or with a pH
less than 3.0, or both, except when sold to be applied to
warts, corns or calluses)



2

Salicylic acid (when sold to be applied to warts, corns or
calluses in topical preparations in concentrations greater
than 40%)



2

Sodium acetate (for parenteral use)



2

Sodium chloride (single ingredient solutions for parenteral or
ophthalmic use in concentrations of more than 0.9%) [NOTE:
Does not apply to contact lens solutions intended to be rinsed
off prior to insertion into eye]



2

Sodium phosphate (for parenteral use)



1

Tetracaine (when in a preparation containing an equal amount
of lidocaine and recommended for topical use on the skin, in
concentrations of 7% or higher)



1

Ulipristal or its salts or derivatives (including but not
limited to ulipristal acetate)


