
"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Workers Compensation Act


Occupational Health and Safety Regulation

B.C. Reg. 296/97





Risk Level




Description of the workplace




Examples






High risk

Workplaces at which corrosive chemicals or other materials are
used in a manner, concentration and quantity which present a
risk of irreversible tissue damage to the eyes or skin, or of
serious illness resulting from rapid absorption of a toxic
substance through the eyes or skin, or where the work activity
presents a risk of ignition of the clothing.


Maintenance of ammonia refrigeration equipment or chlorine
bleaching or disinfection equipment, handling corrosive (WHMIS
Class E) materials such as corrosive cleaning products or
chemical reagents where there is a high risk of skin or eye
contact, filling chemical storage batteries.



Moderate risk

Workplaces at which chemicals or other materials are used in a
manner, concentration and quantity which present a risk of
irritation or other reversible harm to the eyes or skin, or of
illness resulting from absorption of a toxic substance through
the eyes or skin.


Spraying automotive paints and finishes, operating solvent
degreasing equipment, handling irritant materials (irritants
classified as WHMIS Class D2B) such as cleaning products or
chemical reagents where there is a moderate risk of skin or
eye contact, handling dry-cleaning solvents and spotting
agents.



Low risk

Workplaces at which chemicals or other materials are used in a
manner and quantity which present a risk of mild eye or skin
irritation.


Using detergents, silicone-based mold-release agents, some
hair-dressing solutions, rosin-cored solders, welding and
grinding, working in dusty areas.


