
"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Safety Standards Act

Elevating Devices Safety Regulation
B.C. Reg. 101/2004





CANADIAN STANDARDS ASSOCIATION (CSA) STANDARDS





Item


Column 1


Column 2



1
ASME A17.1-2007/CSA B44-07

Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators, with the following
changes:


Exclusion of Clause 2.14.1.8.3.

Deletion of Clause 2.27.3.2.4(a) and replacement with:


(a) the activation of a fire alarm initiating device specified
in 2.27.3.2.1(a) or 2.27.3.2.2(a) that is located at the
designated level, shall cause all elevators serving that level
to be recalled to an alternative level, unless Phase 1
Emergency Recall is in effect.


Exclusion of Sections 5.3, 5.4, 5.7, 5.8 and 5.9.

Deletion of Clause 5.10.1.9.5 and replacement with the
following:


5.10.1.9.5

Openings of Hoistway Doors or Gates from Landing Side

.

All elevators used for construction or temporary elevators
shall be provided with hoistway doors and gate devices that
comply with either of the following:

(a) interlocks conforming to 2.12.2

(b) combination mechanical locks and electric contacts
conforming to 2.12.3

The mechanical locking device, when used on temporary doors,
shall be self-latching.


Exclusion of Sections 7.7, 7.8, 7.9, 7.10 and 7.11.

Exclusion of Section 8.6 except the following:


Section number and title,

Clause 8.6.5.8 with the following change:

Effective October 8, 2015, hydraulic cylinders installed below
ground shall conform to 3.18.3.4, or the elevator shall
conform to 8.6.5.8(a) or 8.6.5.8(b):

(a) the elevator shall be provided with car safeties
conforming to 3.17.1 and guide rails, guide-rail supports, and
fastenings conforming to 3.23.1; or

(b) the elevator shall be provided with a plunger gripper
conforming to 3.17.3. The plunger gripper shall grip the
plunger when the applicable maximum governor tripping speed in
Table 2.18.2.1 is achieved;

Subsection 8.6.12.


Amendment to the introductory paragraph in section 8.9 as
follows:


Requirement 8.9 contains requirements for all new and altered
equipment within the Scope of this Code.

Exclusion of Section 8.11.



2

CSA Standard CAN/CSA-B311-02 with

Update No. 1 of June 2003

Safety Code for Manlifts


3
CSA B355-09

Lifts for Persons with Physical Disabilities, with the
following changes:

Exclusion of Clause 5.1.2 (b) and (d).

Inclusion of Annex B as mandatory.


Deletion of Clause B.2.2 of Annex B and replacement with the
following:


B.2.2. Unless otherwise specified in this Annex, the
maintenance specified in Clause B.2.1 shall be carried out at
intervals no longer than 3 months.



4

National Standard of Canada

CAN/CSA Z98-14


Passenger ropeways and passenger conveyors, with the following
changes:


Exclusion of Clause 4.12.4.2.

Inclusion of Annexes A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J and K as
mandatory.




5

National Standard of Canada CAN/CSA

Z185-M87 (R2001)


Safety Code for Personnel Hoists, with the following changes:

Inclusion of Appendix A as mandatory.



6
CSA International Z267-00

Safety Code for Amusement Rides and Devices, with the
following changes:

Inclusion of Appendix A and C as mandatory.



7

ASME A17.7-2007/

CSA B44.7-07


Performance-based safety code for elevators and escalators



8
CSA Standard B44.2-07

Maintenance requirements and intervals for elevators,
dumbwaiters, escalators,

and moving walks





AMERICAN NATIONAL STANDARDS INSTITUTE (ANSI) STANDARDS





Item


Column 1


Column 2



1
ANSI A10.22-1990 (R1998)

Safety Requirements for Rope-Guided and 1

Workers' Hoists â€” American National Standard for Construction
and Demolition Operations


