
"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Employment and Assistance for Persons with Disabilities Act


Employment and Assistance for Persons with Disabilities Regulation

B.C. Reg. 265/2002



Item

Column 1

Family unit composition


Column 2

Age or status of applicant or recipient


Column 3

Amount of base support


Column 4


Amount of

transportation support




1

Sole applicant/recipient and no dependent children


Applicant/recipient is a person with disabilities

$556.42
$52.00


2

Sole applicant/recipient and one or more dependent children


Applicant/recipient is a person with disabilities

$697.08
$52.00


3

Two applicants/recipients and no dependent children


One applicant/recipient is a person with disabilities, the
other is not a person with disabilities and is under 65 years
of age

$725.56
$52.00


4

Two applicants/recipients and no dependent children


Both applicants/recipients are persons with disabilities

$999.06
$104.00


5

Two applicants/recipients and no dependent children


One applicant/recipient is a person with disabilities, the
other is not a person with disabilities and is 65 or more
years of age

$974.06
$52.00


6

Two applicants/recipients and one or more dependent children


One applicant/recipient is a person with disabilities, the
other is not a person with disabilities and is under 65 years
of age

$819.56
$52.00


7

Two applicants /recipients and one or more dependent children


Both applicants/recipients are persons with disabilities

$1 093.06
$104.00


8

Two applicants/recipients and one or more dependent children


One applicant/recipient is a person with disabilities, the
other is not a person with disabilities and is 65 or more
years of age

$1 068.06
$52.00


9

Sole applicant/recipient and one or more dependent children


Applicant/recipient is a person with a disability and a
warrant has been issued for the applicant/recipient

$597.08
$52.00


10

Two applicants/recipients and no dependent children


One applicant/recipient is a person with a disability, and the
other is under 65 years of age, and a warrant has been issued
for one

$556.42
$52.00


11

Two applicants/recipients and no dependent children


One applicant/recipient is a person with a disability, and the
other is 65 years of age or older and a warrant has been
issued for that applicant/recipient

$556.42
$52.00


12

Two applicants/recipients and no dependent children


One applicant/recipient is a person with a disability and a
warrant has been issued for that applicant/recipient, and the
other is 65 years of age or older

$556.42
$52.00


13

Two applicants/recipients and no dependent children


Both applicants/recipients are persons with a disability and a
warrant has been issued for one

$581.42
$104.00


14

Two applicants/recipients and one or more dependent children


One applicant/recipient is a person with a disability, and the
other is under 65 years of age and a warrant has been issued
for that applicant/recipient

$719.56
$52.00


15

Two applicants/recipients and one or more dependent children


One applicant/recipient is a person with a disability and a
warrant has been issued for that applicant/recipient, and the
other is under 65 years of age

$719.56
$52.00


16

Two applicants/recipients and one or more dependent children


One applicant/recipient is a person with a disability and the
other is under 65 years of age, and a warrant has been issued
for both

$669.56
$52.00


17

Two applicants/recipients and one or more dependent children


One applicant/recipient is a person with a disability, and the
other is 65 years of age or older and a warrant has been
issued for that applicant/recipient

$968.06
$52.00


18

Two applicants/recipients and one or more dependent children


One applicant/recipient is a person with a disability and a
warrant has been issued for that applicant/recipient, and the
other is 65 years of age or older

$968.06
$52.00


19

Two applicants/recipients and one or more dependent children


One applicant/recipient is a person with a disability and the
other is 65 years of age or older, and a warrant has been
issued for both

$918.06
$52.00


20

Two applicants/recipients and one or more dependent children


Both applicants/recipients are persons with a disability and a
warrant has been issued for one

$993.06
$104.00


21

Two applicants/recipients and one or more dependent children


Both applicants/recipients are persons with a disability and a
warrant has been issued for both

$943.06
$104.00

