





View Complete Regulation






B.C. Reg. 76/84

O.C. 518/84


Deposited March 19, 1984






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Wildlife Act


Closed Areas Regulation

[Last amended July 1, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 157/2022]


Schedule 8


Seasonal No Hunting Areas


(Section 9)





Cecil Lake




1


During the period June 1 to October 15 in that portion of M.U. 7-33
contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the southeasterly corner of Section 22, Township 85,
Range 16, W6 and proceeding northerly along the easterly boundaries of
Sections 22, 27 and 34 to the northeasterly corner of Section 34;
thence easterly to the point of intersection with the northwesterly
corner of Section 35, Township 85, Range 15, W6; thence southerly
along the westerly boundaries of Sections 35, 26 and 23 to the
southwesterly corner of Section 23; thence westerly to the point of
commencement.

[am. B.C. Reg. 172/86, s. 4.]





Repealed




2


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 109/85, s. 5 (a).]






Sunset Prairie




3


During the period June 1 to October 31 in that portion of M.U. 7-32
contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the northwest corner of Lot 34, Tp 80, R 18, W6 Peace
River Land District; thence westerly in a straight line approximately
10 km to the northwest corner of Sunset Prairie Community Pasture;
thence southerly approximately 700 m along the westerly boundary of
the said pasture to the point of intersection with a pipeline right of
way; thence approximately 5.8 km in a general southwesterly direction
along a fence that parallels the pipeline right of way to a point due
North of the northwest corner of Lot 31, Tp 79, R 19, W6; thence
southerly in a straight line approximately 6 km to the northwest
corner of Lot 31; thence southerly in a straight line to the southwest
corner of Lot 30; thence easterly in a straight line to the southeast
corner of Lot 29; thence northeasterly in a straight line to the
northeast corner of Lot 33; thence easterly in a straight line to the
northeast corner of Lot 31, Tp 79, R 18, W6; thence northerly in a
straight line to the northwest corner of Lot 5, Tp 80, R 18, W6;
thence easterly in a straight line to the northwest corner of Lot 4,
thence easterly, northerly, then easterly along the northerly, then
westerly, then northerly boundaries of Lot 4 to the southwest corner
of Lot 10; thence northerly in a straight line to the point of
commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 167/88, s. 12.]





Bear Mountain




4


During the period June I to October 15 in that portion of M.U. 7-20
contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the northeast corner of District Lot 22, Tp 77, R 16, W6
Peace River Land District; thence southerly in a straight line to the
southeast corner of Lot 3; thence in a general easterly direction to a
point near the midpoint of the southerly boundary of Lot 1; thence
southeasterly along a fence to the point of intersection with the
westerly boundary of Lot 30, Tp 23; thence southerly in a straight
line to the southwest corner of Lot 6; thence in a general
southwesterly direction along the fence that forms the southerly
boundary of the community pasture, and a prolongation thereof to the
point of intersection with the midline of Kiskatinaw River; thence in
a general northerly direction along the midline of Kiskatinaw River to
the point of intersection with the midline of an unnamed stream which
flows into Kiskatinaw River in Lot 35, Tp 19; thence in a general
westerly direction along the midline of the said stream to a point due
South of the middle point of the northerly boundary of Lot 35; thence
northerly in a straight line to the point; thence easterly along the
northerly boundary of Lot 35 to the middle point of the southerly
boundary of District Lot 1, Tp 77, R 17, W6; thence northerly to a
point due East of the middle point of the westerly boundary of Lot l;
thence westerly in a straight line to the point; thence northerly in a
straight line to the southeast corner of Lot 14; thence westerly in a
straight line to the middle point of the southerly boundary of Lot 14;
thence northerly in a straight line to the middle point of the
northerly boundary of Lot 26; thence easterly in a straight line to
the southwest corner of Lot 31, Tp 77, R 16, W6; thence northerly
along the westerly boundary of Lot 31 to the middle point; thence
easterly in a straight line to the middle point on the easterly
boundary of Lot 33; thence southerly in a straight line to the
northwest corner of Lot 22; thence easterly to the point of
commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 167/88, s. 13.]





K'waal and Kitkiata Watersheds




5


During the period January 1 to October 31 in that portion of M.U. 6-11
outlined in red on the attached Map No. 8-5/20.

[en. B.C. Reg. 169/2020, App. 1, s. 3.]



Contents
|



Sections 1 to 12

|



Schedule 1

|



Schedule 2

|



Schedule 3

|



Schedule 4

|



Schedule 5 to 5.1

|



Schedule 6

|



Schedule 7

|

Schedule 8 |


Schedule 8.1

|



Schedule 9

|



Schedule 10 to 13

|



Schedule 14

|



Schedule 15





