





View Complete Regulation






B.C. Reg. 76/84

O.C. 518/84


Deposited March 19, 1984






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Wildlife Act


Closed Areas Regulation

[Last amended July 1, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 157/2022]


Schedule 3


No Shooting or Hunting Areas


(Section 4)





Repealed




1


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 224/92, s. 3.]






Tranquille Wildlife Management Area




2


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
the City of Kamloops, KDYD, which is contained within the following
described boundaries:



Commencing at the northeast corner of Lot 341; thence southerly then
easterly following the fence line to the southeast corner of Lot 341
at the low water mark; thence westerly following the shoreline at the
low water mark to the southwest corner of the Tranquille Wildlife
Management Area on the lakeshore at low water mark; thence northerly
and easterly along the western and northern boundary of the Tranquille
Wildlife Management Area following the Tranquille and Red Lake road
right of way to the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 205/94, s. 2.]





Repealed




3


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 322/95, s. 2 (a).]






Sicamous




4


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in Kamloops Division
of Yale District, except organized territory, which is contained
within the following described boundaries:



All waters of Mara and Shuswap Lakes Iying east of a straight line
between Murdock and Semaphore Points and north of a line running
east-west through the mouth of Sicamous Creek.






Salmon Arm




5


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
the District of Salmon Arm, KDYD, except organized territory, which is
contained within the following described boundaries:



All the waters of Shuswap Lake Iying southeasterly of a straight line
commencing at the outer end of the Salmon Arm Wharf; thence
northeasterly to the white marker on the northern boundary of the
northwest quarter of Section 24, Township 20, Range 10.






Swan Lake




6


That portion of the Province of British Columbia, in the vicinity of
the Corporation of the City of Vernon, ODYD, which is contained within
the following described boundaries:



Those waters of Swan Lake to the maximum high water mark including all
marshland adjacent to Swan Lake.

[am. B.C. Regs. 109/85, s. 2 (a); 204/85, s. 1.]





Repealed




7


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 109/85, s. 2 (b).]






Repealed




8


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 385/85, s. (a).]






Highway 3




9







(a)

All areas within 0.4 km of the centerline of Highway 3 between the
easterly boundary of the Town of Hope to the westerly boundary of
Manning Provincial Park.




(b)

All areas within 0.4 km of the centerline of Highway 3 between the
easterly boundary of Manning Provincial Park and the westerly boundary
of the village of Princeton.

[en. B.C. Reg. 46/89, s. 1.]





Similkameen Mining Company Limited




10


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
the Smelter Lakes, SDYD, which is contained within the following
described boundaries:



Commencing at Whipsaw Bridge on Highway 3; thence downstream
approximately 1.6 km (1 mile) to the junction of Whipsaw Creek and the
Similkameen River; thence upstream on the west bank of the Similkameen
River for approximately 0.43 km (0.33 mile) to the chain post in the
southwest corner of Lot 2164(S), SDYD; thence easterly 455 m (1 501.5
feet) to the southeast corner of Lot 2164(S): thence S. 78° E to a
point approximately 2.8 kilometres (1.75 mile) to the northeast corner
of Lot 52(S); thence due East 545 metres (1 798.5 feet); thence
northeasterly approximately 790 metres (2 607 feet) to the Ferguson
Farm house fenceline; thence due East approximately 455 metres (1
501.5 feet) to Copper Mountain Road; thence southerly along said road
for approximately 4.24 kilometres (2.5 miles) to Cumont Camp; thence
due South approximately 2.2 kilometres (7 216 feet) to a point
approximately 4 kilometres (2.5 miles) due East of the southern
intersection of Highway 3 and the highway relocation; thence due West
to said relocation; thence northerly along Highway 3 relocation for
approximately 8 kilometres (5 miles) to point of commencement.






Repealed




11


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 225/98, s. 2 (a).]






Addington Marsh




12


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
Port Coquitlam which is contained within the following described
boundaries:



Commencing at the northern extremity of the dyke between Pitt River
and Addington marsh and proceeding due West to a point due North of
the end of the surveyed road allowance which divides Section 9 and
Section 10, Coquitlam District Municipality; thence proceeding due
South to the outside edge of the dyke; thence proceeding easterly,
northerly and northwesterly along the outside edge of the dyke to the
point of commencement.






Tabor Mountain




13


That portion of M.U. 7-9 which is contained within the following
described boundaries:



Commencing at the junction of the Willow River and Highway 16; thence
northerly along the Willow River to a point between its confluence
with Bowes Creek and its confluence with Spey Creek where the Willow
River comes closest to the Spey Creek logging access road; thence
proceeding westerly to Spey Creek logging access road; thence
proceeding in a general southwesterly direction along said road to its
junction with Highway 16; thence southeasterly along said highway to
the point of commencement.






Repealed




14


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 211/93, s. 4.]






Walter Clough Wildlife Management Area




15


That portion of M.U. 4-17 which is contained within the following
described lots:



Block 5, District Lot 381, Kootenay District, Plan 725, and Block 8,
District Lot 382, Kootenay District, Plan 722.






Argenta Marsh Wildlife Management Area




16


That portion of M.U. 4-19 which is contained within the following
described lot:



Lot A, District Lot 1884, Kootenay District, Plan 13962.






North Thormanby Island




17


That portion of M.U. 2-16 which is contained within the following
described boundary:



The mean low water mark of North Thormanby Island.

[am. B.C. Reg. 459/90, s. 1.]





Repealed




18


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 115/2018, App. 1, s. 1.]






The Province




19


That portion of British Columbia within 100 m of




(a)

a church, school building, school yard and playground,




(b)

a dwelling house,




(c)

a farm or ranch building that is occupied by persons or domestic
animals, and




(d)

a regional district park in Management Units 1-1 to 1-15 and 2-1 to
2-19.

[en. B.C. Reg. 194/99, s. 2.]





Repealed




20


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 205/94, s. 5.]






Repealed




21


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 215/86, s. 1.]






Pitt Wildlife Management Area




22

(1)


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 2-08
contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the midpoint of Grant Narrows on the midline of Pitt
River; thence in a general easterly direction along the midline of
Pitt River to a point due West of the Coast Guard navigation marker on
the natural boundary of Pitt River on the easterly shore thereof;
thence due East to the said Coast Guard navigation marker; thence in a
general southerly direction along the natural boundary of Pitt River
on the easterly shore thereof to the point of intersection with the
westerly Maple Ridge Municipal Boundary; thence southerly along the
westerly Maple Ridge Municipal Boundary for approximately 2 km to the
point of intersection with the Nature Dyke; thence in a general
westerly and northerly direction along the southerly and westerly
sides of the Nature Dyke to the point of intersection with the dyke
bordering Fox Reach on the easterly shore thereof; thence due North to
the point of intersection with the midline of Pitt River; thence in a
general easterly direction along the midline of Pitt River to the
point of commencement.




(2)

That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
Pitt Lake, NWD, which is contained within the following described
boundaries:



Commencing at the intersection of Koerner Road (also known as the X-Y
line) and Rannie Road; thence northerly along Rannie Road for a
distance of approximately 1.75 km; thence northeasterly along Rannie
Road for a distance of approximately 0.6 km to the intersection with
the dyke (completed in March 1978), which runs in a general southerly
direction; thence southerly along the east side of the dyke for a
distance of approximately 2.4 km to the intersection with Koerner
Road; thence westerly along Koerner Road to point of commencement.


[en. B.C. Reg. 189/84, s.1; am. B.C. Regs. 162/87, s. 2, 235/97, s.
1.]






Mt. Bergeron — Tumbler Ridge




23


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 7-21
contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the confluence of Murray River and Quality Creek and
proceeding northwesterly in a straight line to the summit of Mt.
Bergeron; thence turning 90° to the southwest and proceeding
southwesterly in a straight line to a point on the middle thread of
Bullmoose Creek; thence proceeding downstream along the middle thread
of Bullmoose Creek to its confluence with Wolverine River; thence
southerly to the southerly bank of Wolverine River; thence downstream
along the southerly bank of Wolverine River to the westerly bank of
Murray River; thence southerly along the westerly bank of Murray River
to a point opposite the southerly bank of Flatbed Creek; thence
easterly to the southerly bank of Flatbed Creek; thence upstream along
the southerly bank of Flatbed Creek to Highway 52; thence due North to
the Tumbler Ridge height of land; thence northwesterly along the top
of the ridge to a point due East of the southeast corner of Lot 304
Peace River District; thence due West to the easterly bank of Murray
River; thence northeasterly along the bank to the point of
commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 109/85, s. 2 (c).]





Kamloops




24


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in Kamloops Division
of Yale District, which is contained within the following described
boundaries:



Except organized territory, all waters of the North Thompson, Thompson
and South Thompson Rivers and land adjacent to the South Thompson
River, bounded on the north by the Canadian National Railway bridge at
Kamloops Junction and on the west by the Overlander Bridge and on the
east by the South Thompson River to the Pritchard Bridge and Pinantan
Road, including the uplands to the Trans Canada Highway on the south
and to East Shuswap Road on the north.

[en. B.C. Reg. 80/2012, App. 1, s. 1.]





Stone Mountain




25


That portion of M.U.s 7-50, 7-51 and 7-54 contained within the
described boundaries of Stone Mountain Provincial Park, within a
distance of one mile (1.6 kilometres) of the Alaska Highway.

[en. B.C. Reg. 476/2004, s. (a).]





Nekite River




26


That portion of the Province of British Columbia within 100 m of the
Department of Fisheries and Oceans (Canada) spawning channel on the
Nekite River, located approximately 10 km upstream from the Nekite
River estuary at Smith Inlet (approximate position 51° 27' N. Lat.,
127° 05' W. Long.).

[en. B.C. Reg. 263/86.]





Repealed




27


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 204/91, s. 1.]






North Kitsumkalum




28


That portion of Lot 5118, Range 5 Coast District, lying west of Kalum
Lake Road.

[en. B.C. Reg. 162/87, s. 4.]





Pacific Rim (Westcoast) National Park




29


That portion of British Columbia in M.U.s 1-3 and 1-8 which is
contained within the following described boundaries:



PART I


All those parcels or tracts of land, together with all that foreshore
and land covered by water, situated in Clayoquot District and lying
within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the northeast corner of Wya Indian Reserve No. 7;
thence westerly along the northerly boundary of Wya Indian Reserve No.
7 and continuing westerly along the westerly production of said
northerly boundary to the 20 metre isobath of the bed of the
Pacific Ocean as shown on Canadian Hydrographic Service (C.H.S.)
Chart 3603 and which indicates depths as being reduced to lowest
normal tide, which at Tofino is 2.1 metres below mean water
level; thence in a general northwesterly direction along said 20 metre
isobath to the westerly production of the northerly boundary of
District Lot 1360; thence easterly along said westerly production
of the northerly boundary of District Lot 1360 to the northwest
corner thereof, being a point on the natural boundary of Cox Bay, and
continuing easterly along the northerly boundaries of District Lots
1360 and 256 to the northwest corner of the Northeast 1/4 of District
Lot 256; thence southerly and easterly along the westerly and
southerly boundaries of said Northeast 1/4 of District Lot 256 to
the easterly boundary of District Lot 256; thence southerly along said
easterly boundary of District Lot 256 to the southeast corner thereof;
thence southerly in a straight line to the northwest corner of
District Lot 1966; thence southerly and easterly along the westerly
and southerly boundaries of District Lot 1966 and continuing
easterly along the easterly production of the southerly boundary of
said District Lot 1966 to the westerly boundary of District
Lot 242; thence northerly along the westerly boundaries of
District Lots 242, 243 and 250 to the northwest corner of said
District Lot 250, being a point on the natural boundary of an
unnamed arm of Browning Passage on the southerly shore thereon; thence
in a general easterly direction along said natural boundary of the
unnamed arm, being the northerly boundaries of District Lots 250,
249, 251 and 252 to the northeast corner of said District
Lot 252; thence in a general northwesterly direction along said
natural boundary of the unnamed arm and continuing in a general
easterly direction along the natural boundary of Browning Passage, on
the southerly shore thereof, to a point thereon, lying due West of the
most westerly point of District Lot 1431; thence in a straight
line, on a bearing of 45°, a distance of 221 metres, more or
less, to a point thereof, lying due West of the most northerly point
of Dinner Island, being part of District Lot 288; thence due East to
said northerly point of Dinner Island and continuing due East 101
metres; thence in a straight line, on a bearing of 135°, to a point on
the natural boundary of Browning Passage, on the southerly shore
thereof, said point lying 704 metres due North and
604 metres due East, more or less, from the most westerly
southwest corner of said District Lot 288; thence southeasterly
along said natural boundary of Browning Passage to a point thereon,
lying due West of the most westerly point of Indian Island; thence due
East to said most westerly point of Indian Island; thence in a general
northeasterly and southeasterly direction along the natural boundary
of said Indian Island to the most easterly point thereon; thence
southwesterly in a straight line to a point on the natural boundary of
Tofino Inlet, on the southerly shore thereof, said point being
480 metres, more or less, due East of the most southerly point of
District Lot 1680, being Indian Island Indian Reserve
No. 30; thence in a straight line, on a bearing of 135° to the
northerly boundary of the watershed of Grice Bay; thence in a general
southeasterly direction along said northerly boundary of the watershed
of Grice Bay to the westerly boundary of District Lot 1473;
thence southerly along the westerly boundaries of District Lots 1473
and 1472 to the southwest corner of said District Lot 1472; thence due
South to the northerly boundary of District Lot 494; thence easterly
and southerly along the northerly and easterly boundaries of District
Lots 494 and 487A to the northwest corner of District Lot 398; thence
easterly along the northerly boundaries of District Lots 398 and 403
to the northwest corner of District Lot 404; thence southerly and
easterly along the westerly and southerly boundaries of said District
Lot 404 to the northwest corner of District Lot 1385; thence easterly
and southerly along the northerly and easterly boundaries of said
District Lot 1385 and the West 1/2 of District Lot 1321 to the
southwest corner of the East 1/2 of District Lot 1321; thence easterly
along the southerly boundaries of District Lot 1321 and 1320 to the
northwest corner of the East 1/2 of District Lot 1314; thence
southerly and easterly along the westerly and southerly boundaries of
said East 1/2 of District Lot 1314 to the northwest corner of District
Lot 428; thence easterly and southerly along the northerly and
easterly boundaries of District Lot 428 to the southwest corner of
District Lot 1313; thence easterly along the southerly boundary of
said District Lot 1313 to the northeast corner of District Lot 442;
thence southerly along the easterly boundaries of District Lots 442,
441, 447, 461 and 464 to the northeast corner of Lot 1 of
District Lot 467, Plan 44818, on deposit in the Victoria Land Title
Office; thence southerly and westerly along the easterly and southerly
boundaries of said Lot 1, Plan 44818, to the northeast corner of
Wya Indian Reserve No. 7, being the point of commencement.

EXCEPT

FIRSTLY: the whole of Oo-oolth Indian Reserve No. 8, Quisitis Indian
Reserve No. 9, Kootowis Indian Reserve No. 4, Esowista Indian Reserve
No. 3 and Indian Island Indian Reserve No. 30


SECONDLY: the Tofino Airport, described as:




(a)

District Lots 167, 168, 169, 170 and 178, Clayoquot District;




(b)

those portions of District Lots 163, 164 and 165 lying to the north of
Tofino-Ucluelet Highway, Plan 1417RW, except thereout, from said
District Lot 163, Parcel A, Plan 32328, with both Plans on deposit in
the Victoria Land Title Office;




(c)

those portions of District Lots 113, 166 and 192 lying to the north
and east of Tofino-Ucluelet Highway, Plan 1417RW, on deposit in the
Victoria Land Title Office;




(d)

those portions of District Lots 193, 194, 195 and 196 lying to the
east of Plan 1371RW, on deposit in the Victoria Land Title Office.

PART II

All those parcels or tracts of land, together with all that foreshore
and land covered by water, situated in Barclay District and lying
within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the centre of Sail Rock, being a small islet west of
Benson Island, District Lot 43; thence due North 2.735 kilometres;
thence in a straight line, on a bearing of 38°, a distance of 8.046
kilometres; thence in a straight line, on a bearing of 115° 30', a
distance of 9.334 kilometres; thence in a straight line, on a bearing
of 217°, a distance.of 12.391 kilometres; thence in a straight line,
on a bearing of 296°, a distance of 6.598 kilometres, more or less, to
a point due South of the centre of Sail Rock; thence due North 1.931
kilometres, more or less, to the centre of Sail Rock, being the point
of commencement.


EXCEPT the whole of each of the following: Cleho Indian Reserve No. 6,
Keith Island Indian Reserve No. 7, Nettle Island Indian Reserve No. 5
and Omoah Indian Reserve No. 9.

PART III

Firstly: Lot A of Section 18, Plan 38380 on deposit in the Victoria
Land Title Office, and the West 1/2 of the North 1/2 of the North 1/2
of the Southeast 1/4 of said Section 18, all of Township 1, Barclay
District.


Secondly: Lot 1 of Sections 1 and 12, Plan 44813, Lot 1 of Section 1,
Plan 27489, and Lot A of Section 1, Plan 10982, all of Township 11,
Renfrew District, all plans on deposit in the Victoria Land Title
Office.


Thirdly: All those parcels or tracts of land, together with all that
foreshore and land covered by water, situated in Barclay and Renfrew
Districts, and lying within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the southwest corner of Oyees Indian Reserve No. 9,
Renfrew District, being a point on the natural boundary of Nitinat
Lake, on the southeasterly shore thereof; thence easterly along the
southerly boundary of said Oyees Indian Reserve No. 9 to the southeast
corner thereof; thence due South 1.006 kilometres; thence due East 783
metres; thence southerly in a straight line to the northwest corner of
Block A of District Lot 756; thence easterly along the northerly
boundary of said Block A of District Lot 756 to the northeast corner
thereof; thence southerly along the easterly boundaries of Blocks A
and B of District Lot 756 to Pipe Post No. 1, being a point on the
easterly boundary of the Reserve for Pacific Rim National Park as
shown on Plan 12 Tube 1410 on file with the Surveyor General Branch of
the Ministry of Water, Land and Air Protection, Victoria, a duplicate
of which is deposited as Plan 71572 in the Canada Lands Surveys
Records at Ottawa; thence in general westerly and southwesterly
directions along said easterly boundary of the Reserve for Pacific Rim
National Park as shown on said Plan 12 Tube 1410 to the northeast
corner of Section 56; thence southerly along the easterly boundary of
said Section 56 to the southeast corner thereof; thence in a straight
line, on a bearing of 190°, a distance of 609 metres; thence
southeasterly, in a straight line to the northeast corner of Section
50; thence southeasterly in a straight line to a point on the easterly
boundary of District Lot 727, said point being 340 metres due North
and 1.319 kilometres due West, more or less, from the northeast corner
of District Lot 730; thence due East to the natural boundary of
Carmanah Creek, on the right bank thereof; thence in a general
southerly direction along said natural boundary of Carmanah Creek to a
point 305 metres due South and 230 metres due East, more or less, from
the northeast corner of District Lot 729; thence southeasterly in a
straight line to the most northerly northeast corner of District Lot
732; thence southerly and easterly along the easterly and northerly
boundaries of said District Lot 732 to the northwest corner of
District Lot 734; thence easterly and southerly along the northerly
and easterly boundaries of said District Lot 734 to the northerly
boundary of District Lot 49; thence easterly along the northerly
boundaries of District Lots 49 and 736 to the northeast corner of said
District Lot 736; thence southerly along the easterly boundary of said
District Lot 736 to the northwest corner of District Lot 737; thence
easterly along the northerly boundary of said District Lot 737 to the
northeast corner thereof; thence in a straight line, on a bearing of
110°, a distance of 7.320 kilometres; thence due East 4.828
kilometres; thence due North 920 metres; thence northeasterly in a
straight line to the northwest corner of District Lot 708; thence
easterly along the northerly boundary of said District Lot 708 to the
northeast corner thereof; thence easterly in a straight line to the
southwest corner of the Fractional South 1/2 of Section 11, Township
11; thence northerly and easterly along the westerly and northerly
boundaries of said Fractional South 1/2 of Section 11 to a point on
the natural boundary of Gordon River, on the right bank thereof, and
shown as the most northerly northeast corner of Lot A of said Section
11, Township 11, Renfrew District, Plan 44812, on deposit in the
Victoria Land Title Office; thence in a general southerly direction
along said natural boundary of Gordon River and continuing southerly
along the natural boundary of San Juan River, on the right bank
thereof, to the natural boundary of Port San Juan, on the
northwesterly shore thereof; thence in a general southwesterly
direction along said natural boundary of Port San Juan to a point
lying 1.0 metres, more or less, due South of the P. Rock shown on Plan
7 Tube 1550, on file with the Surveyor General Branch of the Ministry
of Water, Land and Air Protection, Victoria, a duplicate of which is
deposited as Plan 73926, in the Canada Lands Surveys Records at
Ottawa, being a survey of part of the easterly boundary of the Reserve
for Pacific Rim National Park; thence southerly along said easterly
boundary of the Reserve for Pacific Rim National Park, as shown on
said Plan 7 Tube 1550 to the P. Rock at the most easterly point of
Owen Island, shown on said Plan 7 Tube 1550, and continuing southerly
along the southerly production of said easterly boundary to the 20
metre isobath of the bed of Juan de Fuca Strait, as shown on Canadian
Hydrographic Service (C.H.S.) Chart 3606 and which indicates depths as
being reduced to lowest normal tide, which at Port Renfrew is 2.0
metres below mean water level; thence in a general northwesterly
direction along said 20 metre isobath of the bed of Juan de Fuca
Strait and continuing in general northwesterly and northeasterly
directions along the 20 metre isobath of the bed of the Pacific Ocean
as shown on Canadian Hydrographic Service (C.H.S.) Chart 3602 and
which indicates depths as being reduced to lowest normal tide, which
at Bamfield is 2.0 metres below mean water level, to a point thereon,
lying due West of the northwest corner of District Lot 412, Barclay
District; thence due East to said northwest corner of District Lot
412, being a point on the natural boundary of Tapaltos Bay, on the
northerly shore thereof; thence easterly along the northerly
boundaries of District Lot 412, Fractional Section 7 and Fractional
Section 8 of Township 1, to the northwest corner of Anacla Indian
Reserve No. 12; thence southerly along the westerly boundary of Anacla
Indian Reserve No. 12 to the southwest corner thereof, being a point
on the natural boundary of Pachena River on the right bank thereof;
thence in a straight line, on a bearing of 100°, a distance of 183
metres, more or less, to the natural boundary of Pachena Bay, on the
northeasterly shore thereof, being a point on the southerly boundary
of said Anacla Indian Reserve No. 12; thence in a general
southeasterly direction along said natural boundary of Pachena Bay to
the southeast corner of said Anacla Indian Reserve No. 12; thence
northerly along the easterly boundary of Anacla Indian Reserve No. 12
to the northwest corner of Lot 1 of Section 9, Township 1, Plan 44819,
on deposit in the Victoria Land Title Office; thence easterly and
southerly along the northerly and easterly boundaries of said Lot 1,
Plan 44819, to the northwest corner of the Northeast 1/4 of Section 4,
Township 1; thence southerly along the westerly boundary of said
Northeast 1/4 of Section 4 to the southwest corner thereof; thence
southwesterly in a straight line to the northeast corner of District
Lot 659; thence southwesterly in a straight line to the northwest
corner of District Lot 273; thence southerly and easterly along the
westerly and southerly boundaries of said District Lot 273 to the
northeast corner of District Lot 275; thence southerly along the
easterly boundary of said District Lot 275 to the southeast corner
thereof; thence southeasterly in a straight line to the northwest
corner of District Lot 281; thence easterly along the northerly
boundaries of District Lots 281 and 282 to the Pipe Post set as a
quarter post on the northerly boundary of said District Lot 282;
thence in a straight line, on a bearing of 140°, a distance of 240
metres; thence in a straight line, on a bearing of 108°, a distance of
680 metres; thence in a straight line, on a bearing of 119°, a
distance of 1.670 kilometres; thence easterly in a straight line to
the northwest corner of District lot 288; thence southeasterly in a
straight line to the most northeasterly internal angle of District Lot
103; thence easterly along the northerly boundaries of District Lot
103, 60 and 59 to the northwesterly internal angle of District Lot 59;
thence easterly in a straight line to the northwest corner of District
Lot 527; thence easterly along the northerly boundary of District Lot
527, Barclay District, a distance of 650 metres, more or less, to the
northwesterly boundary of the watershed of Tsusiat Lake; thence in a
general northeasterly direction along the northwesterly boundaries of
the watersheds of Tsusiat and Hobiton Lakes to a point thereon, being
3.010 kilometres due North and 1.690 kilometres due West, more or
less, of the northwest corner of Homitan Indian Reserve No. 8; thence
due East 600 metres; thence in a straight line, on a bearing of 139°,
a distance of 1.100 kilometres; thence due South to the northwesterly
boundary of the watershed of Nitinat Lake; thence in a general
southwesterly direction along said northwesterly boundary of the
watershed of Nitinat Lake to a point thereon, being 260 metres due
North and 860 metres due West, more or less, of the northwest corner
of Homitan Indian Reserve No. 8; thence southeasterly in a straight
line to the intersection of the natural boundary of Hobiton Creek, on
the left bank thereof, with the westerly boundary of Homitan Indian
Reserve No. 8; thence southerly and easterly along the westerly and
southerly boundaries of Homitan Indian Reserve No. 8 to the southeast
corner thereof, being a point on the natural boundary of Nitinat Lake,
on the westerly shore thereof; thence in a general southwesterly
direction along said natural boundary of Nitinat Lake to a point
thereon, lying due North of the northwest corner of District Lot 769,
Renfrew District; thence southeasterly in a straight line to the most
northerly point of Block A of District Lot 746, Renfrew District,
being a point on the natural boundary of Nitinat Lake, on the
southerly shore thereof, thence in general easterly and northeasterly
directions along said natural boundary of Nitinat Lake, on the
southerly and southeasterly shores thereof, to the southwest corner of
Oyees Indian Reserve No. 9, being the point of commencement.

EXCEPT

Firstly: the whole of each of the following: Ahuk Indian Reserve No.
1, Carmanah Indian Reserve No. 6, Cheewat Indian Reserve No. 4A,
Claoose Indian Reserve No. 4, Clutus Indian Reserve No. 11, Cullite
Indian Reserve No. 3, Iktuksasuk Indian Reserve No. 7, Kich-ha Indian
Reserve No. 10, Masit Indian Reserve No. 13, Sarque Indian Reserve No.
5, Tsuquanah Indian Reserve No. 2, and Wyah Indian Reserve No. 3;


Secondly: Lot 2 of Block 10, Lots 1 and 2 of Block 16, Lot 8 of Block
18 and Lot 3 of Block 37, all of Section 57, Plan 1771, and Block 7 of
District Lot 527, Plan 2008, and Section 63, all in Renfrew District,
with both Plans on deposit in the Victoria Land Title Office.

PART IV

All those parcels or tracts of land, together with all that foreshore
and land covered by water, situated in Clayoquot District and lying
within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the northeast corner of Section 70, Alberni District
(situated in Clayoquot District), being a point on the natural
boundary of Kennedy Lake, on the southerly shore thereof; thence
southerly along the easterly boundary of said Section 70 to the
northwesterly limit of Alberni-Tofino Highway, as shown on Plan
1936RW, on deposit in the Victoria Land Title Office; thence in a
general southerly direction along the westerly limit of said
Alberni-Tofino Highway to the southeast corner of Lot 1 of Sections 69
And 70, Alberni District (situated in Clayoquot District), Plan 44820,
on deposit in the Victoria Land Title Office; thence westerly,
northerly, westerly and northerly along the southerly and westerly
boundaries of said Lot 1 to the northwest corner thereof, being a
point on the natural boundary of Kennedy Lake, on the southerly shore
thereof; thence due North 300 metres; thence easterly in a straight
line to a point 500 metres due North of the northeast corner of said
Section 70; thence due South to said northeast corner of Section 70,
being the point of commencement.


[en. B.C. Reg. 205/94, s. 6; am. B.C. Reg. 109/2002, s. 1.]






Garibaldi Park




30


All Crown land and land covered by water in Group l, New Westminster
Land District and Lillooet Land District described as:



Commencing at a point lying 4.023 km south and 201.1 m east of the
southeast corner of District Lot 5316, New Westminster District;
thence due South 3.25 km; thence due West 5.631 km; thence due South
4.827 km, more or less; thence due West to the southeast corner of
District Lot 7224, Group 1, New Westminster District; thence west
along the southerly boundary and the westerly production of the
southerly boundary of said Lot 7224 a distance of 2.575 km; thence due
South to a point, said point lying 1.65 km east and 1.85 km south of
the southeast corner of Lot 3113, Group l, New Westminster District;
thence in a northwesterly direction to the most easterly southeast
corner of Lot 6421, Group l, New Westminster District; thence
westerly, then southerly, then westerly along the easterly and
southerly boundaries of said Lot 6421 to a point of intersection with
the easterly boundary of Lot 3116, Group 1, New Westminster District;
thence southerly along the easterly boundary of said Lot 3116 to the
southeast corner and a point thereon; thence in a southerly direction
to a point, said point lying 1.65 km east and 4.445 km south of the
southeast corner of Lot 3113, Group 1, New Westminster District;
thence due South 7.230 km; thence east 4.827 km; thence due South
9.654 km; thence due West 980 m; thence due South 985 m; thence due
West 842 m, more or less, to a point due North of the northeast corner
of District Lot 7132, Group 1, New Westminster District; thence due
South 1.420 km, said point lying 500 m north of the northeast corner
of Lot 7132, Group 1, New Westminster District; thence due West 200 m;
thence due South 500 m to the northerly boundary of Lot 7132, Group 1,
New Westminster District; thence due West 500 m along the said
northerly boundary of Lot 7132 and the westerly prolongation thereof;
thence due South 480 m; thence in a southeasterly direction 860 m to a
point, said point lying 1.02 km south of the northeast corner of Lot
7132, Group 1, New Westminster District; thence due South 300 m;
thence due East 804 m; thence due South 342 m; thence due East 3.226
km; thence due North 1.811 km; thence due East 1.609 km; thence due
North 804 m; thence due East 1.609 km; thence due North 2 km; thence
due East 3.5 km; thence due South 4.827 km; thence due East 38.5 km;
thence due North 10.49 km; thence due West 5.705 km; thence north
2.415 km, more or less, to the southeast corner of District Lot 5533,
being Indian Reserve No. 12 "Glazier Creek", Group 1, New Westminster
District; thence east, and then in a general northerly then
southeasterly direction along the south, west and north boundaries of
said District Lot 5533 to the northeast corner thereof, said corner
lying on the natural boundary of Glacier Lake, on the easterly shore
thereof; thence in a general northerly, westerly then southerly
direction along the natural boundary of Glacier Lake on the easterly,
northerly and westerly shores thereof to a point thereon, said point
lying 5.02 km north and 935 m east of the southeast corner of
aforesaid District Lot 5533; thence due West 3.195 km; thence due
North 7.242 km; thence due West 6.437 km; thence due North 30.578 km,
more or less, to the 50 degree 14 minutes parallel of north latitude;
thence west 19.312 km along said parallel; thence due South 9.254 km;
thence due West 4.705 km; thence due South to a point of intersection
with the natural boundary of Blackcomb Creek, on the left bank
thereof; thence due South 50 m; thence in a general southerly
direction parallel to and 50 m perpendicularly distant from the left
bank of the natural boundary of Blackcomb Creek to a point lying due
East of the northeast corner of Lot 4750 as shown on NTS Map 92J/2;
thence due South 1.15 km; thence due East 100 m; thence due 325 m;
thence due East 130 m; thence due South 370 m; thence due East 220 m;
thence due South 1.3 km. thence due West 300 m; thence due South 700
m; thence due West 1.75 km; thence due South 1.5 km; thence due West
1.1 km; thence due South 545 m; thence due East 350 m; thence
southerly and westerly along the height of land to Flute Peak; thence
northwest in a straight line to Piccolo Peak; thence continuing
northwest along the production of said straight line 1.86 km; thence
west in a straight line to the point of commencement. EXCEPT Block A
of District Lot 7132. The whole containing 194,904 hectares, more or
less.

[en. B.C. Reg. 185/90, s. 2.]





Roderick Haig-Brown Recreation Area




31


That portion of M.U. 3-37, in the vicinity of Chase, contained within
the following described boundaries:



That portion of the Roderick Haig-Brown Recreation Area being south of
the Squilax-Anglement Road and downstream of the Adams River bridge.

[en. B.C. Reg. 162/87, s. 7.]





Repealed




32-34


Repealed. [B.C.Reg.204/91, s. 1.]






Repealed




35


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 185/90, s. 3.]






Conkle Lake Park




36


That portion of M.U. 8-12, in the vicinity of Rock Creek, contained
within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the northwest corner of Lot 18895, Similkameen Division,
Yale District, thence due East along the north boundary of said lot to
the northeast corner; thence due West a distance of 280 m; thence
south 27° E for a distance of 540 m; thence due West a distance of 3.1
km to the west boundary of Lot 18895, SDYD, thence northerly along
said boundary to the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 162/87, s. 12.]





Line Creek Operations




37


That portion of M.U. 4-23 in the vicinity of Sparwood outlined in red
on the attached Map No. 3-37/18.

[en. B.C. Reg. 239/2018, App. 1, s. 1.]





Okanagan Connector Highway




38


That portion of M.U.s 8-08, 3-12 and 8-06 in the Province of British
Columbia contained within the following described boundaries:



All areas within 0.4 km of either side of the centreline of the
Coquihalla Phase III (Okanagan Connector) Highway between its junction
with Highway 97 near Peachland and its junction with Highway 5 near
Aspen Grove.

[en. B.C. Reg. 167/88, s.1.]





Repealed




39


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 224/92, s. 3.]






Lazo Marsh




40


That portion of M.U. 1-06 in the vicinity of Comox which is contained
within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the southwest corner of Lot 245, Comox Land District;
thence northerly approximately 360 m to a point; thence westerly to
the point of intersection with the west boundary of D.L. 195; thence
northerly to the northwest corner of D.L. 195; thence easterly along
the northern boundary of said district lot to the northeast corner of
D.L. 195; thence southerly along the east boundary of D.L. 195
approximately 360 m to a point; thence easterly approximately 205 m to
a point; thence approximately 325 m at S 51° E to a point; thence
southerly approximately 145 m to the point of intersection with the
southerly boundary of Lot 245; thence easterly approximately 170 m at
S 53° E to a point; thence approximately 505 m at S 18° W to a point;
thence approximately 170 m at S 9° W to the point of intersection with
the southerly boundary of Lot 244; thence westerly approximately 270 m
to a point; thence approximately 150 m at N 24° E to a point; thence
northerly approximately 170 m to a point; thence approximately 495 m
at N 33° W to a point; thence westerly approximately 85 m to the point
of intersection with the westerly boundary of Lot 244; thence
northerly approximately 97 m to the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 235/97, s. 1.]





Repealed




41


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 176/89, s. 1.]






Cathedral Park




42


That portion of M.U. 8-03 in the Province of British Columbia
contained within the following described boundaries known locally as
the Core Area of Cathedral Park:



Commencing at the point of intersection of the left bank natural
boundary of an unamed creek, locally known as Lindsay Creek, and the
left bank natural boundary of Lakeview Creek at approximately UTM
North 5442423 metres and UTM East 707745 metres; thence due East to a
point lying 100 metres east of the right bank natural boundary of
Lakeview Creek; thence in a general southerly direction along a line
parallel to and 100 metres perpendicularly distant from said Lakeview
Creek natural boundary to a point lying due East of the most northerly
point on the natural boundary of Goat Lake; thence due West to the
natural boundary of Goat Lake; thence in a general southerly direction
along the easterly natural boundary of Goat Lake to the most southerly
point thereon; thence due South to the height of land separating the
watersheds of Lakeview Creek and Ewart Creek; thence in a general
westerly, northwesterly and northeasterly direction along a height of
land forming the southerly and westerly boundary of the watershed of
Lakeview Creek to a peak at approximately UTM North 5440408 metres and
UTM East 704283 metres, locally known as Scout Mountain; thence north
to the point of intersection with the natural boundary of Lindsay
Creek, on the left bank thereof at approximately UTM North 5441222
metres and UTM East 704283 metres; thence in a general northeasterly
direction along the said natural boundary to the point of commencement
based on the 1:20,000 TRIM Provincial Baseline Atlas.

[en. B.C. Reg. 151/2006, s. 3 (a).]





Road 248




43


That portion of the Province of British Columbia, in the vicinity of
Beatton Provincial Park, that is within 50 metres of either side of
the midline of Number 248 Road.

[en. B.C. Reg. 204/91, s. 2.]





Nitinat River




44


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U.s 1-3 and 1-4
that is contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at a point on the midline of Nitinat River at its
intersection with the westerly boundary of Indian Reserve #15; thence
in a general southerly direction along the midline of Nitinat River to
the natural boundary of Nitinat Lake on the northerly shore thereof
and including all intervening territory for 500 metres on either side
of the midline of Nitinat River.

[en. B.C. Reg. 204/91, s. 2.]





Cowichan Lake




45


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
Cowichan Lake, Cowichan Lake District, which is contained within the
following described boundaries:



Commencing on Highway 18 at the junction of the Youbou Road and Lake
Cowichan road; thence 100 m due North of the centre line of said
junction; thence following parallel to the Youbou section of Highway
18 to Youbou; thence continuing 100 m north and parallel of the main
private industrial road along the north shore of Cowichan Lake to the
most western point of the lake, thence following the main private
industrial road along the west and south shore of Cowichan Lake to
Honeymoon Bay; thence along Highway 18 from Honeymoon Bay to the
village of Lake Cowichan; thence continuing along the said highway to
the point of commencement, and including all of the intervening land
and waters except Indian reserve lands and organized territory.

[en. B.C. Reg. 80/2012, App. 1, s. 2.]





Trophy Mountain




46


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
Wells Gray Park and contained within the following described
boundaries:



Commencing at the outlet of an unnamed lake on Moul Creek, on the
southerly shore thereof, said outlet being 2 100 metres east and
4 650 metres south, more or less, of the southeast corner of Lot
2889; thence due South 500 metres; thence due East 1 300 metres
more or less to an intersection with the 1 450 metre contour of
the southerly slope of the Moul Creek watershed; thence due South 7
600 metres, more of less, to an intersection with the 1 800 metre
contour of a southwesterly slope of Trophy Mountain, said point of
intersection being 4 900 metres west and 2 500 metres south,
more or less, of the summit of Trophy Mountain; thence in a general
southeasterly direction along said 1 800 metre contour to the
northwesterly prolongation of an unnamed creek which is tributary to
the main stream of the unnamed northerly fork of Spahats Creek; thence
southeasterly along said northwesterly prolongation and continuing
south easterly along the aforementioned unnamed tributary, on the
right bank thereof, to the point of intersection of said right bank,
with the right bank of the main stream of the unnamed northerly fork
of Spahats Creek; thence due East 750 metres, more or less, to the
point of intersection with the 1 750 metre contour of the easterly
slope of the watershed of the aforementioned unnamed northerly fork of
Spahats Creek; thence northerly along said 1 750 metre contour to a
point 2 300 metres west and 3 750 metres south, more or less, of the
summit of Trophy Mountain; thence due East 6 800 metres, more or
less, to a point 4 400 metres east and 3 750 metres south, more or
less, of the summit of Trophy Mountain; thence due North 3 300 metres,
more or less, to an intersection with the 1 750 metre contour of a
southerly boundary of the watershed of the unnamed creek flowing in an
easterly direction into Raft River; thence following said 1 750
metre contour in a general westerly and northeasterly direction to a
point 4 400 metres east and 3 650 metres north, more or less, of
the summit of Trophy Mountain; thence due West 2 000 metres, more or
less, to the point of intersection with the natural boundary of Moul
Creek, on the left bank thereof; thence in a general westerly
direction along said left bank of Moul Creek, the natural boundary of
Moul Lake, on the southerly shore thereof and continuing along the
aforementioned left bank of Moul Creek, and the natural boundary of an
unnamed lake on Moul Creek, on the southerly shore thereof to the
outlet of said unnamed lake, being the point of commencement and
containing 6 934 hectares, more or less.

[en. B.C. Reg. 204/91, s. 2.]





Saturna Island East End




47


That portion of Saturna Island in M.U. 1-01 which lies easterly of the
west side of Fiddler Road and the northerly and southerly
prolongations thereof and is contained within the mean low water mark
of that portion of Saturna Island.

[en. B.C. Reg. 224/92, s. 3.]





Radar Lake




48


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in Section 14,
Township 77, Range 16 west of the 6th Meridian, Peace River Land
District, in the vicinity of the City of Dawson Creek, contained
within 200 metres above the high water mark around Radar Lake.

[en. B.C. Reg. 224/92, s. 3.]





Kinuseo Falls




49


That portion of M.U. 7-21 in the Province of British Columbia
contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at a point at 914.4 m elevation approximately 5 340 m at S
88° W from the southeast corner of Lot 1476, Peace River Land
District; thence in a general southerly, then westerly, then
southeasterly direction at 914.4 m elevation to a point approximately
8 450 m at S 66° W from the southeast corner of Lot 1476; thence
westerly in a straight line to a point 402 m due West of the natural
boundary of Murray River on the left bank thereof; thence in a general
northerly direction at 402 m west of the natural boundary of Murray
River on the left bank thereof to a point due East of the southeast
corner of Lot 817; thence N 8° W approximately 2 500 m; thence
approximately N 37° E to the point of intersection with the natural
boundary of Murray River on the right bank thereof; thence due East to
a point at 884 m elevation; thence in a general southeasterly
direction at 884 m elevation to a point due West of the point of
commencement; thence easterly in a straight line to the point of
commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 224/92, s. 3.]





Ucluelet




50


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 1-8 that is
contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the southernmost point on Amphitrite Point on the
natural boundary of Ucluth Peninsula; thence more or less east in a
straight line to the most southerly point on the natural boundary of
Ucluelet Inlet on an unnamed peninsula directly south of Indian
Reserve #5; thence in a generally northwesterly, southwesterly and
southeasterly direction along the natural boundary of Ucluelet Inlet
along the mean high water mark to the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 211/93, s. 6.]





Repealed




51


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 219/2000, s. 3.]






JeweI Lake




52


That portion of M.U. 8-14 in the Province of British Columbia that is
contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at a point 25 metres west of the point of intersection of
the midline of Jewel Lake Road and the northwest corner of D.L. 1875s,
Similkameen Division, Yale Land District; thence in a general
northeasterly direction following 25 metres west of the midline of
Jewel Lake Road to the point of intersection with the westerly
boundary of Jewel Lake Provincial Park; thence in a general northerly,
easterly, southerly then westerly direction along the westerly,
northerly, easterly and southerly boundaries of Jewel Lake Provincial
Park to a point 100 metres east of the natural boundary of Jewel Lake
on the easterly shore thereof; thence in a general southwesterly
direction following 100 metres east from the natural boundary of Jewel
Lake on the easterly shore thereof to the point of intersection with
the boundary of Jewel Lake meadow; thence more or less southwesterly
following the eastern boundary of Jewel Lake meadow to a point of
intersection with the northern boundary of D.L. 1875s; thence westerly
along said boundary to the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 211/93, s. 6.]





De Courcey Island




53


That portion of M.U. 1-1 in the Strait of Georgia which is contained
within the following described boundary:


The mean low water mark of De Courcey Island.


[en. B.C. Reg. 205/94, s. 7; am. B.C. Reg. 190/96, s. 3 (b).]






Centennial Beach




54


That portion of M.U. 2-04 in the municipality of Delta from a point at
the mean high water mark in Boundary Bay East along the International
Boundary between Canada and the United States of America to a concrete
marker establishing the International Boundary; thence northwesterly
to the mean high water mark in the vicinity of the point where 64
Street, municipality of Delta, meets the dyke bordering Boundary Bay;
thence southerly, southwesterly and southeasterly along the mean high
water mark to the point of commencement.


[en. B.C. Reg. 205/94, s. 7; am. B.C. Reg. 235/97, s. 1.]






Sun Peaks Resort




55


That portion of M.U. 3-27 in the vicinity of Kamloops, KDYD, which is
contained within the following described boundaries:


All land and waters within 400 metres of any ski lift, run, facility
or development of the Sun Peaks Resort.

[en. B.C. Reg. 322/95, s. 2 (b).]





Radium




56


Those portions of the Province of British Columbia in M.U.s 4-25 and
4-35 that are contained within the following described boundaries:



Firstly, District Lots 9577 and 10112,


Secondly, District Lots 5111, 10725 and 10726 and

Thirdly, that area described as follows:


Commencing at the southwest corner of District Lot 9009; thence
northerly along the western boundary of said Lot to the point of
intersection with the northern boundary of the right of way of the
B.C. Hydro power line; thence southwesterly along said right of way
boundary to the point of intersection with the eastern boundary of the
right of way of the Canadian Pacific Railway; thence in a general
northerly direction along said right of way boundary to the point of
intersection with the southern boundary of District Lot 2580; thence
easterly along said southern boundary, and northerly along the eastern
boundary of said Lot, to the point of intersection with the southern
boundary of District Lot 10113; thence easterly along said southern
boundary and northerly along the eastern boundary of said Lot to the
point of intersection with the northern boundary of District Lot
9565A; thence easterly along said northern boundary and along the
northern boundary of District Lot 9560 to the northeast corner of
District Lot 9560; thence southerly along the eastern boundaries of
District Lots 9560, 9010 and 9567 to the northwest corner of District
Lot 8207; thence easterly, southerly and westerly along the northern,
eastern and southern boundaries of said Lot to the southeast corner of
District Lot 9009; thence westerly to the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 190/96, s. 3 (c).]





Edgewater




57


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 4-35 which is
contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the point of intersection of the westerly boundary of
Highway 95 right of way and the southerly boundary of the Edgewater
South Approach Road right of way, Kootenay Land District; thence in a
general westerly and northerly direction along the southern and
western boundary of the Edgewater South Approach Road right of way to
its intersection with the northerly boundary of District Lot 348, Plan
1954, Parcel B; thence westerly following said boundary to the
easterly boundary of the Canadian Pacific Railway right of way; thence
northwesterly following the easterly boundary of the Canadian Pacific
Railway right of way to its intersection with the southerly boundary
of Lot 353: thence easterly following the southern boundary of Lot 353
to the westerly boundary of the Bench Road right of way; thence
northerly and easterly following said boundary to its intersection
with the westerly boundary of the McCauley Street right of way; thence
northeasterly following the westerly boundary of said right of way to
its intersection with the westerly boundary of the Highway 95 right of
way; thence southeasterly following the westerly boundary of Highway
95 to the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 151/2006, s. 3 (b).]





Mudge Island




58


That portion of M.U. 1-1 in the Strait of Georgia which is contained
within the following described boundary:



The mean low water mark of Mudge Island.

[en. B.C. Reg. 194/99, s. 3.]





Fording River/Greenhills Operations




59


That portion of M.U. 4-23 in the vicinity of Elkford outlined in red
on the attached Map No. 3-59/18.


[en. B.C. Reg. 95/2015, App. 3, s. 1; am. B.C. Reg. 239/2018, App. 1,
s. 2.]






East Moberly Lake 169




60


Those portions of M.U.s 7-31 and 7-32 within 400 metres of the East
Moberly Lake 169 Indian Reserve.

[en. B.C. Reg. 130/2016, App. 1, s. 1.]





Elkview Operations




61


That portion of M.U. 4-23 in the vicinity of Sparwood outlined in red
on the attached Map No. 3-61/18.

[en. B.C. Reg. 239/2018, App. 1, s. 3.]





Coal Mountain Operations




62


That portion of M.U. 4-23 in the vicinity of Sparwood outlined in red
on the attached Map No. 3-62/18.

[en. B.C. Reg. 239/2018, App. 1, s. 3.]





Sea to Sky Highway




63


That portion of the Province of British Columbia within
400 metres of the road allowance of Highway 99 between the
northern boundary of the District of Squamish and the southern
boundary of the Resort Municipality of Whistler.

[en. B.C. Reg. 169/2020, App. 1, s. 1.]





Callaghan Road




64


That portion of the Province of British Columbia within
400 metres of the road allowance of Callaghan Road between the
northwest corner of the Resort Municipality of Whistler and the gate
at Whistler Olympic Park.

[en. B.C. Reg. 169/2020, App. 1, s. 1.]





Kalamalka Lake Park




65


That portion of M.U. 8-22 outlined in red on the attached map 'No
Shooting or Hunting Area Kalamalka Lake Park'.

[en. B.C. Reg. 157/2022, App. 3, s. 3.]





Marble Canyon Park




66


That portion of M.U. 3-17 outlined in red on the attached map 'No
Shooting or Hunting Area Marble Canyon Park'.

[en. B.C. Reg. 157/2022, App. 3, s. 3.]



Contents
|



Sections 1 to 12

|



Schedule 1

|



Schedule 2

|

Schedule 3 |


Schedule 4

|



Schedule 5 to 5.1

|



Schedule 6

|



Schedule 7

|



Schedule 8

|



Schedule 8.1

|



Schedule 9

|



Schedule 10 to 13

|



Schedule 14

|



Schedule 15





