

Multilateral Instrument 96-101


Trade Repositories and

Derivatives Data Reporting



Securities Act




Jurisdiction


Law, Regulation and/or Instrument





European Union

Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and Council
of 4 July 2012 on OTC derivatives, central counterparties and
trade repositories, as amended from time to time.

Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 148/2013 of 19 December
2012 supplementing Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European
Parliament and of the Council on OTC derivatives, central
counterparties and trade repositories with regard to regulatory
technical standards on the minimum details of the data to be
reported to trade repositories, as amended from time to time.


Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 151/2013 of 19 December
2012 supplementing Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European
Parliament and of the Council on OTC derivatives, central
counterparties and trade repositories, with regard to regulatory
technical standards specifying the data to be published and made
available by trade repositories and operational standards for
aggregating, comparing and accessing the data, as amended from
time to time.


Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1247/2012 of 19
December 2012 laying down implementing technical standards with
regard to the format and frequency of trade reports to trade
repositories according to Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the
European Parliament and of the Council on OTC derivatives,
central counterparties and trade repositories, as amended from
time to time.





United States of America



CFTC Real-Time Public Reporting of Swap Transaction Data

, 17 C.F.R. pt. 43 (2013), as amended from time to time.


CFTC Swap Data Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements

, 17 C.F.R. pt. 45 (2013), as amended from time to time.



CFTC Swap Data Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements:
Pre-Enactment and Transition Swaps

, 17 C.F.R. pt. 46 (2013), as amended from time to time.



