

Multilateral Instrument 96-101


Trade Repositories and

Derivatives Data Reporting



Securities Act




Data Field


Description


Required for Pre-existing Derivatives






Transaction identifier


The unique transaction identifier as provided by the recognized
trade repository or the identifier as identified by the two
counterparties, electronic trading venue of execution or clearing
agency.

Y



Master agreement type


The type of master agreement, if used for the reported derivative.

N



Master agreement version


Date of the master agreement version (e.g., 2002, 2006).

N


Cleared

State whether the derivative has been cleared by a clearing
agency.

Y


Intent to clear

State whether the derivative will be cleared by a clearing agency.

N


Clearing agency

LEI of the clearing agency where the derivative is or will be
cleared.


Y

(If available)



Clearing member

LEI of the clearing member, if the clearing member is not a
counterparty.

N



Clearing exemption


State whether one or more of the counterparties to the derivative
are exempted from a mandatory clearing requirement.

N



Broker/Clearing intermediary


LEI of the broker acting as an intermediary for the reporting
counterparty without becoming a counterparty.

N



Electronic trading venue identifier


LEI of the electronic trading venue where the transaction was
executed.

Y


Inter-affiliate

State whether the derivative is between two affiliated entities.


Y

(If available)



Collateralization

State whether the derivative is collateralized.

Field Values:

•  Fully (initial and variation margin required to be
posted by both parties);


•  Partially (variation only required to be posted by
both parties);


•  One-way (one party will be required to post some
form of collateral);

•  Uncollateralized.

N



Identifier of reporting counterparty


LEI of the reporting counterparty or, in case of an individual,
its client code.

Y



Identifier of non-reporting counterparty


LEI of the non-reporting counterparty or, in case of an
individual, its client code.

Y


Counterparty side

State whether the reporting counterparty was the buyer or seller.
In the case of swaps, other than credit default, the buyer will
represent the payer of leg 1 and the seller will be the payer of
leg 2.

Y



Identifier of agent reporting the derivative


LEI of the agent reporting the derivative if reporting of the
derivative has been delegated by the reporting counterparty.

N



Jurisdiction of reporting counterparty


If the reporting counterparty is a local counterparty under the
derivatives data reporting rules of Manitoba, Ontario or Québec,
or is a local counterparty under paragraph (a) or (c) of the
definition of location counterparty in the derivatives data
reporting rules of any other jurisdiction of Canada, state all
such jurisdictions.


Y

(If available)




Jurisdiction of non-reporting counterparty


If the non-reporting counterparty is a local counterparty under
the derivatives data reporting rules of Manitoba, Ontario or
Québec, or is a local counterparty under paragraph (a) or (c) of
the definition of location counterparty in the derivatives data
reporting rules of any other jurisdiction of Canada, state all
such jurisdictions.


Y

(If available)





A. Common

Data



These fields are required to be reported for all derivatives even
if the

information may be entered in an Additional Asset Information
field below.

A field is not required to be reported if the unique product
identifier

adequately describes the data required in that field.





Unique product identifier


Unique product identification code based on the taxonomy of the
product.

N



Contract or instrument type


The name of the contract or instrument type (e.g., swap, swaption,
forward, option, basis swap, index swap, basket swap).

Y



Underlying asset identifier 1


The unique identifier of the asset referenced in the derivative.

Y



Underlying asset identifier 2


The unique identifier of the second asset referenced in the
derivative, if more than one.

If more than two assets identified in the derivative, report the
unique identifiers for those additional underlying assets.


Y


Asset class

Major asset class of the product (e.g., interest rate, credit,
commodity, foreign exchange, equity).


Y

(If available)




Effective date or start date


The date the derivative becomes effective or starts.

Y



Maturity, termination or end date


The date the derivative expires.

Y



Payment frequency or dates


The dates or frequency the derivative requires payments to be made
(e.g., quarterly, monthly).

Y



Reset frequency or dates


The dates or frequency at which the price resets (e.g., quarterly,
semi-annually, annually).

Y



Day count convention


Factor used to calculate the payments (e.g., 30/360, actual/360).

Y


Delivery type

State whether derivative is settled physically or in cash.

Y


Price 1

The price, rate, yield, spread, coupon or similar characteristic
of the derivative. This must not include any premiums such as
commissions, collateral premiums or accrued interest.

Y


Price 2

The price, rate, yield, spread, coupon or similar characteristic
of the derivative. This must not include any premiums such as
commissions, collateral premiums or accrued interest.

Y



Price notation type 1


The manner in which the price is expressed (e.g., percentage,
basis points).

Y



Price notation type 2


The manner in which the price is expressed (e.g., percentage,
basis points).

Y


Price multiplier

The number of units of the underlying reference entity represented
by 1 unit of the derivative.


Y

(If available)




Notional amount leg 1


Total notional amount(s) of leg 1 of the derivative.

Y



Notional amount leg 2


Total notional amount(s) of leg 2 of the derivative.

Y


Currency leg 1

Currency of leg 1.

Y


Currency leg 2

Currency of leg 2.

Y



Settlement currency


The currency used to determine the cash settlement amount.

Y


Up-front payment

Amount of any up-front payment.

N



Currency or currencies of up-front payment


The currency or currencies in which any up-front payment is made
by one counterparty to another.

N


Embedded option

State whether the option is an embedded option.


Y

(If available)





B. Additional

Asset

Information



These fields are required to be reported for the respective types
of derivatives

set out below, even if the information is entered in a Common Data
field above.





i) Interest rate

derivatives





Fixed rate leg 1

The rate used to determine the payment amount for leg 1 of the
derivative.

Y


Fixed rate leg 2

The rate used to determine the payment amount for leg 2 of the
derivative.

Y



Floating rate leg 1


The floating rate used to determine the payment amount for leg 1
of the derivative.

Y



Floating rate leg 2


The floating rate used to determine the payment amount for leg 2
of the derivative.

Y



Fixed rate day count convention


Factor used to calculate the fixed payer payments (e.g., 30/360,
actual/360).

Y



Fixed leg payment frequency or dates


Frequency or dates of payments for the fixed rate leg of the
derivative (e.g., quarterly, semi-annually, annually).

Y



Floating leg payment frequency or dates


Frequency or dates of payments for the floating rate leg of the
derivative (e.g., quarterly, semi-annually, annually).

Y



Floating rate reset frequency or dates


The dates or frequency at which the floating leg of the derivative
resets (e.g., quarterly, semi-annually, annually).

Y




ii) Currency

derivatives





Exchange rate

Contractual rate(s) of exchange of the currencies.

Y




iii) Commodity

derivatives





Sub-asset class

Specific information to identify the type of commodity derivative
(e.g., Agriculture, Power, Oil, Natural Gas, Freights, Metals,
Index, Environmental, Exotic).

Y


Quantity

Total quantity in the unit of measure of an underlying commodity.

Y


Unit of measure

Unit of measure for the quantity of each side of the derivative
(e.g., barrels, bushels).

Y


Grade

Grade of product being delivered (e.g., grade of oil).

Y


Delivery point

The delivery location.

N


Load type

For power, load profile for the delivery.

Y


Transmission days

For power, the delivery days of the week.

Y



Transmission duration


For power, the hours of day transmission starts and ends.

Y



C. Options


These fields are required to be reported for options derivatives,
even if the information

is entered in a Common Data field above.




Option exercise date


The date(s) on which the option may be exercised.

Y


Option premium

Fixed premium paid by the buyer to the seller.

Y



Strike price

(cap/floor rate)


The strike price of the option.

Y


Option style

State whether the option can be exercised on a fixed date or
anytime during the life of the derivative (e.g., American,
European, Bermudan, Asian).

Y


Option type
Put, call.
Y



D. Event Data




Action

Describes the type of event to the derivative (e.g., new
transaction, modification or cancellation of existing derivative).

N



Execution timestamp


The time and date of execution of a transaction, including a
novation, expressed using Coordinated Universal Time (UTC).


Y

(If available)




Post-transaction events


State whether the report results from a post-transaction service
(e.g., compression, reconciliation) or from a life-cycle event
(e.g., amendment).

N



Reporting timestamp


The time and date the derivative was submitted to the trade
repository, expressed using UTC.

N




E. Valuation

Data



These fields are required to be reported on a continuing basis for
all reported

derivatives, including reported pre-existing derivatives.




Value of derivative calculated by the reporting counterparty


Mark-to-market valuation or mark-to-model valuation of the
derivative.

N



Valuation currency


State the currency used when reporting the value of the
derivative.

N


Valuation date

Date of the latest mark-to-market or mark-to-model valuation.

N




F. Other

Details





Other details

Where the terms of the derivative cannot be effectively reported
in the above prescribed fields, provide any additional information
that may be necessary.


Y

(If applicable)


