

National Instrument 45-110


Start-up Crowdfunding Registration

and Prospectus Exemptions



Securities Act



4.2

Provide the name of the person involved and details of the time,
nature and the outcome of the proceedings for each of the persons
listed under item 4.1 and the issuer who, as the case may be:





(a)

has ever pleaded guilty to or been found guilty of






(i)

a summary conviction or indictable offence under the
Criminal Code
(Canada),






(ii)

a quasi-criminal offence in any jurisdiction of Canada or a
foreign jurisdiction,






(iii)

a misdemeanor or felony under the criminal legislation of the
United States of America, or any state or territory therein, or






(iv)

an offence under the criminal legislation of any other foreign
jurisdiction,





(b)

is or has been the subject of an order (cease trade or otherwise),
judgment, decree, sanction, or administrative penalty imposed by,
or has entered into a settlement agreement with, a government
agency, administrative agency, self-regulatory organization, civil
court, or administrative court of Canada or a foreign jurisdiction
in the last 10 years related to






(i)

the person's involvement in any securities, insurance or banking
activity, or






(ii)

a claim based in whole or in part on fraud, theft, deceit,
misrepresentation, conspiracy, breach of trust, breach of
fiduciary duty, insider trading, unregistered trading, illegal
distributions, failure to disclose material facts or changes, or
allegations of similar conduct,





(c)

is or has been the subject of an order, judgment, decree, sanction
or administrative penalty imposed by a discipline committee,
professional order or administrative court of Canada or a foreign
jurisdiction in the last ten years related to any professional
misconduct,





(d)

is or has ever been the subject of a bankruptcy or insolvency
proceeding, or





(e)

is a director, officer, founder or control person of a person or
company that is or has been subject to a proceeding described in
paragraph (a), (b), (c) or (d) above.





Instruction: A quasi-criminal offence includes an offence under
the Income Tax Act (Canada), the Immigration and Refugee
Protection Act (Canada) or the tax, immigration, drugs,
firearms, money laundering or securities legislation of any
province or territory of Canada or foreign jurisdiction.






Item 5: CROWDFUNDING DISTRIBUTION



5.1

Provide the name of the funding portal the issuer is using to
conduct its crowdfunding distribution. If the issuer is using a
funding portal that is operated by a registered dealer, provide
the name of the registered dealer.





Instruction: This offering document must not be posted on more
than one funding portal.




5.2

Indicate all the jurisdictions (Canadian provinces and
territories) where the issuer intends to raise funds and make this
offering document available.


