

National Instrument 41-101
General Prospectus Requirements


Securities Act





YES


NO




A.



CURRENT PROCEEDINGS BY SECURITIES REGULATORY AUTHORITY OR SELF
REGULATORY ENTITY. Are you now, in any Canadian or foreign
jurisdiction, the subject of:







(i) a notice of hearing or similar notice issued by an SRA or SRE?






(ii) a proceeding of or, to your knowledge, an investigation by,
an SRA or SRE?






(iii) settlement discussions or negotiations for settlement of any
nature or kind whatsoever with an SRA or SRE?







YES


NO




B.



PRIOR PROCEEDINGS BY SECURITIES REGULATORY AUTHORITY OR SELF
REGULATORY ENTITY. Have you
ever
:







(i) been reprimanded, suspended, fined, been the subject of an
administrative penalty, or been the subject of any proceedings of
any kind whatsoever, in any Canadian or foreign jurisdiction, by
an SRA or SRE?






(ii) had a registration or licence for the trading of securities,
exchange or commodity futures contracts, real estate, insurance or
mutual fund products cancelled, refused, restricted or suspended
by an SRA or SRE?






(iii) been prohibited or disqualified by an SRA or SRE under
securities, corporate or any other legislation from acting as a
director or officer of a reporting issuer or been prohibited or
restricted by an SRA or SRE from acting as a director, officer or
employee of, or an agent or consultant to, a reporting issuer?






(iv) had a cease trading or similar order issued against you or an
order issued against you by an SRA or SRE that denied you the
right to use any statutory prospectus or registration exemption?






(v) had any other proceeding of any kind taken against you by an
SRA or SRE?






C.


SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT(S)






Have you ever entered into a settlement agreement with an SRA,
SRE, attorney general or comparable official or body, in any
Canadian or foreign jurisdiction, in a matter that involved actual
or alleged fraud, theft, deceit, misrepresentation, conspiracy,
breach of trust, breach of fiduciary duty, insider trading,
unregistered trading in securities or exchange or commodity
futures contracts, illegal distributions, failure to disclose
material facts or changes or similar conduct, or any other
settlement agreement with respect to any other violation of
securities legislation in a Canadian or foreign jurisdiction or
the rules, by-laws or policies of any SRE?






D.



To the best of your knowledge, are you now or have you ever been
a director, officer, promoter, insider, or control person of an
issuer at the time of such event, in any Canadian or foreign
jurisdiction, for which a securities regulatory authority or
self regulatory entity has:







(i) refused, restricted, suspended or cancelled the registration
or licensing of an issuer to trade securities, exchange or
commodity futures contracts, or to sell or trade real estate,
insurance or mutual fund products?






(ii) issued a cease trade or similar order or imposed an
administrative penalty of any nature or kind whatsoever against
the issuer, other than an order for failure to file financial
statements that was revoked within 30 days of its issuance?






(iii) refused a receipt for a prospectus or other offering
document, denied any application for listing or quotation or any
other similar application, or issued an order that denied the
issuer the right to use any statutory prospectus or registration
exemptions?






(iv) issued a notice of hearing, notice as to a proceeding or
similar notice against the issuer?






(v) commenced any other proceeding of any kind against the issuer,
including a trading halt, suspension or delisting of the issuer,
in connection with an alleged or actual contravention of an SRA's
or SRE's rules, regulations, policies or other requirements, but
excluding halts imposed (i) in the normal course for proper
dissemination of information, or (ii) pursuant to a business
combination, reverse takeover or similar transaction involving the
issuer that is regulated by an SRE or SRA, including a qualifying
transaction, reverse takeover or change of business involving the
issuer (as those terms are defined in the TSX Venture Corporate
Finance Manual as amended from time to time)?






(vi) entered into a settlement agreement with the issuer in a
matter that involved actual or alleged fraud, theft, deceit,
misrepresentation, conspiracy, breach of trust, breach of
fiduciary duty, insider trading, unregistered trading in
securities or exchange or commodity futures contracts, illegal
distributions, failure to disclose material facts or changes or
similar conduct by the issuer, or any other violation of
securities legislation or the rules, by-laws or policies of an
SRE?




