

National Instrument 45-110


Start-up Crowdfunding Registration

and Prospectus Exemptions



Securities Act



10.

Country of citizenship:
_______________________________________________________



11.

Are you currently or have you ever been registered or licensed in
any capacity with any Canadian securities regulatory authority or
regulator?





Yes

No






If yes, provide your licence or registration type, the securities
regulatory authority or regulator, and the start date and ending
date, if applicable.



12.

Have you ever been dismissed for cause by an employer from a
position following allegations that you





(a)

violated any statutes, regulations, rules or standards of conduct,





(b)

failed to appropriately supervise compliance with any statutes,
regulations, rules or standards of conduct, or





(c)

committed fraud or the wrongful taking of property, including, for
greater certainty, theft?





Yes

No






If yes, provide all relevant details in an attachment signed and
dated by the authorized individual certifying this form that
includes the circumstances, relevant dates, names of the parties
involved and final disposition, if a final disposition has been
made.




CRIMINAL DISCLOSURE



13.

Have you ever been found guilty, pleaded no contest to or been
granted an absolute or conditional discharge from





(a)

a summary conviction or indictable offence under the
Criminal Code
(Canada),





(b)

a quasi-criminal offence in any jurisdiction of Canada or a
foreign jurisdiction,





(c)

a misdemeanour or felony under the criminal legislation of the
United States of America, or any state or territory therein, or





(d)

an offence under the criminal legislation of any other foreign
jurisdiction?





Yes

No






If yes, provide all relevant details in an attachment signed and
dated by the authorized individual certifying this form that
includes the circumstances, relevant dates, names of the parties
involved and final disposition, if a final disposition has been
made.





Instructions: A quasi-criminal offence includes an offence under
the Income Tax Act (Canada), the Immigration and Refugee
Protection Act (Canada) or the tax, immigration, drugs,
firearms, money laundering or securities legislation of any
province or territory of Canada or of a foreign jurisdiction.




14.

Are there any outstanding or stayed charges against you alleging a
criminal offence that was committed?





Yes

No






If yes, provide all relevant details in an attachment signed and
dated by the authorized individual certifying this form that
includes the circumstances, relevant dates, names of the parties
involved and final disposition, if a final disposition has been
made.



15.

To the best of your knowledge, are there any outstanding or stayed
charges against any person or company of which you were, at the
time the criminal offence was alleged to have taken place, a
founder, director, officer or control person?





Yes

No






If yes, provide all relevant details in an attachment signed and
dated by the authorized individual certifying this form that
includes the circumstances, relevant dates, names of the parties
involved and final disposition, if a final disposition has been
made.



16.

To the best of your knowledge, has any person or company of which
you were a founder, or during the period when you were a director,
officer or control person, ever been found guilty, pleaded no
contest to or been granted an absolute or conditional discharge
from a criminal offence that was committed?





Yes

No






If yes, provide all relevant details in an attachment signed and
dated by the authorized individual certifying this form that
includes the circumstances, relevant dates, names of the parties
involved and final disposition, if a final disposition has been
made.




CIVIL DISCLOSURE



17.

Have you or a person or company of which you are or were a
founder, director, officer or control person been the subject of
an order (cease trade or otherwise), judgment, decree, sanction,
or administrative penalty imposed by, or entered into a settlement
agreement with, a government agency, administrative agency,
self-regulatory organization, civil court, or administrative court
of Canada or a foreign jurisdiction in the last 10 years related
to a claim based in whole or in part on fraud, theft, deceit,
misrepresentation, conspiracy, breach of trust, breach of
fiduciary duty, insider trading, unregistered trading, illegal
distributions, failure to disclose material facts or changes, or
allegations of similar conduct in Canada or a foreign jurisdiction
related to your involvement in any type of securities,
derivatives, insurance or banking activity?





Yes

No






If yes, provide all relevant details in an attachment signed and
dated by the authorized individual certifying this form that
includes the circumstances, relevant dates, names of the parties
involved and final disposition, if a final disposition has been
made.



18.

Are there currently any outstanding civil actions alleging fraud,
theft, deceit, misrepresentation, or similar misconduct against
you or an entity, person or company of which you are or were a
founder, director, officer or control person?





Yes

No






If yes, provide all relevant details in an attachment signed and
dated by the authorized individual certifying this form that
includes the circumstances, relevant dates, names of the parties
involved and final disposition, if a final disposition has been
made.




COLLECTION AND USE OF PERSONAL INFORMATION




The personal information required under this form is collected,
used and disclosed by the securities regulatory authority or,
where applicable, the regulator of the jurisdiction under the
authority granted in securities legislation for the purposes of
the administration and enforcement of the securities legislation.




By submitting this form, you consent to the collection, use and
disclosure of this personal information by the securities
regulatory authority or regulator of each jurisdiction in which
this form is submitted and any police records, records from other
government or non-governmental regulators or self-regulatory
organizations, credit records and employment records about you
that the securities regulatory authority or regulator may need to
determine the completeness of the information submitted in this
form and compliance with the conditions of the start-up
crowdfunding registration and prospectus exemptions. The
securities regulatory authority or regulator may contact
government and private bodies or agencies, individuals,
corporations and other organizations for information about you.




If you have any questions about the collection and use of this
information, contact the securities regulatory authority or
regulator of any jurisdiction in which this form is submitted.
Contact information is listed at the end of this form.




CERTIFICATION




By submitting this form, I






• certify that the statements made in this form, including any
attachments, are true and complete, and






• agree to be subject to the securities legislation of each
jurisdiction of Canada where I have submitted this form. This
includes the jurisdiction of any tribunals or any proceedings that
relate to my activities as a founder, director, officer or control
person of a funding portal under applicable securities
legislation.


