





View Complete Statute



Land Title Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 250



Part 7 — Descriptions and Plans



Division 1 — General





Description of land




58

(1)


The registrar may allow or require the use of a method of describing
land that is authorized by this Act and that will, in the registrar's
opinion, best ensure brevity, accuracy and uniformity in the records.




(2)

Descriptions of land in accordance with this Act are sufficient for
every transaction, dealing, instrument or proceeding relating to land,
whether in or out of the land title office, and whether under this Act
or any other Act where a description of land is required.




(3)

The registrar may assign to a parcel of land a number, known as the
permanent parcel identifier, for the purpose of facilitating parcel
identification in records and instruments.




(4)

The registrar may require as part of a description of land,




(a)

the permanent parcel identifier that has been assigned by the
registrar under subsection (3),




(b)

computer keying instructions respecting the parcel, and




(c)

other information that the director prescribes.






Public official plan




59

(1)


A copy of a public official plan may be deposited in the land title
office by the Surveyor General and must be deposited by the Surveyor
General at the request of the registrar.




(2)

A plan deposited under subsection (1) must be certified by the
Surveyor General as a true copy of the original.






Description in Crown grant




60


Registration of the title to land must, in the first instance, be
according to the description of the land shown




(a)

in the Crown grant, or




(b)

if there is no Crown grant, in another instrument that is satisfactory
to the registrar.






Registration of title to Esquimalt and Nanaimo Railway Company land




61


The registration of title to land within the Esquimalt and Nanaimo
Railway Company's land grant, the title to which is registered in the
land title office at Victoria in Absolute Fees Book, Volume 9,
Folio 693, No. 7434A, alienated by the Esquimalt and Nanaimo
Railway Company, must, in the first instance, be according to the
description and parcel boundaries specified by the Esquimalt and
Nanaimo Railway Company in its original return pertaining to
alienation of that land made under the

Taxation (Rural Area) Act

and the

Esquimalt and Nanaimo Railway Belt Tax Act

, unless a deviation in the description and parcel boundaries is
approved by the registrar.






Subsequent descriptions of land




62


A description of land made after a description referred to in section
60 or 61 must be in accordance with one of the methods permitted by
this Part.






Description by parcels shown on subdivision plan




63

(1)


A parcel shown on a deposited subdivision plan may be described in the
register either




(a)

as a lettered or numbered lot or block of the previously registered
parcel dealt with by the plan, or




(b)

as a lot or block as shown on the plan without any reference to the
former description of the land dealt with by the plan.




(2)

In all cases the number of the plan must be given in the register.






Substitution for metes and bounds or abbreviated description




64

(1)


If the registrar accepts a metes and bounds description or an
abbreviated description of a new parcel, with or without an
explanatory or reference plan, the registrar may assign a
distinguishing letter to the parcel.




(2)

The description referred to in subsection (1), together with the
distinguishing letter, may be endorsed in the register at the time of
the first registration of indefeasible title to the parcel, but in all
subsequent indefeasible titles, the description, unless the registrar
otherwise directs, must be omitted, and in the case of a metes and
bounds description, the parcel may be sufficiently described by an
abbreviated description.




(3)

If the registrar has, under subsection (1), accepted a description
accompanied by an explanatory or reference plan, the registrar may
require the distinguishing letter to be marked on the plan.






Assignment of distinguishing letter to remainder




65


If a distinguishing letter is assigned to a newly created parcel, the
registrar may




(a)

assign another distinguishing letter to the remainder of the
previously registered parcel of which the newly created parcel forms
part, or




(b)

describe the remainder by excepting the newly created parcel.






Assignment of distinguishing letter by registrar




66

(1)


If, in the opinion of the registrar, convenience of reference will be
served, the registrar may assign to a parcel described in an
indefeasible title a distinguishing letter.




(2)

The letter assigned under subsection (1) must be endorsed on the
register.




(3)

After a letter is assigned under subsection (1), the parcel may be
sufficiently described by an abbreviated description consisting of the
distinguishing letter, together with an appropriate reference to




(a)

the instrument creating the parcel, and




(b)

the previously registered parcel of which the new parcel forms a part.




(4)

If the existing indefeasible title to the parcel to which a
distinguishing letter has been assigned includes other land, the
registrar may register one or more new indefeasible titles in respect
of that land.




(5)

If a letter is assigned or an indefeasible title is registered under
this section, the registrar must so advise the registered owner and
the taxing authority.






Requirements as to subdivision and reference plans




67


A plan tendered for deposit, other than an explanatory plan or sketch
plan, must comply with the following requirements:




(a)

the plan must be based on a survey made by a British Columbia land
surveyor;




(b)

the plan must comply with the rules respecting surveys and plans made
under section 385 (5) for the purposes of this section;




(c)

the plan must have a title that includes the legal description, in
accordance with the register, of the land subdivided and indicate
whether all or part of that land is being subdivided;




(d) to (r)

[Repealed 2003-66-37.]




(s)

[Repealed 2023-10-451.]




(t)

the correctness of the survey and plan must be verified by the
surveyor by the surveyor's statement in the form approved by the
director.






Posting plan




68

(1)


If an angle of a parcel is redefined on the ground by a post or
monument, or if an angle or a parcel described by




(a)

metes and bounds,




(b)

an abbreviated description, or




(c)

an explanatory plan,


is defined on the ground by a post or monument, the redefinition or
definition must be




(d)

made by a British Columbia land surveyor, and




(e)

shown on a posting plan.




(2)

The surveyor referred to in subsection (1) must certify the posting
plan as correct and file it in the land title office within 2 months
after the completion of the redefinition or definition.




(3)

On receiving a posting plan, the registrar must




(a)

assign a serial number to the plan, and




(b)

make a note of the number in the register.




(4)

The acceptance by the registrar of a posting plan for filing is not a
determination by the registrar as to the location of the boundaries of
the parcel posted.




(5)

A posting plan must comply with the rules respecting surveys and plans
made under section 385 (5) for the purposes of this section.




(6)

This section does not apply to a posting plan filed under
section 69.






Block outline survey




69

(1)


Before a survey is made, the Surveyor General, subject to conditions
the Surveyor General considers necessary, may allow the survey to be
posted by setting, at proper intervals, monuments of a specified
permanent character.




(2)

The monuments with the information on the plan showing their location
is the only posting of the survey required.




(3)

As an alternative to the procedure under subsection (1), the Surveyor
General, subject to conditions the Surveyor General may consider
necessary, may allow a block outline posting of the survey to be made
by setting key monuments at specified locations.




(4)

The information on the plan showing the relationship of the monuments
to the boundaries shown on the plan is evidence of the boundaries
until a complete and final posting of the boundaries is made.




(5)

The Surveyor General must require the surveyor to complete the final
posting referred to in subsection (4) within a specified period.




(6)

The surveyor who made the block outline survey must be the same person
to make a final posting.




(7)

A posting plan must be filed before the termination of the time limit
imposed under subsection (5) and, after filing the posting is, in the
absence of evidence to the contrary, proof of the boundaries.




(8)

The posting plan referred to in subsection (7) must




(a)

comply with all the requirements of this Act for a subdivision or
reference plan, except




(i)

the signature of the owner, and




(ii)

the approval of the approving officer, and




(b)

conform in all respects with the block outline plan, unless a
departure from it is authorized by the Surveyor General.




(9)

On receiving the posting plan, the registrar must,




(a)

if the posting plan refers only to one block outline plan, assign it
the same number as that assigned to the block outline plan, and




(b)

if the posting plan refers to more than one block outline plan, assign
a serial number to it in the manner specified by the director.




(10)

In the event of the death or inability of the surveyor referred to in
subsection (6) to make the final posting, the Surveyor General may
appoint another British Columbia land surveyor to carry out the final
posting.




(11)

An application to the Surveyor General under subsection (3) must be
accompanied by the fees payable under this Act.






Explanatory plan of block or lot in Esquimalt and Nanaimo Railway
Company grant




70

(1)


An explanatory plan of an unsurveyed area designated as a block in an
original grant from the Esquimalt and Nanaimo Railway Company and
completely surrounded by surveyed parcels, the titles to which are
registered under this Act, may be considered to be the plan of survey
of that area.




(2)

If the unsurveyed area referred to in subsection (1) and shown on the
explanatory plan is not completely surrounded by surveyed parcels, the
boundaries of the area adjoining the unsurveyed land must be run or
traversed in accordance with the provisions of this Act and the rules
made under section 385 (5), and the explanatory plan is the plan of
survey of the area.




(3)

An explanatory plan described in subsection (1) or (2) must not be
received on deposit in the land title office unless it has first been
proved by the Surveyor General who may, in the Surveyor General's
discretion, approve or reject the plan.




(4)

An application to the Surveyor General under subsection (3) must be
accompanied by the fees payable under this Act.






Composite plans




71

(1)


If the registrar considers it necessary or convenient for registration
or administrative purposes, the registrar may allow or require
composite plans to be prepared from the deposited plans or other
records in the land title office.




(2)

The Surveyor General must assist in the preparation of the composite
plans whenever the service can be provided by the Surveyor General's
office.




(3)

A composite plan may contain any number of contiguous parcels.




(4)

The parcels shown on the composite plans may be designated by their
original distinguishing letters, if any, or the registrar may assign
on the plan new distinguishing letters to the parcels.




(5)

The registrar must




(a)

sign and date the plan,




(b)

assign to it a deposit number, and




(c)

make a reference to it in the records.




(5.1)

Subsection (5) does not apply to a plan in electronic format.




(6)

A composite plan deposited under this section must, after the date of
deposit, for all purposes and for all subsequent dealings with a
parcel shown on it, be referred to in the same manner as a subdivision
plan deposited under this Act.






When composite plan not to be deposited




72

(1)


A composite plan must not be deposited under section 71 if the
deposited plans and other records from which the composite plan is
compiled reveal any discrepancy or uncertainty in boundaries unless
the several owners of the parcels affected sign the composite plan to
evidence their consents to the boundaries shown on the composite plan.




(2)

All signatures required by subsection (1) must be witnessed by at
least one person who is 16 years of age or older and who is not an
owner of a parcel affected by the plan, and the address and occupation
of each witness must be stated on the plan.




Division 2 — Subdivision of Land





Restrictions on subdivision




73

(1)


Except on compliance with this Part, a person must not subdivide land
into smaller parcels than those of which the person is the owner for
the purpose of




(a)

transferring it, or




(b)

leasing it, or agreeing to lease it, for life or for a term exceeding
3 years.




(2)

Except on compliance with this Part, a person must not subdivide land
for the purpose of a mortgage or other dealing that may be registered
under this Act as a charge if the estate, right or interest conferred
on the transferee, mortgagee or other party would entitle the person
in law or equity under any circumstances to demand or exercise the
right to acquire or transfer the fee simple.




(3)

Subsection (1) does not apply to a subdivision for the purpose of
leasing a building or part of a building.




(4)

A person must not grant an undivided fractional interest in a freehold
estate in land or a right to purchase an undivided fractional interest
in a freehold estate in land if the estate that is granted to or that
may be purchased by the grantee is




(a)

a fee simple estate on condition subsequent, or




(b)

a determinable fee simple estate


that is or may be defeated, determined or otherwise cut short on the
failure of the grantee to observe a condition or to perform an
obligation relating to a right to occupy an area less than the entire
parcel of the land.




(5)

Subsection (4) does not apply to land if an indefeasible title to or a
right to purchase an undivided fractional interest in




(a)

a fee simple estate on condition subsequent in the land of the kind
described in subsection (4), or




(b)

a determinable fee simple estate in the land of the kind described in
subsection (4)


was registered before May 30, 1994.




(6)

An instrument executed by a person in contravention of this section
does not confer on the party claiming under it a right to registration
of the instrument or a part of it.






Lease of part of a parcel of land enforceable




73.1

(1)


A lease or an agreement for lease of a part of a parcel of land is not
unenforceable between the parties to the lease or agreement for lease
by reason only that




(a)

the lease or agreement for lease does not comply with this Part, or




(b)

an application for the registration of the lease or agreement for
lease may be refused or rejected.




(2)

This section does not apply to an airport lease, as defined in section
41 of the

Municipalities Enabling and Validating Act (No. 2)

.






Method of defining new parcel




74


Except as otherwise provided in section 99, a new parcel created by
subdivision or a parcel for which an indefeasible title is sought must
be defined by a subdivision plan.






Requirements for subdivisions




75

(1)


A subdivision must comply with the following, and all other,
requirements in this Part:




(a)

to the extent of the owner's control, there must be a sufficient
highway to provide necessary and reasonable access




(i)

to all new parcels, and




(ii)

through the land subdivided to land lying beyond or around the
subdivided land;




(b)

all highways provided for in a subdivision plan or otherwise legally
established on lands adjoining, lying beyond or around the land
subdivided must be continued without unnecessary jogs and must be
cleared, drained, constructed and surfaced to the approving officer's
satisfaction, or unless, in circumstances the approving officer
considers proper, security is provided in an amount and in a form
acceptable to the approving officer;




(c)

if the land subdivided borders on




(i)

a body of water, the bed of which is owned by the Crown,




(ii)

the boundary of a strip of land established as the boundary of a water
reservoir, where the strip of land and reservoir are owned by the
Crown, or




(iii)

a strip of Crown land 20 m or less in width contiguous to a natural
boundary as defined in the

Land Act

,


access must be given by highways 20 m wide to the body of water and to
the strips at distances not greater than 200 m between centre
lines, or, in a rural area where the parcels into which the land is
subdivided all exceed 0.5 ha, at distances not greater than
400 m between centre lines;




(d)

if the land subdivided borders on a body of water, the bed of which is
owned by a person other than the Crown and,




(i)

in the case of a lake or pond, the surface of the body of water at
mean annual high water is at least 1.5 ha, and the mean depth at
mean annual high water is at least 0.6 m, or




(ii)

in the case of a river, creek or watercourse, the average width at
mean annual high water is at least 6 m and the average depth at
mean annual high water is at least 0.6 m,


access must be given by highways 20 m wide to the body of water and to
the strips at distances not greater than 200 m between centre lines,
or, in a rural area where the parcels into which the land is
subdivided all exceed 0.5 ha, at distances not greater than
400 m between centre lines;




(e)

suitable lanes must be provided in continuation of existing lanes and
in every case where lanes are considered necessary by the approving
officer.




(2)

As an exception, subsection (1) (d) (i) does not apply to a reservoir
or pond referred to in paragraph (d) of that subsection if the
reservoir or pond is used for the purpose of domestic or industrial
water supply and its bed is owned by a public body other than the
Crown.




(3)

In considering the sufficiency of a highway shown on a plan and to be
dedicated to the Crown, the approving officer must consider the
following:




(a)

the location and width of the highway;




(b)

the suitability of the highway in relation to the existing use of the
subdivided land and the use intended by the subdivision;




(c)

the configuration of the land subdivided;




(d)

the relation of the highway to be dedicated to an existing main
highway or approach, whether by land or water, and local
circumstances;




(e)

on the question of width, the extent of the use, present and future,
to which the highway may be put;




(f)

the likely or possible role of the highway in a future highway network
serving the area in which the subdivided land is located.






Relief from requirements established by section 75




76

(1)


In circumstances prescribed under subsection (2), an approving officer
may grant relief from compliance with all or part of the provisions of
section 75 (1) (a) or (b).




(2)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations prescribing
circumstances for the purposes of subsection (1), which may be
different for different areas.




(3)

On receiving an application made in accordance with subsection (4),
the minister charged with the administration of the

Transportation Act

may grant relief from strict compliance with a requirement under
section 75 (1) (c) or (d).




(4)

An application under subsection (3) must be supported by an affidavit
and, if the approving officer is a municipal, regional district,
islands trust or treaty first nation approving officer appointed under
section 77, 77.1 or 77.21 or is the Nisg̱a'a approving officer
appointed under section 77.3, by the written recommendation of
the approving officer.




(5)

Relief granted under subsection (3) may be evidenced by a certificate
endorsed on the plan and signed by the minister charged with the
administration of the

Transportation Act

or by a designated highways official.




Division 3 — Appointment, Powers and Duties of Approving Officers





Appointment of municipal approving officers




77

(1)


For land within a municipality, the municipal council must appoint a
person as an approving officer.




(2)

An approving officer appointed under this section must be




(a)

the municipal engineer,




(b)

the chief planning officer,




(c)

some other employee of the municipality appointed by the municipal
council, or




(d)

a person who is under contract with the municipality.






Appointment of regional district and islands trust approving officers




77.1

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), the Lieutenant Governor in Council may, by
order, do one or more of the following:




(a)

authorize a regional district board to appoint a person as an
approving officer for the rural area of the regional district;




(b)

authorize the trust council under the

Islands Trust Act

to appoint a person as an approving officer for the rural area of the
trust area under that Act;




(c)

if an order under paragraph (a) or (b) applies, provide that
section 83.1 does not apply in relation to the regional district
or trust area.




(2)

An order under subsection (1) (a) or (b) must be requested by
resolution of the regional district board or trust council, as
applicable, and must be recommended by the minister charged with the
administration of the

Transportation Act

.




(3)

An order under subsection (1) (a) or (b) may include one or more of
the following:




(a)

requirements that must be met before the authorization becomes
effective;




(b)

conditions relating to the appointment of the approving officer under
this section;




(c)

provisions respecting the transition to the exercise of authority by
an approving officer appointed under this section including, without
limiting this, exceptions and modifications respecting how
applications that are pending at the time the authorization becomes
effective are to be dealt with.




(4)

If a regional district board or the trust council is authorized under
subsection (1), it must appoint an approving officer for the rural
area of its jurisdiction.




(5)

An approving officer appointed under this section must be




(a)

the regional district or trust area engineer,




(b)

the chief planning officer,




(c)

some other employee of the regional district or trust council
appointed by the board or council, as applicable, or




(d)

a person who is under contract with the regional district or trust
council.






Provincial approving officers




77.2

(1)


If an approving officer is not appointed under section 77.1 for a
rural area, the approving officers for the area are




(a)

the deputy minister to the minister charged with the administration of
the

Transportation Act

, and




(b)

approving officers appointed under subsection (2).




(2)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may appoint a person as an
approving officer for a rural area referred to in subsection (1).






Appointment of treaty first nation approving officers




77.21

(1)


A treaty first nation must appoint an approving officer for its treaty
lands.




(2)

An approving officer appointed under subsection (1) must be




(a)

an official or employee of the treaty first nation, or




(b)

a person who is under contract with the treaty first nation.




(3)

Sections 77.1 and 77.2 do not apply to the treaty lands of a treaty
first nation.






Nisg̱a'a approving officer




77.3

(1)


The Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government must appoint an approving officer for
Nisg̱a'a Lands.




(2)

The approving officer appointed under subsection (1) must be




(a)

an official of the Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government, or




(b)

a person who is employed by or under contract with the Nisg̱a'a Nation.




(3)

The approving officer appointed under subsection (1) may exercise the
approving officer's powers in relation to all Nisg̱a'a Lands, including
Nisg̱a'a Village Lands.




(4)

Sections 77.1 and 77.2 do not apply to Nisg̱a'a Lands.






Certain designations prohibited on subdivision plans




78


An approving officer must not approve, and the registrar must not
accept for deposit, a plan of subdivision that designates the land
subdivided as a municipality, townsite or port, or as a separate part
of, or an addition to, a municipality, townsite or port.






Repealed




79


[Repealed 1997-25-33.]






Controlled access highways




80


If a plan of subdivision affects land adjacent to a controlled access
highway, as designated under section 48 of the

Transportation Act

,




(a)

the approving officer must not approve the plan if it does not conform
to any applicable regulations under the

Transportation Act

, and




(b)

an approving officer appointed under section 77, 77.1 or 77.21 must
not approve the plan unless it has first been approved by the minister
charged with the administration of the

Transportation Act

or a designated highways official.






Land in improvement districts




81


If a plan of subdivision affects land located in an improvement
district under the

Local Government Act

, within 7 days after the plan is received by the approving officer
for approval, the approving officer must notify the board of trustees
of the improvement district.






Repealed




82


[Repealed 2003-72-16.]




Division 4 — Approval of Subdivision Plans





Tender of plan for examination and approval




83

(1)


A subdivision plan must be tendered for examination and approval by
the approving officer as follows:




(a)

if the land affected is within a municipality, to the designated
municipal officer;




(b)

if the land affected is in the rural area of a regional district
authorized to appoint an approving officer under section 77.1, to
the designated regional district officer;




(c)

if the land affected is in the rural area of the trust area under the

Islands Trust Act

and the trust council is authorized to appoint an approving officer
under section 77.1, to the secretary of the trust council;




(d)

in other cases, to the district highways manager of the Ministry of
Transportation.




(2)

The subdivision plan must be accompanied by the following:




(a)

the applicable fees established under section 462 (1) (f) of the

Local Government Act

or under section 292 (1) (h) of the

Vancouver Charter

or prescribed under subsection (3) of this section;




(b)

a certificate




(i)

that all taxes assessed on the subdivided land have been paid, and




(ii)

if local service taxes are payable by instalments, that all
instalments owing at the date of the certificate have been paid;




(c)

if the approving officer considers that there is reason to anticipate
that the land may be resubdivided and requires this information, a
sketch showing that the parcels into which the land is subdivided can
conveniently be further subdivided into smaller parcels;




(d)

if the approving officer requires this information, profiles of every
new highway shown on the plan and such necessary topographical details
as may indicate engineering problems to be dealt with in opening up
the highways, including environmental impact or planning studies.




(3)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may, by regulation, prescribe fees
for subdivision plan examination by a Provincial approving officer,
which may vary with the number, size and type of parcels involved in
the proposed subdivision.






Referral to designated highways official




83.1

(1)


Unless the application of this section is excepted by order under
section 77.1 (1) (c), a regional district or islands trust approving
officer who receives a plan tendered under section 83 (1) (b) or (c)




(a)

must refer the plan to a designated highways official for review, and




(b)

must not approve the plan unless the designated highways official
consents.




(2)

The designated highways official may direct the approving officer to
impose on the applicant specified requirements that must be met before
the plan is approved or that must be conditions of approval.




(3)

Requirements that may be directed under subsection (2) are




(a)

requirements that the approving officer may require under this or
another Act including, without limiting this, under section 83 (2) (d)
of this Act or section 513 of the

Local Government Act

, and




(b)

any other requirements that the designated highways official considers
necessary to ensure that present and future highways needs can be
adequately met.




(4)

Without limiting the authority of an approving officer, the approving
officer may impose on an applicant any requirements directed by the
designated highways official under subsection (2).




(5)

In determining whether or not to consent, the designated highways
official is limited to considering the following:




(a)

whether the plan complies with the enactments that establish
requirements and standards in relation to highways;




(b)

whether the highways within and leading to and beyond the subdivision
are sufficient in relation to their capacity to carry traffic and
their provision of access into and out of the subdivision;




(c)

whether any requirements directed under subsection (2) have been
satisfied.






Plan tendered later than 3 months after survey




84

(1)


If a subdivision plan is tendered for examination and approval after
the expiration of 3 months after the date the survey is
completed, the approving officer may require the surveyor who carried
out the survey to inspect the survey and




(a)

be satisfied that




(i)

all posts and monuments are in place, and




(ii)

the survey has not been affected by an intervening survey or a
registration, deposit or filing under this Act, and




(b)

write on the plan "inspected under the
Land Title Act
", with the date of the inspection and the surveyor's signature.




(2)

The surveyor may inspect and certify under subsection (1) before the
plan is tendered for approval.




(3)

In the event of the death or disability of the surveyor, the Surveyor
General may appoint another British Columbia land surveyor to make the
inspection.






Time limit for approval and consideration of public interest




85

(1)


Subject to section 85.1, a subdivision plan must be approved or
rejected by the approving officer within 2 months after the date
it is tendered for examination and approval or within another period
that may be set by the Lieutenant Governor in Council.




(2)

If, under subsection (1), the approving officer rejects the
subdivision plan, the approving officer must forthwith notify in
writing the applicant, or the solicitor or agent of the applicant, of
the rejection, stating briefly the reason and the approving officer's
requirements, if any.




(3)

In considering an application for subdivision approval in respect of
land, the approving officer may refuse to approve the subdivision plan
if the approving officer considers that the deposit of the plan is
against the public interest.






Environmental Management Act
requirements must be met




85.1

(1)


In this section:


"director"
has the same meaning as in the

Environmental Management Act

;


"registrar"
has the same meaning as in section 39 of the

Environmental Management Act

;



"site disclosure statement"

has the same meaning as in section 39 of the

Environmental Management Act

;



"specified building permit application"

means an application for a building permit for which a site disclosure
statement must be provided under section 40 (1) (b) of the

Environmental Management Act

;



"specified development permit application"

means an application for a development permit for which a site
disclosure statement must be provided under section 40 (1) (b) of the

Environmental Management Act

;



"specified subdivision application"

means an application for subdivision for which a site disclosure
statement must be provided under section 40 (1) (a) of the

Environmental Management Act

;



"specified zoning application"

means an application for zoning for which a site disclosure statement
must be provided under section 40 (1) (b) of the

Environmental Management Act

.




(2)

An approving officer must not approve a specified subdivision
application with respect to a site, unless both of the following are
satisfied:




(a)

the approving officer has




(i)

received the site disclosure statement required under section 40 (1)
(a) of the

Environmental Management Act

for the application, and




(ii)

in accordance with section 40 (4) of the

Environmental Management Act

, assessed the site disclosure statement and forwarded it to the
registrar;




(b)

the approving officer has received one of the following:




(i)

notice from a director that an investigation of the site is not
required under section 40.1 (2)

[investigations required with provision of site disclosure
statement]

or 41
[site investigations]
of the

Environmental Management Act

;




(ii)

a final determination under section 44
[determination of contaminated sites]
of the

Environmental Management Act

that the site is not a contaminated site;




(iii)

notice from a director that the approving officer may approve the
application because, in the opinion of the director, the site would
not present a significant threat or risk if the application were
approved;




(iv)

notice from a director that the director has received a remediation
plan supporting independent remediation of the site;




(v)

notice from a director that the director has entered into a voluntary
remediation agreement with respect to the site;




(vi)

a valid and subsisting approval in principle or certificate of
compliance under section 53
[approvals in principle and certificates of compliance]
of the

Environmental Management Act

with respect to the site.




(3)

Despite subsection (2), an approving officer may approve a specified
subdivision application for a proposed development at a site if




(a)

the person who made the application makes one or more of the following
applications, for the same proposed development at the same site, to
the applicable municipality, regional district or local trust
committee under the

Islands Trust Act

:




(i)

a specified zoning application;




(ii)

a specified development permit application;




(iii)

a specified building permit application, and




(b)

the municipality, regional district or local trust committee has




(i)

received the site disclosure statement required under section 40 (1)
(b) of the

Environmental Management Act

for the specified zoning application, specified development permit
application or specified building permit application, as applicable,
and




(ii)

in accordance with section 40 (4) of the

Environmental Management Act

, assessed the site disclosure statement and forwarded it to the
registrar.






Matters to be considered by approving officer on application for
approval




86

(1)


Without limiting section 85 (3), in considering an application for
subdivision approval, the approving officer may




(a)

at the cost of the subdivider, personally examine or have an
examination and report made on the subdivision,




(b)

hear from all persons who, in the approving officer's opinion, are
affected by the subdivision,




(c)

refuse to approve the subdivision plan, if the approving officer
considers that




(i)

the anticipated development of the subdivision would injuriously
affect the established amenities of adjoining or reasonably adjacent
properties,




(ii)

the plan does not comply with the provisions of this Act relating to
access and the sufficiency of highway allowances shown in the plan,
and with all regulations of the Lieutenant Governor in Council
relating to subdivision plans,




(iii)

the highways shown in the plan are not cleared, drained, constructed
and surfaced to the approving officer's satisfaction, or unless, in
circumstances the approving officer considers proper, security is
provided in an amount and in a form acceptable to the approving
officer,




(iii.1)

a highway provided for in a subdivision plan or otherwise legally
established on lands adjoining, lying beyond or around the land
subdivided is, in the approving officer's opinion, not sufficient,




(iv)

the land has inadequate drainage installations,




(v)

the land is subject, or could reasonably be expected to be subject, to
flooding, erosion, land slip or avalanche,




(vi)

after due consideration of all available environmental impact and
planning studies, the anticipated development of the subdivision would
adversely affect the natural environment or the conservation of
heritage property to an unacceptable level,




(vii)

the cost to the government of providing public utilities or other
works or services would be excessive,




(viii)

the cost to the municipality or regional district of providing public
utilities or other works or services would be excessive,




(ix)

the subdivision is unsuited to the configuration of the land being
subdivided or to the use intended, or makes impracticable future
subdivision of the land within the proposed subdivision or of land
adjacent to it,




(x)

the anticipated development of the subdivision would unreasonably
interfere with farming operations on adjoining or reasonably adjacent
properties, due to inadequate buffering or separation of the
development from the farm, or




(xi)

despite subparagraph (ix), the extent or location of highways and
highway allowances shown on the plan is such that it would
unreasonably or unnecessarily increase access to agricultural land
within the agricultural land reserve, as those terms are defined in
the

Agricultural Land Commission Act

, and




(d)

if the approving officer considers that the land is, or could
reasonably be expected to be, subject to flooding, erosion, land slip
or avalanche, the approving officer may require, as a condition of
consent to an application for subdivision approval, that the
subdivider do either or both of the following:




(i)

provide the approving officer with a report certified by a
professional engineer or geoscientist experienced in geotechnical
engineering that the land may be used safely for the use intended;




(ii)

enter into one or more covenants under section 219 in respect of any
of the parcels that are being created by the subdivision.




(2)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may, by regulation, amend, add to,
substitute or repeal any of the grounds for refusal set out in this
section or in section 85 (3).






Local government matters to be considered by approving officer




87


Without limiting section 85 (3), the approving officer may refuse to
approve a subdivision plan if the approving officer considers that the
subdivision does not conform to the following:




(a)

all applicable provisions of the

Local Government Act

;




(b)

all applicable municipal, regional district and improvement district
bylaws regulating the subdivision of land and zoning;




(c)

if the land affected is within the trust area under the

Islands Trust Act

, all applicable local trust committee bylaws regulating the
subdivision of land and zoning.






Approval of plan




88


On the approval of a plan, the approving officer must write on it
"Approved under the
Land Title Act
" with the date of approval and must sign it and append below the
approving officer's signature the title



Approving Officer for


.........................................................................

(municipal, or as the case may be)


.........................................................................

(name of municipality, or as the case may be).






Appeal to Supreme Court




89

(1)


If a subdivision plan is rejected by the approving officer, or if the
approving officer has failed within the time limit set out in section
85 to approve a subdivision plan, the subdivider may make an
application in the nature of an appeal to the Supreme Court




(a)

within one month after receiving the approving officer's rejection, or




(b)

if the subdivision plan has not been approved within the time limit
set out in section 85, within one month after the expiration
of that time.




(2)

The court may, on application made within the time limit for appeal
under subsection (1) and on the terms it thinks proper, extend the
time for appeal for a period not exceeding one month.




(3)

The application must be supported by an affidavit of the subdivider or
the subdivider's solicitor or agent, stating fully and fairly all the
material facts of the case, and that to the best of the subdivider's,
solicitor's or agent's information, knowledge and belief all facts
material to the application for approval have been fully and fairly
disclosed.




(4)

The appellant must serve a copy of the application on the approving
officer, together with copies of all material and exhibits proposed to
be used on the hearing.




(5)

At least 10 days' notice must be given of the time and place of
hearing, and at that time and place all interested persons, whether or
not served with the application, may appear and be heard.




(6)

The court may make any order it considers proper as to the
notification of other persons of the hearing.




(7)

On the hearing of the application, the court may make any order




(a)

that the circumstances of the case require, including a direction that
the approving officer approve the plan, if otherwise in order, and




(b)

with respect to the costs of the persons appearing on the hearing of
the application as appears just.




(8)

If the approving officer is directed by the order to approve the plan,
the approving officer must note on it "Approved under the
Land Title Act
pursuant to the order of .............., made ................", with
the date of approval, and must append the approving officer's title
below the approving officer's signature in the manner provided in
section 88.




(9)

This section applies to the nonapproval or refusal to grant approval
of an application under section 101.






Power of Lieutenant Governor in Council to prohibit deposit of plan




90

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may, when it appears that the
deposit of a subdivision plan is against the public interest, order
the registrar not to receive the plan for deposit.




(2)

Subsection (1) applies whether or not the subdivision has been
approved and despite the right of appeal under section 89.




Division 5 — Deposit of Subdivision Plans





Approval of subdivision plan required




91

(1)


A subdivision or reference plan must not be deposited by the registrar
unless it has first been approved by the approving officer.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply




(a)

if, under section 94, the plan only consolidates into a single parcel
lawfully accreted land and another parcel, or




(b)

subject to section 99 (2), to a reference plan deposited under section
99 (1) (e), (f), (g), (h) and (j), or 100.






Application for deposit




92

(1)


An application to deposit a subdivision plan must be




(a)

in the form approved by the director,




(b)

accompanied by




(i)

the subdivision plan and the reproductions required by section 67 (s),
and




(ii)

the duplicate indefeasible title, if any, and if it is not on deposit
in the land title office, and




(c)

tendered for deposit to the registrar within 2 months or any other
period that may be prescribed after it has been approved by the
approving officer, or within a further time the registrar, on
application made to the registrar before the expiration of the
2 months or the other period prescribed, may allow for sufficient
cause.




(2)

If the application and plan are not tendered to the registrar within
the time allowed, the approval of the plan is deemed to have been
revoked.






Title to land in plan required to be registered




93

(1)


Except if a subdivider is proceeding under




(a)

section 94,




(b)

Part 9, in respect of a highway, or




(c)

section 58 or 80 of the

Land Act

,


a plan must not be deposited by the registrar unless the title to all
the land included in the plan and subdivided by it is registered in
the indefeasible fees register.




(2)

The registrar may, in the registrar's discretion, refuse to deposit a
plan covering land held under more than one title if the registrar
considers that confusion as to title of parcels may result.






Endorsement of certificate




94

(1)


Despite the

Land Act

, if a plan to be tendered for deposit in the land title office




(a)

includes land that adjoins Crown land and that has lawfully accreted
to the land being subdivided, or




(b)

shows a water boundary that differs from the water boundary shown on
the plan already on deposit on which the present title is based,


the Surveyor General may, if in the Surveyor General's opinion it is
in the public interest to do so, endorse on the plan a certificate




(c)

that the land in question is lawfully accreted land, or




(d)

that the water boundary is the natural boundary as defined in the

Land Act

.




(2)

The Surveyor General must not certify a plan under subsection (1)
unless the Surveyor General is satisfied that




(a)

the land in question has lawfully accreted to the registered land of
the subdivider, or




(b)

the water boundary shown on the plan is in fact the correct water
boundary, and the water boundary as shown on the plan already on
deposit on which the present title is based was incorrectly shown on
that plan due to lack of detail or sufficient detail, or other good
reason.




(3)

An application to the Surveyor General for endorsement under
subsection (1) must be accompanied by the fees payable under this Act.






Accreted land within plan




95

(1)


If a subdivision or reference plan is tendered for deposit, and
endorsed on it is a certificate of the Surveyor General certifying
that all or part of land intended to be dealt with by the plan is
lawfully accreted land adjoining Crown land, the certificate is deemed
to be proof satisfactory to the registrar that




(a)

the registered owner, purporting to include in the plan the accreted
land, has established to it a good safe holding and marketable title
in fee simple, and




(b)

the subdivider's indefeasible title to the land included in the
boundaries of the plan and affected by the accretion is the registered
title to the accreted land.




(2)

If the indefeasible title is endorsed with a registered charge, the
charge is extended to include the accreted land.






Water boundary deemed to be natural boundary




96

(1)


If a subdivision or reference plan is tendered for deposit, and
endorsed on it is a certificate of the Surveyor General certifying
that the water boundary shown on the plan is the natural boundary, as
defined in the

Land Act

, of the land shown outlined in accordance with the rules made under
section 385 (5) or, if the plan is in electronic format, outlined in
the manner established by the director, then, on the deposit of the
plan, and even though the water boundary does not agree with the
natural boundary shown on a plan already on deposit in the land title
office due to a lack of sufficient detail on the deposited plan or
other good reason, the certificate is deemed to be proof satisfactory
to the registrar that




(a)

the registered owner, purporting to include in the plan tendered for
deposit the area comprising the subject matter of the discrepancy, has
established to the area a good safe holding and marketable title in
fee simple, and




(b)

the subdivider's indefeasible title to the land adjoining the area and
included in the boundaries of the plan tendered for deposit is the
registered title to the area.




(2)

If the indefeasible title is endorsed with a registered charge, the
charge is extended to include in it the area referred to in subsection
(1).






Signatures of owners to plan




97

(1)


A subdivision plan must be signed by each owner of the land
subdivided.




(2)

All the signatures to the plan must be witnessed in the same manner as
is required by section 72 (2).




(3)

The registrar may accept a plan that has not been signed by all the
owners if, in the registrar's opinion, the interests of the owners who
have not signed are not affected by the deposit of the plan.




(4)

If an owner of a charge, other than a charge by way of mortgage,
lease, agreement for sale or subagreement for sale, fails or refuses
to sign the plan, the owners in fee simple may apply to the registrar
30 days after serving that owner with notice of an application to be
made under subsection (5).




(5)

On application made after the 30 days referred to in subsection (4),
the registrar may issue an appointment for the hearing of all
interested parties, and on the return of the appointment may




(a)

hear all interested parties or their agents,




(b)

adjourn the hearing of the application on terms the registrar
considers proper,




(c)

award costs the registrar considers just to the applicant or to any
other person interested in the application, and order by whom the
costs must be paid, and




(d)

grant or refuse all or part of the application, or on conditions the
registrar considers proper.




(6)

A person dissatisfied with an order made under subsection (5) may




(a)

require the registrar forthwith to provide written reasons, and




(b)

within 21 days after receiving the registrar's reasons, apply to the
Supreme Court by way of appeal from the registrar's decision.




(7)

Sections 309 and 310 apply in respect of the application to the court
and the proceedings on it.




(8)

The deposit of a plan pursuant to an order of the registrar or court
made under this section has the same effect in all respects as if the
plan had been signed, without prejudice however, except as to a
highway, park or public square included in the plan, to a condition,
exception, reservation, charge, lien or interest to which the
registered title to the subdivided land is subject.






New indefeasible titles for parcels shown on deposited plan




98

(1)


The registrar must examine the application and plan, and any
supporting instrument produced and, if satisfied that they are in
order and in compliance with all the requirements of this Act, must
deposit the plan under the serial deposit number assigned to the plan
on its receipt and register new indefeasible titles for the parcels
shown on the plan as may be necessary.




(2)

If a new indefeasible title is registered, the former indefeasible
title must be cancelled in the manner provided for in
section 189.




(3)

If a new indefeasible title is registered, a print of the plan must be
transmitted to the appropriate taxing authorities.




(4)

Concurrently with the tender of the plan, an application may be made
to the registrar to register an instrument dealing with any parcel
included in the plan, and reference in the instrument to the plan and
parcel must be in the manner required by the registrar.




Division 6 — Other Methods of Defining New Parcels





Registrar to determine whether description of land acceptable




99

(1)


The registrar may accept




(a)

a metes and bounds description or an abbreviated description, with or
without a reference plan or an explanatory plan, or




(b)

a reference plan or an explanatory plan, with or without a metes and
bounds description

in any of the following cases:



(c)

if a new parcel is created by the subdivision of an existing parcel
shown on a deposited subdivision plan;




(d)

if the new parcel is created for the purpose of adding it to an
already existing adjoining parcel in the same subdivision plan, in
which case the new parcel is deemed to be an integral portion of the
parcel to which the new parcel is added;




(e)

if an easement, restrictive covenant, covenant under section 219 or a
statutory right of way is being created;




(f)

if a parcel is being transferred to the Crown or other transferee for
highway purposes;




(g)

if there is a statutory right to acquire compulsorily a parcel smaller
than the registered parcel;




(h)

if a parcel is being transferred, leased or donated for public
purposes to




(i)

the Crown, including a Crown agency,




(ii)

a municipality, regional district or improvement district,




(iii)

a public body exercising public functions over the area in which the
land is located, or




(iv)

a person designated by the minister under section 219 (3) (c);




(i)

if the registrar is satisfied that




(i)

the creation of the new parcel is to provide for an isolated
transaction and is not a step in a progressive subdivision, and




(ii)

due to the previous legal establishment of sufficient highways in
accordance with section 75, the acceptance of the description or
the deposit of the plan is not against the public interest;




(j)

if a new parcel is being created for a lease for well site or access
roadway or both well site and access roadway purposes under the

Energy Resource Activities Act

;




(k)

if a new parcel is being created for a lease other than a lease
referred to in paragraph (j).




(2)

The registrar, before exercising the registrar's discretion in respect
of the matters covered by subsection (1) (c), (d), (f), (h) (iv), (i)
or (k), must require the applicant to provide satisfactory evidence
that the approving officer has granted approval of the subdivision but
in the case of a transfer under subsection (1) (f), approval is
required only if the land is in a rural area.




(3)

In the case of a lease of all or part of a building, the registrar
may, on the ground of hardship or economic loss, accept a sketch plan
with or without a metes and bounds description or abbreviated
description.






Re-establishment of boundaries




100

(1)


The registrar may accept




(a)

a reference plan without an accompanying description, if a resurvey or
survey of an existing parcel is made for the purpose of
re-establishing the boundaries of the parcel in accordance with the
registered title, and




(b)

despite section 158 (1), a reference or an explanatory plan without an
accompanying description, if a new parcel is created by the
consolidation of adjoining surveyed parcels.




(2)

Section 98 applies to the deposit of a reference plan or an
explanatory plan under this section.




(3)

Sections 75 and 91 do not apply to a survey, resurvey or consolidation
under this section.




(4)

A reference plan or an explanatory plan tendered for deposit under
this section must be accompanied by




(a)

an application in the form approved by the director signed by the
owner in fee simple or that owner's agent and consented to by each
holder of a registered charge, and




(b)

the duplicate indefeasible title, if any.




(5)

If there is a consolidation of surveyed parcels, a consent referred to
in subsection (4) (a) on the application and given by the holder of a
mortgage granted by the owner of the fee simple operates, on the
deposit of the plan, to extend the mortgage registered against the
title to the surveyed parcel so as to coincide with the boundaries of
the new parcel as shown on the reference or explanatory plan.






Principles guiding approving officer




101

(1)


In considering an application for approval of a subdivision under
section 99, the approving officer must be guided by the
principles and requirements set out in this Act applicable to the
examination of subdivisions made by subdivision plan.




(2)

An application for approval must be accompanied by the prescribed fee.




(3)

If the approving officer refuses to grant approval, or if approval is
not granted within 2 months after the date the application is
tendered to the approving officer for approval, the owner of the land
is entitled to make an application in the nature of an appeal to the
Supreme Court in the same manner as is provided in section 89 for
the nonapproval or rejection of a subdivision plan.






Dedication by reference or explanatory plan




102

(1)


If the Crown is the registered owner of a parcel free from
encumbrances, and intends to establish all or part of the parcel as a
highway, the Crown may deposit a reference plan showing the area
intended to become a highway.




(2)

The registrar may, if the intended establishment under subsection (1)
is being effected primarily for the clarification of the records,
accept an explanatory plan instead of a reference plan.




(3)

The reference plan or explanatory plan must be




(a)

signed by the Surveyor General, and




(b)

unless the highway has been previously established by notice in the
Gazette, approved by a designated highways official.




(4)

The deposit of the reference plan or explanatory plan by the registrar
operates as a dedication by the Crown to the public of the land shown
on the reference or explanatory plan as a highway.




(5)

The registrar must accordingly amend or cancel, as the case may be,
the existing indefeasible title, and the land ceases to be registered
under this Act.




(6)

This section applies if the Crown is a registered owner under
section 278.






Execution of plan by owner




103


Unless the application of this section is dispensed with by the
registrar, a reference or an explanatory plan must be




(a)

signed by each owner of the land dealt with by the plan, and




(b)

witnessed in the same manner as is required by section 72 (2).






Serial deposit number




104


The registrar must assign a serial number to each reference or
explanatory plan deposited by the registrar.




Division 7 — Conflicting Measurements





Power of registrar if measurements on plans conflict




105

(1)


The registrar may




(a)

refuse to accept a plan tendered for deposit, the measurements of
which do not correspond with the measurements shown on a plan already
on deposit covering all or part of the same land or having a common
boundary with the plan being tendered,




(b)

refer a plan to the Surveyor General for the Surveyor General's
report, or




(c)

order




(i)

a new survey, or




(ii)

that all other necessary steps be taken to ascertain the true
measurements.




(2)

This section does not apply to a posting plan.






Power of registrar to correct errors, defects or omissions




106

(1)


If it appears to the registrar, on the filing of satisfactory
evidence, including a plan or other instrument the registrar may
require, that there is an error, defect or omission in a deposited
plan, the registrar may correct the plan.




(2)

The registrar must make an appropriate note of the correction on the
plan and in the register following the description of the land.




(3)

If a plan has been microfilmed, the registrar must, as far as
practicable, make the correction on the plan and update the microfilm
copy.




Division 8 — Vesting of Title by Deposit of Plan





Dedication and vesting




107

(1)


The deposit of a subdivision, reference or explanatory plan showing a
portion of the land




(a)

as a highway, park or public square, that is not designated on the
plan to be of a private nature, or




(b)

as covered by water and as lying immediately adjacent to a lake,
river, stream or other body of water not within the land covered by
the plan, and designated on the plan to be returned to the government,

operates



(c)

as an immediate and conclusive dedication by the owner to the public
of that portion of land shown as a highway, park or public square, or
to be returned to the government, for the purpose indicated on or to
be inferred from the words or markings on the plan,




(d)

to vest in the Crown in right of the Province, subject to any other
enactment, title to the highway, park or public square, or to the
portion to be returned to the government, except any of the following
that are registered in the name of a person other than the owner:




(i)

minerals and placer minerals as defined in the

Mineral Tenure Act

;




(ii)

coal;




(iii)

petroleum as defined in the

Petroleum and Natural Gas Act

;




(iv)

gas or gases, and




(e)

to extinguish the owner's common law property, if any, in the portion
of land referred to in subsection (1) (a) or (b).




(2)

If the Crown in right of Canada, in trust for a band, as defined in
the

Indian Act

(Canada), is the owner of the subdivided land, the Lieutenant Governor
in Council may limit, in whole or in part, and subject to the terms
and conditions the Lieutenant Governor in Council considers necessary,
the operation of subsection (1).




(3)

An indefeasible title must not be registered for a highway, park or
public square dedicated and vested under this section.




(4)

A public street, road, square, lane, bridge or other highway that
vests in the City of New Westminster under section 204 of the
New Westminster Act, 1888
vests subject to the exceptions referred to in subsection (1) (d) of
this section.






If designation on plan "Returned to Crown in right of the Province"




108

(1)


Except as provided in section 107 (1), if, on the subdivision of land,
a subdivision or reference plan is deposited in the land title office,
and a portion of the land subdivided is designated on the plan
"Returned to Crown in right of the Province", the deposit of the plan
is deemed to be a transfer in fee simple by the registered owner in
favour of the government.




(2)

If the subdivided area shown in and included in a subdivision or
reference plan deposited in the land title office before or after this
section comes into force adjoins land covered by water, and the land
is included in the subdivider's indefeasible title and adjoins land
the title to which is vested in the Crown in right of the Province,
the deposit is deemed to be a transfer in fee simple of the first
mentioned land to the government, and the title of the registered
owner to the first mentioned land covered by water is deemed to be
extinguished.




(3)

Subsection (2) does not apply to land that has been exempted from the
application of that subsection by order of the minister, subject to
any terms or conditions contained in the exemption order.




(3.1)

The minister may delegate to the Surveyor General the minister's
powers and duties under subsection (3).




(4)

A certified copy of an order under subsection (3) must be filed with
the deposit of the plan, and the registrar must make a note of the
order in the records in the manner required by the director.




(5)

An application to the minister for an exemption under subsection (3)
must be accompanied by the prescribed fee.




(5.1)

Subject to any terms or conditions the Lieutenant Governor in Council
considers appropriate, the Lieutenant Governor in Council may order
retroactively that subsection (2) did not operate on one or more
occasions in respect of land identified in the order, if, in the
opinion of the Lieutenant Governor in Council, one or both of the
following apply:




(a)

it is desirable to clarify title to land because of uncertainty about
the operation of subsection (2);




(b)

the operation of subsection (2) is inappropriate or unfair because a
person, including a registered owner, as a result of a belief that the
registered owner had title to land,




(i)

has incurred costs in the past,




(ii)

is likely to suffer loss in the future, or




(iii)

is otherwise prejudiced.




(5.2)

Subject to the terms and conditions provided for by the Lieutenant
Governor in Council and to subsection (5.4), an order under subsection
(5.1) is retroactive for all purposes and, without limitation, has the
following retroactive effects:




(a)

the land referred to in the order is conclusively deemed not to have
been transferred in fee simple to the government under subsection (2)
on any occasion identified in the order;




(b)

the title of the registered owner at the time of an occasion
identified in the order is conclusively deemed not to have been
extinguished under subsection (2).




(5.3)

The registrar must make a note of an order under subsection (5.1) in
the records in the manner required by the director on receipt of the
following:




(a)

a certified copy of the order;




(b)

if required by the registrar, a certificate from the minister stating
that all terms and conditions in the order have been satisfied;




(c)

any other filings required by the registrar.




(5.4)

An order under subsection (5.1) only has effect if the registrar has
made a note of it under subsection (5.3).




(6)

A transfer under subsection (1) or (2) is deemed to include the mines
and minerals except if the title to them is registered in the name of
an owner not required to sign a subdivision or reference plan.




(7)

An indefeasible title must not be registered for land transferred
under subsections (1) and (2).






Extinguishment of highway not shown on plan




109

(1)


For the purpose of this section,
"highway"
means a highway located in a rural area and discontinued and closed by
notice published in the Gazette, but does not include a highway
dedicated by the deposit under this Act or the former Act of a
subdivision or reference plan.




(2)

The deposit by the registrar of a subdivision or reference plan that
has been approved by a designated highways official




(a)

extinguishes a highway in the plan that adjoins on both its sides land
the title to which is registered in the name of the subdivider,




(b)

vests the title to the highway extinguished in the owner of the land
covered by the plan without a further instrument of transfer, and




(c)

if the title to the land covered by the plan is subject to a
registered charge, extends the charge to include the land covered by
the highway extinguished.




Division 9





Repealed




110


[Repealed 2018-37-15.]




Division 10 — Penalties If Plan Not Deposited





Rights of purchaser when plan not deposited




111

(1)


In this section,
"contract"
includes a transfer.




(2)

If a person sells or transfers or agrees to sell or transfer a parcel
purporting to be described according to a plan of subdivision before
the plan has been deposited under this Act, a purchaser or transferee,
or a person claiming under either, who has purchased or accepted
delivery of a transfer without knowledge of the nondeposit of the
plan, or of the necessity for its deposit, may at the purchaser's,
transferee's or claiming person's option, on acquiring knowledge of
it, rescind the contract of purchase and recover




(a)

all money paid under it, with lawful interest, and




(b)

all taxes paid and other expenses incurred in consequence of the
purchase, with lawful interest.




(3)

If the contract is rescinded, the purchaser, transferee or other
person has a lien for all sums referred to in subsection (2) on the
land of the vendor included in the plan of subdivision.




(4)

Despite subsections (2) and (3), if the purchaser does not exercise
the right to rescind, the vendor remains bound.




(5)

Liens created under this section rank equally.






Penalty for failure to deposit plan of subdivision




112

(1)


A person who has subdivided land and unreasonably neglects or refuses,
after service on the person of a written demand by a purchaser or
other person who has acquired an interest in the land, to deposit the
plan of subdivision under this Act within 2 months after service
of the demand, must pay to the purchaser or other person a penalty
of $500 for each month the neglect or refusal continues.




(2)

The penalty may be recovered by the purchaser or other person referred
to in subsection (1) in any court in the same manner as a debt.




Division 11 — Statutory Right of Way Plans





Deposit




113

(1)


For the purpose of this section,
"person"
means a person referred to in section 218 (1) (a), (b) or (d) as
grantee.




(2)

A statutory right of way must not be registered unless a statutory
right of way plan is deposited with the registrar or its deposit is
dispensed with by the registrar on the ground of hardship or economic
loss.




(3)

A plan tendered under subsection (2) must




(a)

include in its title, if applicable, a reference to the enactment
authorizing the acquisition of the statutory right of way, and




(b)

comply with section 116 and the rules respecting surveys and plans
made under section 385 (5) for the purposes of this section.




(4)

The person entitled to the statutory right of way may apply for its
registration concurrently with the tendering of the plan or after its
deposit.




(5)

The registrar must examine the plan and, if satisfied that it complies
with this Division, assign to the plan a serial deposit number.




(6)

Subject to a contrary enactment, the deposit of a statutory right of
way plan unaccompanied by an instrument of grant does not confer an
interest in the land affected but if the part of the register relating
to the land is stored by electronic means, the registrar must make a
note of it in the register against the indefeasible title.




(7)

After a plan has been deposited in the land title office, an
instrument affecting the land included in the plan must conform to the
plan and contain a reference to its deposit number, unless those
requirements are dispensed with by the registrar.






Statutory right of way plan may be used in application to register fee
simple




114

(1)


The registrar may allow a person to use and deposit a statutory right
of way plan, instead of a reference plan, if all the following
requirements are met:




(a)

the registrar is satisfied that the nature of the person's undertaking
requires the acquisition of a title in fee simple to the land included
within the statutory right of way plan;




(b)

the plan is approved by the approving officer in the manner required
under this Act for a subdivision plan;




(c)

in the case of a plan that establishes a highway, approval of the plan
has received the consent of a designated highways official under
section 83.1, unless that section does not apply by reason of an order
under section 77.1 (1) (c);




(d)

the plan complies with this Part and the applicable rules respecting
surveys and plans made under section 385 (5).




(2)

Subsection (1) (b) and (c) does not apply to a person having a
statutory right to acquire compulsorily a parcel smaller than the
registered parcel.




(3)

If the statutory right of way plan has been deposited before an
application for title in fee simple, the approval required by
subsection (1) (b) and the consent required by subsection (1) (c) may
be given in a separate document of the approving officer, instead of
being written on the plan.






Deposit of statutory right of way plan




115

(1)


The minister charged with the administration of the

Transportation Act

may apply to the registrar to deposit a statutory right of way plan in
respect of land acquired for a highway, and the registrar, if
satisfied that the application and plan are in order, must assign to
the plan a serial deposit number.




(2)

Concurrently with or following the deposit of the statutory right of
way plan, the minister charged with the administration of the

Transportation Act

may file with the registrar a certificate in the form approved by the
director certifying that all or part of the land in the statutory
right of way plan has been established as a highway and the title
vested in the government under section 57 of the

Transportation Act

or in the BC Transportation Financing Authority under section 58
of that Act, as the case may be.




(3)

On the filing of the notice, the registrar must amend the records
accordingly.




(4)

After complying with subsection (3), the registrar must send a notice
in the form approved by the director to the registered owner.




(5)

An indefeasible title must not be registered for the land described in
the notice but, on compliance with subsection (4), the title to that
land ceases to be registered under this Act.




(6)

This section applies to plans deposited by the minister charged with
the administration of the

Transportation Act

under this or the former Act but subsections (3) and (4) apply only
insofar as the state of business in the land title office makes it
possible for the registrar to comply with those subsections.






Requirements of statutory right of way plans




116

(1)


A statutory right of way plan tendered to the registrar for deposit
under section 113 must, in addition, comply with the following
requirements:




(a)

the area taken from each section, district lot or parcel, as the case
may be, must be shown on the plan;




(b)

the boundary lines of each section, district lot or parcel affected by
the plan must be shown according to the original survey, and there
must also be shown a sufficient number of angular and linear
measurements to define the limits of the statutory right of way and to
show their connection with each section, district lot or parcel
through which the statutory right of way passes;




(c)

if the statutory right of way is through land that has been subdivided
and shown on any deposited plan, the plan must show distinctly, as to
all registered parcels affected by the statutory right of way, the
boundaries and designation of each parcel according to the deposited
plan, and a sufficient number of angular and linear measurements to
show the location and connection of the statutory right of way with
each registered parcel and subdivision affected;




(d)

except as provided in section 117, the centre line from which
measurements to the limits of the statutory right of way are shown
must be referenced on the ground by iron posts or equally permanent
monuments, so placed as to identify the points of deflection from all
tangents, and the plan must show, by angular and linear measurements,
the relation of all corners of the land within the statutory right of
way plan to those iron posts or monuments;




(e)

if transition curves are used on the located centre line of the
statutory right of way, they must be replaced in each case on the plan
tendered for deposit by a simple curve tangential to the main tangent
and compounded with the main curve at its junction with the transition
curve, and the simple curve must then be called a terminal curve;




(f)

if the limits of the statutory right of way are governed by a circular
curve on the centre line, they must be circular curves concentric with
and at the appropriate radial distance from the governing centre line
curve;




(g)

if the limits of the statutory right of way are governed by a
transition curve on the centre line, they must be formed by a series
of straight lines connecting points at the appropriate distances from
the centre line, measured along the radii, or radii produced, or along
the line bisecting the angle between contiguous chords of the
transition curve, as the case may be.




(2)

If there is a statutory right of way through unsurveyed Crown land, it
is acceptable to the registrar if a sufficient number of angular and
linear measurements are shown on the statutory right of way plan to
define the limits of the land affected by the statutory right of way.






Widening of statutory right of way




117


If a statutory right of way




(a)

is contiguous to and parallel to a surveyed boundary, or




(b)

is shown on a posted statutory right of way plan on deposit, and the
statutory right of way is to be widened by the addition of a parallel
contiguous strip,


the registrar may, if the application for the registration of the
title to the statutory right of way comprising the strip is by way of
a charge, accept, instead of a statutory right of way plan, an
explanatory plan with no accompanying description.






When water boundary deemed natural boundary




118

(1)


If a statutory right of way plan tendered for deposit has endorsed on
it a certificate of the Surveyor General certifying that




(a)

the water boundary, as shown on the statutory right of way plan,
deemed to be the natural boundary, as defined in the

Land Act

, of the land included within the statutory right of way plan, and




(b)

a designated area within the statutory right of way plan, not included
in the title of the registered owner to be affected by the deposit of
the statutory right of way plan, is incorporated in the registered
owner's title,


on the deposit of the statutory right of way plan, and even if




(c)

the water boundary shown on the plan does not agree with the natural
boundary shown on a plan already on deposit in the land title office,
and




(d)

the area designated is not included in the registered owner's title,

the certificate is conclusive evidence that



(e)

the registered owner has established a good safe holding and
marketable title in fee simple to the designated area, and




(f)

that the registered owner's indefeasible title to the land adjoining
that area is the registered title to that area.




(2)

If an indefeasible title under subsection (1) is endorsed with a
registered charge, on the deposit of the statutory right of way plan,
the charge is extended to include the area referred to in subsection
(1).




(3)

The registrar, after notice accompanied by a copy of the plan to all
affected registered owners, must amend the records accordingly.




(4)

The indefeasible title under subsection (1) must be amended by adding
to the legal description of the land "including the area designated on
SRW Plan No. ...........", followed by the date and the registrar's
initials.




(5)

The duplicate indefeasible title, if any, and if not on deposit, must
be delivered to the registrar, who must return it to the holder after
making the necessary amendments.




(6)

On amendment of the existing indefeasible title as provided in
subsection (4), the registrar may register a new indefeasible title in
the name of the registered owner that incorporates the substance of
the amendment.




(7)

An application under this section for endorsement by the Surveyor
General must be accompanied by the fees payable under this Act.






Alteration in deposited statutory right of way plan




119

(1)


If an alteration in a deposited statutory right of way plan is
necessary to define a subsequently acquired area, the registrar may




(a)

authorize the deposit of a supplemental plan prepared by a British
Columbia land surveyor showing the alteration, and




(b)

if satisfied the supplemental plan is in order, assign to it a serial
deposit number and cross reference it with the original statutory
right of way plan.




(2)

Section 113 (6) applies to a supplemental plan deposited under this
section.




Division 12 — Plans and Descriptions to Accompany Bylaws





Municipal bylaw cancelling highway or public square dedication




120

(1)


A municipal bylaw cancelling the dedication of all or part of a
highway or public square must be filed in the land title office.




(2)

In relation to a bylaw under subsection (1), the registrar may accept
a reference plan, or an explanatory plan, or a description by apt
descriptive words.




(3)

On the filing of a bylaw cancelling the dedication of all or part of a
highway, the registrar must register the indefeasible title of the
property in the name of the municipality, subject to the reservations
and exceptions provided in section 50 of the

Land Act

and section 35
[ownership and possession of highways]
of the

Community Charter

, as if the vesting were made by Crown grant under the

Land Act

.




Contents
|


Part 1
|


Part 2
|


Part 3
|


Part 4
|


Part 5
|


Part 6
|

Part 7 |

Part 8
|


Part 9
|


Part 10
|


Part 10.1
|


Part 11
|


Part 12
|


Part 13
|


Part 14
|


Part 15
|


Part 16
|


Part 17
|


Part 18
|


Part 19
|


Part 19.1
|


Part 20
|


Part 21
|


Part 22
|


Part 23
|


Part 24
|



Part 24.01

|


Part 24.1
|


Part 24.2
|


Part 25
|



Schedule 1

|



Schedule 2





