





View Complete Statute



Business Corporations Act
[SBC 2002] CHAPTER 57



Part 11 — Extraprovincial Companies



Division 1 — Registration





Definitions




374


In this Part:


"director"
has the same meaning as in paragraph (b) of the definition of
"director" in section 1 (1) and, when used in relation to a foreign
entity, or an extraprovincial company, that is a limited liability
company, means a manager of the limited liability company;



"shareholder"

, when used in relation to a foreign entity, or an extraprovincial
company, that is a limited liability company, means a member of the
limited liability company.






Foreign entities required to be registered




375

(1)


A foreign entity must register as an extraprovincial company in
accordance with this Act within 2 months after the foreign entity
begins to carry on business in British Columbia.




(2)

For the purposes of this Act and subject to subsection (3), a foreign
entity is deemed to carry on business in British Columbia if




(a)

its name, or any name under which it carries on business, is listed in
a telephone directory




(i)

for any part of British Columbia, and




(ii)

in which an address or telephone number in British Columbia is given
for the foreign entity,




(b)

its name, or any name under which it carries on business, appears or
is announced in any advertisement in which an address or telephone
number in British Columbia is given for the foreign entity,




(c)

it has, in British Columbia,




(i)

a resident agent, or




(ii)

a warehouse, office or place of business, or




(d)

it otherwise carries on business in British Columbia.




(3)

A foreign entity does not carry on business in British Columbia




(a)

if it is a bank,




(b)

if its only business in British Columbia is constructing and operating
a railway, or




(c)

merely because it has an interest as a limited partner in a limited
partnership carrying on business in British Columbia.




(4)

A foreign entity need not be registered under this Act or comply with
this Part other than subsection (5) of this section, and may carry on
business in British Columbia as if it were registered under this Act,
if




(a)

the principal business of the foreign entity consists of the operation
of one or more ships, and




(b)

the foreign entity does not maintain in British Columbia a warehouse,
office or place of business under its own control or under the control
of a person on behalf of the foreign entity.




(5)

Every person who is a resident agent or representative of a foreign
entity referred to in subsection (4) must file with the registrar




(a)

a notice of agency in the form established by the registrar stating




(i)

the name of the foreign entity,




(ii)

the chief place of business of the foreign entity outside British
Columbia, and




(iii)

particulars of the person's agency, and




(b)

a notice of change of agency in the form established by the registrar
identifying any change in that name, chief place of business or
agency.




(6)

Sections 27 (1), 384 and 385 apply to a foreign entity referred to in
subsection (4) as if it were an extraprovincial company.






Application for registration




376

(1)


To apply to register as an extraprovincial company under this Act, a
foreign entity must provide to the registrar the records and
information the registrar may require and must




(a)

reserve its name or an assumed name under section 22 or 26, as the
case may be,




(b)

appoint one or more attorneys if required under section 386, and




(c)

submit to the registrar for filing




(i)

a registration statement, and




(ii)

any other records the registrar may require.




(2)

Subsection (1) (a) of this section does not apply to a federal
corporation.




(3)

The registration statement referred to in subsection (1) (c) (i) must




(a)

be in the form established by the registrar,




(b)

set out,




(i)

if the foreign entity is a federal corporation, the name of the
federal corporation,




(ii)

if the name of the foreign entity is reserved under section 22, the
reserved name and the reservation number given for it, or




(iii)

for a foreign entity to which section 26 applies, the name of the
foreign entity and the assumed name reserved for it under section 26
and the reservation number given for it,




(c)

set out the foreign entity's jurisdiction,




(d)

set out the most recent of the following dates:




(i)

the date on which the foreign entity was incorporated or organized, as
the case may be;




(ii)

the date on which the foreign entity was continued or otherwise
transferred by a similar process into a foreign jurisdiction;




(iii)

if the foreign entity resulted from an amalgamation or a similar
process, the date of that amalgamation or similar process,




(e)

set out any incorporation, continuation, amalgamation or other
identifying number or designation given to the foreign entity by the
foreign entity's jurisdiction,




(f)

set out the mailing address and the delivery address of the head
office of the foreign entity, whether or not the head office is in
British Columbia, and




(g)

set out, for each person, if any, appointed as an attorney by the
foreign entity,




(i)

the full name of the attorney, and




(ii)

the mailing address and the delivery address of the attorney in
accordance with section 386 (3).




(4)

At any time, before or after a foreign entity is registered as an
extraprovincial company, the registrar may order the foreign entity to
provide to the registrar, within the time required by the registrar,
proof satisfactory to the registrar of the foreign entity's status in
the foreign entity's jurisdiction.






Registration as an extraprovincial company




377

(1)


After a foreign entity complies with section 376 to the satisfaction
of the registrar, the registrar must, if the foreign entity is a
federal corporation, and may, in any other case,




(a)

file the registration statement, and




(b)

register the foreign entity as an extraprovincial company.




(2)

After a foreign entity is registered as an extraprovincial company
under subsection (1) of this section, the registrar must




(a)

issue a certificate of registration showing




(i)

the name and any assumed name for the extraprovincial company,




(ii)

its registration number, and




(iii)

the date and time of its registration,




(b)

furnish to the extraprovincial company that certificate and a copy of
the registration statement,




(c)

furnish a copy of the registration statement to each attorney referred
to in the registration statement who has not been furnished with a
copy of that record under paragraph (b), and




(d)

publish in the prescribed manner a notice of the registration.






Effect of registration




378

(1)


Whether or not the requirements precedent and incidental to
registration of a foreign entity as an extraprovincial company have
been complied with, a notation in the corporate register that a
foreign entity has been registered as an extraprovincial company is
conclusive evidence for the purposes of this Act and for all other
purposes that the foreign entity has been duly registered as an
extraprovincial company on the date shown and the time, if any, shown
in the corporate register.




(2)

Subject to the provisions of this Act, to the laws of British Columbia
and to the laws of any other jurisdiction that are or may be
applicable to it, an extraprovincial company may, for the purpose of
carrying on business in British Columbia, exercise in British Columbia
the powers contained in or permitted by its charter or similar record.




(3)

Registration of a foreign entity as an extraprovincial company does
not entitle the foreign entity to do either of the following:




(a)

carry on any business or exercise any power that its charter or
similar record restricts it from carrying on or exercising;




(b)

exercise any of its powers in a manner inconsistent with those
restrictions in its charter or similar record.




(4)

No act of a foreign entity that carries on business in British
Columbia, including a transfer of property, rights or interests to it
or by it, is invalid merely because




(a)

the act is described in subsection (3) (a) or (b) or contravenes
section 422 (7), or




(b)

the foreign entity was not, at the time of that act, registered as an
extraprovincial company.






Amalgamation of extraprovincial company




379

(1)


If a foreign entity that is registered as an extraprovincial company
is a party to an amalgamation or similar process other than one that
results in a company, there must be provided to the registrar the
records and information the registrar may require, and there must be
filed with the registrar, within 2 months after the effective date of
the amalgamation or similar process,




(a)

a notice of amalgamation of extraprovincial company that complies with
subsection (2), and




(b)

any other records the registrar may require.




(2)

A notice of amalgamation of extraprovincial company must be in the
form established by the registrar and must set out




(a)

the name of the amalgamated extraprovincial company if the amalgamated
extraprovincial company




(i)

has adopted as its name the name of one of the amalgamating
extraprovincial companies, or




(ii)

is a federal corporation,




(b)

if paragraph (a) does not apply, the name reserved for the amalgamated
extraprovincial company under section 22 and the reservation number
given for it, or




(c)

if paragraphs (a) and (b) of this subsection do not apply but section
26 applies, the name of the foreign entity, the assumed name reserved
for it under section 26 and the reservation number given for that
assumed name.




(3)

After the notice of amalgamation of extraprovincial company is filed
with the registrar, the registrar must




(a)

issue a certificate of registration showing




(i)

the name and any assumed name for the amalgamated extraprovincial
company,




(ii)

its registration number and the date and time of its registration, and




(iii)

the date, and the time, if any, shown for the amalgamation or similar
process on the notice of amalgamation of extraprovincial company,




(b)

furnish to the amalgamated extraprovincial company the certificate
referred to in paragraph (a) and a copy of the notice of amalgamation
of extraprovincial company,




(c)

furnish a copy of the notice of amalgamation of extraprovincial
company to each attorney of the amalgamated extraprovincial company
who has not been furnished with a copy of that record under paragraph
(b), and




(d)

publish in the prescribed manner a notice of the amalgamation or
similar process.




(4)

From the time of the amalgamation or similar process, the amalgamated
extraprovincial company is seized of and holds and possesses all land
of the amalgamating entities that is located in British Columbia.




(5)

At any time, before or after a certificate of registration is issued
under subsection (3), the registrar may order the amalgamated foreign
entity to provide to the registrar, within the time required by the
registrar, proof satisfactory to the registrar of the foreign entity's
status in the foreign entity's jurisdiction.






Extraprovincial companies to file annual report




380

(1)


Subject to section 411 (2), an extraprovincial company must file with
the registrar an annual report in the form established by the
registrar,




(a)

unless another date has been prescribed under paragraph (b) of this
section, within 2 months after each anniversary of the date of its
registration as an extraprovincial company, or




(b)

if another date has been prescribed, within 2 months after each
anniversary of that prescribed date.




(2)

An annual report filed under subsection (1) must contain information
that was correct as of the most recent applicable anniversary.






Extraprovincial companies to notify registrar of changes




381

(1)


An extraprovincial company must file with the registrar a notice of
change respecting extraprovincial company in respect of any change
that renders incorrect or incomplete any of the information shown in
the corporate register with respect to the extraprovincial company.




(2)

A notice of change respecting extraprovincial company required by
subsection (1) must be




(a)

in the form established by the registrar, and




(b)

submitted to the registrar for filing promptly after the occurrence of
the change in respect of which the notice is filed.






Change of name of extraprovincial companies




382

(1)


If a foreign entity that is registered as an extraprovincial company
changes its name, the extraprovincial company must provide to the
registrar the records and information the registrar may require and
must




(a)

file with the registrar




(i)

a notice of change of name of extraprovincial company in the form
established by the registrar, and




(ii)

any other records the registrar may require, and




(b)

before filing those records,




(i)

if it wishes to carry on business in British Columbia under its new
name, reserve its new name under section 22, or




(ii)

if its new name contravenes any of the prescribed requirements or any
of the other requirements set out in Division 2 of Part 2 and the
extraprovincial company does not have an assumed name under which it
intends to continue to carry on business in British Columbia, adopt an
assumed name.




(2)

If an extraprovincial company wishes to adopt an assumed name under
subsection (1) (b) (ii) of this section or in response to an order of
the registrar under section 28 (2), section 26 applies.




(3)

After the notice of change of name of extraprovincial company is filed
with the registrar, the registrar must




(a)

issue and furnish to the extraprovincial company a certificate showing




(i)

the change of name, and




(ii)

the assumed name, if any, under which the extraprovincial company is
to carry on business in British Columbia, and




(b)

publish in the prescribed manner a notice of the change of name.




(4)

Subsection (1) (b) does not apply to a federal corporation.




(5)

At any time, before or after a certificate is issued under subsection
(3) (a), the registrar may order the foreign entity to provide to the
registrar, within the time required by the registrar, proof
satisfactory to the registrar of the foreign entity's status in the
foreign entity's jurisdiction.






Cancellation or change of assumed name of extraprovincial company




383

(1)


An extraprovincial company that has adopted an assumed name under this
Act may, by providing to the registrar the records and information the
registrar may require and by filing with the registrar a notice of
change of assumed name in the form established by the registrar and
any other records the registrar may require,




(a)

if the extraprovincial company reserves its own name under section 22,
cancel its assumed name and carry on business in British Columbia
under its own name, or




(b)

change its assumed name and carry on business in British Columbia
under the new assumed name.




(2)

If an extraprovincial company wishes to change an assumed name under
subsection (1) (b) of this section, section 26 applies.




(3)

After an extraprovincial company cancels or changes its assumed name
in accordance with this section, the registrar must




(a)

issue and furnish to the extraprovincial company a certificate showing
the cancellation or change of the assumed name, and




(b)

publish in the prescribed manner a notice of the cancellation or
change of the assumed name.






Liability if name of extraprovincial company not displayed




384

(1)


A director or officer of an extraprovincial company who knowingly
permits the extraprovincial company to contravene section 27 (1) (a),
(b) or (c) is personally liable to indemnify any of the following
persons who suffer loss or damage as a result of being misled by that
contravention:




(a)

a purchaser of goods or services from the extraprovincial company;




(b)

a supplier of goods or services to the extraprovincial company;




(c)

a person holding a security of the extraprovincial company.




(2)

A director or officer of an extraprovincial company who issues or
authorizes the issue of any instrument referred to in section 27 (1)
(d) that does not display the name or assumed name, as the case may
be, of the extraprovincial company is personally liable to the person
holding that instrument for the amount of it, unless it is duly paid
by the extraprovincial company.






Enforcement of duty to file records




385

(1)


If an extraprovincial company or its receiver, receiver manager or
liquidator has failed to file with the registrar any record required
to be filed with the registrar under this Act, any director,
shareholder or creditor of the extraprovincial company may provide, to
the person required to submit the record to the registrar for filing,
notice requiring that person to file the record with the registrar.




(2)

If the person required to file a record with the registrar under
subsection (1) fails to file the record with the registrar within 14
days after receipt of the notice referred to in subsection (1), the
court may, on the application of any director, shareholder or creditor
of the extraprovincial company,




(a)

order the person to file the record with the registrar within the time
the court directs, and




(b)

direct that the costs of and incidental to the application be paid by
the extraprovincial company, by any director or officer of the
extraprovincial company or by any other person the court considers
appropriate.




(3)

Neither the making of an order by the court under this section nor
compliance with such an order relieves a person from any other
liability.




Division 2 — Attorneys for Extraprovincial Companies





Attorneys to be appointed




386

(1)


An extraprovincial company must ensure that




(a)

it has one or more attorneys, or




(b)

under its charter or similar record, its head office is in British
Columbia, in which case it may have one or more attorneys.




(2)

For the purposes of this Division, each attorney for an
extraprovincial company must be




(a)

an individual who is resident in British Columbia, or




(b)

a company.




(3)

The mailing address and the delivery address of an attorney must be,




(a)

in the case of an attorney that is an individual, the mailing address
and the delivery address of the office in British Columbia at which
the individual can usually be reached during statutory business hours,
or




(b)

in the case of an attorney that is a company, the mailing address and
the delivery address of that company's registered office.






First attorneys




387


If the registration statement filed with the registrar to register a
foreign entity as an extraprovincial company identifies one or more
attorneys, the extraprovincial company has those persons as its first
attorneys, and the mailing addresses and delivery addresses for those
attorneys are the mailing addresses and delivery addresses
respectively set out for those attorneys on the registration
statement.






Authorization of attorneys




388


Each attorney for an extraprovincial company is deemed to be
authorized by the extraprovincial company




(a)

to accept service of process on its behalf in each legal proceeding by
or against it in British Columbia, and




(b)

to receive each notice to it.






Appointment of attorneys




389

(1)


An extraprovincial company may, after its registration statement has
been filed with the registrar, appoint one or more persons as
attorneys and must, after that appointment, file with the registrar a
notice of appointment of attorney in the form established by the
registrar for each attorney so appointed.




(2)

A notice of appointment of attorney filed with the registrar under
subsection (1) must set out




(a)

the full name of each attorney, and




(b)

the mailing address and the delivery address of each attorney in
accordance with section 386 (3).




(3)

A person specified in a notice of appointment of attorney filed with
the registrar under subsection (1) of this section becomes an attorney
for the appointing extraprovincial company




(a)

on the date and time that the notice of appointment of attorney is
filed with the registrar, or




(b)

subject to sections 390 and 410, if the notice of appointment of
attorney specifies a date, or a date and time, on which the
appointment of the attorney is to take effect that is later than the
date and time on which the notice of appointment of attorney is filed
with the registrar,




(i)

on the specified date and time, or




(ii)

if no time is specified, at the beginning of the specified date.




(4)

After a person becomes an attorney for an extraprovincial company
under subsection (3) of this section, the registrar must furnish to
the attorney confirmation of the appointment.






Withdrawal of appointment




390


At any time after a notice of appointment of attorney is filed with
the registrar under section 389 and before the appointment takes
effect, the extraprovincial company in respect of which the filing was
made or any other person who appears to the registrar to be an
appropriate person to do so may withdraw the notice of appointment of
attorney by filing with the registrar a notice of withdrawal in the
form established by the registrar identifying the notice of
appointment of attorney.






Change of address of attorneys




391

(1)


If there is to be a change to one or both of the mailing address and
the delivery address of an attorney for an extraprovincial company,
the extraprovincial company or the attorney may, before that change
occurs, file with the registrar a notice of change of address of
attorney in the form established by the registrar.




(2)

If there is a change to one or both of the mailing address and the
delivery address of an attorney for an extraprovincial company and if
a notice of change of address reflecting that change was not filed
under subsection (1) before that change occurred, promptly after that
change occurs, the extraprovincial company or the attorney must file
with the registrar a notice of change of address of attorney in the
form established by the registrar.




(3)

If the notice of change of address of attorney is submitted to the
registrar for filing by an attorney, the attorney must mail a copy of
the completed notice of change of address of attorney to the head
office of the extraprovincial company.




(4)

The change of address reflected in the notice of change of address of
attorney filed with the registrar under subsection (1) or (2) takes
effect,




(a)

subject to section 392, at the beginning of the day following the date
on which the notice of change of address of attorney is filed with the
registrar, or




(b)

subject to sections 392 and 410, if the notice of change of address of
attorney specifies a date on which the change of address is to take
effect that is later than the day following the date on which the
notice is filed with the registrar, at the beginning of the specified
date.






Withdrawal of notice of change of address




392


At any time after a notice of change of address of attorney is filed
with the registrar under section 391 and before the change of address
takes effect, the attorney or extraprovincial company in respect of
which the filing was made or any other person who appears to the
registrar to be an appropriate person to do so may withdraw the notice
of change of address of attorney by filing with the registrar a notice
of withdrawal in the form established by the registrar identifying the
notice of change of address of attorney.






Revocation of appointments of attorneys




393

(1)


Subject to section 386 (1), an extraprovincial company may revoke the
appointment of an attorney by filing with the registrar a notice of
revocation of appointment of attorney in the form established by the
registrar.




(2)

Subject to subsection (3) of this section, a revocation referred to in
a notice of revocation of appointment of attorney takes effect to
terminate the appointment of the attorney referred to in that record,




(a)

subject to section 394, at the beginning of the day following the date
on which the notice of revocation of appointment of attorney is filed
with the registrar, or




(b)

subject to sections 394 and 410, if the notice of revocation of
appointment of attorney specifies a date on which the revocation is to
take effect that is later than the day following the date on which the
notice is filed with the registrar, at the beginning of the specified
date.




(3)

A revocation of the appointment of an attorney does not take effect
unless and until the extraprovincial company complies with section
386.




(4)

After a revocation of the appointment of an attorney takes effect, the
registrar must furnish confirmation of the revocation of appointment
to the person whose appointment has been revoked.






Withdrawal of revocation of appointment




394


At any time after a notice of revocation of appointment of attorney is
filed with the registrar under section 393 and before the revocation
takes effect, the extraprovincial company in respect of which the
filing was made or any other person who appears to the registrar to be
an appropriate person to do so may withdraw the notice of revocation
of appointment of attorney by filing with the registrar a notice of
withdrawal in the form established by the registrar identifying the
notice of revocation of appointment of attorney.






Resignations of attorneys




395

(1)


An attorney for an extraprovincial company who intends to resign must




(a)

provide a written resignation to the extraprovincial company at its
head office at least 2 months before the date on which the resignation
is to take effect, and




(b)

promptly after complying with paragraph (a), submit to the registrar
for filing a notice of resignation of attorney in the form established
by the registrar.




(2)

After receiving a notice of resignation of attorney under subsection
(1) (b), the registrar must file that notice.




(3)

An extraprovincial company that receives a resignation under
subsection (1) (a) must, within the period of time specified in that
resignation, comply with section 386.




(4)

An attorney who files a notice of resignation of attorney with the
registrar under subsection (1) of this section ceases to be an
attorney for the extraprovincial company on the later of




(a)

the beginning of the day that is 2 months and one day after the date
on which the notice of resignation of attorney was filed with the
registrar, and




(b)

the beginning of the date specified by the notice of resignation of
attorney as the effective date for the resignation.




(5)

Despite subsection (4), if, under section 393, the extraprovincial
company revokes the appointment of a person who has filed a notice of
resignation of attorney with the registrar and that revocation takes
effect before the date on which the resignation would be effective
under subsection (4) of this section, the person ceases to be an
attorney when the revocation takes effect.






Obligation to maintain head office or attorney




396


If an event occurs or any action is taken that results in an
extraprovincial company ceasing to comply with section 386, the
extraprovincial company must, promptly after the event or action,
comply with section 386.




Division 3 — Cancellation of Registration of Extraprovincial Companies





Registrar may cancel registration of defunct extraprovincial companies




397


The registrar must cancel the registration of a foreign entity as an
extraprovincial company if




(a)

there is filed with the registrar a notice, from the person in the
foreign entity's jurisdiction whose role in that jurisdiction is
similar to the role of the registrar in British Columbia, that the
foreign entity has ceased to exist, or




(b)

the foreign entity files with the registrar a notice of ceasing to
carry on business in British Columbia in the form established by the
registrar, stating that the foreign entity has ceased to carry on
business in British Columbia.






Lieutenant Governor in Council may cancel registration of
extraprovincial companies




398

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may cancel the registration of a
foreign entity as an extraprovincial company.




(2)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may restore the registration of a
foreign entity that has had its registration as an extraprovincial
company cancelled.




(3)

This section does not apply to a federal corporation.






Registrar's duties on cancellation of registration




399


After a foreign entity's registration as an extraprovincial company is
cancelled under section 397, 398 or 422, the registrar must publish in
the prescribed manner a notice of the cancellation.




Division 4 — Designated Provinces and Extraprovincial Companies from
Designated Provinces





Definitions




399.1


In this Division:



"designated province"

means a province designated by the Lieutenant Governor in Council for
the purposes of this Division under section 399.2 (1);



"extraprovincial registrar"

means a person in a designated province who holds a position that is
equivalent to the registrar.






Power to make regulations




399.2

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may by regulation designate a
province for the purposes of this Division.




(2)

Without limiting any other authority of the Lieutenant Governor in
Council to make regulations under this Act, the Lieutenant Governor in
Council may, in relation to foreign entities from a designated
province or foreign entities from a designated province that are
registered as extraprovincial companies, make regulations as follows:




(a)

respecting the filings that must be made by foreign entities or
extraprovincial companies;




(b)

respecting registration of foreign entities as extraprovincial
companies or as amalgamated extraprovincial companies and cancellation
of registration of foreign entities as extraprovincial companies;




(c)

respecting reinstatement by the registrar of registration of foreign
entities as extraprovincial companies;




(d)

respecting liquidation, receivership and dissolution of foreign
entities registered as extraprovincial companies;




(e)

respecting changes to information on the corporate register that
relates to extraprovincial companies;




(f)

respecting changes of name of foreign entities registered as
extraprovincial companies and cancellations or changes of assumed name
of foreign entities registered as extraprovincial companies;




(g)

respecting the head office of a foreign entity registered as an
extraprovincial company and attorneys of extraprovincial companies;




(h)

respecting the form or manner in which the registrar may accept
records, filings, applications, information, forms, notices and fees




(i)

in matters governed under this section,




(ii)

in respect of foreign entities from a designated province, and




(iii)

in respect of foreign entities from a designated province that are
registered as extraprovincial companies;




(i)

exempting foreign entities or extraprovincial companies from a
provision of this Act or from a provision of a regulation made under
another section of this Act;




(j)

disapplying a provision of this Act or a provision of a regulation
made under another section of this Act in respect of foreign entities
or extraprovincial companies.




(3)

Without limiting any other authority of the Lieutenant Governor in
Council to make regulations under this Act, the Lieutenant Governor in
Council may make regulations as follows:




(a)

setting out the powers and duties of the registrar in relation to




(i)

matters governed by regulations made under this section,




(ii)

foreign entities from a designated province, and




(iii)

foreign entities from a designated province that are registered as
extraprovincial companies;




(b)

in relation to companies, respecting the form or manner in which the
registrar may collect and transmit records, filings, applications,
information, forms, notices and fees to or for an extraprovincial
registrar.




(4)

A regulation under subsection (2) or (3) may




(a)

require that a form be one established by the registrar or allow a
form to be one established by the registrar, and




(b)

confer a discretion on, or delegate a matter to, the registrar.




(5)

If there is a conflict or an inconsistency between a regulation made
under this section and a provision of this Act or a provision of a
regulation made under another section of this Act, the regulation made
under this section prevails.






Registrar may enter into agreement




399.3


The registrar may enter into an agreement with an extraprovincial
registrar in relation to companies recognized under this Act, foreign
entities from the designated province and foreign entities from the
designated province that are registered as extraprovincial companies,
to address the following matters:




(a)

the collection by the extraprovincial registrar of records, filings,
applications, forms, notices, fees or information required under this
Act;




(b)

the collection by the registrar of records, filings, applications,
forms, notices, fees or information required under an enactment
similar to this Act;




(c)

the transmission of the matters referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b)
from the extraprovincial registrar to the registrar and from the
registrar to the extraprovincial registrar;




(d)

the powers and duties of the registrar and the extraprovincial
registrar in relation to a matter referred to in paragraph (a), (b),
(c) or (e);




(e)

any related matter that the registrar determines is appropriately
included in the agreement.




Contents
|


Part 1
|


Part 2
|


Part 2.1
|


Part 2.2
|


Part 2.3
|


Part 3
|


Part 4
|


Part 4.1
|


Part 5
|


Part 6
|


Part 7
|


Part 8
|


Part 9
|


Part 10
|

Part 11 |

Part 12
|


Part 13
|


Part 14
|


Schedule




