





View Complete Statute



Election Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 106



Part 3 — Calling an Election





Order for a general election




24

(1)


For a general election to be held, the Lieutenant Governor in Council
must issue an order under this section that




(a)

directs the chief electoral officer to issue writs of election for all
electoral districts,




(b)

sets the date of issue for the writs of election, which must be the
same for all writs,




(c)

specifies the final voting day for the election in accordance with
section 27 of this Act and section 23 of the

Constitution Act

, and




(d)

directs that the writs of election be returned in accordance with this
Act.




(2)

If a general election is called before final voting day for a
by-election that is in progress, the by-election is cancelled and the
election for that electoral district is to take place as part of the
general election.






Order for a by-election




25

(1)


On receiving a warrant under the

Constitution Act

for a by-election, the chief electoral officer must notify the
Lieutenant Governor in Council for the purposes of allowing the writ
of election to be issued within the time limit established by that
Act.




(2)

For a by-election to be held, the Lieutenant Governor in Council must
issue an order that




(a)

directs the chief electoral officer to issue a writ of election for
the electoral district,




(b)

sets the date of issue for the writ of election,




(c)

specifies the final voting day for the election in accordance with
section 27, and




(d)

directs that the writ of election be returned in accordance with this
Act.






Election called when writ of election issued




26

(1)


On receiving an order of the Lieutenant Governor in Council under
section 24 or 25, the chief electoral officer must




(a)

issue the writ or writs of election in accordance with the order,




(b)

transmit each writ to the district electoral officer to whom it is
addressed, and




(c)

arrange for the writ or writs to be published in the Gazette.




(2)

A writ of election must be substantially in the form of Form 1 as set
out in the Schedule to this Act and must include the following:




(a)

the dates for the start and end of the nomination period for
nominations under section 56;




(b)

the date of final voting day for the election;




(c)

the day for the return of the writ, being the date on or before which
the district electoral officer is to certify to the chief electoral
officer the name of the individual elected as member of the
Legislative Assembly.




(3)

For the purposes of this Act, an election is called when the writ for
the election is issued in accordance with the applicable order of the
Lieutenant Governor in Council under section 24 or 25.






Final voting day




27

(1)


Final voting day for an election,




(a)

in the case of a general election conducted in accordance with section
23 (2) or (3) of the

Constitution Act

, and in the case of a by-election, is the twenty-eighth day after the
date on which the election is called, and




(b)

in the case of a general election that is not conducted in accordance
with section 23 (2) or (3) of the

Constitution Act

, subject to subsection (3) of this section, is at least the
thirty-second day but no later than the thirty-eighth day after the
date on which the election is called.




(2)

Final voting day for a general election described in subsection
(1) (a) must occur on a Saturday.




(3)

Final voting day for a general election described in subsection
(1) (b) must occur on a Saturday, and the date under subsection
(1) (b) is to be determined accordingly.




(4)

As an exception to subsections (2) and (3), if the day under
subsection (1) falls on a holiday, final voting day is the next day
that is not a holiday.






Notice of election




28

(1)


As soon as possible after an election is called, the chief electoral
officer must publish or direct the district electoral officer to
publish a notice of election in accordance with section 270.




(2)

The notice of election must include the following:




(a)

the dates, times and places at which nominations will be received by
the district electoral officer during the nomination period;




(b)

how interested individuals can obtain information on the requirements
and procedures for making a nomination;




(c)

the dates and voting hours for final voting and advance voting, in the
event that an election by voting is required;




(d)

any other information the chief electoral officer considers should be
included.




(3)

The notice of election must also be posted in the office of the
district electoral officer throughout the nomination period.




(4)

The chief electoral officer may direct or authorize the district
electoral officer to provide for additional notice of the election to
be given to the public.




Contents
|


Part 1
|


Part 2
|

Part 3 |

Part 4
|


Part 5
|


Part 6
|


Part 7
|


Part 8
|


Part 9
|


Part 10
|



Part 10.1

|


Part 11
|


Part 12
|


Part 13
|


Schedule




