




Partnership Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 348




Part 1 — Interpretation





Definitions




1


In this Act:


"business"
includes every trade, occupation or profession;



"business name"

means,




(a)

in the case of a firm, its firm name, and




(b)

in the case of a sole proprietorship, the name under which its
business is carried on or is to be carried on;


"firm"
is the collective term for persons who have entered into partnership
with one another;


"firm name"
means the name under which the business of a firm is carried on or is
to be carried on;



"general partnership"

means a partnership that




(a)

has British Columbia as its governing jurisdiction, and




(b)

is neither a limited partnership nor a limited liability partnership;



"governing jurisdiction"

means, in relation to a partnership, the jurisdiction the laws of
which govern the interpretation of the partnership agreement;



"principal place of business"

means the principal premises in British Columbia where the business is
or is to be carried on;


"registrar"
means the registrar of companies appointed under the

Business Corporations Act

;



"sole proprietorship"

means a person who under section 88 (1) is required to file a
registration statement;



"writ of execution"

includes an order for seizure and sale issued under the Small Claims
Rules.




Part 2 — The Nature of Partnership





Definitions




1.1


In this Part:


"court"
includes every court and judge having jurisdiction in the case;



"partnership property"

means property and rights and interests in property




(a)

originally brought into the partnership stock,




(b)

acquired, whether by purchase or otherwise, on account of the firm, or




(c)

acquired for the purposes and in the course of the partnership
business.






Partnership defined




2


Partnership is the relation which subsists between persons carrying on
business in common with a view of profit.






Persons who are not a partnership




3


The relation between members of a company or association that is




(a)

incorporated under an Act for the time being in force and relating to
the incorporation of joint stock companies, or licensed or registered
under an Act relating to the licensing or registration of
extraprovincial companies, or




(b)

formed or incorporated by or under any other statute or letters patent
or Royal Charter


is not a partnership within the meaning of this Act.






Rules for determining partnership




4


In determining whether a partnership does or does not exist, regard
must be had to the following rules:




(a)

joint tenancy, tenancy in common, joint property, common property or
part ownership does not of itself create a partnership as to any
property that is so held or owned, whether the tenants or owners do or
do not share any profits made by the use of the property;




(b)

the sharing of gross returns does not of itself create a partnership,
whether the persons sharing the returns have or have not a joint or
common right or interest in property from which or from the use of
which the returns are derived;




(c)

the receipt by a person of a share of the profits of a business is
proof in the absence of evidence to the contrary that the person is a
partner in the business, but the receipt of a share, or of a payment
contingent on or varying with the profits of a business, does not of
itself make that person a partner in the business, and in particular




(i)

the receipt by a person of a debt or other liquidated amount by
instalments or otherwise out of the accruing profits of a business
does not of itself make the person a partner in the business or liable
as a partner,




(ii)

a contract for the remuneration of an employee or agent of a person
engaged in a business by a share of the profits of the business does
not of itself make the employee or agent a partner in the business or
liable as a partner,




(iii)

the spouse or child of a deceased partner who receives by way of
annuity a portion of the profits made in the business in which the
deceased person was a partner is not merely because of the receipt a
partner in the business or liable as a partner,




(iv)

the advance of money by way of loan to a person engaged or about to
engage in a business, on a contract between that person and the lender
under which the lender is to receive a rate of interest varying with
the profits or is to receive a share of the profits arising from
carrying on the business, does not of itself make the lender a partner
with the person carrying on the business or liable as a partner, as
long as the contract is in writing and signed by or on behalf of all
the parties to it, and




(v)

a person receiving by way of annuity or otherwise a portion of the
profits of a business in consideration of the sale by the person of
the goodwill of the business is not, merely because of the receipt, a
partner in the business or liable as a partner.






Creditors priorities after loan or sale of goodwill




5


If a person to whom money has been advanced by way of loan on a
contract referred to in section 4, or if a buyer of a goodwill in
consideration of a share of the profits of the business, is insolvent
and enters into an arrangement to pay the person's creditors less than
100¢ on the dollar, or dies in insolvent circumstances, the lender of
the loan is not entitled to recover anything in respect of that loan,
and the seller of the goodwill is not entitled to recover anything in
respect of the share of profits contracted for, until the claims of
the other creditors of the borrower or buyer for valuable
consideration in money or money's worth have been satisfied.






Repealed




6


[Repealed 2012-12-82.]






Liability of partners




7

(1)


A partner is an agent of the firm and the other partners for the
purpose of the business of the partnership.




(2)

The acts of every partner who does any act for carrying on in the
usual way business of the kind carried on by the firm of which the
partner is a member bind the firm and the partner's partners, unless




(a)

the partner so acting has in fact no authority to act for the firm in
the particular matter, and




(b)

the person with whom the partner is dealing either knows that the
partner has no authority, or does not know or believe the partner to
be a partner.






Acts or instruments in firm name




8

(1)


An act or instrument relating to the business of the firm and done or
executed in the firm name, or in any other manner showing an intention
to bind the firm, by any person authorized to do so, whether a partner
or not, is binding on the firm and all the partners.




(2)

This section does not affect any general rule of law relating to the
execution of deeds or negotiable instruments.






No pledge of credit for nonfirm business




9

(1)


If one partner pledges the credit of the firm for a purpose apparently
not connected with the firm's ordinary course of business, the firm is
not bound unless the partner is in fact specially authorized by the
other partners.




(2)

This section does not affect any personal liability incurred by an
individual partner.






Notice of restriction of power of partner




10


If it has been agreed between the partners that a restriction is to be
placed on the power of any one or more of them to bind the firm, an
act done in contravention of the agreement is not binding on the firm
with respect to persons having notice of the agreement.






Liability of partners for firm debts




11


A partner in a firm is liable jointly with the other partners for all
debts and obligations of the firm incurred while the partner is a
partner, and after the partner's death the partner's estate is also
severally liable in a due course of administration for those debts and
obligations, so far as they remain unsatisfied, but subject to the
prior payment of the partner's separate debts.






Liability of firm




12


If, by any wrongful act or omission of any partner acting in the
ordinary course of the business of the firm or with the authority of
the partner's partners, loss or injury is caused to any person who is
not a partner in the firm or any penalty is incurred, the firm is
liable for that loss, injury or penalty to the same extent as the
partner so acting or omitting to act.






Liability for misapplication




13


A firm must make good any loss arising in the following cases:




(a)

if one partner acting within the scope of that partner's apparent
authority receives the money or property of a third person and
misapplies it;




(b)

if a firm in the course of its business receives money or property of
a third person, and the money or property so received is misapplied by
one or more of the partners while it is in the custody of the firm.






Liability under 2 preceding sections




14


A partner is jointly and severally liable with the partner's partners
for everything for which the firm, while that partner is a partner in
it, becomes liable under either section 12 or 13.






Liability for trust funds




15

(1)


If a partner, who is a trustee, improperly employs trust property in
the business or on the account of the partnership, no other partner is
liable for the trust property to the persons beneficially interested
in it.




(2)

This section does not affect any liability that is incurred by any
partner because of the partner's having notice of a breach of trust.




(3)

Nothing in this section prevents trust money from being followed and
recovered from the firm if it is still in its possession or under its
control.






Person representing themselves as partner




16

(1)


A person who, by words spoken or written, or by conduct, represents
themselves, or who knowingly allows themselves to be represented, as a
partner in a particular firm is liable as a partner to any one who
has, on the faith of any such representation, given credit to the
firm.




(2)

Subsection (1) applies whether the representation has or has not been
made or communicated to the person so giving credit by or with the
knowledge of the apparent partner making the representation or
allowing it to be made.




(3)

If, after a partner's death, the partnership business is continued in
the old firm name, the continued use of that name, or of the deceased
partner's name, as part of it does not of itself make the deceased
partner's executor's or administrator's estate or effects liable for
any partnership debts contracted after the deceased partner's death.






Partner's evidence




17


An admission or representation made by any partner concerning the
partnership affairs, if made in the ordinary course of its business,
is evidence against the firm.






Notice to partner




18


Notice to any partner who habitually acts in the partnership business
of any matter relating to partnership affairs operates as notice to
the firm, except in the case of a fraud on the firm committed by or
with the consent of that partner.






Liability of partners




19

(1)


A person who is admitted as a partner into an existing firm does not
become liable to the creditors of the firm for anything done before
the person became a partner.




(2)

A partner who retires from a firm does not cease to be liable for
partnership debts or obligations incurred before the partner's
retirement.




(3)

A retiring partner may be discharged from any existing liabilities by
an agreement to that effect between the retiring partner and the
members of the firm as newly constituted and the creditors.




(4)

An agreement under subsection (3) may be either express or inferred as
a fact from the course of dealing between the creditors and the firm
as newly constituted.






Effect of change in constitution on guaranty




20


A continuing guaranty or cautionary obligation given to a firm or to a
third person in respect of the transactions of a firm is, in the
absence of agreement to the contrary, revoked as to future
transactions by any change in the constitution of the firm to which,
or of the firm in respect of the transactions of which, the guaranty
or obligation was given.






Variation of rights and duties by consent




21


The mutual rights and duties of partners, whether ascertained by
agreement or defined by this Part, may be varied by the consent of all
the partners and the consent may be either express or inferred from a
course of dealing.






Fairness and good faith




22

(1)


A partner must act with the utmost fairness and good faith towards the
other members of the firm in the business of the firm.




(2)

The duties imposed by this section are in addition to, and not in
derogation of, any enactment or rule of law or equity relating to the
duties or liabilities of partners.






Application of partnership property




23

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), all partnership property must be held and
applied by the partners exclusively for the purposes of the
partnership and in accordance with the partnership agreement.




(2)

The legal estate or interest in land that belongs to the partnership
devolves according to its nature and tenure and the general rules of
law applicable to it, but in trust so far as necessary, for the
persons beneficially interested in the land under this section.




(3)

If co-owners of an estate or interest in any land, that is not
partnership property, are partners as to profits made by the use of
that land or estate, and purchase other land or estate out of the
profits to be used in a similar manner, the land or estate so
purchased belongs to them, in the absence of an agreement to the
contrary, not as partners, but as co-owners for the same respective
estates and interests as are held by them in the land or estate first
mentioned at the date of the purchase.






Property bought with firm money




24


Unless the contrary intention appears, property bought with money
belonging to a firm is deemed to have been bought on account of the
firm.






Partnership property treated as personalty




25


If land or any heritable interest in it has become partnership
property, it must, unless the contrary intention appears, be treated
as between the partners, including the representative of a deceased
partner, and also as between the heirs of a deceased partner and the
deceased partner's executors or administrators, as personal or movable
and not real or heritable estate.






Execution against partnership property




26

(1)


A writ of execution must not issue against partnership property except
on a judgment against the firm.




(2)

The Supreme Court within its territorial jurisdiction, may,




(a)

on the application by summons of any judgment creditor of a partner,
make an order charging that partner's interest in the partnership
property and profits with payment of the amount of the judgment debt
and interest on it, and




(b)

by the same or a subsequent order appoint a receiver of that partner's
share of profits, whether already declared or accruing, and of any
other money that may be coming to that partner in respect of the
partnership, and direct all accounts and inquiries, and give all other
orders and directions that might have been directed or given if the
charge had been made in favour of the judgment creditor by the
partner, or that the circumstances of the case may require.




(3)

The other partner or partners is or are at liberty at any time to
redeem the interest charged, or, in case of a sale being directed, to
purchase it.






Rules for determining rights and duties of partners in relation to
partnership




27


Subject to any agreement express or implied between the partners, the
interests of partners in the partnership property and their rights and
duties in relation to the partnership must be determined by the
following rules:




(a)

all the partners are entitled to share equally in the capital and
profits of the business and must contribute equally towards the
losses, whether of capital or otherwise, sustained by the firm;




(b)

the firm must indemnify every partner in respect of payments made and
personal liabilities incurred by the partner




(i)

in the ordinary and proper conduct of the business of the firm, or




(ii)

in or about anything necessarily done for the preservation of the
business or property of the firm;




(c)

a partner making, for the purpose of the partnership, any actual
payment or advance beyond the amount of capital that the partner has
agreed to subscribe is entitled to interest at a fair rate from the
date of the payment or advance;




(d)

a partner is not entitled, before the ascertainment of profits, to
interest on the capital subscribed by the partner;




(e)

every partner may take part in the management of the partnership
business;




(f)

a partner is not entitled to remuneration for acting in the
partnership business;




(g)

a person may not be introduced as a partner without the consent of all
existing partners;




(h)

any difference arising as to ordinary matters connected with the
partnership business may be decided by a majority of the partners, but
no change may be made in the nature of the partnership business
without the consent of all existing partners;




(i)

the partnership books are to be kept at the place of business of the
partnership, or the principal place, if there is more than one, and
every partner may, when the partner thinks fit, have access to and
inspect and copy any of them;




(j)

a partner may refer a difference concerning the interpretation or
application of the partnership agreement to arbitration for a final
and binding decision under the

Arbitration Act

.






Majority cannot expel partner




28


A majority of the partners can not expel any partner unless a power to
do so has been conferred by express agreement between the partners and
the power is exercised in good faith.






Ending the partnership




29

(1)


If no set term has been agreed on for the duration of the partnership,
any partner may end the partnership at any time on giving notice to
all the other partners of the partner's intention to do so.




(2)

If the partnership has originally been constituted by deed, a notice
in writing, signed by the partner giving it, is sufficient for this
purpose.






Continuation of partnership after expiry




30

(1)


If a partnership entered into for a set term is continued after the
term has expired, and without any express new agreement, the rights
and duties of the partners remain the same as they were at the
expiration of the term, so far as is consistent with the incidents of
the partnership at will.




(2)

A continuance of the business by the partners or those of them as
habitually acted in it during the term, without any settlement or
liquidation of the partnership affairs, is presumed to be a
continuance of the partnership.






Partners must render accounts




31


Partners are bound to render true accounts and full information of all
things affecting the partnership to any partner or the partner's legal
representatives.






Partner must account for benefits




32

(1)


A partner must account to the firm for any benefit derived by the
partner without the consent of the other partners from any transaction
concerning the partnership, or from any use by the partner of the
partnership property, name or business connection.




(2)

This section applies also to transactions undertaken, after a
partnership has been dissolved by the death of a partner and before
the affairs of the partnership have been completely wound up, by any
surviving partner or by the representatives of the deceased partner.






Profits of partner carrying on similar business




33


If a partner, without the consent of the other partners, carries on
any business of the same nature as and competing with that of the
firm, the partner must account for and pay over to the firm all
profits made by that partner in that business.






Assignment by partner of a share




34

(1)


An assignment by any partner of the partner's share in the
partnership, either absolute or by way of mortgage or redeemable
charge, does not, as against the other partners, entitle the assignee,
during the continuance of the partnership, to interfere in the
management or administration of the partnership business or affairs,
or to require any accounts of the partnership transactions or to
inspect the partnership books, but entitles the assignee only to
receive the share of profits to which the assigning partner would
otherwise be entitled, and the assignee must accept the account of
profits agreed to by the partners.




(2)

In case of a dissolution of the partnership, whether as respects all
the partners or as respects the assigning partner, the assignee is
entitled to receive the share of the partnership assets to which the
assigning partner is entitled as between that partner and the other
partners and, for the purpose of ascertaining that share, to an
account as from the date of the dissolution.




(3)

The assignee may enforce the assignee's rights under subsection (2)
against the assigning partner, the other partners, or both.






Dissolution of partnership




35

(1)


Subject to any agreement between the partners, a partnership is
dissolved




(a)

if entered into for a set term, by the expiration of that term,




(b)

if entered into for a single adventure or undertaking, by the
termination of that adventure or undertaking, or




(c)

if entered into for an undefined time, by any partner giving notice to
the other or others of the partner's intention to dissolve the
partnership.




(2)

In a case referred to in subsection (1) (c) the partnership is
dissolved as from the date mentioned in the notice as the date of
dissolution or, if no date is so mentioned, as from the date of the
communication of the notice.






Dissolution by bankruptcy, death, dissolution of partner or charging
order




36

(1)


On the death, bankruptcy or dissolution of a partner,




(a)

a partnership of 2 partners is dissolved, and




(b)

subject to agreement among the partners, a partnership of more than 2
partners is dissolved as between the bankrupt, dead or dissolved
partner and the other partners.




(2)

If the share in the partnership property of a partner is charged under
section 26 for the separate debt of the partner, the other partners
may by notice in writing to the partner whose share is charged,




(a)

dissolve the partnership, or




(b)

if there are 3 or more partners, dissolve the partnership as between
the partner whose share is charged and the other partners.




(3)

A notice under subsection (2) takes effect at the time specified in
the notice or immediately if no time is specified.






Dissolution by event making business unlawful




37


A partnership is in every case dissolved by the happening of any event
which makes it unlawful for the business of the firm to be carried on,
or for the members of the firm to carry it on, in partnership.






Power of court to decree dissolution in certain cases




38

(1)


On application by a partner, the court may decree a dissolution of the
partnership in any of the following cases:




(a)

if a partner is declared under the

Patients Property Act

to be incapable of managing the partner's affairs or if it is shown
that a partner is, because of mental infirmity, incapable of
discharging the partner's duties as a partner;




(b)

when a partner, other than the partner suing, becomes in any other way
permanently incapable of performing the partner's part of the
partnership contract;




(c)

when a partner, other than the partner suing, has been guilty of
conduct that, in the opinion of the court, regard being had to the
nature of the business, is calculated to affect prejudicially the
carrying on of the business;




(d)

when a partner, other than the partner suing, wilfully or persistently
commits a breach of the partnership agreement or otherwise so conducts
themselves in matters relating to the partnership business that it is
not reasonably practicable for the other partner or partners to carry
on the business in partnership with the partner;




(e)

when the business of the partnership can only be carried on at a loss;




(f)

whenever circumstances have arisen that, in the opinion of the court,
render it just and equitable that the partnership be dissolved.




(2)

If there are 3 or more partners, the partnership may be dissolved or
may be dissolved as between the partner whose condition or conduct
gave rise to the application and the remaining partners.






Change in firm




39

(1)


If a person deals with a firm after a change in its constitution, the
person is entitled to treat all apparent members of the old firm as
still being members of the firm until the person has notice of the
change.




(2)

An advertisement in the Gazette as to a firm is notice to persons who
had no dealings with the firm before the date of the advertised
dissolution or change.




(3)

The estate of a partner who dies or who becomes insolvent, or of a
partner who, not having been known to the person dealing with the firm
to be a partner, retires from the firm, is not liable for partnership
debts contracted after the date of the death, insolvency or
retirement.






Dissolution




40


On the dissolution of a partnership or the retirement of a partner,
any partner may publicly notify the other partners or the retiring
partner and may require the other partner or partners to concur for
that purpose in all necessary or proper acts, if any, that cannot be
done without the concurrence of the partner or partners.






Authority of partners after dissolution




41

(1)


Subject to subsections (2) and (3), after the dissolution of a
partnership, the authority of each partner to bind the firm and the
other rights and obligations of the partners continue despite the
dissolution so far as may be necessary to wind up the affairs of the
partnership, and to complete transactions begun but unfinished at the
time of the dissolution, but not otherwise.




(2)

The firm is not bound by the acts of a partner who has become
insolvent.




(3)

Subsection (2) does not affect the liability of any person who has
after the insolvency represented themselves or knowingly allowed
themselves to be represented as a partner of the insolvent.






Application of assets on dissolution




42

(1)


On the dissolution of a partnership, every partner is entitled, as
against the other partners in the firm and all persons claiming
through them in respect of their interests as partners,




(a)

to have the property of the partnership applied in payment of the
debts and liabilities of the firm, and




(b)

to have the surplus assets after the payment applied in payment of
what may be due to the partners respectively after deducting what may
be due from them as partners to the firm.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1), any partner or the partner's
representatives may, on the termination of the partnership, apply to
the court to wind up the business and affairs of the firm.






Return of premium




43


If one partner has paid a premium to another on entering into a
partnership for a set term, and the partnership is dissolved before
the expiration of that term otherwise than by the death of a partner,
the court may order the repayment of the premium, or of a part of it
as it thinks just, having regard to the terms of the partnership
contract and to the length of time during which the partnership has
continued, unless




(a)

the dissolution is, in the judgment of the court, wholly or chiefly
due to the misconduct of the partner who paid the premium, or




(b)

the partnership has been dissolved by an agreement containing no
provision for a return of any part of the premium.






Rescission of partnership for fraud




44


If a partnership contract is rescinded on the ground of the fraud or
misrepresentation of one of the parties to it, the party entitled to
rescind is, without prejudice to any other right, entitled




(a)

to a lien on, or a right to retention of, the surplus of the
partnership assets, after satisfying the partnership liabilities, for
any sum of money paid by the party for the purchase of a share in the
partnership and for any capital contributed by the party,




(b)

to stand in the place of the creditors of the firm for any payments
made by the party in respect of the partnership liabilities, and




(c)

to be indemnified by the person committing the fraud or making the
representation against all the debts and liabilities of the firm.






Rights where partnership dissolved by death or retirement




45

(1)


Subject to subsections (2) and (3), if any member of a firm has died
or otherwise ceased to be a partner, and the surviving or continuing
partners carry on the business of the firm with its capital or assets
without any final settlement of accounts as between the firm and the
outgoing partner or the outgoing partner's estate, then, in the
absence of any agreement to the contrary, the outgoing partner or the
outgoing partner's estate is entitled, at the option of the outgoing
partner or the outgoing partner's representatives, to




(a)

the share of the profits made since the dissolution that the court may
find to be attributable to the use of the outgoing partner's share of
the partnership assets, or




(b)

interest at a fair rate on the amount of the outgoing partner's share
of the partnership assets.




(2)

If, by the partnership contract, an option is given to surviving or
continuing partners to purchase the interest of a deceased or outgoing
partner and that option is exercised, the estate of the deceased
partner, or the outgoing partner or the outgoing partner's estate is
not entitled to any further or other share of profits.




(3)

If any partner, assuming to act in exercise of an option referred to
in this section, does not in all material respects comply with the
terms of it, the partner is liable to account under this section.






Debts at date of dissolution or death




46


Subject to any agreement between the partners, the amount due from
surviving or continuing partners to an outgoing partner, or the
representatives of a deceased partner, in respect of the outgoing or
deceased partner's share, is a debt accruing at the date of the
dissolution or death.






Settlement of accounts on dissolution




47


Subject to any agreement, in settling accounts between the partners
after a dissolution of partnership, the following rules must be
observed:




(a)

losses, including losses and deficiencies of capital, must be paid
first out of profits, next out of capital, and lastly, if necessary,
by the partners individually in the proportion in which they were
entitled to share profits;




(b)

the assets of the firm, including the sums, if any, contributed by the
partners to make up losses or deficiencies of capital, must be applied
in the following manner and order:




(i)

in paying the debts and liabilities of the firm to persons who are not
partners;




(ii)

in paying to each partner rateably what is due from the firm to that
partner for advances as distinguished from capital;




(iii)

in paying to each partner rateably what is due from the firm to that
partner in respect of capital;




(iv)

the ultimate residue, if any, must be divided among the partners in
the proportion in which profits are divisible.




Part 3 — Limited Partnerships





Definitions




48


In this Part:



"certificate"

means a certificate filed under section 51 and includes all amendments
made to the certificate;



"executive director"

means the executive director appointed under section 8 of the

Securities Act

;



"partnership agreement"

includes all amendments made to the agreement;



"reporting issuer"

means reporting issuer as defined in the

Securities Act

.






Application of Part




49


The provisions of this Act must in the case of limited partnerships be
read subject to this Part.






Limited partnership




50

(1)


Subject to this Part, a limited partnership may be formed to carry on
any business that a partnership without limited partners may carry on.




(2)

A limited partnership consists of




(a)

one or more persons who are general partners, and




(b)

one or more persons who are limited partners.






Formation of limited partnership




51

(1)


A limited partnership is formed when there is filed with the registrar
a certificate, signed by each person who is, on the formation of the
partnership, to be a general partner.




(2)

A certificate must be in the form established by the registrar and
must state the following:




(a)

the name that is reserved under section 89, by way of a reservation
that is in effect when the certificate is filed, to be the firm name
of the limited partnership;




(a.1)

the location, when the certificate is filed, of the registered office
required by section 54;




(b)

the general nature of the business carried on or intended to be
carried on;




(c)

the full name and residential address of each general partner or, in
the case of a general partner other than an individual, the name and
address in British Columbia;




(d)

the term for which the limited partnership is to exist;




(e)

the aggregate amount of cash and the nature and fair value of any
other property to be contributed by all of the limited partners;




(f)

the aggregate amount of any additional contributions agreed to be made
by limited partners and the times at which or events on the happening
of which the additional contributions are to be made;




(g)

the basis on which limited partners are to be entitled to share
profits or receive other compensation by way of income on their
contributions.




(3)

A certificate may state the full name and last known residential
address of a limited partner or, in the case of a limited partner
other than an individual, the name and address in British Columbia.




(4)

If a partnership agreement contains provisions respecting any of the
following, the certificate filed in respect of that agreement must
also contain provisions respecting those matters:




(a)

the times when contributions of limited partners are to be returned;




(b)

the right of a limited partner to substitute an assignee as
contributor in the limited partner's place, and the terms and
conditions of the substitution;




(c)

the right to admit additional limited partners;




(d)

the extent to which one or more of the limited partners has greater
rights than the others;




(e)

the right of a remaining general partner to continue the business on
the bankruptcy, death, retirement, mental incompetence or dissolution
of a general partner;




(f)

the right of a limited partner to demand and receive property other
than cash in return for the limited partner's contribution;




(g)

the right of the limited partners or any of them to admit an
additional general partner to the partnership or to permit or require
a general partner to retire from the partnership.






General and limited partners




52

(1)


A person may be a general partner and a limited partner at the same
time in the same limited partnership.




(2)

A person who is at the same time a general partner and a limited
partner has the same rights and powers and is subject to the same
restrictions as a general partner but in respect of the person's
contribution as a limited partner, the person has the rights against
the other partners that the person would have had if the person were
not also a general partner.






Name of partnership




53

(1)


The firm name of each limited partnership must end with the words
"Limited Partnership" in full or the French language equivalent.




(2)

The surname of a limited partner must not appear in the firm name of
the limited partnership unless




(a)

that surname is also the surname of one of the general partners, or




(b)

the business of the limited partnership has been carried on under that
name before the admission of that partner as a limited partner.




(3)

The corporate name or a significant part of the corporate name of a
limited partner must not appear in the firm name of a limited
partnership unless the business of the limited partnership has been
carried on under that name before the admission of that corporate
partner as a limited partner.




(4)

A limited partner whose surname or corporate name appears in the firm
name contrary to subsection (2) or (3) is liable as a general partner
to any creditor of the limited partnership who has extended the credit
without actual knowledge that the limited partner is not a general
partner.






Registered office




54

(1)


A limited partnership must have a registered office in British
Columbia.




(2)

A limited partnership must keep at its registered office




(a)

a register showing in alphabetical order for each limited partner




(i)

the full name and last known residential address of each limited
partner or, in the case of a limited partner other than an individual,
the name and address in British Columbia, and




(ii)

if the participation by limited partners is defined by percentage
interests or by the number of units or other similar rights held by
them, the percentage interest or the number and class of units or
other rights held,




(b)

a copy of the certificate of limited partnership and each amendment
made to it, and




(c)

a copy of the partnership agreement and each amendment made to it.




(3)

Subject to subsection (4), the records kept under subsection (2) must
be available for inspection and copying during ordinary business hours
at the request of a partner and, in the case of the list of names and
addresses of the partners, any other person.




(4)

The records kept under subsection (2) by a limited partnership that is
a reporting issuer must be available for inspection and copying during
ordinary business hours at the request of any person.




(5)

[Repealed 2012-12-85.]






Contribution of limited partner




55

(1)


A limited partner may contribute money and other property to the
limited partnership, but not services.




(2)

A limited partner's interest in the limited partnership is personal
property.






Rights of general partners




56


A general partner in a limited partnership has all the rights and
powers and is subject to all the restrictions and liabilities of a
partner in a partnership without limited partners except that, without
the written consent to or ratification of the specific act by all the
limited partners, a general partner has no authority to do any of the
following:




(a)

to do an act which makes it impossible to carry on the business of the
limited partnership;




(b)

to consent to a judgment against the limited partnership;




(c)

to possess limited partnership property, or to dispose of any rights
in limited partnership property, for other than a partnership purpose;




(d)

to admit a person as a general partner or to admit a person as a
limited partner, unless the right to do so is given in the
certificate;




(e)

to continue the business of the limited partnership on the bankruptcy,
death, retirement, mental incompetence or dissolution of a general
partner, unless the right to do so is given in the certificate.






Liability of limited partner




57


Except as provided in this Part, a limited partner is not liable for
the obligations of the limited partnership except in respect of the
amount of property the limited partner contributes or agrees to
contribute to the capital of the limited partnership.






Rights of limited partner




58

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), a limited partner has the same right as a
general partner to do any of the following:




(a)

to inspect and make copies of or take extracts from the limited
partnership books at all times;




(b)

to be given, on demand, true and full information of all things
affecting the limited partnership and to be given a formal account of
partnership affairs whenever circumstances render it just and
reasonable;




(c)

to obtain dissolution and winding up of the limited partnership by
court order.




(2)

The executive director may, in whole or in part, exempt a limited
partnership from the rights granted under subsection (1) (a) or (b) or
both if the executive director considers that it is in the public
interest to do so.






Share of profits




59

(1)


Subject to this Act and the partnership agreement, a limited partner
has the right




(a)

to a share of the profits or other compensation by way of income, and




(b)

to have the limited partner's contribution to the limited partnership
returned.




(2)

A limited partner may receive from the limited partnership the share
of the profits or the compensation by way of income stipulated for in
the certificate if, after payment is made, whether from the property
of the limited partnership or that of a general partner, the limited
partnership assets exceed all the limited partnership liabilities,
except liabilities to limited partners on account of their
contributions and to general partners.






Business dealings by partner with partnership




60

(1)


A limited partner may lend money to, borrow money from and transact
business with the limited partnership.




(2)

Unless the limited partner is also a general partner, a limited
partner having, with respect to anything done under subsection (1), a
claim against the assets of the limited partnership may receive a
proportionate share of the assets along with other creditors.




(3)

For the purposes of this section, a claim described in subsection (2)
does not include a claim for a return of capital contributions.






Limited partners' rights as between themselves




61

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), limited partners, in relation to one
another, share in the limited partnership assets in respect of




(a)

their claims




(i)

for capital, and




(ii)

for profits or compensation by way of income on their contributions


in proportion to the respective amounts of their claims, and




(b)

all claims, other than those referred to in paragraph (a), equally.




(2)

If there is more than one limited partner, the partnership agreement
may provide that one or more of the limited partners is to have
greater rights than the other limited partners as to




(a)

the return of contributions,




(b)

profits or compensation by way of income on their contributions, or




(c)

any other matter.






Return of limited partner's contribution




62

(1)


A limited partner is not entitled to receive from a general partner or
out of the limited partnership property any part of the limited
partner's contribution until




(a)

all liabilities of the limited partnership, excepting liabilities to
general partners and to limited partners on account of their
contributions, have been paid or there remains sufficient limited
partnership property to pay them,




(b)

the consent of all partners is obtained, unless the return of the
contribution may be rightfully demanded under subsection (2), and




(c)

the certificate is cancelled or amended to reflect the withdrawal or
reduction.




(2)

Subject to subsection (1), a limited partner may rightfully demand the
return of the limited partner's contribution




(a)

on the dissolution of the limited partnership,




(b)

when the time specified in the certificate for its return has arrived,
or




(c)

after the limited partner has given 6 months' notice in writing to all
other partners, if no time is specified in the certificate either for
the return of the contribution or for the dissolution of the limited
partnership.




(3)

A limited partner has, despite the nature of the limited partner's
contribution, only the right to demand and receive cash in return for
it, unless




(a)

there is a statement to the contrary in the certificate, or




(b)

all the partners consent to some other manner of returning the
contribution.




(4)

A limited partner is entitled to have the limited partnership and its
affairs wound up if




(a)

the limited partner rightfully but unsuccessfully demands the return
of the limited partner's contribution, or




(b)

the other liabilities of the limited partnership have not been paid,
or the limited partnership property is insufficient for their payment
as required by subsection (1) (a), and the limited partner seeking
dissolution would otherwise be entitled to the return of the limited
partner's contribution.




(5)

If one or more partners of a limited partnership make an application
seeking to have the partnership dissolved and wound up, and if the
court considers that the applicant is entitled to the relief sought,
the court may, in addition to any other relief it may give, order on
terms it considers appropriate that, instead of dissolution and
winding up, the interest in the partnership of each partner making the
application be purchased by the partnership.






Limited partner's liability to partnership




63

(1)


A limited partner is liable to the limited partnership




(a)

for the difference, if any, between the amount of the limited
partner's contribution as actually made and the amount stated in the
certificate as having been made, and




(b)

for any unpaid contribution that the limited partner agreed in the
certificate to make in the future at the time and on the conditions,
if any, stated in the certificate.




(2)

A limited partner holds as trustee for the limited partnership




(a)

specific property stated in the certificate as contributed by the
limited partner but that has not in fact been contributed or that has
been wrongfully returned, and




(b)

money or other property wrongfully paid or conveyed to the limited
partner on account of the limited partner's contribution.




(3)

Subject to subsection (4), the liabilities of a limited partner as set
out in this section may be waived or compromised, only with the
consent of all partners.




(4)

A waiver or compromise agreed to under subsection (3) does not affect
the right of a creditor of the limited partnership to enforce a
liability arising from credit that was extended or a claim that arose




(a)

subsequent to the filing of the certificate by which the limited
partnership was formed, but




(b)

before the cancellation or amendment of the certificate by which the
waiver or compromise was effected.




(5)

If a limited partner has rightfully received the return, in whole or
in part, of the capital of the limited partner's contribution, the
limited partner is nevertheless liable to the limited partnership for
any sum, not in excess of that return with interest, necessary to
discharge the limited partnership's liabilities to all creditors who
extended credit or whose claims otherwise arose before the return.






Liability to creditors




64


A limited partner is not liable as a general partner unless the
limited partner takes part in the management of the business.






Admission of additional limited partners




65


An additional limited partner must not be admitted to a limited
partnership except in accordance with the partnership agreement and by
entry in the register under section 54 (2) (a).






Assignments




66

(1)


A limited partner must not assign the limited partner's interest, in
whole or in part, in the limited partnership unless




(a)

all the limited partners and all the general partners consent or the
partnership agreement permits it, and




(b)

the assignment is made in accordance with the terms of the consent or
partnership agreement.




(2)

An assignee of the interest, in whole or in part, of a limited partner
does not become a limited partner in the limited partnership until the
assignee's ownership of the assigned interest is entered in the
register referred to in section 54 (2) (a), and until so entered the
assignee has none of the rights of a limited partner exercisable
against the partnership or against any of the partners other than the
assignor.




(3)

Subject to subsection (4), on becoming a limited partner, an assignee
acquires the rights and powers and is subject to all the restrictions
and liabilities that the assignee's assignor had in respect of the
assigned interest immediately before the assignment.




(4)

On becoming a limited partner, an assignee does not acquire the
liabilities of the assignor of which the assignee is unaware and which
are not specified in the certificate or in the partnership agreement.




(5)

Subject to subsection (6), an assignor is not released from liability
under section 63 or 74 or from a liability referred to in
subsection (4).




(6)

Subject to subsection (4), if a limited partnership is not a reporting
issuer and an interest, in whole or in part, is assigned and at the
time that the assignment is entered under subsection (2) an unpaid
contribution in respect of it




(a)

is not due, and




(b)

has no due date set,


the assignee is solely liable for that unpaid contribution.




(7)

If a limited partnership is a reporting issuer and an interest, in
whole or in part, is to be assigned and at the time that the
assignment is to be entered under subsection (2) an unpaid
contribution in respect of it




(a)

is not due, and




(b)

has no due date set,


the executive director must require the assignor to observe any
requirement of the executive director to make the assignee aware of
that unpaid contribution, and the assignee is solely liable if the
assignor complies with that requirement, but the assignee is not
liable in any other case.






Dissolution of limited partnership




67


The bankruptcy, retirement, death, mental incompetence or dissolution
of a general partner dissolves a limited partnership unless the
business is continued by the remaining general partners




(a)

under a right specified in the certificate, or




(b)

with the consent of all the remaining partners.






Death of limited partner




68

(1)


The executor or administrator of the estate of a deceased limited
partner has




(a)

all the rights and powers of a limited partner for the purpose of
settling the estate of the deceased limited partner, and




(b)

the powers under section 66 that the deceased person held.




(2)

The estate of a deceased limited partner is liable for all the
deceased limited partner's liabilities as a limited partner.






Cancellation of certificate




69


A certificate must be cancelled when




(a)

the limited partnership is wound up, or




(b)

no person remains a limited partner in the partnership.






Amendment of certificate




70

(1)


A certificate must be amended when any of the following circumstances
occur:




(a)

there is a change in the firm name of the limited partnership or in
the amount or character of the contributions of limited partners not
provided for in the certificate;




(a.1)

there is a change in the location of the limited partnership's
registered office;




(b)

a person is added as a general partner;




(c)

a general partner becomes bankrupt, retires, dies, becomes mentally
incompetent or is dissolved and the business is continued under
section 67;




(d)

there is a change in the nature of the business of the limited
partnership;




(e)

a false or erroneous statement is discovered in the certificate;




(f)

there is a change in the time as stated in the certificate for the
dissolution of the limited partnership or for the return of a
contribution;




(g)

a time is set for the dissolution of the limited partnership or for
the return of a contribution, no time having been specified in the
certificate;




(h)

it is necessary to reflect accurately the partnership agreement as
amended from time to time.




(2)

An amendment to a certificate with respect to matters referred to in
subsection (1) or section 51 (2), (3) or (4) is not effective
until the amendment, in the form established by the registrar and
certified as correct under subsection (3) of this section, is filed
with the registrar.




(2.1)

If an amendment to a certificate is required under this section as a
result of the change of a firm name, the new firm name must be
reserved under section 89 by way of a reservation that is in effect
when the amendment is filed.




(3)

For the purposes of subsection (2), certification as correct or as
being a true copy must be made by




(a)

every general partner who is not withdrawing involuntarily, and




(b)

in the case of an amendment to substitute or add a general partner,
the person to be substituted or added.






Order directing cancellation or amendment of certificate




71

(1)


If a person designated by section 70 as being a person who must sign a
notice to cancel or amend a certificate refuses to do so, a person
desiring the cancellation or amendment may apply to the Supreme Court
for an order directing the cancellation or amendment.




(2)

On hearing an application brought under subsection (1), the court, if
it finds that the applicant is entitled to have the notice in question
signed, must by order direct the registrar to record the cancellation
or amendment of the certificate as set out in the order.






Time cancellation or amendment takes effect




72


A certificate is cancelled or amended when there is filed with and
recorded in the office of the registrar




(a)

a notice signed as required by this Part, or




(b)

a certified copy of a court order made under section 71.






Settling accounts on dissolution




73


If accounts are settled after the dissolution of a limited
partnership, the liabilities of the partnership to creditors,
excepting




(a)

to limited partners on account of their contributions, and




(b)

to general partners


must be paid first and then, subject to a statement in the certificate
or to subsequent agreement, the other liabilities of the partnership
must be paid in the following order:




(c)

to limited partners in respect of the capital of their contributions;




(d)

to limited partners in respect of their share of the profits and other
compensation by way of income on their contributions;




(e)

to general partners other than for capital and profits;




(f)

to general partners in respect of capital;




(g)

to general partners in respect of profits.






Effect of false statement in certificate




74


If a certificate contains a false statement, a person suffering loss
as a result may hold liable as a general partner every party to the
certificate who




(a)

knew when the party signed the certificate that the statement relied
on was false, or




(b)

became aware, subsequent to the time when the party signed the
certificate, but within a sufficient time before the false statement
was relied on to enable the party to have the certificate cancelled or
amended and failed to promptly have the certificate cancelled or
amended.






Liability of contributing person




75

(1)


In this section,
"contributing person"
means a person who contributes to the capital of a business conducted
by a person or partnership.




(2)

A contributing person who mistakenly believes themselves to have
become a limited partner in a limited partnership




(a)

is not, by exercising the rights of a limited partner, a general
partner with the person carrying on the business or a partner in the
partnership carrying on the business, and




(b)

is not bound by the obligations of the person or partnership carrying
on the business


if, on ascertaining the mistaken nature of the belief, the
contributing person promptly renounces any interest in the profits or
other compensation by way of income from the business.






Judgment against limited partner




76

(1)


On application by a judgment creditor of a limited partner the Supreme
Court may




(a)

charge the interest of the indebted limited partner with payment of
the unsatisfied amount of the judgment debt,




(b)

appoint a receiver of that interest, and




(c)

make all other orders, directions and inquiries that the circumstances
of the case require.




(2)

Property of a limited partnership may not be disposed of in order to
obtain the release of a charge created under subsection (1).




(3)

The remedies conferred by subsection (1) are additional to others that
may exist in law or equity.






Parties to proceedings




77


In a legal proceeding against a limited partnership it is not
necessary to name any of the limited partners.






Authority to sign




78

(1)


A general or proposed general partner or limited or proposed limited
partner may give written authority to a person to execute on the
general or proposed general partner's or limited or proposed limited
partner's behalf a document under this Part.




(2)

A document executed under an authority referred to in subsection (1)
must be filed with the registrar and a copy of the authority must be
filed with it.




(3)

Despite section 8 and unless the partnership agreement otherwise
provides, if a general partner executes a document, under seal or
otherwise, on behalf of the limited partnership or its members under
authority granted by the partnership agreement,




(a)

that general partner is conclusively deemed to have the authority
under which the general partner purports to act, and




(b)

the executed document is conclusively deemed to be validly executed.




(4)

Subsection (3) applies despite




(a)

the death or incapacity of any limited partner,




(b)

the fact that the execution of the partnership agreement by any
partner was not under seal, or




(c)

the fact that any limited partner is not named, as limited partner or
otherwise, as a party to the executed document referred to in
subsection (3) (b).






Application to existing partnerships




79

(1)


A limited partnership in existence on or before
November 24, 1978 may become a limited partnership under
this Part on the filing of a certificate under section 51 on or after
November 24, 1978 if the certificate states




(a)

the amount of the original contribution of each limited partner and
the time when the contribution was made, and




(b)

that the property of the partnership exceeds the amount sufficient to
discharge its liabilities to persons not claiming as general or
limited partners by an amount greater than the sum of the
contributions of the limited partners.




(2)

A limited partnership




(a)

in existence on or before November 24, 1978, and




(b)

that does not become a limited partnership under this Part,


continues to be governed by sections 48 to 66 of the

Partnership Act

in force on March 28, 1978 and for the purposes of this
subsection, those sections are not repealed.






Limited partnerships formed outside British Columbia




80

(1)


A limited partnership formed outside British Columbia may carry on
business in British Columbia if it is registered under this Act.




(2)

If persons form a limited partnership in and under the laws of a
jurisdiction outside British Columbia, the limited partnership must
not be registered in British Columbia under the name under which they
carry on business outside British Columbia unless




(a)

the jurisdiction is designated by the Lieutenant Governor in Council,
and




(b)

they file with the registrar




(i)

a declaration in the form established by the registrar,




(ii)

a true copy of the original certificate of limited partnership or
equivalent document and of all amendments to it verified by the proper
authority of the jurisdiction in which the limited partnership was
formed, and




(iii)

evidence to the satisfaction of the registrar that the limited
partnership still exists as a limited partnership in the jurisdiction
where it was formed.




(2.1)

A declaration submitted to the registrar for filing under subsection
(2) must state the following:




(a)

the name that is reserved under section 89, by way of a reservation
that is in effect when the declaration is filed, to be the firm name
of the limited partnership after it is registered in British Columbia;




(b)

the location, when the declaration is filed, of the registered office
required by section 54;




(c)

the general nature of the business carried on or intended to be
carried on;




(d)

the full name and residential address of each general partner who is
an individual and the name and address of each general partner who is
not an individual.




(3)

A limited partnership registered under this section or under
regulations made in accordance with Part 7 has rights and privileges
the same as but no greater than, and is subject to the same duties,
restrictions, penalties and liabilities as are imposed on, a limited
partnership formed under section 51.




Part 4 — Registration of General Partnerships and Sole Proprietorships





Definition




80.1


In this Part,
"registration statement"
means




(a)

a registration statement




(i)

in the form established by the registrar, and




(ii)

submitted to the registrar in paper form, or




(b)

information




(i)

required by the registrar for a registration, and




(ii)

submitted to the registrar in any manner established by the registrar.






Duty of general partnership to file registration statement




81

(1)


All persons associated in partnership for trading, manufacturing or
mining purposes must, unless the firm has been registered under Part 3
as a limited partnership or under Part 6 as a limited liability
partnership, cause to be filed with the registrar a registration
statement.




(2)

Any person who has received the approval of all of the partners of a
firm to do so may, on behalf of the partners, submit a registration
statement to the registrar for filing in relation to the firm.




(2.1)

A registration statement submitted to the registrar under subsection
(2) must state the following:




(a)

the name that is reserved under section 89, by way of a reservation
that is in effect when the registration statement is filed, to be the
firm name of the firm;




(b)

the general nature of the business carried on or intended to be
carried on;




(c)

the full name and residential address of each partner who is an
individual and the name and address of each partner that is not an
individual.




(3)

If a registration statement submitted to the registrar for filing
under subsection (2) is satisfactory to the registrar, the registrar
must




(a)

maintain the information contained in the registration statement,




(b)

send, by mail, fax or electronic means, to each of the persons
identified in the registration statement as partners of the firm, a
notice setting out the information contained in the registration
statement, and




(c)

acknowledge receipt and filing of the registration statement, and the
date it was filed, by sending an acknowledgement by mail, fax or
electronic means to the person who submitted the registration
statement for filing.






Time for filing registration statement




82


The registration statement must be filed within 3 months after the
formation of the firm.






Amendment of registration statement




83

(1)


If, at any time, information included in a registration statement
under section 81 or this section changes, the firm must promptly file
an amendment to the registration statement, in the form established by
the registrar, indicating the change.




(2)

If an amendment to a registration statement is required under
subsection (1) of this section as a result of the change of a firm
name, the new firm name must be reserved under section 89 by way of a
reservation that is in effect when the amendment is filed.




(3)

If an amendment is filed under subsection (1) of this section, section
81 (3) applies to the amendment and, for that purpose, a
reference in section 81 to a registration statement is deemed to be a
reference to that amendment.






Allegations in registration statement as evidence




84


The allegations contained in a registration statement filed under
section 81 or 83 are evidence




(a)

of the existence of the firm referred to in the registration
statement,




(b)

that the persons identified as partners in the registration statement
are partners of the firm, and




(c)

of any other information contained in those allegations.






Rights and liabilities of partners




85

(1)


[Repealed 2002-17-9.]




(2)

Nothing in this section exempts from liability any person who,
although a partner, has not been identified as a partner of that firm
in a registration statement.




(3)

A person referred to in subsection (2), despite not having been
identified as a partner of the firm in a registration statement, may
be sued jointly with the partners mentioned in the registration
statement, or they may be sued alone, and if judgment is recovered
against them, any other partner or partners may be sued jointly or
severally in an action on the original cause of action on which the
judgment is rendered.




(4)

Nothing in this Part is to be construed to affect the rights of any
partners with regard to each other.






Notice of dissolution




86

(1)


On the dissolution of a firm, any or all of the persons who composed
the firm may, in the manner established by the registrar, submit to
the registrar for filing a notice advising the registrar of the
dissolution of the firm.




(2)

A notice under subsection (1) must be in the form established by the
registrar.




(3)

[Repealed 2002-17-10.]






Actions




87

(1)


If any persons are associated as partners for trading, manufacturing
or mining purposes, and no registration statement is filed under this
Part with regard to that partnership, any action that might be brought
against all the members of the firm may also be brought against any
one or more of them, as carrying on or having carried on business
jointly with others, without naming those others in the writ or other
process, under the firm name of their firm.




(2)

If judgment is recovered against a person referred to in subsection
(1), any other partner or partners may be sued jointly or severally on
the original cause of action on which the judgment is rendered.




(3)

If the action is founded on any obligation or instrument in writing in
which all or any of the partners bound by it are named, all the
partners named in it must be made parties to the action and a judgment
rendered against any member of such existing firm for a firm debt or
liability may be executed by process of execution against all and
every firm stock, property and effects in the same manner and to the
same extent as if the judgment had been rendered against the firm.






Duty of sole proprietorship to file registration statement




88

(1)


A person who




(a)

is engaged in business for trading, manufacturing or mining purposes,




(b)

is not associated in partnership with any other person or persons, and




(c)

uses as the person's business name




(i)

a name or designation other than the person's own name, or




(ii)

the person's own name with the addition of




(A)

"and Company", or




(B)

another word or phrase indicating a plurality of members in the
business,


must file a registration statement with the registrar within 3 months
after the day on which the business name is first used.




(2)

A registration statement filed with the registrar under subsection (1)
must state the following:




(a)

the name that is reserved under section 89, by way of a reservation
that is in effect when the registration statement is filed, to be the
business name of the sole proprietorship;




(b)

the general nature of the business carried on or intended to be
carried on;




(c)

the person's full name and residential address or, if the person is
not an individual, the person's name and address.






Reserving names




89

(1)


A person wishing to reserve a business name for the purposes of this
Act must apply to the registrar.




(2)

After receiving an application to reserve a business name under
subsection (1), the registrar may reserve the business name for a
period of 56 days from the date of reservation or any longer period
that the registrar considers appropriate.




(3)

After receiving a request for the extension of a reservation of a
business name, the registrar may, if that request is received before
the expiry of that reservation, extend that reservation for the period
that the registrar considers appropriate.




(4)

The registrar must not reserve a business name under this section
unless that business name complies with the prescribed requirements
and with the other requirements set out in this Act or the registrar
is otherwise authorized by the regulations to reserve the business
name.




(5)

A business name of which the registrar for good and valid reasons
disapproves contravenes the requirements set out in this Act.






Indices




90

(1)


Subject to subsection (6), the registrar must keep 2 indices of the
registration statements, certificates and declarations filed under the
Act, one to be named the "firm index" and the other the "individual
index".




(2)

In the firm index, the registrar must cause to be entered in
alphabetical order the firm names of the respective firms in respect
of which registration statements, certificates or declarations have
been filed with the registrar.




(3)

The registrar must cause to be placed opposite to each entry in the
firm index the names of the persons composing the firm and the date of
receipt by the registrar of the applicable registration statement,
certificate or declaration.




(4)

In the individual index the registrar must cause to be entered in
alphabetical order the names of each of the members of each firm in
respect of which a registration statement, certificate or declaration
has been filed with the registrar.




(5)

The registrar must cause to be placed opposite to each entry in the
individual index the firm name of the firm of which the persons are
members and the date of receipt by the registrar of the applicable
registration statement, certificate or declaration.




(6)

The registrar need not comply with this section in relation to any
record or information that is retained by the registrar in a form
contemplated by section 90.2 (2) (b) (i), whether that
record or information was submitted to the registrar for filing in
paper form or in any other manner established by the registrar.






Repealed




90.1


[Repealed 2002-17-15.]






Reproduction of records filed with the registrar




90.2

(1)


If a record is filed with the registrar under this Act, the registrar
may have the information contained in that record




(a)

photographed,




(b)

stored electronically or digitally in any form the registrar considers
appropriate, or




(c)

reproduced in any other prescribed manner.




(2)

If a record filed with the registrar under this Act, or information
contained in such a record, is maintained by the registrar in paper
form, the registrar must




(a)

maintain the record, or the information contained in the record, in
paper form, or




(b)

convert the record, or the information contained in the record, into
another form under subsection (1), in which event




(i)

the registrar must retain the photograph, stored information or
reproduction,




(ii)

the registrar may destroy the paper form of the record, and




(iii)

the photograph, stored information or reproduction is, for all
purposes, deemed to be the record or information, as the case may be,
photographed, stored or reproduced.




(3)

If a record filed with the registrar under this Act, or information
contained in such a record, is maintained by the registrar other than
in paper form,




(a)

any copies of that information or that record that the registrar is
required to provide must be provided in paper form or in any other
prescribed form, and




(b)

any report prepared by the registrar that consists of information
contained in that record, if that report is certified by the registrar
or by a person designated by the registrar as a signing officer, is
admissible in evidence in place of and to the same extent as the
portion of the record that contained that information.






Search of the register




90.3


Any person may, in the manner and to the extent permitted by the
regulations,




(a)

conduct a search of the information maintained by the registrar under
this Act according to




(i)

the firm name of a firm,




(ii)

the name of a partner,




(iii)

the business name of a sole proprietorship, or




(iv)

the name of a sole proprietor,




(b)

inspect the records and information maintained by the registrar under
this Act,




(c)

obtain a copy of all or any part of a record maintained by the
registrar under this Act, and




(d)

require that a copy of all or part of a record maintained by, or
provided or issued by, the registrar under this Act be certified by
the registrar or by a person designated by the registrar as a signing
officer.






Misleading statements an offence




90.4

(1)


Subject to subsection (3), a person who makes or assists in making a
statement in a registration statement, a notice of dissolution or any
other record filed with the registrar under this Act commits an
offence if the statement




(a)

is, at the time and in light of the circumstances under which it is
made, false or misleading in respect of any material fact, or




(b)

omits any material fact, the omission of which makes the statement
false or misleading.




(2)

If a corporation commits an offence under subsection (1), any director
or officer of the corporation who authorizes, permits or acquiesces in
the commission of the offence also commits an offence, whether or not
the corporation is prosecuted or convicted.




(3)

A person is not guilty of an offence under this section if that person




(a)

did not know that the statement was false or misleading, and




(b)

with the exercise of reasonable diligence, could not have known that
the statement was false or misleading.






Penalty




90.5


A person who commits an offence under section 90.4 is liable,




(a)

in the case of a person other than an individual, to a fine of not
more than $5 000, or




(b)

in the case of an individual, to a fine of not more than $2 000.




Part 5 — Miscellaneous





Rules of equity and common law




91


The rules of equity and of common law applicable to partnership
continue in force, except so far as they are inconsistent with the
express provisions of this Act.






Power to make regulations




92

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
section 41 of the

Interpretation Act

.




(2)

[Repealed 1999-32-59.]




(2.1)

Without limiting subsection (1) of this section, the Lieutenant
Governor in Council may make regulations as follows:




(a)

respecting the manner and form in which, and the method by which,
records and information may be provided or submitted to, or provided
or certified by, the registrar;




(b)

prescribing records and information that must be provided or submitted
to the registrar in, or in conjunction with, any record provided to
the registrar or submitted to the registrar for filing, with power to
prescribe different records and information for different situations;




(c)

respecting the manner in which, and the method by which, records and
information may be mailed, sent or otherwise provided, and the
requirements that a person must meet to mail, send or otherwise
provide or receive records or information in an electronic or other
format for the purposes of this Act, with power to prescribe different
manners, methods and requirements for different records, information
and situations.




(3)

Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations as follows:




(a)

respecting annual reports;




(b)

respecting prescribed addresses;




(c)

[Repealed 2012-12-99.]




(d)

respecting maximum fee amounts for the purposes of sections 109 (3),
121 (3) and 123 (2);




(e)

respecting the manner in which the registrar is to publish notices
that the registrar is required or permitted to publish under this Act,
including prescribing different manners of publication for different
notices;




(f)

respecting business names, including, without limitation, prescribing
the requirements names must meet before being available for
reservation or use under this Act;




(g)

respecting the reservation of business names.






Fees




93


There must be paid to the registrar the following fees:




(a)

for filing a registration statement in relation to a sole
proprietorship or a general partnership and certification of a
true copy of the registration
statement..................................................................................

$40


(b)

for filing a certificate or declaration of limited partnership
and certification of a true copy of the certificate or
declaration...................................................................................


$165



(c)

for each search conducted through the B.C. OnLine information
service using a person's own computer
terminal..........................................

$7*


(d)
[Repealed 2012-12-101.]



(e)

for each search conducted by government
personnel........................

$10


(f)

for a copy of or extract from a document, for every page or part
of a
page......................................................................................

50¢


(g)

for a certificate of true copy or
extract.........................................

$25


(h)

for pre-vetting of documents to be filed with the
registrar................


$100



(i)

for a priority service when
offered...............................................


$100



(j)

for the search of a maximum of 3 names on application for

approval or reservation of a business name. The fee will not be

refunded if a name is not
approved.............................................


$30*



(k)

for filing a registration statement under Part
6..............................


$275



(l)

for filing an amendment to a registration statement under Part
6......

$30


(m)

for filing an annual
report..........................................................

$35




*In addition to a fee marked by an asterisk, a further operator fee of
$1.50, plus any tax imposed under Part IX
[Goods and Services Tax]
of the

Excise Tax Act

(Canada) applicable to the operator fee, may be charged for any
transaction done by electronic means from a location outside a
government office or at a government office by a person who is not a
government employee.




Part 6 — Limited Liability Partnerships



Division 1 — Interpretation and Application





Definitions




94


In this Part:



"delivery address"

means a unique and identifiable location in British Columbia that is
accessible to the public during normal business hours for the delivery
of records, but does not include a post office box;



"distribution"

means a transfer by a partnership of some or all of the partnership
property to a partner or to an assignee of a partner's share in the
partnership;



"extraprovincial limited liability partnership"

means a foreign partnership that is registered as an extraprovincial
limited liability partnership under this Part or under regulations
made in accordance with Part 7;


"filed"
has the same meaning as in the

Business Corporations Act

, and, for that purpose, section 408 of that Act applies;



"foreign partnership"

means a partnership that has a governing jurisdiction other than
British Columbia;



"limited liability partnership"

means a partnership registered as a limited liability partnership
under this Part;



"mailing address"

includes the correct postal code or equivalent, if any;



"partnership"

includes "firm" unless the context otherwise requires;



"partnership obligation"

means any debt, obligation or liability of a partnership, other than
debts, obligations or liabilities of partners as among themselves or
as among themselves and the partnership;


"profession"
means a profession or occupation that is governed or regulated by




(a)

an Act, and




(b)

a body created by or under an Act;



"professional partnership"

means a partnership through which one or more persons carry on the
practice of a profession;


"register"
means the information that is maintained by the registrar from records
filed or registered with the registrar;



"registered general partnership"

means a general partnership in relation to which a registration
statement is filed under Part 4.






Application of Part




95

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), Parts 1, 2, 4 and 5 apply to limited
liability partnerships.




(2)

Subject to section 129 (5), sections 11, 14, 80.1 to 88, 90 and 90.3
(a) (ii) do not apply to limited liability partnerships.




Division 2 — Formation of Limited Liability Partnerships





Application for registration




96

(1)


Subject to this Part, the partners of a partnership, including,
without limitation, the partners of a limited partnership, may apply
to register the partnership as a limited liability partnership.




(2)

In order for a partnership to be registered as a limited liability
partnership, there must be filed with the registrar, on behalf of the
partnership, a registration statement in the form established by the
registrar.




(3)

A registration statement may be filed on behalf of the partnership
under subsection (2) by




(a)

a person who has received the approval of all of the partners to do
so, or




(b)

if the partnership agreement authorizes the filing of a registration
statement for the partnership under subsection (2), any person.




(4)

A registration statement referred to in subsection (2) must




(a)

set out




(i)

the firm name of the partnership that is applying to be registered as
a limited liability partnership, and




(ii)

the name that is reserved under section 89, by way of a reservation
that is in effect when the registration statement is filed, to be the
firm name of the partnership after it is registered as a limited
liability partnership,




(b)

set out the mailing address and delivery address of the office that is
to be the registered office of the partnership after it is registered
as a limited liability partnership,




(c)

if the partnership is a professional partnership,




(i)

indicate that fact, and




(ii)

confirm that the partnership is authorized, within the meaning of
section 97, to register as a limited liability partnership,




(d)

if the partnership is a limited partnership or a registered general
partnership, indicate that fact,




(e)

contain a statement that




(i)

the person submitting the registration statement for filing has
received the approval of all of the partners to file that registration
statement, or




(ii)

the partnership agreement authorizes the filing of a registration
statement for the partnership under subsection (2), and




(f)

set out any other information required by the regulations.




(5)

The allegations contained in a registration statement filed under this
section are evidence of the information contained in those
allegations.






Professional partnerships




97


If a partnership that wishes to register as a limited liability
partnership is a professional partnership, that partnership must not
register as a limited liability partnership unless




(a)

members of that profession are expressly authorized under the Act by
which that profession is governed to carry on the practice of the
profession through a limited liability partnership, and




(b)

any prerequisites to that authorization that have been established
under that Act have been met by the partnership.






Registration of limited liability partnership




98

(1)


If a registration statement submitted to the registrar under section
96 is satisfactory to the registrar, the registrar must




(a)

file the registration statement,




(b)

publish in the prescribed manner a notice of the registration of the
partnership as a limited liability partnership, and




(c)

acknowledge receipt and filing of the registration statement, and the
date it was filed, by




(i)

sending an acknowledgement by mail, fax or electronic means to the
person who submitted the registration statement for filing, and




(ii)

sending an acknowledgement and a copy of the registration statement to
the registered office of the partnership.




(2)

On the filing of a registration statement under this Part, the
partnership in relation to which the statement was filed is registered
as a limited liability partnership.






Registration does not dissolve partnership




99


Subject to any agreement among the partners, the registration of a
partnership as a limited liability partnership does not cause the
dissolution of the partnership, and the limited liability partnership
continues as the same partnership that existed before the conversion.






Name of partnership




100


A limited liability partnership must have the words "Limited Liability
Partnership", "Société à Responsabilité Limitée" or "Société en
nom collectif à responsabilité limitée" or the abbreviation "LLP",
"SRL" or "SENCRL" as part of and at the end of its firm name.






Evidence of registration




101


Whether or not the requirements precedent and incidental to
registration have been complied with, a notation in the register that
a partnership has been registered as a limited liability partnership
is conclusive evidence for the purposes of this Act and for all other
purposes that the partnership has been duly registered as a limited
liability partnership on the date and time shown in the register.






Change in partnership does not affect status




102


A change in the partnership does not affect the partnership's status
as a limited liability partnership.




Division 3 — Effect of Registration





Effect on other registrations




103

(1)


In this section:



"limited partnership"

means a partnership for which a limited partnership certificate is
filed under Part 3;



"limited partnership certificate"

has the same meaning as "certificate" in section 48.




(2)

If a limited partnership is registered as a limited liability
partnership,




(a)

the limited partnership certificate for the partnership is cancelled,




(b)

the partnership ceases to be a limited partnership, and




(c)

Part 3 ceases to apply to the partnership.




(3)

If a registered general partnership is registered as a limited
liability partnership,




(a)

the partnership's registration under Part 4 is cancelled,




(b)

the partnership ceases to be a registered general partnership, and




(c)

sections 80.1 to 88, 90 and 90.3 (a) (ii) cease to apply to the
partnership.






Limited liability for partners




104

(1)


Except as provided in this Part, in another Act or in a partnership
agreement, a partner in a limited liability partnership




(a)

is not personally liable for a partnership obligation merely because
that person is a partner,




(b)

is not personally liable for an obligation under an agreement between
the partnership and another person, and




(c)

is not personally liable to the partnership or another partner for an
obligation to which paragraph (a) or (b) applies.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not relieve a partner in a limited liability
partnership from personal liability




(a)

for the partner's own negligent or wrongful act or omission, or




(b)

for the negligent or wrongful act or omission of another partner or an
employee of the partnership if the partner seeking relief




(i)

knew of the act or omission, and




(ii)

did not take the actions that a reasonable person would take to
prevent it.




(3)

Subsection (1) does not protect a partner's interest in the
partnership property from claims against the partnership respecting a
partnership obligation.






Partners subject to same obligations as corporate directors




105

(1)


Partners in a limited liability partnership are personally liable for
a partnership obligation if and to the same extent that they would be
liable for the obligation if




(a)

the obligation was an obligation of a corporation, and




(b)

they were directors of that corporation.




(2)

Nothing in subsection (1) imposes on partners the duties imposed on
directors of corporations at common law or under section 142 of the

Business Corporations Act

.




(3)

If a corporation is a partner in a limited liability partnership, the
directors of the corporation are jointly and severally liable for any
liability imposed on the corporation under subsection (1) of this
section or section 104 (2).




(4)

Subsection (3) does not apply to a director who dissented to, or took
the actions a reasonable person would take to prevent, the act or
omission that resulted in the liability.






Previous obligations




106


Nothing in this Part limits the liability of partners in a limited
liability partnership in respect of any partnership obligation that




(a)

arose before the partnership became a limited liability partnership,
or




(b)

arose out of a contract entered into before the partnership became a
limited liability partnership.




Division 4 — Obligations of Limited Liability Partnerships





Notice to clients




107


Promptly after a partnership is registered as a limited liability
partnership, the partnership must take reasonable steps to notify all
of its existing clients in writing of the registration and the
changes, resulting from that registration, in the liability of the
partners.






Registered office




108

(1)


A limited liability partnership must have a registered office in
British Columbia.




(2)

Without limiting any other enactment, a record may be served on a
limited liability partnership by delivering the record to the delivery
address, or by mailing it by registered mail to the mailing address,
for the registered office of the limited liability partnership.






Records




109

(1)


A limited liability partnership must keep at its registered office a
current and alphabetical list of its partners, including the full name
and prescribed address of each partner.




(2)

A limited liability partnership must make available for inspection and
copying during normal business hours, at the request of any person and
on payment by that person of any fee charged under subsection (3),




(a)

the list kept under subsection (1), and




(b)

a list of the persons, with their prescribed addresses, who were
partners in the limited liability partnership on a particular date,
specified in the request, that is after the date on which the
partnership was registered as a limited liability partnership.




(3)

A limited liability partnership may, for any list made available under
subsection (2), charge a fee that is not greater than the amount
prescribed.






Annual reports




110

(1)


A limited liability partnership must annually, within 2 months after
each anniversary of the date on which the partnership was registered
as a limited liability partnership, file with the registrar an annual
report in the form established by the registrar at the time and
containing information that is current to the most recent anniversary.




(2)

A limited liability partnership that has not filed with the registrar
one or more annual reports under this Act must remedy that default
before filing with the registrar any other annual report under this
Act.






Changes to registration statement




111

(1)


If, at any time, information included in a registration statement
under section 96 (4) or this section changes, the limited liability
partnership must promptly file an amendment to the registration
statement, in the form established by the registrar, indicating the
change.




(1.1)

If an amendment to a registration statement is required under
subsection (1) as a result of the change of a firm name, the new firm
name must be reserved under section 89 by way of a reservation that is
in effect when the amendment is filed.




(2)

If an amendment is filed under subsection (1) of this section, section
98 (1) applies to the amendment and, for that purpose, a reference in
section 98 to a registration statement is deemed to be a reference to
that amendment.






Restrictions on distribution of partnership property




112

(1)


A limited liability partnership




(a)

must not make a distribution in connection with winding up its affairs
or after it has ceased to carry on business unless all partnership
obligations have been paid or satisfactory provision for their payment
has been made, and




(b)

in circumstances other than in connection with winding up its affairs,
must not make a distribution if the limited liability partnership
would, after the distribution, be unable to pay its partnership
obligations as they come due in the ordinary course of business.




(2)

Despite subsection (1) (a), if a partner has expended money for the
benefit of a limited liability partnership or has made a loan to the
partnership, other than for or in relation to an acquisition by the
partner of an interest in the partnership, the partner is entitled to
receive a prorated payment with all other creditors of the same class
of the limited liability partnership.




(3)

Subsection (1) does not prohibit a payment made as reasonable
compensation for current services provided by a partner to the limited
liability partnership.






Recovery of prohibited distributions




113

(1)


A partner in a limited liability partnership who receives a
distribution contrary to section 112 (1) is liable to the limited
liability partnership for the positive difference between




(a)

the lesser of




(i)

the value of the partnership property received by the partner, and




(ii)

the amount necessary to discharge partnership obligations that existed
at the time of the distribution, and




(b)

the amount the partner is entitled to receive under section 112 (2) or
(3), as the case may be.




(2)

Partners in a limited liability partnership who authorize a
distribution contrary to section 112 (1) are jointly and severally
liable to the limited liability partnership for any amount for which
the partner who received the distribution is liable under subsection
(1) of this section, to the extent that the amount is not recovered
from that partner.




(3)

Proceedings to enforce a liability under this section may be brought
by the limited liability partnership, any partner in the limited
liability partnership or any person to whom the limited liability
partnership was obligated at the time of the distribution to which the
liability relates.




(4)

Proceedings to enforce a liability under this section must be
commenced no later than 2 years after the date of the distribution to
which the liability relates.




Division 5 — Extraprovincial Limited Liability Partnerships





Non-registered status




114


Whether or not a foreign partnership has, in a jurisdiction other than
British Columbia, the status of, or a status equivalent to that of, a
limited liability partnership, the liability attributable to the
foreign partnership and its partners while the foreign partnership is
carrying on business in British Columbia is the same as the liability
that is attributable to a general partnership and its partners unless
that foreign partnership is registered as an extraprovincial limited
liability partnership.






Registration of extraprovincial limited liability partnership




115

(1)


Subject to section 116, a foreign partnership that wishes to register
as an extraprovincial limited liability partnership may apply to
register the foreign partnership as an extraprovincial limited
liability partnership if the foreign partnership has the status of, or
a status equivalent to that of, a limited liability partnership under
the laws of its governing jurisdiction.




(2)

In order for a foreign partnership to be registered as an
extraprovincial limited liability partnership, there must be filed
with the registrar, on behalf of the foreign partnership, a
registration statement in the form established by the registrar.




(3)

A registration statement may be filed on behalf of a foreign
partnership under subsection (2) by




(a)

a person who has received the approval of all of the partners to do
so, or




(b)

if the foreign partnership agreement authorizes the filing of a
registration statement for the foreign partnership under subsection
(2), any person.




(4)

A registration statement referred to in subsection (2) must




(a)

set out




(i)

the firm name of the foreign partnership that is applying to be
registered as an extraprovincial limited liability partnership, and




(ii)

the name that is reserved under section 89, by way of a reservation
that is in effect when the registration statement is filed, to be the
firm name of the foreign partnership after it is registered as an
extraprovincial limited liability partnership,




(b)

set out the mailing address and delivery address of the office that is
to be the registered office, if any, of the foreign partnership after
it is registered as an extraprovincial limited liability partnership,




(c)

identify the governing jurisdiction of the foreign partnership,




(d)

set out the full name, mailing address and delivery address of each
person, if any, who is to be an attorney for the foreign partnership
after it is registered as an extraprovincial limited liability
partnership,




(e)

confirm that the foreign partnership has the status of, or a status
equivalent to that of, a limited liability partnership under the laws
of its governing jurisdiction,




(f)

if the foreign partnership is a professional partnership,




(i)

indicate that fact, and




(ii)

confirm that the foreign partnership is authorized, within the meaning
of section 116, to register as an extraprovincial limited liability
partnership,




(g)

if the foreign partnership is a limited partnership, indicate that
fact,




(h)

contain a statement that




(i)

the person submitting the registration statement for filing has
received the approval of all of the partners to file that registration
statement, or




(ii)

the foreign partnership agreement authorizes the filing of a
registration statement for the foreign partnership under subsection
(2), and




(i)

set out any other information required by the regulations.




(5)

The allegations contained in a registration statement filed under this
section are evidence of the information contained in those
allegations.






Professional partnerships




116


If a foreign partnership that wishes to register as an extraprovincial
limited liability partnership is a professional partnership, that
foreign partnership must not register as an extraprovincial limited
liability partnership unless




(a)

members of that profession are expressly authorized under the Act by
which that profession is governed in British Columbia to carry on the
practice of the profession through a limited liability partnership,
and




(b)

any prerequisites to that authorization that have been established
under that Act have been met by the foreign partnership.






Application of this Part to extraprovincial limited liability
partnerships




117


Sections 98, 99, 101, 102 and 111 apply to the registration of an
extraprovincial limited liability partnership.






Name of partnership




118

(1)


The firm name of an extraprovincial limited liability partnership must




(a)

contain the words and abbreviations required under the law of its
governing jurisdiction, and




(b)

comply with section 100.




(2)

In the event of a conflict between the requirements under subsection
(1) (a) of this section and the requirements under subsection (1) (b),
the requirements under subsection (1) (b) prevail.






Effect on other registration




119

(1)


In this section,
"limited partnership"
means a limited partnership, formed outside British Columbia, that has
been registered under section 80 or under regulations made in
accordance with Part 7.




(2)

If a limited partnership is registered as an extraprovincial limited
liability partnership,




(a)

the partnership's registration under section 80 or under regulations
made in accordance with Part 7 is cancelled, and




(b)

section 80 or the regulations made in accordance with Part 7, as the
case may be, cease to apply to the partnership.






Notice to clients




120


Promptly after a foreign partnership is registered as an
extraprovincial limited liability partnership, the foreign partnership
must take reasonable steps to notify all of its clients in British
Columbia in writing of the registration and the changes, resulting
from that registration, in the liability of the partners.






Registered office




121

(1)


An extraprovincial limited liability partnership may have a registered
office in British Columbia.




(2)

An extraprovincial limited liability partnership that has a registered
office in British Columbia must




(a)

keep at that registered office a current and alphabetical list of its
British Columbia partners, including the full name and prescribed
address of each British Columbia partner, and




(b)

make available for inspection and copying during normal business
hours, at the request of a person and on payment by that person of any
fee charged under subsection (3),




(i)

the list kept under paragraph (a), and




(ii)

a list of the persons, with their prescribed addresses, who were
British Columbia partners in the extraprovincial limited liability
partnership on a particular date, specified in the request, that is
after the date on which the partnership was registered as an
extraprovincial limited liability partnership.




(3)

An extraprovincial limited liability partnership may, for any list
made available under subsection (2) (b), charge a fee that is not
greater than the amount prescribed.




(4)

Without limiting any other enactment, a record may be served on an
extraprovincial limited liability partnership by delivering the record
to the delivery address, or by mailing it by registered mail to the
mailing address, for the registered office, if any, of the
extraprovincial limited liability partnership.






Attorney to be appointed




122

(1)


An extraprovincial limited liability partnership that does not have a
registered office in British Columbia must have an attorney.




(2)

For the purposes of this Division, the attorney for an extraprovincial
limited liability partnership must be




(a)

an individual who is resident in British Columbia, or




(b)

a company within the meaning of the

Business Corporations Act

.




(3)

The mailing address and delivery address of an attorney must be,




(a)

if the attorney is an individual, the mailing address and delivery
address of the office in British Columbia at which the individual can
usually be reached during normal business hours, or




(b)

if the attorney is a company, the mailing address and delivery address
of that company's registered office.






Authorization and obligations of attorneys




123

(1)


An attorney for an extraprovincial limited liability partnership




(a)

is deemed to be authorized by the extraprovincial limited liability
partnership




(i)

to accept service of process on its behalf in each legal proceeding by
or against it in British Columbia, and




(ii)

to receive each notice to it,




(b)

must keep at the attorney's delivery address a current and
alphabetical list of the extraprovincial limited liability
partnership's British Columbia partners, including the full name and
prescribed address of each British Columbia partner, and




(c)

must make available for inspection and copying during normal business
hours, at the request of a person and on payment by that person of any
fee charged under subsection (2),




(i)

the list kept under paragraph (b) of this subsection, and




(ii)

a list of the persons, with their prescribed addresses, who were
British Columbia partners in the extraprovincial limited liability
partnership on a particular date, specified in the request, that is
after the date on which the partnership was registered as an
extraprovincial limited liability partnership.




(2)

An attorney may, for any list made available under subsection (1) (c),
charge a fee that is not greater than the amount prescribed.






Annual reports




124

(1)


An extraprovincial limited liability partnership must annually, within
2 months after each anniversary of the date on which the partnership
was registered as an extraprovincial limited liability partnership,
file with the registrar an annual report in the form established by
the registrar at the time and containing information that is current
to the most recent anniversary.




(2)

An extraprovincial limited liability partnership that has not filed
with the registrar one or more annual reports under this Act must
remedy that default before filing with the registrar any other annual
report under this Act.






Law of governing jurisdiction applies




125

(1)


Except as provided in another Act, the law of the governing
jurisdiction of an extraprovincial limited liability partnership
applies




(a)

to the organization and internal affairs of the extraprovincial
limited liability partnership, and




(b)

to the liability of the extraprovincial limited liability partnership
and its partners for debts, obligations and liabilities of or
chargeable to the extraprovincial limited liability partnership or its
partners.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), a British Columbia partner of an
extraprovincial limited liability partnership does not have any
greater protection against individual liability with respect to the
partner's activities in British Columbia than a partner in a limited
liability partnership has under Division 3 with respect to the
partner's activities in British Columbia.




Division 6 — Winding Up and Cancellation of Registration





Notice of dissolution




126

(1)


On the dissolution of a limited liability partnership or an
extraprovincial limited liability partnership, the limited liability
partnership or extraprovincial limited liability partnership must
submit to the registrar for filing a notice, in the form established
by the registrar, advising the registrar of the dissolution of the
limited liability partnership or extraprovincial limited liability
partnership.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1), any person who was a partner of
the limited liability partnership or extraprovincial limited liability
partnership at the time of its dissolution may file the required
notice.






Winding up of limited liability partnership business and affairs




127

(1)


Despite the dissolution of a limited liability partnership, Division 3
continues to apply to the partnership and its partners until the
business and affairs of the limited liability partnership are wound
up.




(2)

If the affairs of a limited liability partnership are being wound up,
the court may, on the application of any interested person, make any
order respecting the limited liability partnership that could be made
under section 325 of the

Business Corporations Act

respecting a corporation.






Winding up of extraprovincial limited liability partnership business
and affairs




128


Despite the dissolution of an extraprovincial limited liability
partnership, section 125 (1) (b) continues to apply to the partnership
and its partners until the business and affairs of the extraprovincial
limited liability partnership are wound up.






Cancellation of registration




129

(1)


Subject to subsections (2) and (3), the registrar may cancel the
registration of




(a)

a limited liability partnership if




(i)

the limited liability partnership fails, in each of 2 consecutive
years, to file an annual report required under section 110,




(ii)

there is filed with the registrar a request, in the form established
by the registrar, that the registration be cancelled and the request
includes a statement that




(A)

the person submitting the request for filing has received the approval
of all of the partners to file the request, or




(B)

the partnership agreement authorizes the filing of a request to cancel
the registration of the partnership as a limited liability
partnership,




(iii)

the partnership is a professional partnership and the registrar is
satisfied that the partnership is not, or is no longer, authorized,
under section 97, to register as a limited liability partnership, or




(iv)

the partnership requires the authorization of a person or other entity
in order to be registered as a limited liability partnership and that
person or other entity provides a notice to the registrar stating that
that authorization has not been provided or has been revoked, or




(b)

an extraprovincial limited liability partnership if




(i)

the extraprovincial limited liability partnership fails, in each of 2
consecutive years, to file an annual report required under section
124,




(ii)

there is filed with the registrar a request, in the form established
by the registrar, that the registration be cancelled and the request
includes a statement that




(A)

the person submitting the request for filing has received the approval
of all of the partners to file the request, or




(B)

the foreign partnership agreement authorizes the filing of a request
to cancel the registration of the foreign partnership as an
extraprovincial limited liability partnership,




(iii)

the partnership is a professional partnership and the registrar is
satisfied that the partnership is not, or is no longer, authorized,
under section 116, to register as an extraprovincial limited liability
partnership, or




(iv)

the registrar receives a notice from the person who, in the
extraprovincial limited liability partnership's governing
jurisdiction, holds a position equivalent to the registrar, stating
that the extraprovincial limited liability partnership no longer has
the status of a limited liability partnership in that jurisdiction.




(2)

Before the registrar cancels a registration under subsection (1), the
registrar must provide to the limited liability partnership or the
extraprovincial limited liability partnership, as the case may be, a
letter informing it of the intended cancellation.




(3)

At any time later than one month after the date of the letter, the
registrar may cancel the registration of the limited liability
partnership or the extraprovincial limited liability partnership, as
the case may be, unless the default is remedied or the registrar is
satisfied that reasonable steps are being taken to remedy the default.




(4)

Cancellation of the registration of a limited liability partnership or
an extraprovincial limited liability partnership does not dissolve the
limited liability partnership or the extraprovincial limited liability
partnership, but instead only removes its status as a limited
liability partnership or an extraprovincial limited liability
partnership, as the case may be.




(5)

On the cancellation of the registration of a partnership as a limited
liability partnership or an extraprovincial limited liability
partnership,




(a)

if the partnership has British Columbia as its governing jurisdiction,
this Act applies to that partnership as if it were a general
partnership and section 104 ceases to apply to the partnership and its
partners, and




(b)

if the partnership is a foreign partnership, this Act applies to that
partnership as if it were a foreign partnership that is not an
extraprovincial limited liability partnership and section 125 (1) (b)
ceases to apply to the partnership and its partners.




(6)

A reference in section 82, as it applies to a partnership under
subsection (5) (a) of this section, to "the formation of the firm" is
deemed, for the purposes of subsection (5) (a), to be a reference to
the cancellation of the partnership's registration as a limited
liability partnership.




(7)

Cancellation of the registration of a partnership as a limited
liability partnership or an extraprovincial limited liability
partnership does not affect the liability of a partner in the
partnership in respect of any partnership obligation that




(a)

arose before the cancellation of the registration of the partnership
as a limited liability partnership or an extraprovincial limited
liability partnership, or




(b)

arose out of a contract entered into before the cancellation of the
registration of a partnership as the limited liability partnership or
an extraprovincial limited liability partnership.




Part 7 — Designated Provinces and Extraprovincial Limited Partnerships
and Limited Liability Partnerships from Designated Provinces





Definitions




130


In this Part:



"designated province"

means a province designated by the Lieutenant Governor in Council for
the purposes of this Part under section 131 (1);



"extraprovincial limited liability partnership"

means a foreign partnership registered as a limited liability
partnership under this Part;



"extraprovincial registrar"

means a person in a designated province who holds a position that is
equivalent to the registrar;



"foreign partnership"

means a partnership that has a governing province other than British
Columbia that is a designated province;



"limited partnership"

means a foreign partnership registered as a limited partnership under
this Part.






Power to make regulations




131

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may by regulation designate a
province for the purposes of this Part.




(2)

Without limiting any other authority of the Lieutenant Governor in
Council to make regulations under this Act, the Lieutenant Governor in
Council may, in relation to foreign partnerships, limited partnerships
or extraprovincial limited liability partnerships, make regulations as
follows:




(a)

respecting the filings that must be made by foreign partnerships,
limited partnerships or extraprovincial limited liability
partnerships;




(b)

respecting registration and cancellation of registration of foreign
partnerships as limited partnerships or extraprovincial limited
liability partnerships;




(c)

respecting notice of dissolution of foreign partnerships registered as
limited partnerships or extraprovincial limited liability
partnerships;




(d)

setting out procedures that the registrar must follow before
cancelling the registration of foreign partnerships as limited
partnerships or extraprovincial limited liability partnerships;




(e)

respecting changes to filed information that relates to limited
partnerships or extraprovincial limited liability partnerships;




(f)

respecting the approval by the registrar of firm names of foreign
partnerships, limited partnerships and extraprovincial limited
liability partnerships and setting fees for the approval;




(g)

respecting the requirement of limited partnerships and extraprovincial
limited liability partnerships to have an attorney, the functions of
an attorney and the appointment or change of attorney;




(h)

establishing the authority and authorization of an attorney, including
deemed authorization to accept service of process and notices;




(i)

respecting information that must be kept and maintained by an attorney
and to whom and when the information must be made available and fees
that may be charged by an attorney for the provision of the
information;




(j)

respecting the form or manner in which the registrar may accept
records, filings, applications, information, forms, notices and fees




(i)

in matters governed under this section, and




(ii)

in respect of foreign partnerships, limited partnerships and
extraprovincial limited liability partnerships from a designated
province;




(k)

exempting foreign partnerships, limited partnerships or
extraprovincial limited liability partnerships from a provision of
this Act or from a provision of a regulation made under another
section of this Act;




(l)

disapplying a provision of this Act or a provision of a regulation
made under another section of this Act in respect of foreign
partnerships, limited partnerships or extraprovincial limited
liability partnerships.




(3)

Without limiting any other authority of the Lieutenant Governor in
Council to make regulations under this Act, the Lieutenant Governor in
Council may make regulations as follows:




(a)

setting out the powers and duties of the registrar in relation to




(i)

matters governed by regulations made under this section, and




(ii)

foreign partnerships, limited partnerships and extraprovincial limited
liability partnerships;




(b)

in relation to limited partnerships formed under Part 3 of this Act or
limited liability partnerships formed under Part 6 of this Act,
respecting the form or manner in which the registrar may collect and
transmit records, filings, applications, information, forms, notices
and fees to or for an extraprovincial registrar.




(4)

A regulation under subsection (2) or (3) may




(a)

require that a form be one established by the registrar or allow a
form to be one established by the registrar, and




(b)

confer a discretion on, or delegate a matter to, the registrar.




(5)

If there is a conflict or an inconsistency between a regulation made
under this section and a provision of this Act or a provision of a
regulation made under another section of this Act, the regulation made
under this section prevails.






Registrar may enter into agreement




132


The registrar may enter into an agreement with an extraprovincial
registrar in relation to limited partnerships formed under Part 3 of
this Act, limited liability partnerships formed under Part 6 of this
Act, foreign partnerships, limited partnerships and extraprovincial
limited liability partnerships, to address the following matters:




(a)

the collection by the extraprovincial registrar of records, filings,
applications, forms, notices, fees or information required under this
Act;




(b)

the collection by the registrar of records, filings, applications,
forms, notices, fees or information required under an enactment
similar to this Act;




(c)

the transmission of the matters referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b)
from the extraprovincial registrar to the registrar and from the
registrar to the extraprovincial registrar;




(d)

the powers and duties of the registrar and the extraprovincial
registrar in relation to a matter referred to in paragraph (a), (b),
(c) or (e);




(e)

any related matter that the registrar determines is appropriately
included in the agreement.




