





View Complete Statute



Business Corporations Act
[SBC 2002] CHAPTER 57



Part 9 — Company Alterations



Division 1 — Memorandum, Notice of Articles and Articles





Memorandum and articles of pre-existing company not to be altered




256

(1)


A pre-existing company must not alter its memorandum or articles.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), a pre-existing company may




(a)

alter its memorandum or articles,




(i)

under section 364 (2),




(ii)

under section 366,




(iii)

under section 370 or 436, as the case may be, or




(iv)

under section 442 (3),




(b)

alter its articles or notice of articles at any time after it has
complied with section 370 (1) (a) and (b) or 436 (1) (a) and (b), and




(c)

change its articles in accordance with section 12 (5), 372 (4), 434
(1) (a) or 438 (4).






Alteration to notice of articles




257

(1)


This section does not apply to an alteration to a notice of articles
if the alteration is made, is required to be made or otherwise occurs
under Division 4 of Part 2 or under section 127.




(2)

A company must not alter its notice of articles unless




(a)

the company does so in the manner required or permitted by this Act,
and




(b)

subject to subsection (3) of this section, the company has been
authorized to make the alteration by a court order or, if the
alteration is not authorized by a court order,




(i)

by the type of resolution specified by this Act,




(ii)

if this Act does not specify the type of resolution, by the type of
resolution specified by the articles, or




(iii)

if neither this Act nor the articles specify the type of resolution,
by a special resolution.




(3)

If an alteration to a company's articles has been approved, under
section 259 (1), by a resolution marked in accordance with section 259
(4) (a) and deposited in the company's records office in accordance
with section 259 (4) (b), or has been made by a court order, the
company may alter its notice of articles to reflect that alteration to
its articles without obtaining the authorization referred to in
subsection (2) (b) of this section.




(4)

In order to alter its notice of articles under this section, a company
must file with the registrar a notice of alteration in the form
established by the registrar describing the alteration.




(5)

Whether or not an alteration to the notice of articles has been
effected and authorized in accordance with subsection (2),




(a)

the alteration takes effect on the date and time that the notice of
alteration is filed with the registrar, or




(b)

subject to sections 258 and 410, if the notice of alteration specifies
a date, or a date and time, on which the alteration is to take effect
that is later than the date and time on which the notice of alteration
is filed with the registrar, the alteration takes effect




(i)

on the specified date and time, or




(ii)

if no time is specified, at the beginning of the specified date.




(6)

After an alteration to the notice of articles takes effect under
subsection (5) of this section, the registrar must, if requested to do
so, furnish to the company a certified copy of the notice of articles
as altered.






Withdrawal of notice of alteration




258


At any time after a notice of alteration is filed with the registrar
under section 257 (4) and before the alteration to the notice of
articles takes effect, the company in respect of which the filing was
made or any other person who appears to the registrar to be an
appropriate person to do so may withdraw the notice of alteration by
filing with the registrar a notice of withdrawal in the form
established by the registrar identifying the notice of alteration.






Alteration to articles




259

(1)


A company may resolve to alter its articles




(a)

by the type of resolution specified by this Act,




(b)

if this Act does not specify the type of resolution, by the type of
resolution specified by the articles, or




(c)

if neither this Act nor the articles specify the type of resolution,
by a special resolution.




(2)

A company may alter its articles to specify or change the majority of
votes that is required to pass a special resolution, which majority
must be at least 2/3 and not more than 3/4 of the votes cast on the
resolution, if the shareholders resolve, by a special resolution, to
make the alteration.




(3)

A company may alter its articles to specify or change the majority of
votes that is required for shareholders holding shares of a class or
series of shares to pass a special separate resolution, which majority
must be at least 2/3 and not more than 3/4 of the votes cast on the
resolution, if




(a)

the shareholders resolve, by a special resolution, to make the
alteration, and




(b)

shareholders holding shares of that class or series of shares consent
by a special separate resolution of those shareholders.




(4)

If an alteration to the articles would, on becoming effective, render
incorrect or incomplete any information in the notice of articles or
alter special rights or restrictions attached to shares, the company
must




(a)

note on the resolution referred to in subsection (1) that the
alteration to the articles does not take effect until the notice of
articles is altered to reflect that alteration to the articles,




(b)

deposit that resolution at the company's records office, and




(c)

after complying with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this subsection, alter
its notice of articles, in accordance with section 257, to reflect the
alteration to be made to the articles.




(5)

An alteration to the articles referred to in subsection (4) of this
section takes effect when the alteration to the notice of articles
referred to in subsection (4) (c) takes effect.




(6)

An alteration to the articles that is not an alteration referred to in
subsection (4) takes effect




(a)

on the date and time that the resolution referred to in subsection (1)
is received for deposit at the company's records office, or




(b)

if the resolution specifies a date, or a date and time, on which the
alteration is to take effect that is later than the date and time on
which the resolution is received for deposit at the company's records
office,




(i)

on the specified date and time, or




(ii)

if no time is specified, at the beginning of the specified date.




(7)

This section does not apply to a change of name or to an adoption or
change of any translation of name.




(8)

Nothing in subsection (5) or (6) prevents an alteration to the
articles made by a court order from taking effect in accordance with
that order.






Shareholders may dissent




260


Any shareholder of a company may send to the company a notice of
dissent, under Division 2 of Part 8, in respect of any resolution
under section 259 (1)




(a)

to alter restrictions on the powers of the company or on the business
the company is permitted to carry on,




(b)

without limiting paragraph (a), in the case of a community
contribution company, to alter any of the company's community purposes
within the meaning of section 51.91, or




(c)

without limiting paragraph (a), in the case of a benefit company, to
alter the company's benefit provision.






Alteration to Table 1 articles




261

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may, by regulation, prescribe a set
of articles, and designate that set of articles as "Table 1".




(2)

Unless the articles provide otherwise, if a company has Table 1 as its
articles as a result of the operation of this Act or if a provision of
Table 1 is adopted by reference in the articles of a company, any
regulation that amends Table 1 or that provision, as the case may be,
will, at the time that the amendment comes into force, effect a
corresponding alteration to the company's articles, without the
necessity for the company to pass a resolution to make that
alteration.




(3)

Nothing in this section prevents a company from altering a provision
in its articles referred to in subsection (2) in the manner provided
by section 259.




(4)

Subsection (2) of this section does not apply to a provision that has
been altered under subsection (3).






Articles issued by company must reflect alterations




262


After an alteration to the articles of a company takes effect, the
company must not issue a copy of the articles unless




(a)

the copy of the articles reflects the alteration, or




(b)

there is attached, to the copy of the articles, a copy of each
resolution, court order or other record by which the articles being
issued were altered.






Change of company name




263

(1)


In order to change its name or adopt or change any translation of that
name, a company must alter its notice of articles in accordance with
section 257.




(2)

A company may, by a directors' resolution or an ordinary resolution,
authorize an alteration to its notice of articles to adopt or change a
translation of its name.




(3)

A resolution under section 257 (2) (b) may authorize a change of the
company's name to




(a)

a name, referred to in the resolution, that is reserved or is to be
reserved under section 22,




(b)

a name that is to be chosen by the directors and then reserved under
section 22, or




(c)

the name created,




(i)

in the case of a limited company, by adding "B.C. Ltd." or, if the
company is a community contribution company, "B.C. Community
Contribution Company Ltd.", after the incorporation number of the
company, or




(ii)

in the case of an unlimited liability company, by adding "B.C.
Unlimited Liability Company" after the incorporation number of the
company.




(4)

If a notice of alteration filed with the registrar under section 257
(4) reflects a change of name referred to in subsection (3) (a) or (b)
of this section and no reservation of that name is in effect when the
alterations contemplated by the notice of alteration are to take
effect, the notice of alteration is




(a)

deemed to be withdrawn when the alterations contemplated by the notice
of alteration are to take effect, and




(b)

deemed not to have effected any of the alterations to the notice of
articles contemplated by that notice of alteration.




(5)

After an alteration to the notice of articles has taken effect under
section 257 (5) to change the name of a company,




(a)

the registrar must




(i)

issue and furnish to the company a certificate of change of name
showing the change of name and the date and time the change took
effect,




(ii)

furnish to the company, if requested to do so, a certified copy of the
notice of articles as altered, and




(iii)

publish in the prescribed manner a notice of the change of name, and




(b)

the company must promptly alter its articles to reflect that change of
name and any translation of that name.




(6)

After an alteration to the notice of articles has taken effect under
section 257 (5) to adopt a translation of the name of a company, or
change any translation of the name of a company other than to reflect
a change of the name of the company,




(a)

the registrar must, if requested to do so, furnish to the company a
certified copy of the notice of articles as altered, and




(b)

the company must promptly alter its articles to reflect that
translation or the change of the translation of that name.




(7)

A company may alter its articles for the purposes of subsection (5)
(b) or (6) (b) of this section without obtaining any resolution to
direct or authorize that alteration.




(8)

No change of the name or translated name of a company affects any of
its rights or obligations, or renders defective any legal proceedings
by or against it, and any legal proceedings that may have been
continued or commenced by or against it under its former name or
translated name may be continued or commenced by or against it under
its new name or translated name.






Exceptional resolutions and resolutions respecting unalterable
provisions




264

(1)


By a provision in its articles, in this section called an exceptional
resolution provision, a company may specify that




(a)

a provision of its notice of articles may not be altered unless the
resolution to authorize the alteration to the notice of articles is
passed as an exceptional resolution,




(b)

a provision of its articles may not be altered unless the resolution
to alter the company's articles is passed as an exceptional
resolution, or




(c)

an action may not be taken by the company or the directors unless the
resolution to authorize or effect the taking of the action is passed
as an exceptional resolution.




(2)

A company may not vary or delete an exceptional resolution provision
unless the variation or deletion is authorized by an exceptional
resolution.




(3)

Despite any other provision of this Act, if the articles of a
pre-existing company that has complied with section 370 (1) (a) and
(b) or 436 (1) (a) and (b) include a provision that was not capable of
alteration under the

Company Act

, 1996, the company must not alter that provision unless the
alteration is




(a)

ordered by the court, or




(b)

authorized by a unanimous resolution.




(4)

Each share of the company carries the right to vote on a resolution
referred to in subsection (3) (b) of this section, whether or not that
share otherwise carries the right to vote.






Resolution must be passed by greatest majority




265


If a company is required or permitted under its articles or this Act
to pass a resolution and if there is a conflict between the articles
and this Act regarding the majority of votes that is required to pass
the resolution, the company must, in order to pass the resolution,
obtain the greater of




(a)

the majority of votes required by the articles, and




(b)

the majority of votes required by this Act.




Division 2 — Conversion





Conversion of special Act corporations




266

(1)


Unless the Act by which it was incorporated provides otherwise, a
special Act corporation may apply to convert itself into a company
under this Act if it has the consent of the minister to do so, and if
it is authorized to do so by a special resolution that




(a)

adopts, in substitution for the charter of the special Act
corporation,




(i)

a notice of articles that reflects the information that will apply to
the converted company on its recognition, and




(ii)

subject to subsection (2), articles that comply with section 12 (1)
and (2) and, if the converted company is to be




(A)

a community contribution company, section 51.92, or




(B)

a benefit company, section 51.992, and




(b)

authorizes one or more of the directors of the special Act corporation
to sign the articles and to file the conversion application referred
to in subsection (3) (a) of this section with the registrar.




(2)

If the special Act corporation seeks to convert itself into a company,




(a)

one or more of the directors of the special Act corporation must sign
the articles referred to in subsection (1) (a) (ii), and




(b)

if the special Act corporation is a pre-existing reporting company,
the special Act corporation must include, in those articles,




(i)

the Statutory Reporting Company Provisions, or




(ii)

if a regulation has been made in respect of the corporation under
section 435, those provisions of the Statutory Reporting Company
Provisions that apply to the corporation.




(3)

A special Act corporation that has been authorized to do so under
subsection (1) of this section must, in order to apply for conversion
under this Division, submit to the registrar for filing




(a)

a conversion application, and




(b)

the minister's written consent to the conversion.




(4)

A conversion application must




(a)

be in the form established by the registrar,




(b)

set out




(i)

the name reserved for the company under section 22, and the
reservation number given for it, or




(ii)

if a name is not reserved, a statement that the name by which the
company is to be recognized is the name created by adding "B.C. Ltd."
or, if the company is to be a community contribution company, "B.C.
Community Contribution Company Ltd.", after the incorporation number
of the company, and




(c)

contain the notice of articles referred to in subsection (1) (a) (i)
of this section.




(5)

A special Act corporation is converted into a company under this
section




(a)

on the date and time that a conversion application is filed with the
registrar, or




(b)

subject to subsection (6) and section 410, if the conversion
application specifies a date, or a date and time, on which the
conversion is to take effect that is later than the date and time on
which the conversion application is filed with the registrar,




(i)

on the specified date and time, or,




(ii)

if no time is specified, at the beginning of the specified date.




(6)

At any time after a conversion application is filed with the registrar
under this section and before the special Act corporation is
converted, the minister may withdraw the conversion application by
filing with the registrar a notice of withdrawal in the form
established by the registrar identifying the conversion application.




(7)

After a special Act corporation is converted into a company, the
registrar must




(a)

issue a certificate of conversion showing the name of the converted
company and the date and time of its conversion,




(b)

furnish to the converted company




(i)

the certificate of conversion, and




(ii)

if requested to do so, a certified copy of the conversion application
and a certified copy of the notice of articles, and




(c)

publish in the prescribed manner a notice of the conversion.




(8)

Without limiting section 111 (1), after a special Act corporation is
converted into a company, the converted company must register in its
central securities register the shares of the company that were held
by shareholders of the corporation immediately before its conversion,
and, with respect to those shares, must register




(a)

the name and last known address of each of those shareholders,




(b)

the class, and any series, of those shares, and




(c)

the number of those shares held by each of those shareholders.






Articles on conversion of special Act corporation




267


At the time that a special Act corporation is converted into a company
under section 266 (5), the converted company has, as its articles, the
articles that have been signed by one or more of the directors of the
special Act corporation or, if, despite section 266 (2) (a), none of
the directors of the special Act corporation have signed articles for
the converted company, the converted company has, as its articles,




(a)

Table 1, or




(b)

if the converted company is a pre-existing reporting company,




(i)

Table 1, and




(ii)

the Statutory Reporting Company Provisions or, if a regulation has
been made in respect of the corporation under section 435, those
provisions of the Statutory Reporting Company Provisions that apply to
the corporation.






Interpretation for sections 267.2, 267.3, 268 and the Schedule




267.1


In sections 267.2, 267.3 and 268 and in the Schedule to this Act,
"member-funded society"
has the same meaning as in section 190 of the

Societies Act

.






Conversion of member-funded societies




267.2

(1)


Unless a contrary intention appears, words and expressions used in
subsection (2) have the same meaning as in the

Societies Act

.




(2)

A member-funded society may apply to convert itself into a company
under this Act if




(a)

it is authorized to do so by a special resolution that




(i)

adopts, in substitution for the constitution and bylaws of the
member-funded society,




(A)

a notice of articles that reflects the information that will apply to
the converted company on its recognition, and




(B)

subject to paragraph (b), articles that comply with section 12 (1) and
(2) and, if the converted company is to be




(I)

a community contribution company, section 51.92, or




(II)

a benefit company, section 51.992, and




(ii)

authorizes one or more of the directors of the member-funded society
to sign the articles and to file the conversion application referred
to in subsection (3) of this section with the registrar, and




(b)

one or more of the directors of the member-funded society sign the
articles referred to in paragraph (a) (i) (B) of this subsection.




(3)

A member-funded society that has been authorized to do so under
subsection (2) (a) must, in order to apply for conversion under
this Division, submit to the registrar for filing a conversion
application that




(a)

is in the form established by the registrar,




(b)

sets out




(i)

the name reserved for the company under section 22, and the
reservation number given for it, or




(ii)

if a name is not reserved, a statement that the name by which the
company is to be recognized is the name created by adding "B.C. Ltd."
or, if the company is to be a community contribution company, "B.C.
Community Contribution Company Ltd." after the incorporation number of
the company, and




(c)

contains the notice of articles referred to in subsection (2) (a) (i)
(A) of this section.




(4)

Subject to subsection (4.1), a member-funded society is converted into
a company under this section




(a)

on the date and time that a conversion application is filed with the
registrar, or




(b)

subject to section 410, if the conversion application specifies a
date, or a date and time, on which the conversion is to take effect
that is later than the date and time on which the conversion
application is filed with the registrar,




(i)

on the specified date and time, or




(ii)

if no time is specified, at the beginning of the specified date.




(4.1)

At any time after a conversion application is filed with the registrar
under this section and before the member-funded society is converted,
the society may withdraw the conversion application by filing with the
registrar a notice of withdrawal that identifies the conversion
application.




(5)

After a member-funded society is converted into a company, the
registrar must




(a)

issue a certificate of conversion showing the name of the converted
company and the date and time of its conversion,




(b)

furnish to the converted company




(i)

the certificate of conversion, and




(ii)

if requested to do so, a certified copy of the conversion application
and a certified copy of the notice of articles, and




(c)

publish in the prescribed manner a notice of the conversion.






Articles on conversion of member-funded society




267.3


At the time that a member-funded society is converted into a company
under section 267.2 (4), the converted company has, as its
articles, the articles that have been signed by one or more of the
directors of the member-funded society or, if, despite section 267.2
(2) (b), none of the directors of the member-funded society have
signed articles for the converted company, the converted company has,
as its articles, Table 1.






Effect of conversion




268

(1)


In this section,
"converting corporation"
means




(a)

a special Act corporation that is converting into a company under
section 266 (5), or




(b)

a member-funded society that is converting into a company under
section 267.2 (4).




(2)

At the time that a converting corporation is converted into a company
under section 266 (5) or 267.2 (4),




(a)

this Act, the notice of articles referred to in section 266 (4) (c)
or 267.2 (3) (c), as the case may be, and the articles
referred to in section 267 or 267.3, as the case may be, apply to
the converted company in the same manner as if it were a company
incorporated under this Act with that notice of articles and those
articles, and, if the converting corporation was




(i)

a special Act corporation, the former charter of the converting
corporation ceases to apply, or




(ii)

a member-funded society, the former constitution and bylaws, as those
terms are defined in section 1 of the

Societies Act

, of the converting corporation cease to apply,




(b)

the property, rights and interests of the converting corporation
continue to be the property, rights and interests of the converted
company,




(c)

the converted company continues to be liable for the obligations of
the converting corporation,




(d)

an existing cause of action, claim or liability to prosecution is
unaffected,




(e)

a legal proceeding being prosecuted or pending by or against the
converting corporation may be prosecuted, or its prosecution may be
continued, as the case may be, by or against the converted company,
and




(f)

a conviction against, or a ruling, order or judgment in favour of or
against, the converting corporation may be enforced by or against the
converted company.




(3)

Whether or not the requirements precedent and incidental to conversion
have been complied with, a notation in the corporate register that a
converting corporation has been converted into a company is conclusive
evidence for the purposes of this Act and for all other purposes that
the converting corporation has been duly converted into a company on
the date shown and the time, if any, shown in the corporate register.




Division 3 — Amalgamation





Amalgamation permitted




269


The following corporations may amalgamate and continue as one company:




(a)

a company with one or more other companies;




(b)

one or more companies with one or more foreign corporations.






Amalgamation agreements




270

(1)


In order for a company to amalgamate with one or more other
corporations under section 269 (a) or (b), it must, unless the
proposed amalgamation is to be effected under section 273 or 274,




(a)

enter into an amalgamation agreement with the other amalgamating
corporations, and




(b)

have the amalgamation agreement adopted by the company's shareholders
under section 271.




(2)

An amalgamation agreement referred to in subsection (1) of this
section must set out the terms and conditions of the amalgamation and
must, in particular,




(a)

set out the full name of each of the individuals who are to be the
directors of the amalgamated company, and the prescribed address for
each of those individuals,




(b)

set out the manner in which the issued shares of each amalgamating
corporation will be exchanged for one or more of the following:




(i)

securities of the amalgamated company;




(ii)

securities of any other corporation;




(iii)

money,




(c)

set out any other details necessary to perfect the amalgamation and to
provide for the subsequent management and operation of the amalgamated
company, and




(d)

have attached to it




(i)

a copy of the articles that the amalgamated company will have after
the amalgamation, which articles must comply with section 12 (1) and
(2) and, if the amalgamated company is to be




(A)

a community contribution company, section 51.92, or




(B)

a benefit company, section 51.992,


and be signed by one or more of the individuals referred to in
paragraph (a) of this subsection, and




(ii)

a form of amalgamation application that contains the information that
is to be included in the amalgamation application that will be filed
with the registrar under section 275 (1) (a).




(3)

Despite subsection (2) of this section, if shares of one of the
amalgamating corporations are held by or on behalf of another of the
amalgamating corporations,




(a)

the amalgamation agreement must provide for the cancellation of those
shares at the time that the amalgamation takes effect, without any
repayment of capital in respect of those shares, and




(b)

no provision may be made in the agreement for the exchange of those
shares for securities of the amalgamated company or of any other
corporation, or for money.






Shareholder adoption of amalgamation agreements




271

(1)


An amalgamation agreement is adopted by the shareholders of an
amalgamating company if




(a)

all of the shareholders, whether or not their shares otherwise carry
the right to vote, adopt the amalgamation agreement by a unanimous
resolution, or




(b)

the amalgamation agreement is adopted by the shareholders in
accordance with subsection (6).




(2)

If the amalgamation agreement is to be submitted for adoption at a
meeting under subsection (6), the amalgamating company must send a
notice of the meeting to each shareholder of the amalgamating company
at least the prescribed number of days before the date of the proposed
meeting.




(3)

A notice of meeting sent under subsection (2) must be accompanied by




(a)

a copy of the amalgamation agreement,




(b)

a summary of the amalgamation agreement in sufficient detail to permit
the shareholders to form a reasoned judgment concerning the matter, or




(c)

a notification that each shareholder may, on request, obtain a copy of
the amalgamation agreement before the meeting.




(4)

A company that has included in a notice of meeting referred to in
subsection (3) a notification referred to in subsection (3) (c) must,
unless the court orders otherwise, send, promptly and without charge,
a copy of the amalgamation agreement to each shareholder who requests
a copy.




(5)

Section 50 applies if a person does not receive the copy of the
amalgamation agreement to which the person is entitled.




(6)

An amalgamation agreement is adopted by the shareholders of an
amalgamating company for the purposes of subsection (1) (b) of this
section when




(a)

the shareholders approve adoption of the amalgamation agreement




(i)

by a special resolution, or




(ii)

if any of the shares held by the shareholders who under subsection (7)
are entitled to vote on the resolution to approve the adoption do not
otherwise carry the right to vote, by a resolution of the company's
shareholders passed by at least a special majority of the votes cast
by the company's shareholders, and




(b)

the shareholders holding shares of each class or series of shares to
which are attached rights or special rights or restrictions that would
be prejudiced or interfered with by the adoption of the amalgamation
agreement approve adoption of the amalgamation agreement by a special
separate resolution of those shareholders.




(7)

Each share of an amalgamating company carries the right to vote in
respect of a resolution referred to in subsection (6) (a) (ii) whether
or not that share otherwise carries the right to vote.




(8)

Section 61 does not apply to an amalgamation under this Division.






Shareholders may dissent




272


Any shareholder of an amalgamating company may send a notice of
dissent, under Division 2 of Part 8, in respect of a
resolution under section 271 (6) to adopt an amalgamation
agreement, to the amalgamating company of which the person is a
shareholder or, if the amalgamation has taken effect, to the
amalgamated company.






Vertical short form amalgamations




273

(1)


A holding corporation that is a company and one or more of its
subsidiary corporations may amalgamate and continue as one company
without complying with sections 270 and 271 if




(a)

the holding corporation, if a pre-existing company, has complied with
section 370 (1) or 436 (1),




(b)

all of the issued shares of each amalgamating subsidiary corporation
are held by one or more of the other amalgamating corporations,




(c)

the amalgamation is approved by a special resolution of the holding
corporation or by a resolution of its directors, and




(d)

the resolution requires that




(i)

the shares of each amalgamating subsidiary corporation be cancelled on
the amalgamation without any repayment of capital in respect of those
shares,




(ii)

the amalgamated company have, as its notice of articles and articles,
the notice of articles and articles of the holding corporation, and




(iii)

the amalgamated company refrain from issuing any securities in
connection with the amalgamation.




(2)

On an amalgamation under this section, the capital of the amalgamated
company is the same as the capital of the amalgamating holding
corporation.






Horizontal short form amalgamations




274

(1)


Two or more companies that are subsidiaries of the same holding
corporation or two or more companies that are either wholly owned by
the same individual or that are subsidiaries of one or more companies
wholly owned by that individual may amalgamate and continue as one
company without complying with sections 270 and 271 if




(a)

all of the issued shares of each amalgamating company are held by,




(i)

in the case of amalgamating companies that are subsidiaries of the
same holding corporation, the holding corporation or another
amalgamating company, or




(ii)

in the case of amalgamating companies that are wholly owned by the
same individual or by a subsidiary of a company wholly owned by that
individual, that individual or another amalgamating company,




(b)

the amalgamation is approved by each of the amalgamating companies by
a special resolution of the amalgamating company or by a resolution of
its directors,




(c)

the resolutions require that




(i)

subject to subsections (2) and (2.1) of this section, the shares of
all but one of the amalgamating companies be cancelled on the
amalgamation without any repayment of capital in respect of those
shares, and




(ii)

the amalgamated company have, as its notice of articles and articles,
the notice of articles and articles of the amalgamating company the
shares of which are not to be cancelled (which amalgamating company
is, in this section, called the "primary company"), and




(d)

the primary company, if a pre-existing company, has complied with
section 370 (1) or 436 (1).




(2)

If the amalgamation is one to which subsection (1) (a) (i) of this
section applies, the primary company must be a company all of the
issued shares of which are held by the holding corporation.




(2.1)

If the amalgamation is one to which subsection (1) (a) (ii) applies,
the primary company must be a company all of the issued shares of
which are held by the individual.




(3)

On an amalgamation under this section, the capital of the amalgamated
company consists of




(a)

the capital that was the capital of the primary company immediately
before the amalgamation, and




(b)

the capital that was the capital of the other amalgamating companies
other than the portion of that capital that is attributable to the
shares of any amalgamating company that were held by the primary
company or any other amalgamating company.






Formalities to amalgamation




275

(1)


In order to effect an amalgamation under this Division,




(a)

there must be filed with the registrar, on behalf of the amalgamating
corporations, an amalgamation application that complies with this
section, and




(b)

if any of the amalgamating corporations are foreign corporations,
there must be provided to the registrar the records and information
the registrar may require, including, without limitation, any proof
required by the registrar regarding the standing of the foreign
corporation in the foreign corporation's jurisdiction, and there must
be filed with the registrar any records the registrar may require,
including, without limitation, an authorization for the amalgamation
from the foreign corporation's jurisdiction.




(2)

An amalgamation application must




(a)

contain whichever of the following statements is applicable:




(i)

if the amalgamation has been approved by the court, that a copy of an
entered court order approving the amalgamation has been obtained under
section 276 or 278 (3) (b) (ii) and has been deposited in the records
office of each of the amalgamating companies;




(ii)

if the amalgamation is to be effected without court approval, that all
of the required affidavits under section 277 (1) have been obtained
and that the affidavit obtained from each amalgamating company has
been deposited in that company's records office,




(b)

in the case of an amalgamation to which section 270 applies, be in the
form established by the registrar and




(i)

set out




(A)

if the amalgamated company is to adopt as its name the name of one of
the amalgamating companies, the name to be adopted as the name of the
amalgamated company,




(B)

if clause (A) does not apply, the name reserved for the amalgamated
company under section 22, and the reservation number given for it, or




(C)

if clause (A) does not apply and if a name is not reserved for the
amalgamated company, a statement that the name by which the
amalgamated company is to be recognized is the name created,




(I)

in the case of a limited company, by adding "B.C. Ltd." or, if the
company is a community contribution company, "B.C. Community
Contribution Company Ltd.", after the incorporation number of the
company, or




(II)

in the case of an unlimited liability company, by adding "B.C.
Unlimited Liability Company" after the incorporation number of the
company, and




(ii)

contain a notice of articles that reflects the information that will
apply to the amalgamated company on its recognition,




(c)

in the case of an amalgamation under section 273,




(i)

be in the form established by the registrar for a short form
amalgamation, and




(ii)

adopt, as the notice of articles for the amalgamated company, the
notice of articles of the holding corporation, and




(d)

in the case of an amalgamation under section 274,




(i)

be in the form established by the registrar for a short form
amalgamation, and




(ii)

adopt, as the notice of articles for the amalgamated company, the
notice of articles of the amalgamating company the shares of which are
not cancelled.




(3)

An amalgamation application must not be submitted to the registrar for
filing under subsection (1) (a) of this section unless,




(a)

in the case of an amalgamation to which section 270 applies, the
amalgamation agreement has been adopted by each of the amalgamating
companies shown as parties to it, or




(b)

in the case of an amalgamation under section 273 or 274, the
amalgamation has been approved in accordance with the applicable
section.






Amalgamations with court approval




276

(1)


An amalgamation may be effected under section 275 with court approval,
and, for that purpose, a court order approving the amalgamation must
be obtained and a copy of that entered order must be deposited in the
records office of each of the amalgamating companies.




(2)

In order to obtain the court order required under subsection (1) of
this section, an application for the order must be filed with the
court at least 6 days after but not more than 2 months after,




(a)

in the case of an amalgamation to which section 270 applies, the date
on which the last of the amalgamating companies to adopt the
amalgamation agreement does so under section 271 (1),




(b)

in the case of an amalgamation under section 273, the date on which
the approval required under section 273 (1) (c) is obtained, or




(c)

in the case of an amalgamation under section 274, the date on which
the last of the approvals required under section 274 (1) (b) is
obtained.




(3)

An amalgamating company must give to a creditor or shareholder of the
amalgamating company at least 14 days' notice of the date, time and
place of the hearing of an application under subsection (2) of this
section if




(a)

the creditor or shareholder, by written notice, requires the company
to give the creditor or shareholder notice of the application, and




(b)

the written notice referred to in paragraph (a) is sent to the
registered office of the amalgamating company so that it is received
at that office before the hearing of the application and,




(i)

in the case of an amalgamation to which section 270 applies, not later
than 5 weeks after the date on which the last of the amalgamating
companies to adopt the amalgamation agreement does so under section
271 (1), or




(ii)

in the case of an amalgamation under section 273 or 274, not later
than 5 weeks after the date on which the last of the approvals
required under section 273 (1) (c) or 274 (1) (b), as the case may be,
is obtained.




(4)

On an application for an order to approve an amalgamation under
subsection (2) of this section,




(a)

a creditor or shareholder of any of the amalgamating corporations is
entitled to be heard,




(b)

the court must have regard to the rights and interests of each person
affected by the amalgamation, and




(c)

the court may




(i)

approve the amalgamation on the terms presented or substantially on
those terms, or




(ii)

dismiss the application.






Amalgamations without court approval




277

(1)


An amalgamation may be effected under section 275 without court
approval, and, for that purpose, there must be obtained from each
amalgamating company, and deposited in that company's records office,
an affidavit of a director or officer of that company that complies
with subsection (2) of this section.




(2)

The affidavit referred to in subsection (1) must




(a)

state whichever of the following is applicable to the amalgamating
company of which the individual making the affidavit is a director or
officer:




(i)

that the company has entered into an amalgamation agreement with the
other amalgamating corporations and that amalgamation agreement




(A)

complies with section 270, and




(B)

has been adopted in accordance with section 271;




(ii)

that the company proposes to amalgamate with one or more other
corporations under section 273 or 274, as the case may be, and the
amalgamation has been approved in accordance with section 273 or 274,
as the case may be, and




(b)

include whichever of the statements under subsection (3) is
applicable.




(3)

The affidavit referred to in subsection (1) must




(a)

state that the director or officer believes and has reasonable grounds
for believing that no creditor of the company will be materially
prejudiced by the amalgamation, or




(b)

state




(i)

that the company has complied with section 278, giving particulars of
the time and manner in which the required notices were sent, published
or provided, as the case may be,




(ii)

that the only objections in writing to the amalgamation received by
the company fall into one or more of the following categories:




(A)

objections on grounds that are frivolous or vexatious;




(B)

objections by creditors who received a written notice under section
278 (3) (a) and who did not, within 15 days after the date of that
notice, make application to the court for an order that the
amalgamation not proceed;




(C)

objections that have been dismissed by the court or withdrawn by the
creditor, and




(iii)

that the director or officer is not aware of there being any court
order, or any application for a court order, that the amalgamation not
proceed.






Notice to creditors in relation to an amalgamation without court
approval




278

(1)


Before an affidavit containing the statements referred to in section
277 (3) (b) is sworn, an amalgamating company must




(a)

send to each known creditor of the company having a claim against the
company that exceeds the prescribed amount, a written notice that
complies with subsection (2) of this section, and




(b)

publish in a newspaper that is distributed generally in the place
where the company has its registered office a notice that complies
with subsection (2).




(2)

Each notice sent in respect of an amalgamating company under
subsection (1) (a) and each notice published under subsection (1) (b)
must




(a)

declare the company's intention to amalgamate and specify the
amalgamating corporations,




(b)

include a statement by a director or officer of the company indicating
that the director or officer believes and has reasonable grounds for
believing that the amalgamated company will be, or will not be, as the
case may be, insolvent when the amalgamation takes effect, and




(c)

state that a creditor of the company who intends to object to the
amalgamation must provide to the company a written notice of objection
within 15 days after the sending or publication of the notice, as the
case may be.




(3)

If a creditor provides to the amalgamating company, in accordance with
subsection (2) (c), a notice of objection, other than in respect of an
objection that is frivolous or vexatious, the company must, if it
intends to proceed with the amalgamation,




(a)

provide to that creditor a written notice stating that the company
intends to proceed with the amalgamation unless, within 15 days after
the date of the notice, the court orders that the amalgamation must
not proceed, or




(b)

obtain whichever of the following court orders the company requires:




(i)

an order, on notice to that creditor, dismissing the objection of that
creditor;




(ii)

an order, on notice to all creditors who have provided a notice of
objection in accordance with subsection (2) (c), approving the
amalgamation.




(3.1)

Section 276 does not apply in respect of court orders referred to in
subsection (3) (b) of this section.




(4)

An amalgamation application affecting the amalgamating company must
not be submitted to the registrar for filing until after the 15 day
period referred to in subsection (2) (c) of this section, and, if
applicable, the 15 day period referred to in subsection (3) (a), have
expired.




(5)

A creditor having a claim against the amalgamating company may,
whether or not that creditor receives a notice under subsection (1)
(a) or (3) (a), apply to the court for an order that the proposed
amalgamation not proceed.




(6)

An application under subsection (5) must be made on such notice to the
amalgamating company as the court may order.






Amalgamation




279


Amalgamating corporations are amalgamated and continue as an
amalgamated company under this Division




(a)

on the date and time that the amalgamation application referred to in
section 275 (1) (a) is filed with the registrar, or




(b)

subject to sections 280 and 410, and unless the court orders otherwise
in an entered order of which a copy has been filed with the registrar,
if the amalgamation application specifies a date, or a date and time,
on which the amalgamation is to take effect that is later than the
date and time the amalgamation application is filed with the
registrar,




(i)

on the specified date and time, or




(ii)

if no time is specified, at the beginning of the specified date.






Withdrawal of amalgamation application




280


At any time after an amalgamation application is filed with the
registrar under section 275 (1) (a) and before the amalgamating
corporations are amalgamated, an amalgamating corporation or any other
person who appears to the registrar to be an appropriate person to do
so may withdraw the amalgamation application by filing with the
registrar a notice of withdrawal in the form established by the
registrar identifying the amalgamation application.






Registrar's duties on amalgamation




281


After amalgamating corporations are amalgamated as an amalgamated
company under this Division, the registrar must




(a)

issue a certificate of amalgamation showing




(i)

the name of the amalgamated company and the date and time of the
amalgamation,




(ii)

the names of the amalgamating corporations, and




(iii)

for each amalgamating corporation that is a foreign corporation, the
foreign corporation's jurisdiction,




(b)

furnish to the amalgamated company




(i)

the certificate of amalgamation, and




(ii)

if requested to do so, a certified copy of the amalgamation
application and a certified copy of the notice of articles of the
amalgamated company, and




(c)

publish in the prescribed manner a notice of the amalgamation.






Effect of amalgamation




282

(1)


At the time that amalgamating corporations are amalgamated as an
amalgamated company under this Division,




(a)

the amalgamation of the amalgamating corporations and their
continuation as one company becomes irrevocable,




(b)

the amalgamated company has, as its notice of articles,




(i)

in the case of an amalgamation to which section 270 applies, the
notice of articles contained in the amalgamation application,




(ii)

in the case of an amalgamation under section 273, the notice of
articles of the amalgamating holding corporation, or




(iii)

in the case of an amalgamation under section 274, the notice of
articles of the amalgamating company the shares of which are not
cancelled,




(c)

the amalgamated company has, as its articles,




(i)

in the case of an amalgamation to which section 270 applies, the
articles attached to the amalgamation agreement under section 270 (2)
(d) (i) if those articles have been signed by one or more of the
individuals identified in the amalgamation agreement as the directors
of the amalgamated company,




(ii)

in the case of an amalgamation to which section 270 applies and
articles are not attached to the amalgamation agreement, or the
attached articles are not signed as required under section 270 (2) (d)
(i), Table 1, or, if any of the amalgamating corporations is a
pre-existing reporting company,




(A)

Table 1, and




(B)

the Statutory Reporting Company Provisions,




(iii)

in the case of an amalgamation under section 273, the articles of the
amalgamating holding corporation, or




(iv)

in the case of an amalgamation under section 274, the articles of the
amalgamating company the shares of which are not cancelled,




(d)

the amalgamated company becomes capable immediately of exercising the
functions of an incorporated company,




(e)

the shareholders of the amalgamated company have the powers and the
liability provided in this Act,




(f)

each shareholder of each amalgamating corporation is bound by the
amalgamation agreement, if any,




(g)

the property, rights and interests of each amalgamating corporation
continue to be the property, rights and interests of the amalgamated
company,




(h)

the amalgamated company continues to be liable for the obligations of
each amalgamating corporation,




(i)

an existing cause of action, claim or liability to prosecution is
unaffected,




(j)

a legal proceeding being prosecuted or pending by or against an
amalgamating corporation may be prosecuted, or its prosecution may be
continued, as the case may be, by or against the amalgamated company,
and




(k)

a conviction against, or a ruling, order or judgment in favour of or
against, an amalgamating corporation may be enforced by or against the
amalgamated company.




(2)

An amalgamation does not constitute an assignment by operation of law,
a transfer or any other disposition of the property, rights and
interests of an amalgamating corporation to the amalgamated company.




(3)

Whether or not the requirements precedent and incidental to
amalgamation have been complied with, a notation in the corporate
register that corporations have been amalgamated as an amalgamated
company is conclusive evidence for the purposes of this Act and for
all other purposes that the corporations have been duly amalgamated on
the date shown and the time, if any, shown in the corporate register.




Division 4 — Amalgamation into a Foreign Jurisdiction





Definitions




283


In this Division:



"amalgamation"

includes any procedure that results in or that creates an amalgamated
foreign corporation;



"amalgamated foreign corporation"

means a foreign corporation that results from an amalgamation
involving a company.






Amalgamations into foreign jurisdictions




284

(1)


Subject to section 285, one or more companies and one or more foreign
corporations may amalgamate to form an amalgamated foreign corporation
if




(a)

the laws of each of the amalgamating foreign corporations'
jurisdictions allow the amalgamation,




(b)

each amalgamating foreign corporation obtains the approval to the
amalgamation required by its charter and otherwise complies with the
laws of the foreign corporation's jurisdiction with respect to the
amalgamation, and




(c)

each amalgamating company is authorized by its shareholders and by the
registrar in accordance with this section to enter into the
amalgamation.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1) (c) of this section, an
amalgamating company is authorized by its shareholders to enter into
the amalgamation when




(a)

all of the shareholders, whether or not their shares otherwise carry
the right to vote, approve the amalgamation by a unanimous resolution,
or




(b)

the amalgamation is approved by the shareholders in accordance with
subsection (4).




(3)

If the amalgamation is to be approved at a meeting under subsection
(4), the amalgamating company must send a notice of the meeting to
each shareholder of the company at least the prescribed number of days
before the date of the proposed meeting.




(4)

An amalgamation is approved by the shareholders of an amalgamating
company for the purposes of subsection (2) (b) when




(a)

the shareholders approve the amalgamation




(i)

by a special resolution, or




(ii)

if any of the shares held by the shareholders who under subsection (5)
are entitled to vote on the resolution to approve the amalgamation do
not otherwise carry the right to vote, by a resolution of the
company's shareholders passed by at least a special majority of the
votes cast by the company's shareholders, and




(b)

the shareholders holding shares of each class or series of shares to
which are attached rights or special rights or restrictions that would
be prejudiced or interfered with by the amalgamation approve the
amalgamation by a special separate resolution of those shareholders.




(5)

Each share of a company carries the right to vote in respect of a
resolution referred to in subsection (4) (a) (ii) whether or not that
share otherwise carries the right to vote.




(6)

Section 61 does not apply to an amalgamation under this Division.




(7)

A company seeking, under subsection (1) of this section, to amalgamate
with one or more foreign corporations to form an amalgamated foreign
corporation must, before entering into the amalgamation,




(a)

obtain and deposit in its records office an affidavit of one of its
directors or officers that complies with section 277 (2) (b) and that
states that the authorization to the amalgamation required under
subsection (2) of this section has been obtained, and




(b)

file with the registrar an application for authorization for
amalgamation in the form established by the registrar containing a
statement that the affidavit required under paragraph (a) has been
obtained and deposited in the company's records office.




(8)

Section 278 applies to an amalgamation proposed under this section.




(9)

Unless the court orders otherwise in an entered order of which a copy
has been filed with the registrar, the registrar must authorize a
company to amalgamate with one or more foreign corporations to form an
amalgamated foreign corporation if the registrar is satisfied that
each amalgamating company has filed with the registrar all of the
records that the company is required to file with the registrar under
this Act.




(10)

The authorization given by the registrar under subsection (9) of this
section expires 6 months after the date on which that authorization
was given.






When amalgamation under this Division prohibited




285


A company must not amalgamate with a foreign corporation to form an
amalgamated foreign corporation unless the laws of the foreign
corporation's jurisdiction to which the amalgamated foreign
corporation will be subject provide, in effect, that




(a)

the property, rights and interests of the amalgamating company
continue to be the property, rights and interests of the amalgamated
foreign corporation,




(b)

the amalgamated foreign corporation continues to be liable for the
obligations of the amalgamating company,




(c)

an existing cause of action, claim or liability to prosecution is
unaffected,




(d)

a legal proceeding being prosecuted or pending by or against the
amalgamating company may be prosecuted or its prosecution may be
continued, as the case may be, by or against the amalgamated foreign
corporation, and




(e)

a conviction against, or a ruling, order or judgment in favour of or
against, the amalgamating company may be enforced by or against the
amalgamated foreign corporation.






After amalgamation




286

(1)


If a company has amalgamated with one or more foreign corporations to
form an amalgamated foreign corporation, the amalgamated foreign
corporation must promptly file with the registrar a copy of any record
issued to the amalgamated foreign corporation by the amalgamated
foreign corporation's jurisdiction to effect or confirm the
amalgamation.




(2)

After a record referred to in subsection (1) is filed, the registrar
must publish in the prescribed manner a notice that the company in
respect of which the record was filed has amalgamated with one or more
foreign corporations to form an amalgamated foreign corporation.




(3)

The company ceases to be a company within the meaning of this Act when
the company is amalgamated with one or more foreign corporations to
form an amalgamated foreign corporation.






Shareholders may dissent




287


Any shareholder of an amalgamating company may send a notice of
dissent, under Division 2 of Part 8, in respect of a resolution under
section 284 (4) to approve an amalgamation under this Division, to the
amalgamating company of which the person is a shareholder or, if the
amalgamation has taken effect, to the amalgamated foreign corporation.




Division 5 — Arrangements





Arrangement may be proposed




288

(1)


Despite any other provision of this Act, a company may propose an
arrangement with shareholders, creditors or other persons and may, in
that arrangement, make any proposal it considers appropriate,
including a proposal for one or more of the following:




(a)

an alteration to the memorandum, notice of articles or articles of the
company;




(b)

an alteration to any of the rights or special rights or restrictions
attached to any of the shares of the company;




(c)

an amalgamation of the company with one or more corporations;




(d)

a division of the business carried on by the company;




(e)

a transfer of all or any part of the money, securities or other
property, rights and interests of the company to another corporation
in exchange for money, securities or other property, rights and
interests of the other corporation;




(f)

a transfer of all or any part of the liabilities of the company to
another corporation;




(g)

an exchange of securities of the company held by security holders for
money, securities or other property, rights and interests of the
company or for money, securities or other property, rights and
interests of another corporation;




(h)

a dissolution without liquidation, or a liquidation and dissolution,
of the company;




(i)

a compromise between the company and its creditors or any class of its
creditors, or between the company and the persons holding its
securities or any class of those persons.




(2)

Before an arrangement proposed under this section takes effect, the
arrangement must be




(a)

adopted in accordance with section 289, and




(b)

approved by the court under section 291.






Adoption of arrangement




289

(1)


Despite sections 264 and 265, an arrangement is adopted for the
purposes of section 288 (2) (a) if,




(a)

in respect of an arrangement proposed with the shareholders of the
company,




(i)

the shareholders approve the arrangement by a special resolution, or




(ii)

if any of the shares held by the shareholders who under subsection (2)
are entitled to vote on the resolution to approve the arrangement do
not otherwise carry the right to vote, the shareholders approve the
arrangement by a resolution passed at a meeting by at least a special
majority of the votes cast by the shareholders, if at least the
prescribed number of days' notice of the meeting and of the intention
to propose the resolution has been sent to all of the shareholders,




(b)

in respect of an arrangement proposed with the shareholders holding
shares of a class or series of shares of the company, those
shareholders approve the arrangement by a special separate resolution
of those shareholders,




(c)

in respect of an arrangement proposed with some of the shareholders
holding shares of a class or series of shares of the company, those
shareholders approve the arrangement by a resolution passed at a
meeting by at least a special majority of the votes cast by those
shareholders, if at least the prescribed number of days' notice of the
meeting and of the intention to propose the resolution has been sent
to all of those shareholders,




(d)

in respect of an arrangement proposed with creditors of the company or
a class of creditors of the company, a majority in number and 3/4 in
value of the creditors or class of creditors, as the case may be,
present and voting, either personally or by proxy, approve the
arrangement at a meeting if at least 21 days' notice of the meeting,
and of the intention to propose the arrangement, has been sent to all
of those creditors with whom the arrangement is proposed,




(e)

in respect of an arrangement proposed with any other persons, those
persons approve the arrangement in the manner and to the extent
required by the court, or




(f)

in respect of any arrangement, all of the persons who would be
entitled to vote under this section in respect of the arrangement
consent to the arrangement in writing.




(2)

Each share of a company carries the right to vote in respect of a
resolution referred to in subsection (1) (a) (ii) whether or not that
share otherwise carries the right to vote.




(3)

If the court orders, under section 291 (2) (b) (i), that a meeting be
held to adopt an arrangement in addition to or in substitution for a
meeting contemplated by subsection (1) of this section, the
arrangement must not be submitted to the court for approval until
after




(a)

the arrangement has been adopted at that court ordered meeting, or




(b)

all of the persons who were entitled to vote at that meeting consent
to the arrangement in writing.




(3.1)

If the court orders, under section 291 (2) (b) (ii), that a separate
vote of specified persons be held to adopt an arrangement in addition
to or in substitution for a meeting contemplated by subsection (1) of
this section, the arrangement must not be submitted to the court for
approval until after




(a)

the arrangement has been adopted by that vote, or




(b)

all of the persons who were entitled to vote in that separate vote
consent to the arrangement in writing.




(4)

If an arrangement is consented to under subsection (1) (f), (3) (b) or
(3.1) (b),




(a)

the meeting or vote that would otherwise have been necessary under
subsection (1), (3) or (3.1) need not be held, and




(b)

the consent is as valid and effective as if it had been expressed in a
vote passed at a meeting.




(5)

Section 61 does not apply to an arrangement under this Division.






Information regarding arrangement




290

(1)


If a meeting is called to adopt an arrangement, the company must,
unless the court orders otherwise,




(a)

include with any notice of the meeting that is sent to a person who is
entitled to vote at the meeting, a statement




(i)

explaining, in sufficient detail to permit the recipient to form a
reasoned judgment concerning the matter, the effect of the
arrangement, and




(ii)

stating any material interest of each director and officer, whether as
director, officer, shareholder, security holder or creditor of the
company, or otherwise, and




(b)

include in any advertisement of the meeting,




(i)

the statement required by paragraph (a), or




(ii)

a notification that the persons who are entitled to vote at the
meeting may, on request, obtain copies of the statement before the
meeting.




(2)

If the arrangement affects the rights of qualifying debentureholders,
the statement referred to in subsection (1) (a) must, unless the court
orders otherwise or unless the trustee for the qualifying
debentureholders is a savings institution, include a statement
regarding any material interest of the trustee for the qualifying
debentureholders.




(3)

A company that has included in an advertisement referred to in
subsection (1) (b) a notification that copies of the statement
referred to in subsection (1) (a) may be obtained must, unless the
court orders otherwise, send, promptly and without charge, a copy of
the statement to each person entitled to vote at the meeting who
requests a copy.




(4)

Section 50 applies if a person who is entitled to receive a copy of
the statement referred to in subsection (1) (a) of this section does
not receive the copy.






Role of court in arrangements




291

(1)


If an arrangement is proposed, the court may make an order respecting
that arrangement under subsection (2)




(a)

on its own motion,




(b)

on the application of the company, or




(c)

on the application, made on notice to the company, of




(i)

a shareholder of the company,




(ii)

a creditor of the company, or




(iii)

a person who is a member of the class of persons with whom the
arrangement is proposed.




(2)

The court may, in respect of a proposed arrangement, make any order it
considers appropriate, including any of the following orders:




(a)

an order determining the notice to be given to any interested person,
or dispensing with notice to any person, in relation to any
application to court under this Division;




(b)

an order requiring the company to do one or both of the following in
the manner and with the notice the court directs:




(i)

call, hold and conduct one or more meetings of the persons the court
considers appropriate;




(ii)

hold a separate vote of the persons the court considers appropriate;




(c)

an order permitting shareholders to dissent under Division 2 of Part 8
or in any other manner the court may direct;




(d)

an order appointing a lawyer, at the expense of the company, to
represent the interests of some or all of the shareholders;




(e)

an order directing that an arrangement proposed with the creditors or
a class of creditors of the company be referred to the shareholders of
the company in the manner and for the approval the court considers
appropriate.




(3)

As part of any order made in respect of a company under subsection (2)
(c) of this section, the court may direct the company to provide, in
the manner specified by the order, a copy of the entered order to all
or specified shareholders.




(4)

Without limiting subsections (1) to (3) but despite any other
provision of this Act, on an application to court for approval of the
arrangement,




(a)

if the arrangement has been adopted under section 289 and, if
required, approved by the shareholders in accordance with an order
made under subsection (2) (e) of this section, the court may make an
order approving the arrangement on the terms presented or
substantially on those terms or may refuse to approve that
arrangement,




(b)

if, under the arrangement, money, securities or other property, rights
or interests, or liabilities, of the company are to be transferred to
another corporation, the court may make




(i)

an order providing for the allotment or appropriation by the receiving
corporation of any shares or other securities that, under the
arrangement, are to be allotted or appropriated to or for any person,




(ii)

an order providing for the continuation by or against the receiving
corporation of any legal proceedings pending by or against the
transferring company, or




(iii)

an order providing for the dissolution of the transferring company,
and




(c)

the court may make any incidental, consequential and supplemental
orders necessary to ensure that the arrangement is fully and
effectively carried out.




(5)

If an order of the court made under this section provides for the
transfer of money, securities or other property, rights or interests,
or liabilities, of the company,




(a)

the money, securities or other property, rights or interests are
deemed to be transferred to and to vest in the receiving corporation,
or the liabilities are deemed to be transferred to and become the
liabilities of the receiving corporation, when the applicable
provisions of the order take effect, and




(b)

any particular money, securities or other property, rights or
interests that are, by the arrangement, to be freed from any charge
are freed from that charge if the order so directs.






Required filings




292


Subject to sections 293 and 294, if any of the provisions of an
arrangement that is approved by a court order under section 291 will,
on taking effect, alter information shown in the corporate register,
the company must




(a)

provide to the registrar the records and information the registrar
requires, and file with the registrar the records the registrar
requires, to give effect to each provision of the arrangement that
will alter information shown in the corporate register, and




(b)

concurrently with the first record filed under paragraph (a), file
with the registrar a copy of the entered court order.






Obligations on company if memorandum altered




293

(1)


This section applies if




(a)

the company in respect of which an arrangement has been approved by a
court order under section 291 is a pre-existing company that has not
complied with section 370 or 436, and




(b)

a provision of the arrangement will, on taking effect, alter the
company's memorandum or otherwise affect the company so that
information contained in its memorandum is incorrect or incomplete.




(2)

In the circumstances referred to in subsection (1) of this section,
the company must, promptly after the making of the order and before
complying with section 292, comply with section 370 or 436, as the
case may be.






Obligations on company if articles altered




294

(1)


This section applies if an arrangement is approved by a court order
under section 291 and a provision of the arrangement will, on taking
effect, alter the company's articles or otherwise affect the company
so that information contained in its articles is incorrect or
incomplete.




(2)

In the circumstances referred to in subsection (1) of this section, if
the company is a pre-existing company that has not complied with
section 370 or 436, the company must, promptly after the making of the
order and before complying with section 292, comply with section 370
or 436, as the case may be.




(3)

Promptly after the making of an order referred to in subsection (1) of
this section and, in the case of a company to which subsection (2)
applies, after compliance by the company with subsection (2), the
company must alter its articles in accordance with the order by
depositing a copy of the entered order at the company's records
office.




(4)

Section 259 (4) to (6) applies to an alteration to the articles
referred to in subsection (3) of this section, including, without
limiting this, to a change of name or an adoption or change of any
translation of name, and, for that purpose, a reference in section 259
(4) to (6) to a resolution is deemed to be a reference to the court
order obtained under section 291.






If arrangement includes amalgamation




295

(1)


If a provision of an arrangement approved by a court order under
section 291 will, on taking effect, result in an amalgamation under
which a company and one or more corporations amalgamate and continue
as one company, the court may, by order, provide for the incidental,
consequential and supplemental matters necessary to ensure that the
amalgamation is fully and effectively carried out and, without
limiting this, may make orders respecting the articles, notice of
articles, directors, registered office and records office applicable
to the amalgamated company.




(2)

On an amalgamation referred to in subsection (1), the amalgamated
company has, as its articles,




(a)

the articles ordered by the court, or




(b)

if paragraph (a) of this subsection does not apply,




(i)

Table 1, or




(ii)

if any of the amalgamating corporations is a pre-existing reporting
company, Table 1 and the Statutory Reporting Company Provisions.






Application of Act to arrangements




296


The provisions of this Act that set out the effect of an alteration to
the notice of articles, an amalgamation, a liquidation or another
occurrence of a particular type, including the provisions that impose
obligations on the registrar in relation to occurrences of that type
and the provisions respecting when the occurrence takes effect, apply
to an occurrence of that type that is effected under an arrangement.






Binding effect of arrangements




297

(1)


On and from the time at which a provision of an arrangement takes
effect, the provision is binding on the company and on the persons
with whom the arrangement was proposed.




(2)

Nothing in this section affects the rights of a company and a
dissenter under Division 2 of Part 8.






Abandoning arrangements




298

(1)


A company may abandon an arrangement if




(a)

the directors pass a resolution resolving not to proceed with the
arrangement,




(b)

the arrangement is abandoned before any of the provisions of the
arrangement take effect, and




(c)

any records filed with the registrar in relation to the arrangement
are withdrawn.




(2)

Neither the company nor the shareholders, creditors or other persons
with whom an arrangement is proposed are bound by the provisions of
the arrangement if the company abandons the arrangement in accordance
with subsection (1).




(3)

Promptly after the company abandons an arrangement in accordance with
subsection (1), the directors must send notice to that effect to the
shareholders, creditors or other persons with whom the arrangement was
proposed.






Withdrawal of arrangement records




299

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), at any time after records referred to in
section 292 are filed with the registrar, the company or any other
person who appears to the registrar to be an appropriate person to do
so may withdraw those records by filing with the registrar a notice of
withdrawal in the form established by the registrar identifying those
records.




(2)

Records filed under section 292 must not be withdrawn unless




(a)

all of the records filed under section 292 are withdrawn under
subsection (1) of this section, and




(b)

the records are withdrawn under subsection (1) before any of the
provisions of the arrangement take effect.




Division 6 — Compulsory Acquisitions





Acquisition procedures




300

(1)


In this section:



"acquiring person"

means a person who, under a scheme or contract, makes an acquisition
offer, and includes 2 or more persons who, directly or indirectly,




(a)

make an acquisition offer jointly or in concert, or




(b)

intend to exercise jointly or in concert voting rights attached to
shares for which an acquisition offer is made;



"acquisition offer"

means an offer made by an acquiring person to acquire shares, or any
class of shares, of a company;


"offeree"
, in respect of an acquisition offer, means a shareholder to whom the
acquisition offer is made;



"subject company"

means the company, shares or any class of shares of which are the
subject of an acquisition offer.




(2)

For the purposes of this section,




(a)

every acquisition offer for shares of more than one class of shares is
deemed to be a separate acquisition offer for shares of each class of
shares, and




(b)

each acquisition offer is accepted if, within 4 months after the
making of the offer, the offer is accepted regarding the shares, or
regarding each class of shares involved, by shareholders who, in the
aggregate, hold at least 9/10 of those shares or of the shares of that
class of shares, other than shares already held at the date of the
offer by, or by a nominee for, the acquiring person or its affiliate.




(3)

If an acquisition offer is accepted within the meaning of subsection
(2) (b), the acquiring person may, within 5 months after making the
offer, send written notice to any offeree who did not accept the
offer, that the acquiring person wants to acquire the shares of that
offeree that were involved in the offer.




(4)

If a notice is sent to an offeree under subsection (3), the acquiring
person is entitled and bound to acquire all of the shares of that
offeree that were involved in the offer for the same price and on the
same terms contained in the acquisition offer unless the court orders
otherwise on an application made by that offeree within 2 months after
the date of the notice.




(5)

On the application of an offeree under subsection (4), the court may




(a)

set the price and terms of payment, and




(b)

make consequential orders and give directions the court considers
appropriate.




(6)

If a notice has been sent by an acquiring person under subsection (3)
and the court has not ordered otherwise under subsection (4), the
acquiring person must, no earlier than 2 months after the date of the
notice, or, if an application to the court by the offeree to whom the
notice was sent is then pending, at any time after that application
has been disposed of,




(a)

send a copy of the notice to the subject company, and




(b)

pay or transfer to the subject company the amount or other
consideration representing the price payable by the acquiring person
for the shares that are referred to in the notice.




(7)

On receiving the copy of the notice and the amount or other
consideration referred to in subsection (6), the subject company must
register the acquiring person as a shareholder with respect to those
shares.




(8)

Any amount received by the subject company under this section must be
paid into a separate account at a savings institution and, together
with any other consideration so received, must be held by the subject
company, or by a trustee approved by the court, in trust for the
persons entitled to that sum.




(9)

If the acquiring person has not, within one month after becoming
entitled to do so, sent the notice referred to in subsection (3), the
acquiring person must send a written notice to each offeree referred
to in subsection (3) stating that the offeree, within 3 months after
receiving the notice, may require the acquiring person to acquire the
shares of that offeree that were involved in the acquisition offer.




(10)

If an offeree requires the acquiring person to acquire the offeree's
shares in accordance with subsection (9), the acquiring person must
acquire those shares for the same price and on the same terms
contained in the acquisition offer.




Division 7 — Disposal of Undertaking





Power to dispose of undertaking




301

(1)


A company must not sell, lease or otherwise dispose of all or
substantially all of its undertaking unless




(a)

it does so in the ordinary course of its business, or




(b)

it has been authorized to do so by a special resolution.




(2)

If the company contravenes subsection (1) in respect of a disposition
of all or substantially all of a company's undertaking, the court, on
the application of any shareholder, director or creditor of the
company, may, unless subsection (3) applies, do one or more of the
following:




(a)

enjoin the proposed disposition;




(b)

set aside the disposition;




(c)

make any other order the court considers appropriate.




(3)

A disposition of all or substantially all of the undertaking of a
company is not invalid merely because the company contravenes
subsection (1), if the disposition is




(a)

for valuable consideration to a person who is dealing with the company
in good faith, or




(b)

ratified by a special resolution.




(4)

Despite the passing of a special resolution under subsection (1) (b)
or (3) (b) to authorize or ratify a disposition of all or
substantially all of the undertaking of a company, the directors may
abandon the disposition without further action by the shareholders.




(5)

Any shareholder of the company may send notice of dissent, under
Division 2 of Part 8, to the company in respect of a special
resolution under subsection (1) (b) or (3) (b).




(6)

The prohibition in subsection (1) does not apply to a disposition of
all or substantially all of the undertaking of the company




(a)

by way of security interest,




(b)

by a lease if




(i)

the term of the lease, at its beginning, does not exceed 3 years, and




(ii)

any option or covenant for renewal included in the lease is not
capable of extending the total lease periods beyond 3 years,




(c)

to a corporation that is a wholly owned subsidiary of the company,




(d)

to a corporation of which the company is a wholly owned subsidiary,




(e)

to a corporation if the company and the corporation are




(i)

wholly owned subsidiaries of the same holding corporation, or




(ii)

wholly owned by the same person, or




(f)

to the person, other than a corporation, who holds all of the shares
of




(i)

the company, or




(ii)

a corporation of which the company is a wholly owned subsidiary.




Division 8 — Transfer of Incorporation





Application for continuation into British Columbia




302

(1)


If a foreign corporation seeks to be continued into British Columbia
as a company, whether or not the foreign corporation is registered as
an extraprovincial company,




(a)

the foreign corporation must file with the registrar a continuation
application,




(b)

the foreign corporation must provide to the registrar the records and
information the registrar may require, including, without limitation,
any proof required by the registrar regarding the standing of the
foreign corporation in the foreign corporation's jurisdiction, and
must file with the registrar any records the registrar may require,
including, without limitation, an authorization for the continuation
from the foreign corporation's jurisdiction, and




(c)

one or more of the directors of the foreign corporation must sign the
articles that the foreign corporation will have once it is continued
into British Columbia as a company, which articles must comply with
section 12 (1) and (2) and, if the continued company is to be




(i)

a community contribution company, section 51.92, or




(ii)

a benefit company, section 51.992.




(2)

A continuation application under subsection (1) (a) of this section
must




(a)

be in the form established by the registrar,




(b)

set out




(i)

the name reserved for the continued company under section 22, and the
reservation number given for it, or




(ii)

if a name is not reserved, a statement that the name by which the
continued company is to be recognized is the name created,




(A)

in the case of a limited company, by adding "B.C. Ltd." or, if the
company is a community contribution company, "B.C. Community
Contribution Company Ltd.", after the incorporation number of the
company, or




(B)

in the case of an unlimited liability company, by adding "B.C.
Unlimited Liability Company" after the incorporation number of the
company, and




(c)

contain a notice of articles that reflects the information that will
apply to the continued company on its recognition.




(3)

A foreign corporation seeking to be continued into British Columbia as
a company may, by one or both of the articles referred to in
subsection (1) (c) of this section and the notice of articles referred
to in subsection (2) (c), effect any amendment to its charter if the
amendment is an amendment that a company may make to its charter under
this Act.






Continuation




303

(1)


A foreign corporation is continued into British Columbia as a company




(a)

on the date and time that the continuation application referred to in
section 302 (1) (a) is filed with the registrar, or




(b)

subject to sections 304 and 410, if the continuation application
specifies a date, or a date and time, on which the continuation is to
take effect that is later than the date and time on which the
continuation application is filed with the registrar,




(i)

on the specified date and time, or




(ii)

if no time is specified, at the beginning of the specified date.




(2)

After a foreign corporation is continued into British Columbia as a
company, the registrar must




(a)

issue a certificate of continuation showing the name of the continued
company and the date and time on which it was continued into British
Columbia as a company,




(b)

furnish to the continued company




(i)

the certificate of continuation, and




(ii)

if requested to do so, a certified copy of the continuation
application and a certified copy of the continued company's notice of
articles, and




(c)

publish in the prescribed manner a notice of the continuation.




(3)

Without limiting section 111 (1), after a foreign corporation is
continued into British Columbia as a company, the continued company
must register in its central securities register the shares of the
company that were held by shareholders of the corporation immediately
before its continuation, and, with respect to those shares, must
register




(a)

the name and last known address of each of those shareholders,




(b)

the class, and any series, of those shares, and




(c)

the number of those shares held by each of those shareholders.






Withdrawal of continuation application




304


At any time after a continuation application is filed with the
registrar under section 302 (1) (a) and before a foreign corporation
is continued into British Columbia as a company, the foreign
corporation or any other person who appears to the registrar to be an
appropriate person to do so may withdraw the continuation application
by filing with the registrar a notice of withdrawal in the form
established by the registrar identifying the continuation application.






Effect of continuation




305

(1)


At the time that a foreign corporation is continued into British
Columbia as a company under this Division,




(a)

this Act applies to the continued company to the same extent as if the
company had been incorporated under this Act,




(a.1)

the continued company has, as its notice of articles, the notice of
articles contained in the continuation application,




(b)

the property, rights and interests of the foreign corporation continue
to be the property, rights and interests of the company,




(c)

the company continues to be liable for the obligations of the foreign
corporation,




(d)

an existing cause of action, claim or liability to prosecution is
unaffected,




(e)

a legal proceeding being prosecuted or pending by or against the
foreign corporation may be prosecuted or its prosecution may be
continued, as the case may be, by or against the company, and




(f)

a conviction against, or a ruling, order or judgment in favour of or
against, the foreign corporation may be enforced by or against the
company.




(2)

Whether or not the requirements precedent and incidental to
continuation have been complied with, a notation in the corporate
register that a foreign corporation has been continued into British
Columbia as a company is conclusive evidence for the purposes of this
Act and for all other purposes that the foreign corporation has been
duly continued into British Columbia as a company on the date shown
and the time, if any, shown in the corporate register.






Rights preserved




306

(1)


In this section,
"share"
includes a warrant, fractional share or evidence of an interest in or
a right to acquire an interest in a foreign corporation being
continued into British Columbia as a company.




(2)

If a foreign corporation continued into British Columbia as a company
under this Division issued a share before the foreign corporation was
so continued, the share is deemed to have been issued in compliance
with this Act and with the provisions of the articles applicable to
the continued company under section 307,




(a)

whether or not the share is fully paid, and




(b)

despite any special rights or restrictions attached to the share.




(3)

Continuation of a foreign corporation into British Columbia as a
company under this Division does not deprive a person holding an
issued share of the foreign corporation of any right or special rights
or restrictions that that person claims under, or relieve the person
from any liability in respect of, that share.






Articles for a continued company




307


When a foreign corporation is continued into British Columbia as a
company, the continued company has, as its articles,




(a)

if one or more of the directors of the foreign corporation have signed
articles for the continued company in accordance with section 302 (1)
(c), those articles, or




(b)

in any other case, Table 1.






Application for continuation out of British Columbia




308

(1)


Subject to section 310, a company may, if it is authorized by the
shareholders and by the registrar in accordance with this section,
make an application to the appropriate official or public body of
another jurisdiction requesting that the company be continued into
that other jurisdiction as if the company had been incorporated under
the laws of that other jurisdiction.




(2)

A company is authorized by the shareholders to apply for continuation
into a jurisdiction other than British Columbia when the shareholders
authorize the continuation by a special resolution.




(3)

Section 61 does not apply to a continuation under this section.




(4)

A company seeking, under subsection (1) of this section, to be
continued into a foreign jurisdiction must, before applying to that
foreign jurisdiction for continuation into that jurisdiction, apply to
the registrar for an authorization under subsection (5).




(5)

The registrar must authorize the company to continue into the foreign
jurisdiction if the registrar is satisfied that the company has filed
with the registrar all of the records that the company is required to
file with the registrar under this Act.




(6)

The authorization given by the registrar under subsection (5) of this
section expires 6 months after the date on which that authorization
was given.






Shareholders may dissent




309


Any shareholder of a company may send a notice of dissent, under
Division 2 of Part 8, in respect of a resolution under section 308 (2)
to authorize the continuation of the company into a jurisdiction other
than British Columbia, to the company or, if the continuation has
taken effect, to the continued corporation.






When continuation out of British Columbia prohibited




310


A company must not apply to be continued into another jurisdiction
unless the laws of that other jurisdiction provide, in effect, that,
after continuation,




(a)

the property, rights and interests of the company continue to be the
property, rights and interests of the continued corporation,




(b)

the continued corporation continues to be liable for the obligations
of the company,




(c)

an existing cause of action, claim or liability to prosecution is
unaffected,




(d)

a legal proceeding being prosecuted or pending by or against the
company may be prosecuted or its prosecution may be continued, as the
case may be, by or against the continued corporation, and




(e)

a conviction against, or a ruling, order or judgment in favour of or
against, the company may be enforced by or against the continued
corporation.






After continuation




311

(1)


Promptly after the date on which a company is continued into another
jurisdiction, the continued corporation must file with the registrar a
copy of any record issued to it by the other jurisdiction to effect or
confirm the continuation.




(2)

After a record referred to in subsection (1) is filed, the registrar
must publish in the prescribed manner a notice that the company in
respect of which the record was filed has been continued into that
other jurisdiction.




(3)

The company ceases to be a company within the meaning of this Act when
the company is continued into the other jurisdiction.




Contents
|


Part 1
|


Part 2
|


Part 2.1
|


Part 2.2
|


Part 2.3
|


Part 3
|


Part 4
|


Part 4.1
|


Part 5
|


Part 6
|


Part 7
|


Part 8
|

Part 9 |

Part 10
|


Part 11
|


Part 12
|


Part 13
|


Part 14
|


Schedule




