





View Complete Statute



Community Charter
[SBC 2003] CHAPTER 26



Part 1 â€” Principles, Purposes and Interpretation





Principles of municipal governance




1

(1)


Municipalities and their councils are recognized as an order of
government within their jurisdiction that




(a)

is democratically elected, autonomous, responsible and accountable,




(b)

is established and continued by the will of the residents of their
communities, and




(c)

provides for the municipal purposes of their communities.




(2)

In relation to subsection (1), the Provincial government recognizes
that municipalities require




(a)

adequate powers and discretion to address existing and future
community needs,




(b)

authority to determine the public interest of their communities,
within a legislative framework that supports balance and certainty in
relation to the differing interests of their communities,




(c)

the ability to draw on financial and other resources that are adequate
to support community needs,




(d)

authority to determine the levels of municipal expenditures and
taxation that are appropriate for their purposes, and




(e)

authority to provide effective management and delivery of services in
a manner that is responsive to community needs.






Principles of municipal-provincial relations




2

(1)


The citizens of British Columbia are best served when, in their
relationship, municipalities and the Provincial government




(a)

acknowledge and respect the jurisdiction of each,




(b)

work towards harmonization of Provincial and municipal enactments,
policies and programs, and




(c)

foster cooperative approaches to matters of mutual interest.




(2)

The relationship between municipalities and the Provincial government
is based on the following principles:




(a)

the Provincial government respects municipal authority and
municipalities respect Provincial authority;




(b)

the Provincial government must not assign responsibilities to
municipalities unless there is provision for resources required to
fulfill the responsibilities;




(c)

consultation is needed on matters of mutual interest, including
consultation by the Provincial government on




(i)

proposed changes to local government legislation,




(ii)

proposed changes to revenue transfers to municipalities, and




(iii)

proposed changes to Provincial programs that will have a significant
impact in relation to matters that are within municipal authority;




(d)

the Provincial government respects the varying needs and conditions of
different municipalities in different areas of British Columbia;




(e)

consideration of municipal interests is needed when the Provincial
government participates in interprovincial, national or international
discussions on matters that affect municipalities;




(f)

the authority of municipalities is balanced by the responsibility of
the Provincial government to consider the interests of the citizens of
British Columbia generally;




(g)

the Provincial government and municipalities should attempt to resolve
conflicts between them by consultation, negotiation, facilitation and
other forms of dispute resolution.






Purposes of Act




3


The purposes of this Act are to provide municipalities and their
councils with




(a)

a legal framework for the powers, duties and functions that are
necessary to fulfill their purposes,




(b)

the authority and discretion to address existing and future community
needs, and




(c)

the flexibility to determine the public interest of their communities
and to respond to the different needs and changing circumstances of
their communities.






Broad interpretation




4

(1)


The powers conferred on municipalities and their councils under this
Act or the

Local Government Act

must be interpreted broadly in accordance with the purposes of those
Acts and in accordance with municipal purposes.




(2)

If




(a)

an enactment confers a specific power on a municipality or council in
relation to a matter, and




(b)

the specific power can be read as coming within a general power
conferred under this Act or the

Local Government Act

,


the general power must not be interpreted as being limited by that
specific power, but that aspect of the general power that encompasses
the specific power may only be exercised subject to any conditions and
restrictions established in relation to the specific power.






Definitions and other interpretation rules




5


The Schedule to this Act establishes definitions of terms used in this
Act and rules of interpretation that apply to this Act.




Contents
|

Part 1 |

Part 2
|


Part 3
|


Part 4
|


Part 5
|


Part 6
|


Part 7
|


Part 8
|


Part 9
|


Schedule




