





View Complete Statute



Election Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 106



Part 12 — Offences





Penalties under this Part are in addition to any others




251


Any penalty under this Part is in addition to and not in place of any
other penalty to which an individual or organization may be liable
under this Act in respect of the same matter.






Prosecution of offences




252

(1)


A prosecution for an offence under this Act may not be commenced
without the approval of the chief electoral officer.




(1.1)

If the chief electoral officer is satisfied that there are reasonable
grounds to believe that an individual or organization has contravened
this Act, the chief electoral officer may refer the matter to the
Criminal Justice Branch of the Ministry of Attorney General for a
determination of whether to approve prosecution.




(2)

The time limit for laying an information respecting an offence under
this Act is 2 years after the facts on which the information is based
first came to the knowledge of the chief electoral officer.




(3)

A document purporting to have been issued by the chief electoral
officer, certifying the day on which the chief electoral officer
became aware of the facts on which an information is based, is
admissible without proof of the signature or official character of the
individual appearing to have signed the document and, in the absence
of evidence to the contrary, is proof of the matter certified.






Prosecution of organizations and their directors and agents




253

(1)


An act or thing done or omitted by an officer, director, employee or
agent of an organization within the scope of the individual's
authority to act on behalf of the organization is deemed to be an act
or thing done or omitted by the organization.




(2)

If an organization commits an offence under this Act, an officer,
director, employee or agent of the organization who authorizes,
permits or acquiesces in the offence commits the same offence, whether
or not the organization is convicted of the offence.




(3)

A prosecution for an offence under this Act may be brought against an
unincorporated organization in the name of the organization and, for
the purposes of the prosecution, the unincorporated organization is
deemed to be a person.






Defence of due diligence




254


An individual or organization is not guilty of an offence under this
Act if the individual or organization exercised due diligence to
prevent the commission of the offence.






Vote buying




255

(1)


An individual or organization must not pay, give, lend or procure
inducement for any of the following purposes:




(a)

to induce an individual to vote or refrain from voting;




(b)

to induce an individual to vote or refrain from voting for or against
a particular candidate or a candidate for a particular political
party;




(c)

to reward an individual for having voted or refrained from voting as
described in paragraph (a) or (b).




(2)

An individual must not accept inducement




(a)

to vote or refrain from voting,




(b)

to vote or refrain from voting for or against a particular candidate
or a candidate for a particular political party, or




(c)

as a reward for having voted or refrained from voting as described in
paragraph (a) or (b).




(3)

An individual or organization must not advance, pay or otherwise
provide inducement, or cause inducement to be provided, knowing or
with the intent that it is to be used for any of the acts prohibited
by this section.




(4)

An individual or organization must not offer, agree or promise to do
anything otherwise prohibited by this section.




(5)

An individual or organization prohibited from doing something by this
section must not do the prohibited act directly, indirectly or by
another individual or organization on behalf of the individual or
organization who is subject to the prohibition.




(6)

During a campaign period, a candidate must not make a special
contribution or special donation for any purpose, other than a
political contribution, and an individual or organization must not
solicit such a contribution or donation from a candidate.




(7)

An individual or organization who contravenes this section commits an
offence and is liable to one or more of the following penalties:




(a)

a fine of not more than $20 000;




(b)

imprisonment for a term not longer than 2 years;




(c)

a prohibition for a period of not longer than 7 years from
holding office as a member of the Legislative Assembly;




(d)

a prohibition for a period of not longer than 7 years from voting
in an election for a member of the Legislative Assembly.






Intimidation




256

(1)


An individual or organization must not intimidate an individual for
any of the following purposes:




(a)

to persuade or compel an individual to vote or refrain from voting;




(b)

to persuade or compel an individual to vote or refrain from voting for
or against a particular candidate or a candidate for a particular
political party;




(c)

to punish an individual for having voted or refrained from voting as
described in paragraph (a) or (b).




(2)

An individual or organization must not, by abduction, duress or
fraudulent means, do any of the following:




(a)

impede, prevent or otherwise interfere with an individual's right to
vote;




(b)

compel, persuade or otherwise cause an individual to vote or refrain
from voting;




(c)

compel, persuade or otherwise cause an individual to vote or refrain
from voting for a particular candidate or for a candidate of a
particular political party.




(3)

An individual or organization prohibited from doing something by this
section must not do the prohibited act directly, indirectly or by
another individual or organization on behalf of the individual or
organization who is subject to the prohibition.




(4)

An individual or organization who contravenes this section commits an
offence and is liable to one or more of the penalties referred to in
section 255 (7).






Corrupt voting




257

(1)


An individual who does any of the following commits an offence:




(a)

votes in an election when not entitled to do so;




(b)

contravenes section 89 regarding voting more than once in an
election;




(c)

contravenes section 105 (2) by applying for more than one mail-in
voting package;




(d)

contravenes section 109 (6) by failing to mark a ballot in accordance
with the directions of the voter being assisted;




(e)

obtains a ballot in the name of another individual, whether the name
is of a living or dead individual or of a fictitious individual.




(2)

An individual who commits an offence under subsection (1) is liable to
one or more of the penalties referred to in section 255 (7).






Subversion of election by an official




258

(1)


An election official or voter registration official who contravenes
this Act, a regulation under this Act or a direction of the chief
electoral officer commits an offence if the official knew or ought to
have known that the contravention would likely affect the results or
validity of an election, whether or not it in fact has that effect.




(2)

An individual or organization must not pay, give or lend inducement
for the purpose of procuring a contravention of subsection (1).




(3)

Section 255 (3) to (5) applies in relation to the prohibition under
subsection (2) of this section.




(4)

An individual or organization who contravenes subsection (2), or
section 255 (3) to (5) as it applies under subsection (3) of this
section, commits an offence.




(5)

An individual or organization who commits an offence under this
section is liable to one or more of the penalties referred to in
section 255 (7).






Offences in relation to candidates




259

(1)


An individual or organization who does any of the following commits an
offence:




(a)

purports to withdraw a candidate from an election without authority to
do so;




(b)

publishes or causes to be published a false statement that a candidate
has withdrawn;




(c)

contravenes section 67 respecting leave from employment for a
candidate.




(2)

An individual or organization who commits an offence under subsection
(1) is liable to a fine of not more than $10 000 or imprisonment for a
term not longer than one year, or both.






Offences in relation to ballots and other election materials




260

(1)


An individual or organization who does any of the following without
authority under this Act commits an offence:




(a)

supplies a ballot to an individual or organization;




(b)

prints or reproduces a ballot or a paper that is capable of being used
as a ballot;




(c)

takes a ballot out of a place where voting proceedings are being
conducted;




(d)

puts in a ballot box, or causes to be put in a ballot box, anything
other than a ballot that an individual is authorized to deposit there;




(e)

destroys, takes, opens or otherwise interferes with a ballot paper,
ballot, certification envelope, ballot box or voting book.




(2)

An individual or organization who commits an offence under subsection
(1) is liable to a fine of not more than $10 000 or imprisonment for a
term not longer than one year, or both.






Offences in relation to voting and counting proceedings




261

(1)


An individual or organization who does any of the following commits an
offence:




(a)

contravenes section 90 (2) regarding the secrecy of the ballot;




(b)

is present at a place where voting or counting proceedings are being
conducted without being authorized under this Act to be present;




(c)

contravenes section 74 regarding granting employees time free
from work during final voting;




(d)

without authority takes down, covers up, mutilates, defaces or alters
a notice or other document authorized or required under this Act to be
posted;




(e)

without authority destroys, removes, damages or interferes with a
voting administration tool within the meaning of section 79.01 (1).




(2)

An individual or organization who commits an offence under subsection
(1) is liable to a fine of not more than $10 000 or imprisonment for a
term not longer than one year, or both.






Offences in relation to the registration of political parties and
constituency associations




262

(1)


An individual or organization who does any of the following commits an
offence:




(a)

uses, without authority, by purporting to be or be acting on behalf of
the political party, any of the forms of identification of a
registered political party filed with the chief electoral officer;




(b)

fails to file information as required by section 159;




(c)

fails to file a report in accordance with section 170 following
deregistration;




(d)

contravenes section 171 (1) respecting the funds of a political party
or constituency association that is deregistered.




(2)

An individual or organization who commits an offence under subsection
(1) is liable to a fine of not more than $10 000 or imprisonment for a
term not longer than one year, or both.






Offences in relation to election financing




263

(1)


An individual or organization who does any of the following commits an
offence:




(a)

consents to be appointed as a financial agent or auditor under this
Act when not entitled to be appointed to the position;




(b)

contravenes section 177 respecting the obligations of a financial
agent;




(c)

issues tax receipts other than in accordance with this Act and the

Income Tax Act

;




(c.1)

contravenes section 181 respecting loans and guarantees for loans;




(d)

contravenes section 186, 186.01, 187 or 188 regarding making or
accepting a political contribution;




(e)

contravenes section 189 regarding prohibited political contributions;




(f)

contravenes section 193 regarding incurring election expenses or
contestant expenses, or section 194 regarding equivalent
expenses;




(g)

contravenes section 196 by incurring an election expense in excess of
the applicable election expenses limit, unless relief from the penalty
for spending in excess of that limit has been granted by the Supreme
Court under section 219;




(h)

contravenes section 200 regarding election expenses that may be
incurred by a registered constituency association;




(i)

contravenes section 210.01 (1) regarding the disposition of the
surplus for a candidate.




(2)

An individual or organization who commits an offence under subsection
(1) is liable to a fine of not more than $10 000 or imprisonment for a
term not longer than one year, or both.






Offences in relation to election advertising and other promotion




264

(1)


An individual or organization who does any of the following commits an
offence:




(a)

contravenes section 230 respecting a restriction on election
advertising;




(b)

contravenes section 231 respecting identification of the sponsor
of election advertising;




(b.1)

contravenes section 231.01 respecting identification of the sponsor of
activities;




(c)

contravenes section 232 respecting a rate charged for campaign
period election advertising;




(d)

contravenes section 233 or 233.1 respecting campaign period
election advertising on final voting day and election opinion surveys;




(e)

contravenes section 234 respecting a restriction on activities
near an election office or voting place;




(f) and (g)

[Repealed 2002-60-10.]




(h)

contravenes section 239 respecting the requirement to be
registered as a third party sponsor;




(i)

fails to record information as required by section 241 (2);




(j)

contravenes section 235.021 respecting loans or guarantees;




(k)

contravenes section 235.04, 235.041, 235.05, 235.051, 235.06, 235.061,
235.07, 235.071 or 235.08 respecting sponsorship contributions;




(l)

contravenes section 245.01 respecting the requirement to appoint an
auditor and respecting audits of election advertising disclosure
reports.




(2)

An individual or organization who commits an offence under subsection
(1) is liable to a fine of not more than $10 000 or imprisonment for a
term not longer than one year, or both.






Offences in relation to election and other officials




265

(1)


An individual who does any of the following commits an offence:




(a)

purports to be an election official if the individual is not an
election official;




(b)

purports to be a voter registration official if the individual is not
a voter registration official;




(c)

accepts appointment or acts as an election official when not
qualified;




(d)

contravenes section 18 (8) regarding the impartiality of a district
electoral officer or deputy district electoral officer;




(e)

impedes or obstructs an election official, a voter registration
official or other individual in performing duties and exercising
powers given to the individual under this Act.




(2)

An individual who commits an offence under subsection (1) is liable to
a fine of not more than $10 000 or imprisonment for a term not longer
than one year, or both.






Offences in relation to false or misleading information




266

(1)


An individual or organization who does any of the following commits an
offence:




(a)

provides false or misleading information when required or authorized
under this Act to provide information;




(b)

makes a false or misleading statement or declaration when required
under this Act to make a statement or declaration.




(2)

In the case of false or misleading information in a report under
Part 10, the political party, constituency association, candidate
or leadership contestant on whose behalf the report is filed commits
an offence.




(3)

An individual or organization is not guilty of an offence under this
section if, at the time the information was given or the statement or
declaration was made, the individual or organization did not know that
it was false or misleading and, with the exercise of reasonable
diligence, could not have known that it was false or misleading.




(4)

An individual or organization who commits an offence under this
section is liable to a fine of not more than $20 000 or imprisonment
for a term not longer than 2 years, or both.






Offences in relation to false statements and unauthorized material or
information




266.1

(1)


An individual or organization that does any of the following commits
an offence:




(a)

transmits a statement in contravention of section 234.1;




(b)

transmits a statement in contravention of section 234.2;




(c)

transmits material or information in contravention of
section 234.3;




(d)

transmits material or information in contravention of
section 234.4.




(2)

An individual or organization that commits an offence under this
section is liable to a fine of not more than $20 000 or
imprisonment for a term not longer than 2 years, or both.






Offences in relation to misrepresentation




266.2


An individual or organization that contravenes section 234.5
commits an offence and is liable to a fine of not more than
$20 000 or imprisonment for a term not longer than 2 years,
or both.






Offence in relation to use of information




267

(1)


An individual or organization who uses personal information referred
to in section 275 except as authorized by that section commits an
offence.




(2)

An individual or organization who commits an offence under this
section is liable to a fine of not more than $20 000 or
imprisonment for a term not longer than 2 years, or both.




Contents
|


Part 1
|


Part 2
|


Part 3
|


Part 4
|


Part 5
|


Part 6
|


Part 7
|


Part 8
|


Part 9
|


Part 10
|



Part 10.1

|


Part 11
|

Part 12 |

Part 13
|


Schedule




