





View Complete Statute



Election Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 106



Part 10.1 — Election Communications





Repealed




228


[Repealed 2017-20-29.]






Canvassing in housing cooperative, strata and rental properties




228.01

(1)


In this section:



"authorized canvasser"

means an individual authorized in writing by a candidate to canvass
voters and distribute candidate information on the candidate's behalf;



"candidate information"

means printed information about




(a)

a candidate, and




(b)

if applicable, the registered political party represented by the
candidate.




(2)

The following individuals and organizations must not unreasonably
restrict access to residential property by a candidate or an
authorized canvasser for the purposes of canvassing voters and
distributing candidate information:




(a)

a housing cooperative or individual acting on behalf of a housing
cooperative;




(b)

a landlord or individual acting on behalf of a landlord;




(c)

a strata corporation or individual acting on behalf of a strata
corporation.




(3)

While canvassing voters or distributing candidate information at a
residential property, access to which is controlled by any of the
individuals or organizations referred to in subsection (2), a
candidate or authorized canvasser must produce government-issued photo
identification and either proof of candidacy or a candidate's written
authorization to canvass voters and distribute candidate information,
as applicable, at the request of any of the following individuals:




(a)

a resident of the property;




(b)

an individual referred to in subsection (2) (a), (b) or (c).




(4)

Subsection (2) applies from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. during the campaign
period.






Tenant and strata election advertising




228.1

(1)


A landlord or person acting on a landlord's behalf must not prohibit a
tenant from displaying election advertising posters on the premises to
which the tenant's tenancy agreement relates.




(2)

A strata corporation or a person acting on behalf of a strata
corporation must not prohibit the owner or tenant of a strata unit
from displaying election advertising posters on the premises of the
owner's or tenant's unit.




(3)

Despite subsections (1) and (2), a landlord, a strata corporation or a
person acting on behalf of a landlord or strata corporation may




(a)

set reasonable conditions relating to the size or type of election
advertising posters that may be displayed on the premises, and




(b)

prohibit the display of election advertising posters in common areas
of the building in which the premises are found.






Sponsorship of election advertising




229

(1)


For the purposes of this Part and Part 11, the sponsor of election
advertising is whichever of the following is applicable:




(a)

the individual or organization who pays for the election advertising
to be conducted;




(b)

if the services of conducting the advertising are provided without
charge as a contribution, the individual or organization to whom the
services are provided as a contribution;




(c)

if the individual or organization that is the sponsor within the
meaning of paragraph (a) or (b) is acting on behalf of another
individual or organization, the other individual or organization.




(2)

Where this Part and Part 11 requires the inclusion of a mailing
address or telephone number at which a sponsor can be contacted,




(a)

any mailing address given must be within British Columbia,




(b)

any telephone number given must be that of a place within British
Columbia, and




(c)

the sponsor must make available an individual to be responsible for
answering questions from the public that are directed to the address
or telephone number.




(3)

Where this Part and Part 11 requires a sponsor to be identified, for a
numbered corporation or an unincorporated organization the
identification must include both




(a)

the name of the organization, and




(b)

the name of an individual director or, if there are no individual
directors, an individual who is a principal officer or a principal
member of the organization.




(4)

On request of the chief electoral officer,




(a)

an individual identified as a sponsor, or




(b)

an individual identified as a director, principal officer or principal
member of an organization identified as a sponsor


must file with the chief electoral officer a solemn declaration that
the identified sponsor is in fact the sponsor and that the sponsor has
not contravened this Part and Part 11.






No indirect sponsorship of election advertising




230


An individual or organization must not sponsor election advertising
with the property of any other individual or organization or
indirectly through any other individual or organization.






Election advertising must identify sponsor




231

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), an individual or organization must not
sponsor, or publish, broadcast or transmit to the public, any election
advertising unless the advertising




(a)

identifies the name of the sponsor or, in the case of a candidate, the
name of the candidate's financial agent or the financial agent of the
registered political party represented by the candidate,




(b)

if applicable, indicates that the sponsor is a registered third party
sponsor under this Act,




(c)

indicates that it was authorized by the identified sponsor or
financial agent,




(d)

specifies a means of contacting the sponsor or financial agent, such
as a telephone number, mailing address or email address, or other
means prescribed by the chief electoral officer by regulation, and




(e)

meets any form and content requirements established by the chief
electoral officer by regulation.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply to any class of election advertising
exempted under section 283.




(3)

The chief electoral officer, or a person acting on the direction of
the chief electoral officer, may




(a)

remove and destroy, without notice to any person, or




(b)

require a person to remove or discontinue, and destroy,


any election advertising that does not meet the requirements of
subsection (1) and is not exempted under subsection (2).






Identification of sponsor — activities




231.01

(1)


With respect to an activity described in section 1 (3) (a), the person
canvassing a voter must provide to the voter the information described
in section 231 (1) (a) to (c).




(2)

With respect to an activity described in section 1 (3) (b), the
material must include the information described in
section 231 (1) (a) to (e).




(3)

The chief electoral officer, or a person acting on the direction of
the chief electoral officer, may require a person to discontinue any
activity referred to in subsections (1) and (2) of this section that
does not meet the requirements described in those subsections.






Monetary penalties for failure to identify sponsor




231.02

(1)


Within 7 days of the chief electoral officer making a determination of
non-compliance with section 231 or 231.01 by a person, the chief
electoral officer must notify the person of the non-compliance and the
related penalty.




(2)

Unless relief is granted by a court on an application under this
section, if the chief electoral officer gives notice under subsection
(1) of this section, the person must pay to the chief electoral
officer a penalty in the amount of up to $10 000, as determined by the
chief electoral officer.




(3)

A person who is subject to a monetary penalty under this section may
apply to the Supreme Court in accordance with this section for relief
from the monetary penalty for non-compliance.




(4)

An application may be made only within 30 days after the chief
electoral officer, under subsection (1), notifies the person of the
non-compliance and the related penalty.




(5)

The petition commencing an application must be served on the chief
electoral officer within 7 days after the petition is filed and the
chief electoral officer is a party to the application.




(6)

On the hearing of an application, the court may do the following:




(a)

grant relief from a penalty if the court considers that, in relation
to the non-compliance, the person has acted in good faith;




(b)

make any order the court considers appropriate to secure compliance
with section 231 or 231.01 to the extent the court considers
reasonable in the circumstances;




(c)

refuse to grant relief.






Notice to stop transmitting




231.03

(1)


For the purposes of this section,




(a)

in relation to an election, election advertising includes the
transmission to the public, during a pre-campaign period or an
election period, of advertising messages that would be considered
campaign period election advertising if the advertising messages had
been transmitted during a campaign period, and




(b)

transmitting election advertising or other information to the public
includes sponsoring or otherwise arranging for an individual or
organization to transmit, by any means, the election advertising or
information to the public.




(2)

In the circumstances described in subsection (3), the chief electoral
officer may give a written notice to an individual or organization
requiring the individual or organization to take the measures
necessary to




(a)

stop the transmission of the election advertising or other information
to the public, and




(b)

remove, discontinue and, if applicable, destroy the election
advertising or information.




(3)

For the purposes of subsection (2), the circumstances are as follows:




(a)

if the chief electoral officer has reason to believe that an
individual or organization is, during a pre-campaign period or a
campaign period, transmitting to the public by any means election
advertising or other information that does not comply with
section 234.1 or 234.3;




(b)

if the chief electoral officer has reason to believe that an
individual or organization is, during a pre-campaign period or an
election period, transmitting to the public by any means election
advertising or other information that does not comply with
section 234.2, 234.4 or 234.5 or any other provision of this Act.




(4)

The notice referred to in subsection (2) that is given in
circumstances described in subsection (3) must




(a)

describe the election advertising or other information that the chief
electoral officer has reason to believe is not in compliance with this
Act,




(b)

identify the provisions of this Act that the chief electoral officer
has reason to believe the election advertising or other information is
not in compliance with,




(c)

advise the recipient that a monetary penalty may be imposed by the
chief electoral officer if the election advertising or other
information continues to be transmitted to the public by the
recipient,




(d)

advise the recipient of the period set out in subsection (5) within
which the recipient must comply with the notice, and




(e)

advise the recipient of the ability to make a request under subsection
(6) for an extension of the period set out in subsection (5).




(5)

The recipient of a notice referred to in subsection (2) must comply
with the notice as soon as reasonably possible but, in any event, no
later than 24 hours after receiving the notice.




(6)

The chief electoral officer may extend the period referred to in
subsection (5) if the recipient of the notice referred to in
subsection (2) makes a written request for an extension within 12
hours after receiving the notice.




(7)

Within 7 days of the chief electoral officer making a determination of
non-compliance with a notice given under subsection (2) by an
individual or organization, the chief electoral officer must give
written notice to the individual or organization of the non-compliance
and the amount of the monetary penalty, calculated in accordance with
subsection (8), payable to the chief electoral officer on receipt
of the notice given under this subsection.




(8)

Unless relief is granted under subsection (15), if the chief electoral
officer gives notice to an individual or organization under
subsection (7), the individual or organization must pay to the
chief electoral officer a penalty in the amount of up to $50 000,
as determined by the chief electoral officer, for each day that the
individual or organization fails to comply with a notice given under
subsection (2).




(9)

If, after receiving a notice under subsection (7), an individual or
organization continues to fail to comply with the applicable notice
given under subsection (2), the individual or organization is subject
to additional monetary penalties calculated in accordance with
subsection (8).




(10)

If an individual or organization is subject to additional monetary
penalties under subsection (9), the chief electoral officer must
give written notice to the individual or organization of the amount
that is payable to the chief electoral officer in respect of those
additional monetary penalties.




(11)

An individual or organization that is subject to a monetary penalty
under this section may apply to the Supreme Court in accordance with
this section for relief from the monetary penalty for non-compliance.




(12)

An application may be made only within 30 days after the chief
electoral officer, under subsection (7) or (10), notifies the
individual or organization of the non-compliance and the related
penalty.




(13)

A petition commencing an application must be served on the chief
electoral officer within 7 days after the petition is filed with
the Supreme Court, and the chief electoral officer is a party to the
application.




(14)

If an application is made for relief from a monetary penalty imposed
under this section, and additional monetary penalties have been
imposed under this section in relation to the transmission of the same
election advertising or other information by the same individual or
organization, the court may extend the scope of the application to
include all of the monetary penalties.




(15)

On the hearing of an application, the court may do the following:




(a)

grant relief from a penalty if the court considers that, in relation
to the non-compliance, the individual or organization has acted in
good faith;




(b)

make any order the court considers appropriate to secure compliance
with this section to the extent the court considers reasonable in the
circumstances;




(c)

refuse to grant relief.






Restriction on rates charged for campaign period election advertising




232


An individual or organization must not charge a registered political
party, registered constituency association or candidate a rate for
campaign period election advertising in a periodical publication or on
radio or television that exceeds the lowest rate charged by the
individual or organization for equivalent advertising in the same
medium during the same campaign period.






Prohibition against certain campaign period election advertising on
final voting day




233

(1)


An individual or organization must not publish, broadcast or transmit
to the public campaign period election advertising in an electoral
district on final voting day before the close of all of the voting
stations in the electoral district.




(2)

An individual or organization must not sponsor or agree to sponsor in
an electoral district campaign period election advertising that is or
is to be published, broadcasted or transmitted to the public on final
voting day before the close of all of the voting stations in the
electoral district, whether the publication, broadcast or transmission
is within British Columbia or outside British Columbia.




(3)

Subject to section 234 (2) (a), subsections (1) and (2) do not apply
in respect of any of the following:




(a)

a notice of an event that the leader of a registered political party
intends to attend or an invitation to meet or hear the leader of a
registered political party;




(b)

a message that was transmitted to the public on the internet before
final voting day and that was not changed before the close of all of
the voting stations in the electoral district;




(c)

the distribution on final voting day of pamphlets or the posting of
messages on signs, posters or banners;




(d)

a message that was transmitted to the public on the internet for the
sole purpose of encouraging voters to vote in the election.






Prohibition against transmitting new poll results on final voting day




233.1

(1)


[Repealed 2017-20-35.]




(2)

An individual or organization must not publish, broadcast or transmit
to the public, in an electoral district on final voting day before the
close of all of the voting stations in the electoral district, the
results of an election opinion survey that have not previously been
made available to the public.






Restriction on election campaigning near election offices and voting
places




234

(1)


During a campaign period, an individual or organization must not post,
display or disseminate in or within 100 metres of the
building where the office of the district electoral officer is located




(a)

campaign period election advertising, or




(b)

any material that identifies a candidate, registered political party
or registered constituency association, unless this is done with the
authorization of the district electoral officer.




(2)

While advance voting or final voting is being conducted at a voting
place, an individual or organization must not do any of the following
in or within 100 metres of the building where the voting is being
conducted:




(a)

post, display or disseminate




(i)

campaign period election advertising, or




(ii)

any material that identifies a candidate, registered political party
or registered constituency association, unless this is done with the
authorization of the district electoral officer;




(b)

canvass or solicit votes or otherwise attempt to influence how a voter
votes;




(c)

carry, wear or supply a flag, badge or other thing indicating that the
individual using it is a supporter of a particular candidate or
registered political party;




(d)

post, display, disseminate or openly leave a representation of a
ballot marked for a particular candidate or registered political
party.




(3)

If subsection (1) or (2) is being contravened by the posting or
display of materials, the district electoral officer or another
election official authorized by the district electoral officer may
enter on the property where the materials are located and remove or
cover or otherwise obscure them from view.




(4)

While advance voting or final voting is being conducted at a voting
place, an individual or organization must not publish, broadcast or
transmit to the public campaign period election advertising by means
of a public address system or loudspeaker that is within hearing
distance of the voting place.






Transmission of false statement to affect election results




234.1


During a pre-campaign period or a campaign period, an individual or
organization must not, with the intention of affecting the result of
an election, transmit by any means a statement knowing that it is
false, or having a reckless disregard as to whether it is false,




(a)

that a candidate, a nomination contestant, the leader of a registered
political party or a public figure associated with a candidate or a
registered political party has committed or been charged with an
offence, or has been required to pay an administrative monetary
penalty, under an Act of Parliament, a regulation made under an Act of
Parliament or an enactment of British Columbia or another province, or




(b)

that relates to the citizenship, place of birth, education,
professional qualifications or membership, in a group or association,
of a candidate, a nomination contestant, the leader of a registered
political party or a public figure associated with a registered
political party.






Transmission of false statement about election official and voting
administration tools




234.2


During a pre-campaign period or an election period, an individual or
organization must not, with the intention of undermining public
confidence in the result or the administration of an election,
transmit by any means a statement knowing that it is false, or having
a reckless disregard as to whether it is false,




(a)

that an election official has committed or been charged with an
offence, or has been required to pay an administrative monetary
penalty, under an Act of Parliament, a regulation made under an Act of
Parliament or an enactment of British Columbia or another province,




(b)

that relates to the citizenship, place of birth, education,
professional qualifications or membership, in a group or association,
of an election official, or




(c)

that relates to an individual or organization that provides, to
Elections BC, voting administration tools within the meaning of
section 79.01 or services in relation to voting administration
tools.






Transmission of false election information




234.3


During a pre-campaign period or a campaign period, an individual or
organization must not, with the intention of affecting the results of
an election, transmit by any means any material or information,
regardless of its form, that provides false or misleading information
about voter eligibility, voter registration procedures or election
proceedings, including voting options and voting opportunities
available to the voter.






Transmission of unauthorized material or information




234.4

(1)


During a pre-campaign period or an election period, an individual or
organization must not transmit by any means any material or
information, regardless of its form, that purports to be transmitted
by or under the authority of the chief electoral officer, an election
official, a candidate, a nomination contestant, a registered political
party or a registered constituency association if




(a)

the individual or organization is not authorized by the chief
electoral officer or that election official, candidate, nomination
contestant, registered political party or registered constituency
association to transmit the material or information, and




(b)

the individual or organization intends to mislead the public that the
material or information was transmitted by or under the authority of
the chief electoral officer or that election official, candidate,
nomination contestant, registered political party or registered
constituency association.




(2)

In determining whether an individual or organization has complied with
subsection (1), consideration may be given to whether the
material or information included the use of




(a)

a name, logo, likeness of a logo, social media account identifier,
user name or domain name that is distinctive and commonly associated
with Elections BC, the chief electoral officer, an election official,
a candidate, a nomination contestant, a registered political party or
a registered constituency association,




(b)

the name, voice, image, likeness, physical description or signature of
the chief electoral officer, an election official, a candidate, a
nomination contestant or a public figure who is associated with a
candidate or a registered political party, or




(c)

any other matter or thing prescribed by regulation.




(3)

An individual or organization does not fail to comply with subsection
(1) if the individual or organization establishes that the material or
information was transmitted for the purpose of parody or satire.






Misrepresentation




234.5

(1)


An individual or an organization must not, in relation to an election,
falsely purport to be




(a)

a candidate or an individual authorized to act on behalf of a
candidate,




(b)

an individual authorized to act on behalf of a registered political
party or a registered constituency association, or




(c)

a registered political party or a registered constituency association.




(2)

An individual or organization does not fail to comply with
subsection (1) if the individual or organization establishes that
the representation was for the purpose of parody or satire.






Penalties for certain false statements and misrepresentation




234.6

(1)


Within 7 days of the chief electoral officer making a determination of
non-compliance with any of sections 234.1 to 234.5 by an
individual or organization, the chief electoral officer must notify
the individual or organization of the non-compliance and the related
penalty.




(2)

Unless relief is granted by a court on an application under this
section, if the chief electoral officer gives notice under
subsection (1), the individual or organization must pay to the
chief electoral officer a penalty in the amount of up to $20 000,
as determined by the chief electoral officer.




(3)

An individual or organization that is subject to a monetary penalty
under this section may apply to the Supreme Court in accordance with
this section for relief from the monetary penalty for non-compliance
with the applicable section.




(4)

An application under this section may be made only within 30 days
after the chief electoral officer, under subsection (1), notifies
the individual or organization of the non-compliance and the related
penalty.




(5)

The petition commencing an application under subsection (3) must be
served on the chief electoral officer within 7 days after the
petition is filed with the Supreme Court, and the chief electoral
officer is a party to the application.




(6)

On the hearing of an application, the court may do the following:




(a)

grant relief from a penalty if the court considers that, in relation
to the non-compliance, the individual or organization has acted in
good faith;




(b)

make any order the court considers appropriate to secure compliance
with sections 234.1 to 234.5, as applicable, to the extent the
court considers reasonable in the circumstances;




(c)

refuse to grant relief.






Publication of names in relation to monetary penalties




234.7

(1)


The chief electoral officer must




(a)

publish on an Elections BC authorized internet site




(i)

the names of the individuals and organizations on whom the chief
electoral officer has imposed a monetary penalty under
section 231.02, 231.03 or 234.6,




(ii)

the section under which the chief electoral officer has imposed the
monetary penalty, and




(iii)

the amount of the monetary penalty, and




(b)

have notice of the information described in paragraph (a) published in
the Gazette.




(2)

The information published under subsection (1) (a) must continue to be
published on the Elections BC authorized internet site until one year
after final voting day for the next general election.




(3)

Publication of the notice under subsection (1) (b) must take place as
soon as possible after the chief electoral officer imposes the
monetary penalty.






Repealed




235


[Repealed 2002-60-7.]




Contents
|


Part 1
|


Part 2
|


Part 3
|


Part 4
|


Part 5
|


Part 6
|


Part 7
|


Part 8
|


Part 9
|


Part 10
|

Part 10.1 |

Part 11
|


Part 12
|


Part 13
|


Schedule




