





View Complete Statute



Recall and Initiative Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 398



Part 8 — Recall Petition Communications



Division 1 — General





Repealed




134


[Repealed 2018-41-25.]






Contributions to recall advertising sponsors




134.01

(1)


In this Part,
"recall advertising sponsor"
means the following:




(a)

an individual or organization that sponsors petition period recall
advertising in respect of a recall petition, other than an authorized
participant for the recall petition;




(b)

an individual or organization that sponsors non-petition period recall
advertising.




(2)

Subject to this Part, a contribution, in relation to recall
advertising, is an amount of money or the value of any property or
services provided without compensation by way of donation, advance,
deposit, discount or otherwise to a recall advertising sponsor,
whether provided before or after the recall advertising sponsor
sponsors recall advertising.






Sponsorship of recall advertising




135

(1)


For the purposes of this Part, the sponsor of recall advertising is
whichever of the following is applicable:




(a)

the individual or organization who pays for the recall advertising to
be conducted;




(b)

if the services of conducting the advertising are provided without
charge as a contribution, the individual or organization to whom the
services are provided as a contribution;




(c)

if the individual or organization who is the sponsor within the
meaning of paragraph (a) or (b) is acting on behalf of another
individual or organization, the other individual or organization.




(2)

Where this Part requires the inclusion of a mailing address or
telephone number at which a recall advertising sponsor can be
contacted,




(a)

any mailing address given must be within British Columbia,




(b)

any telephone number given must be that of a place within British
Columbia, and




(c)

the recall advertising sponsor must make available an individual to be
responsible for answering questions from the public that are directed
to the address or telephone number.




(3)

Where this Part requires a recall advertising sponsor to be
identified, for a numbered corporation or an unincorporated
organization the identification must include both




(a)

the name of the organization, and




(b)

the name of an individual director or, if there are no individual
directors, an individual who is a principal officer or principal
member of the organization.




(4)

On request of the chief electoral officer,




(a)

an individual identified as a recall advertising sponsor, or




(b)

an individual identified as a director, principal officer or principal
member of an organization identified as a recall advertising sponsor


must file with the chief electoral officer a solemn declaration that
the identified recall advertising sponsor is in fact the recall
advertising sponsor and that the recall advertising sponsor has not
contravened this Part.






No indirect sponsorship of recall advertising




136


An individual or organization must not sponsor recall advertising with
the property of any other individual or organization or indirectly
through any other individual or organization.






Recall advertising must identify sponsor




137

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), an individual or organization must not
sponsor, or publish, broadcast or transmit to the public, any recall
advertising unless the advertising




(a)

identifies the name of the recall advertising sponsor or, in the case
of an authorized participant, the name of the financial agent,




(b)

if applicable, indicates that the sponsor is a registered recall
advertising sponsor under this Act,




(c)

indicates that it was authorized by the identified recall advertising
sponsor or financial agent, and




(d)

gives a telephone number or mailing address at which the recall
advertising sponsor or financial agent may be contacted regarding the
advertising.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply to any class of recall advertising
exempted under section 171.




(3)

The chief electoral officer, or a person acting on the direction of
the chief electoral officer, may




(a)

remove and destroy, without notice to any person, or




(b)

require a person to remove or discontinue, and destroy,


any recall advertising that does not meet the requirements of
subsection (1) and is not exempted under subsection (2).






Identification of sponsor — activities




137.01

(1)


With respect to an activity described in section 1 (4) (a), the person
canvassing a voter must provide to the voter the information described
in section 137 (1) (a) to (c).




(2)

With respect to an activity described in section 1 (4) (b), the
material must include the information described in section 137 (1) (a)
to (d).




(3)

The chief electoral officer, or a person acting on the direction of
the chief electoral officer, may require a person to discontinue any
activity referred to in subsections (1) and (2) of this section that
does not meet the requirements described in those subsections.






Monetary penalties for failure to identify sponsor




137.02

(1)


Within 7 days of the chief electoral officer making a determination of
non-compliance with section 137 or 137.01 by a person, the chief
electoral officer must notify the person of the non-compliance and the
related penalty.




(2)

Unless relief is granted by a court on an application under this
section, if the chief electoral officer gives notice under subsection
(1) of this section, the person must pay to the chief electoral
officer a penalty in the amount of up to $10 000, as determined by the
chief electoral officer.




(3)

A person who is subject to a monetary penalty under this section may
apply to the Supreme Court in accordance with this section for relief
from the monetary penalty for non-compliance.




(4)

An application may be made only within 30 days after the chief
electoral officer, under subsection (1), notifies the person of the
non-compliance and the related penalty.




(5)

The petition commencing an application must be served on the chief
electoral officer within 7 days after the petition is filed and the
chief electoral officer is a party to the application.




(6)

On the hearing of an application, the court may do the following:




(a)

grant relief from a penalty if the court considers that, in relation
to the non-compliance, the person has acted in good faith;




(b)

make any order the court considers appropriate to secure compliance
with section 137 or 137.01 to the extent the court considers
reasonable in the circumstances;




(c)

refuse to grant relief.






Restriction on rates charged for recall advertising




138


An individual or organization must not charge a rate for recall
advertising in a periodical publication or on radio or television that
exceeds the lowest rate charged by the individual or organization for
equivalent advertising in the same medium during the same recall
petition period.






Repealed




139


[Repealed 2002-60-18.]




Division 2





Repealed




140-142


[Repealed 2002-60-19.]




Division 3 — Registration of Recall Advertising Sponsors





Recall advertising sponsors must be registered




143

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), an individual or organization who is not
registered under this Division must not sponsor recall advertising.




(1.01)

An individual or organization must not sponsor recall advertising in
relation to an electoral district unless the individual or
organization is registered as a recall advertising sponsor in relation
to that electoral district.




(1.02)

An individual or organization must not sponsor petition period recall
advertising in relation to a recall petition unless the individual or
organization is registered as a recall advertising sponsor in relation
to that recall petition.




(2)

An authorized participant is not required to be registered to sponsor
petition period recall advertising in relation to a recall petition
for which the individual is an authorized participant.






Independence from authorized participants




143.01

(1)


A recall advertising sponsor who sponsors petition period recall
advertising in relation to a recall petition must be independent of
the authorized participants in respect of the petition and must not
sponsor recall advertising on behalf of or together with either of
them.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply to




(a)

the political party that the Member who is the subject of the petition
represents, or




(b)

a constituency association for the electoral district of that Member
that




(i)

is the local organization for the political party that the Member
represents, or




(ii)

supports the Member as an independent Member.






Registration with chief electoral officer




144

(1)


An individual or organization who wishes to register as a recall
advertising sponsor in relation to an electoral district must file an
application in accordance with this section with the chief electoral
officer.




(2)

An application must include the following:




(a)

the full name of the applicant and, in the case of an applicant
organization that has a different usual name, this usual name;




(b)

the full address of the applicant;




(c)

in the case of an applicant organization, the names of the principal
officers of the organization or, if there are no principal officers,
of the principal members of the organization;




(d)

an address at which notices and communications under this Act and
other communications will be accepted as served on or otherwise
delivered to the individual or organization;




(e)

a telephone number at which the applicant can be contacted;




(e.1)

identification of the electoral district or electoral districts in
relation to which the applicant wishes to be registered as a recall
advertising sponsor;




(f)

if the individual or organization wishes to sponsor petition period
recall advertising, identification of the recall petition in relation
to which the applicant wishes to be registered as a recall advertising
sponsor;




(g)

any other information required by regulation to be included.




(3)

An application must




(a)

be signed, as applicable, by the individual applicant or, in the case
of an applicant organization, by 2 principal officers of the
organization or, if there are no principal officers, by 2 principal
members of the organization, and




(b)

be accompanied by a signed statement of an individual who signed the
application under paragraph (a) that the applicant




(i)

is not prohibited from being registered by section 146, and




(ii)

does not intend to sponsor recall advertising for any purpose related
to circumventing the provisions of this Act limiting the value of
recall expenses that may be incurred by an authorized participant.




(4)

The chief electoral officer may require applications to be in a
specified form.




(5)

As soon as practicable after receiving an application, if satisfied
that the requirements of this section are met by an applicant, the
chief electoral officer must register the applicant as a recall
advertising sponsor in relation to the electoral district or electoral
districts identified under subsection (2) (e.1) in the register
maintained by the chief electoral officer for this purpose.




(6)

If there is any change in the information referred to in subsection
(2) for a registered recall advertising sponsor, the recall
advertising sponsor must file with the chief electoral officer written
notice of the change within 15 days after it occurs.




(7)

A notice or other communication that is required or authorized under
this Act to be given to a recall advertising sponsor is deemed to have
been given if it is delivered to the applicable address filed under
this section with the chief electoral officer.




(8)

As soon as practicable after the registration of a recall advertising
sponsor, the chief electoral officer must advise the recall
advertising sponsor of the current applicable amount under section
146.10.






Obligations of recall advertising sponsor




145

(1)


The identification of a recall advertising sponsor referred to in
section 137 must be a name filed by the recall advertising
sponsor under section 144 with the chief electoral officer.




(2)

A recall advertising sponsor must maintain records of the following
information in respect of contributions received by the recall
advertising sponsor:




(a)

in the case of anonymous contributions, the date on which the
contributions were received, the total amount received on each date
and, if applicable, the event at which they were received;




(b)

in other cases, the information referred to in section 120 (1) (a) to
(c) and the written contributor confirmations and contributor consents
obtained under section 146.08 (3).






Limit on registration




146


An individual or organization who is subject to a penalty under this
Part or for whom a required report under this Part is not filed is not
entitled to be registered as a recall advertising sponsor until all
such outstanding reports are filed and all such outstanding penalties
are paid.






Voluntary deregistration




146.01

(1)


A registered recall advertising sponsor may apply to the chief
electoral officer for deregistration in accordance with this section.




(2)

As an exception, a recall advertising sponsor may not apply for
deregistration under this section if the recall advertising sponsor is
subject to deregistration under this Part or has not yet paid a
penalty under this Part.




(3)

An application for deregistration must be in writing and must be
signed, as applicable,




(a)

by the individual applicant, or




(b)

in the case of an applicant organization, by 2 principal officers of
the organization or, if there are no principal officers, by 2
principal members of the organization.




(4)

On being satisfied that an application for deregistration is
authorized by the recall advertising sponsor, the chief electoral
officer must deregister the recall advertising sponsor.




(5)

As a limit on subsection (4), if outside of a recall petition period a
registered recall advertising sponsor has sponsored non-petition
period recall advertising or if during a recall petition period a
registered recall advertising sponsor has sponsored petition period
recall advertising, the recall advertising sponsor must not be
deregistered until the recall advertising disclosure report for the
recall advertising sponsor has been filed.






Deregistration on becoming authorized participant




146.02


A registered recall advertising sponsor is deregistered in relation to
an electoral district on the date that the sponsor becomes an
authorized participant for a recall petition that is to be issued for
the recall of the Member for that electoral district under section 107
(1).






Reregistration




146.03


In order to be reregistered, an individual or organization must file
any outstanding reports and pay any outstanding penalties under this
Part.




Division 3.1 — Sponsorship Contributions





Sponsorship contributions




146.04

(1)


Subject to this section and sections 146.05 to 146.07, a sponsorship
contribution is a contribution, in relation to which the contributor
has provided a contributor confirmation and contributor consent, that
is provided to a recall advertising sponsor, whether provided before
or after the recall advertising sponsor sponsors recall advertising.




(2)

If property or services are




(a)

provided to a recall advertising sponsor at less than market value, or




(b)

acquired from a recall advertising sponsor at greater than market
value,


the difference between the market value of the property or services at
the time provided and the amount charged is a sponsorship
contribution.




(3)

The value of the following is not a sponsorship contribution:




(a)

services provided by a volunteer;




(b)

property of a volunteer if it is provided or used in relation to the
services of the individual as a volunteer;




(c)

publishing without charge news, an editorial, an interview, a column,
a letter or a commentary in a bona fide periodical publication or a
radio or television program;




(d)

broadcasting time provided, without charge, as part of a bona fide
public affairs program;




(e)

producing, promoting or distributing a publication for no less than
its market value, if the publication was planned to be sold regardless
of the recall petition.






Loans and guarantees to recall advertising sponsors




146.05

(1)


This section applies to recall advertising sponsors that are required
to file disclosure reports under section 146.19, 147 or 148.01.




(2)

A permissible loan, or a guarantee for a permissible loan, to a recall
advertising sponsor is not a sponsorship contribution.




(3)

A permissible loan, or a guarantee for a permissible loan, to a recall
advertising sponsor must be made only by a savings institution.




(4)

A recall advertising sponsor must not accept a loan other than a
permissible loan.




(5)

A savings institution must not make to a recall advertising sponsor a
loan other than a permissible loan.




(6)

A recall advertising sponsor must not accept a guarantee for a
permissible loan unless the guarantee is provided with
non-preferential treatment.




(7)

A savings institution must not make or accept a guarantee for a
permissible loan to a recall advertising sponsor unless the guarantee
is provided with non-preferential treatment.




(8)

Despite subsection (2), a permissible loan to a recall advertising
sponsor is a sponsorship contribution if a savings institution does
not make commercially reasonable efforts to collect or enforce the
loan.






Debts




146.06

(1)


In this section,
"debt"
means a debt, other than a debt arising from a permissible loan, that
is owed by a recall advertising sponsor in relation to sponsoring
recall advertising.




(2)

A debt is a sponsorship contribution if




(a)

the debt remains unpaid 6 months after becoming due and payable, and




(b)

the creditor does not make commercially reasonable efforts to collect
or recover the debt.




(3)

For certainty, nothing in this section affects the rights of a
creditor in relation to a debt that becomes a sponsorship contribution
under this section.






Sponsorship contributions through fundraising functions




146.07

(1)


A charge per individual for a fundraising function held by or on
behalf of a recall advertising sponsor is a sponsorship contribution
if the recall advertising sponsor obtains a contributor confirmation
and contributor consent for that amount.




(2)

If the amount paid for property or services offered for sale at a
fundraising function held by or on behalf of a recall advertising
sponsor is greater than the market value of the property or services,
the difference between the amount paid and the market value at the
time the amount is agreed to be paid is a sponsorship contribution if
the recall advertising sponsor obtains a contributor confirmation and
contributor consent for that amount.




(3)

The value of property or services, or both, donated by an individual
for sale at a fundraising function held by or on behalf of a recall
advertising sponsor is a sponsorship contribution if the recall
advertising sponsor obtains a contributor confirmation and contributor
consent for that donation unless the property or services are used for
sale at the fundraising function.






Making and using sponsorship contributions




146.08

(1)


A person must not make a sponsorship contribution unless the person is
an eligible individual.




(2)

A recall advertising sponsor must not use a contribution that is not a
sponsorship contribution to sponsor recall advertising.




(3)

Before a recall advertising sponsor may use a contribution to sponsor
recall advertising, the recall advertising sponsor must obtain from
the contributor the following in writing:




(a)

a confirmation from the contributor that the contributor is an
eligible individual;




(b)

consent from the contributor that the recall advertising sponsor may
use all or part of the contribution to sponsor recall advertising in
one or more identified electoral districts.




(4)

If a contributor does not provide a contributor confirmation and
contributor consent, the contribution is not a sponsorship
contribution.




(5)

A recall advertising sponsor must not use a sponsorship contribution
to sponsor recall advertising in an electoral district not identified
by the contributor under subsection (3) (b).






Contributor confirmation and consent in relation to sponsorship
contributions




146.09

(1)


A contributor may provide a contributor confirmation and contributor
consent




(a)

at the time the contributor makes a contribution, or




(b)

after the date the contributor makes a contribution but before the
earlier of the following:




(i)

the date that is 24 months after the date the contributor made the
contribution;




(ii)

the date the recall advertising sponsor uses the contribution.




(2)

A recall advertising sponsor




(a)

may request the contributor to provide a contributor confirmation and
contributor consent, and




(b)

must, when making that request, advise the contributor whether the
contributor has previously provided a contributor consent for one or
more contributions in the applicable calendar year, and, if so, the
amount of those contributions.




(3)

A recall advertising sponsor that does not obtain a contributor
confirmation and contributor consent must not use any part of the
contribution to sponsor recall advertising.






Sponsorship contribution limits




146.10

(1)


An eligible individual must not, in a calendar year, make sponsorship
contributions that have a total value greater than the amount that is
applicable for the year under section 235.05 (4) or (5) of the

Election Act

to any one recall advertising sponsor.




(2)

For certainty, subsection (1) applies even if the recall advertising
sponsor is registered as a recall advertising sponsor in relation to
more than one electoral district.




(3)

A recall advertising sponsor must not accept




(a)

from an eligible individual, in a calendar year, sponsorship
contributions that have a total value greater than the amount that is
applicable for the year under section 235.05 (4) or (5) of the

Election Act

, or




(b)

a sponsorship contribution that the recall advertising sponsor has
reason to believe is made in contravention of this Act.




(4)

If 2 or more recall advertising sponsors sponsor recall advertising in
combination, the recall advertising sponsors must not use sponsorship
contributions from a single contributor that exceed the limit set in
subsection (3) (a) for that sponsorship.






Restrictions on sponsorship contributions




146.11

(1)


An individual or organization must not make a sponsorship contribution
indirectly by giving money, or providing property or services without
compensation, to a person




(a)

for that person to make a sponsorship contribution, or




(b)

as consideration for that person making a sponsorship contribution.




(2)

An individual must not make a sponsorship contribution with money,
property or services of any other person.




(3)

Despite subsections (1) and (2), an individual may make a sponsorship
contribution with money, property or services of another individual,
if that other individual is an eligible individual, but must disclose
to the recall advertising sponsor required to record the contribution
under section 145 (2) the full name and address of the eligible
individual whose money, property or services are being used.






Limits on anonymous sponsorship contributions




146.12

(1)


In respect of petition period recall advertising in relation to a
recall petition, a recall advertising sponsor must not use anonymous
sponsorship contributions




(a)

such that the total value of the anonymous sponsorship contributions
is greater than the applicable amount under section 235.06 (1) (a) (i)
of the

Election Act

, or




(b)

in combination with one or more recall advertising sponsors such that
the total value of the anonymous sponsorship contributions is greater
than the applicable amount under section 235.06 (1) (b) (i) of the

Election Act

.




(2)

In respect of non-petition period recall advertising, a recall
advertising sponsor must not use anonymous sponsorship contributions




(a)

such that the total value of the anonymous sponsorship contributions
is greater than the applicable amount under section 235.06 (1) (a) (i)
of the

Election Act

, in a calendar year, or




(b)

in combination with one or more recall advertising sponsors such that
the total value of the anonymous sponsorship contributions is greater
than the applicable amount under section 235.06 (1) (b) (i) of the

Election Act

, in a calendar year.




(3)

A recall advertising sponsor must not use as an anonymous sponsorship
contribution an anonymous sponsorship contribution that has a value
greater than the applicable amount under section 235.06 (3) of the

Election Act

.




(4)

Sections 146.08 (2) and (3) and 146.09 (3) of this Act do not apply to
anonymous sponsorship contributions.






Prohibited sponsorship contributions must be returned




146.13

(1)


If a recall advertising sponsor becomes aware that a contribution was
made or accepted as a sponsorship contribution in contravention of
this Act, the recall advertising sponsor must, within 14 days after
the recall advertising sponsor becomes aware of the contravention,
return to the contributor




(a)

the contribution, or




(b)

an amount equal to the value of the contribution.




(2)

If a recall advertising sponsor is not able to comply with subsection
(1), the recall advertising sponsor must not use the contribution to
sponsor recall advertising.






Sponsorship contributions over specified amount




146.14


An eligible individual must not make, and a recall advertising sponsor
must not accept, a sponsorship contribution of money in an amount
greater than the applicable amount under section 235.07 of the

Election Act

, except by means of




(a)

a cheque with the name of the contributor legibly shown on it and
drawn on an account in the contributor's name maintained in a savings
institution,




(b)

a money order with the name of the contributor legibly shown on it and
signed by the contributor,




(c)

a credit card in the name of the contributor, or




(d)

an electronic transfer of funds from an account in the contributor's
name maintained in a savings institution.




Division 3.2 — Recall Advertising Limits





Petition period recall advertising limits




146.15

(1)


In respect of a recall petition, an individual or organization other
than an authorized participant must not sponsor, directly or
indirectly, petition period recall advertising during the petition
period




(a)

such that the total value of that petition period recall advertising
is greater than the applicable amount under subsection (2) or (3), or




(b)

in combination with one or more individuals or organizations, or both,
such that the total value of that petition period recall advertising
is greater than the applicable amount under subsection (2) or (3).




(2)

For a recall petition period that begins in 2018, the applicable
amount for subsection (1) (a) and (b) is $5 000.




(3)

Sections 186.01 (3) and 270.01 (2) of the

Election Act

apply to adjust the amounts under this section.






Penalties for exceeding advertising limit




146.16

(1)


Unless relief is granted by a court under section 146.17, if a recall
advertising sponsor exceeds a petition period recall advertising
limit, the recall advertising sponsor




(a)

must pay to the chief electoral officer a penalty of 10 times the
amount by which the value of the petition period recall advertising
sponsored by the recall advertising sponsor exceeds the limit, and




(b)

is deregistered as a recall advertising sponsor under this Part and is
not entitled to be reregistered as a recall advertising sponsor until
the penalty referred to in paragraph (a) is paid.




(2)

In the case of a recall advertising sponsor that is an unincorporated
organization, the members of the organization are jointly and
severally liable to pay the penalty under subsection (1) (b).




(3)

A penalty referred to in subsection (1) is effective as follows:




(a)

if no application under section 146.17 is made in respect of the
recall advertising sponsor, at the end of the period for making such
an application;




(b)

if, on the final determination of an application under section 146.17,
the court refuses to grant relief from the penalty, at the time of
that determination.






Court order for relief from advertising limit




146.17

(1)


A recall advertising sponsor may apply to the Supreme Court in
accordance with this section for relief from penalties under section
146.16.




(2)

An application may be made only within 58 days after the end of the
recall petition period for the recall petition in relation to which
the petition period recall advertising limit was exceeded.




(3)

The petition commencing an application must be served on the chief
electoral officer within 7 days after it is filed and the chief
electoral officer is a party to the application.




(4)

On the hearing of an application, the court may




(a)

grant relief from a penalty if the court considers that, in relation
to the non-compliance, the recall advertising sponsor acted in good
faith, or




(b)

refuse to grant relief.




Division 4 — Reporting by Recall Advertising Sponsors





Disclosure report within 14 days — non-petition period recall
advertising




146.18

(1)


In this section,
"receiving"
, in relation to a sponsorship contribution of money, means the
deposit of the money into an account in a savings institution.




(2)

If a recall advertising sponsor sponsors non-petition period recall
advertising that has a total value greater than $5 000, the recall
advertising sponsor must file with the chief electoral officer an
initial disclosure report that includes the information referred to in
subsection (3) within 14 days of the recall advertising sponsor
sponsoring the advertising message being transmitted to the public
that brings the total value of the non-petition period recall
advertising to an amount greater than $5 000.




(3)

The initial disclosure report must include the following information:




(a)

the full name of each contributor who made one or more sponsorship
contributions that, in total, have a value of more than the applicable
amount under section 243.01 (3) (a) of the

Election Act

;




(b)

the value of each sponsorship contribution made by the contributor
described in paragraph (a) of this subsection and the date on which it
was made.




(4)

If a recall advertising sponsor must file a disclosure report under
subsection (2), the recall advertising sponsor must file with the
chief electoral officer a subsequent disclosure report that includes
the information referred to in subsection (5) within 14 days of the
recall advertising sponsor receiving a sponsorship contribution from a
contributor who makes one or more sponsorship contributions that have
a total value greater than the applicable amount under subsection (3)
(a).




(5)

A subsequent disclosure report must include the following information:




(a)

the full name of each contributor who made one or more sponsorship
contributions that, in total, have a value of more than the applicable
amount under section 243.01 (5) (a) of the

Election Act

, since the date of the initial disclosure report;




(b)

the value of each sponsorship contribution made by the contributor
described in paragraph (a) of this subsection and the date on which it
was made.




(6)

The recall advertising sponsor must file subsequent disclosure reports
under subsection (4) until the recall advertising sponsor is
deregistered as a recall advertising sponsor under this Part.






Disclosure report within 28 days — non-petition period recall
advertising




146.19

(1)


A recall advertising sponsor must file with the chief electoral
officer a recall advertising disclosure report in accordance with this
section and section 146.20 if




(a)

the recall advertising sponsor sponsors non-petition period recall
advertising in an electoral district that has a total value of greater
than the applicable amount under section 244 (1) of the

Election Act

, and




(b)

a recall petition to which the recall advertising relates is issued.




(2)

A recall advertising disclosure report under subsection (1) must be
filed within 28 days after the beginning of the recall petition period
for the recall petition referred to in subsection (1) (b).




(3)

A recall advertising sponsor must file a supplementary report with the
chief electoral officer if any of the information required to be
disclosed in a recall advertising disclosure report changes or if the
recall advertising sponsor becomes aware that the report does not
accurately and completely disclose that information.




(4)

A supplementary report under subsection (3) must be filed within 30
days after the recall advertising sponsor becomes aware of the
circumstances requiring the report to be filed.




(5)

This section does not apply to a recall advertising sponsor who
becomes an authorized participant for a recall petition to which the
recall advertising relates before a recall advertising disclosure
report is due under subsection (2).






Contents of 28-day disclosure report — non-petition period recall
advertising




146.20

(1)


A recall advertising disclosure report filed under section 146.19 must
be in the form specified by the chief electoral officer and must
include the following information:




(a)

the value of the non-petition period recall advertising sponsored by
the recall advertising sponsor in the electoral district in which the
petition was issued that was not previously reported under section
148.01, reported by class as required by regulation;




(b)

the amount of the sponsorship contributions accepted, but not
previously reported under section 148.01, by the recall advertising
sponsor, in relation to the non-petition period recall advertising
referred to in paragraph (a), reported in accordance with subsections
(2) to (4) of this section;




(c)

any amount of the recall advertising sponsor's assets, other than
assets received by way of sponsorship contributions reported under
paragraph (b), that was used to pay for the non-petition period recall
advertising referred to in paragraph (a);




(d)

any other information required by the chief electoral officer to be
included.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1) (b), amounts accepted from
anonymous contributors must be reported separately.




(3)

For the purposes of subsection (1) (b), if the records of the recall
advertising sponsor indicate that a contributor made one or more
sponsorship contributions that, in total, have a value of more than
the applicable amount under section 245 (3) of the

Election Act

, the report under this section must include the following:




(a)

the full name and address of the individual;




(b)

the value of each sponsorship contribution and the date on which it
was received.




(4)

For anonymous sponsorship contributions, the report under this section
must include the dates on which the sponsorship contributions were
received, the amounts received on each date and, if applicable, the
events at which they were received.




(5)

A report under this section must be accompanied by a signed
declaration of the individual recall advertising sponsor or, in the
case of an organization, by a principal officer of the organization
or, if there are no principal officers, by a principal member of the
organization, as to the accuracy of the report.






Disclosure report within 28 days — petition period recall advertising




147

(1)


If a recall advertising sponsor sponsors petition period recall
advertising that has a total value of greater than the applicable
amount under section 244 (1) of the

Election Act

, the recall advertising sponsor must file with the chief electoral
officer a recall advertising disclosure report in accordance with this
section and section 148 of this Act.




(2)

A recall advertising disclosure report under subsection (1) must be
filed with the chief electoral officer within 28 days after the end of
the recall petition period to which it relates.




(3)

[Repealed 2018-41-40.]




(4)

A recall advertising sponsor must file a supplementary report with the
chief electoral officer if any of the information required to be
disclosed in a recall advertising disclosure report changes or if the
recall advertising sponsor becomes aware that the report does not
accurately and completely disclose that information.




(5)

A supplementary report under subsection (4) must be filed within the
equivalent period under section 125 (3) after the recall advertising
sponsor becomes aware of the facts in relation to which the report is
required.






Contents of 28-day disclosure report — petition period recall
advertising




148

(1)


A recall advertising disclosure report filed under section 147 must be
in the form specified by the chief electoral officer and must include
the following information:




(a)

the value of the petition period recall advertising sponsored by the
recall advertising sponsor in relation to the recall petition to which
the report relates, reported by class as required by regulation;




(b)

the amount of the sponsorship contributions accepted, but not
previously reported under section 146.19, by the recall advertising
sponsor, in relation to the petition period recall advertising
referred to in paragraph (a), reported in accordance with subsections
(2) to (4) of this section;




(c)

any amount of the recall advertising sponsor's assets, other than
assets received by way of sponsorship contributions reported under
paragraph (b), that was used to pay for the petition period recall
advertising referred to in paragraph (a);




(d)

any other information required by the chief electoral officer to be
included.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1) (b), amounts accepted from
anonymous contributors must be reported separately.




(3)

For the purposes of subsection (1) (b), if the records of the recall
advertising sponsor indicate that a contributor made one or more
sponsorship contributions that, in total, have a value of more than
the applicable amount under section 245 (3) of the

Election Act

, the report under this section must include the following:




(a)

the full name and address of the individual;




(b)

the value of each sponsorship contribution and the date on which it
was received.




(4)

For anonymous contributions, the report under this section must
include the dates on which the contributions were received, the
amounts received on each date and, if applicable, the events at which
they were received.




(5)

A report under this section must be accompanied by a signed
declaration of the individual recall advertising sponsor or, in the
case of an organization, by a principal officer of the organization
or, if there are no principal officers, by a principal member of the
organization, as to the accuracy of the report.




(6)

[Repealed 2018-41-41.]






Disclosure report after calendar year




148.01

(1)


A recall advertising sponsor must file with the chief electoral
officer a recall advertising disclosure report in accordance with this
section and section 148.02 if the recall advertising sponsor sponsors
in a calendar year non-petition period recall advertising that has a
total value of greater than the applicable amount under section 244
(1) of the

Election Act

.




(2)

A recall advertising disclosure report under subsection (1) must be
filed within 28 days after the end of the calendar year.




(3)

Subsection (1) does not apply if the value of all recall advertising
sponsored, and the amount of all sponsorship contributions accepted,
by the recall advertising sponsor in the calendar year was previously
reported in one or more disclosure reports filed under section 146.19
or 147.






Contents of disclosure report after calendar year




148.02

(1)


A recall advertising disclosure report filed under section 148.01 must
be in the form specified by the chief electoral officer and must
include the following information:




(a)

the value of the non-petition period recall advertising sponsored by
the recall advertising sponsor in the applicable calendar year,
reported




(i)

by electoral district, and




(ii)

by class as required by regulation;




(b)

the amount of the sponsorship contributions accepted by the recall
advertising sponsor in the applicable calendar year, whether or not
previously reported by the recall advertising sponsor, in relation to
all recall advertising sponsored by the recall advertising sponsor in
the applicable calendar year, reported in accordance with subsections
(2) to (4) of this section;




(c)

any amount of the recall advertising sponsor's assets, other than
assets received by way of sponsorship contributions reported under
paragraph (b), that was used to pay for all recall advertising
sponsored by the recall advertising sponsor in the applicable calendar
year;




(d)

any other information required by the chief electoral officer to be
included.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1) (b), amounts accepted from
anonymous contributors must be reported separately.




(3)

For the purposes of subsection (1) (b), if the records of the recall
advertising sponsor indicate that a contributor made one or more
sponsorship contributions that, in total, have a value of more than
the applicable amount under section 245 (3) of the

Election Act

, the report under this section must include the following:




(a)

the full name and address of the individual;




(b)

the value of each sponsorship contribution and the date on which it
was received.




(4)

For anonymous sponsorship contributions, the report under this section
must include the dates on which the sponsorship contributions were
received, the amounts received on each date and, if applicable, the
events at which they were received.




(5)

A report under this section must be accompanied by a signed
declaration of the individual recall advertising sponsor or, in the
case of an organization, by a principal officer of the organization
or, if there are no principal officers, by a principal member of the
organization, as to the accuracy of the report.






Late filing of reports




149

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), a recall advertising sponsor that fails to
file a report under section 146.18, 146.19, 147 or 148.01, as
applicable, with the chief electoral officer within the time period
established by the applicable section or by a court under section 151
may file the report on payment to the chief electoral officer of a
late filing fee equivalent to the applicable amount under section 220
(5) (b) of the

Election Act

.




(2)

A report under subsection (1) must be filed within 30 days after the
end of the time period established by section 146.18, 146.19, 147 or
148.01, as applicable, or before a later date permitted by a court
under section 151.






Failure to file reports




150

(1)


Unless relief is granted by a court on an application under
section 151 commenced before the end of the late filing period
under section 149, if a recall advertising disclosure report is not
filed with the chief electoral officer before the end of that period,
the recall advertising sponsor




(a)

is deregistered as a recall advertising sponsor under Division 3 of
this Part, and




(b)

must pay to the chief electoral officer a penalty equivalent to the
applicable amount under section 220 (5) (b) of the

Election Act

for each day after the last day on which it may be filed under
section 149 up to the date on which it is in fact filed.




(2)

In the case of a recall advertising sponsor that is an unincorporated
organization, the members of the organization are jointly and
separately liable to pay the penalty under subsection (1) (b).




(3)

The penalties referred to in subsection (1) are effective as follows:




(a)

if no application under section 151 is made in respect of the recall
advertising sponsor, at the end of the period for making such an
application;




(b)

if, on the final determination of an application under
section 151, the court refuses to grant relief from the penalty,
at the time of that determination.






Court order for relief from filing obligations




151

(1)


A recall advertising sponsor subject to section 149 or 150 may apply
to the Supreme Court in accordance with this section for relief from
an obligation to file a recall advertising disclosure report or from a
penalty in relation to the filing of such a report.




(2)

An application may be made only within the applicable period under
section 132 (2).




(3)

Within 7 days after it is filed, the petition commencing an
application must be served on the chief electoral officer.




(4)

The applicant and the chief electoral officer are parties to the
application.




(5)

On the hearing of an application, the court may do the following:




(a)

relieve the recall advertising sponsor from the obligation to file the
report, or from specified obligations in relation to the report, if
the court considers that, in relation to the non-compliance, the
recall advertising sponsor acted in good faith;




(b)

grant an extension of the time for filing the report without payment
of a late filing fee under section 149 if




(i)

the application is commenced before the end of the time for filing
without penalty, and




(ii)

the court considers that, in relation to the non-compliance, the
recall advertising sponsor acted in good faith;




(c)

grant an extension of the time for filing the report, subject to
payment of the late filing fee under section 149, if the court
considers that, in relation to the non-compliance, the recall
advertising sponsor acted in good faith;




(d)

make any order the court considers appropriate to secure compliance
with this Act and the regulations to the extent the court considers
reasonable in the circumstances;




(e)

refuse to grant an extension or other relief.






Obligation to maintain records




152


An individual or organization who is or has been a recall advertising
sponsor must




(a)

ensure that the records required for the purposes of this Part are
maintained in British Columbia, and




(b)

retain those records for at least 5 years, or a longer period
specified by the chief electoral officer, from the date of filing of a
report required under this Division in relation to those records.






Publication of recall advertising disclosure report




153

(1)


As soon as practicable after a recall advertising disclosure report
under this Division is received, the chief electoral officer must
publish the report and, if applicable, identify the relevant recall
petition.




(2)

The chief electoral officer may publish a report under subsection (1)
on an Elections BC authorized internet site.




(3)

A report published under this section must not include the address of
a contributor.




Division 5 — Monetary Penalties for Recall Advertising Sponsors





Monetary penalties for failing to register




153.01

(1)


Within 7 days of the chief electoral officer making a determination of
non-compliance with section 143 by an individual or organization, the
chief electoral officer must notify the individual or organization of
the non-compliance and the related penalty.




(2)

Unless relief is granted by a court on an application under section
153.09, if the chief electoral officer gives notice under subsection
(1) of this section, the individual or organization must pay to the
chief electoral officer a penalty in the amount of up to $10 000, as
determined by the chief electoral officer.






Monetary penalties respecting making and using sponsorship
contributions




153.02

(1)


Within 7 days of the chief electoral officer making a determination of
non-compliance with section 146.08 by a person, the chief electoral
officer must notify the person of the non-compliance and the related
penalty.




(2)

Unless relief is granted by a court on an application under section
153.09, if the chief electoral officer gives notice under subsection
(1) of this section, the person must pay to the chief electoral
officer a penalty in the amount of up to double the sponsorship
contribution, as determined by the chief electoral officer.






Monetary penalties respecting contributor confirmation and consent




153.03

(1)


Within 7 days of the chief electoral officer making a determination of
non-compliance with section 146.09 by a recall advertising sponsor,
the chief electoral officer must notify the person of the
non-compliance and the related penalty.




(2)

Unless relief is granted by a court on an application under section
153.09, if the chief electoral officer gives notice under subsection
(1) of this section, the recall advertising sponsor must pay to the
chief electoral officer a penalty in the amount of up to double the
contribution, as determined by the chief electoral officer.






Monetary penalties respecting sponsorship contribution limits




153.04

(1)


Within 7 days of the chief electoral officer making a determination of
non-compliance with section 146.10 by an eligible individual or a
recall advertising sponsor, the chief electoral officer must notify
the eligible individual or recall advertising sponsor of the
non-compliance and the related penalty.




(2)

Unless relief is granted by a court on an application under section
153.09, if the chief electoral officer gives notice under subsection
(1) of this section, the eligible individual or recall advertising
sponsor must pay to the chief electoral officer a penalty in the
amount of up to double the amount that the sponsorship contribution
exceeds the sponsorship contribution limit set in section 146.10, as
determined by the chief electoral officer.






Monetary penalties respecting sponsorship contributions




153.05

(1)


Within 7 days of the chief electoral officer making a determination of
non-compliance with section 146.11 by an individual or organization,
the chief electoral officer must notify the person of the
non-compliance and the related penalty.




(2)

Unless relief is granted by a court on an application under section
153.09, if the chief electoral officer gives notice under subsection
(1) of this section, the individual or organization must pay to the
chief electoral officer a penalty in the amount of up to double the
sponsorship contribution, as determined by the chief electoral
officer.






Monetary penalties respecting anonymous sponsorship contributions




153.06

(1)


Within 7 days of the chief electoral officer making a determination of
non-compliance with section 146.12 by a recall advertising sponsor,
the chief electoral officer must notify the recall advertising sponsor
of the non-compliance and the related penalty.




(2)

Unless relief is granted by a court on an application under section
153.09, if the chief electoral officer gives notice under subsection
(1) of this section, the recall advertising sponsor must pay to the
chief electoral officer a penalty in the amount of up to double the
amount that the sponsorship contribution exceeds the anonymous
sponsorship contribution limit set in section 146.12, as determined by
the chief electoral officer.






Monetary penalties respecting return of sponsorship contributions




153.07

(1)


Within 7 days of the chief electoral officer making a determination of
non-compliance with section 146.13 by a recall advertising sponsor,
the chief electoral officer must notify the recall advertising sponsor
of the non-compliance and the related penalty.




(2)

Unless relief is granted by a court on an application under section
153.09, if the chief electoral officer gives notice under subsection
(1) of this section, the recall advertising sponsor must pay to the
chief electoral officer a penalty in the amount of up to double the
sponsorship contribution, as determined by the chief electoral
officer.






Monetary penalties respecting sponsorship contributions over specific
amount




153.08

(1)


Within 7 days of the chief electoral officer making a determination of
non-compliance with section 146.14 by an eligible individual or a
recall advertising sponsor, the chief electoral officer must notify
the eligible individual or recall advertising sponsor of the
non-compliance and the related penalty.




(2)

Unless relief is granted by a court on an application under section
153.09, if the chief electoral officer gives notice under subsection
(1) of this section, the eligible individual or recall advertising
sponsor must pay to the chief electoral officer a penalty in the
amount of up to double the amount that the sponsorship contribution
exceeds the amount described in section 146.14, as determined by the
chief electoral officer.






Court order for relief respecting recall advertising sponsor
registration and sponsorship contributions




153.09

(1)


A person who is subject to a monetary penalty under sections 153.01 to
153.08 may apply to the Supreme Court in accordance with this section
for relief from the monetary penalty for non-compliance with the
applicable section.




(2)

An application may be made only within 30 days after the chief
electoral officer, under the applicable section, notifies the person
of the non-compliance and related penalty.




(3)

The petition commencing an application must be served on the chief
electoral officer within 7 days after the petition is filed and the
chief electoral officer is a party to the application.




(4)

On the hearing of an application, the court may do the following:




(a)

grant relief from a penalty if the court considers that, in relation
to the non-compliance, the person has acted in good faith;




(b)

make any order the court considers appropriate to secure compliance
with the applicable section to the extent the court considers
reasonable in the circumstances;




(c)

refuse to grant relief.






Publication of names




153.10

(1)


The chief electoral officer must




(a)

publish on an Elections BC authorized internet site




(i)

the names of persons on whom the chief electoral officer has imposed a
monetary penalty under sections 153.01 to 153.08,




(ii)

the section under which the chief electoral officer has imposed the
monetary penalty, and




(iii)

the amount of the monetary penalty, and




(b)

have notice of the information described in paragraph (a) published in
the Gazette.




(2)

The information published under subsection (1) (a) must continue to be
published on an Elections BC authorized internet site until one year
after final voting day for the next general election.




(3)

Publication of the notice under subsection (1) (b) must take place as
soon as practicable after the chief electoral officer imposes the
monetary penalty.




Contents
|


Part 1
|


Part 2
|


Part 3
|


Part 4
|


Part 5
|


Part 6
|


Part 7
|

Part 8 |

Part 9
|


Part 10




