





View Complete Regulation






B.C. Reg. 296/97

Workers' Compensation Board


Deposited September 8, 1997

effective April 15, 1998






This consolidation is current to November 28, 2023.

See the

Cumulative B.C. Regulations Bulletin 2023


for amendments effective after November 28, 2023.





Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Workers Compensation Act


Occupational Health and Safety Regulation

[Last amended March 1, 2023 by B.C. Reg. 223/2022]


Part 8 — Personal Protective Clothing and Equipment





Definitions




8.1

(1)


In this Part:



"flame resistant"

in reference to clothing, means made of a material that, due to its
inherent properties or as a result of treatment by a flame retardant,
will slow, terminate or prevent flaming combustion;


"lifejacket"
means a device that, when worn correctly, provides a specified
buoyancy that will turn the wearer face-up on entering the water, and
will keep the wearer in this position;



"personal flotation device (PFD)"

means a device that, when worn correctly, provides a specified
buoyancy to support a conscious person in an upright or backward
leaning position, but is not designed to turn a person from a
face-down to a face-up position in the water;



"specific location"

means a yard, plant, or other clearly defined and limited area in
which mobile equipment is operated, but does not include an entire
municipality, district, transient forestry operation, construction
site, pipeline or road right-of-way.




(2)

In this Part,
"8-hour TWA limit"
,
"ACGIH"
,
"ceiling limit"
and
"short-term exposure limit"
have the same meaning as in section 5.1.


[am. B.C. Regs. 20/2006, s. 1; 312/2010, App. G, s. 5; 139/2021, App.
D, s. 2.]




General Requirements





Responsibility to provide




8.2

(1)


A worker is responsible for providing




(a)

clothing needed for protection against the natural elements,




(b)

general purpose work gloves and appropriate footwear including safety
footwear, and




(c)

safety headgear.




(2)

An employer is responsible for providing, at no cost to the worker,
all other items of personal protective equipment required by this
Regulation.




(3)

If the personal protective equipment provided by the employer causes
allergenic or other adverse health effects, the employer must provide
appropriate alternate equipment or safe measures.




(4)

Nothing in this section precludes or alters an existing or future
agreement between a worker or workers and an employer to the effect
that the employer will be responsible for the provision, either at no
cost or some cost to the worker, of any or all of the items described
in subsection (1).






Selection, use and maintenance




8.3

(1)


Personal protective equipment must




(a)

be selected and used in accordance with the recognized standards, and
provide effective protection,




(b)

not in itself create a hazard to the wearer,




(c)

be compatible, so that one item of personal protective equipment does
not make another item ineffective, and




(d)

be maintained in good working order and in a sanitary condition.




(2)

If the use of personal protective equipment creates hazards equal to
or greater than those its use is intended to prevent, alternative
personal protective equipment must be used or other appropriate
measures must be taken.

[am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 10.]





Workplace evaluation




8.4


If an evaluation of workplace conditions is required to determine
appropriate personal protective equipment, the evaluation, where
practicable, must be done in consultation with the joint committee or
the worker health and safety representative, as applicable, and with
the worker who will use the equipment.

[am. B.C. Reg. 185/99, s. 49.]





Program




8.5


If personal protective equipment is required to protect against a
chemical exposure or an oxygen deficient atmosphere the employer must
implement an effective protective equipment program at the workplace
which includes




(a)

a statement of purpose and responsibilities,




(b)

written procedures for selection, use, inspection, cleaning,
maintenance and storage of protective equipment, when required,




(c)

instruction and training in the correct use and maintenance of the
equipment,




(d)

for respirators, medical assessment of respirator wearers, when
required,




(e)

documentation when required, and




(f)

program review.

[am. B.C. Reg. 312/2010, App. G, s. 6.]





Annual review




8.6

(1)


The personal protective equipment program must be reviewed annually by
the employer in consultation with the joint committee or the worker
health and safety representative, as applicable.




(2)

The annual review must




(a)

assess exposure control measures to ensure their continued
effectiveness,




(b)

determine the need for further control,




(c)

ensure the adequacy of instruction, and




(d)

for respirators, assess the adequacy of exposure monitoring data and
assess the need for further monitoring, and ensure the adequacy of the
fit test program.


[am. B.C. Regs. 185/99, s. 49; 312/2010, App. G, s. 7.]






Instruction




8.7


The employer must ensure that a worker who wears personal protective
equipment is adequately instructed in the correct use, limitations and
assigned maintenance duties for the equipment to be used.






Supervisor's responsibilities




8.8


The supervisor must ensure that appropriate personal protective
equipment is




(a)

available to workers,




(b)

properly worn when required, and




(c)

properly cleaned, inspected, maintained and stored.






Worker's responsibilities




8.9

(1)


A worker who is required to use personal protective equipment must




(a)

use the equipment in accordance with training and instruction,




(b)

inspect the equipment before use,




(c)

refrain from wearing protective equipment outside of the work area
where it is required if to do so would constitute a hazard, and




(d)

report any equipment malfunction to the supervisor or employer.




(2)

A worker who is assigned responsibility for cleaning, maintaining or
storing personal protective equipment must do so in accordance with
training and instruction provided.

[am. B.C. Reg. 185/99, s. 50.]





Personal clothing and accessories




8.10

(1)


The personal clothing of a worker must be of a type and in a condition
which will not expose the worker to any unnecessary or avoidable
hazards.




(2)

If there is a danger of contact with moving parts of machinery or with
electrically energized equipment, or if the work process presents
similar hazards




(a)

the clothing of the worker must fit closely about the body,




(b)

dangling neckwear, bracelets, wristwatches, rings or similar articles
must not be worn, except for medical alert bracelets which may be worn
with transparent bands that hold the bracelets snugly to the skin, and




(c)

cranial and facial hair must be confined, or worn at a length which
will prevent it from being snagged or caught in the work process.




Safety Headgear





General requirement




8.11

(1)


Before a worker starts a work assignment in a work area where there is
a risk of head injury to the worker from falling, flying or thrown
objects, or other harmful contacts, the employer must take measures to




(a)

eliminate the risk, or




(b)

if it is not practicable to eliminate the risk, minimize the risk to
the lowest level practicable by applying the following control
measures in order of priority:




(i)

engineering controls;




(ii)

administrative controls;




(iii)

requiring the worker to wear safety headgear.




(2)

Safety headgear must meet the requirements of one of the following
standards:




(a)


CSA Standard CAN/CSA-Z94.1-05 or CAN/CSA-Z94.1-15, Industrial
protective headwear — Performance, selection, care, and use

;




(b)

ANSI Standard ANSI/ISEA Z89.1-2009
or
ANSI/ISEA Z89.1-2014
,
American National Standard for Industrial Head Protection.




(3)

If a worker may be exposed to an electrical hazard the safety headgear
must have an appropriate non-conductive rating.




(4)

Chin straps or other effective means of retention must be used on
safety headgear when workers are climbing or working from a height
exceeding 3 m (10 ft), or are exposed to high winds or other
conditions that may cause loss of the headgear.




(5)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 381/2004, s. 3.]




(6)

Damaged headgear or headgear with missing, mismatched, or modified
components must be removed from service.


[am. B.C. Regs. 312/2003, App. A, s. 8; 381/2004, s. 3; 14/2019, App.
A, s. 1; 139/2021, App. C.]






Use with all-terrain vehicles, snowmobiles and motorcycles




8.12

(1)


Operators and passengers on all-terrain vehicles, snowmobiles and
motorcycles must wear headgear meeting the requirements of




(a)


CSA Standard CAN3-D230-M85, Protective Headgear in Motor Vehicle
Applications

,




(b)


British Safety Institution Standard BS5361:1976, Specification:
Protective Helmets for Vehicle Users, (as amended to 1981)

,




(c)


Snell Memorial Foundation 1995 Standard for Protective Headgear for
Use with Motorcycles and Other Motorized Vehicles

, or




(d)


US Federal Standard for Motorcycle Helmets (Title 49 —
Transportation — Part 571.218)

.




(e)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. A, s. 9 (c).]




(2)

Headgear in good condition meeting earlier editions of a standard
listed in subsection (1) may remain in service if purchased before
April 15, 1998.




(3)

When an all-terrain vehicle is operated within a specific location,
with no rollover hazard area and no area containing a significant
hazard that may cause loss of control and at a speed not exceeding 20
km/h (13 mph), safety headgear meeting the requirements of section
8.13 may be used in place of headgear specified in subsection 8.12
(1).


[am. B.C. Regs. 312/2003, App. A, s. 9; 139/2021, App. D, s. 3.]






Use with bicycles and skates




8.13

(1)


A worker riding a bicycle or using in-line skates or similar means of
transport must wear headgear meeting the requirements of




(a)

CSA Standard CAN/CSA-D113.2-M89, Cycling Helmets
,




(b)


Snell Memorial Foundation 1994 Standard for Protective Headgear for
Use in Non-Motorized Sports

, or




(c)


Snell Memorial Foundation 1995 Standard for Protective Headgear for
Use in Bicycling

.




(d)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. A, s. 10 (c).]




(2)

If a bicycle or similar conveyance is operated at speeds not exceeding
20 km/h (13 mph) within a specific location, safety headgear
meeting the requirements of section 8.11 is acceptable when worn with
a chin strap.

[am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. A, s. 10.]



Eye and Face Protection





Eye protection




8.14

(1)


In this section and sections 8.15 to 8.17,
"eye protection"
means personal protective equipment for the eyes.




(2)

A worker must wear eye protection if the worker is in an area of the
workplace where one or more hazards involving the eyes exist, or are
created, due to conditions or activities conducted in the area.




(3)

Eye protection that is required to be worn under subsection (2), or
under any other provision of this Regulation, must meet all of the
following requirements:




(a)

the eye protection must fit the worker properly;




(b)

the eye protection must provide the worker with appropriate protection
from the eye hazards referred to in subsection (2);




(c)

the eye protection must meet the requirements set out in one of the
following standards:




(i)

CSA Standard CAN/CSA-Z94.3-07
or
Z94.3-15, Eye and Face Protectors
;




(ii)


ANSI Standard ANSI/ISEA Z87.1-2015, Occupational and Educational
Personal Eye and Face Protection Devices

.




(4)

To determine whether eye protection provides a worker with appropriate
protection from the eye hazards referred to in subsection (2), all
factors relevant to the nature and extent of each of those eye hazards
must be considered, including, without limitation, the following:




(a)

the form of the hazard;




(b)

the manner in which the hazard may be transmitted;




(c)

the injury or occupational disease that could occur as a result of the
hazard.

[en. B.C. Reg. 14/2019, App. B, s. 1.]





Glass lenses




8.15

(1)


Except as permitted by subsection (2), eyeglasses or eye protection
with glass lenses must not be worn by a worker in an area of the
workplace where there is a risk, due to conditions in the area or the
activities conducted in it, that something could damage the glass
lenses and cause an injury to the eye.




(2)

Eyeglasses or eye protection with glass lenses may be worn by a worker
in an area of the workplace described in subsection (1) if, covering
the glass lenses, the worker wears eye protection that meets one of
the following:




(a)

the impact resistance requirements set out in clause 6.1 of a standard
referred to in section 8.14 (3) (c) (i);




(b)

the impact rated requirements set out in section 6 of the standard
referred to in section 8.14 (3) (c) (ii).

[en. B.C. Reg. 14/2019, App. B, s. 1.]





Side protection




8.16

(1)


Eye protection must have side protection if an eye hazard referred to
in section 8.14 (2) could reach a worker's eye through an unprotected
area beside the eye.




(2)

Despite section 8.14 (3) (c) (i), removable side shields may be used
for eye protection under subsection (1).

[en. B.C. Reg. 14/2019, App. B, s. 1.]





Face protection




8.17

(1)


In this section,
"face protection"
means personal protective equipment for the face.




(2)

A worker must wear face protection covering the worker's eye
protection if the worker is in an area of the workplace where one or
more hazards involving the face exist, or are created, due to
conditions in the area or the activities conducted in it.




(3)

Face protection that is required to be worn under subsection (2), or
under any other provision of this Regulation, must meet all of the
following requirements:




(a)

the face protection must fit the worker properly;




(b)

the face protection must provide the worker with appropriate
protection from the face hazards referred to in subsection (2);




(c)

the face protection must meet the requirements set out in one of the
standards referred to in section 8.14 (3) (c).




(4)

To determine whether face protection provides a worker with
appropriate protection from the face hazards referred to in subsection
(2), all factors relevant to the nature and extent of each of those
face hazards must be considered, including, without limitation, the
factors described in section 8.14 (4) (a), (b) and (c).

[en. B.C. Reg. 14/2019, App. B, s. 1.]





Repealed




8.18


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 14/2019, App. B, s. 1.]




Limb and Body Protection





General requirement




8.19

(1)


The employer must provide appropriate skin, hand, foot or body
protection if a worker is exposed to a substance or condition which is
likely to puncture, abrade or otherwise adversely affect the skin, or
be absorbed through it.




(2)

If there is a danger of injury, contamination or infection to a
worker's hands, arms, legs, or torso, the worker must wear properly
fitting protective equipment appropriate to the work being done and
the hazards involved.






Cleaning or replacement




8.20


If a glove, apron, or other protective equipment used to protect the
skin against contact with a hazardous substance is rendered
ineffective due to contamination with the substance, the protective
equipment must be promptly replaced with clean or decontaminated
equipment to maintain the required protection.






Leg protection




8.21

(1)


Leg protective devices must be worn by a worker operating a chain saw.




(2)

Leg protective devices referred to in subsection (1) must meet or
exceed




(a)

the general requirements of section 4 of the
WorkSafeBC Standard — Leg Protective Devices
, as set out in Schedule 8-A of this Part, and




(b)

the performance requirements of one of the following standards, using
the cut-resistance testing protocol set out in that standard except as
varied in subparagraph (ii):




(i)

WorkSafeBC Standard — Leg Protective Devices
, as set out in section 5 of Schedule 8-A of this Part, applying a
threshold chain speed of 18.3 metres per second or 3 600 feet per
minute;




(ii)


ASTM F 1414-04 Standard Test Method for Measurement of Cut
Resistance to Chain Saw in Lower Body (Legs) Protective Clothing

, but applying a threshold chain speed of 16.8 metres per second or
3 300 feet per minute;




(iii)


ISO 11393-2 Protective clothing for users of hand-held chain-saws —
Part 2: Test methods and performance requirements for leg protectors

, applying a Class 2 threshold chain speed of 24 metres per second or
4 724 feet per minute;




(iv)


BS EN 381-5: 1995 Protective clothing for users of hand-held chain
saws — Part 5: Requirements for leg protectors

, applying a Class 2 threshold chain speed of 24 metres per second or
4 724 feet per minute.




(3)

A leg protective device worn by a worker must have a label that




(a)

is permanently affixed,




(b)

uses lettering that is at least 6 mm (1/4 in.) high, and




(c)

clearly indicates all of the following information:




(i)

the name or trademark of the manufacturer;




(ii)

the standard met or exceeded under subsection (2) (a);




(iii)

the standard met or exceeded under subsection (2) (b);




(iv)

the year of manufacture of the device unless otherwise marked on the
device.




(4)

The requirement to wear leg protective devices does not apply to a
firefighter using a chain saw at the scene of a structural fire.


[am. B.C. Regs. 312/2003, App. A, s. 5; 312/2010, App. F, s. 1.]




Footwear





General requirement




8.22

(1)


A worker's footwear must be of a design, construction, and material
appropriate to the protection required and that allows the worker to
safely perform the worker's work.




(2)

To determine appropriate footwear under subsection (1), the following
factors must be considered:




(a)

slipping;




(b)

tripping;




(c)

uneven terrain;




(d)

abrasion;




(e)

ankle protection and foot support;




(f)

potential for musculoskeletal injury;




(g)

crushing potential;




(h)

temperature extremes;




(i)

corrosive substances;




(j)

puncture hazards;




(k)

electrical shock;




(l)

any other recognizable hazard.




(2.1)

An employer must not require a worker to wear footwear that does not
comply with subsection (1).




(3)

If a determination has been made that safety protective footwear is
required to have toe protection, metatarsal protection, puncture
resistant soles, dielectric protection or any combination of these,
the footwear must meet the requirements of




(a)

CSA Standard CAN/CSA-Z195-M92, Protective Footwear
,




(b)


ANSI Standard Z41-1991, American National Standard for Personal
Protection — Protective Footwear

,




(c)


British Safety Institution Standard BS EN 345:1993 Specification for
Safety Footwear for Professional Use

, or




(d)


British Safety Institution Standard BS EN 346:1993 Specification for
Protective Footwear for Professional Use

.




(e)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. A, s. 12 (c).]




(4)

A worker must wear the appropriate footwear and ensure that it is in a
condition to provide the required protection.




(5)

If it is not practicable for workers in the performing arts to wear
safety footwear meeting the requirements of subsection (3) other
effective measures must be taken for protection from injury.

[am. B.C. Regs. 312/2003, App. A, s. 12; 140/2017.]





Slippery surfaces




8.23

(1)


If a workplace has slippery surfaces, appropriate non-slip footwear
must be worn.




(2)

Caulked or other equally effective footwear must be worn by workers
who are required to walk on logs, poles, pilings or other round
timbers.




High Visibility and Distinguishing Apparel





High visibility apparel




8.24

(1)


A worker who is exposed to vehicles or mobile equipment travelling at
speeds in excess of 30 km/h must wear high visibility apparel that
meets the requirements for Class 2 or Class 3 apparel in
CSA Standard Z96-15, High-Visibility Safety Apparel
.




(2)

A worker who is exposed to vehicles or mobile equipment travelling at
speeds equal to or less than 30 km/h must wear high visibility apparel
that meets the requirements for Class 1, Class 2 or Class 3 apparel in
CSA Standard Z96-15, High-Visibility Safety Apparel
.




(3)

Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply to the following:




(a)

a firefighter who is wearing a protective coat that meets the
requirements of the 2007, 2013 or 2018 edition of

NFPA 1971, Standard on Protective Ensembles for Structural Fire
Fighting and Proximity Fire Fighting

;




(b)

the following persons who are wearing high visibility apparel that
meets the requirements for Class 2 apparel in
CSA Standard Z96-15, High-Visibility Safety Apparel
as modified in accordance with subsection (4):




(i)

a person who is employed by British Columbia Emergency Health Services
as an emergency medical assistant or in any other capacity;




(ii)

a municipal constable as defined in the

Police Act

;




(iii)

a person who is employed in the Commercial Vehicle Safety and
Enforcement branch of the Ministry of Transportation and
Infrastructure;




(c)

a traffic control person referred to in section 18.9 of this
regulation.




(4)

For the purposes of subsection (3) (b), the requirements for Class 2
apparel are modified as follows:




(a)

retroreflective or combined-performance stripes and bands must have




(i)

a minimum width of 25 mm,




(ii)

an entirely retroflective area with a minimum width of 25 mm,




(iii)

a minimum coefficient of retroreflection of 240 cd/(lx•m
2
) measured at an observation angle of 0.2 degrees and an entrance
angle of −4 degrees in accordance with
CSA Standard Z96-15, High-Visibility Safety Apparel
, and




(iv)

a minimum area of 0.05 m
2
on the front of the apparel and 0.05 m
2
on the back of the apparel;




(b)

retroreflective or combined-performance stripes and bands do not have
to form an "X" on the back of the apparel;




(c)

the requirements relating to identification patches and lettering do
not apply;




(d)

background material, excluding identification patches, lettering and
retroreflective or combined-performance stripes and bands, must have a
minimum area of 0.13 m
2
on the front of the apparel and 0.13 m
2
on the back of the apparel.

[en. B.C. Reg. 139/2021, App. B.]





Distinguishing apparel




8.25


If distinguishing apparel is required in another Part of this
Regulation for the purpose of identifying a worker's location or
well-being, the apparel must be of a colour which contrasts with the
environment and must have at least 775 sq cm (120 sq
in) of fluorescent trim for daytime use and retroreflective trim for
nighttime use, on both the front and back.




Buoyancy Equipment





When required




8.26

(1)


A worker who is employed under conditions which involve a risk of
drowning must wear a personal flotation device (PFD) or lifejacket
with sufficient buoyancy to keep the worker's head above water.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply if other acceptable safety measures are
in place which will protect workers from the risk of drowning, or the
water is too shallow to allow the lifejacket or PFD to function
effectively.




(3)

A personal flotation device need not be worn when a personal fall
protection system, guardrail or safety net is being used in accordance
with the relevant requirements in Part 11 (Fall Protection) to
prevent a fall into the water.






Compliance with standards




8.27


Buoyancy equipment must be labelled and otherwise meet the
requirements of




(a)


CGSB Standard CAN/CGSB-65.7-M88, Lifejackets, Inherently Buoyant
Type

with a minimum buoyancy of 93 N (21 lbs),




(b)


CGSB Standard CAN/CGSB-65.11-M88, Personal Flotation Devices

with a minimum buoyancy of 69 N (15.5 lbs),




(c)


CGSB Standard 65-GP-14M, Lifejackets, Inherently Buoyant, Standard
Type

with a minimum buoyancy of 125 N (28 lbs), or




(d)


British Safety Standard BS EN 396-1994, Lifejackets and Personal
Buoyancy Aids — Lifejacket 150 N

, automatically inflatable units with a minimum buoyancy of 150 N (34
lbs).




(e)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. A, s. 13 (c).]

[am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. A, s. 13.]





Working alone




8.28


If a worker working alone is exposed to risk of drowning, the worker
must wear a lifejacket meeting the requirements of section 8.27 (a),
(c) or (d).

[am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. A, s. 14.]





Record of inspection and maintenance




8.29


If workers use inflatable personal flotation devices (PFDs) or
automatically inflatable lifejackets, the employer must keep a record
of all inspections made and maintenance performed on those PFDs or
automatically inflatable lifejackets.

[en. B.C. Reg. 14/2019, App. E, s. 1.]





Retroreflective material




8.30


Personal flotation devices and lifejackets must have at least 200 sq
cm (32 sq in) of white or silver retroreflective material fitted on
surfaces that are normally above the water surface.

[en. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. E, s. 4.]



Flame Resistant Clothing





When required




8.31


Workers must wear flame resistant clothing appropriate to the risk if
working in areas where they may be exposed to flash fires, molten
metal, welding and burning or similar hot work hazards.




Respirators





When respirator required




8.32


If a worker is or might be exposed in a workplace to an air
contaminant that exceeds




(a)

an 8-hour TWA limit, ceiling limit or short-term exposure limit set by
ACGIH for the air contaminant,




(b)

a limit that is otherwise determined by the Board under section 5.48
for the air contaminant, or




(c)

a limit set by section 5.49 for the air contaminant,


the employer must provide an appropriate respirator and ensure that
the worker uses an appropriate respirator in accordance with section
8.34.

[en. B.C. Reg. 312/2010, App. G, s. 8.]





Selection




8.33

(1)


The employer, in consultation with the worker and the occupational
health and safety committee, if any, or the worker health and safety
representative, if any, must select an appropriate respirator in
accordance with

CSA Standard CAN/CSA-Z94.4-93, Selection, Use, and Care of
Respirators

.




(2)

Only a respirator which meets the requirements of a standard
acceptable to the Board may be used for protection against airborne
contaminants in the workplace.


[am. B.C. Regs. 312/2003, App. A, s. 4; 312/2010, App. G, s. 9.]






Maximum use concentration




8.34

(1)


In subsection (2):



"established 8-hour TWA limit"

means the 8-hour TWA limit set by the Board for an air contaminant, or
if the Board has not set an 8-hour TWA limit for an air contaminant,
the TWA limit set by ACGIH for the air contaminant;



"established ceiling limit"

means a ceiling limit set by the Board for an air contaminant, or if
the Board has not set a ceiling limit for an air contaminant, the
ceiling limit set by ACGIH for the air contaminant;



"established short-term exposure limit"

means the short-term exposure limit set by the Board for an air
contaminant, or if the Board has not set a short-term exposure limit
for an air contaminant, the short-term exposure limit set by ACGIH for
the air contaminant.




(2)

In subsection (3),
"maximum use concentration"
means the concentration of an air contaminant calculated in one of the
following ways:




(a)

if an established 8-hour TWA limit applies to the air contaminant to
which a worker is or might be exposed, by multiplying




(i)

the established 8-hour TWA limit for the air contaminant, and




(ii)

the protection factor set out in Table 8-1 that applies to the
respirator type that the worker is using;




(b)

if there is no established 8-hour TWA limit that applies to the air
contaminant to which a worker is or might be exposed, by multiplying




(i)

the established short-term exposure limit for that air contaminant,
and




(ii)

the protection factor set out in Table 8-1 that applies to the
respirator type that the worker is using;




(c)

if there is no established 8-hour TWA limit or short-term exposure
limit that applies to the air contaminant to which a worker is or
might be exposed, by multiplying




(i)

the established ceiling limit for that air contaminant, and




(ii)

the protection factor set out in Table 8-1 that applies to the
respirator type that the worker is using.




(3)

The employer must ensure that a worker does not use a respirator for
protection against a concentration of an air contaminant in the
workplace that is greater than the maximum use concentration.




(4)

The protection factor of 1 000 set out in Table 8-1: Respirator
protection factors for a hood or helmet facepiece, powered (PAPR), and
equipped with a HEPA filter or a sorbent cartridge or canister or both
a HEPA filter and a sorbent cartridge or canister applies only if an
employer who uses or wishes to use that respirator type has evidence
from the manufacturer that demonstrates that




(a)

the manufacturer has tested that type of respirator, and




(b)

those tests demonstrate that a respirator of that type has a
protection factor of at least 1 000.




(5)

The protection factor of 25 set out in Table 8-1: Respirator
protection factors for a hood or helmet facepiece, powered (PAPR), and
equipped with a HEPA filter or a sorbent cartridge or canister or both
a HEPA filter and a sorbent cartridge or canister applies if the
conditions set out in subsection (4) are not met.

[en. B.C. Reg. 312/2010, App. G, s. 10.]



Table 8-1: Respirator protection factors




Respirator type


Protection Factor



Air purifying



Half facepiece, non-powered
10


Full facepiece, non-powered
50



Full facepiece, powered (PAPR), equipped with HEPA filters
for exposure to asbestos

100



Full facepiece, powered (PAPR), equipped with HEPA filters and/or
sorbent cartridge or canister for exposure to contaminants
other than asbestos

1 000


Loose-fitting facepiece, powered (PAPR)
25



Hood or helmet facepiece, powered (PAPR), and equipped with a HEPA
filter or a sorbent cartridge or canister or both a HEPA filter
and a sorbent cartridge or canister, if section 8.34 (5) applies

25



Hood or helmet facepiece, powered (PAPR), and equipped with a HEPA
filter or a sorbent cartridge or canister or both a HEPA filter
and a sorbent cartridge or canister, if the conditions set out in
section 8.34 (4) are met

1 000



Air supplying





Airline — demand (negative pressure)






Half facepiece

10



Full facepiece

50




Airline — continuous flow






Loose-fitting facepiece/hoods

25



Half facepiece

50



Full facepiece

1 000


Helmet/hood
1 000




Airline — pressure demand (positive pressure)






Half facepiece

50



Full facepiece

1 000



Full facepiece, with egress bottle

10 000




Self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA)






Demand (negative pressure)

50



Pressure demand (positive pressure)

10 000



Other factors such as warning properties, IDLH levels, and
cartridge/canister limitations must also be taken into account
when determining the maximum use concentration. Refer to the
manufacturer's instructions and standards acceptable to the Board
for further information.





[am. B.C. Regs. 20/2006, s. 2; 312/2010, App. G, s. 11.]





IDLH or oxygen deficient atmosphere




8.35

(1)


If a worker is required to enter or work in an IDLH or oxygen
deficient atmosphere the worker must




(a)

wear a full facepiece positive pressure respirator which is either an
SCBA, or an airline respirator with an auxiliary self-contained air
cylinder of sufficient capacity to permit the worker to escape
unassisted from the contaminated area if the air supply fails, and




(b)

be attended by at least one other worker stationed at or near the
entrance to the contaminated area who is similarly equipped and
capable of effecting rescue.




(2)

Subsection (1) (a) applies if there is a significant risk of
accidental release into a worker's breathing zone of quantities of an
air contaminant sufficient to produce an IDLH atmosphere.






Emergency escape respirators




8.36

(1)


If the nature or quantity of an air contaminant and the nature of the
work area could prevent a worker escaping from a contaminated area
without assistance, the worker must carry an emergency escape
respirator.




(2)

The emergency escape respirator must be




(a)

carried on the worker's person or be within arm's reach at all times,
and




(b)

sufficient to permit the worker to leave the contaminated area without
assistance.






Respirable air quality




8.37

(1)


Compressed breathing air supplied for equipment such as an SCBA and a
supplied air respirator must be tested at least annually to ensure
that the air being supplied meets the requirements of

CSA Standard CAN/CSA-Z180.1-00, Compressed Breathing Air and Systems

.




(2)

If an SCBA cylinder has not been used for a period in excess of one
year, air in the cylinder must be slowly depressurized to atmosphere
and refilled with compressed breathing air that meets the requirements
of

CSA Standard CAN/CSA-Z180.1-00, Compressed Breathing Air and Systems

.

[en. B.C. Reg. 20/2006, s. 3.]





Corrective eyewear




8.38

(1)


If a worker who wears prescription eyeglasses is required to wear a
full facepiece respirator, the employer must assess the work to be
performed, and provide appropriate specialty corrective eyewear if
necessary to ensure that the work can be performed safely.




(2)

The employer may permit the use of contact lenses by a worker who is
required to wear a full facepiece respirator if their use is not
likely to adversely affect the health or safety of the worker.






Face seal




8.39

(1)


Except for specialty eyewear approved by the Board for use with
positive pressure full facepiece respirators, nothing is permitted
which intrudes between the facepiece and the face, or which interferes
with the face seal of the facepiece.




(2)

A worker required to wear a respirator which requires an effective
seal with the face for proper functioning must be clean shaven where
the respirator seals with the face.






Fit tests




8.40

(1)


A respirator which requires an effective seal with the face for proper
functioning must not be issued to a worker unless a fit test
demonstrates that the facepiece forms an effective seal with the
wearer's face.




(2)

Fit tests must be performed in accordance with procedures in

CSA Standard CAN/CSA-Z94.4-02, Selection, Use, and Care of
Respirators

.




(2.1)

A fit test must be carried out




(a)

before initial use of a respirator,




(b)

at least once a year,




(c)

whenever there is a change in respirator facepiece, including the
brand, model, and size, and




(d)

whenever changes to the user's physical condition could affect the
respirator fit.




(3)

Other personal protective equipment that is to be worn at the same
time as a respirator and which could interfere with the respirator fit
must be worn during a fit test.




(4)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 20/2006, s. 4 (b).]

[am. B.C. Reg. 20/2006, s. 4.]





User seal check




8.41

(1)


Before each use of a respirator which requires an effective seal with
the face for proper functioning, a worker must perform a positive or
negative pressure user seal check in accordance with

CSA Standard CAN/CSA-Z94.4-02, Selection, Use, and Care of
Respirators

.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply to the emergency use of an escape
respirator.

[am. B.C. Reg. 20/2006, s. 5.]





Medical assessment




8.42


If a worker is required to use a respirator and there is doubt about
the worker's ability to use a respirator for medical reasons, the
worker must be examined by a physician, and the examining physician
must be provided with sufficient information to allow the physician to
advise the employer of the ability of the worker to wear a respirator.






Optional use




8.43


In circumstances where section 8.32 does not apply, and either an
employer chooses to provide a respirator to a worker or the worker
chooses to use a personal respirator, then the requirements of
sections 8.3, 8.7 and 8.33 (2) apply.






Records




8.44


The employer must maintain a record of




(a)

fit test results and worker instruction,




(b)

maintenance for air supplying respirators, powered air purifying
respirators, and for sorbent cartridges and canisters, and




(c)

maintenance and repairs for each self-contained breathing apparatus
and all air cylinders in accordance with the requirements of

CSA Standard CAN/CSA-Z94.4-02, Selection, Use, and Care of
Respirators

.

[am. B.C. Reg. 20/2006, s. 6.]





Maintenance and inspections




8.45

(1)


Inspection of compressed air cylinders must be done in accordance with

CSA Standard CAN/CSA-Z94.4-02, Selection, Use, and Care of
Respirators

.




(2)

Self-contained breathing apparatus, including regulators, must be
serviced and repaired by qualified persons.




(3)

Compressed air cylinders must be hydrostatically tested in accordance
with

CSA Standard CAN/CSA-B339-96, Cylinders, Spheres, and Tubes for the
Transportation of Dangerous Goods

.

[en. B.C. Reg. 20/2006, s. 7.]



Schedule 8-A

[en. B.C. Reg. 312/2010, App. F, s. 2.]

(section 8.21 [leg protection])


WorkSafeBC Standard — Leg Protective Devices





Scope




1


This standard provides specifications and performance criteria for leg
protection for a worker using a chain saw.






Definition




2


In this standard,
"leg protection"
or
"leg protective device"
means personal protective equipment worn for protection from leg
injury due to contact with a moving saw chain.






Types of leg protection




3


Leg protection must be of one of the following types:




(a)

pant type: the protective pad is secured to and held in position by
the trousers;




(b)

apron type: the protective pad is secured to an apron style garment
normally worn outside the trousers and secured around the worker's
legs and waist;




(c)

chap type: the protective pad is secured to a chap style garment
normally worn outside the trousers and secured around the worker's
legs.






General requirements




4

(1)


Leg protection must be of materials suitable for the intended
application.




(2)

Leg protection




(a)

must not unduly restrict the manoeuvrability of the worker, and




(b)

must not shrink more than 10% when cleaned in accordance with the
manufacturer's instructions during its service life.




(3)

The protective pad of leg protection must be at least 711 mm (28 in.)
long and of a width covering 180° in the front of both legs from
inseam to outseam plus 100 mm (4 in.) on the left side of both legs.




(4)

If the length requirement in subsection (3) results in a tripping
hazard, the protective pad may be shorter, as long as it meets the
requirements set out in subsection (5).




(5)

When leg protection is worn by a worker, the protective pad




(a)

must extend at minimum from the crotch to within 75 mm (3 in.) of the
ankle, and




(b)

must be effectively secured in this position.




(6)

Effective measures must be taken to prevent unravelling or fraying of
material along any edges or other area of leg protection where
unravelling or fraying is likely to occur.




(7)

A heat seal used to control unravelling or fraying of synthetic fibres
of leg protection




(a)

must be effective over the life of the product, and




(b)

if subject to cracking, must be covered to prevent abrasion of the
worker's skin.




(8)

Instructions on the proper care, maintenance and repair of leg
protection must be provided by the manufacturer.




(9)

Leg protection showing damage that will affect its performance must be
removed from service.






Cut-resistance testing protocol and performance requirements




5

(1)


Leg protection must meet or exceed the "threshold chain speed test" in
which the protective pad must be able to consistently resist being
cut-through by a running saw chain operating at a speed of 1 098
m/min (3 600 ft./min) or more for at least 1.01 seconds.




(2)

Threshold chain speed tests must be conducted




(a)

on leg protection samples assembled in the manner in which the leg
protection will be produced for distribution, and




(b)

using the test apparatus described in subsection (3) in accordance
with the procedures and methodology described in this section.




(3)

The test apparatus to be used in conducting a threshold chain speed
test must include a simulated "leg", chain saw and instruments as
follows:




(a)

a simulated "leg" (see Figure 1) that is




(i)

made of wood approximately 150 mm (6 in.) in diameter with a 20 mm
(3/4 in.) layer of resilient covering (Ensolite or similar material)
attached to simulate the resilience of flesh,




(ii)

designed to allow the leg protection to be mounted and tested similar
to the configuration the leg protection will take when worn by a
worker while the worker's leg is extended, and




(iii)

mounted to allow rotation about the longitudinal axis of up to 75 mm
(3 in.) at the outer circumference, against an applied torque of at
least 1.7 Newton-metres (15 inch pounds) and which torque
may increase as the leg rotates;













(b)

a chain saw, with Oregon 72 LP chisel chain and capable of a chain
speed of at least 1 220 m/min (4 000 ft./min), that
must pivot in a vertical plane to contact the "leg" (see Figure 1)
with a downward force of 50 ± 1 Newtons (11 ± 0.1 lb.);




(c)

instruments to measure and record chain speed and cut-through time.




(4)

The test procedure and methodology are as follows:




(a)

start the saw and set the chain speed to the constant level selected
for the test cut;




(b)

allow the bottom of the running saw chain to freefall 6 mm (1/4 in.)
onto the test specimen mounted on the "leg";




(c)

record the time from contact of the saw chain with the test specimen
to the nearest 0.01 second;




(d)

record the chain speed during each test;




(e)

repeat the tests on the same material until the maximum chain speed (±
15 m/min or ± 50 ft./min) at which cut-through does not occur for
at least 1.01 seconds or more is determined;




(f)

maintain the chain saw in good repair throughout the testing and keep
the saw cutters sharp in accordance with the saw chain manufacturer's
recommendations.




Contents
|



Parts 1 to 3

|


Part 4
|


Part 5
|


Part 6
|


Part 7
|

Part 8 |

Part 9
|



Parts 10 to 11

|


Part 12
|


Part 13
|


Part 14
|


Part 15
|


Part 16
|



Parts 17 to 18

|


Part 19
|


Part 20
|


Part 21
|


Part 22
|


Part 23
|


Part 24
|



Parts 25 to 26

|


Part 27
|


Part 28
|



Parts 29 to 34

|



Schedules





