





View Complete Statute



Land Title Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 250



Part 25 â€” Miscellaneous





Record of names




374

(1)


The registrar must store in the records the names of registered owners
of indefeasible titles, absolute fees and charges, with a reference
opposite each name to the serial number under which the estate or
interest of the owner is registered.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), the registrar must not enter in the records
referred to in subsection (1) a particular class of charge or the
names of a person or class of persons designated by the director.






Record of registered land




375

(1)


The registrar may store in the records, arranged under appropriate
headings, information required by the director respecting all
registered land.




(2)

The registrar may, with the consent of the director, include in the
records under subsection (1) information respecting unregistered land
owned by the government.






Pending applications




376


Where that part of the register relating to a parcel is stored by
electronic means, a pending application must be noted against the
indefeasible title to the parcel to which the application relates, and
the note must include




(a)

the serial number of the pending application, assigned under section
153 (1) (b), and




(b)

other information respecting that application as determined by the
director.






Searching of records




377

(1)


The register and any other official records of the land title office
are open to inspection and search by any person on reasonable
conditions the registrar may impose.




(2)

If the registrar considers that the state of business in the registry
requires, the registrar may process applications for a search in a
different order from that in which the applications were made.




(3)

The registrar may direct




(a)

the manner of conducting a search, and




(b)

that a search be accompanied by an application in the form directed by
the registrar.




(4)

A search may be




(a)

a general search of the register showing the title to the land that is
comprised in one indefeasible title,




(b)

a special search confined to a single instrument,




(c)

a name search to ascertain the land registered in the name of a
person, or




(d)

if permitted by the registrar, a search for pending applications
against the title to the land that is comprised in the indefeasible
title.




(5)

An application for a search must state the nature of the search
required and must be made in person by the applicant or by the
applicant's solicitor or agent.




(6)

The director may by regulation exempt




(a)

a class of charge, or




(b)

the names of a particular person or class of persons


from the application of a search under subsection (4) (c).




(7)

On a general search, the applicant is entitled to search any record
not shown in the register that may affect the title of land covered by
the search.






Registrar to provide certificates




378

(1)


The registrar must, on application, provide




(a)

a state of title certificate showing the subsisting title on the
register and all pending applications,




(b)

a certificate of name search showing the lands or the registration
number of lands registered in the name of a person, except in respect
of the charges or persons exempted under section 377 (6),




(c)

a certified abstract of title,




(d)

a certified extract from the register or other record, and




(e)

a certified copy of an instrument deposited, filed, kept, lodged or
registered in the land title office.




(2)

The registrar may, on application, provide a search of title in
another form or manner and on terms and conditions that may be
prescribed by the regulations.






Certificate as evidence




379

(1)


A certificate, abstract, extract or copy provided by the registrar
must be received in all courts in British Columbia as proof of




(a)

the facts set out in the certificate,




(b)

the contents of the register or records of which it purports to be an
abstract or extract, or




(c)

the instrument of which it purports to be a copy,


without proof of the official seal of the land title office or the
signature or official position of the registrar.




(2)

A copy, certified by the registrar, of an instrument deposited, filed,
lodged, kept, received or registered, affecting land in a registrar's
district, must be received by another registrar in the same manner and
with the same effect as if the original were produced, without proof
of the official seal of the land title office or the signature or
official position of the registrar by whom it purports to be signed.






Lost or destroyed instruments




380

(1)


If the registrar




(a)

is required to produce a record, and




(b)

is unable to do so because it has been lost, mislaid or destroyed,


the registrar must give to the court or person making the requisition
a written certificate to that effect, signed by the registrar, and the
registrar may produce, instead of the record, such documentary
evidence relating to the record as is available in the land title
office.




(2)

The evidence must be accepted as compliance with the requisition and
as conclusive proof of the nature and contents of the record that has
been lost, mislaid or destroyed.






Rights of officers of taxing authorities




381

(1)


An officer or employee of a taxing authority who is authorized by the
registrar is entitled,




(a)

without charge, and




(b)

for the purpose of assessment or taxation and incidental matters,


to search the records of the land title office.




(2)

If the state of business of the land title office permits, the
registrar may, on payment of the fee established by bylaw of the Board
of Directors, supply the taxing authority with the information
required.






Powers and duties of registrar




382

(1)


The registrar may, for the purposes of this Act,




(a)

administer oaths, or instead of administering an oath require a person
examined by the registrar to make and subscribe an affidavit of the
truth of the statement made by the person in an examination,




(b)

take evidence, under oath or otherwise, affecting title or facts
necessary to enable the registrar to decide whether or not the
provisions of this Act have been complied with,




(c)

on such evidence as the registrar considers sufficient, correct errors
in entries made or supply entries omitted under the provisions of this
Act or of a previous Act respecting the registration of titles to
land, but in making corrections the registrar must not erase or render
illegible the original entry, and the registrar must, in correcting or
supplying an entry, sign it and insert the date of the correction, and
every correction so made and every omission so supplied has the same
validity and effect as if the error had not been made or the entry
omitted, except in respect of a registration or filing that may have
been entered in the records of the office prior to the time of
correcting the error or supplying the omitted entry, and




(d)

summon a person whose evidence in respect of a matter pending before
the registrar may be material




(i)

to appear and give evidence on oath respecting the matter, and




(ii)

to produce an instrument, document or evidence affecting title


before the registrar or before another person appointed as special
examiner by order of the registrar.




(2)

The order of the registrar, signed by the registrar and under the
official seal of the land title office, is sufficient authority for
the person named in the order to administer oaths to and to take the
evidence of all persons summoned by the registrar under subsection (1)
(d).




(3)

The evidence, when taken by the special examiner, must be transmitted
to the registrar, and is of the same effect as if it had been taken
before the registrar.






Registrar to cancel or correct instruments, etc.




383

(1)


If it appears to the registrar that




(a)

an instrument has been issued in error or contains a misdescription,
or




(b)

an endorsement has been made or omitted in error on a register or
instrument,


whether the instrument is in the registrar's custody or has been
produced to the registrar under summons, the registrar may, so far as
practicable, without prejudicing rights acquired in good faith and for
value,




(c)

cancel the registration, instrument or endorsement, or




(d)

correct the error in or supply the entry omitted on the register or
instrument or an endorsement made on it, or in a copy of an instrument
made in or issued from the land title office.




(2)

In correcting an error the registrar must not erase or render
illegible the original words.




(3)

The registrar must affix the registrar's signature to the correction
and the date on which the correction was made or the endorsement
supplied.




(4)

Subsections (2) and (3) do not apply to a correction made to records
stored by electronic means.




(5)

A register or instrument so corrected, and an endorsement so corrected
or supplied, has validity and effect as if the error had not been made
or the entry omitted.




(6)

A cancellation of an instrument or endorsement made under this section
has validity and effect from the time the instrument was issued or the
endorsement was made.






Public Agency Accommodation Act
amendments




383.1

(1)


Without limiting any other power of the registrar under this or any
other enactment, the registrar may amend any part of the register to
reflect the transfer and vesting effected by section 2 (1) of the

Public Agency Accommodation Act

.




(2)

In making an amendment under subsection (1), the registrar must not
erase or render illegible the original words.




(3)

The registrar must affix the registrar's signature to the amendment
and the date on which the amendment was made.




(4)

Subsections (2) and (3) do not apply to an amendment made to records
stored by electronic means.




(5)

Without limiting section 2 (2) (c) of the

Public Agency Accommodation Act

, an amendment under this section is valid and effective from the time
section 2 of the

Public Agency Accommodation Act

comes into force.






Homeowner Protection Act
amendments




383.2

(1)


Without limiting any other power of the registrar under this or any
other enactment, the registrar may amend any part of the register to
reflect




(a)

the transfer to and vesting in the British Columbia Housing Management
Commission of restrictive covenants registered under section 219 of
this Act effected by section 54 (2) (c) of the
Budget Measures Implementation Act, 2010
, and




(b)

the transfer to and vesting in the government of all interests in land
registered in the name of the Homeowner Protection Office, except
restrictive covenants registered under section 219 of this Act,
effected by section 56 (2) (a) of the
Budget Measures Implementation Act, 2010
.




(2)

In making an amendment under subsection (1), the registrar must not
erase or render illegible the original words.




(3)

The registrar must affix the registrar's signature to the amendment
and the date on which the amendment was made.




(4)

Subsections (2) and (3) do not apply to an amendment made to records
stored by electronic means.




(5)

Without limiting section 54 (3) or 56 (2) (c) of the
Budget Measures Implementation Act, 2010
, an amendment under this section is valid and effective as of April
1, 2010.






Preservation of registry records and plans




384

(1)


If




(a)

a record of the land title office, from use or age, is becoming
obliterated or unfit for future use, or




(b)

in the opinion of the registrar, convenience of reference requires,


the registrar may cause the record, or a selected portion of it, to be
copied in a record of similar description.




(2)

The copied record, together with a certificate of the registrar at the
end of it to the effect that the recopied record is a true copy of the
original record, must for all purposes be accepted and received as the
original record.




(3)

Despite this section but subject to section 166, the original record
must be preserved among the records of the land title office.




(4)

If necessary for its preservation, the registrar may cause




(a)

a record which is out of repair and unfit for use to be repaired or
rebound, or




(b)

a plan deposited or filed to be repaired, copied or mounted.






Records of Land Title and Survey Authority




384.1

(1)


The records are transferred to and vest in the Land Title and Survey
Authority.




(2)

The Land Title and Survey Authority must not destroy or dispose of the
records except in accordance with this Act or section 3 of the

Land Title and Survey Authority Act

.




(3)

The records are not subject to




(a)

any process of attachment, execution or seizure, or




(b)

a trust in favour of a person who claims to have sustained a loss.




(4)

Despite any Act, agreement or court order, a receiver must not
exercise custody or control over the records.




(5)

If a provision of an agreement to which the Land Title and Survey
Authority is a party limits access to or the use of records in a
manner that is inconsistent with this Act, the provision is not
enforceable against the Authority.






Power to make regulations




385

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
sectionÂ 41 of the

Interpretation Act

.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations as follows:




(a)

respecting a matter to be brought before a court under this Act;




(b)

establishing a scale of fees on applications and other proceedings
authorized by this Act;




(c)

respecting procedure and practice under this Act insofar as any other
Act, Provincial or federal, or a regulation made under such Act,
relates to or affects the title to land;




(d)

respecting the form of and the manner in which the registers and
certificates relating to titles are kept or provided, or in which
applications under this Act relating to land are made and dealt with,
and, if required, modifying the provisions of this Act in that
respect;




(e)

despite this Act, directing the registrar to dispense with or to
suspend for any period the issue of duplicate indefeasible titles, or
to provide for their issue in certain circumstances;




(f)

[Repealed 2004-66-136.]




(g)

limiting the number of persons who may be named as registered owners
in fee simple in one indefeasible title;




(h)

permitting land to be described by reference to an indefeasible title
number;




(i)

[Repealed 2004-66-136.]




(j)

defining the meaning and legal effect of a word or phrase used in the
regulations;




(k)

varying the hours a registrar must keep the land title office open to
the public for the transaction of business;




(l)

providing for or facilitating the computerization of the land title
system;




(m)

declaring that a designated class of owners in fee simple registered
in the absolute fees register are entitled to have indefeasible titles
registered to them on compliance with the conditions set out in the
regulations;




(n)

[Repealed 2004-66-136.]




(o)

prescribing the effect of an approved form of instrument, if the
effect of it is not stated in this Act;




(p) to (r)

[Repealed 2004-66-136.]




(s)

prescribing the manner of effecting service by electronic means for
the purposes of section 317.1 and the method of proving that service.




(3)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations permitting or
requiring the registration and governing the procedure for
registration of the title to and dealings with an estate or interest
in land less than the fee simple, including statutory rights of way
that, before or after this Act comes into force, may be granted or
created




(a)

by the Crown in right of British Columbia;




(b)

by the Crown in right of Canada;




(c)

by a public officer, ministry or department of the Province or Canada;
or




(d)

by a municipality or regional district

under an enactment.



(4)

The regulations referred to in subsection (3) may




(a)

classify the various estates or interests in any manner,




(b)

apply separate provisions to separate classes,




(c)

make registration compulsory or permissive,




(d)

extend all or part of this Act to the registration,




(e)

specify the offices in which the registration is to be effected,




(f)

provide that registered judgments must form a charge on all estates or
interests of the judgment debtor registered under the regulation so
made, and




(g)

in the case of statutory rights of way, set the value per kilometre of
right of way for the purpose of payment of fees on the registration of
the title to the statutory right of way.




(5)

The Association of British Columbia Land Surveyors may make rules
under section 75 of the

Land Surveyors Act

respecting the conduct of surveys referred to in this Act and the form
and content of plans to be filed, registered or deposited under this
Act.






Fees




386

(1)


There must be paid to the registrar,




(a)

in respect of the matters in the regulations, the respective fees
prescribed or other fees the Lieutenant Governor in Council may
establish by regulation, and




(b)

in respect of services provided by the registrar, the Surveyor General
or persons under the direction of the registrar or Surveyor General,
the respective fees the Board of Directors may establish by bylaw.




(2)

The registrar must pay all fees received by the registrar, except fees
established by the Board of Directors, into the consolidated revenue
fund.




(3)

Payment of fees must be made at the time




(a)

an application is tendered to the registrar,




(b)

an instrument is filed with the registrar, or




(c)

a request is made for the performance by the registrar of an act or
duty,


otherwise the application or instrument must not be received or the
request complied with.




(3.1)

Payment of fees required by this section in respect of the
registration of an electronic application, electronic instrument or
electronic plan application, as those terms are defined in Part 10.1,
may be made by electronic means in accordance with the regulations
made under subsection (3.2).




(3.2)

The Board of Directors may make regulations respecting the manner in
which payment of fees by electronic means is to be made under
subsection (3.1).




(4)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may prescribe fees for




(a)

the conduct of a search of the records contained in the registry,
whether or not the search is conducted by persons under the
registrar's direction, and




(b)

the obtaining of a copy of any record contained in the registry,
whether or not the copy is obtained with the assistance of persons
under the registrar's direction.




(4.1)

Without limiting subsection (1) (b), the Board of Directors may
establish, by bylaw, fees for matters referred to in subsection (4).




(5)

Payment of fees prescribed under subsection (4) or established under
subsection (4.1) must be made at the time the search is conducted or
the copy obtained.




(6)

If an application is refused or withdrawn, the registrar must refund
the balance of fees over and above the amount properly payable.




(7)

[Repealed 2004-66-138.]




(7.1)

The government is exempt from paying any fees payable under this
section.




(8)

If, in the minister's opinion, it is in the public interest to do so,
the minister may




(a)

exempt any person from the payment of all or part of any fee
authorized under this Act, except a fee established by the Board of
Directors, or




(b)

order that all or part of a fee received by a registrar, except a fee
established by the Board of Directors, be reimbursed to a designated
person who paid it.




(9)

If an order is made under subsection (8) (b), the minister charged
with the administration of the

Financial Administration Act

must pay to the designated person the amount of the fee to be
reimbursed.




(10)

The minister may remit to the administrator under the

Property Transfer Tax Act

all or part of a fee paid under this Act if the fee or part is to be
refunded under the

Property Transfer Tax Act

to the person who paid it.






Fees specified in Schedule 2




386.1

(1)


There shall be paid to the registrar in respect of a matter mentioned
in Column 1 of Schedule 2




(a)

the fee set out opposite that matter in Column 2 of Schedule 2, and




(b)

any fee set by bylaw of the Board of Directors in respect of that
matter.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not limit the ability of




(a)

the Lieutenant Governor in Council to prescribe or establish fees, or




(b)

the Board of Directors to establish, by bylaw, fees


under sections 385 and 386 for matters other than the matters
mentioned in Schedule 2.




(3)

Section 386 (2), (3) and (6) to (10) applies to the fees specified in
Schedule 2.






Fees payable despite other enactments




386.2


Despite any enactment but subject to sections 386 (7.1) and 386.1 (3),
section 34 of Schedule 1 and the operating agreement, as defined in
the

Land Title and Survey Authority Act

, if a provision of another enactment provides that no fee is payable
under this Act, sections 386 and 386.1 prevail insofar as those
sections require the payment of a fee established by the Board of
Directors.






Offence of fraud




387

(1)


A person commits an offence who




(a)

wilfully makes a false declaration or a false acknowledgement or
certification under PartÂ 5, or




(b)

fraudulently procures, or assists in fraudulently procuring, or is
privy to the fraudulent procurement of an order of the court affecting
the title to land, or of a fraudulent entry on the register, or a
fraudulent alteration or erasure of an entry on the register.




(2)

An order of the court affecting the title to land procured by fraud,
an act consequent on the order and an endorsement, alteration or
erasure made as a consequence of the fraud or the order is void as
between all parties or privies to the fraud.






Offence of false representation




388

(1)


A person commits an offence if the person, as principal or agent in an
application to register title to land or in a transaction relating to
land that is or is proposed to be registered, knowingly and with
intent to deceive,




(a)

makes a material false statement or representation,




(b)

suppresses or conceals from a court, or the registrar, or a person
employed by or assisting the registrar, a material document, fact,
matter or information, or




(c)

is a party to anything mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b).




(2)

An act or thing done or obtained by means of anything mentioned in
subsection (1) (a) or (b) is void, except in respect of a purchaser in
good faith and for valuable consideration.






Application of
Offence Act




389


Section 5 of the

Offence Act

does not apply to




(a)

this Act, or




(b)

the regulations.






Penalties




390


If




(a)

a person contravenes sectionÂ 387 or 388, and




(b)

the act or matter constituting the contravention is not punishable
under the

Criminal Code

,


the person, in addition to every other penalty or punishment to which
the person may by any Act or law be liable, is liable to the penalties
provided in the

Offence Act

.






Conviction not to affect liability




391


No proceeding or conviction in respect of an act declared to be an
offence under this Act affects a right or remedy to which a person may
be entitled against the person who committed the act.






Contaminated land




392

(1)


In this section,
"waste management director"
means a director as defined in the

Environmental Management Act

.




(2)

If because of contamination of land by a special waste a person
entering or using the land is exposed to a danger to health, a waste
management director may file in the land title office in which the
title to that land is registered a notice under this section.




(3)

The notice must contain the legal description of the land affected,
must specify the nature of the contamination and must state the
estimated period that the danger will persist.




(4)

On receipt of a notice under subsection (2), the registrar must
endorse particulars of the notice on the title to the land affected.




(5)

If a waste management director is satisfied that a danger referred to
in subsection (2) no longer exists, the waste management director must
deliver a notice to that effect to the registrar, and the registrar
must cancel the endorsement made on the title.




(6)

No liability attaches to any person because of anything done or
omitted to be done under this section unless it was done or omitted in
bad faith.






Transitional




393


Despite the repeal of the
Land Registry Act
, R.S.B.C. 1960, c. 208,




(a)

absolute fee registers that are closed by order of the Lieutenant
Governor in Council, except as to undersurface rights, must remain
closed, but all entries in them have the same force and validity as
they had on the coming into force of this Act,




(b)

in respect of mines, minerals and undersurface rights, the absolute
fee registers must, subject to sectionÂ 179, remain open for the
transfer of those mines, minerals and undersurface rights which,
before JuneÂ 1,Â 1921, had been registered in the absolute
fee, but entries in respect of mines, minerals or undersurface rights
created after or unregistered on MayÂ 31,Â 1921 must not be
registered in the absolute fee, but must be registered as provided in
this Act,




(c)

the register of charges existing on MayÂ 31,Â 1921 must remain
open for the registration of charges on land, including mines,
minerals and undersurface rights that are registered in the absolute
fee, and




(d)

the provisions of the repealed Act respecting evidence or procedure
relating to registration of absolute fees contained in the repealed
Act remain in force and govern future registrations relating to
registration of absolute fees, but if, in respect of a matter, the
repealed Act is amplified, extended or proceedings under it
facilitated by this Act, the proceedings may be commenced or continued
under this Act.






Transitional â€” removal of notations made under the
Forest Land Reserve Act




394


A registrar may cancel, with or without an application, a notation
that was endorsed on the title of land under section 12.1 of the

Forest Land Reserve Act

before the repeal of that Act.




Contents
|


Part 1
|


Part 2
|


Part 3
|


Part 4
|


Part 5
|


Part 6
|


Part 7
|


Part 8
|


Part 9
|


Part 10
|


Part 10.1
|


Part 11
|


Part 12
|


Part 13
|


Part 14
|


Part 15
|


Part 16
|


Part 17
|


Part 18
|


Part 19
|


Part 19.1
|


Part 20
|


Part 21
|


Part 22
|


Part 23
|


Part 24
|



Part 24.01

|


Part 24.1
|


Part 24.2
|

Part 25 |


Schedule 1

|



Schedule 2





