





View Complete Statute



Forest Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 157



Part 9 — Marine Log Salvage





Repealed




121.1


[Repealed 2011-13-88.]






Log salvage district




122


The minister, by publishing a notice in the Gazette, may




(a)

establish an area of British Columbia as a log salvage district, and




(b)

abolish, or change the boundaries of, a log salvage district.






Receiving station licence




123

(1)


The minister may grant to a person who meets the prescribed
qualifications a receiving station licence authorizing its holder to
accept delivery of salvaged logs within a log salvage district.




(2)

A receiving station licence must contain the terms and conditions,
consistent with this Act and the regulations, determined by the
minister.




(3)

The holder of a receiving station licence must,




(a)

after the date specified in the licence, maintain facilities in the
log salvage district for receiving, storing and sorting salvaged logs,




(b)

dispose of salvaged logs in the prescribed manner,




(c)

pay to the government the prescribed licence fees,




(d)

account for, hold, disburse and use the revenue the holder of the
receiving station receives from the sale of salvaged logs in the
prescribed manner, and




(e)

subject to the regulations, pay to holders of log salvage permits for
salvaged logs delivered to the holder of the receiving station or a
place specified by that holder, compensation in the prescribed amount.




(4)

If a holder of a receiving station licence fails to comply with the
licence, this Part or the regulations respecting log salvage, the
minister may suspend the licence for a period of time and, whether or
not the licence is under suspension, may cancel the licence.




(5)

Before the minister cancels a receiving station licence the minister
must give the holder of the licence an opportunity to be heard.




(6)

A log receiving station licence granted under the former Act continues
in force under this Act as a receiving station licence.






Log salvage permit




124

(1)


Subject to the regulations, a person must not salvage logs in a log
salvage district without a log salvage permit.




(2)

The minister may grant a log salvage permit to a person who meets the
prescribed qualifications.




(3)

A log salvage permit must contain the terms and conditions, consistent
with this Act and the regulations, determined by the minister.




(4)

If the holder of a log salvage permit no longer meets the prescribed
qualifications or fails to comply with the permit, this Part or the
regulations respecting log salvage,




(a)

the minister may suspend the permit for a period of time, and




(b)

the minister, whether or not the permit is under suspension, may
cancel the permit.




(5)

Before the minister cancels a log salvage permit the minister must
give the permit holder an opportunity to be heard.






Disposal and acquisition of salvaged logs




125


A person must not dispose of a log salvaged from a log salvage
district and a person must not accept delivery of a log salvaged from
a log salvage district, except as provided in the regulations.






Area closure




126

(1)


If notified that logs have been lost in an area of coastal waters, the
minister, in a notice published or broadcast, or both, in or near the
area may




(a)

order that the area described in the notice be closed to log salvaging
for a period not exceeding 10 days for each order, and




(b)

amend the description of the area and, subject to the 10 day
maximum, extend or shorten the period of the order.




(2)

While an area is closed a person, other than the owner of a log or the
owner's agent, must not salvage a log in the area described in the
order.




Contents
|


Part 1
|


Part 2
|


Part 3
|


Part 4
|


Part 5
|


Part 6
|


Part 6.1
|


Part 7
|


Part 8
|

Part 9 |

Part 10
|


Part 11
|


Part 11.1
|


Part 12
|


Part 13
|


Part 14
|


Part 15
|


Part 16
|


Part 17
|


Part 18
|


Part 19




