





View Complete Regulation






B.C. Reg. 296/97

Workers' Compensation Board


Deposited September 8, 1997

effective April 15, 1998






This consolidation is current to November 28, 2023.

See the

Cumulative B.C. Regulations Bulletin 2023


for amendments effective after November 28, 2023.





Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Workers Compensation Act


Occupational Health and Safety Regulation

[Last amended March 1, 2023 by B.C. Reg. 223/2022]


Part 5 — Chemical Agents and Biological Agents





Definitions




5.1


In this Part:



"8-hour TWA limit"

means the time weighted average (TWA) concentration of a substance in
air which may not be exceeded over a normal 8 hour work period;


"ACGIH"
means




(a)

the American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists
publication entitled
Threshold Limit Values and Biological Exposure Indices
, dated 2002, as amended from time to time, or




(b)

the American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists
publication entitled

Documentation of the Threshold Limit Values and Biological Exposure
Indices

, as amended from time to time;



"adverse health effect"

means an acute or chronic injury, acute or chronic disease, or death;



"approved storage area"

means a storage area which meets the requirements of article 4.2.7.5
of the
BC Fire Code
;



"approved storage cabinet"

means a flammable liquids storage cabinet which bears a UL or ULC
approval label for this purpose or which otherwise meets the
requirements of subsection 4.2.10 of the
BC Fire Code
;



"approved storage room"

means a room for container storage which meets the requirements of
section 4.2.9 of the
BC Fire Code
;



"as low as reasonably achievable"

or
"ALARA"
means, in reference to a substance, that measures must be taken to
keep a worker's exposure to a level as low as is reasonably
achievable;



"bulk shipment"

means a shipment of a hazardous product that is contained in any of
the following, without intermediate containment or intermediate
packaging:




(a)

a vessel that has a water capacity equal to or greater than 450
litres;




(b)

a freight container, road vehicle, railway vehicle or portable tank;




(c)

the hold of a ship;




(d)

a pipeline;


"carcinogen"
means a substance or a mixture of substances which is identified as a
carcinogen in section 5.57 (1), or




(a)

causes an increased incidence of benign or malignant neoplasms, or




(b)

substantially decreases the latency period between exposure and onset
of neoplasms in humans, or




(c)

results in the induction of tumors at a site other than the site of
administration in one or more experimental mammalian species as a
result of any oral, respiratory, or dermal exposure, or any other
exposure, or




(d)

is metabolized into one or more potential occupational carcinogens by
mammals;



"CAS registry number"

means the identification number assigned to a chemical by the Chemical
Abstracts Service, a division of the American Chemical Society;



"ceiling limit"

means the concentration of a substance in air which may not be
exceeded at any time during the work period;



"compressed gas"

means a substance that meets the criteria for Physical Hazard Class —
Gases Under Pressure, Part 7, Subpart 5 of the HPR;


"container"
includes a bag, barrel, bottle, box, can, cylinder, drum or similar
package or receptacle, but does not include a storage tank;



"continuous flow emergency shower facility"

means a facility capable of delivering water with a spray pattern
designed to effectively flush affected areas of the skin;



"continuous flow eyewash facility"

means a plumbed or portable facility capable of delivering a minimum
of 1.5 litres of water per minute (0.33 imp gal per min) with a water
pressure not exceeding 175 kPa (25 psi) and with a spray pattern
designed to effectively flush both eyes;



"drench hose"

means a flexible hose connected to a water supply and capable of
delivering a minimum of 11.4 litres of water per minute (2.5 imp gal
per min), for use to flush the eyes and/or skin;



"flammable gas"

means a substance that meets the criteria for Physical Hazard Class —
Flammable Gases, Part 7, Subpart 2 of the HPR;



"fugitive emission"

means a gas, liquid, solid, vapour, fume, mist, fog or dust that
escapes from process equipment, emission control equipment or from a
product where workers may be readily exposed;



"hazard information"

means information on the proper and safe use, storage and handling of
a hazardous product and includes information related to its health and
physical hazards;



"
Hazardous Materials Information Review Act
"

or
"HMIRA"
means the

Hazardous Materials Information Review Act

(Canada);



"
Hazardous Products Act
"

or
"HPA"
means the

Hazardous Products Act

(Canada);



"Hazardous Products Regulations"

or
"HPR"
means the Hazardous Products Regulations (Canada);



"hazardous waste"

means a hazardous product that is acquired or generated for recycling
or recovery or is intended for disposal;



"hazardous waste profile sheet"

means a written description of the hazardous waste which identifies
its hazardous characteristics, hazardous ingredients, and prescribes
safe work procedures for handling, storing, using and disposing of the
waste;


"IARC"
means the International Agency for Research on Cancer publication

Monographs on the Evaluation of Carcinogenic Risks to Humans

, as amended from time to time;


"label"
means a group of written, printed or graphic information elements that
relate to a hazardous product, which group is designed to be affixed
to, printed on or attached to the hazardous product or the container
in which the hazardous product is packaged;



"laboratory sample"

means a sample of a hazardous product that is packaged in a container
that contains less than 10 kg of the hazardous product and is intended
solely to be tested in a laboratory, but does not include a sample
that is to be used




(a)

by the laboratory for testing other products, mixtures, materials or
substances, or




(b)

for educational or demonstration purposes;



"manufactured article"

means an article that is formed to a specific shape or design during
manufacture, the intended use of which, when in that form, is
dependent in whole or in part on its shape or design and that, under
normal conditions of use, will not release or otherwise cause an
individual to be exposed to a hazardous product;



"personal eyewash unit"

means an eyewash that supplements an emergency eyewash facility by
delivering immediate flushing for less than 15 minutes;



"portable tank"

means a closed container that is designed to be movable while
containing liquid, which is equipped with skids, mountings or
accessories to facilitate handling of the tank by mechanical means and
is not permanently attached to a transporting vehicle, as defined in
the
BC Fire Code
;



"product identifier"

means, in respect of a hazardous product, the brand name, chemical
name, common name, generic name or trade name;



"readily available"

means, when used in connection with an SDS, present in an appropriate
place and in the form of either




(a)

a physical copy that can be handled, or




(b)

an electronic copy,


that is accessible to a worker at all times;



"short-term exposure limit"

or
"STEL"
means the time weighted average (TWA) concentration of a substance in
air which may not be exceeded over any 15 minute period, limited to no
more than 4 such periods in an 8 hour work shift with at least one
hour between any 2 successive 15 minute excursion periods;



"significant new data"

means new data regarding the hazard presented by a hazardous product
that change its classification in a category or subcategory of a
hazard class, or result in its classification in another hazard class,
or change the ways to protect against the hazard presented by the
hazardous product;



"storage tank"

means a closed container that has a capacity of more than 250 litres
(55 imp gal) and is designed to be installed in a fixed location, as
defined in the
BC Fire Code
;



"supplementary eyewash facility"

means a personal eyewash unit or a drench hose;



"supplier label"

means a label provided by a supplier that contains the information
elements required by the

Hazardous Products Act

;


"tempered"
means maintained at temperatures from 15°C to 30°C (60°F to 85°F);


"temporary"
means non-routine work, and does not refer to routine work of short
duration;



"workplace label"

means a label that discloses




(a)

a product identifier that is identical to that found on the SDS of the
corresponding hazardous product,




(b)

information for the safe handling of the hazardous product that is
conveyed in a manner appropriate to the workplace, and




(c)

that an SDS, if supplied or produced, is available.


[am. B.C. Regs. 185/99, s. 32; 315/2003, App. A, s. 3; 319/2007, App.
A, s. 2; 258/2008, App. C, s. 1; 30/2015, s. 3.]






Designation as hazardous substances




5.1.1


For the purposes of sections 5.2 and 6.33 to 6.40 and Part 30, the
following biological agents are designated as hazardous substances:




(a)

a liquid or solid material that is contaminated with a prion, virus,
bacterium, fungus or other biological agent that has a classification
given by the Public Health Agency of Canada as a Risk Group 2, 3 or 4
human pathogen that causes an adverse health effect;




(b)

a biological toxin that causes an adverse health effect.


[en. B.C. Reg. 319/2007, App. A, s. 3; am. B.C. Reg. 312/2010, App. N,
s. 1.]






General information requirement




5.2


If a worker is or may be exposed to a chemical agent, or biological
agent designated as a hazardous substance in section 5.1.1, which
could cause an adverse health effect, the employer must ensure that




(a)

the identity of the chemical agent or biological agent, its possible
effects on worker health and safety and any precautions required to
protect the health and safety of the worker are clearly indicated by
labels, SDSs, or other similar means,




(b)

the information required by paragraph (a) is clearly communicated to
the worker,




(c)

written procedures are prepared and implemented to eliminate or
minimize a risk of exposure to a chemical agent or biological agent by
any route that could cause an adverse health effect, and to address
emergency and cleanup procedures in the event of a spill or release of
a chemical agent or biological agent, and




(d)

the supervisor and the worker are trained in and follow the measures
required in this Part and Part 6 of this Regulation for the safe
handling, use, storage and disposal of the chemical agent or
biological agent, including emergency and spill cleanup procedures.


[am. B.C. Regs. 319/2007, App. A, s. 4; 30/2015, s. 4.]




Workplace Hazardous Materials Information System (WHMIS)





Application




5.3

(1)


Subject to subsections (2) to (4), sections 5.4 to 5.18 (the WHMIS
Requirements) apply to employers and workers with respect to hazardous
products used, stored or handled at a workplace.




(2)

The provisions concerning a supplier label and SDS do not apply if the
hazardous product is




(a)

an explosive as defined in section 2 of the

Explosives Act

(Canada),




(b)

a drug, food or cosmetic device within the meaning of the

Food and Drugs Act

(Canada),




(c)

a pest control product as defined in section 2 (1) of the

Pest Control Products Act

(Canada),




(d)

a nuclear substance as defined in section 2 of the

Nuclear Safety and Control Act

(Canada), that is radioactive, or




(e)

a consumer product as defined in section 2 of the

Canada Consumer Product Safety Act

.




(3)

The provisions do not apply if the hazardous product is




(a)

wood or a product made of wood,




(b)

tobacco or a tobacco product as defined in section 2 of the

Tobacco Act

(Canada),




(c)

a manufactured article, or




(d)

being transported or handled pursuant to the requirements of the

Transportation of Dangerous Goods Act, 1992

(Canada) or the

Transport of Dangerous Goods Act

.




(4)

The provisions do not apply to a hazardous waste, except that the
employer must ensure the safe storage and handling of a hazardous
waste generated at the workplace through the combination of worker
training and the information required by this Regulation.


[am. B.C. Regs. 199/2014, App. C, s. 1; 30/2015, s. 5.]






Prohibition




5.4

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), an employer must ensure that a hazardous
product is not used, stored or handled in a workplace unless all the
applicable WHMIS Requirements concerning labels, product identifiers,
SDSs and worker education and training are complied with.




(2)

An employer may store a hazardous product in a workplace while
actively seeking information required by subsection (1).

[am. B.C. Reg. 30/2015, s. 6.]





WHMIS program




5.5


If hazardous products are used in the workplace the employer, in
consultation with the joint committee or health and safety
representative, as applicable, must establish and maintain an
effective WHMIS program, as part of the overall workplace health and
safety program, which




(a)

addresses applicable WHMIS Requirements including education and
training,




(b)

is reviewed at least annually, or more frequently if required by a
change in work conditions or available hazard information, and




(c)

provides for the periodic evaluation of the knowledge of workers using
suitable means such as written tests and practical demonstrations.

[am. B.C. Reg. 30/2015, s. 7.]





Worker education




5.6

(1)


An employer must ensure that general WHMIS education, as it pertains
to the workplace, is provided to workers on the




(a)

elements of the WHMIS program,




(b)

major hazards of the hazardous products in use in the workplace,




(c)

rights and responsibilities of employers and workers, and




(d)

content required on labels and SDSs, and the significance of this
information.




(2)

The employer must ensure that a worker who works with a hazardous
product or may be exposed to a hazardous product in the course of the
worker's work activities is informed about all hazard information
received from the supplier concerning that hazardous product as well
as any further hazard information of which the employer is aware or
reasonably ought to be aware concerning the use, storage and handling
of that hazardous product.




(3)

If a hazardous product is produced in a workplace, the employer must
ensure that a worker who works with or in proximity to the hazardous
product or may be exposed to the hazardous product in the course of
the worker's work activities has access to all hazard information of
which the employer is aware or reasonably ought to be aware concerning
the use, storage and handling of that hazardous product.


[am. B.C. Regs. 30/2015, s. 8; 116/2022, App. B, s. 6.]






Worker training




5.7

(1)


An employer must ensure that a worker who works with a hazardous
product or may be exposed to a hazardous product in the course of the
worker's work activities is trained in the following:




(a)

the content required on a supplier label and workplace label, and the
purpose and significance of the information contained on those labels;




(b)

the content required on an SDS and the purpose and significance of the
information contained on the SDS;




(c)

procedures for the safe use, storage, handling and disposal of the
hazardous product;




(d)

procedures for the safe use, handling and disposal of the hazardous
product contained or transferred in




(i)

a pipe or a piping system including valves,




(ii)

a process or reaction vessel, or




(iii)

a tank car, tank truck, ore car, conveyor belt or similar conveyance;




(e)

procedures to be followed where fugitive emissions are present if
workers may be exposed to those fugitive emissions;




(f)

procedures to be followed in case of an emergency involving the
hazardous product.




(2)

Instruction required by subsection (1) must be specific to the
workplace and cover the safe work procedures and emergency response
procedures to be used in the workplace.


[am. B.C. Regs. 30/2015, s. 9; 116/2022, App. B, s. 6.]






Supplier label




5.8

(1)


Subject to any exemptions from labelling requirements in the Hazardous
Products Regulations and this Part, an employer must ensure that a
hazardous product or the container of a hazardous product received at
a workplace is attached or printed with a supplier label.




(2)

Subject to any exemptions from labelling requirements in the Hazardous
Products Regulations and this Part, an employer must not remove,
deface, modify or alter the supplier label, as long as any amount of a
hazardous product remains in a workplace in the container in which it
was received from the supplier.




(3)

Subject to any exemptions from labelling requirements in the Hazardous
Products Regulations and this Part, an employer must replace the label
with either a supplier label or a workplace label if a supplier label
applied to a hazardous product or a container of a hazardous product
becomes illegible or is accidentally removed from the hazardous
product or the container.




(4)

If an employer imports and receives a hazardous product under the
Hazardous Products Regulations at the workplace, without a supplier
label or with a supplier label that does not comply with the Hazardous
Products Regulations, the employer must affix a workplace label that
meets the requirements of the Hazardous Products Regulations.




(5)

The employer must update the labels or the information on containers
as soon as significant new data is provided to the employer by the
supplier.




(6)

An employer who has received an unpackaged hazardous product or a
hazardous product transported as a bulk shipment, to which, under the
exemption in the Hazardous Products Regulations, a supplier label has
not been affixed or attached, must apply a label having the
information required of a supplier label to the container of the
hazardous product or to the hazardous product in the workplace.




(7)

Subsections (2) and (3) do not apply if a label is removed under
normal conditions of use of a hazardous product that is in a container
that has a capacity of 3 ml or less and the label interferes with the
normal use of the product.

[en. B.C. Reg. 30/2015, s. 10.]





Workplace label for employer-produced products




5.9

(1)


If an employer produces a hazardous product at a workplace, the
employer must ensure that a workplace label is applied to the
hazardous product or the container of the hazardous product.




(2)

For purposes of subsection (1),
"produces"
does not include the escape of a hazardous product from equipment or
from another product.




(3)

Subsection (1) does not apply if the hazardous product is in a
container that is intended to contain the hazardous product for sale
or disposition and the container is or is about to be appropriately
labelled.




(4)

The employer must update the workplace label for a hazardous product
produced by the employer as soon as significant new data are available
to the employer.

[am. B.C. Reg. 30/2015, s. 11.]





Workplace label for decanted products




5.10

(1)


If a hazardous product in a workplace is in a container other than the
container in which it was received from a supplier, the employer must
ensure that the container has a workplace label applied to it.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply to a portable container that is filled
directly from a container that has a supplier label or workplace label
applied to it




(a)

if the hazardous product




(i)

is under the control of and is used exclusively by the worker who
filled the portable container,




(ii)

is used only during the shift in which the portable container was
filled, and




(iii)

the content of the container is clearly identified, or




(b)

if all of the hazardous product is required for immediate use.

[am. B.C. Reg. 30/2015, s. 12.]





Piping systems and vessels




5.11


If a hazardous product in a workplace is contained or transferred in




(a)

a pipe, or piping system including valves,




(b)

a process or reaction vessel, or




(c)

a tank car, tank truck, ore car, conveyor belt or similar conveyance,


the employer must ensure the safe use, storage and handling of the
hazardous product through worker training and the use of labels,
placards, or colour coding or any other mode of identification.

[am. B.C. Reg. 30/2015, s. 13.]





Placard identifiers




5.12


If the hazardous product is not in a container or is in a container in
a form intended for export, the employer may fulfill the labelling
requirements under sections 5.8 to 5.10 by posting a placard which




(a)

discloses the information required for a workplace label, and




(b)

is of a size and in locations so that the information is conspicuous
and clearly legible to workers.

[am. B.C. Reg. 30/2015, s. 14.]





Laboratory label




5.13

(1)


If a laboratory sample of a hazardous product is the subject of a
labelling exemption under the Hazardous Products Regulations, a label
provided by the supplier and affixed to, printed on or attached to the
container of the product received at the workplace that discloses the
following information in place of the information required under the
Hazardous Products Regulations complies with the requirements of
section 5.8 of this Part with respect to a supplier label:




(a)

the chemical name or generic chemical name of any material or
substance in the hazardous product that, individually, is classified,
pursuant to the

Hazardous Products Act

and the Hazardous Products Regulations, in any category or subcategory
of a health hazard class and is present above the relevant
concentration limit, or is present at a concentration that results in
the mixture being classified in a category or subcategory of any
health hazard class, if known by the supplier;




(b)

the statement "Hazardous Laboratory Sample. For hazard information or
in an emergency, call / Échantillon pour laboratoire de produit
dangereux. Pour obtenir des renseignements sur les dangers ou en cas
d'urgence, composez" followed by an emergency telephone number for the
purpose of obtaining information that must be provided on the SDS of
the hazardous product.




(2)

If a hazardous product is in a container other than the container in
which it was received from a supplier, or is produced in the
workplace, the employer is exempt from the requirement set out in
section 5.10 if the hazardous product




(a)

is a laboratory sample,




(b)

is intended by the employer solely for use, analysis, testing or
evaluation in a laboratory, and




(c)

is clearly identified through a combination of




(i)

a mode of identification visible to workers at the workplace, and




(ii)

worker education and training required by this Part.




(3)

The employer must ensure that the mode of identification and worker
education and training referred to in subsection (2) (c) enable the
worker to readily identify and obtain either the information required
on an SDS, if one has been produced, or a label or document disclosing
the information referred to in subsection (1) (a) and (b) with respect
to the hazardous product or the laboratory sample.

[en. B.C. Reg. 30/2015, s. 15.]





Supplier SDS




5.14

(1)


Subject to subsection (6), an employer who acquires a hazardous
product for use, handling or storage at a workplace must obtain a
supplier SDS in respect of that hazardous product that complies with
the requirements of the Hazardous Products Regulations.




(2)

When a supplier SDS obtained under subsection (1) for a hazardous
product is 3 years old, the employer must obtain from the supplier an
up-to-date supplier SDS in respect of any of that hazardous product in
the workplace at that time.




(3)

Subsection (2) does not apply if




(a)

the employer has obtained written confirmation from the supplier that




(i)

the SDS has not changed, or




(ii)

the up-to-date supplier SDS does not apply to the hazardous product,
or




(b)

it is not practicable for the employer to obtain the up-to-date SDS or
written confirmation under paragraph (a).




(4)

If the employer is unable to obtain an SDS as required by subsection
(2), the employer must add to the existing supplier SDS any
significant new data or new hazard information applicable to that
hazardous product that the employer is aware of, or ought reasonably
to be aware of, on the basis of the ingredients disclosed in that
document.




(5)

The employer may provide at a workplace an SDS in a format different
from the format provided by the supplier or containing additional
hazard information if the SDS provided by the employer




(a)

subject to section 5.18, contains no less content than the supplier
SDS, and




(b)

the supplier SDS is available at the workplace and the
employer-provided SDS indicates that fact.




(6)

If a supplier is exempted by the Hazardous Products Regulations from
the requirement to provide an SDS for a hazardous product, the
employer is exempt from the requirement to obtain and provide an SDS
for that hazardous product.

[en. B.C. Reg. 30/2015, s. 16.]





Employer SDS




5.15

(1)


If an employer produces a hazardous product in the workplace, the
employer must prepare an SDS in respect of that product that
discloses, subject to section 5.18, the information required under the
Hazardous Products Regulations.




(2)

For the purpose of subsection (1),
"produces"
does not include the escape of a hazardous product from equipment or
from another product nor does it include intermediate products
undergoing reaction within a reaction or process vessel.




(3)

The employer must update the SDS referred to in subsection (1) as soon
as practicable after significant new data or new hazard information
becomes available to the employer.

[am. B.C. Reg. 30/2015, s. 17.]





Availability of an SDS




5.16

(1)


An employer must ensure that a copy of an SDS required by
sections 5.14 or 5.15 is made readily available




(a)

at the workplace to workers who may be exposed to the hazardous
product, and




(b)

to the joint committee or to the worker health and safety
representative, as applicable.




(2)

If an employer is required by subsection (1) to make an SDS readily
available, the joint committee or worker health and safety
representative, as applicable, must be consulted on the means on how
best to achieve SDS accessibility in the workplace.

[am. B.C. Regs. 185/99, s. 33; 30/2015, s. 18.]





Availability of toxicological data




5.16.1


Subject to section 5.18, if an employer manufactures a hazardous
product in a workplace, the employer must disclose as quickly as
practicable the source of any toxicological data used in preparing the
SDS required by section 5.15 (1), at the request of




(a)

any concerned worker at the workplace, the joint committee or the
worker health and safety representative,




(b)

the representative of the workers at the workplace, in the absence of
a joint committee or worker health and safety representative, or




(c)

the Board.

[en. B.C. Reg. 30/2015, s. 19.]





Deletions from an SDS




5.17


If an employer claims an exemption under section 5.18, the employer
may delete the information that is the subject of the claim from the
SDS required by sections 5.14 and 5.15 for the time period in section
5.18 (8), but may not delete hazard information.

[am. B.C. Reg. 30/2015, s. 20.]





Confidential business information and claims for exemption under the
HMIRA




5.18

(1)


An employer who is required, under this Regulation, to disclose any of
the following information on a label or SDS may, if the employer
considers it to be confidential business information, claim an
exemption from the requirement to disclose the information:




(a)

in the case of a material or substance that is a hazardous product,




(i)

the chemical name of the material or substance,




(ii)

the CAS registry number, or any other unique identifier, of the
material or substance, and




(iii)

the chemical name of any impurity, stabilizing solvent or stabilizing
additive that is present in the material or substance, that is
classified in a category or subcategory of a health hazard class under
the

Hazardous Products Act

and that contributes to the classification of the material or
substance in the health hazard class under that Act;




(b)

in the case of an ingredient that is in a mixture that is a hazardous
product,




(i)

the chemical name of the ingredient,




(ii)

the CAS registry number, or any other unique identifier, of the
ingredient, and




(iii)

the concentration or concentration range of the ingredient;




(c)

in the case of a material, substance or mixture that is a hazardous
product, the name of any toxicological study that identifies the
material or substance or any ingredient in the mixture;




(d)

the product identifier of a hazardous product, being its chemical
name, common name, generic name, trade name or brand name;




(e)

information about a hazardous product, other than the product
identifier, that constitutes a means of identification;




(f)

information that could be used to identify a supplier of a hazardous
product.




(2)

A claim under subsection (1) must be made under the

Hazardous Materials Information Review Act

and must be filed in accordance with the procedures established under
that Act and the regulations made under it.




(3)

An employer is deemed to comply with section 5.15 of this Regulation
if the employer produces a hazardous product in the workplace and
files a claim for exemption under section 11 (2) (a) or (b) (i) or
(ii) of the

Hazardous Materials Information Review Act

, and the employer prepares an SDS in respect of that hazardous
product that discloses the following in place of the information
elements listed in section 3 (1) (a), (b), (c) and (d) or 3 (2) (a),
(b) and (c) of Schedule 1 of the Hazardous Products Regulations:




(a)

in the case of a hazardous product that is a material or substance,
the generic chemical name of the material or substance;




(b)

in the case of a hazardous product that is a mixture, the generic
chemical name of each material or substance in the mixture that,
individually, is classified in any category or subcategory of a health
hazard class and is present above the applicable concentration limit
or is present at a concentration that results in the mixture being
classified in a category or subcategory of any health hazard class.




(4)

An employer is deemed to comply with section 5.15 of this Regulation
if the employer produces a hazardous product in the workplace and
files a claim for exemption under section 11 (2) (b) (iii) of the

Hazardous Materials Information Review Act

, and the employer prepares an SDS in respect of that hazardous
product that does not disclose the information element listed in
section 3 (2) (d) of Schedule 1 of the Hazardous Products Regulations.




(5)

An employer is deemed to comply with section 5.15 of this Regulation
if the employer produces a hazardous product in the workplace and
files a claim for exemption under section 11 (2) (d) of the

Hazardous Materials Information Review Act

, and the employer prepares an SDS in respect of that hazardous
product that discloses, in place of the product identifier, a code
name or code number for the product.




(6)

An employer who files a claim for exemption from a requirement to
disclose information in respect of a hazardous product on an SDS or on
a label must disclose on the SDS and, where applicable, on the label
of the hazardous product or the container of the hazardous product,




(a)

the date that the claim for exemption was filed, and




(b)

the registry number assigned to the claim under the

Hazardous Materials Information Review Act

.




(7)

The requirements referred to in subsection (6) apply until




(a)

in the case of an order that was issued by a screening officer under
the

Hazardous Materials Information Review Act

, the end of the period that begins on the final disposition of the
proceedings under that Act in relation to the claim for exemption and
does not exceed the period specified in the order, or




(b)

in any other case, the end of the period not exceeding 30 days after
the final disposition of the proceedings in relation to the claim for
exemption.




(8)

Information that an employer considers to be confidential business
information is exempt from disclosure from the time a claim is filed
under subsection (2) until the final disposition of the proceedings
under the

Hazardous Materials Information Review Act

in relation to the claim and for a period of 3 years after that if the
claim is found to be valid.




(9)

An employer who receives notice of a decision made under the

Hazardous Materials Information Review Act

that the employer's claim or a portion of the employer's claim for
exemption from a requirement to provide information in respect of a
hazardous product on an SDS or a label is valid must, during the
period beginning no later than the end of the applicable period
specified in subsection (7) of this section and on compliance with any
order issued under section 16 (1) or 17 (1) of the

Hazardous Materials Information Review Act

, if applicable, and ending on the last day of the exemption period,
in respect of the sale or importation of the hazardous product,
disclose on the SDS and, if applicable, on the label of the hazardous
product or container in which the hazardous product is packaged, the
following information:




(a)

a statement that an exemption has been granted;




(b)

the date of the decision granting the exemption;




(c)

the registry number assigned to the claim under the

Hazardous Materials Information Review Act

.




(10)

An employer who makes a claim under subsection (1) must abide by the
decisions and orders issued under the

Hazardous Materials Information Review Act

.




(11)

An appeal from a decision or order referred to in subsection (10) may
be made under and in accordance with the

Hazardous Materials Information Review Act

and any regulations made under that Act.

[en. B.C. Reg. 30/2015, s. 21.]





Repealed




5.19


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 30/2015, s. 22.]




Containers and Storage





Condition of containers




5.20


The container of a hazardous substance must be designed, constructed
and maintained in good condition to securely contain the substance.

[am. B.C. Reg. 185/99, s. 37.]





Material integrity




5.21


Any material used to contain, transfer or convey a hazardous substance
must be reasonably resistant to the substance and to any other
substance to which it may be exposed.

[am. B.C. Reg. 185/99, s. 37.]





Covers




5.22


If an open container of a hazardous substance could pose a hazard, the
container must be kept sealed or covered when not in use.

[am. B.C. Reg. 185/99, s. 37.]





Permitted quantities




5.23

(1)


The amount of a hazardous substance in a work area must not exceed the
quantity reasonably needed for work in progress, normally in one work
shift.




(2)

Bulk or reserve quantities must be stored in a designated area
separate from the work area.






Incompatible substances




5.24


Substances which are incompatible must not be stored in a manner that
would allow them to mix in the event of container leakage, breakage or
other such circumstance.






Storage practices




5.25


A hazardous substance must be stored in a designated area, in a manner
which ensures that it will not readily fall, become dislodged, suffer
damage, or be exposed to conditions of extreme temperature.






Storage area




5.26


The designated storage area for a hazardous substance must be




(a)

designed and constructed to provide for the safe containment of the
contents,




(b)

clearly identified by signs, placards or similar means,




(c)

designed and maintained to allow the safe movement of workers,
equipment and material,




(d)

provided with adequate ventilation and lighting, and




(e)

in a location not normally occupied by workers, and not in a location
such as a lunchroom, eating area, change room, clothing storage locker
or passenger compartment of a vehicle.




Flammable and Combustible Substances





Ignition sources




5.27

(0.1)


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 9/2017, App. D, s. 2 (a).]




(1)

When a combustible liquid normally used as fuel, a flammable gas or a
flammable liquid is handled, used or stored, all sources of ignition
must be eliminated or adequately controlled.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1) sources of ignition include open
flame, spark-producing mechanical equipment, welding and cutting
processes, smoking, static discharge and any electrical equipment or
installation that is not permitted under the B.C. Electrical Code for
use in hazardous locations.




(3)

If the work involves more than one employer, the prime contractor or,
if there is no prime contractor, the owner must ensure that sources of
ignition resulting from the work of one employer are eliminated or
adequately controlled in any work area where a combustible liquid
normally used as fuel, a flammable gas or a flammable liquid is
handled, used or stored by any other employer.


[am. B.C. Regs. 199/2014, App. C, s. 2; 9/2017, App. D, s. 2; 14/2019,
App. G, s. 1; 222/2021, App. A, s. 2.]






Bonding or grounding of containers




5.28


If a metallic or other conductive container is used to transfer a
combustible liquid normally used as fuel, a flammable liquid or a
flammable gas to another metallic or other conductive container, the
containers must be electrically bonded to each other or electrically
grounded while the liquid or gas is being transferred.

[en. B.C. Reg. 222/2021, App. A, s. 3.]





Electrostatic charge




5.29


If glass, plastic or other non-conductive container with a capacity of
23 litres (5 imp gal) or more is used to transfer a flammable
liquid, the accumulation of electrostatic charge near the surface of
the liquid must be eliminated or controlled by




(a)

limiting the flow velocity of the liquid to less than 1 m/s
(200 fpm),




(b)

using a grounded lance or nozzle extending to the bottom of the
container,




(c)

limiting free fall,




(d)

using anti-static additives, or




(e)

other effective means.






Dispensing




5.30


If a flammable liquid is dispensed or transferred inside a flammable
liquids storage room,




(a)

the storage room must be mechanically ventilated at a rate of at least
18 m
3
/hr per square metre of floor area (1 cfm/sq ft), but not
less than 250 m
3
/hr (150 cfm),




(b)

exhaust air must be discharged to the outdoors, and makeup air
provided,




(c)

any makeup air duct passing through a fire separation must be equipped
with an approved fire damper, and




(d)

doors must be self-closing.






Flammable gas or vapour




5.31


If it is not practicable to maintain the airborne concentration of a
flammable gas or vapour below the applicable exposure limit, for
example, in a temporary situation or an emergency,




(a)

only the minimum number of workers necessary for the work may be
exposed,




(b)

every worker exposed must be adequately trained and equipped to safely
perform the required duties,




(c)

the concentration of the flammable gas or vapour must not exceed 20%
of the lower explosive limit (LEL), and




(d)

in a life-threatening emergency only, exposure of emergency response
workers is permitted above 20% of the LEL, provided that only those
qualified and properly trained and equipped workers necessary to
correct the unsafe condition are exposed to the hazard and every
possible effort is made to control the hazard while this is being
done.






Manual cleaning




5.32


A flammable liquid must not be used as a manual cleaning solvent
unless




(a)

a thorough review of alternative solvents by the employer indicates
that a suitable non-flammable substitute is not available,




(b)

appropriate written safe work procedures are implemented to
effectively control flammability and health hazards,




(c)

the quantity of liquid used is minimized, and




(d)

the worker is instructed and trained in the safe work procedures.




(e)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 222/2021, App. A, s. 4.]

[am. B.C. Reg. 222/2021, App. A, s. 4.]





Permitted quantities




5.33


Except for the quantity reasonably needed for immediate use, or that
is present for display or sale in public areas of a mercantile
facility, the quantity of combustible and flammable liquids stored
outside an approved storage cabinet, storage room or storage area in
any fire compartment (2 hour fire separation) of a building must not
exceed




(a)

in closed containers, 600 litres (132 imp gal) of liquids having a
flash point below 93.3°C (200°F) of which not more than
100 litres (22 imp gal) may be liquids having a flash point
below 22.8°C (73°F) and a boiling point below 37.8°C (100°F), and




(b)

in storage tanks or portable tanks, 5 000 litres (1 100 imp
gal) of liquids having a flash point below 93.3°C (200°F) and a
boiling point at or above 37.8°C (100°F).






Combustible materials




5.34


Except for packaging used to contain flammable or combustible liquids,
combustible shelves, racks and other materials are not permitted
inside a flammable or combustible liquids storage room or storage
cabinet unless required as part of a fire separation.






Cabinet vent




5.35


If a flammable liquids storage cabinet is vented, the vent must be a
steel pipe at least 5 cm (2 in) in diameter which is connected
directly to the outdoors.




Substances Under Pressure





Containers




5.36

(1)


A tank, cylinder, bottle or other vessel containing a substance under
pressure, together with any associated pressure or flow regulator and
piping or conveyance system, must be




(a)

protected from sparks, flames, excessive heat, physical damage,
electrical contact or corrosion, and




(b)

equipped with suitable pressure relief mechanisms installed so that no
worker will be endangered in the event of discharge.




(c)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 3 (c).]




(2)

Hand-held aerosol spray cans are exempt from the requirements of
subsection (1) (b).

[am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 3.]





Pressure testing




5.37


A compressed gas container which requires pressure testing must bear a
valid and current indication that it has been pressure tested.






Handling and securing cylinders




5.38

(1)


A compressed gas cylinder must not be hoisted by a sling or magnet,
dropped, subjected to impact, handled by the regulator or used as a
roller or work support.




(2)

A compressed gas cylinder must be secured to prevent falling or
rolling during storage, transportation and use, and where practicable,
must be kept in the upright position.






Cylinder markings




5.39


A compressed gas cylinder must be marked to indicate its rated
pressure and the type of gas it contains.






Cylinder valves




5.40

(1)


The valve on a compressed gas cylinder must be kept closed when the
cylinder is empty or not in use.




(2)

A worker must not stand directly in front of a regulator attached to a
compressed gas cylinder when the cylinder valve is being opened.




(3)

Any valve, regulator or fitting connected to a compressed gas cylinder
must be a standard fitting, designed and manufactured for the type of
cylinder and compressed gas for which it will be used, and must
include provisions for flashback arresters where necessary.




(4)

Unless a compressed gas cylinder is equipped with an integral valve
guard, the valve cover must be in position when the cylinder is not
connected for use.






Fittings




5.41


Only standard fittings designed for the specific compressed gas
service may be used with a compressed gas system.






Repealed




5.42


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 4.]






Empty cylinders




5.43


An empty compressed gas cylinder must be identified as being empty and
must be stored separately from other compressed gas cylinders.






Acetylene cylinders




5.44

(1)


A compressed gas cylinder containing acetylene must be used only in
the upright position.




(2)

If the cylinder has been stored or transported in a horizontal
position, it must be placed in the upright position for at least 1
hour before it is used.




(3)

A suitable device for closing the valve on an acetylene cylinder must
be immediately available when the cylinder is connected for use.






Restriction on use of copper




5.45


A fitting or tube made of copper or any alloy containing more than 67%
copper must not be used in a system carrying acetylene gas, except for
copper torch tips and lengths of copper tubing
30 cm (1 ft) or less in length which are open to the
atmosphere.






Restriction on use of oxygen




5.46

(1)


Oxygen gas must not be used in any circumstance where it can contact a
substance that oxidizes readily, such as a petroleum product, natural
fibre or metal powder.




(2)

Oxygen gas must not be used to




(a)

operate a pneumatic tool,




(b)

start an internal combustion engine,




(c)

clean equipment or clothing,




(d)

create pressure in a container, or




(e)

ventilate a workplace.






Cleanliness




5.47


A worker must not permit oil or grease to contact an oxygen cylinder
valve, regulator, or fitting.




Controlling Exposure





Exposure limits




5.48


Except as otherwise determined by the Board, the employer must ensure
that no worker is exposed to a substance that exceeds the ceiling
limit, short-term exposure limit, or 8-hour TWA limit prescribed by
ACGIH.

[en. B.C. Reg. 315/2003, App. A, s. 4.]





Excursion limits




5.49


If a substance referred to under section 5.48 is provided only with an
8-hour TWA limit, the employer must, in addition to the requirement of
section 5.48, ensure that a worker's exposure to the substance does
not exceed




(a)

three times the 8-hour TWA limit for more than a total of 30 minutes
during the work period, and




(b)

five times the 8-hour TWA limit at any time.


[en. B.C. Reg. 315/2003, App. A, s. 5; am. B.C. Reg. 243/2006, s. 2.]






Extended work periods




5.50

(1)


If the work period is more than 8 hours in a 24 hour day, the 8-hour
TWA limit must be reduced by multiplying the TWA limit by the
following factors:






Factor




Length of work period (in hours)






0.7
more than 8, but not more than 10


0.5
more than 10, but not more than 12


0.25
more than 12, but not more than 16


0.1
more than 16






(2)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 188/2011, App. L, s. 1.]


[am. B.C. Regs. 315/2003, App. A, s. 6; 188/2011, App. L, s. 1.]






Additive effects




5.51


If there is exposure to a mixture of 2 or more substances with
established exposure limits which exhibit similar toxicological
effects, the effects of such exposure must be considered additive
unless it is known otherwise, and the additive exposure must not
exceed 100% when calculated as follows:





AE = %EL
1
+ %EL
2
+ ...%EL
n




where



(a)

AE is the calculated additive exposure to the mixture,




(b)

% EL
1
is the measured exposure to component 1 of the mixture expressed as a
percentage of its exposure limit,




(c)

%EL
2
is the measured exposure to component 2 of the mixture expressed as a
percentage of its exposure limit, and




(d)

%EL
n
is the measured exposure to any additional components of the mixture
expressed as a percentage of their respective exposure limits.

[en. B.C. Reg. 315/2003, App. A, s. 7.]





Skin designation




5.52


If skin absorption may contribute to the overall exposure, effective
measures must be taken to limit exposure by this route.






Workplace monitoring




5.53

(1)


If a worker is or may be exposed to a hazardous substance, the
employer must ensure that




(a)

a walkthrough survey is conducted to assess the potential for
overexposure taking into account all routes of exposure, including
inhalation, ingestion, and skin contact, and




(b)

reassessment is conducted when there is a change in work conditions
which may increase the exposure, such as a change in production rate,
process or equipment.




(2)

If the walkthrough survey required by subsection (1) reveals that a
worker may be at risk of overexposure to an airborne contaminant, the
employer must ensure that air sampling is conducted to assess the
potential for overexposure.




(3)

Additional workplace monitoring to reliably determine worker exposure
is required if




(a)

the assessment under subsection (2) reveals that a worker may be
exposed to an air contaminant in excess of 50% of its exposure limit,
or




(b)

measurement is not possible at 50% of the applicable exposure limit.




(4)

Workplace exposure monitoring and assessment must be conducted using
occupational hygiene methods acceptable to the Board.




(5)

The results of workplace exposure monitoring and assessment, or a
summary of the results, must be provided to workers at their request
without undue delay.

[am. B.C. Reg. 185/99, s. 38.]





Exposure control plan




5.54

(1)


An exposure control plan must be implemented when




(a)

exposure monitoring under section 5.53 (3) indicates that a worker is
or may be exposed to an air contaminant in excess of 50% of its
exposure limit,




(b)

measurement is not possible at 50% of the applicable exposure limit,
or




(c)

otherwise required by this Regulation.




(2)

The exposure control plan must incorporate the following elements:




(a)

a statement of purpose and responsibilities;




(b)

risk identification, assessment and control;




(c)

education and training;




(d)

written work procedures, when required;




(e)

hygiene facilities and decontamination procedures, when required;




(f)

health monitoring, when required;




(g)

documentation, when required.




(3)

The plan must be reviewed at least annually and updated as necessary
by the employer, in consultation with the joint committee or the
worker health and safety representative, as applicable.

[am. B.C. Reg. 185/99, s. 39.]





Type of controls




5.55

(1)


If there is a risk to a worker from exposure to a hazardous substance
by any route of exposure, the employer must eliminate the exposure, or
otherwise control it below harmful levels and below the applicable
exposure limit established under section 5.48 by




(a)

substitution,




(b)

engineering control,




(c)

administrative control, or




(d)

personal protective equipment.




(2)

When selecting a suitable substitute, the employer must ensure that
the hazards of the substitute are known, and that the risk to workers
is reduced by its use.




(3)

The use of personal protective equipment as the primary means to
control exposure is permitted only when




(a)

substitution, or engineering or administrative controls are not
practicable, or




(b)

additional protection is required because engineering or
administrative controls are insufficient to reduce exposure below the
applicable exposure limits, or




(c)

the exposure results from temporary or emergency conditions only.


[am. B.C. Regs. 185/99, s. 38; 315/2003, App. A, s. 8.]






Oxygen deficiency




5.56


The airborne concentration of any gas or vapour must be controlled so
that a worker is not exposed to an oxygen deficient atmosphere, and
there is no other hazard, such as fire or explosion.






Designated substances




5.57

(1)


If a substance identified as any of the following is present in the
workplace, the employer must replace it, if practicable, with a
material which reduces the risk to workers:




(a)

ACGIH A1 or A2, or IARC 1, 2A or 2B carcinogen;




(b)

ACGIH reproductive toxin;




(c)

ACGIH sensitizer;




(d)

ACGIH L endnote.




(2)

If it is not practicable to substitute a material which reduces the
risk to workers, in accordance with subsection (1), the employer
must implement an exposure control plan to maintain workers' exposure
as low as reasonably achievable below the exposure limit established
under section 5.48.




(3)

The exposure control plan must meet the requirements of
section 5.54.


[en. B.C. Reg. 315/2003, App. A, s. 9; am. B.C. Reg. 258/2008, App. C,
s. 2.]






Protective policy




5.58

(1)


At any worksite where a worker is exposed to a substance which is
identified in section 5.57 (1) as an ACGIH reproductive toxin or an
ACGIH sensitizer, the employer must develop policy and procedures
appropriate to the risk, which may include protective reassignment.




(2)

The policy and procedures required by subsection (1) must




(a)

inform workers about the reproductive toxin and identify ways to
minimize exposure to the toxin for a worker who has advised the
employer of pregnancy or intent to conceive a child, and




(b)

identify ways to eliminate or minimize exposure to a sensitizer for a
worker who is or may be sensitized to that substance.


[am. B.C. Regs. 315/2003, App. A, s. 10; 258/2008, App. C, s. 3.]






Investigating symptoms




5.59

(1)


If a worker exhibits signs or reports symptoms of overexposure to a
hazardous substance present in the workplace, the employer must
investigate and assess the potential for exposure.




(2)

If the assessment demonstrates that the signs or symptoms can be
caused by exposure to a hazardous substance that is present in the
workplace, further investigation must be conducted, in consultation
with the joint committee or the worker health and safety
representative, as applicable, to address and resolve the worker's
concern.




(3)

Records of the investigation required under subsection (2) must be
made available to workers, and maintained by the employer for a
minimum of 10 years.

[am. B.C. Reg. 185/99, s. 40.]



Ventilation





Application




5.60


Sections 5.61 to 5.71 apply to ventilation used for the control of air
contaminants in the workplace, except for heating, ventilation and air
conditioning (HVAC) systems in buildings, which are subject to
requirements on indoor air quality in Part 4 (General Conditions).






Engineering principles




5.61


A ventilation system for controlling airborne contaminants in the
workplace must be designed, installed and maintained using established
engineering principles.






Submitting plans




5.62


The employer or the employer's agent must submit to the Board drawings
and specifications for an existing or proposed ventilation system if
requested by the Board.






Building modifications




5.63


The owner of a building must permit an employer to install an exhaust
ventilation and makeup air system to meet the requirements of this
Part for controlling harmful air contaminants in the workplace,
provided that all such work is subject to the approval of the owner
acting reasonably.






Controlling air contaminants




5.64

(1)


If ventilation is used as an engineering control, an air contaminant
must be controlled at the source by an effective local exhaust
ventilation system.




(2)

If local exhaust ventilation is not practicable, general (dilution)
ventilation, or a combination of general and local exhaust ventilation
must be used.






Worker location




5.65


A local exhaust ventilation system must be designed so that under
normal work procedures a worker's breathing zone is not located
between the source of contamination and the exhaust uptake.






Ventilation openings




5.66


A ventilation system must not be obstructed by material or equipment
placed in front of the ventilation openings.






Effectiveness




5.67

(1)


An exhaust ventilation system used to control air contaminants in the
workplace must remain in operation until the work process is completed
and the air contaminants generated have been removed so as not to be a
hazard to workers.




(2)

An exhaust ventilation system used to control air contaminants in the
workplace must be regularly inspected and monitored to ensure that it
remains effective.






Failure warning




5.68


If failure of an exhaust ventilation system would result in a hazard
that is not readily apparent to affected workers, the system must be
equipped with a device or other means to warn those workers in the
event of system failure.






Makeup air




5.69

(1)


An adequate supply of makeup air must be provided as necessary to




(a)

maintain the effectiveness of an exhaust ventilation system, or




(b)

prevent an air contaminant being drawn into the work space from
another work area.




(2)

A makeup air supply must not expose a worker to uncomfortable
temperatures or drafts.






Discharged air




5.70

(1)


The use of a ventilation system designed to recirculate contaminants
into the work area is restricted by the provisions of Table 5-1.




(2)

A ventilation system that discharges air from the work area must be
designed to minimize the likelihood of exposing any worker at a
workplace, including an adjacent workplace,




(a)

to an air contaminant in a concentration which exceeds either 10% of
its applicable exposure limit in this Part or an acceptable ambient
air quality standard established by an authority having jurisdiction
over environmental air standards, whichever is greater, and




(b)

if practicable, to an objectionable odour.




Table 5-1: Recirculation of discharged air




Recirculation permitted without written approval


A nuisance particulate with an 8-hour TWA limit of at least 10
mg/m
3
, provided that its concentration in the discharged air is less
than 10% of the TWA limit.


Asbestos fibre or other particulate, except a biological
contaminant, provided that it is exhausted from a portable vacuum
cleaner or bench-top containment unit, fitted with an effective
HEPA filter.


A welding fume, (including its components identified under section
5.57 (1)) exhausted from a portable welding fume extractor fitted
with an air cleaner, provided that its concentration in the
discharged air is less than 10% of the applicable exposure limit.


A biological contaminant discharged from a biological safety
cabinet that is installed and operated in accordance with the
requirements in Part 30 (Laboratories).


Non-allergenic softwood dust, provided that its concentration in
the discharged air is less than 10% of the 8-hour TWA limit.




Recirculation only with written approval by the Board


Allergenic wood dust.


Non-allergenic hardwood dust.


Any contaminant not otherwise listed in this Table.



No recirculation permitted

A substance identified under section 5.57 (1), unless otherwise
identified in this Table.





[am. B.C. Reg. 315/2003, App. A, s. 11.]





Flammable air contaminants




5.71

(1)


If an operation or work process produces a combustible or flammable
air contaminant in concentrations that may present a risk of fire or
explosion, the employer must provide a separate exhaust ventilation
system for the operation or work process.




(2)

If electrical equipment used in an exhaust ventilation system required
by subsection (1) contacts the air stream, the employer must ensure
that the electrical equipment is permitted under the B.C. Electrical
Code




(a)

for use in that location, and




(b)

for the specific air contaminants that are or may be present.




(3)

A dust collector having an internal volume greater than 0.6 m
3
(20 ft
3
) and being used to control combustible dusts must be located and
constructed so that no worker will be endangered in the event of an
explosion inside the collector.


[am. B.C. Regs. 312/2003, App. A, s. 6; 9/2017, App. D, s. 3.]




Internal Combustion Engines





Venting outdoors




5.72


Whenever possible, exhaust from any internal combustion engine
operated indoors must be vented to the outdoors.






Indoor operation




5.73


If mobile equipment powered by an internal combustion engine is
operated indoors or in an enclosed work area




(a)

the engine must be adequately serviced and maintained to minimize the
concentration of air contaminants in the exhaust, and




(b)

the work area must be assessed to determine the potential for exposure
of workers to harmful levels of exhaust components.






Emission controls




5.74


If a worker is or may be exposed to an exhaust gas component in
concentrations exceeding the applicable exposure limits, exhaust gas
scrubbers, catalytic converters, or other engineering controls must be
installed.






Mobile equipment emission controls




5.75


Mobile equipment manufactured after January 1, 1999 that is regularly
operated indoors must be




(a)

equipped with an emission control system that includes a feedback
control for air/fuel ratio, and a three-way catalytic converter if the
mobile equipment is powered by gasoline, propane or natural gas, or
other measures acceptable to the Board, or




(b)

equipped with a scrubber or other emission control system that reduces
particulate emissions by at least 70% when tested according to the
procedures of the Mine Safety and Health Administration, US Department
of Labour, or must meet another standard acceptable to the Board, if
the mobile equipment is powered by diesel fuel.

[am. B.C. Reg. 381/2004, s. 1.]



Hazardous Wastes and Emissions





Label




5.76


If an employer produces, stores, handles or disposes of a hazardous
waste at a workplace, the employer must, except as provided in section
5.79, ensure that a workplace label is applied to each container of
hazardous waste, or the information mandated by the Hazardous Products
Regulations is provided, if applicable.

[am. B.C. Reg. 30/2015, s. 23.]





Placard




5.77

(1)


An employer may identify a hazardous waste which is not in a container
by posting a placard in a workplace which




(a)

discloses the information required for a workplace label, and




(b)

is of a size and in locations so that the information is conspicuous
and clearly legible to workers.




(2)

If a fugitive emission that contains a hazardous product is produced
or disposed of, the employer must post a placard which complies with
subsection (1), or ensure equivalent information is provided to
workers through identification and training.

[am. B.C. Reg. 30/2015, s. 24.]





SDS




5.78


If a hazardous waste or a fugitive emission that contains a hazardous
product is produced, stored, handled or disposed of in the workplace,
the employer must prepare an SDS for the hazardous waste or fugitive
emission unless a hazardous waste profile sheet or its equivalent
which addresses composition, hazards and safe measures for the waste
or fugitive emission is readily available.

[am. B.C. Reg. 30/2015, s. 25.]





Sale or disposal




5.79


An employer must not sell or dispose of a hazardous waste intended for
use, handling, storage or disposal in a workplace unless




(a)

the hazardous waste or container in which the waste is packaged has a
label or placard which complies with sections 5.76 and 5.77, and




(b)

at the time of sale or disposal the employer transmits to the receiver
an SDS for the hazardous products in the hazardous waste or a
hazardous waste profile sheet which addresses the composition, hazards
and safe measures for the hazardous waste.

[am. B.C. Reg. 30/2015, s. 26.]





Sharp-edged waste




5.80


Broken glass, metal or similar rigid, sharp-edged waste must be
disposed of in separate, puncture proof waste containers and the
contents of the containers must be clearly identified.






Combustible dust




5.81


If combustible dust collects in a building or structure or on
machinery or equipment, it must be safely removed before accumulation
of the dust could cause a fire or explosion.




Personal Hygiene





Employer's responsibility




5.82

(1)


If a work process may result in harm to a worker from contamination of
the worker's skin or clothing by a hazardous substance, the employer
must




(a)

supply appropriate protective clothing,




(b)

launder or dispose of the protective clothing on a regular basis,
according to the hazard,




(c)

provide adequate wash facilities, and




(d)

allow time for washing before each work break.




(2)

If work processes involving substances such as lead, mercury,
asbestos, silica or pesticides are high hazard, the employer must also
ensure that workers are provided with




(a)

clothing lockers in separate rooms for street clothing and work
clothing,




(b)

heated shower facilities between the rooms, and




(c)

time for showering and clothing change before the end of the work
shift.




(3)

In a remote location where provision of change rooms and shower
facilities is not practicable, separate clothing storage and adequate
washing facilities must be provided.






Worker's responsibility




5.83


A worker engaged in a work process described in section 5.82 must




(a)

wear the supplied protective clothing,




(b)

wash effectively before each work break and the end of the work shift,
and




(c)

shower at the end of the work shift, if required by the hazard.






Prohibition




5.84


Eating, drinking, smoking, applying cosmetics or storing food is
prohibited in any work area where a work process described in
section 5.82 takes place.




Emergency Washing Facilities





Where required




5.85


The employer must ensure that appropriate emergency washing facilities
are provided within a work area where a worker's eyes or skin may be
exposed to harmful or corrosive materials or other materials which may
burn or irritate.






Water supply




5.86

(1)


For a plumbed emergency eyewash facility, the employer must ensure
that only a potable water supply is used.




(2)

For a portable (non-plumbed) eyewash unit, the employer must ensure
that only potable water or an isotonic saline flushing solution is
used.






Access




5.87


The employer must ensure that access to emergency eyewash and shower
facilities is not blocked by material or equipment.






Risk assessment




5.88


The employer must ensure that the selection of emergency washing
facilities is based upon an assessment of the risks present in the
workplace, according to Table 5-2.






Equipment required




5.89

(1)


The employer must ensure, except where it is not practicable to
provide a permanent water supply, such as at a remote or transient
worksite, that emergency eyewash and shower facilities are provided
and located as specified in Table 5-3.




(2)

Requirements for tempered water in Table 5-3 do not apply if the
advice of a medical professional indicates that tempered washing would
increase the risk of injury in a particular application.






Transient worksites




5.90

(1)


The employer must ensure that portable self-contained units are
provided, where it is not practicable to provide a permanent water
supply at transient worksites such as construction sites.




(2)

The employer must ensure that portable self-contained units at these
transient worksites are capable of delivering a minimum flush duration
of 15 minutes (or more if required by the nature of the material) if
there is a high or a moderate risk of injury to the eyes or skin.






Remote worksites




5.91


The employer must ensure that effective means to flush the eyes or
skin, based upon an assessment of the risk, is reasonably available at
a remote worksite if it is not practicable to provide a portable
self-contained unit.






Signs




5.92


The employer must ensure that emergency eyewash and shower facilities
are clearly identified by signs which indicate their location and
provide clear directions for their use.






Testing




5.93

(1)


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 5 (b).]




(2)

The employer must ensure that a plumbed emergency eyewash or shower
facility is full flow tested at least once per month, for a sufficient
length of time to completely flush the branch of the water line
supplying the eyewash.




(3)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 5 (b).]

[am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 5.]





Training




5.94


The employer must ensure that workers who are required to use
emergency eyewash and shower facilities are adequately trained in
their location and proper use.






Protection from freezing




5.95


The employer must ensure that an emergency eyewash or shower facility
and the piping from the supply are protected against freezing.




Table 5-2: Risk assessment





Risk Level




Description of the workplace




Examples






High risk

Workplaces at which corrosive chemicals or other materials are
used in a manner, concentration and quantity which present a risk
of irreversible tissue damage to the eyes or skin, or of serious
illness resulting from rapid absorption of a toxic substance
through the eyes or skin, or where the work activity presents a
risk of ignition of the clothing.


Maintenance of ammonia refrigeration equipment or chlorine
bleaching or disinfection equipment, handling corrosive materials
such as corrosive cleaning products or chemical reagents where
there is a high risk of skin or eye contact, filling chemical
storage batteries. The following Health Hazard Classes and
Categories in the HPR are included:

(a) skin corrosion (1A), (1B), (1C);

(b) serious eye damage (1).



Moderate risk

Workplaces at which chemicals or other materials are used in a
manner, concentration and quantity which present a risk of
irritation or other reversible harm to the eyes or skin, or of
illness resulting from absorption of a toxic substance through the
eyes or skin.


Spraying automotive paints and finishes, operating solvent
degreasing equipment, handling irritant materials such as cleaning
products or chemical reagents where there is a moderate risk of
skin or eye contact, handling dry-cleaning solvents and spotting
agents. The following Health Hazard Classes and Categories in the
HPR are included:

(a) eye irritation (2A), (2B);

(b) skin irritation (2).



Low risk

Workplaces at which chemicals or other materials are used in a
manner and quantity which present a risk of mild eye or skin
irritation.


Using detergents, silicone-based mold-release agents, some
hair-dressing solutions, rosin-cored solders, welding and
grinding, working in dusty areas.





[am. B.C. Reg. 30/2015, s. 27.]




Table 5-3: Provision and location of emergency washing equipment









High risk




Moderate risk




Low risk







Eye


Equipment




Tempered, continuous flow eyewash facility with a minimum duration
of 15 minutes (or more if required by the nature of the material).




Tempered, continuous flow eyewash facility with a minimum duration
of 15 minutes.




Effective means to flush the eyes.



Location

Within 5 seconds walking distance of the hazard area, but no
further than 6 m (20 ft). For high risk corrosive gases
such as ammonia or chlorine, the facilities must not be located in
the gas storage or use area, but rather, adjacent to it.


Within 10 seconds walking distance of the hazard area, but no
further than 30 m (100 ft).

May be located further than 30 m, provided that

(a) a supplementary eyewash facility such as a personal eyewash
unit or a non-tempered drench hose is located within 10 seconds
walking distance of the hazard area but no further than 30 m, and

(b) first aid services are maintained to start treatment of an
affected worker within 5 minutes of the contact.


Within 10 seconds walking distance of the hazard area but no
further than 30 m (100 ft).




Skin


Equipment




Tempered, continuous flow emergency shower facility with a minimum
duration of 15 minutes (or more if required by the nature of the
material).




Tempered, continuous flow emergency shower facility with a minimum
duration of 15 minutes.




Emergency flushing equipment, such as a non-tempered drench hose.



Location

Same location criteria as for high risk eyewash facility except
that the shower may be located further than 6 m if

(a) a supplementary emergency washing facility such as a
non-tempered drench hose is located within 5 seconds walking
distance of the hazard area but no further than 6 m, and

(b) a tempered shower facility is available within the building to
start emergency washing within 5 minutes of the contact.


Same location criteria as for moderate risk eyewash facility
except that the supplementary emergency washing facility for
locations beyond 30 m must be a unit such as non-tempered
drench hose.


Same location criteria as for low risk eyewash facility.








Valve operation




5.96


The employer must ensure that a valve which activates an emergency
eyewash or shower facility is designed so that, once activated, the
flow of water or flushing solution will continue without requiring the
use of the operator's hands.




Emergency Procedures





Emergency plan




5.97

(1)


A workplace must have a written emergency plan, appropriate to the
hazards of the workplace, that addresses the requirements of
sections 5.98 to 5.102.




(2)

The plan must address emergency conditions which may arise from within
the workplace and from adjacent workplaces.




(3)

The plan must be developed, implemented and annually reviewed in
consultation with the joint committee or the worker health and safety
representative, as applicable.

[am. B.C. Reg. 185/99, s. 41.]





Inventory




5.98

(1)


An inventory must be maintained which identifies all hazardous
substances at the workplace in quantities that may endanger workers in
an emergency including hazardous products covered by WHMIS,
explosives, pesticides, radioactive materials, hazardous wastes, and
consumer products.




(2)

The inventory must identify the nature, location, and approximate
quantity of all such substances, and the location of SDSs.

[am. B.C. Reg. 30/2015, s. 28.]





Risk assessment




5.99


An employer must ensure that an assessment is conducted of the risks
posed by hazardous substances from accidental release, fire or other
such emergency.






Procedures for evacuation




5.100

(1)


Written evacuation procedures appropriate to the risk must be
developed and implemented to




(a)

notify workers, including the first aid attendant, of the nature and
location of the emergency,




(b)

evacuate workers safely,




(c)

check and confirm the safe evacuation of all workers,




(d)

notify the fire department or other emergency responders, and




(e)

notify adjacent workplaces or residences which may be affected if the
risk of exposure to a substance extends beyond the workplace.




(2)

Notification of the public must be in conformity with the requirements
of other jurisdictions, including provincial and municipal agencies.






Procedures for spill cleanup and re-entry




5.101


If workers are required to control a release of a hazardous substance,
to perform cleanup of a spill, or to carry out testing before
re-entry, the employer must provide




(a)

adequate written safe work procedures,




(b)

appropriate personal protective equipment which is readily available
to workers and is adequately maintained, and




(c)

material or equipment necessary for the control and disposal of the
hazardous substance.






Training and drills




5.102


The employer must




(a)

provide training in the appropriate emergency procedures to all
workers who may be affected, and




(b)

conduct drills to test the adequacy of procedures and to ensure that
workers and supervisors are familiar with their roles and
responsibilities.



Table 5-4

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 315/2003, App. A, s. 12.]


Contents
|



Parts 1 to 3

|


Part 4
|

Part 5 |

Part 6
|


Part 7
|


Part 8
|


Part 9
|



Parts 10 to 11

|


Part 12
|


Part 13
|


Part 14
|


Part 15
|


Part 16
|



Parts 17 to 18

|


Part 19
|


Part 20
|


Part 21
|


Part 22
|


Part 23
|


Part 24
|



Parts 25 to 26

|


Part 27
|


Part 28
|



Parts 29 to 34

|



Schedules





