





View Complete Statute



Strata Property Act
[SBC 1998] CHAPTER 43



Part 9 — Insurance





Property insurance required for strata corporation




149

(1)


The strata corporation must obtain and maintain property insurance on




(a)

common property,




(b)

common assets,




(c)

buildings shown on the strata plan, and




(d)

fixtures built or installed on a strata lot, if the fixtures are built
or installed by the owner developer as part of the original
construction on the strata lot.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1) (d) and section 152 (b), "fixtures"
has the meaning set out in the regulations.




(3)

Subsection (1) (d) does not apply to a bare land strata plan.




(4)

The property insurance must




(a)

be on the basis of full replacement value except in prescribed
circumstances, if any, and




(b)

insure against major perils, as set out in the regulations, and any
other perils specified in the bylaws.






Liability insurance required for strata corporation




150

(1)


The strata corporation must obtain and maintain liability insurance to
insure the strata corporation against liability for property damage
and bodily injury.




(2)

The insurance must be of at least the amount required in the
regulations.






Errors and omissions insurance




151


The strata corporation may obtain and maintain errors and omissions
insurance for council members against their liability and expenses for
errors and omissions made in the exercise of their powers and
performance of their duties as council members.






Optional strata corporation insurance




152


The strata corporation may obtain and maintain insurance in respect of
the following:




(a)

a peril or liability of the strata corporation that is not referred to
in section 149 or 150;




(b)

fixtures built or installed on a strata lot that were not built or
installed by the owner developer as part of the original construction
on the strata lot.






Insurable interest




153


The strata corporation has an insurable interest in any property
insured under section 149 or 152.






Review and report on insurance




154


The strata corporation must




(a)

review annually the adequacy of the strata corporation's insurance,




(b)

report on the insurance coverage at each annual general meeting, and




(c)

inform owners and tenants as soon as feasible of any material change
in the strata corporation's insurance coverage, including any increase
in an insurance deductible.






Named insureds




155


Despite the terms of the insurance policy, named insureds in a strata
corporation's insurance policy include




(a)

the strata corporation,




(b)

the owners and tenants from time to time of the strata lots shown on
the strata plan, and




(c)

the persons who normally occupy the strata lots.






Payment of insurance proceeds




156


Despite the terms of the insurance policy, in making a payment, other
than a payment arising from the liability of the strata corporation,
under the strata corporation's insurance policy, an insurer must make
the payment




(a)

to the order of the insurance trustee designated by the bylaws, or




(b)

if an insurance trustee is not designated, to the order of the strata
corporation to be held in trust until paid out under section 157.






Application of insurance money




157


Insurance money received under section 156 with respect to damaged
property must be used to repair or replace the damaged property
without delay unless the strata corporation decides not to make the
repair or replacement under section 159.






Insurance deductible




158

(1)


Subject to the regulations, the payment of an insurance deductible in
respect of a claim on the strata corporation's insurance is a common
expense to be contributed to by means of strata fees calculated in
accordance with section 99 (2) or 100 (1).




(2)

Subsection (1) does not limit the capacity of the strata corporation
to sue an owner in order to recover the deductible portion of an
insurance claim if the owner is responsible for the loss or damage
that gave rise to the claim.




(3)

Despite any other section of this Act or the regulations, strata
corporation approval is not required for a special levy or for an
expenditure from the contingency reserve fund to cover an insurance
deductible required to be paid by the strata corporation to repair or
replace damaged property, unless the strata corporation has decided
not to repair or replace under section 159.






Decision not to repair or replace




159

(1)


The strata corporation may, by a resolution passed by a 3/4 vote at an
annual or special general meeting held no later than 60 days
after the receipt of the money referred to in section 156, decide
not to repair or replace the damaged property.




(2)

Subject to section 160, if the strata corporation decides not to
repair or replace the damaged property, the insurance trustee or the
strata corporation that receives the payment under subsection (1)
of this section holds the money and any interest on the money in trust
for each person who has an interest in the money, including the holder
of a registered charge, and




(a)

must distribute the money according to each person's interest, or




(b)

if an application is made under section 160, must distribute the money
in accordance with the order made under that section.






Court orders




160

(1)


If the strata corporation decides not to repair or replace the damaged
property and the strata plan is not cancelled, any of the following
persons may apply to the Supreme Court for an order under this
section:




(a)

an owner;




(b)

the holder of a registered charge against a strata lot;




(c)

an insurer of land shown on the strata plan;




(d)

any other person the court considers an appropriate person.




(2)

On application by a person referred to in subsection (1), the court
may, by order, implement a scheme to do one or more of the following:




(a)

rebuild some or all of the damaged property or to make some other use
of the land;




(b)

provide for the interests of the owners and registered charge holders
on a just and equitable basis.




(3)

The court may make any order it considers advisable to give effect to
the scheme, including, without limitation, orders with respect to




(a)

the payment of insurance money received by the strata corporation,




(b)

the discharge of the liabilities of the strata corporation, the
persons liable to contribute to the discharge and their share of the
liability,




(c)

the amendment of the strata plan,




(d)

the transfer or conveyance of the interest of owners whose strata lots
have been wholly or partially destroyed to the other owners in
proportion to the unit entitlements of the strata lots of the other
owners, and for the compensation of the owners whose interests have
been transferred or conveyed,




(e)

the sale of land shown on the strata plan, or the sale of the common
assets, and




(f)

the distribution of any of the common assets of the strata
corporation.






Owner's insurance




161

(1)


Despite the

Insurance Act

or any other law, an owner may obtain and maintain insurance for any
or all of the following:




(a)

loss or damage to the owner's strata lot and the fixtures referred to
in section 149 (1) (d)




(i)

against perils that are not insured by the strata corporation, and




(ii)

for amounts that are in excess of amounts insured by the strata
corporation;




(b)

fixtures in the owner's strata lot, other than the fixtures referred
to in section 149 (1) (d);




(c)

improvements to fixtures referred to in section 149 (1) (d);




(d)

loss of rental value of the owner's strata lot in excess of insurance
obtained and maintained by the strata corporation;




(e)

liability for property damage and bodily injury, whether occurring on
the owner's strata lot or on the common property.




(2)

Despite this Act, the

Insurance Act

or any other law, an owner of a strata lot in a bare land strata plan
may obtain and maintain insurance on buildings or fixtures built or
installed on the strata lot.






Contribution




162


Despite the terms of the insurance policy,




(a)

neither the strata corporation's insurance policy nor an owner's
insurance policy is liable to be brought into contribution with
another policy unless the other policy is issued on the same property,
and




(b)

neither the strata corporation's insurance policy nor the owner's
insurance policy is "other insurance" in relation to another policy
unless the other policy is issued on the same property.




Contents
|


Part 1
|


Part 2
|


Part 3
|


Part 4
|


Part 5
|


Part 6
|


Part 7
|


Part 8
|

Part 9 |

Part 10
|


Part 11
|


Part 12
|


Part 13
|


Part 14
|


Part 15
|


Part 16
|


Part 17
|



Schedule of Standard Bylaws





