





View Complete Statute



Income Tax Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 215



Part 15 — Recovery Benefit





Definitions




240

(1)


In this Part:



"cohabiting spouse or common-law partner"

has the same meaning as in section 122.6 of the federal Act;



"commissioner"

means the Commissioner of Income Tax;



"determination"

includes a redetermination;



"eligible relation"

, in relation to an individual, means




(a)

the eligible spouse of the individual,




(b)

another individual who, on December 18, 2020, is the cohabiting spouse
or common-law partner of the individual, if that cohabiting spouse or
common-law partner is, but for section 241 (1) (c) to (e) and (4),
eligible for the recovery benefit, or




(c)

a child of the individual, if,




(i)

for the month of January or February 2021, the child is a dependent
child, within the meaning of the

Employment and Assistance Act

or the


Employment and Assistance for Persons with Disabilities Act


, of the individual, or




(ii)

on December 18, 2020,




(A)

the child is less than 19 years of age,




(B)

the child ordinarily resides with the individual,




(C)

the individual is the parent who primarily fulfils the responsibility
for the care and upbringing of the child and is not a shared-custody
parent in respect of the child, and




(D)

the child is not a person in respect of whom a special allowance under
the

Children's Special Allowances Act

(Canada) is payable for December 2020;



"eligible spouse"

, in relation to an individual, means, subject to subsection (2),
another individual who, for the month of January or February 2021, is
the spouse, within the meaning of the

Employment and Assistance Act

or the


Employment and Assistance for Persons with Disabilities Act


, of the individual;



"family income"

, in relation to an individual, means the total of




(a)

the individual's relevant income for the 2019 taxation year, and




(b)

the relevant income of the cohabiting spouse or common-law partner of
the individual for the 2019 taxation year, if the cohabiting spouse or
common-law partner is the individual's qualified relation for the
purposes of determining the amount of the recovery benefit under
section 241 (1);


"individual"
does not include a trust;



"qualified relation"

, in relation to an individual, means




(a)

another individual who, on December 18, 2020, is the cohabiting spouse
or common-law partner of the individual, if the cohabiting spouse or
common-law partner is, but for section 241 (1) (c) to (e) and (4),
eligible for the recovery benefit, or




(b)

a child of the individual, if, on December 18, 2020,




(i)

the child is less than 19 years of age,




(ii)

the child ordinarily resides with the individual,




(iii)

the individual is the parent who primarily fulfils the responsibility
for the care and upbringing of the child and is not a shared-custody
parent in respect of the child,




(iv)

the child is not eligible for the recovery benefit,




(v)

the individual does not have a cohabiting spouse or common-law partner
who is, but for section 241 (4), eligible for the recovery benefit,
and




(vi)

the child is not a person in respect of whom a special allowance under
the

Children's Special Allowances Act

(Canada) is payable for December 2020;



"recovery benefit"

means the recovery benefit under this Part, or under section 241 (1)
or (3) if specified, for the 2019 taxation year;



"relevant income"

, in relation to an individual for the 2019 taxation year, means,




(a)

if section 114 of the federal Act applies to the individual in respect
of the 2019 taxation year, the amount determined under section 114 (a)
of the federal Act in respect of the individual for the 2019 taxation
year,




(b)

if the individual was not resident in Canada at any time in the 2019
taxation year, the amount that would have been the individual's income
for the 2019 taxation year had the individual been resident in Canada
throughout the 2019 taxation year,




(c)

in any other case but subject to paragraph (d), the individual's
income for the 2019 taxation year, or




(d)

if the individual became bankrupt in 2019, the individual's income for
all taxation years that end in 2019, including the individual's income
for the taxation year before, during and after the period of
bankruptcy and any amount determined under paragraph (a), (b) or (c);



"shared-custody parent"

has the same meaning as in section 122.6 of the federal Act except
that the reference to "qualified dependant" in that section is to be
read as referring to a child who, on December 18, 2020, is less than
19 years of age.




(2)

For the purposes of this Part, an individual is not an eligible spouse
if information required by the commissioner in respect of that
individual as an eligible spouse is not received by the commissioner
on or before June 30, 2021.






Eligibility for recovery benefit




241

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), an individual is eligible for the recovery
benefit if the individual meets all the following requirements:




(a)

the individual is resident in British Columbia on December 18, 2020;




(b)

the individual, on December 18, 2020,




(i)

is at least 19 years of age, or




(ii)

is less than 19 years of age and is




(A)

a parent residing with the individual's child who is a qualified
relation of the individual, or




(B)

a cohabiting spouse or common-law partner of another individual;




(c)

the individual




(i)

has filed a return of income under section 150 of the federal Act for
the 2019 taxation year, or




(ii)

becomes resident in Canada after December 31, 2019;




(d)

if the individual has a cohabiting spouse or common-law partner on
December 18, 2020,




(i)

the cohabiting spouse or common-law partner has filed a return of
income under section 150 of the federal Act for the 2019 taxation
year,




(ii)

the individual has claimed a deduction under section 118 (1) (a) of
the federal Act for the 2019 taxation year in respect of the
cohabiting spouse or common-law partner, or




(iii)

the cohabiting spouse or common-law partner was not resident in Canada
at any time in the 2019 taxation year;




(e)

the individual has applied for the recovery benefit in accordance with
section 243 of this Act.




(2)

An individual is not eligible for the recovery benefit under
subsection (1) if the individual




(a)

is eligible for the recovery benefit under subsection (3),




(b)

is, on December 18, 2020, a person described in section 149 (1) (a) or
(b) of the federal Act,




(c)

is deceased before December 18, 2020, or




(d)

is confined to a prison or similar institution for a period of at
least 90 days that includes December 18, 2020.




(3)

An individual is eligible for the recovery benefit if




(a)

the individual receives any of the following for the month of January
or February 2021:




(i)

income assistance under the

Employment and Assistance Act

, other than a child who receives assistance under the authority of
the Child in the Home of a Relative Program Transition Regulation,
B.C. Reg. 48/2010;




(ii)

a Provincial senior's supplement under the

Employment and Assistance Act

;




(iii)

disability assistance under the


Employment and Assistance for Persons with Disabilities Act


, other than a child who receives assistance under the authority of
the Child in the Home of a Relative Program Transition Regulation,
B.C. Reg. 48/2010;




(iv)

hardship assistance under the

Employment and Assistance Act

or the


Employment and Assistance for Persons with Disabilities Act


, and




(b)

the commissioner receives, on or before June 30, 2021, information
regarding the receipt of an amount described in paragraph (a) by the
individual.




(4)

Despite subsections (1) and (3) but subject to subsection (5), if an
individual is the eligible spouse or cohabiting spouse or common-law
partner of another individual on December 18, 2020 and both of those
individuals would be, but for this subsection, eligible for the
recovery benefit, only the individual that the commissioner designates
is eligible for the recovery benefit.




(5)

If an individual or the cohabiting spouse or common-law partner of the
individual has a child referred to in paragraph (c) (i) of the
definition of "eligible relation", subsection (4) of this section does
not apply unless the individual and the cohabiting spouse or
common-law partner are the eligible spouses of each other.




(6)

If a child is an eligible relation of more than one individual, or is
an eligible relation of an individual and the qualified relation of
another individual, and those individuals would be, but for this
subsection, eligible for a recovery benefit with the child as the
eligible relation or qualified relation, only the individual that the
commissioner designates is eligible for the amount of the recovery
benefit with the child as an eligible relation or qualified relation.






Amount of recovery benefit




242

(1)


The amount of the recovery benefit for an individual who is eligible
for the recovery benefit under section 241 (1) is the greatest of the
following:




(a)

if an individual has no qualified relation, the positive amount, if
any, equal to $500 less 2% of the amount by which the individual's
relevant income for the 2019 taxation year exceeds $62 500;




(b)

if an individual has a qualified relation, the positive amount, if
any, equal to $1 000 less 2% of the amount by which the
individual's family income exceeds $125 000;




(c)

$10, if




(i)

an individual has no qualified relation and the individual's relevant
income for the 2019 taxation year is equal to or less than $87 500, or




(ii)

an individual has a qualified relation and the individual's family
income is equal to or less than $175 000.




(2)

The amount of the recovery benefit for an individual who is eligible
for the recovery benefit under section 241 (3) is as follows:




(a)

if an individual has no eligible relation, $500;




(b)

if an individual has an eligible relation, $1 000.






Application for tax credit




243

(1)


An individual who wishes to claim the recovery benefit under section
241 (1) must file with the commissioner an application for the
recovery benefit.




(2)

If the individual has a cohabiting spouse or common-law partner who is
a qualified relation on December 18, 2020, the individual must claim
that cohabiting spouse or common-law partner as the individual's
qualified relation in the application.




(3)

The application must be filed in the form and manner, and contain the
information, required by the commissioner.




(4)

An application under this section must be filed on or before June 30,
2021.






Determination of tax credit




244

(1)


The commissioner must examine an application and other information or
records filed under section 243 and determine whether the individual
is eligible for the recovery benefit under section 241 (1) or (3) and
the amount of the recovery benefit.




(2)

The commissioner may determine whether an individual is eligible for
the recovery benefit under section 241 (3) and the amount of the
recovery benefit.




(3)

The commissioner may redetermine




(a)

whether an individual is eligible for the recovery benefit under
section 241 (1) or (3), or




(b)

the amount of the recovery benefit.




(4)

Subject to subsection (5), the commissioner must send to an individual
a notice of determination after determining whether the individual is
eligible for the recovery benefit and, if eligible, the amount of the
recovery benefit.




(5)

The commissioner is not required to send to an individual a notice of
determination if




(a)

there is no change in the amount of the recovery benefit for the
individual after the redetermination, or




(b)

the commissioner designates under section 241 (4) the cohabiting
spouse or common-law partner of the individual as eligible for the
recovery benefit.




(6)

A notice may be in the form and sent in the manner determined by the
commissioner.




(7)

The commissioner




(a)

is not bound by an application or other information or records
supplied by or on behalf of, or in respect of an individual, and




(b)

may determine the amount of recovery benefit despite the supply of the
application or other information or records by or on behalf of, or in
respect of the individual.






Payment of recovery benefit




245

(1)


An overpayment on account of an individual's liability under this Act
for the 2019 taxation year is deemed to have arisen if the
commissioner determines the individual is eligible for the recovery
benefit.




(2)

If an overpayment is deemed to have arisen under subsection (1), the
Provincial minister must pay, out of the consolidated revenue fund,
the amount of the overpayment.




(3)

The amount of the overpayment is the amount of the recovery benefit
determined under section 242.




(4)

Despite subsection (3) of this section or section 16 of the

Financial Administration Act

,




(a)

if after a redetermination the amount of the recovery benefit
increases by less than $10, the amount of the increase in the
overpayment payable is deemed to be nil, or




(b)

a payment of an amount related to this Part of less than $10 must not
be made, in any other case.




(5)

If an amount is paid under this Part to an individual and, after
payment, the commissioner determines that some or all of the amount is
to be paid under this Part to the cohabiting spouse or common-law
partner of the individual, the amount determined by the commissioner
as to be paid to the cohabiting spouse or common-law partner of the
individual is deemed to have been paid to the cohabiting spouse or
common-law partner of the individual.




(6)

If an individual is eligible for the recovery benefit under section
241 (1), the amount payable under subsection (2) of this section must
be paid by electronic funds transfer.




(7)

Despite the

Financial Administration Act

and the Interest on Overdue Accounts Payable Regulation, B.C. Reg.
215/83, no interest is payable by the government with respect to the
amount payable under subsection (2).






Notice to commissioner




246

(1)


An individual who receives the recovery benefit further to being
eligible under section 241 (1) must file a notice with the
commissioner if




(a)

the individual is notified of a change in the individual's relevant
income for the 2019 taxation year that would result in a reduction in
the amount of the individual's recovery benefit,




(b)

the individual has a cohabiting spouse or common-law partner who is a
qualified relation on December 18, 2020 and the individual is notified
of a change in the cohabiting spouse or common-law partner's relevant
income for the 2019 taxation year that would result in a reduction in
the amount of the individual's recovery benefit, or




(c)

there is a change in who is claimed as the qualified relation of the
individual.




(2)

The individual must file the notice with the commissioner on or before
the later of




(a)

September 30, 2021, and




(b)

the date that is 90 days after the individual is notified of the
change referred to in subsection (1) (a) or (b).




(3)

The notice must be filed in the form and manner, and contain the
information, required by the commissioner.




(4)

In addition to the notice, the individual must file with the notice
any other information or records required by the commissioner.






Determination period




247


The commissioner may determine eligibility for the recovery benefit,
or determine and impose any penalty payable under this Part, within
the following time periods:




(a)

the later of the following:




(i)

3 years after the date the initial notice of determination is sent
under section 244
[determination of tax credit]
;




(ii)

the end of the day that is one year after the day that is the earlier
of




(A)

the day that the commissioner is notified under section 246 (2), and




(B)

the day on which the commissioner receives notification from the
taxing authority under this Act that the individual or the
individual's cohabiting spouse or common-law partner has been issued a
notice of assessment that has a change relevant to the calculation of
the individual's recovery benefit;




(b)

at any time,




(i)

if any individual has made any misrepresentation or committed any
fraud




(A)

in filing an individual's application, or




(B)

in filing information or records under this Part,




(ii)

to give effect to a waiver or cancellation of a penalty under section
251
[waiver or cancellation of penalty]
, or




(iii)

to give effect to a decision of the Provincial minister under section
255
[appeal to Provincial minister]
or a decision of a court under section 256
[appeal to court]
.






Overpayment cannot be attached or assigned




248


An overpayment payable under section 245




(a)

cannot be charged or given as security,




(b)

cannot be assigned,




(c)

cannot be garnished or attached,




(d)

is exempt from execution or seizure, and




(e)

cannot be retained by way of set-off under the

Financial Administration Act

.






Imposition of administrative penalty




249

(1)


The commissioner may determine and impose a penalty on an individual
who is liable to a penalty under section 250.




(2)

If the commissioner imposes a penalty on an individual, the
commissioner must send to the individual a notice of determination
that specifies the amount of the penalty imposed.






Administrative penalties




250

(1)


In this section,
"excess payment"
means




(a)

a payment under this Part for which the individual is not eligible, or




(b)

an amount by which the recovery benefit that would have been claimed
by the individual, if the amount of the recovery benefit had been
determined on the basis of the information provided in the
application, return, report, notice or other record, exceeds the
recovery benefit for which the individual is eligible.




(2)

An individual who knowingly or under circumstances amounting to gross
negligence in the carrying out of any duty or obligation imposed under
this Part makes, or participates in, assents to or acquiesces in the
making of, a statement or omission in an application, return, report,
notice or other record filed with the commissioner that results in an
excess payment is liable to a penalty equal to the greater of




(a)

$100, and




(b)

the amount equal to 300% of the excess payment.




(3)

An individual who fails to file with the commissioner a notice in
accordance with section 246 is liable, in respect of each failure, to
a penalty of $10 for each day after which the notice was required to
be filed under that section, to a maximum of $250.






Waiver or cancellation of penalty




251


The commissioner may at any time waive or cancel all or part of any
penalty otherwise payable by an individual under this Part.






Interest payable to government under this Part




252

(1)


If an amount is deemed under section 258
[individual to repay amount]
to be an amount payable by an individual, the individual is liable to
pay interest on the amount from the date the amount to be repaid was
paid under this Part to the individual until the date of payment.




(2)

An individual must pay to the government interest on a penalty imposed
under this Part as follows:




(a)

in the case of a penalty under section 250 (2)
[gross negligence]
, from the date on which the application, return, report, notice or
other record was filed until the date of payment;




(b)

in the case of a penalty under section 250 (3)
[failure to file notice]
, from the date of the notice of determination that specifies the
amount of the penalty imposed until the date of payment.




(3)

Interest payable to the government under this Part must be calculated
at the prescribed rate and in the prescribed manner.






No interest if full payment within 30 days




253


Despite any other provision of this Part, if




(a)

a notice of determination or statement of account sent to an
individual by the commissioner specifies an amount that is owing to
the government under this Part by the individual, and




(b)

the individual, within 30 days after the date on the notice of
determination or statement of account, pays the amount owing in full,


interest is not payable on the amount owing from the date on the
notice of determination or statement of account until the date of
payment.






Waiver or cancellation of interest




254


The commissioner may at any time waive or cancel all or part of any
interest otherwise payable by an individual under this Part.






Appeal to Provincial minister




255

(1)


An individual may appeal the following to the Provincial minister:




(a)

a determination of eligibility for or the amount of the recovery
benefit under section 244 for which a notice of determination is
issued;




(b)

an imposition of a penalty under section 249.




(2)

An appeal under subsection (1)




(a)

must be made after April 20, 2021 and on or before the later of




(i)

September 30, 2021, and




(ii)

the date that is 90 days after the date on the notice of determination
in respect of the matter being appealed, and




(b)

must be made by serving a notice of appeal on the Provincial minister
by mailing the notice to that minister.




(3)

The appellant must set out in the notice of appeal a statement of all
material facts and the reasons in support of the appeal.




(4)

On receipt of all relevant information from the commissioner and the
notice of appeal, the Provincial minister must




(a)

confirm, reverse or vary the commissioner's decision or determination,
and




(b)

notify the appellant in writing of the minister's decision.




(5)

The Provincial minister may authorize any officer of the ministry to
perform and exercise duties imposed and powers conferred on the
Provincial minister by this section as may in the Provincial
minister's opinion be conveniently performed or exercised by that
officer.




(6)

The performance or exercise by the officer authorized under subsection
(5) of the duties or powers referred to in that subsection is of the
same effect as if the duties or powers were performed or exercised by
the Provincial minister.






Appeal to court




256

(1)


A decision of the Provincial minister under section 255 (4) in respect
of an appeal to the Provincial minister under section 255 (1) may be
appealed to the Supreme Court by way of a petition proceeding.




(2)

The Supreme Court Civil Rules relating to petition proceedings, other
than Rule 18-3, apply to appeals under this section.




(3)

A petition must be filed in the court registry within 90 days after
the date of the Provincial minister's decision.




(4)

In a petition filed under this section, the government must be
designated "Her Majesty the Queen in right of the Province of British
Columbia".




(5)

Within 14 days after the filing of a petition under this section, the
petition must be served on the government in accordance with section 8
of the

Crown Proceeding Act

.




(6)

An appeal under this section is a new hearing that is not limited to
the evidence and issues that were before the Provincial minister.




(7)

The court may




(a)

dismiss the appeal,




(b)

allow the appeal,




(c)

vary the decision from which the appeal is made, or




(d)

refer the decision back to the commissioner for reconsideration.






Irregularities




257


A determination made under this Part must not be varied or disallowed
by a court because of an irregularity, informality, omission or error
on the part of a person in the observation of any directory provision
up to the date of the notice of determination.






Individual to repay amount




258


If it appears from an inspection, audit, examination or investigation
or from other information available to the commissioner that an amount
has been paid under this Part to an individual who is not entitled to
receive that amount, the amount paid is deemed to be an amount that
became payable by the individual to the government on the day on which
the amount was paid to the individual.






Liability for amounts owing to government




259


An individual is liable to pay to the government the following:




(a)

the amount by which the recovery benefit that was paid to the
individual under this Part exceeds the recovery benefit that the
individual is entitled to receive;




(b)

the amount of any penalties imposed on the individual under section
249
[imposition of administrative penalty]
;




(c)

the amount of any interest payable by the individual to the government
under this Part.






Collection of amounts owing to government




260

(1)


Division 2 of Part 7
[Recovery of Amounts Owing]
of the

Speculation and Vacancy Tax Act

applies for the purpose of collecting an amount that is owing to the
government under this Part, except that, in addition to any other
necessary modifications, references in that Division to the
"administrator" are to be read as references to the "commissioner"
under this Part.




(2)

Neither the giving of a notice of appeal by a person nor a delay in
the hearing of an appeal




(a)

affects the date an amount that is owing to the government under this
Part and that is the subject matter of the appeal is payable under
this Part,




(b)

affects the amount of interest payable on an amount that is owing to
the government under this Part and that is the subject matter of the
appeal, or




(c)

delays the collection of an amount that is owing to the government
under this Part and that is the subject matter of the appeal, or any
interest payable under this Part on that amount.






Powers of audit




261


Without limiting any provision of this Act or the federal Act, for the
purpose of determining eligibility for the tax credit under this Part,
the commissioner has powers equivalent to the federal minister under
sections 231 to 231.5 and 231.7 of the federal Act, and for that
purpose those sections apply.






Delegation of powers




262

(1)


The commissioner may authorize any other officer of the ministry to
perform and exercise duties imposed and powers conferred on the
commissioner by this Part as may in the commissioner's opinion be
conveniently performed or exercised by that officer.




(2)

The performance or exercise by the officer authorized under subsection
(1) of the duties or powers referred to in that subsection is of the
same effect as if the duties or powers were performed or exercised by
the commissioner.






Application of other provisions




263

(1)


A tax credit under this Part is not to be considered in applying any
of the following provisions:




(a)

section 31
[instalment payments: farmers and fishers]
;




(b)

section 32
[instalment payments: other individuals]
;




(c)

section 34
[returns, payments and interest]
;




(d)

section 35
[refund for tax credits]
;




(e)

section 36
[amount on which instalment calculated]
;




(f)

section 37

[failure to file return or corporate return and failure to provide
information]

;




(g)

section 39
[penalty for late or deficient instalments]
;




(h)

section 39.1
[misrepresentation of tax matter by third party]
;




(i)

section 40
[refunds]
.




(2)

The following provisions do not apply for the purposes of this Part,
except to the extent provided in this Part:




(a)

section 1 (8.1)
[interpretation]
;




(b)

section 29
[returns of income and assessments of tax]
;




(c)

section 30
[reassessment and amended return]
;




(d)

section 38

[failure to report income, false statement or omission and burden of
proof on appeal]

;




(e)

section 41
[objections to assessments and extension of time]
;




(f)

section 42
[appeal by taxpayer]
;




(g)

section 43
[reply]
;




(h)

section 44
[procedure]
;




(i)

section 45
[irregularities, extension of time and private hearings]
;




(j)

section 46
[court practice]
;




(k)

section 47

[administration, interest, garnishment and proceedings to collect]

;




(l)

section 49
[debts to Her Majesty]
;




(m)

section 50
[certificates]
;




(n)

section 51
[warrant]
;




(o)

section 52
[acquisition of debtor's property]
;




(p)

section 53
[payment of money seized from tax debtor]
;




(q)

section 54
[seizure of goods]
;




(r)

section 55
[taxpayer leaving Canada or defaulting]
;




(s)

section 59

[inspections, privilege, information returns and corporate
execution]

;




(t)

section 61
[offence and penalty]
;




(u)

section 62
[further offences]
;




(v)

section 70
[payments on account]
.






Offences — recovery benefit




264


A person who does any of the following commits an offence:




(a)

makes, or participates in, assents to or acquiesces in the making of,
a false or deceptive statement in a notice, application or other
record required to be filed or given under this Part;




(b)

destroys, alters, mutilates, hides or otherwise disposes of a record
to evade payment of an amount to be paid to the government under this
Part;




(c)

makes or uses, or participates in, assents to or acquiesces in the
making or use of, a record in a false or deceptive manner in order to
obtain the recovery benefit;




(d)

wilfully, in any manner, attempts to obtain or claim an increased
recovery benefit to which the person is not entitled, or in an amount
that is greater than that amount of recovery benefit to which the
person is entitled under this Part;




(e)

conspires with any person to do anything described in paragraphs (a)
to (d);




(f)

fails to comply with any of sections 231 to 231.5 of the federal Act,
as they apply for the purposes of this Part.






Penalties




265


An individual who commits an offence under section 264 is liable to




(a)

a fine of at least $1 000 and not exceeding $25 000,




(b)

imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months, or




(c)

both the fine and imprisonment referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b)
of this section.






Limitation period for prosecution




266


The time limit for laying an information for an offence under this
Part is 6 years after the date when the act or omission that is
alleged to constitute the offence occurred.






When documents are filed with or given to commissioner or Provincial
minister




267

(1)


If, under this Part, a document must or may be filed with or given to
the commissioner or Provincial minister, the document is conclusively
deemed to be filed or given on the date it is received by the
commissioner or minister, as the case may be.




(2)

If, under this Part, a document must or may be given to the Provincial
minister, the document is conclusively deemed to have been given if
delivered to the office of the deputy Provincial minister.






Administration




268

(1)


Despite any collection agreement, the Provincial minister must
administer and enforce this Part.




(2)

Despite section 69 (3)
[collection agreement]
, the federal minister is not authorized to use, perform or exercise
any of the powers, duties or discretions of the Provincial minister
under this Part.






Power to make regulations




269

(1)


Without limiting section 48 (1) and (2)
[power to make regulations]
, the Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations as follows:




(a)

prescribing interest rates and the manner of calculating interest for
the purposes of this Part;




(b)

defining a word or expression used but not defined in this Part.




(2)

A regulation made under this section may be made retroactive to
December 18, 2020 or a later date, and if made retroactive is deemed
to have come into force on the specified date.






Repeal by regulation




270


After June 30, 2024, the Lieutenant Governor in Council may repeal
this Part by regulation.




Contents
|


Part 1
|


Part 2
|


Part 3
|


Part 4
|


Part 5
|


Part 6
|


Part 7
|


Part 8
|


Part 9
|


Part 10
|


Part 11
|


Part 12
|


Part 13
|


Part 14
|

Part 15 |

Part 16




