





View Complete Statute



Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 165



Part 6 — General Provisions





Delegation by the head of a public body




66

(1)


The head of a public body may delegate to any person any duty, power
or function of the head of the public body under this Act, except the
power to delegate under this section.




(2)

A delegation under subsection (1) must be in writing and may contain
any conditions or restrictions the head of the public body considers
appropriate.




(3)

[Repealed 2011-17-24.]






Consultative committee




67


The minister responsible for this Act may establish a consultative
committee to make recommendations to the minister about the operation
of this Act.






Annual report of minister




68


The minister responsible for this Act must prepare an annual report on
its administration and lay the report before the Legislative Assembly
as soon as possible.






Personal information directories, privacy impact assessments and
information-sharing agreements




69

(1)


In this section:



"information-sharing agreement"

means an agreement between a public body and one or more of the
following:




(a)

another public body;




(b)

a government institution subject to the

Privacy Act

(Canada);




(c)

an organization subject to the

Personal Information Protection Act

or the


Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act


(Canada);




(d)

a public body, government institution or institution as defined in
applicable provincial legislation having the same effect as this Act;




(e)

a person or a group of persons;




(f)

a prescribed entity,


that sets conditions on the collection, use or disclosure of personal
information by the parties to the agreement;



"personal information bank"

means an aggregation of personal information that is organized or
retrievable by the name of an individual or by an identifying number,
symbol or other particular assigned to an individual;



"privacy impact assessment"

means an assessment that is conducted by a public body to determine if
a current or proposed enactment, system, project, program or activity
meets or will meet the requirements of Part 3 of this Act.




(2)

The minister responsible for this Act must maintain and publish a
personal information directory to provide information about records in
the custody or under the control of ministries of the government of
British Columbia and about the use of those records.




(3)

The personal information directory must include a summary that meets
the requirements of the minister responsible for this Act of the
following information:




(a)

the personal information banks that are in the custody or under the
control of each ministry of the government of British Columbia;




(b)

the information-sharing agreements into which each ministry of the
government of British Columbia has entered;




(c)

the privacy impact assessments referred to in subsection (5);




(d)

any other information the minister responsible for this Act considers
appropriate.




(4)

The head of a ministry must correct as soon as possible any errors or
omissions in the portion of the personal information directory that
relates to the ministry, and provide the corrected information to the
minister responsible for this Act.




(5)

The head of a ministry must conduct a privacy impact assessment and
must do so in accordance with the directions of the minister
responsible for this Act.




(5.1)

The head of a ministry, with respect to a proposed enactment, system,
project, program or activity, must submit, during the development of
the proposed enactment, system, project, program or activity, the
privacy impact assessment to the minister responsible for this Act for
the minister's review and comment.




(5.2)

If the minister responsible for this Act receives a privacy impact
assessment under subsection (5.1) respecting a common or integrated
program or activity, the minister must submit, during the development
of the proposed enactment, system, project, program or activity, the
privacy impact assessment to the commissioner for the commissioner's
review and comment.




(5.3)

The head of a public body that is not a ministry must conduct a
privacy impact assessment and must do so in accordance with the
directions of the minister responsible for this Act.




(5.4)

The head of a public body that is not a ministry, with respect to a
proposed system, project, program or activity, must submit, during the
development of the proposed system, project, program or activity, the
privacy impact assessment, if it addresses a common or integrated
program or activity, to the commissioner for the commissioner's review
and comment.




(5.5)

The head of a public body must notify the commissioner of a common or
integrated program or activity at an early stage of developing the
initiative, program or activity.




(5.6)

[Repealed 2021-39-37.]




(5.7)

The head of a ministry must prepare an information-sharing agreement
in accordance with the directions of the minister responsible for this
Act.




(6)

The head of a public body that is not a ministry must make available
for inspection and copying by the public a directory that lists the
public body's personal information banks and includes the following
information with respect to each personal information bank:




(a)

its title and location;




(b)

a description of the kind of personal information and the categories
of individuals whose personal information is included;




(c)

the authority for collecting the personal information;




(d)

the purposes for which the personal information was obtained or
compiled and the purposes for which it is used or disclosed;




(e)

the categories of persons who use the personal information or to whom
it is disclosed;




(f)

information required under subsection (7).




(7)

The minister responsible for this Act may require one or more public
bodies, or classes of public bodies, that are not ministries of the
government of British Columbia




(a)

to provide additional information for the purposes of subsection (6),
and




(b)

to comply with one or more of the subsections in this section as if
the public body were a ministry of the government of British Columbia.




(8)

[Repealed 2021-39-37.]




(9)

The minister responsible for this Act, in consultation with the
commissioner, must establish an information-sharing code of practice
that makes recommendations respecting how personal information is to
be collected, used and disclosed under this Act.




(10)

The minister responsible for this Act may, under subsection (5)
or (5.3), give different directions for different categories of
personal information.






Public information regarding health information banks




69.1

(1)


In this section:



"health care body"

has the same meaning as in section 1 of the


E-Health (Personal Health Information Access and Protection of
Privacy) Act


;



"health information bank"

means a health information bank and a ministry database within the
meaning of the


E-Health (Personal Health Information Access and Protection of
Privacy) Act


;



"health information-sharing agreement"

means an agreement under section 14 or 19 of the


E-Health (Personal Health Information Access and Protection of
Privacy) Act


;



"official responsible"

in relation to a health care body means




(a)

the minister, for a health care body that is a ministry,




(b)

the head of the regional health board, for a health care body that




(i)

is a regional health board designated under section 4 (1) of the

Health Authorities Act

, or




(ii)

reports to or is funded by the regional health board, and




(c)

the chief executive officer of the Provincial Health Services
Authority, for a health care body that is




(i)

the Provincial Health Services Authority, or




(ii)

a society that reports to the Provincial Health Services Authority.




(2)

The personal information directory under section 69 must include
information about health information banks of health care bodies and
about the use of the information in those health information banks.




(3)

For the purposes of subsection (2), the personal information directory
must include the following information in accordance with the
requirements of the minister responsible for this Act:




(a)

the provisions of the order under section 3
[establishment or designation of health information banks]
of the

E-Health (Personal Health Information Access and Protection of
Privacy) Act

in relation to each health information bank that is in the custody or
under the control of each health care body;




(b)

a summary of the health information-sharing agreements into which each
health care body has entered;




(c)

any other information the minister responsible for this Act considers
appropriate.




(4)

The official responsible must




(a)

provide to the minister responsible for this Act the information
required for the purposes of subsection (2), and




(b)

correct as soon as possible any errors or omissions in the portion of
the personal information directory that relates to the health care
body, and provide the corrected information to the minister
responsible for this Act.




(5)

A ministry that is a health care body must conduct a privacy impact
assessment, and must do so in accordance with the directions of the
minister responsible for this Act, in relation to




(a)

a health information bank in its custody or under its control, and




(b)

a health information-sharing agreement to which it is a party.




(6)

The minister responsible for this Act may, under subsection (5), give
different directions for different categories of personal information.






Provincial identity information services provider




69.2

(1)


The minister responsible for this Act may designate a public body as a
provincial identity information services provider.




(2)

A provincial identity information services provider, by exercising its
powers respecting the collection, use and disclosure of information,
may provide the following services:




(a)

identifying an individual;




(b)

verifying the identity of an individual;




(c)

updating personal identity information about an individual;




(d)

issuing a physical or an electronic credential to an individual;




(e)

managing the information associated with a physical or an electronic
credential;




(f)

any other service related to personal identity information that the
minister responsible for this Act considers appropriate.




(3)

The minister responsible for this Act may give directions to a
provincial identity information services provider or a public body
respecting




(a)

the type and quantity of personal identity information required to
identify, or verify the identity of, individuals seeking access to
government services,




(b)

the provision to individuals of physical and electronic credentials
for use in accessing government services,




(c)

the privacy and security of personal identity information that is
collected, used or disclosed under this Act,




(d)

the format in which personal identity information is collected, used
or disclosed under this Act, and




(e)

the circumstances in which particular types of personal identity
information may or may not be collected, used or disclosed in relation
to services provided under subsection (2).




(4)

The minister, under subsection (3), may give different directions for
different categories of personal identity information, personal
identity information services and government services.






Certain records available without request




70

(1)


The head of a public body must make available to the public, without a
request for access under this Act, the following records if they were
created for the purpose of interpreting an enactment or for the
purpose of administering a program or activity that affects the
public:




(a)

manuals, instructions or guidelines issued to the officers or
employees of the public body;




(b)

substantive rules or policy statements adopted by the public body.




(2)

The head of a public body may sever from a record made available under
this section any information the head of the public body would be
entitled under Part 2 of this Act to refuse to disclose to an
applicant.




(3)

If information is severed from a record, the record must include a
statement of




(a)

the fact that information has been severed from the record,




(b)

the nature of the information severed from the record, and




(c)

the reason for severing the information from the record.




(4)

The head of a public body may require a person who asks for a copy of
a record made available under this section to pay a fee to the public
body.






Head of public body must establish categories of records available
without request




71

(1)


Subject to subsection (1.1), the head of a public body must establish
categories of records that are in the custody or under the control of
the public body and are available to the public without a request for
access under this Act.




(1.1)

The head of a public body must not establish a category of records
that contain personal information unless the information




(a)

may be disclosed under section 33, or




(b)

would not constitute, if disclosed, an unreasonable invasion of the
personal privacy of the individual the information is about.




(1.2)

Section 22 (2) to (4) applies to the determination of unreasonable
invasion of personal privacy under subsection (1.1) (b) of this
section.




(1.3)

The head of a public body may sever from a record made available under
this section any information the head of the public body would be
entitled under Part 2 of this Act to refuse to disclose to an
applicant.




(1.4)

If information is severed from a record, the record must include a
statement of




(a)

the fact that information has been severed from the record,




(b)

the nature of the information severed from the record, and




(c)

the reason for severing the information from the record.




(2)

The head of a public body may require a person who asks for a copy of
an available record to pay a fee to the public body.




(3)

Subsection (1) does not limit the discretion of the government of
British Columbia or a public body to disclose records that do not
contain personal information.






Minister may establish categories of records available
without request




71.1

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), the minister responsible for this Act may
establish categories of records that are in the custody or under the
control of one or more ministries and are available to the public
without a request for access under this Act.




(2)

The minister responsible for this Act must not establish a category of
records that contain personal information unless the information




(a)

may be disclosed under section 33, or




(b)

would not constitute, if disclosed, an unreasonable invasion of the
personal privacy of the individual the information is about.




(3)

Section 22 (2) to (4) applies to the determination of unreasonable
invasion of personal privacy under subsection (2) (b) of this section.




(4)

The minister responsible for this Act may require one or more
ministries to disclose a record that is within a category of records
established under subsection (1) of this section or section 71 (1).




(5)

If required to disclose a record under subsection (4), a ministry must
do so in accordance with any directions issued relating to the
disclosure by the minister responsible for this Act.




(6)

The head of a public body may sever from a record made available under
this section any information the head of the public body would be
entitled under Part 2 of this Act to refuse to disclose to an
applicant.




(7)

If information is severed from a record, the record must include a
statement of




(a)

the fact that information has been severed from the record,




(b)

the nature of the information severed from the record, and




(c)

the reason for severing the information from the record.






Repealed




72


[Repealed 2002-13-14.]






Protection of public body from legal suit




73


No action lies and no proceeding may be brought against the
government, a public body, the head of a public body, an elected
official of a public body or any person acting on behalf of or under
the direction of the head of a public body for damages resulting from




(a)

the disclosure, or failure to disclose, in good faith of all or part
of a record under this Act or any consequences of that disclosure or
failure to disclose, or




(b)

the failure to give any notice required under this Act if reasonable
care is taken to give the required notice.






Recovery of personal information




73.1

(1)


If the head of a public body has reasonable grounds to believe that
personal information in the custody or under the control of the public
body is in the possession of a person or an entity not authorized by
law to possess the information, the head of the public body may issue
a written notice demanding that person or entity to do either of the
following within 20 calendar days of receiving the notice:




(a)

return the information to the public body or, in the case of
electronic records, securely destroy the information and confirm in
writing the date and the means by which the information was securely
destroyed;




(b)

respond in writing and declare why the person or entity considers that




(i)

the information was not in the custody or under the control of the
public body when the person or entity acquired possession of the
information, or




(ii)

the person or entity is authorized by law to possess the information.




(2)

The written notice referred to in subsection (1) must




(a)

identify, with reasonable specificity, the personal information
claimed to be in the custody or under the control of the public body
and in the possession of the person or entity not authorized by law to
possess the information, and




(b)

state that the public body may undertake legal action to recover the
personal information if the person or entity fails to respond in
writing within the required time or does not adequately demonstrate
that




(i)

the information was not in the custody or under the control of the
public body when the person or entity acquired possession of the
information, or




(ii)

the person or entity is authorized by law to possess the information.






Court order for return of personal information




73.2

(1)


If a person or an entity that receives a written notice and demand
from the public body under section 73.1 (1) fails to




(a)

return the described personal information or, in the case of
electronic records, to securely destroy the information and confirm in
writing the date and the means by which the information was securely
destroyed,




(b)

respond to the notice and demand within the required time, or




(c)

adequately demonstrate that




(i)

the personal information was not in the custody or under the control
of the public body when the person or entity acquired possession of
the information, or




(ii)

the person or entity is authorized by law to possess the personal
information,


the head of the public body may ask the Attorney General to petition
the superior court in the jurisdiction in which the personal
information is located for an order requiring the return of the
personal information.




(2)

If, after a hearing, the court determines that the personal
information is in the possession of a person or an entity not
authorized by law to possess the personal information and the public
body is entitled to custody or control of the personal information,
the court must order the personal information to be delivered to the
head of the public body.




(3)

The court may issue any order necessary to protect the personal
information from destruction, alteration or transfer by the person or
entity in possession of the personal information and may order that
the personal information be surrendered into the custody of the head
of the public body until the court reaches a decision on the petition.




(4)

This section does not limit any remedy otherwise available to a public
body, or other person by law.






Repealed




74-74.1


[Repealed 2021-39-42.]






Fees




75

(1)


The head of a public body may require an applicant who makes a request
under section 5 to pay to the public body the following:




(a)

a prescribed application fee;




(b)

prescribed fees for the following services:




(i)

locating and retrieving the record;




(ii)

producing the record;




(iii)

preparing the record for disclosure, except for time spent severing
information from the record;




(iv)

shipping and handling the record;




(v)

providing a copy of the record.




(2)

Subsection (1) (b) (i) does not apply to the first 3 hours spent on a
request.




(3)

Subsection (1) does not apply to a request for the applicant's own
personal information.




(4)

If an applicant is required to pay fees for services under subsection
(1) (b), the head of the public body




(a)

must give the applicant a written estimate of the total fees before
providing the services, and




(b)

may require the applicant to pay a deposit in an amount set by the
head of the public body.




(5)

If the head of a public body receives an applicant's written request
to excuse payment of all or part of the fees required under subsection
(1) (b), the head of the public body may excuse payment, if, in the
head of the public body's opinion,




(a)

the applicant cannot afford the payment or for any other reason it is
fair to excuse payment, or




(b)

the record relates to a matter of public interest, including the
environment or public health or safety.




(6)

The head of a public body must respond to a request under subsection
(5) in writing and within 20 days after receiving the request.




(7)

The fees that prescribed categories of applicants are required to pay
for services under subsection (1) (b) may differ from the fees other
applicants are required to pay for the services but may not be greater
than the actual costs of the services.






Power to make regulations




76

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
section 41 of the

Interpretation Act

.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations as follows:




(a)

prescribing procedures to be followed in making, transferring and
responding to requests under this Act;




(b)

permitting prescribed categories of applicants to make requests under
this Act orally instead of in writing;




(c)

setting standards, including time limits, to be observed by officers
or employees of a public body in fulfilling the duty to assist
applicants;




(d)

prescribing for the purposes of section 18 the categories of sites
that are considered to have heritage or anthropological value;




(e)

authorizing the disclosure of information relating to the mental or
physical health of individuals to medical or other experts to
determine, for the purposes of section 19, if disclosure of that
information could reasonably be expected to result in grave and
immediate harm to the safety of or the mental or physical health of
those individuals;




(f)

prescribing procedures to be followed or restrictions considered
necessary with respect to the disclosure and examination of
information referred to in paragraph (e);




(g)

prescribing special procedures for giving individuals access to
personal information about their mental or physical health;




(h)

prescribing the classes of individuals who may act for minors,
deceased persons or any other individuals under this Act and
regulating the manner in which, and the extent to which, any rights or
powers of individuals under this Act may be exercised on their behalf;




(h.1)

respecting the written documentation that confirms that a program or
activity is a common or integrated program or activity;




(i)

requiring public bodies to provide to the minister responsible for
this Act information that relates to its administration or is required
for preparing the minister's annual report;




(i.1)

prescribing an application fee and fees for services;




(j)

limiting the fees that different categories of persons are required to
pay under this Act;




(k)

exempting any class of public body from a regulation made under this
subsection;




(l)

authorizing, for the purposes of section 12 (3) and (4), a local
public body to hold meetings of its elected officials, or of its
governing body or a committee of the governing body, to consider
specified matters in the absence of the public unless another Act




(i)

expressly authorizes the local public body to hold meetings in the
absence of the public, and




(ii)

specifies the matters that may be discussed at those meetings;




(m)

providing for the retention and disposal of records by a public body
if the

Information Management Act

does not apply to the public body;




(m.1)

defining any word or expression used but not defined in this Act;




(n)

for any purpose contemplated by this Act.




(2.1)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council, after consultation with the
commissioner, may make regulations as follows:




(a)

for the purposes of section 26 (d);




(b)

for the purposes of section 36.1,




(i)

establishing how data-linking programs must be conducted, and




(ii)

exempting a data-linking program or class of data-linking program from
regulations made under subparagraph (i) of this paragraph.




(3) and (4)

[Repealed 2002-13-16.]




(5)

A regulation made under subsection (1), (2) or (2.1) may provide
differently for different classes of public bodies.






Ministerial regulation making power




76.1

(1)


The minister responsible for this Act may, by regulation, amend
Schedule 2 to do one or more of the following:




(a)

add to it any agency, board, commission, corporation, office or other
body




(i)

of which any member, director or officer is appointed by the
Lieutenant Governor in Council or a minister,




(ii)

of which a controlling interest in the share capital is owned by the
government of British Columbia or any of its agencies or a public
body,




(iii)

that performs functions under an enactment, or




(iv)

if the minister responsible for this Act determines that it would be
in the public interest to add the agency, board, commission,
corporation, office or other body to Schedule 2;




(b)

designate or change the designation of the head of a public body;




(c)

remove from it an agency, board, commission, corporation, office or
other body that




(i)

no longer exists, or




(ii)

no longer meets the criteria established by paragraph (a).




(2)

The minister responsible for this Act may, by regulation, amend
Schedule 3 to do one or more of the following:




(a)

add to it the name of the governing body of a profession or occupation
if




(i)

any member of that body is appointed by the Lieutenant Governor in
Council, a minister or an Act, or




(ii)

the profession or occupation is governed under an Act;




(b)

remove from it a governing body that




(i)

no longer exists, or




(ii)

no longer meets the criteria established by paragraph (a).




(3)

The minister responsible for this Act may make regulations
establishing measures that must be taken by a public body respecting
programs, projects and systems in which the public body discloses
personal information outside of Canada.






Power to make bylaws




77


A local public body, by bylaw or other legal instrument by which the
local public body acts,




(a)

must designate a person or group of persons as the head of the local
public body for the purposes of this Act, and




(b)

[Repealed 2011-17-30.]




(c)

may set any fees the local public body requires to be paid under
section 75.






Appropriation




78


In the absence of an appropriation for the purpose under another Act,
expenditures incurred in connection with the administration of this
Act may be paid out of the consolidated revenue fund.






Repealed




79


[Repealed 2021-39-46.]






Review of Act




80

(1)


At least once every 6 years, a special committee of the Legislative
Assembly must begin a comprehensive review of this Act and must submit
a report respecting this Act to the Legislative Assembly within one
year after the date of the appointment of the special committee.




(2)

A report submitted under subsection (1) may include any recommended
amendments to this Act or any other Act.




(3)

For the purposes of subsection (1), the first 6 year period begins on
October 4, 1997.






Right to disclose preserved




81


A public body that, before October 4, 1993, disclosed names, addresses
and drivers' licence numbers to the Tuberculous and Chest Disabled
Veterans' Association may continue, despite section 33, to
disclose that information to the association if it undertakes not to
use the information except for the purposes for which it used that
information before that date.




Contents
|


Part 1
|


Part 2
|


Part 3
|


Part 4
|


Part 5
|


Part 5.1
|

Part 6 |


Schedule 1

|



Schedule 2

|



Schedule 3





