





View Complete Statute



Land Title Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 250



Part 3 — Registration and Its Effect





Unregistered instrument does not pass estate




20

(1)


Except as against the person making it, an instrument purporting to
transfer, charge, deal with or affect land or an estate or interest in
land does not operate to pass an estate or interest, either at law or
in equity, in the land unless the instrument is registered in
compliance with this Act.




(2)

An instrument referred to in subsection (1) confers on every person
benefited by it and on every person claiming through or under the
person benefited, whether by descent, purchase or otherwise, the right




(a)

to apply to have the instrument registered, and




(b)

in proceedings incidental or auxiliary to registration, to use the
names of all parties to the instrument, whether or not a party has
since died or become legally incapacitated.




(3)

Subsection (1) does not apply to a lease or agreement for lease for a
term not exceeding 3 years if there is actual occupation under the
lease or agreement.






Unregistered instruments executed and taking effect before July 1,
1905




21


Instruments executed before and taking effect before
July 1, 1905, purporting to transfer, charge, deal with or
affect land or an estate or interest in it, unless registered before
that date, are not receivable by a court or the registrar as evidence
or proof of the title of a person to the land, as against the title of
another person to that land, registered on or after
July 1, 1905, except in an action before the court
questioning the registered title to the land on the ground of fraud in
which the registered owner has participated or colluded.






Operation of instrument as from time of registration




22


An instrument purporting to transfer, charge, deal with or affect land
or an estate or interest in land passes the estate or interest, either
at law or in equity, created or covered by the instrument at the time
of its registration, irrespective of the date of its execution.






Effect of indefeasible title




23

(1)


In this section,
"court"
includes a person or statutory body having, by law or consent of
parties, authority to hear, receive and examine evidence.




(2)

An indefeasible title, as long as it remains in force and uncancelled,
is conclusive evidence at law and in equity, as against the Crown and
all other persons, that the person named in the title as registered
owner is indefeasibly entitled to an estate in fee simple to the land
described in the indefeasible title, subject to the following:




(a)

the subsisting conditions, provisos, restrictions, exceptions and
reservations, including royalties, contained in the original grant or
contained in any other grant or disposition from the Crown;




(b)

a federal or Provincial tax, rate or assessment at the date of the
application for registration imposed or made a lien or that may after
that date be imposed or made a lien on the land;




(c)

a municipal charge, rate or assessment at the date of the application
for registration imposed or that may after that date be imposed on the
land, or which had before that date been imposed for local
improvements or otherwise and that was not then due and payable,
including a charge, rate or assessment imposed by a public body having
taxing powers over an area in which the land is located;




(d)

a lease or agreement for lease for a term not exceeding 3 years
if there is actual occupation under the lease or agreement;




(e)

a highway or public right of way, watercourse, right of water or other
public easement;




(f)

a right of expropriation or to an escheat under an Act;




(g)

a caution, caveat, charge, claim of builder's lien, condition, entry,
exception, judgment, notice, pending court proceeding, reservation,
right of entry, transfer or other matter noted or endorsed on the
title or that may be noted or endorsed after the date of the
registration of the title;




(h)

the right of a person to show that all or a portion of the land is, by
wrong description of boundaries or parcels, improperly included in the
title;




(i)

the right of a person deprived of land to show fraud, including
forgery, in which the registered owner has participated in any degree;




(j)

a restrictive condition, right of reverter, or obligation imposed on
the land by the

Forest Act

, that is endorsed on the title.




(3)

After an indefeasible title is registered, a title adverse to or in
derogation of the title of the registered owner is not acquired by
length of possession.




(4)

Despite subsection (3), in the case only of the first indefeasible
title registered, it is void against the title of a person adversely
in actual possession of and rightly entitled to the land included in
the indefeasible title at the time registration was applied for and
who continues in possession.






Title by prescription abolished




24


All existing methods of acquiring a right in or over land by
prescription are abolished and, without limiting that abolition, the
common law doctrine of prescription and the doctrine of the lost
modern grant are abolished.






Protection of registered owner against actions for recovery of land




25

(1)


In this section,
"courts"
includes a person or statutory body having, by law or consent of
parties, authority to hear, receive and examine evidence.




(2)

An action of ejectment or other action for the recovery of land for
which an indefeasible title has been registered must not be commenced
or maintained against the registered owner named in the indefeasible
title, except in the case of




(a)

a mortgagee or encumbrancee as against a mortgagor or encumbrancer in
default,




(b)

a lessor as against a lessee in default,




(c)

[Repealed 2005-35-13.]




(d)

a person deprived of land improperly included in an indefeasible title
of other land by wrong description of boundaries or parcels,




(e)

2 or more indefeasible titles having been registered under this Act in
respect of the same land, the registered owner claiming under the
instrument that was registered first,




(f)

a right arising or partly arising after the date of the application
for registration of the title under which the registered owner claims,
including, without limitation,




(i)

the right of a purchaser claiming under a contract with the registered
owner for the sale of the land, and




(ii)

the right of a beneficiary if the registered owner is a trustee, and




(g)

a right arising under section 23 (2).




(3)

In any case other than those enumerated by way of exception in
subsection (2), the production of a subsisting state of title
certificate must be held in all courts to be an absolute bar and
estoppel to an action referred to in subsection (2) against the
registered owner named in the certificate, despite a rule of law or
equity to the contrary.






Void instruments — interest acquired or not acquired




25.1

(1)


Subject to this section, a person who purports to acquire land or an
estate or interest in land by registration of a void instrument does
not acquire any estate or interest in the land on registration of the
instrument.




(2)

Even though an instrument purporting to transfer a fee simple estate
is void, a transferee who




(a)

is named in the instrument, and




(b)

in good faith and for valuable consideration, purports to acquire the
estate,


is deemed to have acquired that estate on registration of that
instrument.




(3)

Even though a registered instrument purporting to transfer a fee
simple estate is void, a transferee who




(a)

is named in the instrument,




(b)

is, on the date that this section comes into force, the registered
owner of the estate, and




(c)

in good faith and for valuable consideration, purported to acquire the
estate,


is deemed to have acquired that estate on registration of that
instrument.






Registration of a charge




26

(1)


A registered owner of a charge is deemed to be entitled to the estate,
interest or claim created or evidenced by the instrument in respect of
which the charge is registered, subject to the exceptions, registered
charges and endorsements that appear on or are deemed to be
incorporated in the register.




(2)

Registration of a charge does not constitute a determination by the
registrar that the instrument in respect of which the charge is
registered creates or evidences an estate or interest in the land or
that the charge is enforceable.






Notice given by registration of charge




27

(1)


The registration of a charge gives notice, from the date and time the
application for the registration was received by the registrar, to
every person dealing with the title to the land affected, of




(a)

the estate or interest in respect of which the charge has been
registered, and




(b)

the contents of the instrument creating the charge so far as it
relates to that estate or interest,

but not otherwise.



(2)

A payment made by a mortgagor under a registered mortgage, or by a
purchaser under a registered agreement for sale or subagreement for
sale, is not a dealing with the title to the land affected.




(3)

A transferee of a mortgage, or of a vendor's interest in an agreement
for sale, takes subject to the equities and to the subsisting state of
accounts between, respectively, mortgagor and mortgagee, or vendor and
purchaser.






Priority of charges based on priority of registration




28


If 2 or more charges appear entered on the register affecting the same
land, the charges have, as between themselves, but subject to a
contrary intention appearing from the instruments creating the
charges, priority according to the date and time the respective
applications for registration of the charges were received by the
registrar, and not according to the respective dates of execution of
the instruments.






Effect of notice of unregistered interest




29

(1)


For the purposes of this section,
"registered owner"
includes a person who has made an application for registration and
becomes a registered owner as a result of that application.




(2)

Except in the case of fraud in which the person has participated, a
person contracting or dealing with or taking or proposing to take from
a registered owner




(a)

a transfer of land, or




(b)

a charge on land, or a transfer or assignment or subcharge of the
charge,


is not, despite a rule of law or equity to the contrary, affected by a
notice, express, implied, or constructive, of an unregistered interest
affecting the land or charge other than




(c)

an interest, the registration of which is pending,




(d)

a lease or agreement for lease for a period not exceeding 3 years
if there is actual occupation under the lease or agreement, or




(e)

the title of a person against which the indefeasible title is void
under section 23 (4).




(3)

Subject to section 49 of the

Personal Property Security Act

, a person contracting with respect to, dealing with or taking from or
proposing to take from a registered owner, an estate or interest in
land, or a transfer or assignment of an estate or interest in land, is
not affected by a financing statement registered under that Act
whether or not the person had express, constructive or implied notice
or knowledge of the registration.




(4)

The fact that the person who is contracting or dealing with or taking
or proposing to take from a registered owner under subsection (2) had
knowledge of a financing statement registered under the

Personal Property Security Act

, or that the person could have obtained knowledge of the financing
statement by searching the personal property registry established
under that Act, is not evidence of fraud or bad faith for the purposes
of subsection (2).




(5)

A person contracting with respect to, dealing with or taking from or
proposing to take from a registered owner, an estate or interest in
land, or a transfer or assignment of an estate or interest in land, is
not affected by a transparency declaration or transparency report
filed with the administrator under the

Land Owner Transparency Act

, or by reported information or publicly accessible information made
available for search under that Act, whether or not the person had
express, constructive or implied notice or knowledge of the
transparency declaration, transparency report, reported information or
publicly accessible information.




(6)

The fact that the person who is contracting or dealing with or taking
or proposing to take from a registered owner under subsection (2) had
knowledge of a transparency declaration, transparency report, reported
information or publicly accessible information referred to in
subsection (5), or that the person could have obtained knowledge of
the transparency declaration, transparency report, reported
information or publicly accessible information by carrying out a
search authorized under the

Land Owner Transparency Act

, is not evidence of fraud or bad faith for the purposes of subsection
(2).






Notice of unregistered interest as affecting registered owner of
charge




30

(1)


In this section,
"filing"
includes a claim of lien filed under the

Builders Lien Act

but does not include




(a)

a notice filed under the
Sale of Goods on Condition Act
, R.S.B.C. 1979, c. 373, or




(b)

a filing under the

Manufactured Home Act

.




(2)

In subsection (3),
"claim"
includes a certificate of pending litigation and a caveat, other than
a caveat lodged by the registrar.




(3)

Under this Act,




(a)

a registered owner of a charge enforcing that owner's charge by the
exercise of the power of sale contained in it, or in an action for
foreclosure,




(b)

a purchaser under the power of sale, or under a sale pursuant to an
order of the court in an action for foreclosure,




(c)

a court in which an action to enforce a charge by foreclosure is
pending, and




(d)

a registrar considering an application founded on a sale under such a
power of sale, or on a foreclosure decree, or on a sale pursuant to an
order of the court in an action for foreclosure,


are not bound by or deemed to have notice of an interest, right or
claim, the registration, filing, deposit or lodging of which is not
applied for until after




(e)

a notice of the intended exercise of the power of sale, or




(f)

a certificate of pending litigation in a foreclosure action

has been filed or registered.



(4)

On the filing of a notice under subsection (3), the registrar must
endorse it and its filing number in the register.




(5)

Subsection (3) applies to a registered owner who is, or who is a
successor in title to, a vendor or subvendor and who has registered a
certificate of pending litigation in respect of an action for the
cancellation of a registered agreement for sale of the land and who
obtains an order for cancellation.




(6)

Nothing in this section affects the right of a person claiming through
a mortgagor or mortgagee, or through a vendor or purchaser, while the
action is pending, to file a pleading or other document in the action.






Priority of caveat or certificate of pending litigation




31


If a caveat has been lodged or a certificate of pending litigation has
been registered against the title to land,




(a)

the caveator or plaintiff, if that person's claim is subsequently
established by a judgment or order or admitted by an instrument duly
executed and produced, is entitled to claim priority for that person's
application for registration of the title or charge so claimed over a
title, charge or claim, the application for registration, deposit or
filing of which is made after the date of the lodging of the caveat or
registration of the certificate of pending litigation, and




(b)

if proof of service of notice of claim to priority on the subsequent
applicant is provided to the registrar before registration is
effected, the registration of the title or charge claimed by the
caveator or plaintiff relates back to and takes effect from the time
of the lodging of the caveat or registration of the certificate of
pending litigation, and that time, as well as the time of the
application for registration of the title or charge so claimed, must
be endorsed on the register.






Validity of registered voluntary conveyance




32

(1)


An instrument executed in good faith and registered before the
execution of a transfer to, and before the creation of a binding
contract for the transfer to, a subsequent purchaser for value from
the same grantor of the same land or any part of it, merely because of
the absence of a valuable consideration in the instrument, is not and
must not be considered to be void as against the subsequent purchaser
for value or a person claiming by, from or under the subsequent
purchaser for value.




(2)

Nothing in this section makes valid an instrument that is for any
reason, other than or in addition to the absence of a valuable
consideration, void under any Act or law.






Equitable mortgage or lien not registrable




33


An equitable mortgage or lien created by the deposit of a duplicate
indefeasible title or other instrument, whether or not accompanied by
a memorandum of deposit, is not registrable.






Registration of indefeasible title by court order




34

(1)


Except as provided in section 180, the registrar must not register an
indefeasible title in favour of a person under a direction contained
in an order of a court unless the order declares that it has been
proved to the satisfaction of the court on investigation that the
title of the person designated in the direction is a good safe holding
and marketable title.




(2)

Subsection (1) applies to the registration of a charge.






Admissibility of instruments




35


An instrument the execution of which is proved in the manner required
by this Act, together with the affidavit, if any, by which the
execution is proved, must be received in evidence in all courts
without further proof of execution.






Completion of registration




36

(1)


The registrar, after registration of title in fee simple or a charge
or a cancellation of a charge, must, unless the director otherwise
orders, make on an instrument deposited in support of the application
for registration or cancellation or, if no instrument is deposited, on
the application, an endorsement in the form approved by the director,
which must be received in all courts as conclusive evidence of the
registration of the instrument or application.




(2)

If an application affects records that are stored by electronic means,
the registration of the instrument or application is complete when the
particulars of it have been entered, other than as a pending
application, in the appropriate part of the register.






Registration effective from time of application




37

(1)


An instrument or application so registered is deemed to have been
registered and to have become operative for all purposes in respect of
the title, charge or cancellation claimed by the application for
registration, and according to the intent of the instrument or
application, as of the date and time when the application was received
by the registrar.




(2)

An indefeasible title stored by electronic means, when entered in the
register, other than as a pending application, is deemed to be
registered and take effect as of the date and time when the
application for the title was received by the registrar.




(3)

An indefeasible title not stored by electronic means, when signed by
the registrar, is deemed to be registered and take effect as of the
date and time when the application for the title was received by the
registrar.




(4)

A certificate of charge, when signed by the registrar, is deemed to be
issued and take effect as of the date and time when the application
for the certificate was received by the registrar.






Registrar to create official record of instruments and documents




38

(1)


In this section:


"duplicate"
means a counterpart of the original instrument or document made by the
registrar in the usual and ordinary course of business from the
original instrument or document using any chemical, mechanical or
electronic technique, including, without limitation, microphotographic
reproduction and electronic recording on an optical disk, that




(a)

is capable of recording all significant details of the original
instrument or document, and




(b)

does not permit additions, deletions or changes from the original
instrument or document;



"original instrument or document"

means the instrument or document that is filed, deposited or
registered under this Act.




(2)

The registrar must make and maintain an official record of all
instruments and documents filed, deposited or registered under this
Act, and the official record may consist of the original instrument or
document or the duplicate, or both.




(3)

The registrar must store the official record made under subsection (2)
either in the land title office or in some other location approved by
the Board of Directors.




(4)

A copy taken from an original instrument or document, or from a
duplicate, that is




(a)

made by the registrar, and




(b)

certified by the registrar to be a true copy of the original
instrument or document


is admissible in a court to the same extent as the original instrument
or document.




(5)

A certification of the registrar under subsection (4) is conclusive
proof that the copy, and the duplicate if the copy is made from a
duplicate, was made by the registrar in the usual and ordinary course
of business using procedures and techniques that




(a)

are capable of recording all significant details of the original
instrument or document, and




(b)

do not permit additions, deletions or changes from the original
instrument or document.




(6)

Despite section 166, if an original instrument or document filed under
this Act is




(a)

a marriage certificate or a death certificate, or




(b)

a trust instrument referred to in section 180 (4),


the registrar may, at the time the original instrument or document is
filed, create a duplicate and return the original to the person who
applied to file it.




Contents
|


Part 1
|


Part 2
|

Part 3 |

Part 4
|


Part 5
|


Part 6
|


Part 7
|


Part 8
|


Part 9
|


Part 10
|


Part 10.1
|


Part 11
|


Part 12
|


Part 13
|


Part 14
|


Part 15
|


Part 16
|


Part 17
|


Part 18
|


Part 19
|


Part 19.1
|


Part 20
|


Part 21
|


Part 22
|


Part 23
|


Part 24
|



Part 24.01

|


Part 24.1
|


Part 24.2
|


Part 25
|



Schedule 1

|



Schedule 2





