





View Complete Statute



Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 165



Part 5 — Reviews and Complaints



Division 1 — Reviews by the Commissioner





Right to ask for a review




52

(1)


A person who makes a request to the head of a public body, other than
the commissioner or the registrar under the

Lobbyists Transparency Act

, for access to a record or for correction of personal information may
ask the commissioner to review any decision, act or failure to act,
other than to require an application fee, of the head that relates to
that request, including any matter that could be the subject of a
complaint under section 42 (2).




(2)

A third party notified under section 24 of a decision to give access
may ask the commissioner to review any decision made about the request
by the head of a public body, other than the commissioner or the
registrar under the

Lobbyists Transparency Act

.






How to ask for a review




53

(1)


To ask for a review under this Division, a written request must be
delivered to the commissioner.




(2)

A request for a review of a decision of the head of a public body must
be delivered within




(a)

30 days after the person asking for the review is notified of the
decision, or




(b)

a longer period allowed by the commissioner.




(3)

The failure of the head of a public body to respond in time to a
request for access to a record is to be treated as a decision to
refuse access to the record, but the time limit in subsection (2) (a)
for delivering a request for review does not apply.






Notifying others of review




54


On receiving a request for a review, the commissioner must give a copy
to




(a)

the head of the public body concerned, and




(b)

any other person that the commissioner considers appropriate.






Order for severing of information from records




54.1

(1)


After the head of a public body has responded to a request under
section 5 and a request for review of that response has been received
under section 52, the commissioner may, at any time, by order,




(a)

confirm that the head of the public body has failed to sever
information from the records that are the subject of the review, as
required by this Act, and




(b)

require the head of the public body to sever information from the
records in accordance with the directions and within the period set
out in the order.




(2)

The commissioner may not set a period for severing information from a
record under subsection (1) that is less than 30 days after the date a
copy of the order is given to the head of the public body.






Mediation may be authorized




55


The commissioner may authorize a mediator to investigate and to try to
settle a matter under review.






Inquiry by commissioner




56

(1)


If the matter is not referred to a mediator or is not settled under
section 55, the commissioner may conduct an inquiry and decide
all questions of fact and law arising in the course of the inquiry.




(2)

An inquiry under subsection (1) may be conducted in private.




(3)

The person who asked for the review, the head of the public body
concerned and any person given a copy of the request for a review must
be given an opportunity to make representations to the commissioner
during the inquiry.




(4)

The commissioner may decide




(a)

whether representations are to be made orally or in writing, and




(b)

whether a person is entitled to be present during or to have access to
or to comment on representations made to the commissioner by another
person.




(5)

The person who asked for the review, the head of the public body
concerned and any person given a copy of the request for a review may
be represented at the inquiry by counsel or an agent.




(6)

Subject to subsection (8), an inquiry into a matter under review must
be completed within 90 days after receiving the request for the
review.




(7)

If the commissioner has required a person to attempt to resolve a
matter under section 44 (3.1), the commissioner may defer beginning or
may adjourn an investigation under section 42 or an inquiry under this
section to enable the resolution of the matter in the way required
under section 44 (3.1).




(8)

The period of an adjournment or deferral under subsection (7) must not
be included for the purpose of calculating a deadline under subsection
(6).






Burden of proof




57

(1)


At an inquiry into a decision to refuse an applicant access to all or
part of a record, it is up to the head of the public body to prove
that the applicant has no right of access to the record or part.




(2)

However, if the record or part that the applicant is refused access to
contains personal information about a third party, it is up to the
applicant to prove that disclosure of the information would not be an
unreasonable invasion of the third party's personal privacy.




(3)

At an inquiry into a decision to give an applicant access to all or
part of a record containing information that relates to a third party,




(a)

in the case of personal information, it is up to the applicant to
prove that disclosure of the information would not be an unreasonable
invasion of the third party's personal privacy, and




(b)

in any other case, it is up to the third party to prove that the
applicant has no right of access to the record or part.






Commissioner's orders




58

(1)


On completing an inquiry under section 56, the commissioner must
dispose of the issues by making an order under this section.




(2)

If the inquiry is into a decision of the head of a public body to give
or to refuse to give access to all or part of a record, the
commissioner must, by order, do one of the following:




(a)

require the head to give the applicant access to all or part of the
record, if the commissioner determines that the head is not authorized
or required to refuse access;




(b)

either confirm the decision of the head or require the head to
reconsider it, if the commissioner determines that the head is
authorized to refuse access;




(c)

require the head to refuse access to all or part of the record, if the
commissioner determines that the head is required to refuse access.




(3)

If the inquiry is into any other matter, the commissioner may, by
order, do one or more of the following:




(a)

confirm that a duty imposed under this Act has been performed or
require that a duty imposed under this Act be performed;




(b)

confirm or reduce the extension of a time limit under section 10 (1);




(c)

confirm, excuse or reduce a fee, or order a refund, in the appropriate
circumstances, including if a time limit is not met;




(d)

confirm a decision not to correct personal information or specify how
personal information is to be corrected;




(e)

require a public body or service provider to stop collecting, using or
disclosing personal information in contravention of this Act, or
confirm a decision of a public body or service provider to collect,
use or disclose personal information;




(f)

require the head of a public body to destroy personal information
collected in contravention of this Act.




(4)

The commissioner may specify any terms or conditions in an order made
under this section.




(5)

The commissioner must give a copy of an order made under this section
to all of the following:




(a)

the person who asked for the review;




(b)

the head of the public body concerned;




(b.1)

any service provider to whom the order is directed;




(c)

any person given notice under section 54;




(d)

the minister responsible for this Act.






Duty to comply with orders




59

(1)


Subject to subsection (1.1), not later than 30 days after being given
a copy of an order of the commissioner, the head of the public body
concerned or the service provider to whom the order is directed, as
applicable, must comply with the order unless an application for
judicial review of the order is brought before that period ends.




(1.1)

If the commissioner gives the head of a public body a copy of an order
made under section 54.1, the head of the public body must comply with
the order within the period set out in the order, unless an
application for judicial review of the order is brought before that
period ends.




(2)

Subject to subsection (3), if an application for judicial review is
brought before the end of the period referred to in subsection (1) or
set out in an order given under section 54.1, the order of the
commissioner is stayed for 120 days, beginning on the date the
application is brought, unless a court makes an order shortening or
extending the stay.




(3)

If a date for hearing the application for judicial review is set
before the expiration of the stay of the commissioner's order referred
to in subsection (2), the stay of the commissioner's order is extended
until the judicial review is completed or the court makes an order
shortening the stay.






Enforcement of orders of commissioner




59.01

(1)


Subject to subsection (3), the commissioner may file a certified copy
of an order made under section 54.1 or 58 with the Supreme Court.




(2)

Subject to subsection (3), a party affected, or a person designated,
by an order made under section 58 may file a certified copy of the
order with the Supreme Court.




(3)

An order may be filed under subsection (1) or (2) only if




(a)

the order is not, or is no longer, the subject of an application for
judicial review, or the subject of an appeal or further appeal, as the
case may be, from a decision on judicial review in respect of the
order,




(b)

the date by which a person must comply with the order under section 59
(1) or (1.1), as the case may be, has occurred, and




(c)

the period for commencing an appeal or further appeal, as the case may
be, from a decision on judicial review in respect of the order has
expired.




(4)

An order filed under this section has the same force and effect, and
all proceedings may be taken on it, as if it were a judgment of the
Supreme Court.




Division 2 — Investigations and Reviews by Adjudicator





References to commissioner




59.1


In this Division,
"commissioner"
includes the registrar under the

Lobbyists Transparency Act

.






Adjudicator to investigate complaints and review decisions




60

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may designate a person who is a
judge of the Supreme Court to act as an adjudicator and




(a)

to investigate complaints made against the commissioner as head of a
public body with respect to any matter referred to in section 42 (2),




(b)

to determine, if requested under section 60.1, whether the
commissioner as head of a public body is authorized to disregard a
request made under section 5 or 29, and




(c)

to review, if requested under section 62, any decision, act or failure
to act of the commissioner as head of a public body.




(2)

An adjudicator may retain the services of any persons necessary to
assist the adjudicator in performing the adjudicator's functions under
this Act.




(3)

The government may pay out of the consolidated revenue fund,




(a)

to an adjudicator, the expenses a judge is entitled to receive under
section 57 (3) of the

Judges Act

(Canada) while acting as an adjudicator, and




(b)

to a person whose services are retained under subsection (2),
remuneration for those services.






Adjudicator may authorize commissioner to disregard requests




60.1


The commissioner may ask an adjudicator designated under section 60 to
authorize the commissioner as head of a public body to disregard a
request made under section 5 or 29.






Powers, duties and protections of adjudicator




61

(1)


For the purposes of section 60, an adjudicator has the powers, duties
and functions given to the commissioner by sections 42 (2) (a) to (d),
43 to 44.2 and 47 (1), (2) (a) and (3) to (5).




(2)

Sections 45, 46, 48 and 50 apply for the purposes of an investigation,
inquiry or review by an adjudicator.




(3)

Section 47 (2.1) to (2.3) applies to an adjudicator and the staff of
an adjudicator.






Right to ask for a review




62

(1)


A person who makes a request to the commissioner as head of a public
body for access to a record or for correction of personal information
may ask an adjudicator to review any decision, act or failure to act
of the commissioner as head of a public body that relates to the
request, including any matter that could be the subject of a complaint
under section 42 (2) (a) to (d).




(2)

A third party notified under section 24 of a decision to give access
may ask an adjudicator to review any decision made about the request
by the commissioner as head of a public body.






How to ask for a review




63

(1)


To ask for a review under this Division, a written request must be
delivered to the minister responsible for this Act.




(2)

A request for a review of a decision of the commissioner as head of a
public body must be delivered within




(a)

30 days after the person asking for the review is notified of the
decision, or




(b)

a longer period allowed by the adjudicator.




(3)

Section 53 (3) applies if the commissioner as head of a public body
fails to respond in time to a request for access to a record.






Notifying others of review




64


On receiving a request for a review, the minister responsible for this
Act must promptly forward the request to an adjudicator and must give
a copy to




(a)

the commissioner, and




(b)

any other affected person.






Conduct and outcome of the review




65

(1)


An adjudicator has the powers, duties and functions given to the
commissioner by sections 54.1, 55 and 56 (1), (4) and (7), and
sections 56 (2), (3), (5), (6) and (8) and 57 apply to an inquiry
conducted by an adjudicator.




(2)

On completing an inquiry, an adjudicator has the same duty to dispose
of the issues, the same powers to make orders and the same duty to
notify others of those orders, as the commissioner has under section
58 (1), (2), (3) (a) to (d), (4) and (5).




(3)

Sections 59 and 59.01 apply to an order of an adjudicator.




Contents
|


Part 1
|


Part 2
|


Part 3
|


Part 4
|

Part 5 |

Part 5.1
|


Part 6
|



Schedule 1

|



Schedule 2

|



Schedule 3





