





View Complete Statute



School Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 412



Part 8 — Finance



Division 1 — Provincial Funding





Definitions




106.1


In this Division:


"board"
includes a francophone education authority;



"educational program"

includes a francophone educational program;



"number of students"

means the number of full time or equivalent of full time students;


"student"
means a person enrolled in an educational program provided by a board
to whom instruction in the educational program is required to be
provided free of charge under section 82 (1) or (2.1) but does not
include a person who is enrolled in a Provincial resource program.






Provincial funding for boards




106.2


On or before March 15 of each year, the minister must establish and
announce the amount of Provincial funding to be paid to boards in the
next fiscal year for the delivery and support of educational programs.






Operating grants to boards




106.3

(1)


The minister must determine the amount of the operating grant to each
board from the Provincial funding based on the following:




(a)

by multiplying




(i)

a per student funding amount determined by the minister, and




(ii)

the number of students, estimated by the board under subsection (2)
and approved by the minister under subsection (3) or estimated by the
minister under subsection (4), who may be enrolled in educational
programs provided by that board;




(b)

other formulas and amounts determined by the minister and announced to
the boards by March 15 of each year.




(2)

A board must submit to the minister on or before February 15 of each
year an estimate of the number of students who may be enrolled in
educational programs provided by the board in the next school year.




(3)

The minister may approve or reject the estimate submitted under
subsection (2).




(4)

If the minister rejects the estimate submitted under subsection (2),
the minister must estimate the number of students who may be enrolled
in educational programs provided by that board in the next school
year.




(5)

For the purposes of determining the amount of the operating grant
under subsection (1) (a), the minister may




(a)

classify students under a classification system established by the
minister,




(b)

estimate the number of students in each class referred to in paragraph
(a) who may be enrolled in educational programs provided by the board,




(c)

establish a maximum number of students for a class referred to in
paragraph (a) that the minister will include in the determination of
the number of students for that class under subsection (1), and




(d)

establish different per student funding amounts for the different
classes of students referred to in paragraph (a).




(6)

The minister may amend an operating grant to a board, for all or part
of the fiscal year,




(a)

if the number of students enrolled in educational programs provided by
the board is different than the estimate approved under subsection (3)
or the estimate under subsection (4) or (5),




(b)

by amending the per student funding amount under subsection (1) (a)
(i) or (5) (d), or




(c)

if, in the opinion of the minister, the operating grant must be
amended.




(7)

Subsections (2) and (3) do not apply for the purposes of the 2002-2003
fiscal year.






Targeted grant




106.4

(1)


The minister may, in respect of an operating grant, provide a
direction to a board specifying




(a)

an amount or a percentage of the operating grant to the board that is
a targeted grant for the fiscal year,




(b)

the manner in which that board must budget, spend and account for the
targeted grant for the fiscal year,




(c)

programs or services the board must provide in respect of the targeted
grant and to whom the board must provide those programs or services,
and




(d)

a minimum amount or percentage of the targeted grant that the board
must budget, spend and account for in respect of a program or service
referred to in paragraph (c).




(2)

The minister may vary a direction provided to a board under this
section.






Repealed




107-108


[Repealed 2002-53-36.]






Repealed




109


[Repealed B.C. Reg. 169/97.]




Division 2 — Establishment of Board Budgets





Financial information




110

(1)


On or before March 15 of each year, a board must submit to the
minister




(a)

the board's estimate of the debt service surplus or deficit it will
experience in that fiscal year, and




(b)

any other information that the minister requests respecting revenue or
other financial matters.




(2)

On or before March 30 of each year, the minister must prepare, approve
and provide to each board the estimate of the board's debt service
expenses for the next fiscal year.




(3)

[Repealed 2002-53-37.]






Preparation of annual budget




111

(1)


In this section:



"estimated expenditures"

means the estimated expenditures plus any operating deficit that the
board must fund in the fiscal year;



"estimated revenues"

means the estimated revenues plus appropriated operating reserves.




(2)

The board must prepare an annual budget in the form and containing the
content specified by the minister.




(3)

Subject to subsection (4), estimated expenditures in the annual budget
must not exceed estimated revenues.




(4)

The estimated expenditures in the annual budget, other than the debt
service expenses estimate referred to in section 110, may exceed the
estimated revenues if the board has held a referendum under section
112 and the referendum approved the amount in excess of the estimated
revenues.






Referendum




112

(1)


A board may, by resolution passed at a public meeting of the board at
least 2 weeks before the referendum is held, authorize the
holding of a referendum to obtain the approval of the electors for any
money that the board wishes to raise for the next fiscal year by
residential taxes under section 137.




(2)

Money raised under subsection (1) may be used by a board to provide
new programs, to enhance existing programs for additional activities
for students or for local capital project initiatives but must not be
used to fund operating deficits.




(3)

If a board passes a resolution to hold a referendum, the referendum
must be held on the third Saturday in April or on another date
prescribed by the Lieutenant Governor in Council.




(4)

A board may, by resolution, withdraw a referendum authorized under
subsection (1) at any time up to the date on which the referendum is
to be held.




(5)

The referendum ballot must be in the form set out in the Schedule and,
subject to the regulations, a board must place a separate question on
the ballot for each of the following categories for which it is
seeking approval for funding:




(a)

new, and enhanced, programs;




(b)

additional activities for students;




(c)

local capital initiatives in addition to those recognized by the
Province


and a board must not place any additional questions on the ballot.




(6)

A board must arrange for the holding of the referendum and may enter
into an agreement with one or more councils of municipalities or
boards of regional districts to conduct the referendum on the board's
behalf within all or part of the school district.




(7)

At least once a week for the 2 weeks immediately before the date for
holding the referendum, the board must publish in a newspaper of
general circulation in the school district a copy of the referendum
ballot and any other information prescribed by the Lieutenant Governor
in Council.




(8)

A person is entitled to vote on a referendum in a school district if,
at the time the referendum is held, that person




(a)

is entitled to vote in an election of school trustees in the school
district, or




(b)

would have been entitled to vote in an election of school trustees in
the school district had the person not filed a declaration under
section 166.14 (5) in respect of that election.




(9)

If a majority of the persons who cast valid ballots vote in favour of
raising the money that is the subject of a question on the referendum,
money approved by that question must form part of the board's budget
for the next fiscal year.




(10)

The referendum approval is for one year only and any money approved by
the referendum must be entirely raised by residential taxation within
the district in the calendar year in which the referendum is held.




(11)

No grants are payable under the

Home Owner Grant Act

with respect to taxes that a board raises as a result of a referendum.




(12)

A vote under this section must be conducted in accordance with the
regulations.




(13)

No elector may vote in more than one municipality or rural area in the
same school district in the same referendum.






Referendum bylaw




112.1

(1)


If a board has held a referendum approving the raising of money under
section 112, the board must adopt a bylaw, on or before April 27
of that year, that sets out




(a)

the amount, if any, of taxes to be raised within the school district
in that calendar year as a result of the referendum that approved that
amount,




(b)

the apportionment of the amount approved by referendum to the
constituent parts of the school district so that the tax to be raised
in each of those constituent parts bears the same ratio to the total
school referendum taxes to be raised in that school district as the
net taxable value of the residential land and improvements in each
constituent part of the school district bears to the total net taxable
value of residential land and improvements in the whole of that school
district, and




(c)

the rate that is to be applied to the net taxable value of residential
land and improvements in the school district so as to raise the amount
approved by referendum.




(2)

The board, immediately after adopting the bylaw referred to in
subsection (1), must send a certified copy of that adopted bylaw to




(a)

the council of each municipality in the school district, and




(b)

the Surveyor of Taxes in respect of the rural area of the school
district.






Adoption of budget




113

(1)


A board, by bylaw,




(a)

must adopt an annual budget on or before June 30 of each year for
the next fiscal year, and




(b)

may amend the annual budget adopted under paragraph (a).




(2)

If an operating grant to a board is amended under section 106.3 (6) or
a grant is withheld or reduced under section 117 (1), the minister may
order that




(a)

the board, by bylaw, must amend its annual budget, and




(b)

the board must send a certified copy of the amended annual budget to
the minister within 60 days of the order of the minister.




(3)

At the request of the minister, the board must send to the minister a
certified copy of its annual budget.




Division 3 — Grants





Payment of grants




114

(1)


In each fiscal year the minister must pay to the board of each school
district the operating grant plus the debt service grant for that
board.




(2)

If an operating grant is amended under section 106.3 (6), the minister
must vary the amount of the operating grant payable to the board under
subsection (1).




(3)

In respect of the payment of an operating grant or a debt service
grant under this section, the minister




(a)

must pay, at a minimum, an instalment in each month of the fiscal year
to the board of each school district, and




(b)

may determine the manner of payment.




(4)

If, at the end of a fiscal year, the minister has paid a board more
than the sum of the operating grant plus the debt service grant for
that board, the minister may deduct the overpayment from the amount
the minister must pay in the next fiscal year under subsection (1).






Special purpose grants




115

(1)


The minister may pay to a board of a school district in addition to
all other grants payable under this Act




(a)

a special grant, or




(b)

a grant for the operation of a Provincial resource program.




(2)

If the minister considers that a capital project should include
accommodation for a Provincial resource program or any other special
program or activity designated by the minister,  the minister may
pay all or part of the capital cost of that capital project.






Annual facility grant




115.1


The minister may pay to a board an annual facility grant to be used
for annual facility projects.






Repealed




115.2


[Repealed 2020-4-16.]






Support of Provincial schools




116


Subject to an appropriation being made under another Act, the minister
must pay all expenditures incurred in establishing, maintaining and
operating Provincial schools.






Conditions of grant payment




117

(1)


The minister may withhold or reduce a grant payable to a board under
this Act, other than a debt service grant, if




(a)

the duties of the secretary treasurer of the board are not being
discharged satisfactorily,




(b)

the board has not conducted its affairs in accordance with this Act
and the regulations and the orders of the minister,




(c)

each school building in the school district, together with its
equipment, has not been established or maintained to the satisfaction
of the minister,




(d)

the board has not transmitted in a timely fashion, or within the time
provided by this Act and the regulations or by the orders of the
minister, all reports, statements or returns required by the minister,




(e)

the operating expenses of a board have been reduced during a strike or
lockout as defined in the

Labour Relations Code

,




(f)

the board has not budgeted, spent or accounted for a targeted grant
under section 106.4 in accordance with the directions provided to it
in respect of that grant by the minister, or




(g)

the board violates a provision of an agreement made under section 75
(4.1).




(2)

Without limiting section 106.4 (1) (b), the minister may order that
any debt service expenses incurred by a board as a result of the
withholding of a grant under subsection (1) must be paid from one or
more of the payments to the board under section 114.




(3)

If a board fails to provide the money necessary to meet the payment of
principal or interest on securities issued by it under this Act, or
the payments of principal and interest referred to in
section 154, the Lieutenant Governor in Council may direct that
the amount necessary to meet the payments be deducted from sums due by
way of grant under this Act other than a debt service grant, and may
direct that amount to be applied in payment of the principal and
interest in the manner the Lieutenant Governor in Council directs.




Division 4 — Taxation





Definitions for this Division




117.1

(1)


In this Division:



"additional school tax"

means tax imposed under section 120.1;



"agricultural land reserve"

has the same meaning as in the

Agricultural Land Commission Act

;


"assessor"
means an assessor appointed under the

Assessment Authority Act

;



"class 1 property"

means property that is assessed as property in the class 1 property
class under the

Assessment Act

;



"class 9 property"

means land that is assessed as property in the class 9 property class
under the

Assessment Act

;



"dwelling property"

means the following class 1 property:




(a)

land that is outside the agricultural land reserve and that is
determined by the assessor to have no present use;




(b)

improvements on land that is not class 1 property if the improvements
are used or intended to be used as a residence;




(c)

land and improvements on the land, if




(i)

any of the improvements are used or intended to be used as a residence
for 3 or fewer families, and




(ii)

the improvements do not consist of a strata lot;




(d)

land and improvements that consist of a strata lot that is used or
intended to be used as a residence,


but does not include the following:




(e)

property referred to in paragraph (b), (c) or (d) of this definition
if the property includes a living accommodation described in section 4
(a), (b), (f) or (g)
[what the Act does not apply to]
of the

Residential Tenancy Act

;




(f)

a prescribed type or class of property;




(g)

property used for a prescribed purpose;




(h)

property owned by a person in a prescribed class of persons;



"general school tax"

means tax imposed under section 119;


"property"
means property as defined in the

Assessment Act

;



"property class"

means a class of property prescribed by the Lieutenant Governor in
Council under section 19 (14) of the

Assessment Act

;



"threshold amount"

means an applicable amount under section 120.1 (4) (a) or (b) or (5)
[determination of taxable amounts and threshold amounts]
.




(2)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations respecting any
matter for which regulations are contemplated by the definition of
"dwelling property" in subsection (1).




(3)

Despite section 74 (5)
[order or regulation affecting the assessment roll]
of the

Assessment Act

, regulations made under subsection (2) of this section may be made
retroactive to the extent necessary to apply for the 2019 or 2020
taxation year, as applicable, if the regulation is made on or before
December 31 of the applicable taxation year.






Grants in place of taxes




118

(1)


A municipality must apply in each taxation year to the following for
the school tax portion of a grant in place of taxes for the taxation
year in respect of land and improvements:




(a)

an owner who is identified by the British Columbia Assessment
Authority as




(i)

exempt from paying school taxes levied under this Act, and




(ii)

authorized to pay a grant in place of taxes;




(b)

an owner who is exempt from paying school taxes levied under this Act
and has paid a grant in place of taxes to the municipality in the
previous taxation year.




(2)

On or before February 1 in each year, a municipality must pay to the
minister of finance any amount that has been received by the
municipality in the preceding calendar year as the school tax portion
of a grant in place of taxes.




(3)

If a municipality does not apply for the school tax portion of a grant
in accordance with subsection (1) and in the opinion of the Surveyor
of Taxes the municipality would have received the grant if the
municipality had applied for it, the Surveyor of Taxes may disallow
all or part of the administration fee to which the municipality would
otherwise be entitled under section 124 (10).






General school tax




119

(1)


In order to raise revenue to finance the Provincial funding and the
debt service expenses of boards, the Province may levy a tax equal to
the net taxable value of the land and improvements multiplied by the
appropriate rate determined under subsection (3).




(2)

The minister of finance must determine the total amount to be raised
by taxes under this section on land and improvements from each
property class in all school districts.




(3)

On or before May 4 in each year, the Lieutenant Governor in Council
must determine rates to be applied to the net taxable value of all
land and improvements in each school district in order to raise the
amount referred to in subsection (2).




(4)

The rates to be determined under subsection (3) may differ




(a)

in respect of each school district, and




(b)

for different parts of the school district.




(5) to (7)

[Repealed 2018-4-90.]




(8)

[Repealed 2003-23-79.]




(9)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council must adopt a variable tax rate
system for the purpose of determining tax rates under subsection (3).




(10)

For the purposes of subsection (9),
"variable tax rate system"
means a system under which individual tax rates are determined and
imposed for each property class.






Repealed




120


[Repealed 2018-4-91.]






Additional school tax




120.1

(1)


This section applies to the 2019 and subsequent taxation years.




(2)

In order to raise revenue to finance the Provincial funding and the
debt service expenses of boards, the Province may, in addition to the
tax levied under section 119
[imposition of general school tax]
, levy a tax in accordance with this section.




(3)

An owner of dwelling property must, for a taxation year, pay tax in an
amount equal to the sum of the following:




(a)

the amount that is, as applicable,




(i)

0.2% of the taxable amount determined under subsection (4) for the
taxation year, or




(ii)

if a lower rate of tax is prescribed for a taxation year for the
purposes of this paragraph, the prescribed rate of tax multiplied by
the taxable amount;




(b)

the amount that is, as applicable,




(i)

0.4% of the taxable amount determined under subsection (5) for a
taxation year, or




(ii)

if a lower rate of tax is prescribed for a taxation year for the
purposes of this paragraph, the prescribed rate of tax multiplied by
the taxable amount.




(4)

For the purposes of subsection (3) (a) (i), the taxable amount for a
taxation year in respect of the dwelling property is the amount of the
net taxable value of the dwelling property




(a)

that exceeds, as applicable, $3 000 000 or a greater amount
prescribed, if any, and




(b)

that does not exceed, as applicable, $4 000 000 or a greater
amount prescribed, if any.




(5)

For the purposes of subsection (3) (b) (i), the taxable amount for a
taxation year in respect of the dwelling property is the amount by
which the net taxable value of the dwelling property exceeds
$4 000 000 or a greater amount prescribed, if any.




(6)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations as follows:




(a)

for the purposes of subsection (3) (a) (ii), prescribing a rate of tax
that is lower than 0.2% or prescribing a nil rate;




(b)

for the purposes of subsection (3) (b) (ii), prescribing a rate of tax
that is lower than 0.4% or prescribing a nil rate;




(c)

for the purposes of subsection (4) (a), prescribing, for a taxation
year, a threshold amount that is not lower than $3 000 000;




(d)

for the purposes of subsections (4) (b) and (5), prescribing, for a
taxation year, a threshold amount that is not lower than
$4 000 000.




(7)

A regulation under subsection (6) must be made on or before May 4 of
the taxation year in which the rate of tax or threshold amount, as the
case may be, is to apply.






Determining net taxable value




120.2


The net taxable value of land and improvements must be determined by
the assessor in accordance with the

Assessment Act

and this Act.






Notice to municipal collector




120.3

(1)


On or before May 10 in each year, the minister of revenue must send to
the collector in each municipality a notice setting out all of the
following information:




(a)

the net taxable value of land and improvements in the municipality as
certified under the

Assessment Act

;




(b)

the amount to be raised by general school taxes in the municipality;




(c)

the total amount of credits to which owners in the municipality are
entitled under section 131.2
[provincial industrial property tax credit]
and section 131.3
[provincial farm land tax credit]
;




(d)

the net amount to be raised by general school taxes in the
municipality after the deduction of the amount referred to in
paragraph (c);




(e)

the rates determined for the taxation year by the Lieutenant Governor
in Council under section 119 (3)
[tax rates for general school tax]
;




(f)

the amount to be raised by additional school taxes in the
municipality;




(g)

the rates and threshold amounts applicable under section 120.1
[imposition of additional school tax]
for the taxation year.




(2)

If a municipality is contained within the boundaries of more than one
school district, the notice under subsection (1) must, in relation to
general school taxes, contain all of the following information for
each part of the municipality:




(a)

the net taxable value of land and improvements in that part of the
municipality;




(b)

the amount of general school taxes to be raised in that part of the
municipality;




(c)

the rates that are applicable to each school district within which
that part of the municipality is contained.






Adjustments




121


If the net taxable values of land and improvements are adjusted, or a
supplementary assessment roll is prepared under the

Assessment Act

in respect of which section 228 (5)
[taxation of Crown land used by others]
of the

Community Charter

applies, amounts to be raised by taxation in each school district may
be adjusted in the current taxation year or a subsequent taxation year
in the manner directed by the minister of revenue.






Liability for taxation




122


An owner of land and improvements must pay school taxes and school
referendum taxes levied under this Act, and the taxes must be
collected in the manner provided for in this Act.






Application of other Acts for rural areas




123

(1)


Subject to this Act and the

Assessment Act

, the

Taxation (Rural Area) Act

applies to the assessment, levy, collection and recovery of taxes
imposed under this Act in a rural area of a school district, and to
the addition of penalties and interest on those taxes when delinquent,
in the same manner as taxes imposed under the

Taxation (Rural Area) Act

.




(2)

All taxes levied under this Act in a rural area of a school district
are, for all purposes of the

Taxation (Rural Area) Act

, deemed to be Provincial taxes imposed and assessed under that Act
and must, on collection or recovery, be accounted for as such and be
paid into the consolidated revenue fund.






Collection of school taxes by municipality




124

(1)


In this section,
"additional school taxes"
,
"general school taxes"
and
"school taxes"
do not include any penalty or interest that has been charged on those
taxes.




(2)

In each taxation year, each municipality collecting school taxes on
behalf of the government under this Act must pay to the minister of
finance




(a)

instalments of general school taxes, or additional school taxes, or
both, prescribed by regulation of the Lieutenant Governor in Council,
and




(b)

subject to subsections (6), (7) and (9), on the tenth business day
after the calendar year end of each year the balance of all taxes
imposed under this Act, whether or not they have been collected.




(3)

Despite subsection (2) (b), a municipality may, on the tenth business
day after the calendar year end of each taxation year and on the last
day of each succeeding month until all school taxes imposed under this
Act for that taxation year have been collected, pay to the minister of
finance the amount of school taxes that it collects by each of those
dates.




(4)

If a municipality elects to comply with subsection (3) instead of
subsection (2) (b), it must, in addition to the school taxes it pays
to the minister of finance, pay to the minister of finance all
penalties and interest that it collects in respect of those taxes.




(5)

A regulation under subsection (2) (a) may prescribe the amounts, the
manner and the times at which instalments are to be paid by a
municipality, and the amounts, manner and times may be different for
each municipality collecting school taxes under this Act.




(6)

If a municipality satisfies the minister of revenue that it is unable
to collect school taxes imposed under this Act in respect of a
taxation year on




(a)

land




(i)

the fee of which is held by the government or by some person or
organization on behalf of the government, and




(ii)

that is held or occupied other than by or on behalf of the government,
and




(b)

improvements on land described in paragraph (a),


the minister of revenue may write off the amount not collected,
whether or not the municipality has forwarded that amount under
subsection (2), and, if the amount is written off, a corresponding
adjustment must be made, in the manner directed by the minister of
revenue in the amount of school tax to be paid by the municipality in
respect of that or a subsequent taxation year.




(7)

Subsection (6) applies also in respect of land held in trust for an
Indian band and occupied, other than in an official capacity, by a
person who is not an Indian.




(8)

The write off of an amount under subsection (6) does not relieve the
holder or occupier from liability for school tax imposed under this
Act or prejudice the right of the government to collect from the
holder or occupier the amount written off.




(9)

In the manner and at the times prescribed by the Lieutenant Governor
in Council, a municipality may deduct the amount of home owner grants
approved under section 10
[determination on grant application]
of the

Home Owner Grant Act

from instalments of general school taxes payable under subsection (2)
of this section.




(10)

Subject to sections 118 (3) and 125 (5), a municipality may deduct, in
the manner and at the times directed by the minister of revenue, from
school taxes payable under this section for the current taxation year
or a subsequent taxation year an administration fee prescribed by the
Lieutenant Governor in Council.




(11)

The prescribed fee referred to in subsection (10) may, in relation to
general school taxes, be different for different property classes.




(12)

If the Lieutenant Governor in Council prescribes different fees for
different property classes, the prescribed fee referred to in
subsection (10) must, in relation to additional school taxes, be the
same as the fee prescribed in relation to general school taxes for
class 1 property.






Interest on unpaid taxes




125

(1)


In this section,
"unpaid taxes"
means any grants in place of taxes that a municipality is required to
pay to the minister of finance under section 118 and any school
taxes, penalties and interest that a municipality is required to pay
to the minister of finance under section 124 that have not been
paid as required by this Act or by the regulations.




(2)

A municipality must pay interest on its unpaid taxes to the minister
of finance.




(3)

Interest payable under subsection (2) must be calculated at the rate
prescribed by the Lieutenant Governor in Council and must be payable
on each amount of school taxes, penalties, interest or grants in place
of taxes included in the unpaid taxes from the date on which the
amount was to be paid to the minister of finance under this Act to the
date that the amount is received by the minister of finance.




(4)

The minister of revenue may give notice to a municipality of




(a)

the municipality's unpaid taxes,




(b)

any interest that is payable on the unpaid taxes under this section,




(c)

the date by which payment of the unpaid taxes and the interest is
required, and




(d)

the powers of the Surveyor of Taxes under subsection (5) if that
payment is not made as required.




(5)

If a municipality to which a notice is sent under subsection (4) does
not pay the unpaid taxes and the interest referred to in the notice by
the date required in the notice, the Surveyor of Taxes may disallow
all or part of the administration fee to which the municipality would
otherwise be entitled under section 124 (10).






Inspection




126

(1)


For the purpose of ensuring compliance with this Part and the
regulations related to Divisions 3 and 4 of this Part, the Surveyor of
Taxes or a person authorized in writing by the Surveyor of Taxes may




(a)

at any reasonable time enter the premises where one or more of the
records of a municipality are kept,




(b)

request production of records or things that may be relevant to the
inspection, and




(c)

inspect records or things relevant to the inspection.




(2)

Subsection (1) (a) does not authorize entry to a room actually used as
a dwelling without the consent of the occupier.




(3)

The person conducting an inspection under this section is entitled to
free access to all of the records of every description of the
municipality referred to in subsection (1) (a) that touch on any of
the matters in respect of which an inspection may be conducted under
this section.




(4)

A person who removes records or things under subsection (1) (c) must
return them within a reasonable time.






Application of other Acts for municipalities




127

(1)


Subject to this Act and the

Assessment Act

, the following Acts apply to the assessment, levy, collection and
recovery of taxes imposed under this Act in a municipality within a
school district, and to the addition of penalties and interest on
taxes that are in arrears or are delinquent, in the same manner as
taxes imposed under those Acts:




(a)


Community Charter

;




(b)


Local Government Act

;




(c)


Vancouver Charter

.




(2)

All school taxes when levied must, on collection by a municipality, be
separately accounted for as general school taxes or additional school
taxes, as the case may be.




(3)

All school referendum taxes when levied must, on collection by a
municipality, be accounted for as school referendum taxes.






General provisions on collection of school taxes




128

(1)


The municipality and the Surveyor of Taxes must act as the agent




(a)

for the board, for the collection of school referendum taxes, and




(b)

for the Province, for the collection of school taxes.




(2)

The collector of each municipality or the Surveyor of Taxes must
prepare and mail a notice, setting out the tax payable under this Act,
to each person named on the real property tax roll or assessment roll
as an assessed owner in the municipality or rural area, if any,
contained in the school district.




(3)

The notice under subsection (2) forms part of the taxation notices
under the

Community Charter

, the

Local Government Act

, the

Vancouver Charter

or the

Taxation (Rural Area) Act

, as the case may be, and separate notices must not be prepared and
rendered solely in respect of taxes for school purposes.




(4)

The notice under subsection (2) must set out




(a)

the total amount of general school taxes levied on each property by
the Province,




(a.1)

the amount of any credit to which the assessed owner is entitled under
section 131.2
[provincial industrial property tax credit]
of this Act,




(a.2)

the amount of any credit to which the assessed owner is entitled under
section 131.3
[provincial farm land tax credit]
of this Act,




(b)

the net amount of general school taxes payable by the assessed owner
after deduction of




(i)

any grant to which the assessed owner may be eligible under the

Home Owner Grant Act

, or




(ii)

the amounts of the credits referred to in paragraphs (a.1) and (a.2)
of this subsection,




(b.1)

the total amount of additional school taxes, if any, levied on
dwelling property by the Province, and




(c)

the total amount of school referendum taxes levied by a board.




(5)

Despite subsections (2), (3) and (4), the Surveyor of Taxes may, with
the written agreement of a taxpayer,




(a)

send a taxation notice to the taxpayer other than by mail, and




(b)

provide the information required to be contained in a taxation notice
in a form other than a form prescribed by the Lieutenant Governor in
Council, including provision by means of electronic information
storage and electronic data transmission.




(5.1)

Despite subsection (2), the collector of each municipality may provide
a notice to a taxpayer other than by mail, in accordance with any
applicable legislation.




(6)

Subject to sections 124 (10) and 137 (2), a municipality must not,
directly or indirectly, charge a fee to a taxpayer or the government
to cover the cost of




(a)

assessment and collection of taxes under this Act,




(b)

interest on money paid to a board in advance of collection of taxes,
or




(c)

losses that have occurred through the failure to collect taxes.






Taxation of school property




129

(1)


[Repealed 2018-4-96.]




(2)

Despite any other enactment, property in which a board has an
ownership interest is exempt from taxation if it is




(a)

vacant,




(b)

used in whole or in part for a school,




(c)

used in whole or in part for a purpose ancillary to the operation of a
school,




(d)

used in whole or in part by the board as a residence, if the residence
is available exclusively to the following individuals and the
individuals with whom they reside:




(i)

students attending a school within the board's school district;




(ii)

employees of the board,




(e)

leased by the board to an authority within the meaning of the

Independent School Act

and used in whole or in part for an independent school including any
purpose ancillary to the operation of the independent school,




(e.1)

leased by the board to a francophone education authority and used in
whole or in part for a francophone school including any purpose
ancillary to the operation of the francophone school, or




(f)

exempted from tax by a bylaw under section 224
[general authority for permissive exemptions]
of the

Community Charter

by the council of the municipality in which the property is located.




(3)

Unless exempted from taxation under subsection (2), property in which
a board has an ownership interest is subject to taxation in the name
of the board.




(4)

Nothing in subsection (2) exempts a property referred to in that
subsection from a fee or charge under the

Community Charter

or the

Local Government Act

.




(5)

If property referred to in subsection (3) is subject to taxation in
the name of the board,




(a)

the taxation imposed is a debt of the board due and payable to the
taxing authority but is not subject to penalty additions or interest,
and




(b)

the property is not subject to tax sale.




(6)

Property in which a board has an ownership interest is,




(a)

if mortgaged under section 104, liable to be taken in execution by the
mortgagee, or




(b)

in any other case, not liable to be taken in execution.




(7)

If property that is not exempted from taxation under section 224
[general authority for permissive exemptions]
of the

Community Charter

is leased to a board and used in whole or in part for a school,
including any purpose ancillary to the operation of the school, any
taxes payable in respect of that property must be paid by the owner of
the property and the board is not liable for the payment of any of
those taxes.




(8)

Subsection (7) does not apply to fees and charges under the

Community Charter

or the

Local Government Act

.






Agricultural land reserve exemption




130

(1)


Subject to this section, 50% of the assessed value of a parcel of land
is exempt from taxation under this Act if




(a)

the parcel of land is class 9 property, or




(b)

the parcel of land is in the agricultural land reserve, is subject to
sections 18 to 20.3 and 28 of the

Agricultural Land Commission Act

and is used in one or more of the ways set out in subsection (2)
of this section.




(2)

The parcel of land referred to in subsection (1) (b) must be




(a)

vacant and unused,




(b)

used for a farm or residential purpose, or




(c)

used for a purpose prescribed by the Lieutenant Governor in Council.




(3)

If only a portion of a parcel meets the requirements for exemption
under this section, only that portion is eligible for the exemption.




(4)

Subsection (1) (b) does not apply to a parcel of land that




(a)

is assessed in a property class that is prescribed by the Lieutenant
Governor in Council for the purposes of this section, or




(b)

is used for a purpose prescribed by the Lieutenant Governor in
Council.






Other exemptions




131

(1)


Subject to this Act, property that is in a municipal area of a school
district and that is exempt from property taxation under the

Community Charter

or the

Vancouver Charter

, as the case may be, is also exempt from taxation under this Act.




(2)

Land is exempt from taxation under this Act if the land is included in
a timber lease or timber licence issued under an enactment of British
Columbia or of Canada




(a)

for which a stumpage, as defined in the

Forest Act

, has not been reserved or not made available to the government, or




(b)

which is held for the specific purpose of cutting and removing timber,
and for no other purpose while so held.




(3)

Subject to subsection (4), if property in a rural area of a school
district is exempt from taxation under the

Taxation (Rural Area) Act

, the property is also exempt from taxation under this Act to the
extent of the exemption provided under the

Taxation (Rural Area) Act

.




(4)

The following are subject to taxation under this Act:




(a)

a dwelling referred to in section 15 (1) (f) or (f.1) of the

Taxation (Rural Area) Act

;




(b)

farm improvements, other than a dwelling referred to in paragraph (a),
that are exclusively used to operate a farm but only to the extent
that the aggregate of their assessed values exceeds the greater of the
following:




(i)

87.5% of the aggregated assessed value;




(ii)

$50 000.




(5)

Despite subsection (1), property that is exempted under section 225
[partnering and other exemptions]
of the

Community Charter

or section 396
[tax exemptions under partnering agreement]
of the

Local Government Act

in relation to




(a)

a partnering agreement under the applicable Act,




(b)

a golf course, or




(c)

a cemetery, mausoleum or columbarium,


is not exempt from taxation under this Act unless exempted under
subsection (6) or (8) of this section.




(6)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations exempting
property referred to in subsection (5) from taxation under this Act.




(7)

Regulations under subsection (6) may




(a)

provide an exemption for all or part of the property that is exempted
under the

Community Charter

or the

Local Government Act

,




(b)

provide an exemption for all or part of the term of the exemption
under the

Community Charter

or the

Local Government Act

, and




(c)

be different for different classes or uses of property, different
classes of owner and different classes of partnering agreements.




(8)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may, by order in relation to
property referred to in subsection (5) that is specified in the order,
exempt all or part of the property from taxation under this Act and
may provide the exemption for all or part of the term of the exemption
under the

Community Charter

or the

Local Government Act

.




(9)

Despite subsection (1) but subject to section 131.01
[revitalization school tax exemption]
property that is exempted under




(a)

section 226
[revitalization tax exemptions]
of the

Community Charter

, or




(b)

section 396E
[revitalization tax exemptions]
of the

Vancouver Charter



is not exempted from taxation under this Act.






Revitalization school tax exemption




131.01

(1)


In this section:



"exemption certificate"

, in relation to a qualifying rental property, means the exemption
certificate referred to in subsection (4) (c);



"qualifying rental property"

means land and improvements that are class 1 property if the
improvements




(a)

do not consist of strata lots,




(b)

include at least 5 rental units that have been, since the date an
exemption certificate was issued,




(i)

newly constructed or placed on the land, or




(ii)

created as the result of a substantial renovation of existing
improvements, and




(c)

meet the requirements prescribed by the Lieutenant Governor in
Council,

but does not include



(d)

land or improvements, or both, that are used for a purpose prescribed
by the Lieutenant Governor in Council, or




(e)

a type or class of land or improvements, or both, prescribed by the
Lieutenant Governor in Council;



"rental unit"

means a rental unit as defined in section 1 of the

Residential Tenancy Act

, if the rental unit is subject to that Act, and includes




(a)

a living accommodation described in section 4 (b), (f) and (g)
[what the Act does not apply to]
of the

Residential Tenancy Act

, or




(b)

land or improvements, or both, prescribed by the Lieutenant Governor
in Council;



"revitalization tax exemption"

, in relation to a qualifying rental property, means the applicable
revitalization tax exemption referred to in subsection (4) (a);



"substantial renovation"

, in relation to existing improvements, means a renovation of the
improvements to such an extent that all or substantially all of the
improvements have been removed or replaced, other than structural
components, which include, without limitation, the roof, the
foundation, external walls, interior supporting walls, floors and
staircases.




(2)

Words and expressions used in this section in relation to a
revitalization tax exemption under section 226
[revitalization tax exemptions]
of the

Community Charter

have the same meaning as in that section.




(3)

Words and expressions used in this section in relation to a
revitalization tax exemption under section 396E
[revitalization tax exemptions]
of the

Vancouver Charter

have the same meaning as in that section.




(4)

Qualifying rental property is, for a taxation year, exempt from
taxation under this Act, in accordance with subsection (5), if all of
the following apply:




(a)

the qualifying rental property, or property of which the qualifying
rental property is a part, is, for the taxation year, subject to a
revitalization tax exemption under section 226 of the

Community Charter

or section 396E of the

Vancouver Charter

, as applicable;




(b)

the creation of new rental housing is one of the reasons for or one of
the objectives of the applicable revitalization tax exemption as set
out in the applicable




(i)

revitalization program bylaw under section 226 of the

Community Charter

, or




(ii)

revitalization program by-law under section 396E of the

Vancouver Charter

;




(c)

an exemption certificate for property subject to the applicable
revitalization tax exemption was issued after February 20, 2018, under
section 226 (8) of the

Community Charter

or section 396E (10) of the

Vancouver Charter

, as applicable;




(d)

all of the rental units in the qualifying rental property




(i)

are rented or offered for rent only for a period of at least one
month, and




(ii)

when occupied, are occupied by a tenant who is not required to vacate
the rental unit at the end of the first month;




(e)

on or before October 31 of the taxation year immediately preceding the
first taxation year for which the exemption under this section is to
apply, the owner of the qualifying rental property notifies the
assessor that the rental units are ready for occupancy.




(5)

The exemption for qualifying rental property for a taxation year is
calculated as follows:




VRSTE =
VRTE
× AVQRP







TAV






where


VRSTE

is the value of the revitalization school tax exemption under
this section;



VRTE

is the value of the applicable revitalization tax exemption;



TAV

is the total assessed value of the parcel of land, together with
improvements, that is subject to the applicable revitalization
tax exemption;



AVQRP

is the assessed value of the qualifying rental property.









School tax exemptions and refunds for approved and eligible
alternative energy power projects




131.1

(1)


In this section,
"power project"
and
"supply"
have the same meaning as in section 1 of the

Hydro and Power Authority Act

.




(2)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may




(a)

establish and approve one or more classes of alternative energy power
projects for the purposes of this section, and




(b)

in respect of one or more power projects or types of power projects,
within a class of alternative energy power projects approved under
paragraph (a), make regulations providing for




(i)

exemptions from school taxes, and




(ii)

refunds of school taxes paid.




(3)

A regulation providing an exemption from school taxes under subsection
(2) (b) (i) may, as the Lieutenant Governor in Council considers
advisable,




(a)

designate one or more power projects or types of power projects,
within a class of alternative energy power projects approved under
subsection (2) (a), as eligible for the exemption,




(b)

limit the exemption to newer power projects, and for that purpose
establish what constitutes a newer power project,




(c)

limit the exemption to specified types of land, improvements or both,
that are used, or will be used at a future time, for or in connection
with the generation or supply of power,




(d)

establish the conditions on which and prescribe the manner in which
the exemption may be provided, and




(e)

provide differently for different power projects or types of power
projects.




(4)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make a regulation providing an
exemption under this section retroactive to the extent necessary to
apply for the purposes of the 2005 taxation year.




(5)

A regulation may not be made under subsection (4) after December 31,
2005.




(6)

A regulation providing a refund of school taxes under subsection (2)
(b) (ii) may, as the Lieutenant Governor in Council considers
advisable,




(a)

designate one or more power projects or types of power projects,
within a class of alternative energy power projects approved under
subsection (2) (a), in respect of which the refund may be provided,




(b)

limit the refund to newer power projects, and for that purpose
establish what constitutes a newer power project,




(c)

limit the refund to school taxes paid by the taxpayer in respect of
specified types of land, improvements or both,




(d)

establish the conditions on which and prescribe the manner in which
the refund may be provided to the taxpayer, and




(e)

provide differently for different power projects or types of power
projects.




(7)

School tax refunds provided under this section must be paid out of the
consolidated revenue fund.






Provincial industrial property tax credit




131.2

(1)


In this section:



"class 4 property"

means property that is assessed as property in the class 4 property
class under the

Assessment Act

;



"class 5 property"

means property that is assessed as property in the class 5 property
class under the

Assessment Act

.




(2)

For the 2009 and 2010 taxation years, an owner of class 4 property or
class 5 property is entitled to a credit equal to 50% of the school
taxes levied in the taxation year on the class 4 property or class 5
property.




(2.1)

For the 2011, 2012 and 2013 taxation years, an owner of class 4
property or class 5 property is entitled to a credit equal to 60%
of the school taxes levied in the taxation year on the class 4
property or class 5 property.




(2.2)

For the 2014 to 2022 taxation years, an owner of class 4 property is
entitled to a credit equal to 60% of the school taxes levied in the
taxation year on the class 4 property.




(3)

For the purpose of calculating the school taxes payable under this Act
by an owner entitled to a credit under subsection (2), (2.1) or (2.2),
the collector for the municipality or the Surveyor of Taxes must
deduct the amount of the credit from the school taxes otherwise
payable under this Act by the owner.






Provincial farm land tax credit




131.3

(1)


[Repealed 2018-4-100.]




(2)

For the 2011 and subsequent taxation years, an owner of class 9
property is entitled to a credit equal to 50% of the school taxes
levied in the taxation year on the class 9 property.




(3)

For the purpose of calculating the school taxes payable under this Act
by an owner entitled to a credit under subsection (2), the collector
for the municipality or the Surveyor of Taxes must deduct the amount
of the credit from the school taxes otherwise payable under this Act
by the owner.






Corporations




132


Corporations must be assessed and taxed as other persons under this
Act.






Assessor may require information in rural area




133


A person liable to assessment and taxation under this Act in respect
of land and improvements in a rural area of a school district must,
within 21 days after receiving a request from the assessor, make and
file a return in the form approved by the assessor, detailing the
nature, amount and value of all land and improvements in respect of
which the person is liable to assessment.






Collector to apply
Taxation (Rural Area) Act




134


The Surveyor of Taxes must apply the

Taxation (Rural Area) Act

to the taxation of property under this Act in rural areas, and in so
doing must tax the property on a supplementary assessment roll
prepared under the

Assessment Act

at the same rates of taxation as are charged against property assessed
for school purposes in that school district for the corresponding
period under this Act.






Appeal




135


Every person assessed in a rural area of a school district under this
Act has the same rights of appeal on the person's real property
assessment as are provided for by the

Taxation (Rural Area) Act

and

Assessment Act

.






Assessment to repay borrowed money




136

(1)


If a school district that includes a rural area is abolished and is
not included within the limits of another school district, all money
borrowed under this Act by the board on behalf of the rural area and
remaining unpaid must continue to constitute a charge on all the
taxable property in the rural area formerly comprised in that school
district.




(2)

The yearly amount of money necessary to provide principal repayments
and interest payments on debt incurred as determined by the minister
of finance must be assessed, levied and collected in respect of the
property in the rural area formerly comprised in that school district,
and all money so collected must be applied by the minister of finance
to principal repayments and interest payments on debt incurred to the
persons entitled to it.






School referendum taxes




137

(1)


In order to raise revenue approved by a referendum under
section 112, a board must levy a school referendum tax on
residential land and improvements in the district.




(2)

The amounts of school referendum taxes levied by the board and
requisitioned in the bylaw adopted under section 113 in respect
of each constituent part of the school district are deemed to have
been requisitioned on and from January 1 of the calendar year for
which the requisition is made, and the amounts must be paid to the
board by the municipality or municipalities or, in the case of rural
areas, by the minister of finance, on or before September 1 of
that year.




(3)

A municipality must pay the amounts required of it under subsection
(2) from the general revenue fund of the municipality, and the school
referendum taxes collected under this Act in respect of the
municipality must be paid into its general revenue fund.




(4)

The minister of finance must pay amounts required with respect to a
rural area under subsection (2) out of the consolidated revenue fund,
and the school referendum taxes collected under this Act in respect of
the rural area must be paid into the consolidated revenue fund.




(5)

If the net taxable values of residential land and improvements for
each part of a school district as certified under the

Assessment Act

are adjusted, the amount of the levy under subsection (1) is deemed to
be adjusted to equal the product of the rate determined under section
113 (2) (c) multiplied by the adjusted net taxable value of the
residential land and improvements determined under the

Assessment Act

and this Act.




(6)

Sections 119 to 136, other than sections 124 (10), 131.2 and 131.3,
apply to the assessment, levy, collection, recovery and payment of
school referendum taxes levied by a board.




Division 5 — General





Regulations




138

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations, including
regulations




(a)

[Repealed 2002-53-52.]




(b)

amending the Schedule,




(c)

governing referendums under section 112,




(d)

governing the conduct of a vote under section 112, including, without
limiting this, making




(i)

Part 4
[Assent Voting]
of the

Local Government Act

or, in the case of School District No. 39 (Vancouver), Part II
[Assent Voting]
of the

Vancouver Charter

, and




(ii)

provisions of the

Local Elections Campaign Financing Act

in relation to assent voting,


apply to the extent the Lieutenant Governor in Council considers
necessary, and




(e)

providing for the manner of accounting for amounts payable by
municipalities to the minister of finance under this Act.




(2)

[Repealed 2002-53-52.]






Short term borrowing




139

(1)


Subject to the regulations, a board may borrow to meet current
operating expenses.




(2)

Any interest earned as the result of borrowing under subsection (1)
must be used first to offset the debt service expenses of that
borrowing.




(3)

The board must pay out of the operating grant that is paid to the
board in a fiscal year, any interest charges that are payable in that
fiscal year as the result of borrowings under subsection (1).






First charges




140


The amounts included in the expenditures for the payment of interest
and principal in respect of debts lawfully incurred by a board
constitute a first charge on the money available for those
expenditures and are not subject to reduction by agreement or
arbitration.




Division 6 — Capital Plans and Money Bylaws





Capital projects




141

(1)


Subject to the orders of the minister, a board may




(a)

engage in a tendering process related to any capital expenditure by
the board, and




(b)

spend money




(i)

for a local capital project,




(ii)

for an annual facility project, and




(iii)

for a capital plan project, with the approval of the minister.




(2)

Subject to the provisions of this Act respecting a local capital
project and a capital plan project, a board may spend money on a joint
capital project.






Capital plan




142

(1)


A board must, when required by the minister, prepare and submit to the
minister a capital plan.




(2)

If one or more community plans have been or are being prepared in
respect of areas that include the whole or any part of a school
district, the board of the school district must, when preparing a
capital plan under subsection (1) and with a view to rendering that
capital plan consistent with those community plans,




(a)

review and consider each of those community plans, and




(b)

consult in respect of those community plans




(i)

with each local government and local trust committee that has prepared
or is preparing those plans, or




(ii)

in the case of a community plan adopted by a local government before
January 1, 1978 that applies, in whole or in part, to land
within a local trust area, with each local government and local trust
committee that has the authority to amend the community plan in
respect of areas that include the whole or any part of the school
district.




(3)

A capital plan prepared under this section must




(a)

be in a form specified by the minister,




(b)

set out the plans of the board respecting the development of proposed
school sites and facilities and the renovation of existing school
facilities in its school district,




(c)

set out particulars of all capital projects that the board proposes to
undertake during a period specified by the minister other than




(i)

local capital projects that are not joint capital projects, and




(ii)

annual facility projects,




(d)

set out an estimate of the financial resources required for the
proposed capital projects set out in the capital plan, and




(e)

set out any other information the minister requires.




(4)

Before submitting a capital plan to the minister for approval, a board
must, by resolution, approve the proposed capital plan.




(5)

The minister may approve, approve with modifications or reject a
capital plan submitted to the minister under this section.






Capital bylaws




143

(1)


If the minister approves a capital plan or approves a capital plan
with modification, the board must prepare a capital bylaw.




(2)

The capital bylaw




(a)

must be in a form specified by the minister,




(b)

must include provisions that the minister considers necessary or that
are prescribed by the Lieutenant Governor in Council,




(c)

is not valid unless it is adopted by a majority of the board,




(d)

may, subject to paragraphs (a) and (b), provide for the issue of
securities to raise the net sums required after payment of expenses of
issue and sale of the securities, and




(e)

may delegate to a trustee, the secretary treasurer or an employee of
the board the authority to settle the terms and conditions of
securities referred to in paragraph (d).




(3)

A board may not amend a capital bylaw except as approved in writing by
the minister.






Borrowing for capital expenditures




144

(1)


A board must not borrow or spend money in respect of a capital plan
expenditure unless




(a)

the board has adopted a capital bylaw in accordance with
section 143, and




(b)

the minister has in writing authorized the borrowing or expenditure.




(2)

An approval of a capital plan by the minister under section 142 (5) is
not an authorization for the purpose of subsection (1) (b).




(3)

A board that is authorized under subsection (1) (b) to borrow or to
make an expenditure must, if the minister so directs, spend on the
capital plan project such part of any surplus referred to in section
156 (10) as the minister specifies.




(4)

A board that borrows money in respect of a capital plan project
approved under subsection (1) must, if the minister so directs, apply
to the discharge of the loan any part of a surplus referred to in
section 156 (10) that the minister specifies.




(5)

Despite subsection (1), a board may borrow or spend money in respect
of a capital expenditure if




(a)

the borrowing and expenditure is required because of an emergency, and




(b)

the minister approves




(i)

the capital project for which the capital expenditure is to be
incurred, and




(ii)

all borrowings and expenditures for that capital project.




(6)

A board must not borrow money for capital expenditures unless the
minister has, in writing, authorized the borrowing.






Sinking fund debentures




145

(1)


Despite Division 7, a bylaw of a board providing for the borrowing of
money by the issue of debentures may authorize the issue of sinking
fund debentures for a term not exceeding 30 years from the date
of the issue of the debentures.




(2)

If a bylaw authorizes the issue of sinking fund debentures under
subsection (1),




(a)

the board must set aside in each fiscal year during the term of the
debentures, a sum that, together with interest compounded annually on
it at a rate determined by the minister of finance, would be
sufficient to provide a sinking fund for




(i)

the full repayment of the debentures at their maturity, or




(ii)

with the approval of the minister of finance, the partial repayment of
the debentures at their maturity, and




(b)

the amount of interest payable in each fiscal year and the amount to
be set aside in each fiscal year for the sinking fund must be set out
in the bylaw.




(3)

For the purposes of this Act, the amount to be set aside for the
sinking fund in any fiscal year is deemed to be an amount or
instalment of principal falling due or becoming payable in the fiscal
year, and this Act must be construed accordingly.




(4)

The amount to be set aside in each fiscal year for the sinking fund
must be paid on or before the date specified in the bylaw to the
minister of finance, who must




(a)

act as trustee for the board,




(b)

establish appropriate sinking fund trustee accounts, and




(c)

invest the amount and interest earnings on it in investments permitted
for a trust fund under section 40 (4) of the

Financial Administration Act

.






Issue of debentures to certain special purchasers




146

(1)


If debentures issued by a board are to be sold to a purchaser
designated by the Lieutenant Governor in Council as a purchaser with
respect to whom this subsection applies, the board may




(a)

issue the debentures in coupon form or in fully registered form and in
the denominations required by their purchasers, and




(b)

exchange the debentures for other debentures of the same issue for an
equal aggregate principal amount on terms and conditions determined by
the board.




(2)

This section is retroactive to the extent necessary to give it full
force and effect in respect of bylaws passed by a board before
March 26, 1965 providing for the issue and sale of
debentures and in respect of the debentures, and, with the approval of
the Lieutenant Governor in Council, the board may amend the bylaw
accordingly.




(3)

Section 149 applies to debentures issued in exchange for other
debentures of the same issue.




(4)

Despite the other provisions of this Act, debentures issued by a board
under this Act to be sold to the minister of finance may contain any
terms and conditions agreed to by the board and the minister of
finance.




Division 7 — Debentures





Issue of debentures




147

(1)


Debentures authorized by a bylaw may be issued all at one time or, if
it is anticipated that the proposed expenditures for the purposes set
out in the bylaw will extend over a period of time and it is
considered undesirable to have large portions of the money in hand
unused and uninvested, or for other sufficient causes, the debentures
may, with the approval of the minister, be issued in instalments in
amounts, not exceeding in the aggregate the total principal amount
authorized by the bylaw, and at times as the exigency of the case
demands.




(2)

Debentures may be issued up to the principal amount authorized by the
bylaw referred to in subsection (1), even if the net sum realized
after payment of discount, commission, brokerage, exchange and other
expenses with respect to the issue and sale of the debentures is
greater or less than the amount required for the purposes specified in
the bylaw.




(3)

If the amount so realized is greater than the amount required for the
purposes set out in the bylaw, the excess may, with the approval of
the minister, be spent by the board to meet other capital expenditures
or be applied to retirement of the debt so created.




(4)

If the amount so realized is less than the amount required for the
purpose set out in the bylaw, the deficiency may be raised in the
manner directed by the Lieutenant Governor in Council, who may direct
that the deficiency be raised by a further issue of debentures.




(5)

Unless otherwise authorized by the Lieutenant Governor in Council, the
debentures must be dated no more than 2 years after the final
passing of the bylaw authorizing their issue.






Signature and corporate seal




148

(1)


Debentures issued under this Act by a board must have the board's
corporate seal affixed and be signed by the chair and by the secretary
treasurer of the board.




(2)

The signature of the chair on the debentures may be printed or
otherwise mechanically reproduced.




(3)

The debentures may be signed at the date of the debentures or at any
time after that by the chair and the secretary treasurer of the board
holding office at the date of the passage of the bylaw authorizing the
issue of the debentures.




(4)

The debentures are binding on the board despite a change in the
offices of the chair or the secretary treasurer between the time the
signatures are affixed and the date of delivery of the debentures.






Debentures guaranteed




149

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may guarantee payment of the
principal and interest of debentures issued by a board, and the form
and manner of the guarantee must be as approved by the Lieutenant
Governor in Council.




(2)

The guarantee must be signed by the minister of finance or another
officer designated by the Lieutenant Governor in Council and, on being
signed,




(a)

the government is liable for payment of the principal and interest of
the debentures,




(b)

the Lieutenant Governor in Council is authorized to make arrangements
to supply the money necessary to fulfill the requirements of the
guarantee and to advance that amount out of the consolidated revenue
fund, and




(c)

in the hands of a holder of the debentures, a guarantee so signed is
conclusive evidence that this section has been complied with.






Registration of debentures and transfers




150

(1)


A debenture issued by a board may contain or have endorsed on it a
provision to the following effect:



This debenture, or an interest in it, is not, after a certificate of
ownership has been endorsed on it by the secretary treasurer of the
board, transferable, except by entry by the secretary treasurer or the
secretary treasurer's deputy in the debenture registry book of the
Board of Education at the ..........................................
of ...................................... .




(2)

On the application of the owner of a debenture endorsed in accordance
with subsection (1) or of an interest in that debenture, the secretary
treasurer or a person authorized by the board must endorse on the
debenture a certificate of ownership, and must enter in a book, to be
called the debenture registry book,




(a)

a copy of the certificate and of every certificate that is
subsequently given, and




(b)

a memorandum of every transfer of the debenture.




(3)

A certificate of ownership must not be endorsed on a debenture except
by the written authority of the person last entered as the owner of
it, or of that person's executor or administrator, or of the attorney
representing the person, executor or administrator, which authority
must be retained and filed by the secretary treasurer.




(4)

After a certificate of ownership has been endorsed, the debenture is
transferable only by entry by the secretary treasurer in the debenture
registry book, as and when a transfer of the debenture is authorized
by the then owner of it or by that person's executor or administrator,
or the attorney representing any of them.




(5)

On the written request of the person named as owner in the certificate
of ownership endorsed on a debenture, or of that person's executor or
administrator, or of the attorney of any of them, the secretary
treasurer may cancel and remove the certificate of ownership and by
that constitute the security a debenture payable to bearer and
transferable by delivery.




(6)

When a debenture issued by a board is held by the minister of finance,
the board may by resolution authorize the security registrar in the
ministry of the minister of finance to act as deputy of the secretary
treasurer of the board for the purpose of registering in the debenture
registry book of the board the ownership of the debenture by the
minister of finance for the government or by the minister of finance
as trustee for any of the several accounts administered by the
minister of finance and of endorsing on the debenture a certificate of
that ownership.




(7)

A registration or endorsement under subsection (6) is of the same
effect as if made by the secretary treasurer of the board.






Validity of debentures




151


When debentures have been issued by a board under a bylaw that has not
been quashed by a court and the interest on them that has fallen due
has been paid for the period of one year by the board, the bylaw and
the debentures issued under it, or so much of them as may be unpaid,
are valid and binding on the board and the owner electors of the
school district and on all parties concerned.






Issue of duplicate debenture




152

(1)


If a debenture is lost, stolen or destroyed and




(a)

notice of the loss, theft or destruction is given to the board, and




(b)

neither the debenture nor any of its coupons has been presented for
payment


the board may, on application accompanied by proof of the facts
satisfactory to it, after the expiration of 6 months from the
receipt of the notice replace the debenture with a duplicate debenture
with its coupons attached.




(2)

The duplicate must be printed in a manner distinguishing it from the
original debenture.




(3)

The applicant must pay the costs of printing and deliver to the board
a bond or policy of a guarantee or insurance company, carrying on
business in British Columbia and approved by the board, in the amount
of the debenture and interest indemnifying the board and its paying
agents against loss or damage.




(4)

This section applies to debentures lost, stolen or destroyed before as
well as after the coming into force of this section.






Provincial repayments to board




153

(1)


The amount payable for interest and instalment of principal in any
fiscal year in respect of debentures issued under a bylaw passed under
this Act must be included in the board's estimates of expenses for
that fiscal year.




(2)

The amount paid by the government to a board under subsection (1) must
be applied by the board to payment of the interest and instalments of
principal falling due in the fiscal year, and for no other purpose.




(3)

Failing an appropriation of the Legislature to provide the amounts to
be paid by the government under this section, that amount is a charge
on and must be paid out of the consolidated revenue fund.






Repayment of debentures




154

(1)


The amount necessary to be levied to raise in each year the sums
required to meet the portion of principal and interest on the
debentures issued under a bylaw, other than the amount to be paid by
the government under this Act, must be apportioned between the
constituent parts of the school district, as provided in this Act.




(2)

The Surveyor of Taxes and each municipality must, on the request of
the board, raise annually by taxation and levy in the rural area and
in the municipalities respectively, as part of the expenses of the
board, the respective amounts apportioned under subsection (1) to the
rural area and to the municipality or municipalities included in the
school district.




(3)

Every board must




(a)

provide as part of its expenses the sums required annually to pay
interest and principal falling due on debentures issued, before
September 1, 1989, by a municipality or by the board of a
rural area,




(b)

pay annually the amounts attributable to each municipality in the
school district as are necessary to pay the amounts of principal and
interest payable by each municipal corporation in respect of
debentures issued by it, and




(c)

provide for payment of the principal and interest in respect of
debentures issued, before September 1, 1989, by the board of
a rural area in the school district.




Division 8 — Accounts and Audits





Repealed




155


[Repealed 2002-53-58.]






Accounting practices




156

(1)


Subject to this section, a board must




(a)

maintain budgetary control over expenditures,




(b)

in accordance with the orders of the minister,




(i)

account and keep accounting records for funds, and




(ii)

prepare and submit to the minister financial reports and statements,
in the form, with the information and at the time required by the
minister, and




(c)

designate specific funds in accordance with the requirements specified
by the minister.




(2)

Funds received by a board as proceeds of the issue and sale of
debentures authorized under this Act must be placed in special purpose
accounts, and may be spent only for the purposes approved by the
minister and for which they were provided.




(3)

[Repealed 2004-17-20.]




(4)

When directed to do so by the minister, a board must establish a
special purpose account




(a)

for a purpose specified by the minister, and




(b)

in accordance with the terms of the special purpose account determined
by the minister.




(5)

A board that establishes a special purpose account under subsection
(4) must spend and account for the money in the special purpose
account in accordance with




(a)

the terms of the special purpose account, and




(b)

the directions of the minister.




(6)

Except for a debt service surplus, every surplus accruing in respect
of operating expenses of a board may be retained as an unappropriated
operating reserve of the board.




(6.1)

An amount retained as an operating reserve, unless appropriated for
the purposes of section 111, may be spent or transferred by the board
to another reserve only in accordance with the orders of the minister.




(6.2)

The amount retained by a board as an unappropriated operating reserve
of the board may not exceed the amount determined by order of the
minister.




(7) to (9)

[Repealed 2004-17-20.]




(10)

A surplus in respect of a capital plan project may be spent only




(a)

on capital expenditures, and




(b)

with the minister's approval.




(11)

For purposes of this section, proceeds of the issue and sale of
debentures are deemed to include premiums and accrued interest on them
to the date of settlement, and interest earned in respect of a fund is
deemed part of the fund.




(12)

A board must not incur a deficit of any kind unless the board




(a)

has the approval of the minister, or




(b)

meets criteria prescribed by order of the minister.




(13)

[Repealed 2002-53-59.]






Financial statements




157

(1)


The board must cause to be prepared each fiscal year by the secretary
treasurer or other person authorized by it, financial statements of
the school district respecting the preceding fiscal year.




(2)

The financial statements required under subsection (1) must be
prepared on or before September 15 of each year, in accordance with




(a)

subject to paragraph (b), generally accepted accounting principles,
and




(b)

the directions of the minister.




(3)

The financial statements may include separate statements of special
activities of the board so long as the items of account of a
controlling nature appear in the statements referred to in subsection
(2).




(4)

The financial statements referred to in subsection (2) must be signed
by the chair of the board and the secretary treasurer, and must be
published for distribution to the public before December 31 together
with the auditor's report submitted to the board under section 161 (1)
(d).




(5)

The secretary treasurer must, not later than September 30 in each
year, forward to the minister a copy of the financial statements
together with the auditor's report.






Financial information




157.1


Without limiting section 81, at the times and in the form required by
the minister, a board must submit to the minister financial
information necessary for the purpose of incorporating the financial
information into the financial reports of the government reporting
entity.






Appointment of auditor




158

(1)


Unless the Auditor General is appointed in accordance with the

Auditor General Act

as the auditor of the board of a school district, the board of the
school district must appoint an auditor to audit the accounts of the
board.




(2)

The auditor appointed by the board must be a person who is




(a)

a member of, or is a partnership whose partners are members of, a
provincial institute of chartered accountants within Canada,




(b)

a member of a provincial organization of chartered professional
accountants within Canada, authorized by that organization to perform
an audit,




(c)

a professional accounting corporation as defined in the

Chartered Professional Accountants Act

, authorized by the CPABC as defined in that Act to perform an audit,
or




(d)

a registered firm as defined in the

Chartered Professional Accountants Act

, authorized by the CPABC as defined in that Act to perform an audit.




(3)

If a board fails or neglects to appoint an auditor and the Auditor
General is not appointed in accordance with the

Auditor General Act

, the minister may on one month's notice to the board appoint an
auditor.




(4)

The board must pay the auditor's remuneration.




(5)

Sections 159 and 160 do not apply if the auditor of the board of a
school district is the Auditor General appointed in accordance with
the

Auditor General Act

.






Rescission of auditor's appointment




159

(1)


The secretary treasurer of each board must promptly notify, in
writing, the auditor and the minister of an appointment made under
section 158 (1) and of the rescission of the appointment.




(2)

If an auditor's appointment is rescinded, the auditor may, within one
month of notification of the rescission, appeal the rescission to the
minister, who may confirm or set aside the rescission.




(3)

An appeal under subsection (2) must be in writing and a copy of the
written appeal must be filed by the auditor with the secretary
treasurer.




(4)

The board must not appoint another auditor until the time allowed for
an appeal by the auditor has elapsed or, if an appeal has been made,
until the appeal has been dealt with by the minister.




(5)

The rescission of the appointment of an auditor is not effective until
a successor has been appointed.






Minister may remove auditor




160

(1)


If the minister believes an auditor has acted in a negligent manner,
the minister may require the board to rescind the appointment and
appoint another auditor.




(2)

An auditor whose appointment is rescinded under subsection (1) may
appeal within 10 days against the order of the minister to the
Lieutenant Governor in Council, who may confirm or set aside the order
of the minister.






Duties of auditor




161

(1)


In addition to any terms of an auditor's appointment, the auditor




(a)

must make an examination that will enable the auditor to report to the
board as required under paragraph (d),




(b)

has a right of access at all times to every record of the board other
than a student record or a record referred to in paragraph (d) of the
definition of "student record",




(c)

may require from trustees or officers or employees of the board and
from any other persons any information or explanation necessary to
complete the audit, and




(d)

must submit a report to the board respecting the annual financial
statements referred to in section 157.




(2)

The auditor must report to the board any disbursement, expenditure,
liability or other transaction that exceeds the authority of the board
under this or any other enactment.




(3)

In addition to the examination and reports required by this section,
the minister or the board may at any time require further examinations
and reports from the auditor that are considered necessary, and the
auditor on the auditor's own initiative may make any further
examinations or reports considered advisable.




(4)

The auditor must forward to the minister a copy of every report made
by the auditor to the board or to an official of the board.






Auditor to report irregularities




162

(1)


The auditor must report in writing to the board and the minister




(a)

any expenditure that has not been recorded by the board in accordance
with the requirements imposed under section 156 (1) (b),




(b)

any irregularity respecting the assets, liabilities, accounts, funds
or financial obligations of the board,




(c)

the name of any person that the auditor considers responsible for an
irregularity referred to in paragraph (b), and




(d)

any sum that ought to have been but was not brought into account.




(2)

On application by a person named by the auditor in a report under
subsection (1), the auditor must state in writing the auditor's
reasons for that part of the report concerning the named person.




(3)

When the board receives a report under subsection (1), it must
promptly bring the matter to the attention of the appropriate police
authorities and may commence proceedings to recover any loss or
damage.






Unauthorized expenditures




163

(1)


If the auditor considers that an expenditure is not authorized by any
enactment, the auditor must report the unauthorized expenditure to the
board and any other person considered appropriate.




(2)

A person who believes or has reason to believe that a proposed
expenditure is not authorized by an enactment and who authorizes or
permits the expenditure is, on proof that the expenditure is not
authorized by an enactment, guilty of an offence.






Duty to assist auditor




164


Every trustee and every officer or employee of the board must make
available all records required by the auditor, and must give the
auditor every reasonable assistance and furnish the information and
explanations concerning the affairs of the board that the auditor
considers necessary to complete the audit.






Auditor's power to obtain records




165

(1)


For the purposes of an audit under this Act, the auditor may, in
writing, require any person holding or accountable for records, money
or securities




(a)

to produce the records, money or securities, and




(b)

to appear before the auditor and make and sign a declaration as to the
accuracy of the records so produced.




(2)

A person who neglects or refuses to comply with the auditor's
requirements under subsection (1) commits an offence.




(3)

A person who makes or signs a declaration under subsection (1),
knowing it to be false, commits an offence.




(4)

The auditor must not, without the approval of the board or an order of
a court, remove any records, money or securities from the office of
the board or other place where they are kept.




(5)

An auditor who contravenes subsection (4) commits an offence.






Elector may object




166

(1)


An elector of the school district may deliver to the auditor a written
objection respecting any item of account or other matter relating to
an audit so long as the objection is delivered within 3 months
after the publication of the auditor's final report.




(2)

On receipt of an objection under subsection (1), the auditor must
notify the elector and the board of a time and place for dealing with
the objection.




(3)

This Part must not be construed to prevent an elector, or a group of
electors, from exercising any right to take action for recovery on
behalf of the school district.




Contents
|


Part 1
|


Part 2
|


Part 3
|


Part 4
|


Part 5
|


Part 6
|


Part 6.1
|


Part 7
|

Part 8 |

Part 8.1
|


Part 9
|


Schedule




