





View Complete Statute



Land Title Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 250



Part 9 — Air Space Titles





Definitions




138


In this Part:



"air space parcel"

means a volumetric parcel, whether or not occupied in whole or in part
by a building or other structure, shown as such in an air space plan;



"air space plan"

means a plan that




(a)

is described in the title to it as an air space plan,




(b)

shows on it one or more air space parcels consisting of or including
air space, and




(c)

complies with the requirements of section 144;



"geodetic elevation"

means an elevation derived from a source approved by the Surveyor
General.






Air space is land




139


Air space constitutes land and lies in grant.






Covenant to grant easements or to convey restrictive covenants not
implied




140

(1)


A grant of an air space parcel does not transfer to the grantee an
easement of any kind whatsoever nor does it imply a covenant
restrictive of use nor a covenant to convey another portion of the
grantor's land.




(2)

Unless expressly granted, the title to the air space above the upper
limits and below the lower limits of an air space parcel remain in the
grantor.






Subdivision of land into air space parcels




141

(1)


An owner in fee simple whose title is registered under this Act may,
by the deposit of an air space plan, create one or more air space
parcels separated by surfaces and obtain indefeasible titles for them.




(2)

The air space parcel created by the plan devolves and may be
transferred, leased, mortgaged or otherwise dealt with in the same
manner and form as other land the title to which is registered under
this Act.




(3)

An air space parcel may be subdivided in accordance with the

Strata Property Act

.






Air space parcels in respect of highways




142

(1)


If the title to all or part of a highway is vested solely in the Crown
in right of the Province or in the BC Transportation Financing
Authority, the minister charged with the administration of the

Transportation Act

may apply to register the title to all or part of the highway in the
Crown in right of the Province or in the BC Transportation and
Financing Authority, as the case may be, and, on registration, the
government may create air space parcels and deal with them in
accordance with this Act but, if the right of possession to a highway
is vested, by an enactment, in a municipality, the minister charged
with the administration of the

Transportation Act

must obtain the municipality's consent before creating or dealing in
air space parcels.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council, on the
recommendation of the minister charged with the administration of the

Transportation Act

, may authorize a municipality that has a statutory right of
possession to a highway to create air space parcels and to deal with
them under this Act.




(3)

If the title to all or part of a highway is vested solely in a
municipality, the council may, by bylaw, authorize an application to
be made for the registration of the municipality's title to all or
part of the highway and, on registration, the municipality may create
air space parcels and deal with them under this Act.




(4)

For the purpose of this section, an indefeasible title may be
registered for all or part of a highway.






Air space plan




143

(1)


An air space plan must not be accepted for deposit by the registrar
unless




(a)

the title to the land of which the air space parcels are part is
registered in the register of indefeasible fees, and




(b)

the land of which the air space parcels are part is shown as a single
parcel on a subdivision plan or a reference plan deposited under this
Act.




(2)

The registrar must examine the application and the air space plan
produced in support of it and, if satisfied that they are in order and
in compliance with this Act, must assign to the plan a serial deposit
number and register new indefeasible titles to the air space parcels.






Air space plan




144

(1)


An air space plan must




(a)

have its side boundary limits consist of vertical or inclined surfaces
conforming to or lying within the boundaries of the single parcel
referred to in section 143 (1) (b),




(b)

have as its upper and lower limit a horizontal or inclined plane or
arc of a circle, or combination of them,




(c)

have a title, identifying the single parcel on the plan referred to in
section 143 (1) (b) and indicating that the plan is a subdivision of
the whole or part of that parcel,




(d)

have noted on it the geodetic elevation of one corner of the ground
surface of the single parcel referred to in section 143 (1) (b) and
the geodetic elevation of every corner or angle of the air space
parcel,




(e)

include




(i)

a plot to scale of the single parcel referred to in section 143 (1)
(b), and




(ii)

a 3 dimensional paraline drawing of the air space parcel contained
between the planes or arcs and, if the surfaces of the air space
parcel are both horizontal and vertical the plan must so state,
otherwise all boundaries of the air space parcel must be fully
dimensioned for length and direction, and




(f)

contain a book of reference that




(i)

allots a parcel letter or number to each air space parcel by reference
to the lettered or numbered corners of it as shown on the plan, or as
otherwise designated by a rule made under section 385 (5), and




(ii)

states the cubic contents of each air space parcel.




(2)

An air space plan tendered for deposit must




(a)

be prepared by a British Columbia land surveyor and bear the statement
approved by the director,




(b)

[Repealed 2023-10-461.]




(c)

comply with the rules respecting surveys and plans made under section
385 (5) for the purposes of this Part,




(d)

be signed and witnessed in the same manner as is required under this
Act for a subdivision plan,




(e)

comply with subsection (1), and




(f)

be approved by the proper approving officer.






Taxation




145


An estate or interest in an air space parcel, if separately owned,
must be separately assessed for taxation for all types of rates,
assessments and taxes authorized to be assessed against land and
improvements by any Act.






Application




146

(1)


Part 8 applies to an air space plan.




(2)

Part 7 does not apply to this Part.




Contents
|


Part 1
|


Part 2
|


Part 3
|


Part 4
|


Part 5
|


Part 6
|


Part 7
|


Part 8
|

Part 9 |

Part 10
|


Part 10.1
|


Part 11
|


Part 12
|


Part 13
|


Part 14
|


Part 15
|


Part 16
|


Part 17
|


Part 18
|


Part 19
|


Part 19.1
|


Part 20
|


Part 21
|


Part 22
|


Part 23
|


Part 24
|



Part 24.01

|


Part 24.1
|


Part 24.2
|


Part 25
|



Schedule 1

|



Schedule 2





