
Insurance Act
[RSBC 2012] CHAPTER 1

Deposited with Clerk of the Legislative

Assembly on June 21, 2012





STATUTORY CONDITIONS





The contract




1.

The application, this policy, any document attached to this
policy when issued and any amendment to the contract agreed on
in writing after this policy is issued constitute the entire
contract and no agent has authority to change the contract or
waive any of its provisions.





Material facts




2.

No statement made by the insured or a person insured at the time
of application for the contract may be used in defence of a
claim under or to avoid the contract unless it is contained in
the application or any other written statements or answers
furnished as evidence of insurability.





Changes in occupation




3.
(1)

If after this policy is issued the person insured engages for
compensation in an occupation that is classified by the insurer
as more hazardous than that stated in the contract, the
liability under the contract is limited to the amount that the
premium paid would have purchased for the more hazardous
occupation according to the limits, classification of risks, and
premium rates in use by the insurer at the time the person
insured engaged in the more hazardous occupation.





(2)

If the person insured changes occupation from that stated in the
contract to an occupation classified by the insurer as less
hazardous and the insurer is so advised in writing, the insurer
must either






(a)

reduce the premium rate, or






(b)

issue a policy for the unexpired term of the contract at the
lower rate of premium applicable to the less hazardous
occupation,







according to the limits, classification of risks, and premium
rates used by the insurer at the date of receipt of advice of
the change in occupation, and must refund to the insured the
amount by which the unearned premium on the contract exceeds the
premium at the lower rate for the unexpired term.





Termination of insurance




4.
(1)

The contract may be terminated






(a)

by the insurer giving to the insured 15 days' notice of
termination by registered mail or 5 days' written notice of
termination personally delivered, or






(b)

by the insured at any time on request.





(2)

If the contract is terminated by the insurer,






(a)

the insurer must refund the excess of premium actually paid by
the insured over the prorated premium for the expired time, but
in no event may the prorated premium for the expired time be
less than any minimum retained premium specified in the
contract, and






(b)

the refund must accompany the notice.





(3)

If the contract is terminated by the insured, the insurer must
refund as soon as practicable the excess of premium actually
paid by the insured over the short rate premium calculated to
the date of receipt of the notice according to the table in use
by the insurer at the time of termination.





(4)

The 15 day period referred to in subparagraph (1) (a) of this
condition starts to run on the day the registered letter or
notification of it is delivered to the insured's postal address.





Notice and proof of claim




5.
(1)

The insured or a person insured, or a beneficiary entitled to
make a claim, or the agent of any of them, must






(a)

give written notice of claim to the insurer







(i)

by delivery of the notice, or by sending it by registered mail
to the head office or chief agency of the insurer in the
province, or







(ii)

by delivery of the notice to an authorized agent of the insurer
in the province,








not later than 30 days after the date a claim arises under the
contract on account of an accident, sickness or disability,






(b)

within 90 days after the date a claim arises under the contract
on account of an accident, sickness or disability, furnish to
the insurer such proof, as is reasonably possible in the
circumstances, of







(i)

the happening of the accident or the start of the sickness or
disability,







(ii)

the loss caused by the accident, sickness or disability,







(iii)

the right of the claimant to receive payment,







(iv)
the claimant's age, and






(v)

if relevant, the beneficiary's age, and






(c)

if so required by the insurer, furnish a satisfactory
certificate as to the cause or nature of the accident, sickness
or disability for which claim is made under the contract and, in
the case of sickness or disability, its duration.





Failure to give notice or proof





(2)

Failure to give notice of claim or furnish proof of claim within
the time required by this condition does not invalidate the
claim if






(a)

the notice or proof is given or furnished as soon as reasonably
possible, and in no event later than one year after the date of
the accident or the date a claim arises under the contract on
account of sickness or disability, and it is shown that it was
not reasonably possible to give the notice or furnish the proof
in the time required by this condition, or






(b)

in the case of the death of the person insured, if a declaration
of presumption of death is necessary, the notice or proof is
given or furnished no later than one year after the date a court
makes the declaration.





Insurer to furnish forms for proof of claim




6.

The insurer must furnish forms for proof of claim within
15Â days after receiving notice of claim, but if the
claimant has not received the forms within that time the
claimant may submit a proof of claim in the form of a written
statement of the cause or nature of the accident, sickness or
disability giving rise to the claim and of the extent of the
loss.





Rights of examination




7.

As a condition precedent to recovery of insurance money under
the contract,






(a)

the claimant must give the insurer an opportunity to examine the
person of the person insured when and as often as it reasonably
requires while a claim is pending, and






(b)

in the case of death of the person insured, the insurer may
require an autopsy, subject to any law of the applicable
jurisdiction relating to autopsies.






When money payable other than for loss of time





8.

All money payable under the contract, other than benefits for
loss of time, must be paid by the insurer within 60 days after
it has received proof of claim.





When loss of time benefits payable




9.

The initial benefits for loss of time must be paid by the
insurer within 30 days after it has received proof of claim, and
payment must be made after that date in accordance with the
terms of the contract but not less frequently than once in each
succeeding 60 days while the insurer remains liable for the
payments if the person insured, when required to do so,
furnishes proof of continuing sickness or disability before
payment.


