





View Complete Regulation






B.C. Reg. 76/84

O.C. 518/84


Deposited March 19, 1984






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Wildlife Act


Closed Areas Regulation

[Last amended July 1, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 157/2022]


Schedule 1


No Shooting, Hunting or Trapping Areas


(Section 2)





Bergenham and Moberly




1


That portion of the Province, in the vicinity of Moberly Station,
Kootenay Land District, that is within the following boundaries:



Commencing at Moberly Station on the Canadian Pacific Railway; thence
easterly to the centre line of Highway 1, thence northwesterly along
the centre line of Highway 1 to the southerly boundary of Sublot 13 of
Section 21, Township 28, Range 22, W5M, Kootenay Land District; thence
westerly along the boundary to its intersection with the boundary of
Burges and James Gadsden Park; thence easterly and northerly along the
park boundary to the intersection with the south bank of the Blaeberry
River; thence westerly along the south bank of the Blaeberry River to
the east bank of the Columbia River; thence southerly along the east
bank of the Columbia River to a point due West of Moberly Station;
thence due East to the point of commencement, and including the
following areas in Township 28, Range 22, W5M, Kootenay Land District:
the Southwest quarter of Section 15; that portion of the Southeast
quarter of Section 16 lying east of the Canadian Pacific Railway right
of way; that portion of the North half of Section 16 lying east of the
Canadian Pacific Railway right of way; the Southeast quarter of
Section 21, excluding any of the area of the Canadian Pacific Railway
right of way as shown on Plan 633B.

[am. B.C. Reg. 151/2006, s. 2 (a).]





Columbia Lake and River




2


That portion of the Province, in the vicinity of Columbia Lake,
Kootenay Land District, that is within the following boundaries:



The portion of the Columbia River and Columbia Lake, below the high
water level and including all marshes, sand and gravel bars, located
in M.U.s 4-25 and 4-26 bounded at the south on Columbia Lake by a
straight line running between the southeast corner of Lot 450,
Kootenay Land District, and the mouth of Warspite Creek, and at the
north by the south side of the Highway 93/95 bridge over the Columbia
River.






Delkatla




3


That portion of the Province, in the vicinity of the Village of
Massett, that is within the following boundaries:


All land and water contained within District Lots 7, 7A and 11 (except
those portions included in Plans 946, 946A, 946B, 5574, 7450 and
7466), Queen Charlotte Land District.






George C. Reifel




4


That portion of the Province, in the vicinity of the Corporation of
Delta, that is within the following boundaries:



Commencing at the midpoint of the channel separating District Lot 470
(Albion Island) and District Lot 473 (Harlock Island), NWD; thence in
a southerly direction parallel to "D" cross dyke on District Lot 194
(Reifel Island) to a point in the middle of Ewen Slough to meet a line
drawn due North from the property line separating District Lot 192A
and the Department of National Defence property; thence from the
southeast corner of said property due West to the north bank of London
Slough; thence along the north bank of London Slough to the point
where the slough forks; thence due West to a point 2 508 m in an
east-west line from the sea dyke; thence on a bearing of 47 east of
north (true) for 1 125 m; thence on a bearing of 17° east of north
(true) for 894 m; thence on a bearing of 31° east of north (true) to
intersect the stone dyke extending west from the northwest corner of
Reifel Island; thence along the northern edge of the stone dyke to the
point of intersection of the Reifel property; thence easterly along
said property line to the point of commencement.






Lucy Island




5


That portion of the Province, in the vicinity of Langara Island, Queen
Charlotte Land District, that is within the following boundaries:



All of Lucy Island above the low water mark, designated as Lot 678,
Queen Charlotte Land District.






McDougall




6


That portion of the Province that is within the following boundaries:



Commencing at the intersection of the Sage Creek Forest access road
and the northern boundary of Lot 7335, Kootenay Land District, and
proceeding in an easterly direction along the access road to the
western boundary of Lot 7277; thence proceeding northeast in a
straight line for 50 m; thence proceeding due South to Sage Creek;
thence southwesterly along Sage Creek to the access road which joins
with the Sage Creek Forest road; thence proceeding easterly then
northerly along that access road to the point of commencement.






McGillivray Creek




7


That portion of the Province, in the vicinity of the City of
Chilliwack, that is within the following boundaries:



Commencing at the junction of the north bank of McGillivray Creek and
Little Sumas River; thence in a northerly and westerly direction
following the east and north banks of the Little Sumas River to the
south shoreline of the Fraser River; thence following the south
shoreline of the Fraser River in a northeasterly, southeasterly and
easterly direction to Miller Slough where it enters the Fraser River;
thence southerly following the west bank of Miller Slough to the south
boundary of the Provincial Dyke; thence southwesterly and southerly
along the south boundary of the dyke to the north bank of McGillivray
Creek; thence westerly along the north bank of McGillivray Creek to
the point of commencement.






Reidemann




8


That portion of the Province, in the vicinity of Alkali Lake, Lillooet
Land District, that is within the following boundaries:



All of Alkali Lake below the mean high water mark.






Robert W. Starratt




9


That portion of the Province, in the vicinity of the Village of
Valemount, that is within the following boundaries:



Lots 7127, 7128, 7129, 7130, 7132, 7133, 7134, 7139, 7140, 8351, 8352,
8353, 8357, 8358 and 8454, Cariboo Land District.






Serpentine River




10


That portion of the Province, in the vicinity of Mud Bay, NWD, that is
within the following boundaries:



The portion of MU 2-4 between the Serpentine River and Nicomekl River
and including Lots 450, Group 2 and 160, Group 2; fraction Northeast
quarter of Section 33, Township 1; Southeast quarter Section 4,
Township 2, NWD; the most northerly boundary of the area being the
north bank of the Serpentine River between Highway 499 and
Highway 99.






Repealed




11


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 190/96, s. 2.]






Tunkwa Lake




12


That portion of the Province, in the vicinity of Tunkwa Lake, Kootenay
Land District, that is within the following boundaries:



The largest island in Tunkwa Lake, being in Township 19, Range 21,
W6M, Kootenay Land District.






Wasa Slough




13


That portion of the Province, in the vicinity of Wasa Station,
Kootenay Land District, that is within the following boundaries:



Commencing at Wasa Station on the Canadian Pacific Railway, thence
southerly along the railway right of way to its intersection with the
south boundary of Lot 131, Kootenay Land District; thence easterly
along the boundary to the east side of Highway 93; thence northerly
along Highway 93 to the abandoned right of way of Highway 93; thence
northerly and westerly along the abandoned right of way to its
intersection with Highway 93; thence northerly along the east side of
Highway 93 to a point due East of Wasa Station; thence due West to the
point of commencement.






Ward Lake




14


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
Grand Forks within the following described boundaries:



Lot 30 of Lots 334, 1494 and 333, Similkameen Division of Yale
District, Plan 8423.

[am. B.C. Reg. 162/87, s. 1.]





Elizabeth Lake




15


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
the City of Cranbrook being District Lot 17, Parcel 1 of DD 5963-I and
Parcel A of District Lot 3912, Plan 4061 K.D.

[en. B.C. Reg. 224/92, s. 2.]





Repealed




16


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 405/95.]






Gwaii Haanas National Park Reserve




17


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 6-12 being
Moresby Island South of a line described as follows:



Commencing at the intersection of the 52° 50' 05" parallel of north
latitude with the 131° 20' 10" meridian of west longitude
(said intersection being a point in Hecate Strait approximately 10 km
northeasterly of Lost Islands); thence westerly in a straight line to
the ordinary high water mark at the most northeasterly point of Tangil
Peninsula at Porter Head at approximate latitude 52° 48' 35"
and approximate longitude 131° 39' 20" (said line passing
approximately 2 km north of Lost Islands); thence southwesterly in a
straight line to the most easterly peak on the Tangil Peninsula at
approximate latitude 52° 48' 10" and approximate longitude
131° 40' 39"; thence generally westerly along the watershed
boundary that separates those creeks that flow into Dana Inlet from
those that flow into Logan Inlet, to the peak at the intersection of
the northerly boundary of the watershed of Crescent Inlet with the
said watershed boundary that separates those creeks that flow into
Dana Inlet from those that flow into Logan Inlet (said peak being at
approximate latitude 52° 46' 37" and approximate longitude
131° 49' 09"); thence southwesterly in a straight line to
the northeast corner of Lot 663; thence southerly and westerly along
the easterly and southerly boundaries of said Lot 663 to the
intersection with the southerly boundary of the watershed of Crescent
Inlet; thence generally westerly along the southerly boundaries of the
watershed of said Crescent Inlet and of Tasu sound, being also a
portion of the southerly boundary of Tree Farm Licence 24 Block 2, to
a point on the O.H.W.M. at Tasu Head, said southerly boundaries
crossing in sequence the summits of Apex Mountain, Mount de la Touche,
Mount Oliver and Mount Moody; thence southwesterly in a straight line
to the intersection of the 52° 40' 36" parallel of north
latitude with the 132° 13' 16" meridian of west longitude
said intersection being a point in the Pacific Ocean approximately 10
km from said point on the O.H.W.M. at Tasu Head.


[en. B.C. Reg. 225/98, s. 1; am. B.C. Reg. 151/2006, s. 2 (b).]




Contents
|



Sections 1 to 12

|

Schedule 1 |


Schedule 2

|



Schedule 3

|



Schedule 4

|



Schedule 5 to 5.1

|



Schedule 6

|



Schedule 7

|



Schedule 8

|



Schedule 8.1

|



Schedule 9

|



Schedule 10 to 13

|



Schedule 14

|



Schedule 15





