





View Complete Statute



Tsawwassen First Nation Final Agreement Act
[SBC 2007] CHAPTER 39


Schedule


Tsawwassen First Nation Final Agreement




CHAPTER 20

TAXATION




DIRECT TAXATION



1. Tsawwassen Government may make laws in respect of:


a. Direct taxation of Tsawwassen Members within Tsawwassen Lands in
order to raise revenue for Tsawwassen First Nation purposes;


b. the implementation of any taxation agreement entered into between
Tsawwassen First Nation and Canada or British Columbia.


2. Tsawwassen Government powers provided for in subclause 1.a will not
limit the taxation powers of Canada or British Columbia.


3. Despite clause 59 of the General Provisions chapter, any Tsawwassen
Law made under this chapter or any exercise of power by Tsawwassen First
Nation, is subject to and will conform with International Legal
Obligations in respect of taxation, and clauses 30 through 34 of the
General Provisions chapter do not apply in respect of International
Legal Obligations in respect of taxation.




TAXATION POWERS AGREEMENTS



4. From time to time, at the request of Tsawwassen First Nation, Canada
and British Columbia, together or separately, may negotiate and attempt
to reach agreement with Tsawwassen First Nation in respect of:


a. the extent, if any, to which the power of Tsawwassen Government under
subclause 1.a may be extended to apply to Persons, other than Tsawwassen
Members, within Tsawwassen Lands; and


b. the manner in which the taxation powers of Tsawwassen Government
under subclause 1.a, as extended by the application of subclause 4.a,
will be coordinated with existing federal or provincial tax systems,
including:


i. the amount of tax room that Canada or British Columbia may be
prepared to vacate in favour of taxes imposed by Tsawwassen First
Nation; and


ii. the terms and conditions under which Canada or British Columbia may
administer, on behalf of Tsawwassen First Nation, taxes imposed by
Tsawwassen First Nation.


5. Despite the provisions of the Governance chapter, Parties to an
agreement under clause 4 may provide for an alternative approach to the
appeal, enforcement or adjudication of a Tsawwassen Law in respect of
taxation.


6. Tsawwassen Law with respect to taxation may provide for:


a. a fine that is greater than the limits set out in clause 133 of the
Governance chapter; or


b. a term of imprisonment that is greater than the limit set out in
clause 135 of the Governance chapter,


where there is an agreement to that effect as contemplated in clause 4.




TSAWWASSEN LANDS



7. Tsawwassen First Nation is not subject to capital taxation, including
real property taxes and taxes on capital or wealth, in respect of the
estate or interest of Tsawwassen First Nation in Tsawwassen Lands on
which there are no improvements or on which there is a Designated
Improvement.

8. In clause 7, "Designated Improvement" means:
a. a residence of a Tsawwassen Member;

b. an improvement, all or substantially all of which is used for a
Public Purpose or a purpose ancillary or incidental to the Public
Purpose, including:


i. a public governance or administration building, public meeting
building, public hall, public school or other public educational
institution, teacherage, public library, public health facility, public
care facility, public seniors home, public museum, place of public
worship, manse, fire hall, police facility, court, correction facility,
public recreation facility, public park, or an improvement used for
Tsawwassen cultural or spiritual purposes;


ii. works of public convenience constructed or operated for the benefit
of Tsawwassen Members, occupiers of Tsawwassen Lands or persons visiting
or in transit through Tsawwassen Lands, including public utility works,
public works used to treat or deliver water or as part of a public sewer
system, public roads, public bridges, public drainage ditches, traffic
signals, street lights, public sidewalks, and public parking lots; or

iii. similar improvements;

c. an improvement that is used primarily for the management, protection
or enhancement of a natural resource, including a forestry, fishery or
wildlife resource, other than an improvement that is used primarily in
harvesting or processing a natural resource for profit; and

d. forest resources and forest roads.

9. In subclause 8.b, "Public Purpose" does not include the provision of
property or services primarily for the purpose of profit.

10. For the purposes of clauses 7 and 8:

a. for greater certainty, Tsawwassen Lands include the improvements on
those lands; and


b. an improvement is deemed to be on the land that is necessarily
ancillary to the use of the improvement.


11. For greater certainty, the exemption from taxation in clause 7 does
not apply to a taxpayer other than Tsawwassen First Nation nor does it
apply in respect of a disposition of Tsawwassen Lands or interests in
those lands by Tsawwassen First Nation.


12. For Canada and British Columbia income tax purposes, proceeds of
disposition received by Tsawwassen First Nation on expropriation of
Tsawwassen Lands in accordance with the Lands chapter will not be
taxable.




TRANSFER OF TSAWWASSEN CAPITAL



13. A transfer under this Agreement of Tsawwassen Capital and a
recognition of ownership under this Agreement of Tsawwassen Capital is
not taxable.


14. For purposes of clause 13, an amount paid to a Tsawwassen Member is
deemed to be a transfer of Tsawwassen Capital under this Agreement if
the payment:


a. reasonably can be considered to be a distribution of a Capital
Transfer received by Tsawwassen First Nation; and


b. becomes payable to the Tsawwassen Member within 90 days and is paid
to the Tsawwassen Member within 270 days from the date that Tsawwassen
First Nation receives the Capital Transfer.


15. For Canada and British Columbia income tax purposes, Tsawwassen
Capital is deemed to have been acquired by Tsawwassen First Nation at a
cost equal to its fair market value on the later of:

a. the Effective Date; and

b. the date of transfer of ownership or the date of recognition of
ownership, as the case may be.




INDIAN ACT TAX EXEMPTION AND TRANSITIONAL EXEMPTION



16. Section 87 of the
Indian Act
will have no application to a Tsawwassen Member:


a. in respect of Transaction Taxes, as of the first day of the first
month after the eighth anniversary of the Effective Date; and


b. in respect of all other taxes, as of the first day of the first
calendar year after the 12th anniversary of the Effective Date.


17. Subject to subclauses 1.a and 4.a and clauses 18 to 21, as of the
Effective Date, the following is exempt from taxation:


a. the interest of an Indian in Tsawwassen Lands that were Reserve lands
or Surrendered Lands on the day before the Effective Date;


b. the personal property of an Indian situated on Tsawwassen Lands that
were Reserve lands on the day before the Effective Date; and


c. an Indian in respect of the ownership, occupation, possession or use
of any property referred to in subclause 17.a or 17.b.

18. Clause 17 will cease to be effective:

a. in respect of Transaction Taxes, as of the first day of the first
month after the eighth anniversary of the Effective Date; and


b. in respect of all other taxes, as of the first day of the first
calendar year after the 12th anniversary of the Effective Date.


19. Clause 17 will be interpreted to exempt an Indian in respect of a
property or interest, or in respect of the ownership, occupation,
possession or use thereof, in the same manner and under the same
conditions in which section 87 of the
Indian Act
would have applied, but for this Agreement, if the property were
situated on, or the interest were in, a Reserve.


20. Clause 17 only applies to an Indian during the period that section
87 of the
Indian Act
applies to the Indian.


21. If Tsawwassen First Nation imposes a tax within Tsawwassen Lands and
concludes a tax agreement for that purpose with Canada or British
Columbia as contemplated in clause 4, clause 17 does not apply to the
extent that the Tsawwassen First Nation, Canada or British Columbia, as
the case may be, imposes a tax that the particular taxation agreement
specifies is applicable to Tsawwassen Members and other Indians within
Tsawwassen Lands.




TAX TREATMENT AGREEMENT



22. The Parties will enter into a Tax Treatment Agreement, which will
come into effect on the Effective Date.


23. Canada and British Columbia will recommend to Parliament and the
Legislature of British Columbia, respectively, that the Tax Treatment
Agreement be given effect and the force of law under federal and
provincial legislation.



Contents
|



Sections 1 to 21

|



Schedule - Contents

|



Schedule - Preamble

|



Schedule - Chapter 1

|



Schedule - Chapter 2

|



Schedule - Chapter 3

|



Schedule - Chapter 4

|



Schedule - Chapter 5

|



Schedule - Chapter 6

|



Schedule - Chapter 7

|



Schedule - Chapter 8

|



Schedule - Chapter 9

|



Schedule - Chapter 10

|



Schedule - Chapter 11

|



Schedule - Chapter 12

|



Schedule - Chapter 13

|



Schedule - Chapter 14

|



Schedule - Chapter 15

|



Schedule - Chapter 16

|



Schedule - Chapter 17

|



Schedule - Chapter 18

|



Schedule - Chapter 19

|

Schedule - Chapter 20 |


Schedule - Chapter 21

|



Schedule - Chapter 22

|



Schedule - Chapter 23

|



Schedule - Chapter 24

|



Schedule - Chapter 25

|



Schedule - Appendices - Contents

|



Appendices - Introduction

|



Appendix A

|



Appendix B

|



Appendix C

|



Appendix D

|



Appendix E

|



Appendix F

|



Appendix G

|



Appendix H

|



Appendix I

|



Appendix J

|



Appendix K

|



Appendix L

|



Appendix M

|



Appendix N

|



Appendix O

|



Appendix P

|



Appendix Q

|



Appendix R





