





View Complete Regulation






B.C. Reg. 63/88

O.C. 268/88


Deposited February 18, 1988

effective April 1, 1988






This consolidation is current to July 25, 2023.

See the

Cumulative B.C. Regulations Bulletin 2023


for amendments effective after July 25, 2023.





Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Environmental Management Act


Hazardous Waste Regulation

[Last amended March 30, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 76/2022]


Schedule 7

[en. B.C. Reg. 214/2004, s. 11.]

(s. 1 (1) "hazardous waste" (h.1))


Wastes






Description



Type 1

The following spent halogenated solvents used in degreasing:
tetrachloroethylene, trichloroethylene,

methylene chloride, 1,1,1-trichloroethane, carbon tetrachloride,
and chlorinated fluorocarbons; and

sludges from the recovery of these solvents in degreasing
operations



Type 2

The following spent halogenated solvents: tetrachloroethylene,
methylene chloride, trichloroethylene,

1,1,1-trichloroethane, chlorobenzene,
1,1,2-trichloro-1,2,2-trifluoroethane, ortho-dichlorobenzene,

and trichlorofluoromethane; and the still bottoms from the
recovery of these solvents



Type 3

The following spent non-halogenated solvents: xylene, acetone,
ethyl acetate, ethyl benzene,

ethyl ether, methyl isobutyl ketone, n-butyl alcohol,
cyclohexanone; and methanol; and the still

bottoms from the recovery of these solvents



Type 4

The following spent non-halogenated solvents: cresols and cresylic
acid, nitrobenzene; and the

still bottoms from the recovery of these solvents



Type 5

The following spent non-halogenated solvents: toluene, methyl
ethyl ketone, carbon disulphide,

isobutanol, and pyridine; and the still bottoms from the recovery
of these solvents



Type 6

Wastewater treatment sludges from electroplating operations except
for the following processes:

(1) sulphuric acid anodizing of aluminum; (2) tin plating on
carbon steel; (3) zinc plating (on a segregated basis)

on carbon steel; (4) aluminum or aluminum- zinc plating on carbon
steel; (5) cleaning, stripping associated with

tin, zinc, and aluminum plating on carbon steel; and (6) chemical
etching and milling of aluminum



Type 7

Wastewater treatment sludges from the chemical conversion coating
of aluminum



Type 8

Spent cyanide plating bath solutions from non-precious metal
electroplating operations



Type 9

Plating bath sludges from the bottom of plating baths from
electroplating operations where cyanides

are used in the process



Type 10

Spent stripping and cleaning bath solutions from non-precious
metal electroplating operations where

cyanides are used in the process



Type 11

Quenching bath sludge from oil baths from non-precious metal heat
treating operations where

cyanides are used in the process



Type 12

Spent cyanide solutions from salt bath pot cleaning from
non-precious metal heat treating operations



Type 13

Quenching wastewater treatment sludges from non-precious metal
heat treating operations where

cyanides are used in the process



Type 14

Cyanidation wastewater treatment tailing pond sediment from
mineral metals recovery operations



Type 15

Spent cyanide bath solutions from mineral metal recovery
operations



Type 16

Bottom sediment sludge from the treatment of wastewaters from wood
preserving processes

that use creosote or pentachlorophenol



Type 17

Wastewater treatment sludge from the production of chrome yellow
and orange pigments



Type 18

Wastewater treatment sludge from the production of molybdate
orange pigments



Type 19

Wastewater treatment sludge from the production of zinc yellow
pigments



Type 20

Wastewater treatment sludge from the production of chrome green
pigments



Type 21

Wastewater treatment sludge from the production of chromeoxide
green pigments

(anhydrous and hydrated)



Type 22

Wastewater treatment sludge from the production of iron blue
pigments



Type 23

Oven residue from the production of chrome oxide green pigments



Type 24

Distillation bottoms from the production of acetaldehyde from
ethylene



Type 25

Distillation side cuts from the production of acetaldehyde from
ethylene



Type 26

Bottom stream from the wastewater stripper in the production of
acrylonitrile



Type 27

Bottom stream from the acetonitrile column in the production of
acrylonitrile



Type 28

Bottoms from the acetonitrile purification column in the
production of acrylonitrile



Type 29

Still bottoms from the distillation of benzylchloride



Type 30

Heavy ends or distillation residues from the production of carbon
tetrachloride



Type 31

Heavy ends (still bottoms) from the purification column in the
production of epichlorohydrin



Type 32

Heavy ends from the fractionation column in ethyl chloride
production



Type 33

Heavy ends from the distillation of ethylene dichloride in
ethylene dichloride production



Type 34

Heavy ends from the distillation of vinyl chloride in vinyl
chloride monomer production



Type 35

Aqueous spent antimony catalyst waste from fluoromethanes
production



Type 36

Distillation bottom tars from the production of phenol or acetone
from cumene



Type 37

Distillation light ends from the production of phthalic anhydride
from naphthalene



Type 38

Distillation bottoms from the production of phthalic anhydride
from naphthalene



Type 39

Distillation light ends from the production of phthalic anhydride
from ortho-xylene



Type 40

Distillation bottoms from the production of phthalic anhydride
from ortho-xylene



Type 41

Distillation bottoms from the production of nitrobenzene by the
nitration of benzene



Type 42

Stripping still tails from the production of methyl ethyl
pyridines



Type 43

Centrifuge and distillation residues from toluene diisocyanate
production



Type 44

Spent catalyst from the hydrochlorinator reactor in the production
of 1,1,1-trichloroethane



Type 45

Waste from the product stream stripper in the production of
1,1,1-trichloroethane



Type 46

Distillation bottoms from the production of 1,1,1-trichloroethane



Type 47

Heavy ends from the heavy ends columns from the production of
1,1,1-trichloroethane



Type 48

Column bottoms or heavy ends from the combined production of
trichloroethylene

and perchloroethylene



Type 49
Distillation bottoms from aniline production


Type 50

Process residues from aniline extraction from the production of
aniline



Type 51

Combined wastewater streams generated from nitrobenzene or aniline
production



Type 52

Distillation or fractionating column bottoms from the production
of chlorobenzenes



Type 53

Separated aqueous stream from the reactor product washing step in
the production of chlorobenzene



Type 54

By-product salts generated in the production of MSMA and cacodylic
acid



Type 55

Wastewater treatment sludge from the production of chlordane



Type 56

Wastewater and scrub water from the chlorination of
cyclopentadiene in the production of chlordane



Type 57

Filter solids from the filtration of hexachlorocyclopentadiene in
the production of chlordane



Type 58

Vacuum stripper discharge from the chlordane chlorinator in the
production of chlordane



Type 59

Wastewater treatment sludges generated in the production of
creosote



Type 60

Still bottoms from toluene reclamation distillation in the
production of disulfoton



Type 61

Wastewater treatment sludges from the production of disulfoton



Type 62

Wastewater from the washing and stripping of phorate production



Type 63

Filter cake from the filtration of diethylphosphorodithioic acid
in the production of phorate



Type 64

Wastewater treatment sludge from the production of phorate



Type 65

Wastewater treatment sludge from the production of toxaphene



Type 66

Untreated process wastewater from the production of toxaphene



Type 67

Heavy ends or distillation residues from the distillation of
tetrachlorobenzene in the production of 2,4,5-T



Type 68

2,6-Dichlorophenol waste from the production of 2,4-D



Type 69

Untreated wastewater from the production of 2,4-D



Type 70

Wastewater treatment sludges from the manufacturing and processing
of explosives



Type 71

Spent carbon from the treatment of wastewater containing
explosives



Type 72

Wastewater treatment sludges from the manufacturing, formulation,
and loading

of lead-based initiating compounds



Type 73
Pink or red water from TNT operations


Type 74

Dissolved air flotation (DAF) float from the petroleum refining
industry



Type 75

Slop oil emulsion solids from the petroleum refining industry



Type 76

Heat exchanger bundle cleaning sludge from the petroleum refining
industry



Type 77

API separator sludge from the petroleum refining industry



Type 78

Tanks bottoms (leaded) from the petroleum refining industry



Type 79

Ammonia still lime sludge from coking operations



Type 80

Emission control dust or sludge from the primary production of
steel in electric furnaces



Type 81

Spent pickle liquor from steel finishing operations



Type 82

Sludge from lime treatment of spent pickle liquor from steel
finishing operations



Type 83

Acid plant blowdown slurry or sludge resulting from the thickening
of blowdown

slurry from primary copper production



Type 84

Surface impoundment solids contained in and dredged from surface
impoundments

at primary lead smelting facilities



Type 85

Sludge from treatment of process wastewater or acid plant blowdown
from

primary zinc production



Type 86

Electrolytic anode slime or sludge from primary zinc production



Type 87

Cadmium plant leach residue (iron oxide) from primary zinc
production



Type 88

Emission control dust or sludge from secondary lead smelting



Type 89

Waste leaching solution from acid leaching of emission control
dust or sludge from secondary

lead smelting use TOXIC LIQUID, CORROSIVE, INORGANIC, N.O.S.



Type 90

Brine purification muds from the mercury cell process in chlorine
production where

separately prepurified brine is not used



Type 91

Chlorinated hydrocarbon wastes from the purification step of the
diaphragm cell process

using graphite anodes in chlorine production



Type 92

Wastewater treatment sludge from the mercury cell process in
chlorine production



Type 93

Solvent washes and sludges, caustic washes and sludges, or water
washes and sludges

from cleaning tubs and equipment used in the formulation of ink
from pigments, driers,

soaps, and stabilizers containing chromium and lead



Type 94

Wastewater treatment sludges generated during the production of
veterinary

pharmaceuticals from arsenic or organo-arsenic compounds



Type 95

Distillation tar residues from the distillation of aniline-based
compounds in the production

of veterinary pharmaceuticals from arsenic or organo-arsenic
compounds



Type 96

Residue from the use of activated carbon for decolourization in
the production of

veterinary pharmaceuticals from arsenic or organo-arsenic
compounds



Type 97

Decanter tank tar sludge from coking operations



Type 99

Wastes that on contact with water or air, emit toxic gases,
vapours or fumes in sufficient

quantity to present danger to human health or the environment



Type 100

Any cyanide or sulphide bearing waste liable, when exposed to pH
conditions of not less

than 2 and not greater than 12.5, to generate toxic gases in
sufficient quantity to present

danger to human health or the environment






Contents
|



Parts 1 to 4

|



Parts 5 to 10

|



Schedules 1 to 4

|



Schedule 5

|



Schedule 6

|

Schedule 7 |


Schedule 8





