





View Complete Statute



Protected Areas of British Columbia Act
[SBC 2000] CHAPTER 17



Schedule C (cont'd)




MORDEN COLLIERY HISTORIC PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Cranberry District and
contained within the following described boundaries:


Parcel 1 (DD 6974-N) and Parcel 2 (DD 6974-N) of Section 11.


The whole park containing approximately 4 hectares.




MORRISSEY PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Kootenay District and
contained within the following described boundaries:


Those portions of District Lots 2314 and 2315 which are shown as "Park
Reserve" on Plan of Survey No. 2676.


The whole park containing approximately 4.57 hectares.




MORTON LAKE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Sayward District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 38 Tube 1802.


The whole park containing approximately 74 hectares.




MOUNT ASSINIBOINE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Kootenay District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 13 Tube 1927.


The whole park containing approximately 39 013 hectares.




MOUNT BLANCHET PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Cassiar District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 6 Tube 1852.


The whole park containing approximately 24 774 hectares.




MOUNT EDZIZA PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Cassiar District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 9 Tube 1875; except
(1) Mineral Claim "Red Dog 3" 222131; and (2) Mineral Claim "Red Dog 4"
222132.


The whole park containing approximately 266 180 hectares.




MOUNT ELPHINSTONE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in New Westminster District
and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official
Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 8 Tube 1940.


The whole park containing approximately 141 hectares.




MOUNT ERSKINE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in the North Salt Spring
Island Division, Cowichan District and contained within the described
boundaries as shown on the Official Plan deposited in the Crown Land
Registry as Plan 8 Tube 1978.


The whole park containing approximately 107 hectares.




MOUNT MAXWELL PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in South Saltspring Island,
Cowichan District and contained within the described boundaries as shown
on the Official Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 5
Tube 1911.


The whole park containing approximately 231 hectares.




MOUNT POPE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Range 5, Coast District
and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official
Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 10 Tube 1978;
except the Crown land subject to the Regional District of
Bulkley-Nechako Licence of Occupation No. 703487, File 7406922.


The whole park containing approximately 2 030 hectares.




MOUNT RICHARDSON PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in New Westminster District
and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official
Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 33 Tube 1768;
except Licence of Occupation 111141, containing approximately
0.75 hectares on
Land Act
file 2404948 at the Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource
Operations, Nanaimo.


The whole park containing approximately 1 000 hectares.




MOUNT SEYMOUR PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Group 1, New Westminster
District and contained within the following described boundaries:


Firstly: Lots 58, 59 and 60 of District Lot 624, Plan 3259.

Lots A, B and C of District Lot 624, Plan 10949.

Secondly: commencing at the northeast corner of Lot A of District Lot
624, Plan 10949;


thence West along the north boundary of Lot A to the northwest corner of
Lot A;


thence South along the west boundary of Lot A to a point lying due East
of the southeast corner of Block 25 of District Lot 623, Plan 2428;

thence due West to the southeast corner of Block 25;

thence North along the east boundary of Block 25 to the southeast corner
of Lot 9 of Block 25;


thence West along the southerly boundary of Lot 9 to the southwest
corner of Lot 9;


thence West in a straight line to the southeast corner of Lot 8 of Block
25;


thence West along the south boundary of Lot 8 to the southwest corner of
Lot 8;


thence North along the west boundary of Lot 8 to the northwest corner of
Lot 8;


thence North in a straight line to the southwest corner of Lot 1 of
Block 24 of District Lot 623, Plan 2428;


thence West in a straight line to the southeast corner of Lot 17 of
Block 23 of District Lot 623, Plan 2428;


thence West along the south boundary of Lot 17 to the southwest corner
of Lot 17;


thence West in a straight line to the southeast corner of Lot 1 of Block
23;


thence West along the south boundary of Lot 1 to the southwest corner of
Lot 1;


thence West in a straight line to the southeast corner of Lot 17 of
Block 22 of District Lot 623, Plan 2428;


thence West along the south boundary of Lot 17 to the southwest corner
of Lot 17;


thence West in a straight line to the southeast corner of Lot 1 of Block
22;


thence West along the south boundary of Lot 1 to the southwest corner of
Lot 1;


thence North along the west boundary of Block 22 to the northwest corner
of Block 22;


thence North in a straight line to the southwest corner of Lot 1 of
Block 11 of District Lot 623, Plan 2428;


thence North along the west boundaries of Lots 1 and 2 of Block 11 to
the northwest corner of Lot 2;


thence West in a straight line to the southeast corner of Lot 17 of
Block 12 of District Lot 623, Plan 2428;


thence West along the south boundary of Lot 17 to the southwest corner
of Lot 17;


thence West in a straight line to the southeast corner of Lot 3 of Block
12;


thence West along the south boundary of Lot 3 to the southwest corner of
Lot 3;


thence North along the west boundary of Block 12 to the northwest corner
of Block 12;


thence North in a straight line to the southwest corner of Lot 1 of
Block 5 of District Lot 623, Plan 2428;


thence North along the west boundary of Lots 1 to 7 of Block 5 to the
northwest corner of Lot 7;


thence East along the north boundary of Lot 7 to the northeast corner of
Lot 7;


thence East in a straight line to the northwest corner of Lot 13 of
Block 5;


thence East along the north boundary of Lot 13 to the northeast corner
of Lot 13;


thence East in a straight line to the northwest corner of Lot 7 of Block
6 of District Lot 623, Plan 2428;


thence East along the north boundary of Lot 7, Block 6 to the northeast
corner of Lot 7, Block 6;


thence East in a straight line to the northwest corner of Lot 13 of
Block 6;


thence East along the north boundary of Lot 13, Block 6 to the northeast
corner of Lot 13, Block 6;


thence East in a straight line to the northwest corner of Lot 7 of Block
7 of District Lot 623, Plan 2428;


thence East along the north boundary of Lot 7, Block 7 to the northwest
corner of Lot 7, Block 7;


thence East in a straight line to the northwest corner of Lot 13 of
Block 7;


thence East along the north boundary of Lot 13, Block 7 to the northeast
corner of Lot 13, Block 7;


thence East in a straight line to the southwest corner of Lot 8 of Block
8 of District Lot 623, Plan 2428;


thence North along the west boundaries of Lots 8, 9 and 10 W of Block 8
to the northwest corner of Lot 10 W;


thence North in a straight line to the north boundary of District Lot
623;


thence East along the north boundary of District Lot 623 to the
northeast corner of District Lot 623;


thence North along the west boundary of District Lot 625 to a point
lying due West of the southwest corner of Block 4 of District Lot 625,
Plan 2584;

thence due East to the southwest corner of Block 4;

thence East along the south boundary of Lots 50 to 38 of Block 4 to the
southeast corner of Lot 38;


thence North along the east boundary of Lot 38 to the northeast corner
of Lot 38;


thence North in a straight line to the southeast corner of Lot 13 of
Block 4;


thence North along the east boundary of Lot 13 to the northeast corner
of Lot 13;


thence North in a straight line to the southeast corner of Lot 38 of
Block 3 of District Lot 625, Plan 2584;


thence North along the east boundary of Lot 38, Block 3 to the northeast
corner of Lot 38, Block 3;


thence North in a straight line to the southeast corner of Lot 13 of
Block 3;


thence North along the east boundary of Lot 13, Block 3 to the northeast
corner of Lot 13, Block 3;


thence in a straight line to the southeast corner of Lot 38 of Block 2
of District Lot 625, Plan 2584;


thence North along the east boundary of Lot 38, Block 2 to the northeast
corner of Lot 38, Block 2;


thence North in a straight line to the southeast corner of Lot 13 of
Block 2;


thence North along the east boundary of Lot 13, Block 2 to the northeast
corner of Lot 13, Block 2;


thence North in a straight line to the southeast corner of Lot 39 of
Block 1 of District Lot 625, Plan 2584;


thence North along the east boundary of Lot 39, Block 1 to the northeast
corner of Lot 39, Block 1;


thence North in a straight line to the southeast corner of Lot 14 of
Block 1;


thence North along the east boundary of Lot 14, Block 1 to the northeast
corner of Lot 14, Block 1;


thence North in a straight line to the south boundary of District Lot
947;


thence West along the south boundary of Lot 947 to the southwest corner
of Lot 947;


thence North along the west boundary of Lot 947 to the northwest corner
of Lot 947;


thence West along the south boundary of Parcel A, Reference Plan 2699 of
District Lot 946 to the southwest corner of District Lot 946;


thence North along the west boundary of Parcel A to the south boundary
of Block C of District Lot 5083;


thence West along the south boundary of Block C to the southwest corner
of Block C;


thence in a northeast direction along the westerly boundaries of Block
C, Parcel A, Reference Plan 2845 of District Lot 1415 and Parcel A,
Reference Plan 2844 of District Lot 1000 to the west boundary of
District Lot 1005;


thence North along the west boundary of Lot 1005 to the southwest corner
of District Lot 1006;


thence in a general northerly direction along the easterly boundary of
Reference Plan 2637 to the most southerly southeast corner of Plan
21104;


thence in a general northerly direction along the westerly boundary of
Plan 21104 to the most northerly northwest corner of Plan 21104;


thence in a general northerly direction along the westerly boundary of
Parcel "A", Plan 2932 to the northwest corner of Parcel "A";


thence in a general northerly direction along the height of land which
forms the easterly boundary of the watershed of Seymour River to the
point of intersection with westerly boundary of District Lot 5382;


thence northerly along the west boundary of District Lot 5382 to the
northwest corner of District Lot 5382, lying on the height of land
forming the east boundary of the watershed of Seymour River;


thence in a general northerly direction along the watershed boundary of
Seymour River to a point lying due West of the southwest corner of
District Lot 1027;

thence due East to the southwest corner of Lot 1027;

thence East along the south boundary of Lot 1027 to the northwest corner
of District Lot 824;


thence South along the west boundary of Lot 824 to the northeast corner
of District Lot 1350;


thence West along the north boundary of Lot 1350 to the northwest corner
of Lot 1350;


thence South along the west boundaries of Lot 1350 and District Lot 1460
to the southwest corner of Lot 1460;


thence East along the south boundary of Lot 1460 to the northwest corner
of District Lot 872;


thence South along the west boundary of Lot 872 to the north boundary of
District Lot 1404;

thence West to the northwest corner of Lot 1404;

thence South along the west boundaries of Lot 1404 and District Lot 873
to the southwest corner of Lot 873;


thence East along the south boundary of Lot 873 to the northwest corner
of District Lot 1351;


thence South along the west boundaries of Lot 1351 and District Lot 1352
to the north boundary of District Lot 871;


thence West along the north boundary of Lot 871 to the northwest corner
of Lot 871;


thence South along the west boundary of Lot 871 to the north boundary of
District Lot 1353;


thence West, North and West along the north boundary of Lot 1353 to the
northwest corner of Lot 1353;


thence South along the west boundary of Lot 1353 to the southwest corner
of Lot 1353;


thence East along the south boundary of Lot 1353 to the northwest corner
of District Lot 2171;


thence South along the west boundary of Lot 2171 to the northeast corner
of District Lot 2130;


thence West along the north boundary of Lot 2130 to the northwest corner
of Lot 2130;


thence South along the west boundary of Lot 2130 to the northeast corner
of District Lot 1534;


thence West along the north boundary of Lot 1534 to the northwest corner
of Lot 1534;


thence South along the west boundary of Lot 1534 to the north boundary
of District Lot 1009;


thence West along the north boundary of Lot 1009 to the northwest corner
of Lot 1009;


thence South along the west boundaries of Lot 1009 and District Lot 1417
to the north boundary of District Lot 1360;


thence West along the north boundary of Lot 1360 to the northwest corner
of Lot 1360;


thence South along the west boundary of Lot 1360 to the northwest corner
of District Lot 2049;


thence West along the north boundary of Lot 2049 to a point lying due
North of the northeast corner of Lot 2 of Block 3 of District Lot 2049,
Plan 3112;

thence due South to the northeast corner of Lot 2;

thence South along the east boundary of Lot 2 to the southeast corner of
Lot 2;


thence West along the south boundary of Lot 2 and Lot 1, of Block 3 to
the southwest corner of Lot 1;


thence South along the west boundary of Lot 18 of Block 3 to the
southwest corner of Lot 18;


thence South in a straight line to the northwest corner of Block 12 of
Plan 3112;


thence South along the west boundary of Block 12 to the north boundary
of District Lot 2699;


thence southwest along the north boundary of Lot 2699 to the northwest
corner of Lot 2699;


thence South along the west boundary of Lot 2699 to the north boundary
of District Lot 625;


thence West along the north boundary of Lot 625 to a point lying due
North of the northeast corner of Lot 9 of Block 2 of District Lot 625,
Plan 2668;

thence due South to the northeast corner of Lot 9;

thence South along the east boundary of Lot 9 to the southeast corner of
Lot 9;


thence West along the south boundaries of Lots 9 to 4 of Block 12 to the
southwest corner of Lot 4;


thence South in a straight line to the northeast corner of Lot 48 of
Block 12;


thence South along the east boundary of Lot 48 to the southeast corner;


thence South in a straight line to the northeast corner of Lot 3 of
Block 13 of District Lot 625, Plan 2668;


thence South along the east boundary of Lot 3 to the southeast corner of
Lot 3;


thence South in a straight line to the northeast corner of Lot 48 of
Block 13;


thence South along the east boundary of Lot 48, Block 13 to the
southeast corner of Lot 48;


thence South in a straight line to the northeast corner of Lot 3 of
Block 14 of District Lot 625, Plan 2668;


thence South along the east boundary of Lot 3, Block 14 to the southeast
corner of Lot 3;


thence South in a straight line to the northeast corner of Lot 48 of
Block 14;


thence South along the east boundary of Lot 48, Block 14 to the
southeast corner of Lot 48;


thence South in a straight line to the northeast corner of Lot 3 of
Block 15 of District Lot 625, Plan 2668;


thence West along the north boundaries of Lots 3, 2 and 1 of Block 15 to
the northwest corner of Lot 1;


thence South along the west boundary of Lot 1 to the southwest corner of
Lot 1;


thence South in a straight line to the northwest corner of Lot 50 of
Block 15;


thence South along the west boundary of Lot 50 to the southwest corner
of Lot 50;


thence South in a straight line to the northwest corner of Lot 1 of
Block 16 of District Lot 625, Plan 2668;


thence South along the east boundary of Lot 1 to the southwest corner of
Lot 1;


thence South in a straight line to the northwest corner of Lot 50 of
Block 16;


thence South along the west boundary of Lot 50 to the southwest corner
of Lot 50;


thence East in a straight line to the southeast corner of Lot 26 of
Block 5 of District Lot 625, Plan 2584;


thence East along the south boundary of Lots 26, 27 and 28 of Block 5 to
the southwest corner of Lot 28;


thence South in a straight line to the northeast corner of Lot 22 of
Block 6 of District Lot 625, Plan 2584;


thence South along the east boundary of Lot 22 to the southeast corner
of Lot 22;


thence South in a straight line to the northeast corner of Lot 29 of
Block 6;


thence South along the west boundary of Lot 29 to the southeast corner
of Lot 29;


thence West along the south boundaries of Lots 29 and 30 of Block 6 to
the southwest corner of Lot 30;


thence South in a straight line to the northeast corner of Lot 20 of
Block 7 of District Lot 625, Plan 2584;


thence South along the east boundary of Lot 20 to the southeast corner
of Lot 20;


thence South in a straight line to the northeast corner of Lot 31 of
Block 7;


thence South along the east boundary of Lot 31 to the southeast corner
of Lot 31;


thence South in a straight line to the northeast corner of Lot 20 of
Block 8 of District Lot 625, Plan 2584;


thence South along the east boundary of Lot 20 to the southeast corner
of Lot 20;


thence South in a straight line to the northeast corner of Lot 31 of
Block 8;


thence South along the east boundary of Lot 31 to the southeast corner
of Lot 31;


thence West along the south boundary of Lots 31 and 32, of Block 8 to
the southwest corner of Lot 32;


thence South in a straight line to the northeast corner of Lot 18 of
Block 9 of District Lot 625, Plan 2584;


thence West along the north boundaries of Lots 18 to 14 of Block 9 to
the northwest corner of Lot 14;


thence South along the west boundary of Lot 14 to the southwest corner
of Lot 14;


thence South in a straight line to the northwest corner of Lot 37 of
Block 9;


thence South along the west boundary of Lot 37 to the southwest corner
of Lot 37;


thence South in a straight line to the northwest corner of Lot 14 of
Block 10 of District Lot 625, Plan 2584;


thence West in a straight line to the northeast corner of Lot 13 of
Block 10;


thence West along the north boundaries of Lots 13 to 1 of Block 10 to
the northwest corner of Lot 1;


thence due West to the west boundary of District Lot 625;


thence South along the west boundary of Lot 625 to the northwest corner
of District Lot 624;


thence East along the north boundary of Lot 624 to a point lying due
North of the northeast corner of Lot 3 of District Lot Plan 1950;

thence due South to the northeast corner of Lot 3;

thence South along the east boundary of Lot 3 to a point lying 10.05
metres north of the south boundary of Lot 3;


thence East parallel to and 10.05 metres perpendicularly distant from
the south boundaries of Lots 3 and 2 of Plan 1950 to the east boundary
of Lot 1 of Plan 1950;


thence South along the east boundary of Lot 1 to the southeast corner of
Lot 1;


thence South in a straight line to the northeast corner of Lot A of
District Lot 624, Plan 10949, being the point of commencement;


except (1) Lots 1 to 4 and 13 to 16 of Block 6, Lots 1 to 16 of Block 7,
Lots 1 to 16 of Block 8, Lots 1 to 4 and 13 to 16 of Block 9, Lots 1 to
16 of Block 20 and Lots 1 to 4 and 11 to 16 of Block 21, all of District
Lot 2049, Plan 3112; and (2) Mount Seymour Park Road as shown on
Ministry of Transportation's Drawings dated 7/11/91.


Thirdly: those parts of Mount Seymour Park Road contained within Park
Use Permit 1505.


Fourthly: that part of District Lot 1005 known as Deep Cove Lookout.


Fifthly: that part of District Lot 5083 known as Vancouver Lookout.


The whole park containing approximately 3 509 hectares.




MOUNT TERRY FOX PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Cariboo District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 13 Tube 1813.


The whole park containing approximately 1 930 hectares.




MOYIE LAKE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Kootenay District and
contained within the following described boundaries:


Firstly: those parts of District Lots 2799 and 2800 as shown on
Reference Plan 49537D.


Lots 3 to 12 of Block 1 of District Lot 2799, Plan 1514.


Those parts of District Lots 2799 and 2800 dedicated as Promenade on
Plan 1514, except that part described lying south of the southeasterly
prolongation of the north boundary of Lot 2 of Block 1, Plan 1514.


That part of District Lot 2799 dedicated as road on Plan 1514 and lying
south of the northwesterly prolongation of the south boundary of Lot 13
of Block 1, Plan 1514 and lying north of the northwesterly prolongation
of the north boundary of Lot 2 of Block 1, Plan 1514.


Those parts of Lot 1 of District Lot 2800, Plan 8124 lying south of the
Canadian Pacific Railway right of way, Plan 524-U-1.


Secondly: the unsurveyed land described as commencing at the point of
intersection of the southeasterly prolongation of the south boundary of
Lot 13 of District Lot 2799, Plan 1514 and the east boundary of the
promenade shown on Plan 1514;


thence southeast along that prolongation to the natural boundary of
Moyie Lake;


thence in a general northerly direction along the natural boundary of
Moyie Lake to the point of intersection with the southeasterly
prolongation of the northeasterly boundary of Lot 3 of District Lot
2800, Plan 5247;


thence northwest along the Lot 3 boundary prolongation to the point of
intersection with the east boundary of the promenade shown on Plan 1514;


thence in a general southerly direction along the promenade east
boundary to the point of commencement.


Thirdly: those parts of the beds of Moyie River and Peavine Creek
adjacent to District Lot 2800 and lying south of the Canadian Pacific
Railway right of way, Plan 524-U-1.


Fourthly: commencing at the point of intersection of the south boundary
of District Lot 2800, being the natural boundary of Moyie Lake, and the
west boundary of Canadian Pacific Railway right of way Plan 524U1;

thence due South 200 metres;

thence in a general westerly and southwesterly direction along a line
parallel to and 200 metres perpendicularly distant from the elevation of
the natural boundary of Moyie Lake to the point of intersection with the
southeasterly prolongation of the northerly boundary of Lot 2 of Block 1
of District Lot 2799, Plan 1514;


thence northwest along that prolongation to the natural boundary of
Moyie Lake;


thence in a general northerly direction along the natural boundary of
Moyie Lake to the point of commencement.


The whole park containing approximately 90.46 hectares
(69.46 hectares of upland and 21 hectares of foreshore).




M
Q
U

Q
W

IN/BROOKS PENINSULA PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Rupert District and UTM
Zone 9 and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the
Official Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 8
Tube 2004.


The whole park containing approximately 39 936 hectares
(36 005 hectares of upland and 3 931 hectares of
foreshore).




MUD LAKE DELTA PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Kamloops Division, Yale
District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the
Official Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 25
Tube 1779; except District Lot 4696.


The whole park containing approximately 435 hectares.




MUDZENCHOOT PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Cassiar District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 8 Tube 1852.


The whole park containing approximately 644 hectares.




MUNCHO LAKE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Peace River District and
contained within the following described boundaries:


Commencing at Standard Pipe Post No. 92 set on the northerly boundary of
the Alaska Highway right of way, in the vicinity of Mile 427.5, and as
shown on Plan H-489;


thence due South to a point on a line drawn parallel to and 4.83
kilometres perpendicularly distant from the southerly boundary of the
Alaska Highway right of way, Plan H-489;


thence westerly and northerly along a line drawn parallel to and 4.83
kilometres perpendicularly distant from the southerly and westerly
boundaries of the Alaska Highway right of way as shown on Plans H-489,
H-533, H-505, H-542, H-517, H-534, H-541, H-529 and H-461, to its
intersection with the middle line of Prochniak Creek;


thence easterly along the middle line of Prochniak Creek, produced to
its intersection with the middle line of Trout River;


thence due East to the easterly boundary of the watershed of Trout
River;


thence southerly along the easterly boundary of the watershed of Trout
River and Muncho Lake to a point lying due East of the most southerly
point on the southerly shore natural boundary of Muncho Lake;


thence easterly in a straight line to and continuing easterly and
southeasterly along the mainstream of Nonda Creek, on the right bank of
Nonda Creek, to the left bank natural boundary of Toad River;


thence southwesterly along the left bank natural boundary of Toad River
to a point lying due North of Standard Pipe Post No. 92 set on the
northerly boundary of the Alaska Highway right of way, as shown on Plan
H-489;


thence due South to Standard Pipe Post No. 92, being the point of
commencement;


except (1) District Lots 621 to 625, 627, 1168, 1172, 1173, 1174, 1179,
1182, 1183, 1641 and 1650; (2) the 9.75 hectare parcel of land reserved
for Ministry of Transportation, in the vicinity of District Lot 571, and
shown on the plan attached to File 8002605, a copy of which is held on
deposit with the Ministry of Water, Land and Air Protection, Victoria;
and (3) the Alaska Highway right of way as shown on Plans H-489, H-533,
31772, H-542, H-517, H-534, H-541, H-529 and H-461.


The whole park containing approximately 88 420 hectares.




MURRIN PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Group 1, New Westminster
District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the
Official Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 12
Tube 1978.


The whole park containing approximately 32 hectares.




MUSCOVITE LAKES PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Cassiar District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 15 Tube 1870.


The whole park containing approximately 5 708 hectares.




NAHATLATCH PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Yale Division, Yale
District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the
Official Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 14
Tube 1800; except the Crown land that is the subject of: (1) a 30
metre right of way centred on Nahatlatch Lake Forest Service Road
942-6996-00, 01 and 02; (2) a 30 metre right of way centred on Ministry
of Forests' Road Permit R03662; (3) File FN002246, Cutting Permit 27,
Block 6 including allowances for landings and guyline clearances; and
(4) File FN02248 - Helicopter landing (Kookipi FSR).


The whole park containing approximately 2 009 hectares.




NAIKOON PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Queen Charlotte District
and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official
Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 3 Tube 2024.


The whole park containing approximately 69 149 hectares (67 039
hectares of upland and 2 110 hectares of foreshore).




NAIRN FALLS PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Lillooet District and
contained within the following described boundaries:


Commencing at the southeast corner of District Lot 4096, being a point
on the left bank natural boundary of Green River;


thence westerly along the southerly boundary of District Lot 4096 to the
intersection with the southeasterly boundary of Bridge River Power Co.
right of way as shown on Plan B3324;


thence northeasterly along the southeasterly boundaries of Plans B3324,
CG253 (District Lot 5445), B3581 and B3419 to the westerly boundary of
District Lot 5444, Plan CG253;


thence southerly and northeasterly along the westerly and southeasterly
boundaries of District Lot 5444 to the most westerly easterly boundary
of District Lot 239;


thence southerly along the easterly boundary of District Lot 239 to the
southwesterly internal angle of District Lot 239;


thence easterly along the most southerly northerly boundary of District
Lot 239 to the northwesterly boundary of BC Hydro right of way, Plan
C13012;


thence southwesterly along the northwesterly boundary of BC Hydro rights
of way, Plans C13012 and C9525, to the right bank natural boundary of
Green River;


thence in a general easterly direction along the right bank natural
boundary of Green River to a point lying due South of the southwest
corner of District Lot 259;


thence due South to a line drawn parallel to and 201.2 metres
perpendicularly distant from the right bank natural boundary of Green
River;


thence in a general southwesterly direction along a line drawn parallel
to and 201.2 metres perpendicularly distant from the right bank natural
boundary of Green River to a point lying southeasterly in a straight
line on a bearing of 120°30' from the southeast corner of District Lot
4096;


thence northwesterly in a straight line to the southeast corner of
District Lot 4096, being a point on the left bank natural boundary of
Green River, and being the point of commencement;


except (1) District Lot 4148; (2) Plan A19; and (3) Pemberton-Squamish
Highway No. 99.


The whole park containing approximately 170 hectares.




NALBEELAH CREEK WETLANDS PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Range 5, Coast District
and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official
Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 6 Tube 1886;
except Ministry of Forests' Timber Sale Licence A55899 Blocks 1, 2 and
3.


The whole park containing approximately 171 hectares.




NANCY GREENE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Kootenay District and
contained within the following described boundaries:


Commencing at the southeast corner of Block B of District Lot 16358;


thence southerly in a straight line to the northeast corner of District
Lot 13106 and continuing southerly along the easterly boundary of
District Lot 13106 to the southeast corner of District Lot 13106, being
a point on the easterly limit of Highway 3B (Rossland-Sheep Lake
Highway), as shown on Plan R-344;


thence westerly along the southerly boundaries of District Lots 13106,
13105 and 12824 to the intersection of the southerly boundary of
District Lot 12824 with the easterly limit of Highway 3 (Southern
Trans-Provincial) as shown on Plan R-238;


thence northeasterly along the easterly limit of Highway 3 (Southern
Trans-Provincial Highway) as shown on Plan R-238 to the most westerly
point of the southerly limit of Highway 3B (Rossland-Sheep Lake
Highway), as shown on Plan R-344;


thence easterly and southeasterly along the southerly and westerly
limits of Highway 3B (Rossland-Sheep Lake Highway), Plan R-344, to the
intersection of the westerly boundary with the right bank natural
boundary of Blueberry Creek;


thence northeasterly along the right bank natural boundary of Blueberry
Creek to the northeasterly boundary of Block A of District Lot 16358;


thence southeasterly along the northeasterly boundary of Block A of
District Lot 16358 to the most easterly corner of District Lot 16358;


thence southeasterly in a straight line to the most northerly corner of
Block B of District Lot 16358;


thence southeasterly along the northerly boundary of Block B of District
Lot 16358 to the most easterly northeast corner of District Lot 16358;


thence southerly along the easterly boundary of Block B of District Lot
16358 to the southeast corner of District Lot 16358, being the point of
commencement;


except (1) Highway 3B (Rossland-Sheep Lake Highway), as shown on Plan
R-344; and (2) the road shown as 20 metres (66 feet) in width on Plan 2
Tube 723 on file with the Surveyor General of British Columbia.


The whole park containing approximately 203 hectares.




NETALZUL MEADOWS PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Cassiar District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 2 Tube 1788.


The whole park containing approximately 292 hectares.




NICKEL PLATE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Similkameen Division,
Yale District and contained within the following described boundaries:


Commencing at a point at the northeast corner of District Lot 3316
S
;

thence due East 804.6 a distance of metres;
thence due North 1 207 a distance of metres;
thence due West 1 207 a distance of metres;

thence due South approximately 1 005.8 metres to the shore of Nickel
Plate Lake;


thence northeasterly, southeasterly and southwesterly along the shore of
Nickel Plate Lake to the point of commencement.


The whole park containing approximately 105 hectares.




NICOLUM RIVER PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Yale Division, Yale
District and contained within the following described boundaries:


Firstly: Legal Subdivision 12 of Section 5, Township 5, Range 25, West
of the Sixth Meridian, except the Hope-Princeton Highway No. 3 as shown
on Ministry of Transportation's Plan Number H-80, dated January 16, 1995
and on Plan 37730;


Secondly: the south 1/2 of Legal Subdivision 13 of Section 5, Township
5, Range 25, West of the Sixth Meridian;


Thirdly: that part of Nicolum Creek within Legal Subdivision 12 and the
south 1/2 of Legal Subdivision 13, both of Section 5, Township 5, Range
25, West of the Sixth Meridian.


The whole park containing approximately 18 hectares.




NILKITKWA LAKE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Cassiar District and
contained with the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 10 Tube 1788.


The whole park containing approximately 10.3 hectares.




NIMPKISH LAKE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Rupert District and
contained within the following described boundaries:


Commencing at the northeast corner of District Lot 226, being on the
west shore natural boundary of Nimpkish Lake;


thence westerly, southerly and easterly along the northerly, westerly
and southerly boundaries of District Lot 226 to the intersection with
the right bank natural boundary of Tlakwa Creek;


thence southerly along the natural boundary of Tlakwa Creek to the
intersection with the northerly boundary of Section 38;


thence westerly and southerly along the northerly and westerly
boundaries of Section 38 to the northwest corner of Section 39;


thence southerly along the westerly boundary of Section 39 to the point
of intersection with the right bank natural boundary of Tlakwa Creek;


thence westerly along the right bank natural boundary of Tlakwa Creek to
a point, lying due West 2.22 kilometres and due North approximately 400
metres from the southwesterly corner of Section 38, and is the point of
intersection of the right bank natural boundary of an unnamed creek,
tributary to the right bank of Tlakwa Creek;


thence westerly along the natural boundary of an unnamed creek a
distance of 200 metres;


thence westerly in a straight line to the height of land forming the
watershed boundary between an unnamed creek and Tlakwa Creek;


thence in a general westerly, northerly and northeasterly direction
along the southerly, westerly and northerly boundaries of the watershed
of Tlakwa Creek to the point of intersection with the easterly boundary
of the watershed of Karmutzen Creek;


thence in a general northerly direction along the easterly boundary of
the watershed of Karmutzen Creek to a point lying due South 240 metres
and due West approximately 2.1 kilometres from the northwest corner of
District Lot 1263;


thence due East to the point of intersection of the westerly shore
natural boundary of Nimpkish Lake;


thence southerly along the natural boundary of Nimpkish Lake to the
northeast corner of District Lot 226, being the point of commencement.


The whole park containing approximately 3 949.8 hectares.




NINGUNSAW PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Cassiar District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 1 Tube 2003.


The whole park containing approximately 15 704 hectares.




NISKONLITH LAKE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Kamloops Division, Yale
District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the
Official Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 8
Tube 1902.


The whole park containing approximately 275 hectares
(243 hectares of upland and 32 hectares of foreshore).




NITINAT RIVER PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Renfrew District and
Barclay District and contained within the following described
boundaries:


Firstly: commencing at the most easterly northeast corner of "Saouk"
Indian Reserve No. 16, Barclay District;


thence southerly along the most easterly boundary of "Saouk" Indian
Reserve No. 16 to the most easterly southeast corner of "Saouk" Indian
Reserve No. 16;


thence due South a distance of 125 metres to a point lying in Renfrew
District;


thence southeasterly on a bearing of 130° a distance of 425 metres;

thence due South a distance of 150 metres;

thence due East to the point of intersection with the westerly boundary
of the Canadian National Railway right of way as shown on Plan 1 T 155
Rlys on file in the Crown Land Registry Services Branch in Victoria;


thence in a general northeasterly direction along the westerly boundary
of Canadian National Railway RW to the point of intersection with the
northerly boundary of Block B, Section 51, Renfrew District;


thence westerly along the northerly boundary to the most easterly
northeast corner of "Saouk" Indian Reserve No. 16, being the point of
commencement;


except all roads covered by Ministry of Forests' Road Permit R07655.


Secondly: commencing at the intersection of the northwesterly boundary
of the C.N. Railway Plan 53 RW;


thence southwesterly, northwesterly and southwesterly along the
northwesterly boundary of Plan 53 RW to a point lying due East of the
northeast corner of Section 16, Renfrew District;

thence due North a distance of 900 metres;

thence due East to a point on the westerly boundary of Block B, Section
51, Renfrew District;


thence southeasterly on a bearing of 135° to its intersection with the
northwesterly boundary of Plan 53 RW;


thence southwesterly along the northwesterly boundary of Plan 53 RW to
the point of commencement;


except all roads covered by Ministry of Forests' Road Permit R07655.


The whole park containing approximately 160 hectares.




NORBURY LAKE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Kootenay District and
contained within the following described boundaries:

Sublots 1 and 8 of District Lot 318.

The whole park containing approximately 97 hectares.




NORTH THOMPSON ISLANDS PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Kamloops Division, Yale
District and contained within the following described boundaries:


Commencing at a point on the left bank natural boundary of North
Thompson River lying due West of the northeast corner of District Lot
2025;


thence southeasterly along the natural boundary of North Thompson River
to a point lying due South 130 metres and due West approximately 200
metres from the northeast corner of District Lot 2026;


thence northwesterly on a bearing of 278° a distance of 710 metres;


thence southwesterly on a bearing of 240° a distance of 420 metres;


thence northwesterly in a straight line to the southeast corner of
District Lot 1833, being a point on the right bank natural boundary of
North Thompson River;


thence in general northwesterly and northeasterly directions along the
natural boundary of North Thompson River to the northeast corner of
District Lot 1833;

thence due East a distance of 80 metres;

thence northeasterly on a bearing of 17° a distance of 400 metres;


thence northeasterly on a bearing of 70° to the left bank natural
boundary of North Thompson River;


thence southerly along the natural boundary of North Thompson River to a
point lying due West of the northeast corner of District Lot 2025, being
the point of commencement.


The whole park containing approximately 78.6 hectares.




NORTH THOMPSON OXBOWS EAST PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Kamloops Division, Yale
District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the
Official Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 9
Tube 1784; except the Crown land that is the subject of (1) Timber
Licence T0713, Block 12, CP "F"; and (2) Timber Licence T0713, Block 12
B.


The whole park containing approximately 288 hectares.




NORTH THOMPSON OXBOWS MANTEAU PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Kamloops Division, Yale
District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the
Official Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 8
Tube 1784; except the Crown land that is the subject of Timber
Licence T0713, Block 12 A.


The whole park containing approximately 516 hectares.




NORTH THOMPSON RIVER PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Kamloops Division, Yale
District and contained within the following described boundaries:

Firstly: District Lot 3899.

That part of District Lot 1682 lying east of Plan A1383.


That part of District Lot 1641 shown as road on Plan 24642 except Plan
A1383.


Secondly: that part of District Lot 1602 lying east of Highway 5 (Plan
H-11130) except Plan A1383, and that part described as commencing at the
southwest corner of District Lot 1602;


thence North along the westerly boundary of District Lot 1602 a distance
of 429 metres;

thence due East 168 metres;

thence due South approximately 429 metres to the south boundary of
District Lot 1602;


thence West along the south boundary of District Lot 1602 to the point
of commencement.

Thirdly: Lot 1 of District Lot 73, Plan 9223.

The whole park containing approximately 126 hectares.




NUCHATLITZ PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Nootka District and
contained within the following described boundaries:


Commencing at the northwest corner of District Lot 431, being on the
natural boundary of Esperanza Inlet;


thence due East 150 metres along the northerly boundary of District Lot
431;


thence southeasterly in a straight line to a point on the easterly
boundary of District Lot 432 lying 150 metres due North of the southeast
corner of District Lot 432;


thence southerly along the easterly boundaries of District Lots 432 and
433 to the southeast corner of District Lots 432 and 433;


thence easterly along the northerly boundaries of District Lots 439 and
429 to the most northerly northeast corner of District Lot 429, being a
point on the westerly shore natural boundary of Owossitsa Lake;


thence in a general southeasterly direction along the natural boundary
of Owossitsa Lake to the most easterly northeast corner of District Lot
429;


thence southerly along the easterly boundary of District Lot 429 to the
southeast corner of District Lot 429, being a point on the northeasterly
shore natural boundary of Port Langford;


thence southwesterly on a bearing of 240° a distance of 500 metres;

thence due South a distance of 2.20 kilometres;
thence due West a distance of 4.40 kilometres;
thence due North a distance of 5.30 kilometres;

thence due East to a point on the natural boundary of Esperanza Inlet,
being the westerly boundary of District Lot 430;


thence southwesterly along the natural boundary of Esperanza Inlet to
the point of commencement;


except (1) "Nuchatl" Indian Reserve No. 1; (2) "Nuchatl" Indian Reserve
No. 2; (3) "Ahpukto" Indian Reserve No. 3; (4) "Opemit" Indian Reserve
No. 4; (5) District Lot 435; and (6) the Crown Land that is the subject
of an application dated April 25, 1996, under File Nos. 1400087 and
1403596 and generally described as:


Firstly: commencing at a point lying 50 metres due West of a "Post"
located on the westerly shore of District Lot 438 as shown on a map in
BC Lands, Licence of Occupation 102249;

thence due West 150 metres;
thence due North 200 metres;
thence due East 250 metres;

thence southwesterly in a straight line to the point of commencement.


Secondly: commencing at a point lying 60 metres due North of a "Post"
located on the northerly shore of District Lot 436A as shown on a map in
BC Lands, Licence of Occupation 103907;

thence due North 250 metres;
thence due East 80 metres;
thence due South 250 metres;
thence due West to the point of commencement.

Thirdly: commencing at a point lying 10 metres due North of a "Post"
located on the northwesterly shore of District Lot 437 as shown on a map
in BC Lands, Licence of Occupation 103907;

thence due North 25 metres;
thence due West 100 metres;
thence due South 25 metres;
thence due East to the point of commencement.

The whole park containing approximately 2 105 hectares
(442 hectares of upland and 1 663 of foreshore).




OCTOPUS ISLANDS MARINE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Sayward District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 11 Tube 2010; except
District Lots 1072 and 1076.


The whole park containing approximately 862 hectares
(404 hectares of upland and 458 hectares of foreshore).




OKANAGAN LAKE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Osoyoos Division, Yale
District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the
Official Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 22
Tube 1914; except the right of way of the Okanagan Highway No. 97
and the land required for the right of way expansion of Highway No. 97,
as shown on Kamloops Land Title Office Plans H578, KAP36630 and
KAP77074.


The whole park containing approximately 90 hectares
(69 hectares of upland and 21 hectares of foreshore).


[

OKANAGAN MOUNTAIN PARK
. Description repealed 2016-14-1.]




OKEOVER ARM PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Group 1, New Westminster
District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the
Official Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 7
Tube 2013.


The whole park containing approximately 3 hectares.




OLIVER COVE MARINE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Range 3, Coast District
and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official
Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 3 Tube 1971.


The whole park containing approximately 62 hectares
(37 hectares of upland and 25 hectares of foreshore).


[

OMINECA PARK
. Description repealed 2015-4-3.]




ONE ISLAND LAKE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Peace River District and
contained within the following described boundaries:


Commencing at the most easterly southeast corner of Lot 2027;

thence South 35°40'00" East 261.56 metres;
thence South 48°22'10" West 623.72 metres;

thence North 36°00'40" West approximately 261.56 metres to the southeast
boundary of Lot 2029;


thence northeasterly and northwesterly along the southeasterly and
northeasterly boundaries of Lot 2029 to the most northerly corner of Lot
2029, being a point on the easterly shore natural boundary of One Island
Lake;


thence in a general northerly direction along the natural boundary of
One Island Lake, being also the natural boundary of Lot 2027, to the
most southerly southwest corner of Lot 2026;


thence southwesterly, northwesterly, and northeasterly along the
southeasterly, southwesterly and northwesterly boundaries of Lot 2028 to
the most northerly northeast corner of the Lot 2028, being a point on
the natural boundary of One Island Lake;


thence northeasterly along the northwest boundary of Lot 2026 to the
most easterly southeast corner of Lot 2025;


thence northwesterly along the northeasterly boundary of Lot 2025 to the
most northerly northeast corner of Lot 2025;

thence North 53°54'40" East 462.76 metres;
thence South 35°40'00" East 583.48 metres;

thence South 53°54'40" West approximately 402.40 metres to the
northeasterly boundary of Lot 2027;


thence southeasterly along the northeasterly boundary of Lot 2027 to the
most easterly southeast corner of Lot 2027, being the point of
commencement, except (1) the public road right of way; and (2) Petroleum
and Natural Gas Tenure 7304.


The whole park containing approximately 61 hectares.




OTTER LAKE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Osoyoos Division, Yale
District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the
Official Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 5
Tube 2016.


The whole park containing approximately 55 hectares.




OWYACUMISH RIVER PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Range 4, Coast District
and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official
Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 7 Tube 1886.


The whole park containing approximately 805 hectares
(803 hectares of upland and 2 hectares of foreshore).




PAARENS BEACH PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Range 5, Coast District
and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official
Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 10 Tube 1808;
except Sowchea Road right of way as shown on Plan 10375.


The whole park containing approximately 50 hectares.




PEACE ARCH PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in New Westminster District
and contained within the following described boundaries:


Firstly: the North 55.47 metres (182 feet) of Lot 3 of Section 6,
Township 7 as shown on Plan 7026, containing approximately 1.00 hectare.


Secondly: the 2.323 hectare (5.74 acres) portion of "Semiahmoo" Indian
Reserve in Section 1, Township 1 as shown outlined in red on Sketch Plan
8688.


Thirdly: commencing at the southwest corner of Section 6, Township 7,
ECM, being a point on the southerly boundary of the Province;


thence easterly along the southerly boundary of the Province to a point
lying due South of the southeast corner of Lot 12 of Section 6, Township
7, Plan 3240;


thence due North to the southeast corner of Lot 12, Plan 3240;


thence northerly along the easterly boundaries of Lots 12, 13 and 15,
Plan 3240, to a point on the easterly boundary of Lot 15 lying due East
of the northeast corner of the 0.1295 hectare (0.32 acre) portion of Lot
15 as shown on Sketch Plan 7182;


thence due West to the northeast corner of 0.1295 hectare (0.32 acre)
portion of Lot 15, as shown on Sketch Plan 7182, and continuing westerly
along the northerly boundary of 0.1295 hectare parcel and the westerly
prolongation of the northerly boundary, produced to the westerly
boundary of Section 6, Township 7, ECM;


thence northerly along the westerly boundary of Section 6, Township 7,
ECM a distance of 56.87 metres;


thence due West to the westerly boundary of Peace Arch Highway right of
way, as shown on Plan 5391;


thence southerly along the westerly boundary of Peace Arch Highway right
of way, as shown on Plan 5391, and continuing southerly along the
westerly boundary of the 0.2428 hectare (0.60 acre) portion of
"Semiahmoo" Indian Reserve, as shown on Sketch Plan 7555, to the
southerly boundary of the Province;


thence easterly along the southerly boundary of the Province to the
southwest corner of Section 6, Township 7, ECM, being the point of
commencement;


except those portions of the Peace Arch Highway right of way deemed to
be arterial highways and contained within the described boundaries of
Plan 5391.


The whole park containing approximately 9 hectares.




PENNASK LAKE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Kamloops Division, Yale
District and contained within the following described boundaries:

Commencing at the southeast corner of Lot 4253;

thence westerly along the southerly boundary of Lot 4253 to the easterly
boundary of Lot 4821;


thence southerly along the easterly boundary of Lot 4821 to the
northeasterly shore natural boundary of Pennask Lake;


thence southerly in a straight line to the northeast corner of Lot 4834,
being a point on the southwesterly shore natural boundary of Pennask
Lake;


thence southerly and westerly along the easterly and southerly
boundaries of Lot 4834 to the easterly shore natural boundary of Pennask
Lake;


thence in a general southerly and westerly direction along the natural
boundary of Pennask Lake to the northeast corner of Lot 3759;


thence southerly along the easterly boundary of Lot 3759 a distance of 5
chains;


thence due East to the westerly shore natural boundary of Peterson Lake;


thence in a general northwesterly direction along the natural boundary
of Peterson Lake to the southerly boundary of Lot 5882;


thence westerly and northerly along the southerly and westerly
boundaries of Lot 5882 to the southerly boundary of Lot 4252;


thence westerly and northerly along the southerly and westerly
boundaries of Lot 4252 to the northwest corner of Lot 4252;


thence northerly in a straight line to the southeast corner of Lot 4253
being the point of commencement.


The whole park containing approximately 244 hectares.




PENROSE ISLAND MARINE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Range 2, Coast District
and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official
Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 4 Tube 1971.


The whole park containing approximately 2 095 hectares
(945 hectares of upland and 1 150 hectares of foreshore).




PETROGLYPH PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Nanaimo District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 10 Tube 1911.


The whole park containing approximately 1.8 hectares.




PILOT BAY PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Kootenay District and
contained within the following described boundaries:


Firstly: commencing at the southwest corner of Sublot 80 of District Lot
4595, Plan X31;


thence easterly, northerly and westerly along the southerly, easterly
and northerly boundaries of Sublot 80, Plan X31, to the southeast corner
of District Lot 270;


thence northerly and westerly along the easterly and northerly
boundaries of District Lot 270 to the easterly boundary of District Lot
207;


thence northerly and westerly along the easterly and northerly
boundaries of District Lot 207 to the northeast corner of Plan 15710,
being a point on Pilot Bay Road and a point on the northerly boundary of
District Lot 207;


thence southerly along the easterly boundary of Plan 15710 to the most
easterly southeast corner of Plan 15710, being a point on the northerly
shore natural boundary of Pilot Bay;


thence in a general southeasterly direction along the natural boundary
of Pilot Bay to the northwest corner of Lot 1 of District Lot 207, Plan
1315, being a point on the easterly shore natural boundary of Pilot Bay;


thence southwesterly in a straight line, on a bearing of 215°, a
distance of 220 metres;

thence due South a distance of 604 metres;

thence due East to the easterly shore natural boundary of Kootenay Lake;


thence in a general southeasterly direction along the easterly shore
natural boundary of Kootenay Lake to the southwest corner of Sublot 80
of District Lot 4595, Plan X31, being the point of commencement;


except that portion of Pilot Bay Road lying to the south of Reference
Plan 82607
I
and to the East of Plan 15710.


Secondly: that portion of Pilot Peninsula lying to the south and west of
a line described as commencing at the southeast corner of Lot 3 of
District Lot 207, Plan 4827, being a point on the westerly shore natural
boundary of Pilot Bay;


thence northwesterly along the southwesterly boundaries of Lot 3 to the
most westerly corner of Lot 3;


thence in a general northerly direction along the westerly boundaries of
the 20 metre (66 foot) road, dedicated on Plan 4827, to the southeast
corner of Lot 1 of District Lot 207, Plan 4827;


thence westerly, northerly and westerly along the southerly, westerly
and southerly boundaries of Lot 1, Plan 4827, to the most westerly
southwest corner Lot 1, being a point on the easterly shore natural
boundary of Kootenay Lake.


The whole park containing approximately 347 hectares
(313 hectares of upland and 34 hectares of foreshore).




PINE RIVER BREAKS PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Peace River District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 8 Tube 1841.


The whole park containing approximately 614 hectares.




PINNACLES PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Cariboo District and
contained within the following described boundaries:


The most westerly 1 005.8 metres of Lot 8651, and that portion of
unsurveyed Crown land lying south of Lot 8651, and north of Baker Creek,
except the Crown land that is the subject of Plan 28062.


The whole park containing approximately 124.39 hectares.




PIRATES COVE MARINE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Nanaimo District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 30 Tube 1909.


The whole park containing approximately 32 hectares
(26 hectares of upland and 6 hectares of foreshore).




PLUMPER COVE MARINE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Group 1, New Westminster
District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the
Official Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 11
Tube 1911; except Lease 232808 "Shelter Island Estates" (log
hauling site) Land and Water British Columbia Inc. File No. 0190086.


The whole park containing approximately 66 hectares
(33 hectares of upland and 33 hectares of foreshore).




PORCUPINE MEADOWS PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Kamloops Division, Yale
District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the
Official Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 10
Tube 1773.


The whole park containing approximately 2 703 hectares.




PORPOISE BAY PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Group 1, New Westminster
District and contained within the following described boundaries:

Firstly: Lots 10 to 36, Block 1;

Lots 1 to 22, Block 2, of District Lot 1557, Plan 3661.


Secondly: that part of the old right of way of Sechelt Inlet Road
covering Lots 14, 15, 24 and 25, Block 1 of District Lot 1557, Plan 3661
(this covers the right of way which was replaced by the new right of way
as shown on Ministry of Transportation's District Plan 31012-40 dated
80-10-24);

except the right of way of Sechelt Inlet Road.

The whole park containing approximately 61 hectares.




PORTEAU COVE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Group 1, New Westminster
District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the
Official Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 2
Tube 1898.


The whole park containing approximately 56 hectares
(4 hectares of upland and 52 hectares of foreshore).




PREMIER LAKE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Kootenay District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 14 Tube 1809; except
(1) a 30 metre right of way centred on Ministry of Forests' Road Premier
Lake No. 7612.01; and (2) Ministry of Transportation's Premier Lake Road
No. 151 shown on District Plan 23-24.


The whole park containing approximately 837 hectares.




PRINCESS LOUISA MARINE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Group 1, New Westminster
District and contained within the following described boundaries:


Firstly: District Lots 4212 and 5385, together with Parcel "A" of
District Lot 4211, as shown on Reference Plan 4645.


Secondly: District Lot 4820, being Macdonald (Hamilton) Island, and
those unnamed islands surveyed as District Lots 3530 and 3534.


Thirdly: all that foreshore or land covered by water, at the head of
Princess Louisa Inlet, lying to the North of a line drawn due West of a
point on the easterly shore natural boundary of Princess Louisa Inlet
lying 221 metres due South and approximately 101 metres due West from
the southeast corner of District Lot 5385.

Fourthly: District Lots 3514, 3515, 3524 and 3525.

The whole park containing approximately 964 hectares
(936 hectares of upland and 27 hectares of foreshore).




PROPHET RIVER WAYSIDE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Peace River District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 22 Tube 1802.


The whole park containing approximately 113 hectares.




PRUDHOMME LAKE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Range 5, Coast District
and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official
Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 14 Tube 2012.


The whole park containing approximately 9 hectares.




PTARMIGAN CREEK PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Cariboo District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 2 Tube 1831.


The whole park containing approximately 3 329 hectares.




PUNTCHESAKUT LAKE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Cariboo District and
contained within the following described boundaries:

Firstly: District Lot 11835.

Secondly: the unsurveyed Crown land described as commencing at the
southeast corner of District Lot 11835;


thence South along the southerly prolongation of the east boundary of
District Lot 11835 a distance of 400 metres;


thence due West a distance of approximately 200 metres to the east shore
natural boundary of Puntchesakut Lake;


thence in a general northerly direction along the natural boundary of
Puntchesakut Lake to the point of intersection with the south boundary
of District Lot 11835;


thence easterly along the south boundary of District Lot 11835 to the
point of commencement.


The whole park containing approximately 38 hectares.




PURDEN LAKE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Cariboo District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 8 Tube 1849.


The whole park containing approximately 2 521 hectares.




PURE LAKE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Queen Charlotte District
and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official
Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 27 Tube 1914.


The whole park containing approximately 142 hectares.




PYRAMID CREEK FALLS PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Kamloops Division, Yale
District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the
Official Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 17
Tube 1779.


The whole park containing approximately 12 hectares.




QUATSINO PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Rupert District and
contained within the following described boundaries:


Commencing at the southeast corner of "Koprino" Indian Reserve No. 10,
being a point on the northerly shore natural boundary of Koprino
Harbour;


thence due South a distance of approximately 150 metres to the middle
line of an arm of Koprino Harbour;


thence southeasterly along the middle line of an arm of Koprino Harbour
and the southeasterly prolongation of Koprino Harbour, to a point of
intersection with the southeasterly shore natural boundary of Koprino
Harbour;


thence in a general southerly and westerly direction along the natural
boundary of Koprino Harbour to the northeast corner of "Clatux" Indian
Reserve No. 9;


thence southerly, westerly and northerly along the easterly, southerly
and westerly boundaries of "Clatux" Indian Reserve No. 9 to the
northwest corner of "Clatux" Indian Reserve No. 9, and being on the
easterly shore natural boundary of Koprino Harbour;


thence in a general southerly, easterly and northerly direction along
the natural boundary of Koprino Harbour to a point lying due North 150
metres and due East approximately 400 metres from the northeast corner
of Lot 1, Block A, District Lot 1005, Plan 3702;


thence northwesterly on a bearing of 335° a distance of approximately
300 metres to a point on a height of land;

thence due West a distance of one kilometre;

thence northwesterly on a bearing of 315° a distance of 240 metres;

thence due West a distance of 400 metres;

thence northwesterly on a bearing of 310° a distance of approximately 2
kilometres to the intersection with the southerly boundary of a road
south of Simpson Creek;


thence in a general westerly direction along that southerly boundary to
the intersection with the left bank natural boundary of Simpson Creek;


thence westerly along the natural boundary of Simpson Creek to the
intersection with the easterly boundary of "Koprino" Indian Reserve No.
10;


thence southerly along the easterly boundary of "Koprino" Indian Reserve
No. 10 to the southeast corner of "Koprino" Indian Reserve No. 10, being
the point of commencement.


The whole park containing approximately 654.2 hectares.




RAFT COVE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Rupert District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 11 Tube 1915.


The whole park containing approximately 787 hectares
(444 hectares of upland and 343 hectares of foreshore).




RATHTREVOR BEACH PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Nanoose District and
contained within the following described boundaries:


Firstly: District Lots 41 and 59, except from District Lot 59, Lot 1 as
shown on Plan 18359.


Secondly: commencing at the northwest corner of District Lot 41, being a
point on the natural boundary of the Strait of Georgia;


thence northeasterly in a straight line on a bearing of 20° a distance
of 282 metres;

thence due East a distance of 1.8 kilometres;

thence southeasterly in a straight line on a bearing of 168° a distance
of 1.5 kilometres;


thence southwesterly in a straight line to the northeast corner of Lot 1
of District Lot 59, Plan 18359, being a point on the westerly shore
natural boundary of the Strait of Georgia;


thence in a general northerly and northwesterly direction along the
westerly shore natural boundary of the Strait of Georgia to the
northwest corner of District Lot 41, being a point on the natural
boundary of the Strait of Georgia, and being the point of commencement.


The whole park containing approximately 347 hectares
(107 hectares of upland and 240 hectares of foreshore).




REARGUARD FALLS PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Cariboo District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 39 Tube 1802.


The whole park containing approximately 46 hectares.




REBECCA SPIT MARINE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Sayward District and
contained within the following described boundaries:


Commencing at the southeast corner of District Lot 33, being a point on
the easterly shore natural boundary of Quadra Island;


thence northeasterly in a straight line, on a bearing of 65° a distance
of 402 metres;


thence northwesterly in a straight line on a bearing of 325° a distance
of 2.2 kilometres;

thence due West a distance of 604 metres;
thence due South a distance of 423 metres;

thence southeasterly in a straight line to the southwest corner of
District Lot 1490;


thence due East to the southwest corner of District Lot 33, and
continuing easterly along the southerly boundary of District Lot 33 to
the southeast corner of District Lot 33, being the point of
commencement.


The whole park containing approximately 177 hectares
(22 hectares of upland and 155 hectares of foreshore).




RED BLUFF PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Range 5, Coast District
and contained within the following described boundaries:


Firstly: commencing at the northeast corner of Lot 7911, lying on the
natural boundary of Babine Lake;


thence in a westerly direction along the northerly boundary of Lot 7911
approximately 101 metres to the easterly boundary of the right of way of
the Topley Landing Road 118, shown on Road Survey Plan 5778;


thence in a general northerly direction along the right of way of the
Topley Landing Road 118 a distance of 1.33 kilometres;

thence due North 1.01 kilometres;
thence due East 120.70 metres;
thence due North 80.47 metres;

thence due East approximately 151 metres to the natural boundary of
Babine Lake;


thence in a general southerly, then easterly, then southerly, then
westerly and then southerly direction following the natural boundary of
Babine Lake to a westerly and then southerly direction following the
natural boundary of Babine Lake to the point of commencement;


except the Crown land that is the subject of the right of way of the
Topley Landing Road 118, shown on Road Survey Plan 5778 and containing
approximately 83 hectares.


Secondly: all foreshore described as commencing at the northeast corner
of Lot 7911, being a point on the westerly shore natural boundary of
Babine Lake;


thence in a general northerly direction along the westerly shore natural
boundary of Babine Lake to a point lying due West of another point lying
2.29 kilometres due North from the northeast corner of Lot 7911;

thence due East 100 metres;

thence in a line parallel to and 100 metres perpendicularly distant from
the natural boundary of Babine Lake following a general southerly
direction to a point lying 100 metres due East of the most easterly
point of Red Bluff Point, being 310 metres East and 1.57 kilometres
north of the northeast corner of Lot 7911;


thence southwesterly in a straight line to the point of commencement and
containing approximately 65 hectares.


The whole park containing approximately 148 hectares.




RENDEZVOUS ISLAND SOUTH PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Sayward District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 2 Tube 1804.


The whole park containing approximately 164 hectares
(113 hectares of upland and 51 hectares of foreshore).




ROBERTS CREEK PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in New Westminster District
and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official
Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 9 Tube 1901;
except the Sunshine Coast Highway No. 101 as shown on Plan 15
Tube 1136 on deposit in the Crown Land Registry.


The whole park containing approximately 40 hectares
(39 hectares of upland and 1 hectare of foreshore).




ROBERTS MEMORIAL PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Cedar District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 9 Tube 1895.


The whole park containing approximately 14 hectares.




ROLLEY LAKE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Group 1, New Westminster
District and contained within the following described boundaries:


Lots 15 and 16 of the southwest 1/4 of Section 26, Plan 1664.

Lot 1 of the southeast 1/4 of Section 26, Plan 25494.

The north 1/2 of the southeast 1/4 of Section 26 except the easterly
201.17 metres of Section 26.

The southeast 1/4 of the northwest 1/4 of Section 26.

The northeast 1/4 of Section 26 except that part lying to the northwest
of straight line which connects the mid points of the north boundary and
west boundary of the northeast 1/4 of Section 26.


The west 1/2 of the northwest 1/4 of the northwest 1/4 of Section 25.


The whole park containing approximately 115 hectares.




ROSCOE BAY PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Group 1, New Westminster
District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the
Official Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 4
Tube 1901.


The whole park containing approximately 242 hectares
(190 hectares of upland and 52 hectares of foreshore).




ROSEBERY PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Kootenay District and
contained within the following described boundaries:


Lots 1 to 12 and Lots 15 to 29 of Block 1 of Lot 298, shown on Plan 569
Nelson, also the Fractional south 1/2 of Lot 2334 except the Crown land
that is the subject of the 40 foot road easement granted to the Big Bend
Lumber Company Limited.


The whole park containing approximately 32 hectares.




ROSEWALL CREEK PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Newcastle District and
contained within the following described boundaries:


That part of District Lot 87, Plan 1871 commencing at the southwest
corner of District Lot 35;

thence South to the north boundary of District Lot 95;

thence East along the north boundary of District Lot 95 to the northeast
corner of District Lot 95;


thence due East to the west boundary of District Lot 29;


thence northerly along the westerly boundaries of District Lots 29 and
15 to the southeast corner of District Lot 50;


thence West along the south boundary to the southwest corner of District
Lot 50;


thence southerly along the east boundary of District Lot 35 to the
southeast corner of District Lot 35;


thence westerly along the south boundary of District Lot 35 to the
southwest corner of District Lot 35, being the point of commencement,
except (1) the Crown land that is the subject of Highway Plan RW816,
Reference Highways Drawing R6-V4334-H103; and (2) Esquimalt and Nanaimo
Railway right of way Plan DD17251-N.


The whole park containing approximately 54.3 hectares.




ROSS LAKE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Cassiar District and
contained within the following described boundaries:


Firstly: Block A of District Lot 2121 except that part of a 335.3 metre
long and 60.96 metre wide strip of land which is south of the Canadian
National Railway right of way boundary and lays between Miles 42.67 and
42.43 of the Canadian National Railway right of way.


Secondly: District Lot 795, except the Canadian National Railway right
of way as shown on Map 1162 and that part of a 335.3 metre long and
60.96 metre wide strip of land which is south of the Canadian National
Railway right of way boundary and lays between Miles 42.67 and 42.43 of
the Canadian National Railway right of way.


Thirdly: the bed of Ross Lake (formerly known as Six Mile Lake) as shown
on the Field Book Plans for Block A of District Lots 2121 and 795.


The whole park containing approximately 307 hectares.




RUBYROCK LAKE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Range 5, Coast District
and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official
Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 7 Tube 1927;
except (1) a 30 metre right of way centred on the existing access roads
to "Ilch'Az Uz Ta Tsoh" Indian Reserve No. 44 and "Ucausley" Indian
Reserve No. 4; and (2) a 30 metre right of way centred on the existing
access roads to "Ye Koo Che" Indian Reserve No. 3.


The whole park containing approximately 41 221 hectares.




RUCKLE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in South Saltspring Island
South Division, Cowichan District and contained within the described
boundaries as shown on the Official Plan deposited in the Crown Land
Registry as Plan 1 Tube 1979.


The whole park containing approximately 529 hectares.




RUGGED POINT MARINE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Rupert District and
Nootka District and contained within the described boundaries as shown
on the Official Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 13
Tube 1808.


The whole park containing approximately 349 hectares
(162 hectares of upland and 187 hectares of foreshore).




RUTH LAKE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Lillooet District and
contained within the following described boundaries:


Commencing at the southeast corner of District Lot 7551;

thence due East 300 metres;

thence due North approximately 1 207 metres to a point lying due East of
the northeast corner of District Lot 7692;


thence due West to the point of intersection with the east shore natural
boundary of Ruth Lake;


thence in a general southerly direction along the natural boundary of
Ruth Lake to the point of intersection with the east boundary of
District Lot 551;


thence South along the east boundary of District Lot 7551 to the point
of commencement;


except the Crown land that is the subject of District Lot 7692, Eagle
Creek Road as shown on Highways Drawing A339 and the road right of way
in District Lot 7692.


The whole park containing approximately 30 hectares.




RYAN PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Kootenay District and
contained within the following described boundaries:

Lot 12260.

The whole park containing approximately 58 hectares.




ST. MARY'S ALPINE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Kootenay District and
contained within the following described boundaries:


Commencing at a point on the southeasterly boundary of the watershed of
Spade Creek lying due West of the most northerly northwest corner of Sub
Lot 50 of District Lot 4592, Plan X30;


thence northeasterly in a straight line on a bearing of 45° to the
easterly boundary of the watershed of White Creek;


thence northerly, westerly and southerly along the easterly, northerly
and westerly boundaries of the watershed of White Creek, passing through
the summits of Mount Alton, Mount St. Mary, Nowitka Mountain, Trinity
Mountain and Mount Manson, to the southeasterly boundary of the
watershed of Spade Creek;


thence northeasterly along the southeasterly boundary of the watershed
of Spade Creek to the point of commencement.


The whole park containing approximately 9 146 hectares.




SABINE CHANNEL MARINE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Nanaimo District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 3 Tube 1962.


The whole park containing approximately 2 254 hectares
(164 hectares of upland and 2 090 hectares of foreshore).




SALTERY BAY PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Group 1, New Westminster
District and contained within the following described boundaries:


Firstly: commencing at the point of intersection of the southwest corner
of District Lot 2091 and the natural boundary of Jervis Inlet;


thence in a general westerly direction along the natural boundary of
Jervis Inlet to a point, being the southeast corner of District Lot
4121;


thence northerly along the easterly boundary of District Lot 4121 to the
northeast corner of District Lot 4121;


thence northeasterly in a straight line to the northwest corner of
District Lot 2091;


thence southerly along the westerly boundary of District Lot 2091 to the
point of commencement;


except (1) the British Columbia Hydro and Power Authority right of way
shown as District Lot 6646; and (2) the Provincial Highway 101 shown as
right of way Plan 4395.


Secondly: commencing at the point of intersection of the southwest
corner of District Lot 1630 and the natural boundary of Jervis Inlet;


thence northerly along the westerly boundary of District Lot 1630 to a
point lying 100 metres south of the northwest corner;

thence due West 300 metres;

thence due South to the natural boundary of Jervis Inlet;


thence in a general easterly direction along the natural boundary of
Jervis Inlet to the point of commencement;


except (1) the British Columbia Hydro and Power Authority right of way
shown as District Lot 6647; and (2) the Provincial Highway 101 shown as
right of way Plan 4395.


Thirdly: the unsurveyed foreshore and land covered by water of Jervis
Inlet described as commencing at the point of intersection of the
southwest corner of District Lot 2091 and the natural boundary of Jervis
Inlet;

thence due South 400 metres;

thence due West to the point of intersection with the southerly
prolongation of the easterly boundary of District Lot 4121;


thence northerly along that southerly prolongation of the natural
boundary of Jervis Inlet;


thence in a general easterly direction along the natural boundary of
Jervis Inlet to the point of commencement.


Fourthly: the unsurveyed foreshore and land covered by water of Jervis
Inlet described as commencing at the point of intersection of the
southwest corner of District Lot 1630 and the natural boundary of Jervis
Inlet;


thence southerly 400 metres along the southerly prolongation of westerly
boundary of District Lot 1630;

thence due West 300 metres;

thence due North to the natural boundary of Jervis Inlet;


thence in a general easterly direction along the natural boundary of
Jervis Inlet to the point of commencement.


The whole park containing approximately 69.3 hectares
(39.3 hectares of upland and 30 hectares of foreshore).




SANDWELL PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Nanaimo District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 28 Tube 1914.


The whole park containing approximately 17 hectares
(3 hectares of upland and 14 hectares of foreshore).




SANTA GERTRUDIS-BOCA DEL INFIERNO PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Nootka District and
contained within the following described boundaries:


Commencing at the northwest corner of District Lot 366B;


thence easterly along the northerly boundary of District Lot 366B to the
northeast corner of District Lot 366B;


thence southeasterly on a bearing of 135° to a point lying 100 metres
perpendicularly distant northerly from the natural boundary of the
southerly shore of the entrance to Boca del Infierno Bay;


thence in a general easterly and southeasterly direction along a line
drawn 100 metres perpendicularly distant from and parallel to the
natural boundary of Boca del Infierno Bay to and continuing along a line
drawn 100 metres perpendicularly distant from and parallel to the
natural boundary of the westerly shores of McKay Passage and Cook
Channel, to and across the mouths of a small unnamed bay and Santa
Gertrudis Cove, to a point lying due East of the southeast corner of
District Lot 68;


thence due West to the southeast corner of District Lot 68;


thence westerly along the southerly boundary of District Lot 68 to the
southwest corner of District Lot 68;


thence westerly in a straight line to the southeast corner of District
Lot 264 and continuing westerly in a straight line to the southwest
corner of District Lot 264;


thence northerly along the westerly boundary of District Lot 264 to the
northwest corner of District Lot 264;


thence northwesterly along the northeasterly boundary of District Lot
244 to the most northerly northeast corner of District Lot 244;


thence due North to a point lying due West of the northwest corner of
District Lot 366B;


thence due East to the northwest corner of District Lot 366B, being the
point of commencement.


The whole park containing approximately 440 hectares
(357 hectares of upland and 83 hectares of foreshore).




SARGEANT BAY PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Group 1, New Westminster
District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the
Official Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 7
Tube 1940.


The whole park containing approximately 146 hectares
(143 hectares of upland and 3 hectares of foreshore).




SASQUATCH PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Yale Division, Yale
District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the
Official Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 5
Tube 2013; except Rockwell Drive as shown on Ministry of
Transportation and Infrastructure's District Plan 55-17.


The whole park containing approximately 1 229 hectares.




SAYSUTSHUN (NEWCASTLE ISLAND MARINE) PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Nanaimo District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 19 Tube 1914.


The whole park containing approximately 363 hectares
(334 hectares of upland and 29 hectares of foreshore).




SCHOEN LAKE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Rupert District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 1 Tube 1917.


The whole park containing approximately 8 775 hectares.




SECHELT INLETS MARINE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Group 1, New Westminster
District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the
Official Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 7
Tube 1803.


The whole park containing approximately 140 hectares.




SEELEY LAKE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Cassiar District and
contained within the following described boundaries:


That part of the southwest 1/4 of District Lot 1379 lying south of
Highway No. 16 and north of Seeley Lake.


That portion of the south 1/2 of the southwest 1/4 of Lot 1379 lying to
the north of the northerly boundary of the right of way of Provincial
Highway No. 16.


That part of District Lot 1382 lying north of Seeley Lake.


The whole park containing approximately 24 hectares.




SETON PORTAGE HISTORIC PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Lillooet District and
contained within the following described boundaries:

Lot 1, District Lot 1592, Plan 18256.
The whole park containing approximately 1 hectare.



SEVEN SISTERS PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Cassiar District and
Range 5, Coast District and contained within the described boundaries as
shown on the Official Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan
6 Tube 1840.


The whole park containing approximately 27 200 hectares.




SHANNON FALLS PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown Land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in New Westminster District
and contained within the following described boundaries:


That part of District Lot 608 as shown on an unregistered plan, Drawing
No. D-626 (J. 83511) produced by Hermon, Bunbury, & Oke, B.C.L.S.,
and dated March 2, 1983; except the land required for the widening of
Garibaldi Highway No. 99 as shown on Ministry of Transportation
Reference Plan No. R10447-65 on file in the Ministry of Transportation
Regional Office, New Westminster, and preliminary Land Title Office plan
from Bunbury & Associates land surveyor file W-3286-2 and on deposit
in Victoria, Ministry of Environment;


Reference Plan No. R10447-51 on file in Ministry of Transportation
Regional Office, New Westminster;

Parcel B of District Lot 608, Explanatory Plan 7565;

That part of Parcel C of District Lot 608, Explanatory Plan 7665, lying
east of the Squamish Highway;


Parcel H of District Lot 608, Explanatory Plan 7565; except (1) the
Crown land that is the subject of that part included in the unregistered
plan Drawing No. D-626 (J. 83511) and (2) the land required for the
widening of Garibaldi Highway No. 99 as shown on Ministry of
Transportation Reference Plan No. R10447-65 on file in the Ministry of
Transportation Regional Office, New Westminster;


District Lot 3538, except the Crown land that is the subject of Plans
2624, 10597 and 20152.


The whole park containing approximately 86 hectares.




SHUSWAP LAKE MARINE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Kamloops Division, Yale
District and contained within the following described boundaries:


Albas Site

Firstly: District Lots 3410 and 2831;

Fractional Legal Subdivisions 12 & 13 of Section 1, Township 26,
Range 8, W6M;


Fractional Legal Subdivision 9, Fractional Legal Subdivision 11, the
easterly 121 metres of Fractional Legal Subdivision 12, that part of
Fractional Legal Subdivision 15 lying East of BCFS Road (Project 724,03)
& Legal Subdivision 16 all of Section 2, Township 26, Range. 8, W6M,
Blocks A & B of Legal Subdivision 15 of Section 2, Township 26,
Range 8, W6M, L A of Legal Subdivision 10 of Section 2, Township 26,
Range 8, W6M, Pl. 20185 except Parcels A & B (H59221);


Parcel B (H59221) of Legal Subdivision 10 of Section 2, Township 26,
Range 8, W6M.


Secondly: that part of the road allowance within Legal Subdivision 15 of
Section 2, Township 26, Range 8 W6M described as commencing at the
northeast corner of Block A of Legal Subdivision 15;


thence northeast in a straight line to the northwest corner of Block B
of Legal Subdivision 15;


thence southerly along the West boundary of Block B to the southerly
boundary of Legal Subdivision 15;


thence westerly along the southerly boundary to the southeast corner of
Block A of Legal Subdivision 15;


thence North along the East boundary of Block A to the point of
commencement.


Thirdly: commencing at the northwest corner of District Lot 5828, being
a point on the natural boundary of Shuswap Lake;


thence easterly along the North boundary of District Lot 5828;


thence southwesterly in a straight line to a point lying 100 metres due
East of the southeast corner of District Lot 5828;


thence in a general southerly then westerly direction along a line
parallel to and 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the westerly
shore natural boundary of Shuswap Lake to a point on the line lying due
South of a point on the natural boundary, the point on the natural
boundary lies 121 metres West and approximately 340 metres South from
the northeast corner of Legal Subdivision 12 of Section 2, Township 26,
Range 8, W6M;

thence due North to the natural boundary;

thence in a general easterly then northerly direction along the natural
boundary of Shuswap Lake to the point of commencement.


The whole site containing approximately 124 hectares
(101 hectares of upland and 23 hectares of foreshore).


Aline Hill Site


Commencing at the Witness Post in a Stone Mound on the southerly
boundary of Section 10, Township 23, Range 8, W6M as shown on Dominion
Township Plan of the southwest 1/4 of Township 23, Range 8, W6M dated at
Ottawa, November 22, 1911;


thence due East to a point parallel to and 100 metres perpendicularly
distant from the westerly shore natural boundary of Shuswap Lake;


thence in a general northeasterly direction along a line parallel to and
100 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of Shuswap
Lake to a point lying due East of a point lying 804.7 metres due North
of the point of commencement;


thence due West to a point on the upland being parallel to and 100
metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of Shuswap
Lake;


thence in a general southwesterly direction parallel to and 100 metres
perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of Shuswap Lake at the
point lying due West of the point of commencement;

thence due East to the point of commencement.

The whole site containing approximately 20 hectares
(10 hectares of upland and 10 hectares of foreshore).


Anstey View Site


Firstly: Fractional southeast 1/4 of Legal Subdivision 10 and the
Fractional east 1/2 of Legal Subdivision 7 of Section 12, Township 24,
Range 8, W6M, Kamloops Division, Yale District.


Secondly: commencing at a point lying 360 metres East and approximately
201 metres North of the southwest corner of Legal Subdivision 10 of
Section 12, Township 24, Range 8, W6M, being a point on the westerly
shore natural boundary of Shuswap Lake;

thence due East 100 metres;

thence in a general southerly direction parallel to and 100 metres
perpendicularly distant from the westerly shore natural boundary of
Shuswap Lake to a point lying due East of a point described as lying 201
metres East and approximately 70 metres North of the southwest corner of
Legal Subdivision 7 of Section 12, Township 24, Range 8, W6M;


thence due West to the described point, being also a point on the
natural boundary of Shuswap Lake;


thence in a general northerly direction along the natural boundary of
Shuswap Lake to the point of commencement.


The whole site containing approximately 12.5 hectares
(6.5 hectares of upland and 6 hectares of foreshore).


Beach Bay Site


The described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan deposited in the
Crown Land Registry as Plan 9 Tube 1885.


The whole site containing approximately 67 hectares
(50 hectares of upland and 17 hectares of foreshore).


Bughouse Bay Site


The described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan deposited in the
Crown Land Registry as Plan 10 Tube 1876.


The whole site containing approximately 34 hectares
(13 hectares of upland and 21 hectares of foreshore).


Cottonwood Beach Site


Commencing at a point on the natural boundary of Seymour Arm of Shuswap
Lake, on the easterly shore of Shuswap Lake, lying due North a distance
of 260 metres and due West a distance of approximately 20 metres from
the southwest corner of the Fractional northeast 1/4 of Section 35,
Township 24, Range 8, W6M, as shown on Dominion Township Plan of
northeast 1/4 of Township 24, dated at Ottawa, May 9, 1912;


thence due East to a line parallel to and 100 metres perpendicularly
distant from the natural boundary of Seymour Arm of Shuswap Lake;


thence in a southwesterly direction along a line drawn parallel to and
100 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of Shuswap
Lake to a point lying due South a distance of 380 metres and due West a
distance of approximately 640 metres from the southwest corner of the
northeast 1/4 of the Section 35;


thence southeast along a straight line a distance of 200 metres to a
point on a line drawn parallel to and 100 metres perpendicularly distant
from the natural boundary of Seymour Arm of Shuswap Lake, on the
easterly shore of Shuswap Lake;


thence in a general northeasterly direction along a line drawn parallel
to and 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of
Seymour Arm of Shuswap Lake to a point lying due West of the point of
commencement;

thence due East to the point of commencement.

The whole site containing approximately 12 hectares
(6 hectares of upland and 6 hectares of foreshore).


Encounter Point Site


Commencing at the Iron Post and Stone Mound set at the southwest corner
of Fractional Section 14, Township 25, Range 8, W6M, as shown on
Dominion Township Plan of southeast 1/4 of Township 25, Range 8, W6M,
dated at Ottawa, May 9, 1912;

thence due West a distance of 100.6 metres;
thence due South a distance of 402.3 metres;
thence due West a distance of 100 metres;
thence due South a distance of 402.3 metres;

thence due East a distance of approximately 140 metres to the westerly
shore natural boundary of Seymour Arm of Shuswap Lake, and continuing
due East along the bed of Shuswap Lake to a point on a line drawn
parallel to and 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the westerly
shore natural boundary of Seymour Arm of Shuswap Lake;


thence northerly along a line drawn parallel to and 100 metres
perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of Seymour Arm of
Shuswap Lake to a point lying due East of the Witness Post marking the
northwest corner of the Fractional southwest 1/4 of Section 14;


thence due West crossing the westerly shore natural boundary of Shuswap
Lake to the Witness Post;


thence southerly in a straight line to the Iron Post and Stone Mound set
at the southwest corner of Fractional Section 14, being the point of
commencement.


The whole site containing approximately 41 hectares
(23 hectares of upland and 18 hectares of foreshore).


Fowler Point Site


Firstly: the Fractional west 1/2 of Section 18, Township 26, Range 7,
W6M.


Secondly: commencing at the most southerly southeast corner of District
Lot 2920, being a point on the westerly shore natural boundary of
Shuswap Lake;

thence due East 100 metres;

thence in a general southerly direction parallel to and 100 metres
perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of Shuswap Lake to a
point lying 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the point of
intersection of the easterly boundary of District Lot 2912 with the
natural boundary of Shuswap Lake;


thence northwesterly 100 metres to the point of intersection of the
easterly boundary of District Lot 2912;


thence in a general northerly direction along the natural boundary of
Shuswap Lake to the point of commencement.


The whole site containing approximately 21.4 hectares
(8.9 hectares of upland and 12.5 hectares of foreshore).


Hermit Bay Site


The described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan deposited in the
Crown Land Registry as Plan 37 Tube 1809.


The whole site containing approximately 78 hectares
(57 hectares of upland and 21 hectares of foreshore).


Horseshoe Bay Site


The described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan deposited in the
Crown Land Registry as Plan 9 Tube 1893.


The whole site containing approximately 9.83 hectares
(4.25 hectares of upland and 5.58 hectares of foreshore).


Hungry Cove Site


Commencing at a point on the natural boundary of Anstey Arm of Shuswap
Lake, on the easterly shore of Shuswap Lake, lying due South a distance
of 460 metres and due West a distance of approximately 210 metres from
the southeast corner of Block C, Section 22, Township 22, Range 8, W6M
as shown on Official Plan 2T775 on file with the Surveyor General of
British Columbia;


thence due West along the bed of Shuswap Lake to a point on a line
parallel to and 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural
boundary of Anstey Arm of Shuswap Lake;


thence southerly along a line drawn parallel to and 100 metres
perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of Shuswap Lake to a
point lying due North a distance of 201.2 metres and due West a distance
of approximately 563 metres from the southeast corner of Fractional
Section 16, Township 22, Range 8, W6M as shown on Dominion Township Plan
of the southwest 1/4, Township 22, Range 8, W6M, dated at Ottawa,
October 21, 1919;


thence due East to a point on the natural boundary of Shuswap Lake and
continuing due East to a point lying due North a distance of 201.2
metres, and due East a distance of approximately 201.2 metres from the
southeast corner of Fractional Section 16;

thence due North a distance of 1.01 kilometres;
thence due West a distance of 201.2 metres;
thence due North a distance of 803.5 metres;
thence due East a distance of 100.6 metres;

thence due North to a point lying due East of the point of commencement;

thence due West to the point of commencement.

The whole site containing approximately 86.2 hectares
(62.2 hectares of upland and 24 hectares of foreshore).


Mara Point Site


Firstly: that part of Fractional Legal Subdivision 14, Section 24,
Township 21, Range 8, W6M lying east of Plan A-402, being the Canadian
Pacific Railway right of way.


Secondly: commencing at the point of intersection of the north boundary
of Fractional Legal Subdivision 14, Section 24, Township 21, Range 8,
W6M and the westerly natural boundary of Mara Lake;


thence east 100 metres along the easterly production of the north
boundary of Fractional Legal Subdivision 14, Section 24, Township 21,
Range 8, W6M to the point of intersection with a line parallel to and
100 metres perpendicularly distant from the westerly natural boundary of
Mara Lake;


thence in a general southerly direction along that line to a point being
due East of the most southerly point of that part of Fractional Legal
Subdivision 14, Section 24, Township 21, Range 8, W6M, lying east of
Plan A-402, being the Canadian Pacific Railway right of way;


thence due West to the point of intersection with the westerly natural
boundary of Mara Lake;


thence in a general northerly direction along the westerly natural
boundary of Mara Lake to the point of commencement.


The whole site containing approximately 5.8 hectares
(3.8 hectares of upland and 2 hectares of foreshore).


Marble Point Site


Firstly: commencing at the northwest corner of Block A, Section 22,
Township 22, Range 8, W6M as shown on Official Plan 2T775 on file with
the Surveyor General of British Columbia and being on the natural
boundary of Salmon Arm of Shuswap Lake, on the easterly shore of Shuswap
Lake;


thence due West to a point on a line drawn parallel to and 100 metres
perpendicularly distance from the natural boundary of Salmon Arm of
Shuswap Lake;


thence in a general northerly direction along a line drawn parallel to
and 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of
Salmon Arm of Shuswap Lake to a point lying 100 metres perpendicularly
distant in a straight line from the northwest corner of District Lot
1851;


thence southeasterly in a straight line to the northwest corner of
District Lot 1851, being a point on the easterly shore natural boundary
of Shuswap Lake;


thence Easterly and southerly along the northerly and easterly
boundaries of District Lots 1851 and 1850 to the most southeast corner
of District Lot 1850;


thence in a straight line on a bearing of 153°01'15" to a line drawn
parallel to and 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural
boundary of Shuswap Lake;


thence in a general southwesterly direction along a line drawn parallel
to and 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of
Shuswap Lake to a point lying due East a distance of 402 metres and due
North a distance of approximately 260 metres from the northeast corner
of Fractional east 1/2 of southwest 1/4, Section 34, Township 22, Range
8, W6M;


thence due South to a point lying due East of the northeast corner of
Fractional east 1/2 of southwest 1/4, Section 34, Township 22, Range 8,
W6M;


thence southwesterly in a straight line to the northeast corner of
Fractional west 1/2 of northwest 1/4, Section 27, Township 22, Range 8,
W6M;


thence southerly along the easterly boundary of the Fractional west 1/2
to the southeast corner of the Fractional west 1/2;

thence due South a distance of 201 metres;

thence due West to a point on a line drawn parallel to and 100 metres
perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of Salmon Arm of
Shuswap Lake, on the easterly shore of Shuswap Lake;


thence in a general southerly direction along a line drawn parallel to
and 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of
Salmon Arm of Shuswap Lake to a point lying due East of the northeast
corner of Block A, Section 22, Township 22, Range 8, W6M;


thence due West to the northeast corner of Block A and continuing
westerly along the northerly boundary of Block A to the northwest of
Block A, being the point of commencement.


Secondly: commencing at the most southerly corner of District Lot 1852;


thence northerly along the westerly boundary of District Lot 1852 to the
northwest corner of District Lot 1852, being a point on the natural
boundary of Salmon Arm of Shuswap Lake, on the easterly shore of Shuswap
Lake;


thence northeasterly in a straight line to a point on a line drawn
parallel to and 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural
boundary of Salmon Arm of Shuswap Lake lying 100 metres perpendicularly
distant from the northwest corner of District Lot 1852;


thence in a general northeasterly direction along a line drawn parallel
to and 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of
Shuswap Lake to a point lying 100 metres perpendicularly distant from
the most northerly corner of District Lot 1853;


thence southeasterly in a straight line to the most northerly corner of
District Lot 1853 and continuing southeasterly along the northeasterly
boundary of District Lot 1853 to the most easterly corner of District
Lot 1853;


thence southwesterly along the southeasterly boundaries of District Lots
1853 and 1852 to the most southerly corner of District Lot 1852, being
the point of commencement.


Thirdly: commencing at the northeast corner of Block A of District Lot
6056;


thence westerly along the northerly boundary of District Lot 6056 to the
northwest corner of District Lot 6056, being a point on the natural
boundary of Salmon Arm of Shuswap Lake;


thence due West to a point on a line drawn parallel to and 100 metres
perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of Salmon Arm of
Shuswap Lake;


thence in a general northerly direction along a line drawn parallel to
and 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of
Salmon Arm of Shuswap Lake to a point lying 100 metres perpendicularly
distant from the northwest corner of District Lot 6057;


thence easterly in a straight line to the northwest corner of District
Lot 6057, being a point on the natural boundary of Salmon Arm of Shuswap
Lake;


thence easterly and southerly along the northerly and easterly
boundaries of District Lots 6057 and 6056 to the northeast corner of
Block A of District Lot 6056, being the point of commencement.


The whole site containing approximately 174.9 hectares
(111.7 hectares of upland and 63.2 hectares of foreshore).


Nielsen Beach Site


Commencing at a point on the natural boundary of Seymour Arm of Shuswap
Lake, on the easterly shore of Shuswap Lake, lying due West a distance
of approximately 362 metres from the iron post set at the northeast
corner of Fractional Section 3, Township 24, Range 8, W6M as shown on
Dominion Township Plan of the southeast 1/4 of Township 24, Range 8,
W6M, dated at Ottawa, April 30, 1912;


thence due West along the bed of Shuswap Lake to a point on a line drawn
parallel to and 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural
boundary;


thence southeasterly along a line drawn parallel to and 100 metres
perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of Seymour Arm of
Shuswap Lake to a point lying due South a distance of 805 metres and due
West a distance of approximately 120 metres from the northeast corner of
Fractional Section 3, Township 24, Range 8, W6M;


thence due East to the easterly shore natural boundary of Shuswap Lake
and continuing due East to a point lying due South of the iron post set
in at the northeast corner of Fractional Section 3;

thence due North a distance of 503 metres;

thence due West to a point on a line drawn parallel to and 100 metres
perpendicularly distant from the easterly shore natural boundary of
Shuswap Lake;


thence northwesterly along a line drawn parallel to and 100 metres
perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of Shuswap Lake to a
point lying due East from the point of commencement;


thence due West to the point of commencement, being a point on the
easterly shore natural boundary of Shuswap Lake.


The whole site containing approximately 17.6 hectares
(9.1 hectares of upland and 8.5 hectares of foreshore).


Paradise Point Site


Firstly: Legal Subdivisions 15 and 16 and Fractional Legal Subdivision 9
of Section 22, Township 21, Range 9, W6M and the Fractional northwest
1/4 of Section 23, Township 21, Range 9, W6M.


Secondly: commencing at the point of intersection of the northerly
boundary of Section 23, Township 21, Range 9, W6M with the westerly
shore natural boundary of Shuswap Lake;


thence southeasterly 100 metres perpendicular to the natural boundary of
Shuswap Lake;


thence in a general southwesterly direction parallel to and 100 metres
perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of Shuswap Lake to a
point lying 100 metres from the natural boundary of Shuswap Lake to a
point lying 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the point of
intersection of the natural boundary of Shuswap Lake with the westerly
boundary of Legal Subdivision 9 of Section 22, Township 21, Range 9,
W6M;


thence northwesterly 100 metres to that point of intersection;


thence in a general northeasterly direction along the natural boundary
of Shuswap Lake to the point of commencement.


The whole site containing approximately 65.5 hectares
(53 hectares of upland and 12.5 hectares of foreshore).


Roberts Bay Site


Firstly: Lot 1, Section 8, Township 24, Range 7, W6M, Plan KAP64470.


Secondly: commencing at the point of intersection of the north boundary
of Lot 1 of Fractional Section 8, Township 24, Range 7, W6M, Plan
KAP64470 and the easterly natural boundary of Shuswap Lake;


thence westerly 100 metres along the westerly production of the north
boundary of Lot 1 to the point of intersection with a line parallel to
and 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the easterly natural
boundary of Shuswap Lake;


thence in a general southerly direction along that line to a point lying
due West of the most southerly point of Lot 1, Section 8, Township 24,
Range 7, W6M, Plan KAP64470;


thence due East to the point of intersection with the easterly natural
boundary of Shuswap Lake;


thence in a general northerly direction along the easterly natural
boundary of Shuswap Lake to the point of commencement.


The whole site containing approximately 26 hectares
(21 hectares of upland and 5 hectares of foreshore).


[
Shuswap Lake East Site
. Description repealed 2005-35-31.]


St. Ives Site


Commencing at the northeast corner of Fractional Legal Subdivision 13 of
Section 20, Township 23, Range 8, W6M and being on the westerly shore
natural boundary of Shuswap Lake;


thence westerly along the northerly boundary of Fractional Legal
Subdivision 13 to the northwest corner of Fractional Legal Subdivision
13;

thence due North 100 metres;
thence due East 200 metres;
thence due North 100 metres;

thence due East to the westerly shore natural boundary of Shuswap Lake
and continuing easterly in a straight line along the bed of Shuswap Lake
to a point parallel to and 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the
natural boundary of Shuswap Lake;


thence in a general southerly direction along a line parallel to and 100
metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of Shuswap Lake
to the point lying due East of the point of commencement;

thence due West to the point of commencement;

except the Ministry of Forests and Range Forest Service Road shown on
Plan 7 Tube 2001 deposited in the Crown Land Registry.


The whole site containing approximately 4.7 hectares
(2.7 hectares of upland and 2 hectares of foreshore).


Swall Site


The described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan deposited in the
Crown Land Registry as Plan 7 Tube 1893.


The whole site containing approximately 7 hectares (4 hectares
of upland and 3 hectares of foreshore).


Tiilis Beach Site


Commencing at the northwest corner of the Fractional southwest 1/4 of
Section 32, Township 22, Range 8, W6M;


thence southerly along the westerly boundary of the Fractional southwest
1/4 of Section 32 to an iron post as shown on Dominion Township Plan of
the northwest 1/4 of Township 22, Range 8, W6M, dated at Ottawa, June
21, 1922, being 404.8 metres from the northeast corner;


thence in a straight line on a bearing of 89°56' to the westerly shore
natural boundary of Shuswap Lake and continuing along the bed of Shuswap
Lake to a point parallel to and 100 metres perpendicularly distant from
the natural boundary of Shuswap Lake;


thence along a line parallel to and 100 metres perpendicularly distant
from the natural boundary of Shuswap Lake to the intersection with the
easterly prolongation of the northerly boundary of the Fractional
southwest 1/4 of Section 32;


thence westerly along the easterly prolongation of the northerly
boundary of Section 32 to the northwest corner of Section 32, being a
point on the natural boundary of Shuswap Lake and continuing westerly
along the northerly boundary of the Fractional southwest 1/4 of Section
32 to the northwest corner of Section 32, being the point of
commencement.


The whole site containing approximately 27 hectares
(23 hectares of upland and 4 hectares of foreshore).


Twin Bays Site


Firstly: Fractional Legal Subdivision 1 of Section 19, and Fractional
Legal Subdivision 4 of Section 20, Township 24, Range 7, W6M.


Secondly: commencing at the point of intersection of the northerly
boundary of Legal Subdivision 4 of Section 20, Township 24, Range 7, W6M
to the westerly shore natural boundary of Shuswap Lake;


thence in a southeasterly direction 100 metres perpendicular to the
natural boundary of Shuswap Lake;


thence in a general southwesterly direction parallel to and distant 100
metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of Shuswap Lake
to a point lying due East of the most southerly southeast corner of
Legal Subdivision 1 of Section 19, Township 24, Range 7, W6M;


thence due West to the most southerly southeast corner of Legal
Subdivision 1, being also a point on the natural boundary of Shuswap
Lake;


thence in a general northeasterly direction along the natural boundary
of Shuswap Lake to the point of commencement.


The whole site containing approximately 15.3 hectares
(7.3 hectares of upland and 8 hectares of foreshore).


Two Mile Creek Site


Firstly: Fractional Legal Subdivision 4 and that portion of Legal
Subdivision 5 lying South of Two Mile Creek, Section 35, Township 25,
Range 8, W6M.


Secondly: commencing at the point of intersection of the right bank of
Two Mile Creek with the westerly shore natural boundary of Shuswap Lake;


thence southeasterly 100 metres perpendicular to the natural boundary of
Shuswap Lake;


thence in a general southerly direction parallel to and 100 metres
perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of Shuswap Lake to a
point lying due East of the intersection of the southerly boundary of
Section 35, Township 25, Range 8, W6M with the natural boundary of
Shuswap Lake;

thence due East 100 metres to that point;

thence northerly along the natural boundary of Shuswap Lake to the point
of commencement.


The whole site containing approximately 17.1 hectares
(8.1 hectares of upland and 9 hectares of foreshore).


Woods Landing Site


Commencing at a point on the westerly shore natural boundary of Shuswap
Lake lying due South 280 metres and due West approximately 25 metres
from the southwest corner of District Lot 5826;


thence due West 105 metres to a point lying due East approximately 15
metres from the centerline of the Woods Landing access road;

thence due North 840 metres;

thence due East to the natural boundary of Shuswap Lake and continuing
in a straight line along the bed of Shuswap Lake to a point parallel to
and 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of
Shuswap Lake;


thence in a general southerly direction along a line parallel to and 100
metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of Shuswap Lake
to a point lying due East of the point of commencement;

thence due West to the point of commencement.

The whole site containing approximately 17 hectares
(9 hectares of upland and 8 hectares of foreshore).


Woods Landing South Site


Commencing at a point lying due South 895 metres and due West
approximately 1 320 metres from the southwest corner of the southeast
1/4 of Section 22, Township 24, Range 8, W6M, being a point on the
westerly shore natural boundary of Shuswap Lake;

thence due West 120 metres;
thence due South 500 metres;

thence due East to the natural boundary of Shuswap Lake and continuing
in a straight line along the bed of Shuswap Lake to a point on a line
drawn parallel to and 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the
natural boundary of Shuswap Lake;


thence in a general northerly direction along a line parallel to and 100
metres perpendicularly distant to the natural boundary of Shuswap Lake
to a point lying due East of the point of commencement;

thence due West to the point of commencement.

The whole site containing approximately 10.5 hectares
(5.5 hectares of upland and 5 hectares of foreshore).


The whole park containing approximately 894.33 hectares
(600.05 hectares of upland and 294.28 hectares of foreshore).




SHUSWAP LAKE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Kamloops Division, Yale
District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the
Official Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 6
Tube 1978.


The whole park containing approximately 154 hectares
(120 hectares of upland and 34 hectares of foreshore).




SILVER BEACH PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Kamloops Division, Yale
District and contained within the following described boundaries:


Firstly: commencing at the northwest corner of Block E of District Lot
612, as shown on Plan 11425;


thence southwesterly along the westerly boundary of Block E of District
Lot 612, Plan 11425 and the southwesterly prolongation of the westerly
boundary of Block E of District Lot 612, Plan 11425, produced to the
intersection with a line drawn parallel to and 100 metres
perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of Seymour Arm of
Shuswap Lake, on the northerly shore of Shuswap Lake;


thence southeasterly, northerly and southeasterly along a line drawn
parallel to and 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural
boundary of Seymour Arm of Shuswap Lake to the intersection with a
straight line drawn southwesterly on a bearing of 194° from the
southeast corner of Lot 6 of District Lot 663, Plan 5824;


thence northeasterly in a straight line on a bearing of 14° to the
southeast corner of Lot 6 of District Lot 663, Plan 5824;


thence northerly along the most easterly boundary of Lot 6, Plan 5824,
to a point lying 237 metres southerly from the most easterly northeast
corner of Lot 6, Plan 5824, along the most easterly boundary of Lot 6;


thence northwesterly in a straight line on a bearing of 287° a distance
of 83.8 metres;

thence due North a distance of 91.4 metres;

thence due East to the most easterly boundary of Lot 6 of District Lot
663, Plan 5824;


thence northerly along the most easterly boundary of Lot 6, Plan 5824,
to the most easterly northeast corner of Lot 6;


thence westerly and northerly along the northerly and easterly
boundaries of Lot 6, Plan 5824, and continuing northerly along the
northerly prolongation of the easterly boundary of Lot 6, Plan 5824,
produced to the right bank natural boundary of Seymour River;


thence in a general northeasterly direction along the right bank natural
boundary of Seymour River to the northerly boundary of District Lot 663;


thence westerly along the northerly boundary of District Lot 663 to a
point lying due North of the northeast corner of Lot 3 of Block 2 of
District Lot 663, Plan 562;


thence due South to the northeast corner of Lot 3 of Block 2, Plan 562;


thence southerly along the easterly boundary of Lot 3 of Block 2, Plan
652 to the most northerly southeast corner of Lot 3, being a point on
the right bank natural boundary of Seymour River;


thence southwesterly along the right bank natural boundary of Seymour
River, to the most southerly southeast corner of Lot 3 of Block 2, Plan
562, being a point;


thence westerly along the southerly boundaries of Lot 3 of Block 2, Plan
562 and Lot A of District Lot 663, Plan KAP 48203 to the southwest
corner of Lot A, Plan KAP 48203;


thence northerly along the westerly boundary of Lot A, Plan KAP 48203
and the northerly production of Lot A, produced to the northerly
boundary of District Lot 663;


thence westerly and southerly along the northerly and westerly
boundaries of District Lot 663 to the northeast corner of Block E of
District Lot 612, Plan 11425, being a point on the westerly boundary of
District Lot 663;


thence northwesterly along the northerly boundary of Block E, Plan
11425, to the northwest corner of Block E, being the point of
commencement.


Secondly: commencing at the southwest corner of Lot 21 of District Lot
2946, as shown on Plan 7643, being a point on the northerly shore
natural boundary of Shuswap Lake;


thence due South along the bed of Shuswap Lake to a point on a line
drawn parallel to and 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the
northerly shore natural boundary of Shuswap Lake;


thence southeasterly along a line drawn parallel to and 100 metres
perpendicularly distant from the northerly shore natural boundary of
Shuswap Lake to a point lying due South of the southeast corner of Lot
22 of District Lot 2946, Plan 7634;


thence due North to the southeast corner of Lot 22, Plan 7634 and
continuing westerly along the northerly boundaries of Lots 16 to 21 of
District Lot 2946, Plan 7634, to the northwest corner of Lot 21 of
District Lot 2946, Plan 7634;


thence southerly along the westerly boundary of Lot 21, Plan 7634, to
the southwest corner of Lot 21, being the point of commencement.


Thirdly: that portion of District Lot 2946, shown dedicated as "Park" on
Plan 10404 together with all that foreshore or land covered by water,
more particularly described as commencing at the southeast corner of Lot
A of District Lot 2946, as shown on Plan 15335, being a point on the
natural boundary of Shuswap Lake, on the westerly shore of Shuswap Lake;


thence southeasterly in a straight line on a bearing of 110° to a line
drawn parallel to and 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the
westerly shore natural boundary of Shuswap Lake;


thence in a general southwesterly direction along a line drawn parallel
to and 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of
Shuswap Lake to a point lying due South of the southeast corner of Lot 2
of District Lot 946, Plan 10404, being a point on the natural boundary
of Shuswap Lake;


thence due North to the natural boundary of Shuswap Lake;


thence in a general northerly direction along the northerly shore
natural boundary of Shuswap Lake to the southeast corner of Lot A of
District Lot 2946, Plan 15335, being a point on the natural boundary,
and the point of commencement.


Fourthly: commencing at the southeast corner of Lot 3 of District Lot
2946, as shown on Plan 15424, being a point on the northerly shore
natural boundary of Shuswap Lake;


thence northwesterly along the easterly boundary of Lot 3, Plan 15424,
to the southwest corner of Lot A of District Lot 946, Plan 32136;


thence northeasterly along the southerly boundary of Lot A, Plan 32136,
to the southeast corner of Lot A, being a point on the westerly boundary
of Seymour Arm Road;


thence southerly along the westerly boundary of Seymour Arm Road, as
shown on Plan 7634, and continuing southerly along the southerly
prolongation of the westerly boundary of Seymour Arm Road, produced for
a distance of 61 metres;


thence due West to a point lying due South of the point of commencement;


thence due North to the southeast corner of Lot 3 of District Lot 2946,
Plan 15424, being a point on the northerly shore natural boundary of
Shuswap Lake, and the point of commencement.


The whole park containing approximately 129.8 hectares
(101.2 hectares of upland and 28.6 hectares of foreshore).




SILVER LAKE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Yale District and
contained within the following described boundaries:


Those lands which are adjacent to Silver Lake and contained within an
area contained by a line drawn parallel to and 201.2 metres
perpendicularly distant from the high water mark of Silver Lake except
those parts contained within the described boundaries of Lot 1513.


The whole park containing approximately 76.89 hectares.




SILVER STAR PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Osoyoos Division, Yale
District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the
Official Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 3
Tube 1876; except (1) Silver Star Road right of way as shown on
Ministry of Highways Drawings numbered 67/1306-2 and 67/1306-3 filed in
the Vernon Highway District Office (Gazetted July 12, 1984); and (2)
Sovereign Lake Access Road as shown on Crown Land Registry Plan 1
Tube 1533.


The whole park containing approximately 5 573 hectares.




SIMSON PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Group 1, New Westminster
District and contained within the following described boundaries:

District Lots 1540, 2070, 2071 and 2436.

The whole park containing approximately 461 hectares.




SIR ALEXANDER MACKENZIE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Range 3, Coast District
and contained within the following described boundaries:

District Lot 1361.
The whole park containing 5.261 hectares.



SKAGIT VALLEY PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Yale Division, Yale
District and contained within the following described boundaries:


Commencing at International Boundary Monument No. 73, being the
southwesterly corner of E.C. Manning Park;


thence northwesterly in a straight line to the summit of Shawatum
Mountain, being the westerly boundary of E.C. Manning Park;


thence in a general northeasterly direction along the easterly boundary
of the watershed of Shawatum Creek to the point of intersection with the
southerly boundary of the watershed of Twentysix Mile Creek;


thence northwesterly along the southerly boundary of the watershed of
Twentysix Mile Creek to the summit of Mount Brice;


thence northeasterly on a bearing of 2°30' a distance of approximately
3.5 kilometres to a point on the height of land lying westerly of
Hatchethead Mountain;


thence northwesterly in a straight line to the southeast corner of
District Lot 1725;


thence northwesterly along the southerly boundary of District Lot 1725
to a point lying parallel to and 250 metres perpendicularly distant from
the left bank natural boundary of Skagit River;


thence in a general northeasterly direction along a line drawn parallel
to and 250 metres perpendicularly distant from the left bank natural
boundary of Skagit River to the point of intersection with the boundary
of E. C. Manning Park;


thence northwesterly along the boundary of E. C. Manning Park to its
intersection with the easterly boundary of Section 13, Township 3, Range
24, W6M;


thence southerly and westerly along the easterly and southerly
boundaries of Section 13 to the height of land that forms the northerly
boundary of the watershed of the Skagit River;


thence in a general southwesterly direction along the northerly
watershed boundary of the Skagit River to a point lying due North of the
northeast corner of Lot 410;

thence due South to the northeast corner of Lot 410;

thence southerly and westerly along the easterly and southerly
boundaries of Lot 410 to the height of land that forms the easterly
watershed boundary of Maselpanik Creek;


thence southerly along that height of land to the International
Boundary;


thence easterly along the International Boundary to Boundary Monument
No. 73, being the point of commencement;


except (1) Skagit River Forest Ecological Reserve; (2) Ross Lake
Ecological Reserve; (3) Skagit River Cottonwoods Ecological Reserve; and
(4) Skagit River Rhododendrons Ecological Reserve.


The whole park containing approximately 27 964 hectares.




SKIHIST PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Kamloops Division, Yale
District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the
Official Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 6
Tube 1995; except the Trans-Canada Highway No. 1, as shown on the
Official Plans deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 3
Tube 996 and Plan 13 Tube 1615.


The whole park containing approximately 386 hectares.




SKOOKUMCHUCK NARROWS PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Group 1, New Westminster
District and contained within the following described boundaries:


Firstly: commencing at the southeast corner of District Lot 1577, being
a point on the westerly shore natural boundary of Skookumchuck Narrows;


thence westerly along the southerly boundary of District Lot 1577 to a
point lying 422.5 metres distant from the southwest corner of District
Lot 1577;

thence due North a distance of 360 metres;

thence due West to a point lying due South of a point on the southerly
boundary of District Lot 6257 lying 50 metres distant from the southeast
corner of District Lot 6257;


thence due North to the southerly boundary of District Lot 6257;


thence easterly and northerly along the southerly and easterly
boundaries of District Lot 6257 to the southwest corner of District Lot
5943;


thence easterly along the southerly boundary of District Lot 5943 to the
westerly boundary of District Lot 5944;


thence southerly, easterly and northerly along the westerly, southerly
and easterly boundaries of District Lot 5944 to the southwest corner of
District Lot 5942;


thence easterly along the southerly boundary of District Lot 5942 to the
westerly boundary of District Lot 1577;


thence northerly along the westerly boundary of District Lot 1577 to a
point lying due West of the southwest corner of Block A of District Lot
1577, as shown on Reference Plan 2929;


thence due East to the southwest corner of Block A of District Lot 1577,
Reference Plan 2929;


thence easterly and northerly along the southerly and easterly
boundaries of Block A of District Lot 1577, Reference Plan 2929, to the
northeast corner of Block A of District Lot 1577, being a point on the
westerly shore natural boundary of Skookumchuck Narrows;


thence in a general southeasterly direction along the westerly shore
natural boundary of Skookumchuck Narrows to the southeast corner of
District Lot 1577, being a point on the natural boundary of Skookumchuck
Narrows, and the point of commencement.

Secondly: District Lot 2991, except Plan 19477.

Thirdly: Boom Islet and Sechelt Islets, the seven unsurveyed islets
situated in Skookumchuck Narrows and lying adjacent to District Lot
1577.


The whole park containing approximately 123 hectares.




SLEEPING BEAUTY MOUNTAIN PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Range 5, Coast District
and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official
Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 8 Tube 1886.


The whole park containing approximately 298 hectares.




SLIM CREEK PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Cariboo District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 20 Tube 1839.


The whole park containing approximately 506 hectares.




SMALL INLET MARINE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Sayward District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 12 Tube 2010.


The whole park containing approximately 878 hectares
(753 hectares of upland and 125 hectares of foreshore).




SMALL RIVER CAVES PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Cariboo District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 9 Tube 1843.


The whole park containing approximately 1 818 hectares.




SMELT BAY PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Sayward District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 20 Tube 1919; except
the public road shown on Plan 7327.


The whole park containing approximately 20 hectares
(18 hectares of upland and 2 hectares of foreshore).




SMUGGLER COVE MARINE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Group 1, New Westminster
District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the
Official Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 1
Tube 1912.


The whole park containing approximately 185 hectares
(168 hectares of upland and 17 hectares of foreshore).




SOOKE POTHOLES PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Otter District and
contained within the following described boundaries:

Lot A, Sections 22 and 74, Plan 25239.

That part of Lot 20, of Section 74, Plan 1419 lying to the west of the
Canadian Northern Pacific Railway right of way, through Lot 20, as the
Canadian Northern Pacific Railway right of way is shown on Plan 1419.


That part of Section 25, on the northwest by Lot 3, Plan 11386, on the
east by the east boundary of Section 25, on the south by Lot A, Plan
22276 and on the west by a boundary joining a point on the southeasterly
boundary of Lot 3 distant 15.24 metres from the most southerly corner of
Lot 3 and a point on the northerly boundary of Lot A distant 18.29
metres from the northwesterly corner of Lot A.


The whole park containing approximately 7.28 hectares.




SOUTH TEXADA ISLAND PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Texada Island District
and contained within the following described boundaries:


Commencing at the most easterly northeast corner of District Lot 343,
being a point on the southeasterly natural boundary of Texada Island;


thence westerly, northerly and westerly along the northerly, easterly
and northerly boundaries of District Lot 343 to the northwest corner of
District Lot 343;


thence on a bearing of 318° a distance of approximately 530 metres to a
point lying due South of the southwest corner of District Lot 339;


thence due North to the southwest corner of District Lot 339;

thence on a bearing of 27° a distance of 880 metres;

thence northwesterly in a straight line to the summit of an unnamed
mountain lying approximately 160 metres due South and approximately 1.05
kilometres due East of the summit of Mount Shepherd;


thence on a bearing of 311° a distance of 2.25 kilometres;

thence due West a distance of 220 metres;

thence southwesterly in a straight line to the interior corner of
District Lot 476;


thence on a bearing of 185° to the southwesterly natural boundary of
Texada Island;


thence in general southeasterly and northeasterly directions along the
southwesterly and southeasterly natural boundaries of Texada Island to
the most easterly northeast corner of District Lot 343, being the point
of commencement;


except (1) Lot 1 of District Lot 343, Plan 13967; (2) Block A of
District Lot 343, Plan 5380; (3) Mineral Claim "Premier North 10"
331485; and (4) Mineral Claim "Premier North 11" 331486.


The whole park containing approximately 900 hectares.




SOWCHEA BAY PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Range 5, Coast District
and contained within the following described boundaries:

Firstly: Lots 1 to 8 of District Lot 651, Plan 1394.

Secondly: the unsurveyed foreshore of Stuart Lake described as
commencing at the point of intersection of the northeast corner of Lot 8
of District Lot 651, Plan 1394 and the natural boundary of Stuart Lake;

thence due North 100 metres;

thence westerly in a straight line to the point of intersection of the
northwest corner of Lot 1 of District Lot 651, Plan 1394 and the natural
boundary of Stuart Lake;


thence in a general easterly direction along the natural boundary of
Stuart Lake to the point of commencement.


The whole park containing approximately 13 hectares
(4 hectares of upland and 9 hectares of foreshore).




SPATSIZI HEADWATERS PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Cassiar District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 11 Tube 1867.


The whole park containing approximately 427 hectares.




SPATSIZI PLATEAU WILDERNESS PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Cassiar District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 4 Tube 1962; except
(1) Mineral Claim "Al 5" 221994; (2) Mineral Claim "Al 6" 221995; (3)
Mineral Claim "Bull" 222123; (4) Mineral Claim "Hyuk 1 Fr" 222360; (5)
Mineral Claim "Hyuk 3 Fr" 222362; (6) Mineral Claim "A1 42" 302923; (7)
Mining Lease 314708; (8) Coal Lease "12" 389292; (9) any land that was
subject to forfeited Mining Lease 306619; (10) any land over which the
following forfeited mineral claims were located: Mineral Claim "A1 1"
221814, Mineral Claim "A1 7" 222088, Mineral Claim "A1 8" 222089,
Mineral Claim "Metsantan #2" 238253, Mineral Claim "Surprise" 238476,
Mineral Claim "Wankle" 238473, Mineral Claim "Mets 4" 311918, Mineral
Claim "Met 8" 340458, Mineral Claim "New 2" 357276, Mineral Claim "Mets
5" 357277, and Mineral Claim "Met 1" 360359; and (11) Gladys Lake
Ecological Reserve as shown on the Official Plan deposited in the Crown
Land Registry as Plan 14 Tube 1961.


The whole park containing approximately 698 659 hectares.




SPECTACLE LAKE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Malahat District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 31 Tube 1935.


The whole park containing approximately 67 hectares.




SPIDER LAKE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Alberni District and
Newcastle District and contained within the following described
boundaries:

Lot 1, Block 184, Plan 34682.

The whole park containing approximately 64.59 hectares.




SPIPIYUS PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in New Westminster District
and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official
Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 1 Tube 1766.


The whole park containing approximately 2 979 hectares.




SPROAT LAKE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Alberni District and
contained within the following described boundaries:

Lot 1, District Lot 35, 52 and 98, Plan 14235.

Lot 1, District Lot 35, Plan 17159, except the Crown land that is the
subject of Plans 2734RW (consisting of 0.2787 hectares) and 2788RW
(consisting of 0.310 hectares).


That part of District Lot 35, Alberni District, containing approximately
3.53 hectares forming the right of way of the Esquimalt and Nanaimo
Railway Company through District Lot 35 as shown coloured red on Plan
76RW.


The whole park containing approximately 43 hectares.




SQUITTY BAY PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Nanaimo District and
contained within the following described boundaries:


Section 1-A, Lasqueti Island; except a 20 metre right of way centred on
the existing unsurveyed road.

District Lot 268.

Fractional northeast 1/4 of Section 3, Lasqueti Island; except (1)
remainder of Lot 1, Plan 11580; (2) Reference Plan 40100; (3) Reference
Plan 45844; and (4) a 20 metre right of way centred on the existing
unsurveyed road.


The whole park containing approximately 52 hectares.




STAGLEAP PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Kootenay District and
contained within the following described boundaries:


Commencing at the northeast corner of Special Timber Licence (S.T.L.)
10108P, marked by an Iron Post as shown on Highway Plan R341;


thence southerly along the easterly boundary of S.T.L. 10108P to the
southeast corner of S.T.L. 10108P, and continuing due South to the
northerly boundary of the watershed of Monk Creek;


thence in a general northeasterly direction along the northerly boundary
of the watershed of Monk Creek to a point lying due East of the Pipe
Post marking the most southerly southwest corner of District Lot 10484
(the survey of which has been cancelled) as shown on Highway Plan R353;

thence due West to the Pipe Post;

thence due North to the northerly boundary of the watershed of Summit
Creek;


thence westerly along the northerly boundaries of the watersheds of
Summit Creek and Stagleap Creek to the easterly boundary of S.T.L.
10105P;


thence southerly along the easterly boundary of S.T.L. 10105P to the
northeast corner of S.T.L. 10108P, being the point of commencement;


except Southern Trans-Provincial Highway as shown on Plan R353.


The whole park containing approximately 1 133 hectares.




STAMP RIVER PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Alberni District and
contained within the following described boundaries:


Firstly: commencing at a northwesterly corner of Lot 1, Block H,
District Lot 259 E & N, Plan 2024, being on the left bank natural
boundary of Stamp River;


thence due South to a point being the middle line of Stamp River;


thence in general northwesterly direction along the middle line of Stamp
River to a point lying due South of the southwest corner of Lot 10,
District Lot 262 E & N, Plan 1898;

thence due North to the southwest corner of Lot 10;

thence northerly along the westerly boundary of Plan 1898 to the
northwest corner of Lot 14, Plan 1898;


thence easterly along to the northerly boundary of Lot 14, Plan 1898 to
the northeast corner of Lot 14;


thence southerly along the easterly boundaries of Lots 14, 13, 12 and
11, Plan 1898 to the most northerly northeast corner of Lot 10, Plan
1898;


thence southeasterly along the easterly boundary of Lot 10, Plan 1898 to
the northwest corner of Lot 9, Plan 1898;


thence easterly along the northerly boundaries of Lots 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4
and 3, Plan 1898 to the northwest corner of Lot 2, Plan 1898;


thence southerly along the westerly boundary of Lot 2, Plan 1898 and
continuing along the westerly boundary of Lot A, District Lot 265 E
& N, Plan VIP 53095 to the northwesterly corner of Lot 1, Block H,
District Lot 259 E & N, Plan 2084, being the point of commencement;


except (1) Lot 10, District Lot 262 E & N, Plan 1898; and (2)
Roadway identified as Barker Road.


Secondly: Lots 1, 4 and 5, Block H, District Lot 259 E & N, Plan
2024.


Lot 2, Block H, District Lot 259 E & N, Plan 2024, except Plan 8374.


Lot 3, Block H, District Lot 259 E & N, Plan 2024, except the road
right of way as shown on Ministry of Transportation's Drawing 63-03-01A.


Thirdly: District Lot 80 E & N, except the North 804.7 metres (40
chains) of District Lot 80 shown coloured red on plan deposited under
D.D. 64518-I.


Fourthly: commencing at the most southerly southwest corner of District
Lot 80 E & N, being on the left bank natural boundary of Stamp
River;


thence due West to the southeast corner of District Lot 193 E & N,
being on the right bank natural boundary of Stamp River;


thence westerly, northerly and easterly along the southerly, westerly
and northerly boundaries of District Lot 193 to a point on the right
bank natural boundary of Stamp River;

thence due East to the middle line of Stamp River;

thence northerly along the middle line of Stamp River to a point lying
due South of the southerly prolongation of the westerly boundary of Lot
1, Block H, District Lot 259 E & N, Plan 2024;


thence due North to the left bank natural boundary of Stamp River;


thence southerly along the left bank natural boundary of Stamp River to
the most southerly southwest corner of District Lot 80 E & N, being
the point of commencement.


The whole park containing approximately 327 hectares.


[
STAWAMUS CHIEF PARK
. Description repealed 2011-27-14.]




STEELHEAD PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Kamloops Division, Yale
District and contained within the following described boundaries:


District Lot 399 as described in 244302F, except Plans 8814, A10496,
21524, 33089, H302 and KAP48717;


all those parts of the north 1/2 of the northeast 1/4 of Section 32,
Township 20, Range 21, W6M, which are not covered by any of the waters
of the Thompson River, except Plan A446, that part lying south of Plan
A446 and Parcel A, Plan A786;


all that part of the southeast 1/4 of Section 5, Township 21, Range 21,
W6M, which is bounded on the north by the southern limit of District Lot
399 and on the west by the left bank of the Thompson River: PID
014-527-201.


The whole park containing approximately 38.3 hectares.




STEMWINDER PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Similkameen Division,
Yale District and contained within the following described boundaries:


Sub-lots 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 of Lot 1968, shown on Plan 4708.


The whole park containing approximately 3.62 hectares.




STIKINE RIVER PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Cassiar District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 12 Tube 1875; except
(1) District Lot 371; (2) Ministry of Transportation's Gravel Reserve
"Mehaus" 2129; (3) Ministry of Transportation's Gravel Reserve "Stikine
North" 2105; (4) Ministry of Transportation's Gravel Reserve "Stikine
South" 2106; (5) a 100 metre right of way centred on Highway 37; (6) a
60 metre right of way centred on Telegraph Creek Road, a section 42
Transportation Act
highway; and (7) that parcel of Crown land commencing at the northwest
corner of District Lot 371, thence northerly to UTM North 6433500 metres
East 440880 metres, thence easterly to UTM North 6433600 metres East
442130 metres, thence southerly to UTM North 6433300 metres East 442130
metres, thence westerly to the easterly boundary of District Lot 371 at
UTM North 6433300 metres, thence northerly and westerly along the
easterly and northerly boundaries of District Lot 371 to the northwest
corner of District Lot 371.


The whole park containing approximately 257 177 hectares.




STONE MOUNTAIN PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Peace River District and
contained within the following described boundaries:


Commencing at Standard Pipe Post No. 231 set on the northerly boundary
of Alaska Highway right of way at approximately Mile 390, as shown on
Plan H464;


thence due North to the northerly boundary of the watershed of North
Tetsa River;


thence in a general northwesterly direction along the northerly
boundaries of the watersheds of North Tetsa River and MacDonald Creek,
passing through the summit of Mount St. Paul, to the headwaters of an
unnamed creek which flows southwesterly into MacDonald Creek at a point
near the mouth of One Ten Creek;


thence southwesterly to and along the right bank natural boundary of an
unnamed creek to its intersection with the right bank natural boundary
of MacDonald Creek;


thence westerly along the right bank natural boundary of MacDonald Creek
to a point lying due North of the intersection of the natural boundaries
of MacDonald Creek with the left bank natural boundary of One Ten Creek;


thence due South to the intersection of the natural boundaries of
MacDonald Creek;


thence in a general southerly direction along the left bank natural
boundary of One Ten Creek to the headwaters of One Ten Creek;


thence due East to the westerly boundary of the watershed of MacDonald
Creek;


thence in a general southerly direction along the westerly boundary of
the watershed of MacDonald Creek to the summit of Mount St. Magnus,
being a point;


thence in a general northeasterly direction along the easterly boundary
of the watershed of MacDonald Creek, the southeasterly boundary of the
watershed of the mainstream of North Tetsa River and the southeasterly
boundary of the watershed of the unnamed creek flowing in a general
northerly direction into North Tetsa River at a point approximately 1.3
kilometres easterly from the most easterly point of Summit Lake, to a
point lying due South of the point of commencement;


thence due North to Standard Pipe Post No. 231 set on the northerly
boundary of Alaska Highway right of way at approximately Mile 390, as
shown on Plan H464, being the point of commencement;


except (1) District Lots 1625, 1626 and 1627; and (2) Alaska Highway
right of way as shown on Plans H464, H497 and H516.


The whole park containing approximately 25 690 hectares.




STRATHCONA PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Clayoquot District,
Comox District, Nelson District, Nootka District, Rupert District and
Sayward District and contained within the described boundaries as shown
on the Official Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 4
Tube 2003; except (1) Moyehai Indian Reserve 23; (2) Watta Indian
Reserve 25; (3) Wappook Indian Reserve 26; (4) Highway 28; (5) Buttle
Lake Bridge approaches as shown on Ministry of Transportation's Drawing
64-04-01 dated December 8, 1983; (6) a 30 metre right of way
centred on the road within Gold River drainage as shown on plan titled
"Elimination from Kyuquot Forest 920-3-12" dated October 16, 1980 on
file with the Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource
Operations; (7) Ash River Main Road; and (8) Statutory Right of Way Plan
Over Part of Lot 1, Block 121, Comox District, Plan 13634, as shown on
Plan VIP80052.


The whole park containing approximately 248 669 hectares
(247 961 hectares of upland and 708 hectares of
foreshore).




STUART LAKE MARINE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Range 5, Coast District
and contained within the following described boundaries:


Jus K'etl'o Bay Site


The described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan deposited in the
Crown Land Registry as Plan 15 Tube 1874.


The whole site containing approximately 70 hectares
(41 hectares of upland and 29 hectares of foreshore).


North Arm Site


The described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan deposited in the
Crown Land Registry as Plan 15 Tube 1874.


The whole site containing approximately 23 hectares
(9 hectares of upland and 14 hectares of foreshore).


Two Islands Site


The described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan deposited in the
Crown Land Registry as Plan 15 Tube 1874.


The whole site containing approximately 134 hectares
(72 hectares of upland and 62 hectares of foreshore).


The whole park containing approximately 227 hectares
(122 hectares of upland and 105 hectares of foreshore).




STUART LAKE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Range 5, Coast District
and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official
Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 14 Tube 1808;
except the 30 metre right of way identified as Tachie Road 207.


The whole park containing approximately 343 hectares.


[

SUDETEN PARK.
Description repealed 2006-15-33.]




SUE CHANNEL PARK



Hawkesbury Island Site


All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Range 4, Coast District
and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official
Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 7 Tube 1887.


The whole site containing approximately 73 hectares
(36 hectares of upland and 37 hectares of foreshore).


Loretta Island Site


All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Range 4, Coast District
and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official
Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 7 Tube 1887.


The whole site containing approximately 136 hectares
(49 hectares of upland and 87 hectares of foreshore).


The whole park containing approximately 209 hectares
(85 hectares of upland and 124 hectares of foreshore).




SUGARBOWL-GRIZZLY DEN PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Cariboo District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 4 Tube 1846; except
(1) the land that is subject to a 100 metre right of way centred on
Highway 16; (2) the land that is subject to a 30 metre right of way
centred on Ministry of Transportation's Longworth Access Road No. 4034;
and (3) the land that is subject to Ministry of Transportation's Gravel
Reserve QUAR7402109.


The whole park containing approximately 22 529 hectares.




SUKUNKA FALLS PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Peace River District and
contained within the following described boundaries:


Commencing at a point lying 190 metres west and 1.32 kilometres north of
the confluence of the east bank natural boundary of Burnt River and the
west bank natural boundary of Sukunka River;


thence in a general southeasterly direction along a line parallel to and
400 metres perpendicularly distant from the right bank natural boundary
of Sukunka River a distance of 6.15 kilometres;


thence due East a distance of approximately 1 kilometre to the point of
intersection with the west boundary of Sukunka Road;


thence in a general northwesterly direction along the west boundary of
Sukunka Road to a point lying due East of the point of commencement;


thence due West a distance of approximately 560 metres to the point of
commencement.


The whole park containing approximately 360 hectares.




SUMMIT LAKE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Kootenay District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 3 Tube 1920.


The whole park containing approximately 5.83 hectares.


[


SUNNYBRAE PARK.

Description repealed 2005-35-32.]




SUN-OKA BEACH PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Osoyoos Division, Yale
District and contained within the following described boundaries:

Firstly: District Lot 1752.

Secondly: those parts of Parcels 1 and 2, C.L.S.R. Plan 1477 B.C. and
parts of C.L.S.R. Plan 597 B.C., contain 0.56 hectares,
5.12 hectares and 9.19 hectares, respectively, as the same are
shown on a Plan of survey drawn by R.W. Thorpe, B.C.L.S., and sworn to
by him on the fifth day of April 1965, at Victoria, in the Province of
British Columbia and shown on Plan 16 Tube 748 deposited in the
Crown Land registry; except the road shown on Plan 2 Tube 1550 on
deposit in the Crown Land Registry.


Thirdly: all that part of Lot 4885 described as commencing at the most
southerly point of the southerly part of Parcel 1 of C.L.S.R. Plan 1477
B.C. lying on the natural boundary of Okanagan Lake;


thence southeasterly 36°35'10" to the southerly boundary of Lot 4885;


thence northeasterly along the southerly boundary of Lot 4885 to the
southeasterly prolongation of the southwesterly boundary of the right of
way shown on Plan 68 Tube 945;


thence northwesterly along the southeasterly prolongation of the right
of way shown on Plan 68 Tube 945 to the natural boundary of
Okanagan Lake;


thence southwesterly along the natural boundary of Okanagan Lake, to the
point of commencement.


Fourthly: commencing at the intersection of the southeasterly
prolongation of the northwest boundary of the right of way shown on Plan
68 Tube 945, with the natural boundary of Okanagan Lake;


thence southeasterly 36°39'00" to the southerly boundary of Lot 4885;


thence northeasterly along the southerly boundary of Lot 4885 to the
most easterly southeast corner of Lot 4885;


thence northwesterly along the easterly boundary of Lot 4885 to the
natural boundary of Okanagan Lake;


thence southwesterly along the natural boundary of Okanagan Lake to the
point of commencement.


Fifthly: road easement shown on Plan 68 Tube 945 on deposit in the
Crown Land Registry.


The whole park containing approximately 30 hectares.




SURGE NARROWS PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Sayward District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 1 Tube 1916.


The whole park containing approximately 515 hectares
(206 hectares of upland and 309 hectares of foreshore).




SUSTUT PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Cassiar District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 4 Tube 1863.


The whole park containing approximately 75 037 hectares.




SUTHERLAND RIVER PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Range 5, Coast District
and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official
Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 3 Tube 1869;
except (1) a 30 metre right of way centred on Ministry of Forests'
Augler-Grizzly Forest Service Road 7697.12; (2) Forest Service Gravel
Pit S20040-51; (3) a 30 metre right of way centred on Ministry of
Forests' Road R10010-140, (4) Ministry of Forests' Licence A16823,
Cutting Permit 306, Blocks 1 and 2; (5) Ministry of Forests' Licence
A16823, Cutting Permit 315, Blocks 2 and 4; (6) Ministry of Forests'
Licence A16823, Cutting Permit 330, Block NB032; (7) Ministry of
Forests' Licence A16823, Cutting Permit 235, Block BE 018; and (8) a 30
metre right of way centred on the present road access to "Nan Tl'at"
Indian Reserve No. 13.


The whole park containing approximately 13 559 hectares.




SWAN LAKE KISPIOX RIVER PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Cassiar District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 8 Tube 1878; except
(1) the Crown land that is subject to a 30 metre right of way centred on
East Taylor Forest Service Road, Project 9798.01; and (2) Forest Licence
A16831 - CP 393, Block 62.


The whole park containing approximately 62 255 hectares.




SWAN LAKE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Peace River District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 5 Tube 1901; except a
20.1168 metre right of way centred on the public road adjacent to the
west boundary of Section 25, Township 26.


The whole park containing approximately 82 hectares
(65 hectares of upland and 17 hectares of foreshore).




SẀIẀS PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Similkameen Division,
Yale District and contained within the following described boundaries:

Firstly: Lot 627 of District Lot 2450S.
Secondly: Lot 2 of District Lot 2450S, Plan 29024.

Thirdly: all that unsurveyed foreshore and land, covered by the waters
of Osoyoos Lake, more particularly described as commencing at the
southeast corner of Lot 2 of Lot 2450S, Similkameen Division, Yale
District, Plan 29024, being on the westerly shore natural boundary of
Osoyoos Lake;

thence North 74° East approximately 150 metres;

thence northerly, easterly, northerly and westerly, parallel to and 100
metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of Osoyoos Lake
to a point lying due North of the most northerly northwest corner of Lot
627 of Lot 2450S, Plan 2778, being also a point on the natural boundary
of Osoyoos Lake;


thence due South to the northwest corner of Lot 627 of Lot 2450S, Plan
2778 and southerly along the natural boundary of Osoyoos Lake to the
point of commencement.


The whole park containing approximately 38 hectares
(13 hectares of upland and 25 hectares of foreshore).




S
X̱
ÓTSAQEL/CHILLIWACK LAKE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Yale Division, Yale
District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the
Official Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 6
Tube 2017.


The whole park containing approximately 9 273 hectares.


[


S

X
ˇ

w
Ə

X
ˇ

w
NITK
w
PARK [a.k.a. Okanagan Falls Park]

. Description repealed 2016-14-1.]




SYDNEY INLET PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Clayoquot District and
contained within the following described boundaries:


Commencing at a point lying due East 700 metres and due South
approximately 40 metres from the northeast corner of District Lot 316,
being a point on the northerly shore natural boundary of Stewardson
Inlet;


thence in a straight line on a bearing of 351° to the intersection with
the westerly boundary of the watershed of Sydney Inlet;


thence in a general northwesterly direction along the westerly boundary
of the watershed of Sydney Inlet to a point lying due West 1.25
kilometres and due South approximately 100 metres from the southwest
corner of "Kishnacous" Indian Reserve No. 29;

thence on a bearing of 312° a distance of 580 metres;
thence on a bearing of 355° a distance of 280 metres;

thence on a bearing of 49° a distance of approximately 1.0 kilometre to
a southwest corner of District Lot 653;


thence due East approximately 1.44 kilometres to a point on the westerly
boundary of the watershed of an unnamed creek flowing in a general
northwesterly direction into Sydney River at a point lying due West 100
metres and due North approximately 800 metres from the northeast corner
of "Kishnacous" Indian Reserve No. 29;


thence in a general southerly direction along the westerly boundary of
the watershed of an unnamed creek to the intersection with the easterly
boundary of the watershed of Sydney Inlet;


thence in a general southerly direction along the easterly boundary of
the watershed of the Sydney Inlet to a point lying due South 1.3
kilometres and due East approximately 3.2 kilometres from the northeast
corner of District Lot 316;


thence due South to a point on the natural boundary of Sydney Inlet;


thence in a straight line on a bearing of 226° to a point on the natural
boundary of Sydney Inlet on the westerly shore of Sydney Inlet;


thence due West to the intersection with the westerly boundary of the
watershed of Stewardson Inlet;


thence in a northwesterly direction along the westerly boundary of the
watershed of Stewardson Inlet to the intersection with the southerly
boundary of the watershed of Stewardson Inlet;


thence in a northwesterly direction along the southerly boundary of the
watershed of Stewardson Inlet to the intersection with the westerly
boundary of the watershed of an unnamed creek flowing northerly into
Stewardson Inlet, being due West 880 metres and due South approximately
1.0 kilometre from the northeast corner of District Lot 316;


thence in a northwesterly direction along the westerly boundary of the
watershed of an unnamed creek to the intersection with the southerly
shore natural boundary of Stewardson Inlet;


thence due North to a point on the southerly shore natural boundary of
Darr Island, being District Lot 393;


thence in a general northerly and westerly direction along the natural
boundary of Darr Island to a point lying due East 680 metres and due
South approximately 120 metres from the northeast corner of Lot 316;


thence due North to a point on the northerly shore natural boundary of
Stewardson Inlet lying due East 680 metres from the northeast corner of
District Lot 316, being the point of commencement;

except "Kishnacous" Indian Reserve No. 29.

The whole park containing approximately 2 774.2 hectares
(2 083.2 hectares of upland and 691.0 hectares of
foreshore).




SYRINGA PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Kootenay District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 4 Tube 2020.


The whole park containing approximately 4 538 hectares.




TĀ CH'ILĀ PARK [a.k.a. Boya Lake Park]



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Cassiar District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 10 Tube 2009.


The whole park containing approximately 4 728 hectares.




TAHSISH-KWOIS PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Rupert District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 7 Tube 2005.


The whole park containing approximately 10 987 hectares
(10 971 hectares of upland and 16 hectares of foreshore).




TAKLA LAKE MARINE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Cassiar District and
contained within the following described boundaries:


Sandy Point Site


The described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan deposited in the
Crown Land Registry as Plan 11 Tube 1852.


The whole site containing approximately 160 hectares
(115 hectares of upland and 45 hectares of foreshore).


Takla West Site


The described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan deposited in the
Crown Land Registry as Plan 11 Tube 1852.


The whole site containing approximately 41 hectares
(31 hectares of upland an 10 hectares of foreshore).


White Bluff Site


The described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan deposited in the
Crown Land Registry as Plan 11 Tube 1852.


The whole site containing approximately 349 hectares
(167 hectares of upland and 182 hectares of foreshore).


The whole park containing approximately 550 hectares
(313 hectares of upland and 237 hectares of foreshore).




TATLATUI PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Cassiar District and
contained within the following described boundaries:


Commencing at the intersection of the left bank natural boundary of
Firesteel River with the right bank natural boundary of Sturdee River;


thence due West to the northerly boundary of the watershed of Firesteel
River;


thence in general westerly, southerly and northeasterly directions along
the northerly, westerly and southeasterly boundaries of the watershed of
Firesteel River, passing through the summits of Stalk Peak, Kubicek
Peak, Mount Oakes and Mount Trygve, to the summit of Thomas Peak, being
a point on the southeasterly boundary of the watershed of Firesteel
River;


thence northwesterly in a straight line to the point of commencement.


The whole park containing approximately 105 829 hectares.




TAYLOR ARM PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Clayoquot District and
contained within the following described boundaries:


District Lots 2089 and 2091, except the Crown land that is the subject
of Alberni-Tofino Highway 4 as identified on right of way Plan 2750.


The whole park containing approximately 71 hectares.




TAYLOR LANDING PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Township 82, Range 18,
W6M, Peace River District and contained within the following described
boundaries:

Lot 1 of Section 25, Plan 25779.

The whole park containing approximately 2.4 hectares.




TEAKERNE ARM PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Group 1, New Westminster
District and contained within the following described boundaries:


Commencing at the point of intersection of the southwest corner of
District Lot 5638 and the natural boundary of Teakerne Arm;

thence due East 500 metres;
thence due North 1.5 kilometres;
thence due West 1 kilometre;

thence due South to the point of intersection with the natural boundary,
also lying on the northerly boundary of District Lot 7077;


thence easterly and southerly along the northerly and easterly
boundaries of District Lot 7077 to the southeast corner of District Lot
7077;


thence southeasterly in a straight line to the northwest corner of
District Lot 7078;


thence easterly and southerly along the northerly and easterly
boundaries of District Lot 7078 to the point of commencement.


The whole park containing approximately 128 hectares.




TEN MILE LAKE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Cariboo District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 5 Tube 1836; except
(1) Cariboo Highway No. 97, as shown on Plans H595, H596, 24007, Plan 13
Tube 532, Plan 17 Tube 538, Plan 20 Tube 637, and Plan 12
Tube 1931; (2) Ten Mile Lake Road No. 165 as shown on Plan 12
Tube 1931; and (3) Bjornson Road, as shown on Plan 11
Tube 1609 and Plan PGP37114.


The whole park containing approximately 343 hectares
(328 hectares of upland and 15 hectares of foreshore).




THREE SISTERS LAKES PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Cariboo District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 5 Tube 1840; except
(1) the land that is subject to a 30 metre right of way centred on Stone
Creek Forest Service Road, Project 942.4478.02; and (2) the land that is
subject to a 30 metre right of way centred on a non-status road in the
most southerly southwest corner of the park and joining Forest Service
Road 4478.02 adjacent to QUAR 7406771.


The whole park containing approximately 968 hectares.




THUNDER HILL PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Kootenay District and
contained within the following described boundaries:


The most southerly 603.6 metres of Lot 286, except the right of way for
the Kootenay Central Railway as shown on Plan 1203 and the 0.13 hectare
area lying to the east of the right of way for the Kootenay Central
Railway and held under Certificate of Title No. 2965-I in the name of
the Kootenay Central Railway and the Highway 95 right of way Plan R345.


The whole park containing approximately 44 hectares.




THURSTON BAY MARINE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Sayward District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 5 Tube 1971.


The whole park containing approximately 531 hectares
(320 hectares of upland and 211 hectares of foreshore).




TOP OF THE WORLD PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Kootenay District and
contained within the following described boundaries:


Commencing at the northwest corner of Block G of District Lot 4590;


thence southerly along the westerly boundary of Block G of District Lot
4590 to the easterly boundary of Forest Service Road 942-4603-03, being
the White-Lussier Forest Road;


thence in a general southerly direction along the easterly boundary of
White-Lussier Forest Road to a point lying 1.35 kilometres due South and
190 metres due West of the northwest corner of Block G of District Lot
4590;


thence due East to the westerly boundary of Block G of District Lot
4590;


thence southerly along the westerly boundary of Block G of District Lot
4590 to the northerly boundary of the watershed of Wild Horse River;


thence easterly and southerly along the northerly and easterly
boundaries of the watershed of Wild Horse River to a point on the
easterly boundary of the watershed of Wild Horse River lying due West of
the summit of Chrysler Peak;


thence due East to the summit of Chrysler Peak, being a point on the
westerly boundary of the watershed of Galbraith Creek;


thence in a northwesterly direction along the westerly boundary of the
watershed of Galbraith Creek to a point lying due East of the summit of
Mount Dingley;


thence due East to the easterly boundary of the watershed of Galbraith
Creek;


thence northeasterly in a straight line on a bearing of 20° crossing
North Galbraith Creek to the height of land separating the 2 forks at
the headwaters of Alpine Creek;


thence westerly along the height of land separating the 2 forks at the
headwaters of Alpine Creek and continuing westerly along the southerly
boundary of the watershed of Goat Creek to the westerly boundary of Goat
Creek;


thence northerly along the westerly boundary of the watershed of Goat
Creek to the northerly boundary of Block G of District Lot 4590;


thence westerly along the northerly boundary of Block G of District Lot
4590, to the northwest corner of District Lot 4590, being the point of
commencement.


The whole park containing approximately 8 790 hectares.




TOPLEY LANDING PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Range 5, Coast District
and contained within the following described boundaries:


Firstly: commencing at the northeast corner of Lot 2175;


thence southwesterly along the boundary of Lot 2175 and its prolongation
to a point lying 80.48 metres distant from the southeast corner of Lot
2175;

thence West 201.2 metres;
thence North 301.8 metres;

thence East approximately 150.9 metres to the high water mark on the
westerly shore of Babine Lake;


thence in a general southerly direction along the high water mark to its
intersection with the northerly prolongation of the easterly boundary of
Lot 2175;


thence southerly along that northerly prolongation to the point of
commencement.


Secondly: commencing at a point on the north boundary of Topley Park
lying 70.42 metres due East of the northwest corner of Topley Park;

thence due North 140.84 metres;
thence due East 201.2 metres;

thence due South approximately 201.2 metres to a point lying 20.12
metres from and perpendicular to the natural boundary of Babine Lake;


thence general southerly along a line parallel and perpendicular to the
natural boundary of Babine Lake to a point, being the point of
intersection of the line parallel and perpendicular to and the
northeasterly prolongation of the southeast boundary of Topley Park;


thence southwesterly 20.12 metres along that northeasterly prolongation
to the most easterly corner of Topley Park;


thence northwesterly along the northeasterly boundary of Topley Park to
the northerly boundary of Topley Park;


thence due West along boundary northerly boundary of Topley Park to the
point of commencement.


The whole park containing approximately 12 hectares.




TRANQUIL CREEK PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Clayoquot District and
contained within the following described boundaries:


Commencing at a point on the easterly boundary of the watershed of
Paradise Lake lying due South 900 metres and due West approximately 550
metres from Rhine Peak;


thence in a general northeasterly, easterly and southwesterly direction
along the westerly, northerly and easterly boundaries of the watershed
of Paradise Lake to a point on the easterly boundary of the watershed of
Paradise Lake lying due East 330 metres and due South approximately 850
metres from Rhine Peak;


thence in a northwesterly direction in a straight line to the point of
commencement.


The whole park containing approximately 298.6 hectares.




TREMBLEUR LAKE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Range 5, Coast District
and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official
Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 22 Tube 1866.


The whole park containing approximately 57 hectares.




TRIBUNE BAY PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Nanaimo District and
contained within the following described boundaries:


Commencing at the northeast corner of Parcel C (DD 199735I) of the
Fractional south 1/2 of Section 10, Hornby Island, being a point on the
northwesterly shore natural boundary of Tribune Bay;


thence westerly along the northerly boundary of Parcel C to the easterly
boundary of St. John Point Road as shown on Plan 1424RW;


thence northerly and easterly along the easterly and southerly
boundaries of St. John Point Road, Plan 1424 RW, to the easterly
boundary of Fractional southeast 1/4 of Section 10, Hornby Island;


thence southerly along the easterly boundary of Fractional southeast 1/4
of Section 10, Hornby Island to the most easterly, southeast corner of
Section 10, being a point on the northerly shore natural boundary of
Tribune Bay;


thence southwesterly in a straight line on a bearing of 185° a distance
of 400 metres;


thence southwesterly in a straight line on a bearing of 230° a distance
of 370 metres;


thence northwesterly in a straight line to the northeast corner of
Parcel C (DD 199735I) of the Fractional south 1/2 of Section 10, Hornby
Island, being the point of commencement.


The whole park containing approximately 95 hectares
(72 hectares of upland and 23 hectares of foreshore).


[
TRUMAN DAGNUS LOCHEED PARK.
Description repealed 2013-3-2.]




TS'ILɁOS PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Range 1, Coast District,
Range 2, Coast District and Lillooet District and contained within the
following described boundaries:


Commencing at the southwest corner of "Chilco Lake" Indian Reserve No.
1, Range 2, Coast District, being a point on the easterly shore natural
boundary of Chilko Lake;


thence easterly along the southerly boundary of "Chilco Lake" Indian
Reserve No. 1 a distance of 650 metres;


thence due South to the intersection with a line drawn parallel to and
500 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of Chilko
Lake;


thence southerly along a line parallel to and 500 metres perpendicularly
distant from the natural boundary of Chilko Lake to a point lying due
South a distance of 5.95 kilometres and due East a distance of
approximately 2.7 kilometres from the southwest corner of "Chilco Lake"
Indian Reserve No. 1;


thence in a straight line on a bearing of 73° a distance of
approximately 1.1 kilometres to the intersection with the 6 500 foot (1
981 metre) contour;


thence in a general northeasterly direction along the 6 500 foot (1 981
metre) contour to the intersection with the most easterly tributary of
an unnamed creek flowing northeasterly into Taseko River, being
approximately 5.5 kilometres due West and 2.8 kilometres due North from
the northwest corner of District Lot 7930, Lillooet District;


thence in a straight line on a bearing of 163° a distance of 1.4
kilometres;


thence in a straight line on a bearing of 200° a distance of 850 metres;


thence in a straight line on a bearing of 169° a distance of 850 metres;

thence due South a distance of 1.5 kilometres;

thence in a straight line on a bearing of 217° a distance of 2.0
kilometres;


thence in a straight line on a bearing of 235° a distance of 2.0
kilometres;


thence in a straight line on a bearing of 205° a distance of 350 metres;


thence in a straight line on a bearing of 170° a distance of 1.5
kilometres;


thence in a straight line on a bearing of 159° a distance of 2.3
kilometres;


thence in a straight line on a bearing of 172° a distance of 1.3
kilometres;


thence in a straight line on a bearing of 179° a distance of 4.0
kilometres;


thence southwesterly in a straight line to Triangulation Station P.M 68A
205 (G) located West of Fishem Lake;


thence in a straight line on a bearing of 220° a distance of 3.1
kilometres;


thence due South to the intersection with the height of land between the
2 unnamed forks of the most southerly tributary of Yohetta Creek and
continuing southerly along the height of land to the summit of RCAF
Peak;


thence in a straight line on a bearing of 126° a distance of 4.0
kilometres;


thence in a straight line on a bearing of 165° to the intersection with
the height of land between 2 unnamed creeks flowing into Tchaikazan
River from the icefields west and east of Beehive Peak;


thence southerly along the height of land to the summit of Beehive Peak;


thence southeasterly along the height of land to the intersection with
the unnamed peak south of the icefield southeast of Beehive Peak;


thence in a straight line on a bearing of 67°, a distance of 600 metres;


thence in a straight line on a bearing of 104° to the intersection with
the middle line of Falls River;


thence southeasterly in a straight line to the summit of Mount McLeod;


thence in a straight line on a bearing of 104° to the confluence of the
middle lines of the northerly and southerly tributaries of an unnamed
creek flowing easterly into Lord River;


thence southeasterly along the middle line to a point lying due South a
distance of 600 metres and due East a distance of approximately 4.4
kilometres from the summit of Mount McLeod;


thence in a straight line on a bearing of 127° to the intersection with
the 5 500 foot (1 676 metre) contour;


thence southerly and easterly along that contour to a point lying
parallel to and 200 metres perpendicularly distant from the middle line
of an unnamed creek and most westerly tributary flowing northwesterly
into Lord River;


thence southeasterly along a line drawn parallel to and 200 metres
perpendicularly distant from that middle line of an unnamed creek and
most westerly tributary to the most southeasterly limit of an unnamed
creek, and continuing southeasterly to the summit of an unnamed mountain
lying due East a distance of 9.7 kilometres and due North approximately
4.5 kilometres from the summit of Mount Perry;


thence southwesterly and westerly along the southeasterly and southerly
watershed boundaries of Lord River and passing through the summits of
Mount Perry, Mount Wheatley, Mount Tait, Mount Dodds, Mount Henderson,
Mount Mills, Mount Porter to the summit of Mount Fulgora;


thence northerly and northwesterly along the southerly and southwesterly
watershed boundaries of Chilko Lake passing through the summit of Mount
Sawt and crossing Npigwq, Ramose and Norrington Glaciers to the summit
of an unnamed mountain west of Norrington Glacier and north of Durham
Glacier;


thence in a straight line on a bearing of 3° a distance of 4.7
kilometres;


thence northwesterly in a straight line to the summit of the Joker;


thence southwesterly along the height of land through the summits of
Coronel and Wednesday Mountains to the summit of Scharnhorst Mountain;


thence in a straight line on a bearing of 277° a distance of 1.1
kilometres;


thence in a straight line on a bearing of 339° a distance of 1.0
kilometre;


thence in a straight line on a bearing of 15° to the intersection with
the height of land between Goddard Glacier and Otranto Glacier;


thence northeasterly along the height of land to the summit of Mount
Marston;


thence northeasterly along the height of land between Boulanger Creek
and Farrow Creek to the summit of an unnamed mountain located
approximately 1.5 kilometres south of Good Hope Mountain;


thence westerly and northerly along the southerly and westerly watershed
boundaries of Franklyn Arm of Chilko Lake and passing through the
summits of Mount Durham and Majestic, Regal and Consort Peaks,
continuing northerly to the summit of an unnamed mountain lying due West
a distance of one kilometre and due North a distance of approximately
750 metres from the summit of Mount Dartmouth;


thence northerly along the westerly watershed boundary of Chilko Lake
and passing through the summits of Mounts Derick, McKinney, Macphail and
Whitton and continuing to a point lying due West a distance of 12.1
kilometres and due South a distance of approximately 900 metres from the
southwest corner of "Chilco Lake" Indian Reserve No. 1, Range 2, Coast
District;


thence in a straight line on a bearing of 11° a distance of
approximately 6.9 kilometres crossing Stikelan Pass to the summit of an
unnamed mountain lying due North a distance of 3.8 kilometres and due
West a distance of approximately 9.25 kilometres from the northwest
corner of District Lot 1416, Range 2, Coast District, being "Chilco
Lake" Indian Reserve 1A;


thence northerly along the westerly watershed boundary of Chilko Lake,
crossing Cheshi Pass and passing through the summit of Tullin Mountain
to a point lying due South a distance of 300 metres and due West a
distance of approximately 2.4 kilometres from the southwest corner of
District Lot 599, Range 2, Coast District;


thence in a straight line on a bearing of 56° to the intersection with
the 4 500 foot (1 372 metre) contour;

thence due East a distance of 500 metres;

thence due South a distance of approximately 1.5 kilometres to the right
bank natural boundary of Chilko River;


thence in a straight line to the most northerly point of an unnamed
peninsula situated at the most northerly point of Chilko Lake lying on
the natural boundary of Chilko Lake;


thence southeasterly along the northerly shore natural boundary of
Chilko Lake, on the unnamed peninsula, to the most easterly point of the
unnamed peninsula;


thence due East to the intersection with the 4 000 foot (1 219 metre)
contour;


thence northeasterly along that contour to the intersection with the
middle line of the most easterly tributary of an unnamed creek flowing
northwesterly into Chilko River;


thence southeasterly in a straight line to the 5040' Horizontal Control
Point as shown on NTS Map 92 N/9, Edition 2, being a point on the
easterly watershed boundary of Chilko Lake;


thence southwesterly along the watershed boundary of Chilko Lake to a
point lying due North a distance of 300 metres and due West a distance
of approximately 400 metres from the northwest corner of District Lot
1660, Range 2, Coast District;


thence southeasterly in a straight line to the most southerly southwest
corner of District Lot 1660;


thence in a straight line on a bearing of 145° a distance of
approximately 2.7 kilometres to a point on the easterly watershed
boundary of Chilko Lake;


thence southerly and southeasterly along the easterly watershed boundary
of Chilko Lake to a point lying due North a distance of 300 metres and
due West a distance of approximately 1.9 kilometres from the summit of
Mount Nemaia;


thence in a straight line on a bearing of 210° a distance of
approximately 1.3 kilometres to the intersection with the confluence of
the middle lines of an unnamed creek and the most easterly tributary of
the unnamed creek flowing southwesterly into Chilko Lake;


thence southwesterly along the middle line of unnamed creek to the
intersection with the northerly boundary of District Lot 1416, being
"Chilco Lake" Indian Reserve No. 1A;


thence westerly along the northerly boundary of District Lot 1416 to the
northwest corner of District Lot 1416 and being a point on the easterly
shore natural boundary of Chilko Lake;


thence southeasterly along the westerly boundary of District Lot 1416,
being "Chilco Lake" Indian Reserve No. 1A and continuing southeasterly
along the westerly boundary of "Chilco Lake" Indian Reserve No. 1A to
the southwest corner of "Chilco Lake" Indian Reserve No. 1A, being the
point of commencement;

except District Lot 1811, Range 2, Coast District.

The whole park containing approximately 233 240 hectares.




TSÚTSWECW PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Kamloops Division, Yale
District and contained within the following described boundaries:


Firstly: commencing at the intersection of the northerly boundary of the
"Quaaout" Indian Reserve No. 1 and the easterly boundary of the west 1/2
of the northwest 1/4 of the southeast 1/4 of Section 28, Township 22,
Range 12, W6M;


thence northerly along that easterly boundary to the northerly boundary
of the southeast 1/4 of Section 28;

thence due West 402.34 metres;

thence due North approximately 804.67 metres to the southerly boundary
of the southwest 1/4 of Section 33;


thence westerly along the southerly boundary of the southwest 1/4 of
Section 33 to a point lying due South of the southeast corner of Block A
of Section 33;


thence due North to the southeast corner of Block A of Section 33;


thence northerly and westerly along the easterly and northerly
boundaries of Block A to the northwest corner of Block A;


thence due West to the easterly boundary of Legal Subdivision 2 of
Section 32;


thence northerly along the easterly boundary of Legal Subdivision 2 of
Section 32;


thence northerly along the easterly boundary of Legal Subdivision 2, and
continuing northerly along the easterly boundary of Legal Subdivision 7
to the southerly boundary of Block B of Section 32;


thence easterly along the southerly boundary of Block B to the southeast
corner of Block B;


thence in a general northwesterly direction along the northeasterly
boundary of Block B to the most northerly corner of Block B, being a
point on the easterly boundary of Block A of Section 32;


thence northerly and westerly along the easterly and northerly
boundaries of Block A to the northwest corner of Block A;


thence due West to the easterly boundary of Legal Subdivision 11 of
Section 32;


thence northerly along the easterly boundary of Legal Subdivision 11 to
the northeast corner of the south 1/2 of Legal Subdivision 11;


thence westerly along the northerly boundary of the south 1/2 of Legal
Subdivision 11, and continuing westerly along the northerly boundaries
of the south 1/2 of Legal Subdivision 12 of Section 32 and the southeast
1/4 of Legal Subdivision 9 of Section 31 to the northwest corner of the
southeast 1/4;


thence northerly along the easterly boundary of the northwest 1/4 of the
Legal Subdivision 9, and continuing northerly along the easterly
boundary of the west 1/2 of Legal Subdivision 16 to the northerly
boundary of Section 31;


thence westerly along the northerly boundary of Section 31 to a point
lying due South of the most southerly corner of Block B of Lot 1845;


thence due North to the most southerly corner of Block B of Lot 1845;


thence in a general northeasterly and northwesterly direction along the
southeasterly and northeasterly boundaries of Block B, and continuing
northwesterly along the northeasterly boundary of Block A of Lot 1845 to
the most northerly corner of Block A;


thence in a northerly direction in a straight line to the most easterly
corner of Lot 1884;


thence northwesterly along the northeasterly boundary of Lot 1884 to the
most easterly corner of Lot 1312;


thence northerly and westerly along the easterly and northerly
boundaries of Lot 1312 to the northwest corner of Lot 1312;

thence due West 201.17 metres;

thence due North to the southerly boundary of Lot 5911;


thence easterly and northerly along the southerly and easterly
boundaries of Lot 5911 and continuing northerly along the easterly
boundaries of Lots 5885 and 6010 to the northeast corner of Lot 6010;


thence westerly along the northerly boundary of Lot 6010 to the
northwest corner of Lot 6010;


thence due West to the westerly boundary of Legal Subdivision 16,
Section 6, Township 23, Range 12, W6M;


thence northerly along the westerly boundary of Legal Subdivision 16 and
continuing northerly along the westerly boundary of Legal Subdivision 1
of Section 7 to the southerly boundary of "Toops" Indian Reserve No. 3;


thence easterly along the southerly boundary of "Toops" Indian Reserve
No. 3 to the right bank natural boundary of Adams River;


thence in a general northerly direction along the natural boundary of
Adams River and the westerly shore natural boundary of Adams Lake to the
southerly limit of the right of way as shown on Plan C9610;


thence easterly along the southerly limit of the right of way as shown
on Plan C9610 to the easterly shore natural boundary of Adams Lake,
being a point on the westerly boundary of "Hustalen" Indian Reserve No.
1;


thence in a general southerly and easterly direction along the westerly
and southerly boundaries of the "Hustalen" Indian Reserve No. 1 to the
easterly boundary of Legal Subdivision 4 of Section 8, Township 23,
Range 12, W6M;


thence southerly along the easterly boundary of Legal Subdivision 4 and
continuing southerly along the easterly boundary of Legal Subdivision 13
of Section 5 to the southwest corner of the north 1/2 of Legal
Subdivision 14;


thence easterly along the southerly boundary of the north 1/2 of Legal
Subdivision 14 to the southeast corner of Legal Subdivision 14;


thence southerly along the easterly boundary of the Legal Subdivision 14
and continuing southerly along the easterly boundary of Legal
Subdivision 11 to the southeast corner of Legal Subdivision 11;


thence easterly and southerly along the northerly and easterly
boundaries of Legal Subdivision 7 to the southeast corner of Legal
Subdivision 7;


thence easterly along the northerly boundary of Legal Subdivision 1 and
continuing easterly along the northerly boundary of Legal Subdivision 4
of Section 4 to the northeast corner of Section 4;


thence southerly along the easterly boundary the Legal Subdivision 4 to
the southwest corner of the north 1/2 of Legal Subdivision 3;


thence easterly along the southerly boundary of the north 1/2 of the
Legal Subdivision 3 to the southeast corner of Legal Subdivision 3;


thence Southerly along the easterly boundary of the Legal Subdivision 3
to the northerly boundary of Section 32, Township 22, Range 12, W6M;


thence easterly along the northerly boundaries of Sections 32 and 33 to
the northeast corner of the west 1/2 of the northwest 1/4 of Section 33;


thence Southerly along the easterly boundary of the west 1/2 of the
northwest 1/4 of Section 33 to the northerly boundary of the south 1/2
of Section 33;


thence easterly along the northerly boundary of the south 1/2 of Section
33 to the northeast corner of Legal Subdivision 7;


thence southerly along the easterly boundary of the Legal Subdivision 7
and continuing southerly along the easterly boundary of Legal
Subdivision 2 to the southeast corner of Legal Subdivision 2;


thence easterly along the southerly boundary of Legal Subdivision 1 to
the southeast corner of Legal Subdivision 1;


thence southerly along the westerly boundaries of Legal Subdivisions 13
and 12 of Section 27 to the northwest corner of the south 1/2 of the
Legal Subdivision 12;


thence easterly along the northerly boundary of the south 1/2 of Legal
Subdivision 12 and continuing easterly along the northerly boundaries of
the south 1/2 of Legal Subdivisions 11 and 10 to the point of
intersection with southerly boundary of Adams Plateau - Corning Forest
Road as shown on Ministry of Forests' Drawing 7-81-K;


thence in a general southeasterly direction along the southerly boundary
to the point of intersection with the westerly boundary of Legal
Subdivision 9 of Section 27, Township 22, Range 12, W6M;


thence southerly and easterly along the westerly and southerly
boundaries of the Legal Subdivision 9 to the northwest corner of the
Fractional south 1/2 of Section 26;


thence easterly along the northerly boundary of the Fractional south 1/2
of Section 26 to the northeast corner of Section 26;


thence southerly along the easterly boundary of the Fractional south 1/2
of Section 26 to the southeast corner of Section 26;


thence easterly along the northerly boundary of Fractional Section 24 to
the westerly shore natural boundary of Shuswap Lake;


thence in a general southerly direction along the natural boundary of
Shuswap Lake to the westerly boundary of Fractional Section 24;


thence southerly in a straight line to the most easterly point of
"Quaaout" Indian Reserve No. 1;


thence in a general westerly direction along the northerly boundary of
the "Quaaout" Indian Reserve No. 1 to the intersection of the easterly
boundary of the west 1/2 of the northwest 1/4 of the southeast 1/4 of
Section 28, Township 22, Range 12, W6M, being the point of commencement;


except (1) Holding Road, No. 451; (2) Squilax-Anglemont Road, No. 446;
(3) the road shown on Plan KAP42083 or on the Official Plan deposited in
the Crown Land Registry as Plan 30 Tube 1465; (4) the road shown on
Plan EPC #56 on file in the Crown Land Registry; and (5) the land shown
on Plans KAP83136, KAP83135 and KAP48895.


Secondly: the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 11 Tube 1778,
containing approximately 88 hectares.


The whole park containing approximately 1 073 hectares.




TUDYAH LAKE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Cariboo District and
contained within the following described boundaries:


Commencing at the most southerly corner of Block A of District Lot
11627, being a point on the westerly boundary of John Hart Highway, as
shown on Plan H-213, on deposit in the Land Title Office in Prince
George;


thence in a southerly direction along the westerly boundary of John Hart
Highway, Plan H-213 and continuing in a southerly direction along the
westerly boundary of John Hart Peace River Highway, Plan 28193, to a
point lying 392 metres due South and approximately 100 metres due East
of the southwest corner of District Lot 11627;


thence due West to the right bank natural boundary of Pack River;


thence in a general northerly direction along the right bank natural
boundary of Pack River to, and in a general southerly, westerly,
southerly, easterly and northerly direction along the natural boundary
of a back channel of Pack River, to the southerly shore natural boundary
of Tudyah Lake;


thence in a general southeasterly direction along the southerly shore
natural boundary of Tudyah Lake to the most easterly northeast corner of
District Lot 11609, being a point;


thence southerly along the easterly boundary of District Lot 11609 to
the westerly boundary of John Hart Peace River Highway, Plan 28193;


thence in a southwesterly direction along the westerly boundary of John
Hart Peace River Highway, Plan 28193 and continuing in a southwesterly
direction along the westerly boundary of John Hart Highway, Plan H-213
to the most easterly corner of Block A of District Lot 11627, being a
point on the westerly boundary of John Hart Highway;


thence northwesterly, southwesterly and southeasterly along the
northeasterly, northwesterly and southwesterly boundaries of Block A of
District Lot 11627, to the most southerly corner of District Lot 11627,
being the point of commencement.


The whole park containing approximately 56 hectares.




TUYA MOUNTAINS PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Cassiar District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 6 Tube 1868.


The whole park containing approximately 18 001 hectares.




TWEEDSMUIR PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Range 2, Coast District,
Range 3, Coast District and Range 4, Coast District and within UTM Zone
9 and contained within the following described boundaries:


Firstly: commencing at the northwest corner of District Lot 1432, Range
4, Coast District;


thence southerly along the westerly boundaries of District Lots 1432 and
1431 to the southwest corner of District Lot 1431, being a point on the
northerly shore natural boundary of Tetachuck Lake;


thence southerly in a straight line to the southwest corner of District
Lot 1433, being a point on the southerly shore natural boundary of
Tetachuck Lake;


thence easterly and northerly along the southerly and easterly
boundaries of District Lot 1433 to the southwest corner of District Lot
1434;


thence easterly and northerly along the southerly and easterly
boundaries of District Lot 1434 to the southwest corner of District Lot
1435;


thence easterly along the southerly boundary of District Lot 1435 to the
westerly boundary of District Lot 1437;


thence southerly along the westerly boundaries of District Lots 1437 and
1438 to the southwest corner of District Lot 1438;


thence southerly to UTM North 5899473 metres East 699563 metres;


thence easterly to the southwest corner of District Lot 1507, Range 4,
Coast District;


thence southerly to the northwest corner of Entiako Park at UTM North
588632 metres;


thence southerly along the westerly boundary of Entiako Park to the
southwest corner at UTM North 5877866 metres East 716506 metres;


thence southerly to UTM North 5860603 metres East 717231 metres;

thence to UTM North 5860746 metres East 720265 metres;
thence to UTM North 5855369 metres East 720531 metres;
thence to UTM North 5851100 metres East 729909 metres;
thence to UTM N 5848694 metres East 730026 metres;
thence to UTM North 5848537 metres East 726804 metres;
thence to UTM North 5838166 metres East 727309 metres;
thence to UTM North 5829407 metres East 721755 metres;

thence southerly to the summit of Hotnarko Mountain, being a point on
the northerly boundary of the watershed of Precipice Creek at
approximately UTM North 5819480 metres East 722205 metres;


thence westerly along the northerly boundary of the watershed of
Precipice Creek to the westerly boundary of the watershed of Precipice
Creek;


thence in a general southerly direction along the westerly boundary of
the watershed of Precipice Creek and continuing in a general southerly
direction along the westerly boundary of the watershed of an unnamed
creek produced to the intersection of the middle line of Hotnarko River
with the middle line of Telegraph Creek, with an unnamed creek being
tributary to, and flowing southerly into Hotnarko River, at a point
approximately 250 metres to the northeast of the confluence of Telegraph
Creek and Hotnarko River;


thence southerly in a straight line to the intersection of the left bank
natural boundary of Hotnarko River with the northerly prolongation of
the westerly boundary of the watershed of Telegraph Creek;


thence southerly to and continuing in a general southerly direction
along the westerly boundary of the watershed of Telegraph Creek to the
northerly boundary of the watershed of Atnarko River;


thence westerly along the northerly boundary of the watershed of Atnarko
River to the summit of Trumpeter Mountain, being a point, at
approximately UTM North 5794181 metres East 728947 metres;


thence southerly in a straight line to the summit of Mount Ada, being a
point on the easterly boundary of the watershed of Rainbow Lake, at
approximately UTM North 5780678 metres East 729419 metres;


thence in a general southerly direction along the easterly boundary of
the watersheds of Rainbow Lake, Elbow Lake and South Atnarko River, to
the westerly boundary of the watershed of Jobin Creek;


thence southerly along the westerly boundary of the watershed of Jobin
Creek to UTM North 5754566 metres;


thence westerly to UTM North 5752541 metres East 313368 metres;


thence westerly to the northeast corner of District Lot 165 and
continuing westerly along the northerly boundary of District Lot 165;


thence westerly in a straight line to the summit of Monarch Mountain;


thence westerly to UTM North 5754306 metres East 711262 metres;


thence north to the left bank natural boundary of the Talchako River at
UTM North 5770916 metres;


thence in a general northwesterly direction along the left bank natural
boundaries of Talchako and Bella Coola Rivers to a point lying due South
of the intersection of the right bank natural boundary of Burnt Bridge
Creek with the right bank natural boundary of Bella Coola River;


thence due North to the intersection of the right bank natural boundary
of Burnt Bridge Creek;


thence in a northerly along the right bank natural boundary of Burnt
Bridge Creek to its intersection with the right bank natural boundary of
an unnamed creek flowing southeasterly into Burnt Bridge Creek at
approximately UTM North 5817097 metres;


thence in a westerly and northerly direction along the right bank
natural boundary of the unnamed creek to the southerly shore natural
boundary of the largest of the unnamed lakes, at the headwaters of the
unnamed creek;


thence westerly and northerly along the southerly and westerly natural
boundaries of the unnamed lake, to the lake's most northerly point, at
approximately UTM North 5823926 metres UTM East 693085 metres;


thence due North to the summit of the "Cascade Mountains" as defined in
the
Interpretation Act
;


thence in a general northwesterly direction along the summit of the
"Cascade Mountains" to UTM North 5847024 metres shown on Plan 5
Tube 1897 deposited in the Crown Land Registry;


thence to UTM East 679355 metres on the left bank natural boundary of
the Dean River;


thence to UTM East 679355 metres on the southerly boundary of the
watershed of the streams flowing into Sigutlat Lake, being the summit of
the "Cascade Mountains";


thence in a general northwesterly direction along the summit of the
"Cascade Mountains" to UTM North 5909029 metres shown on the Official
Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 5 Tube 1863;


thence northeasterly in a straight line on a bearing of approximately
60° to triangulation station identified as 6217° on National Topographic
System (N.T.S.) Map 93E/6, Edition 2;


thence northeasterly in a straight line to triangulation station 6317°
as shown on N.T.S. Map 93E/6, Edition 2;


thence northeasterly in a straight line to the intersection of the right
bank natural boundary of Chikamin Creek with the southerly shore natural
boundary of Whitesail Lake;


thence in a general easterly direction along the southerly shore natural
boundaries of Whitesail Lake, Whitesail Reach and Ootsa Lake to a point
on the natural boundary of Ootsa Lake, at UTM East 692228 metres;


thence southerly to the northwest corner of District Lot 1432, being the
point of commencement;


except those parts of Chilcotin-Bella Coola Highway, Number 20, as shown
outlined in red on Ministry of Transportation and Highways' Drawings
47-A20-119, Sheets 1 to 17.


Secondly: all those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all
that foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Range 4, Coast
District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the
Official Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 5
Tube 1863; except Mineral Claim "XK1412" 241413.


Thirdly: the Crown land situated in Range 3, Coast District described as
the northwest 1/4 of Section 9, Township 9 and Lot A, Section 33,
Township 9, Plan VIP62618, on file with the Victoria Land Title Office;


except those parts of Highway Number 20 as shown outlined in red on
Ministry of Transportation and Highways' Drawings 47-A20-119 sheets 12
to 17.


Fourthly: the most westerly 402.336 metres (20 chains) of District Lot
770, Range 3, Coast District; except that part in Plan VIP54691.


The whole park containing approximately 989 714 hectares.




TYHEE LAKE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Townships 4 and 5, Range
5 Coast District and contained within the following described
boundaries:


Firstly: Block "A" of the Fractional northeast 1/4 of Section 35.


The Fractional northeast 1/4 of Section 35, except the southwest 1/4 of
the Fractional northeast corner of Section 35 and the south 1/2 of the
northwest 1/4 of Block "A".


Secondly: commencing at the intersection of the south boundary of the
Fractional northeast 1/4 of Section 35, and the natural boundary of
Tyhee Lake;

thence due East a distance of 61 metres;

thence northerly along a line parallel and 61 metres perpendicularly
distant from the natural boundary of Tyhee Lake to a point lying due
East of the intersection of the north boundary of the northeast 1/4,
Section 35 and the natural boundary of Tyhee Lake;

thence due West to the natural boundary of Tyhee Lake;

thence southerly along the natural boundary of Tyhee Lake to the point
of commencement.


Thirdly: Lot 6, Section 2, Township 4, Range 5 Coast District, Plan
10278; except that part subdivided by Plan EPP242.


The whole park containing approximately 39 hectares.




UNION PASSAGE MARINE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Range 4, Coast District
and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official
Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 15 Tube 1975.


The whole park containing approximately 1 444 hectares
(1 014 hectares of upland and 430 hectares of foreshore).




UPPER ADAMS RIVER PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in the Kamloops Division,
Yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on
the Official Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 1
Tube 1987; except (1) a 30 metre right of way centred on Ministry
of Forests and Range road Adams West, FSR 7458-01; (2) a 30 metre right
of way centred on Ministry of Forests and Range road Adams East, FSR
7458-12; (3) a 30 metre right of way centred on Ministry of Forests and
Range road Finn Tum, FSR 0565-03; (4) a 30 metre right of way centred on
Ministry of Forests and Range road Tumtum Harbour, FSR 5072-07; and (5)
a 30 metre right of way centred on Ministry of Forests and Range road
Oliver Creek, FSR 5072-10.


The whole park containing approximately 5 868 hectares.




UPPER LILLOOET PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Lillooet District and
contained within the following described boundaries:


Commencing at Iron Post 21, being a line post on the westerly boundary
of District Lot 2340 as shown on Plan 4 Tube 1087 on file with the
Surveyor General of British Columbia;


thence on a bearing of 87° crossing Lillooet River a distance of 1.70
kilometres;


thence on a bearing of 359° a distance of 3.90 kilometres;

thence on a bearing of 307° a distance of 970 metres;

thence westerly on an approximate bearing of 275° a distance of
approximately 4.86 kilometres to the summit of an unnamed mountain
separating unnamed creeks flowing southerly into Lillooet River;


thence on a bearing of 297° a distance of 3.10 kilometres;


thence on a bearing of 274° a distance of 3.50 kilometres;


thence on a bearing of 233° a distance of 3.10 kilometres;


thence on a bearing of 193° a distance of 2.75 kilometres;


thence on a bearing of 149° a distance of approximately 1.76 kilometres
to the height of land separating 2 unnamed creeks flowing northeasterly
into Lillooet River;


thence due South a distance of approximately 8.78 kilometres to a point
lying 600 metres due South and approximately 4.0 kilometres due East of
the summit of Dolphin Peak;


thence on a bearing of 119° a distance of approximately 5.3 kilometres
to the right bank natural boundary of an unnamed creek flowing
southeasterly into Meager Creek and located East of Manatee Glacier;


thence southeasterly along the right bank natural boundary of the
unnamed creek to a point lying 240 metres due South and approximately
740 metres due West of the intersection between the right bank natural
boundary of the unnamed creek and the left bank natural boundary of
Meager Creek;


thence on a bearing of 13°, a distance of 3.48 kilometres;


thence on an approximate bearing of 351° a distance of approximately
3.72 kilometres to the summit of an unnamed mountain on the northerly
boundary of the watershed of Meager Creek and situated west of Mount
Job;


thence on a bearing of 41° a distance of approximately 5.91 kilometres
to the height of land separating those creeks flowing northwesterly into
Lillooet River, from those flowing northeasterly into Lillooet River and
situated northwest of Plinth Peak;


thence northwesterly in a straight line to Iron Post 21, being a line
post on the westerly boundary of District Lot 2340, and the point of
commencement;


except (1) Mineral Claim "GPC #1" 332441; and (2) Mineral Claim "GPC #8"
332448.


The whole park containing approximately 19 996 hectares.




UPPER SEYMOUR RIVER PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Kamloops Division, Yale
District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the
Official Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 5
Tube 1854; except (1) a 30 metre right of way centred on Ministry
of Forests' Seymour West Road 7271-03; (2) a 30 metre right of way
centred on Ministry of Forests' Permit Road RO7629 Section 18-7; and (3)
Forest Licence A 18669, CP 705 Block 2 and a 30 metre right of way for
the new road necessary to access CP 705 Block 2 and resource lands
beyond the park.


The whole park containing approximately 10 672 hectares.




VALHALLA PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Kootenay District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 4 Tube 2024.


The whole park containing approximately 50 159 hectares.




VARGAS ISLAND PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Clayoquot District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 6 Tube 1846; except
(1) District Lots 1459, 1433 and Parcel 'A' of District Lot 1457; (2)
"Ahous" Indian Reserve No. 16; and (3) "Vargas Island" Indian Reserve
No. 31.


The whole park containing approximately 5 805 hectares
(1 543 hectares of upland and 4 262 hectares of
foreshore).




VASEUX LAKE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Similkameen Division,
Yale District and contained within the following described boundaries:


Firstly: that part of Sublot 15 of District Lot 2710 lying to the west
of Plan A413 except the south 1 124.5 metres of Sublot 15 of District
Lot 2710 and Plan A868.


Lot 18 of Sublot 15 of District Lot 2710, Plan 11377 except Plan A868.


Secondly: the waters of Vaseux Lake, more particularly described as
commencing at the point of intersection of the westerly boundary of
Sublot 15 of Lot 2710 with the northerly shore natural boundary of
Vaseux Lake;


thence in an easterly and southerly direction along the natural boundary
of Vaseux Lake to the point of intersection with the southerly boundary
of Lot 18 of Lot 2710, Plan 11377;


thence southwesterly along the southwesterly prolongation of the
southerly boundary of Lot 18 of Lot 2710, Plan 11377 100 metres more or
less;


thence in a northerly and westerly direction, parallel to and 100 metres
perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of Vaseux Lake to a
point lying due South of the point of commencement;


thence due North 100 metres more or less to the point of commencement.


The whole park containing approximately 11.5 hectares
(5.5 hectares of upland and 6 hectares of foreshore).




VICTOR LAKE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Kamloops Division, Yale
District and contained within the following described boundaries:


Fractional Legal Subdivision 1, Section 18, Township 23, Range 3, W6M,
except the Trans Canada Highway right of way and Plan 1879 (Canadian
Pacific Railway right of way).


The whole park containing approximately 14.7 hectares.




WAKES COVE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Nanaimo District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 14 Tube 1999.


The whole park containing approximately 205 hectares
(132 hectares of upland and 73 hectares of foreshore).




WALLACE ISLAND MARINE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Cowichan District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 3 Tube 1896; except
(1) Lot 1, Plan 18704; and (2) Lot A, Wallace Island, Plan 32656.


The whole park containing approximately 89 hectares
(85 hectares of upland and 4 hectares of foreshore).




WALLOPER LAKE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Kamloops Division, Yale
District and contained within the following described boundaries:


Firstly: commencing at the most westerly northwest corner of District
Lot 1501;


thence due South approximately 201 metres to the point of intersection
with the northerly shore natural boundary of Walloper Lake;


thence in a general northerly direction along the natural boundary of
Walloper Lake to the most westerly southwest corner of District Lot
1501;


thence Northwesterly along the west boundary of District Lot 1501 to the
point of commencement.


Secondly: commencing at a point on the southerly shore natural boundary
of Walloper Lake lying due South of the most westerly northwest corner
of District Lot 1501;

thence due South 181 metres;

thence South 85° East a distance of approximately 986 metres to the
southerly shore natural boundary of Walloper Lake;


thence in a general westerly direction along the natural boundary of
Walloper Lake to the point of commencement.


Thirdly: commencing at the most southerly southwest corner of District
Lot 1808;

thence South 12° East a distance of 81 metres;
thence South 27° West a distance of 555 metres;

thence North 85° West a distance of approximately 110 metres to the
southerly shore natural boundary of Walloper Lake;


thence in a general northeasterly direction along the natural boundary
of Walloper Lake to the point of intersection with the westerly boundary
of District Lot 1808;


thence in a general southerly direction along the westerly boundary of
District Lot 1808 to the point of commencement.


Fourthly: commencing at the point of intersection of the southwest
corner of District Lot 1226 and the northerly shore natural boundary of
Walloper Lake;


thence northerly along the westerly boundary of District Lot 1226 a
distance of 95.15 metres;


thence due West to a point of intersection with the southerly boundary
of Meadow Creek Road;


thence in a general westerly direction along the southerly boundaries of
Meadow Creek Road and then the Coquihalla Highway to a point lying due
North of the northeast corner of District Lot 179;


thence due South to the northeast corner of District Lot 179;


thence southerly along the easterly boundary of District Lot 179 to the
point of intersection with the northerly shore natural boundary of
Walloper Lake;


thence in a general easterly direction along the natural boundary of
Walloper Lake to the point of commencement.


The whole park containing approximately 55 hectares.




WALSH COVE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Group 1, New Westminster
District and contained within the following described boundaries:

Firstly: District Lots 5371 and 5372.

Secondly: the water of Waddington Channel described as commencing at the
point of intersection of the Northeast corner of District Lot 5371 and
the natural boundary of Waddington Channel;


thence South 15° West to a point, lying due East of the southeast of
Block A of District Lot 5372;


thence due West to the natural boundary of Waddington Channel;


thence in a general northerly direction along the natural boundary of
Waddington Channel to the point of commencement.


The whole park containing approximately 85 hectares
(39 hectares of upland and 46 hectares of foreshore).




WAPITI LAKE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Peace River District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 1 Tube 1846.


The whole park containing approximately 16 809 hectares.




WARDNER PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Kootenay District and
contained within the following described boundaries:


Lot 1 of Lot 1901, Plan 9265, subject to existing rights under the
Water Act
.


The whole park containing approximately 4 hectares.




WASA LAKE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Kootenay District and
contained within the following described boundaries:

Firstly: Block C, District Lot 264, Plan 2331.
Block A, District Lot 264, Plan 2064.
Lot 1, Block B, District Lot 264, Plan 2771.

Lot 25, District Lot 264, Plan 4843, except Plan 18608.


Lot 9, District Lot 264, Plan 4843; except a 20 metre right of way
centred on Wasa Lake Drive; and (2) Wolf Creek Road No. 41, a 20.12
metre right of way shown on Plan 3 Tube RY172.


Secondly: commencing at the point of intersection of the southeast
corner of Lot 2, Block B, District Lot 264, Plan 2771 and the northerly
shore natural boundary of Wasa Lake;


thence southeasterly along the prolongation of the easterly boundary of
Lot 2 to a point lying 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the
easterly shore natural boundary of Wasa Lake;


thence in a general southerly and easterly direction along a line drawn
parallel to and 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the northerly
shore natural boundary of Wasa Lake to a point being UTM N 5515456
metres, UTM Zone 11;


thence northeasterly to the point of intersection of the easterly shore
natural boundary of Wasa Lake and the east boundary of Block A, District
Lot 264, Plan 2064;


thence in a westerly and northerly direction along the easterly shore
natural boundary of Wasa Lake to the point of commencement.


Thirdly: Block 1, District Lot 3000, Plan 2344, except Old
Warner-Columbia Highway No. 5, as shown on Road Survey 1432.


Parcel 'A' (see 109592I), Block 26, District Lot 3000, Plan 2344.


Fourthly: commencing at the point of intersection of the southwest
corner of Lot 2, District Lot 3000, Plan 2673 and the easterly shore
natural boundary of Wasa Lake;


thence West along the prolongation of the southerly boundary of Lot 2 to
a point lying 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the easterly shore
natural boundary of Wasa Lake;


thence in a southerly direction along a line drawn parallel to and 100
metres perpendicularly distant from the easterly shore natural boundary
of Wasa Lake to a point lying due West of the southerly boundary of
Block 1, District Lot 3000, Plan 2344;


thence East to the point of intersection of the southerly boundary of
Block 1, District Lot 3000, Plan 2344 and the easterly shore natural
boundary of Wasa Lake;


thence in a northerly direction along the easterly shore natural
boundary of Wasa Lake to the point of commencement.


Fifthly: commencing at a point on the easterly boundary of Block 26,
District Lot 3000, 506.06 metres north of the southeast corner of Block
26;


thence northerly 201.22 metres along the easterly boundary of Block 26;

thence due East 201.22 metres;
thence due South 201.22 metres;

thence West in a straight line approximately 201.22 metres to the point
of commencement.


The whole park containing approximately 154 hectares
(135 hectares of upland and 19 hectares of foreshore).




WEEWANIE HOT SPRINGS PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Range 4, Coast District
and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official
Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 10 Tube 1886.


The whole park containing approximately 35 hectares
(23 hectares of upland and 12 hectares of foreshore).




WEST ARM PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Kootenay District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 9 Tube 1997; except
(1) the Canadian Pacific Railway right of way and the Burlington &
Northern Railway right of way along the West Arm of Kootenay Lake (as
shown on various Plans); (2) Mineral Claim 234932; (3) Mineral Claim
234933; (4) Mineral Claim 234934; (5) Mineral Claim 234935; (6)
Mineral Claim 234936; and (7) the 10 metres on either side of the
constructed centreline of Svoboda Road.


The whole park containing approximately 26 197 hectares.




WEST LAKE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Cariboo District and
contained within the following described boundaries:


Firstly: the northwest 1/4 of District Lot 1887; except West Lake-Fraser
River Road 330, a section 42
Transportation Act
highway.


The northeast 1/4 of District Lot 1887; except West Lake-Fraser River
Road.


The southeast 1/4 of District Lot 1887; except Plan 18350 and the old
and new rights of way of the West Lake-Fraser River Road 330 as shown on
Ministry of Transportation's Road Survey Plan 7511.

Lot 1 of District Lot 1887, Plan 18350.

That part of the southeast 1/4 of District Lot 1887 described as the Old
West Lake-Fraser Road 330 shown outlined in green on Ministry of
Transportation's Road Survey Plan 7511 and filed with the Parks
Division, Victoria.

The southwest 1/4 of District Lot 1887.

Secondly: commencing at the northeast corner of District Lot 4292 lying
on the natural boundary of Nadsilnich Lake;


thence East in a straight line to the northwest corner of District Lot
4297 lying on the natural boundary of Nadsilnich Lake;


thence in a general northerly, westerly and southwesterly direction
along the natural boundary of Nadsilnich Lake to the point of
commencement.


Thirdly: that part of the bed of Beaverly Creek contained within
District Lot 1887.


The whole park containing approximately 256 hectares.




WEST SHAWNIGAN LAKE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Malahat District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 3 Tube 1919; except
(1) the Crown land that is the subject of the West Shawnigan Lake Road
right of way Plan RS 1700-I; and (2) the Canadian National Railway right
of way Plan 1201 O.S.


The whole park containing approximately 9.7 hectares.




WEST TWIN PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Cariboo District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 9 Tube 1847.


The whole park containing approximately 22 317 hectares.




WEYMER CREEK PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Nootka District and
contained within the following described boundaries:


Commencing at a point on the summit of an unnamed peak lying
approximately due East 3.25 kilometres of the southeast corner of
District Lot 21;

thence due West a distance of 100 metres;

thence northwesterly on a bearing of 315° a distance of 337 metres;


thence westerly on a bearing of 271° a distance of approximately 350
metres to a point, being the northerly boundary of an unnamed road
(G-7H);


thence northwesterly on a bearing of 312° a distance of approximately
290 metres to a point on an unnamed road (G-7H) on the northerly
boundary of an unnamed road;


thence northerly along the northerly boundary of an unnamed road (G-7H)
to a point lying northwesterly on a bearing of 342° a distance of
approximately 545 metres from the point described in the previous
sentence;


thence northwesterly on a bearing of 307° a distance of approximately
325 metres to a point, being the northerly boundary of an unnamed road;


thence northwesterly on a bearing of 331° a distance of approximately
740 metres to a point, being the natural boundary at the confluence of 2
tributaries of an unnamed creek flowing northwesterly into Tahsis Inlet,
on the most westerly left bank of Tahsis Inlet;


thence northerly along that left bank a distance of 330 metres;


thence northeasterly on a bearing of 72° a distance of 620 metres;


thence northeasterly on a bearing of 8° a distance of 325 metres;


thence southeasterly on a bearing of 94° a distance of approximately 430
metres to a point, being the height of land forming the westerly
boundary of the watershed of Perry River;


thence in a general southeasterly, southerly and southwesterly direction
along the westerly boundary of the watershed of Perry River to the point
of commencement.


The whole park containing approximately 316 hectares.




WHALEBOAT ISLAND MARINE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Nanaimo District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 5 Tube 1899.


The whole park containing approximately 11 hectares
(4 hectares of upland and 7 hectares of foreshore).




WHISKERS POINT PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Cariboo District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 9 Tube 1839.


The whole park containing approximately 116 hectares.




WHITE RIVER PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Rupert District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 1 Tube 1902.


The whole park containing approximately 72 hectares.




WHITESWAN LAKE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Kootenay District and
contained within the following described boundaries:


Commencing at the point of intersection of the right bank of the Lussier
River and the east boundary of Lot 4596;

thence due North to the 1 340 metre contour;

thence in a general southeasterly direction along the 1 340 metre
contour to the point of intersection with the left bank of Mutton Creek;


thence along the left bank of Mutton Creek in a general southerly
direction to the 1 280 metre contour;


thence in a general easterly then general northeasterly direction along
the 1 280 metre contour to a point lying 1 200 metres due North of the
northern boundary of Lot 10325;


thence due East approximately 1 750 metres to the point of intersection
with the left bank of an unnamed creek and the 1 220 metre contour;


thence in a general southerly, then general easterly direction along the
1 220 metre contour to a point lying 600 metres east and 150 metres
north of the point of intersection of the east side of the White River
Forest Road right of way and the right bank of White River;

thence due South to the 1 220 metre contour;

thence in a general westerly, then general southerly direction along the
1 220 metre contour to the point of intersection with the left bank of
Inlet Creek;


thence South 30° West for a distance of approximately 400 metres to the
1 280 metre contour;


thence in a general westerly direction along the 1 280 metre contour to
a point lying 250 metres south and 150 metres east of the intersection
of the left bank of Mutton Creek and the right bank of Lussier River;

thence due West to the 1 280 metre contour;

thence in a general northerly then general westerly direction along the
1 280 metre contour to its point of intersection with the east boundary
of Lot 4596;


thence North along the east boundary of Lot 4596 to the point of
commencement;


except (1) the land that is the subject of the rights of way of the
White River Forest Road; (2) the land that is the subject of the
White-Moscow Forest Road; (3) the land that is the subject of the
White-Coyote Forest Road and the White-Rock Forest Road, as shown in red
on Forest Service Engineering Drawing No. 13-316; and (4) the land that
is the subject of and White-Inlet Forest Road, as shown in red on Forest
Service Engineering Drawing No. 3-301.


The whole park containing approximately 1 994 hectares.




WINDERMERE LAKE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Kootenay District and
contained within the following described boundaries:

Sublot 16 of District Lot 4596, Plan X32;
Block A, Plan DD 3268-I, District Lot 5118;
District Lot 107 except Plans 849 and 1203;
Lots 1 to 9 of District Lot 107, Plan 849;
Lot 1 of District Lot 346, Plan 5332.

The whole park containing approximately 220 hectares.




WIRE CACHE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Kamloops Division, Yale
District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the
Official Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 14
Tube 1789; except Forest Service Road, Project 564-02.


The whole park containing approximately 57 hectares.




WISTARIA PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Range 4, Coast District
and contained within the following described boundaries:

Firstly: Block A of District Lot 916.

Secondly: the foreshore described as commencing at the point of
intersection of the easterly boundary of District Lot 916 and the
natural boundary of Ootsa Lake, being the 859.5 metre contour;


thence South along the easterly boundary of District Lot 916 a distance
of approximately 40 metres;


thence along a line parallel and perpendicularly distance 40 metres from
the natural boundary of Ootsa Lake in a general northwesterly direction
to the point of intersection with the boundary of District Lot 916;


thence North along the westerly boundary of District Lot 916 a distance
of approximately 40 metres to the natural boundary of Ootsa Lake;


thence along the natural boundary of Ootsa Lake in a general
southeasterly direction to the point of commencement.


The whole park containing approximately 40 hectares
(30 hectares upland and 10 hectares of foreshore).




WOSS LAKE PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Rupert District and
contained within the following described boundaries:


Commencing at the southeast corner of District Lot 1145 lying on the
westerly shore natural boundary of Woss Lake;


thence in a general southerly direction along the natural boundary of
Woss Lake a distance of 800 metres;


thence on a bearing of 173° a distance of approximately 2.2 kilometres
to a point of intersection of the easterly shore natural boundary of
Woss Lake with the right bank natural boundary of an unnamed creek;


thence in a general southeasterly direction along the natural boundary
of an unnamed creek a distance of 600 metres;


thence southeasterly on a bearing of 120° to a point of intersection
with the height of land forming the easterly boundary of the watershed
of Woss Lake;


thence in a general southerly, westerly and northerly direction along
the easterly, southerly and westerly boundaries of the watershed of Woss
Lake to a point being the point of intersection of the easterly boundary
of the watershed of Woss Lake with the southerly boundary of the
watershed of an unnamed creek, which is tributary to Woss Lake and whose
confluences in District Lot 1144;


thence in a general easterly and northerly direction along the southerly
and easterly boundaries of the watershed of an unnamed creek to a point
lying due West of the southwest corner of District Lot 1145;


thence due East to the southwest corner of District Lot 1145;


thence easterly along the southerly boundary of District Lot 1145 to the
southeast corner of District Lot 1145, being the point of commencement.


The whole park containing approximately 6 634.2 hectares.




YAHK PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Kootenay District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 6 Tube 1893.


The whole park containing approximately 11 hectares
(9 hectares of upland and 2 hectares of foreshore).




YARD CREEK PARK



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Kamloops Division, Yale
District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the
Official Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 6
Tube 1877.


The whole park containing approximately 175 hectares
(162 hectares of upland and 13 hectares of foreshore).



Contents
|



Sections 1 to 19

|



Schedule A

|



Schedule B

|



Schedule C

|

Schedule C (cont'd) |


Schedule D

|



Schedule E

|



Schedule F





