
"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Land Title Act

Land Title Act Regulation
B.C. Reg. 334/79




BACK OF FORM 21 (a)




This indefeasible title is subject to



(a)

the subsisting conditions, provisos, restrictions, exceptions
and reservations, including royalties, contained in any other
grant or disposition from the Crown,



(b)

a Federal or Provincial tax, rate or assessment at the date of
the application for registration imposed or made a lien or
which may after that date be imposed or made a lien on the
land,



(c)

a municipal charge, rate or assessment at the date of the
application for registration imposed or which may after that
date be imposed on the land, or which had before that date
been imposed for local improvements or otherwise and which was
not then due and payable, including a charge, rate or
assessment imposed by a public body having taxing powers over
an area in which the land is situated,



(d)

a lease or agreement for lease for a term not exceeding 3
years where there is actual occupation under the lease or
agreement,



(e)

a highway or public right of way, watercourse, right of water
or other public easement,



(f)

a right of expropriation or to an escheat under an Act,



(g)
Repealed. [1981-10-24.]


(h)

a caution, caveat, charge, claim of builder's lien, condition,
entry, exception, judgment, certificate of pending litigation,
notice, reservation, right of entry, transfer or other matter
noted or endorsed on the title or which may be noted or
endorsed subsequent to the date of registration of the title,



(i)

the right of a person to show that the whole or a portion of
the land is, by wrong description of boundaries or parcels,
improperly included in the title,



(j)

the right of a person to show fraud, including forgery, in
which the registered owner, or the person from or through whom
the registered owner derived his right or title otherwise than
bona fide for value, has participated in any degree, and



(k)

a restrictive condition, right of reverter or obligation
imposed on the land by the
Forest Act
, endorsed on the title.


