
"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Financial Institutions Act


Financial Institutions Fees Regulation

B.C. Reg. 312/90



1

For processing an application for incorporation of a credit
union under the CUIA or of a trust company or insurance
company under the FIA

$5 000


2

For processing continuation under section 23 of the FIA

$5 000


5

For processing an amalgamation under section 26 of the FIA

$5 000


6

For processing an application for consent of the minister
under section 28 of the FIA to a compromise or arrangement
described in section 28 (1) of that Act, to an acquisition
described in section 28 (2) of that Act or to a reinsurance
described in section 28 (3) of that Act

$5 000


7

For processing an application for conversion under section 21
of the FIA of an insurance company under another Act into an
insurance company under the FIA

$500


14

For processing an application for an approval, consent or
order of the minister, the commission or the superintendent
under section 33, 34, 76 (3), 99 (3), 142 (2) or 226 (3) of
the FIA or section 14 (2), 15, 40 (2), 44 (8), 74 (2) or 76
(9) of the CUIA

$100


15

For processing an application for an approval, consent or
order of the minister, the commission or the superintendent
under section 24 (1), 47 (2), 50 (4), 64 (1), 69, 141 (2), 142
(1), 150 (2) or 276 (c) of the FIA or section 64 (8), 65 (4),
69 (2) or 92 (3) of the CUIA, in a case where no application
for an advanced ruling is received

$500


17

For processing an approval, consent or order of the minister,
the commission or the superintendent under section 24 (1), 47
(2), 50 (4), 64 (1), 69, 141 (2), 142 (1), 150 (2) or 276 (c)
of the FIA or section 64 (8), 65 (4), 69 (2) or 92
(3) of the CUIA, in a case where there has been an advanced
ruling on the application

$100

