
"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Water Act


British Columbia Dam Safety Regulation

B.C. Reg. 44/2000

Water Act




Dam failure consequences classification


Population at risk


Consequences of failure




Loss of life


Environment and cultural values


Infrastructure and economics





Low

None
1


There is no possibility of loss of life other than through
unforeseeable misadventure.


Minimal short-term loss or deterioration and no long-term loss
or deterioration of

(a) fisheries habitat or wildlife habitat,

(b) rare or endangered species, or

(c) unique landscapes or sites of cultural significance.


Minimal economic losses mostly limited to the dam owner's
property, with virtually no pre-existing potential for
development within the dam inundation zone.



Significant

Temporary only
2


Low potential for multiple loss of life.


No significant loss or deterioration of

(a) important fisheries habitat or important wildlife habitat,

(b) rare or endangered species, or

(c) unique landscapes or sites of cultural significance, and

restoration or compensation in kind is highly possible.


Low economic losses affecting limited infrastructure and
residential buildings, public transportation or services or
commercial facilities, or some destruction of or damage to
locations used occasionally and irregularly for temporary
purposes.



High

Permanent
3

10 or fewer

Significant loss or deterioration of

(a) important fisheries habitat or important wildlife habitat,

(b) rare or endangered species, or

(c) unique landscapes or sites of cultural significance, and

restoration or compensation in kind is highly possible.


High economic losses affecting infrastructure, public
transportation or services or commercial facilities, or some
destruction of or some severe damage to scattered residential
buildings.



Very high

Permanent
3

100 or fewer

Significant loss or deterioration of

(a) critical fisheries habitat or critical wildlife habitat,

(b) rare or endangered species, or

(c) unique landscapes or sites of cultural significance, and

restoration or compensation in kind is possible but
impractical.


Very high economic losses affecting important infrastructure,
public transportation or services or commercial facilities, or
some destruction of or some severe damage to residential
areas.



Extreme

Permanent
3

More than 100

Major loss or deterioration of

(a) critical fisheries habitat or critical wildlife habitat,

(b) rare or endangered species, or

(c) unique landscapes or sites of cultural significance, and

restoration or compensation in kind is impossible.


Extremely high economic losses affecting critical
infrastructure, public transportation or services or
commercial facilities, or some destruction of or some severe
damage to residential areas.




1
There is no identifiable population at risk.

2
People are only occasionally and irregularly in the dam-breach
inundation zone, for example stopping temporarily, passing
through on transportation routes or participating in
recreational activities.

3
The population at risk is ordinarily or regularly located in
the dam-breach inundation zone, whether to live, work or
recreate.


