
"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Pharmacy Operations and Drug Scheduling Act

Drug Schedules Regulation
B.C. Reg. 9/98



1
Acyclovir and its salts


1

Adrenocortical hormones and their salts and derivatives

v

, including, but not limited to, hydrocortisone,
hydrocortisone acetate, hydrocortisone valerate,
hydrocortisone sodium succinate, clobetasone butyrate,
difluprednate and triamcinolone acetonide (except

(a) hydrocortisone or hydrocortisone acetate, when sold as a
single medicinal ingredient in a concentration that provides
1% or less hydrocortisone in preparations for topical use on
the skin,

(b) hydrocortisone or hydrocortisone acetate, when sold in
combination with any other non-prescription medicinal
ingredient that provides 1% or less hydrocortisone in
preparations for topical use on the skin,

(c) clobetasone butyrate, when sold in a concentration of
0.05% clobetasone butyrate in cream preparations for topical
use on the skin, and

(d) triamcinolone acetonide in an aqueous nasal spray that
delivers 55 mcg per metered spray for adults and children 12
years of age and older)



1
Azelaic acid


1

Hydrocortisone or hydrocortisone acetate

v

(except when sold in a concentration that provides 1% or less
hydrocortisone in preparations for topical use on the skin,
for adults and children 2 years of age and over, and in
package sizes containing no more than 30 g)



3

Hydrocortisone or hydrocortisone acetate (when sold in a
concentration that provides 1% or less hydrocortisone in
preparations for topical use on the skin, for adults and
children 2 years of age and over, and in package sizes
containing no more than 30 g)



1

Naproxen and its salts (except when sold as naproxen sodium
220 mg per oral dosage unit)



2

Triamcinolone acetonide in an aqueous nasal spray that
delivers 55 mcg per metered spray for adults and children 12
years of age and older, in package sizes containing more than
120 metered sprays



3

Triamcinolone acetonide in an aqueous nasal spray that
delivers 55 mcg per metered spray for adults and children 12
years of age and older, in package sizes containing no more
than 120 metered sprays


