
"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Pharmacy Operations and Drug Scheduling Act

Drug Schedules Regulation
B.C. Reg. 9/98



1

Adrenocortical hormones and their salts and derivativesv,
including, but not limited to, hydrocortisone, hydrocortisone
acetate, hydrocortisone valerate, hydrocortisone sodium
succinate, clobetasone butyrate,

difluprednate, triamcinolone acetonide and fluticasone (except

(a) hydrocortisone or hydrocortisone acetate, when sold as a
single medicinal ingredient in a concentration that provides
1% or less hydrocortisone in preparations for topical use on
the skin,

(b) hydrocortisone or hydrocortisone acetate, when sold in
combination with any other non-prescription medicinal
ingredient that provides 1% or less hydrocortisone in
preparations for topical use on the skin,

(c) clobetasone butyrate, when sold in a concentration of
0.05% clobetasone butyrate in cream preparations for topical
use on the skin,

(d) triamcinolone acetonide in an aqueous nasal spray that
delivers 55 mcg per metered spray for adults and children 12
years of age and older, and

(e) fluticasone propionate, when sold for the treatment of
allergic rhinitis in a nasal spray that delivers 50 mcg per
metered spray for individuals 18 years of age and older)




1

Esomeprazole and its salts except when sold for the 14-day
treatment for frequent heartburn, at a daily dose of 20 mg and
in package sizes of no more than 280 mg of esomeprazole



2

Esomeprazole and its salts when sold for the 14-day treatment
for frequent heartburn, at a daily dose of 20 mg and in
package sizes of no more than 280 mg of esomeprazole



2

Fluticasone propionate when sold for the treatment of allergic
rhinitis in a nasal spray that delivers 50 mcg per metered
spray, for individuals 18 years of age and older and in
package sizes containing more than 120 metered sprays



3

Fluticasone propionate when sold for the treatment of allergic
rhinitis in a nasal spray that delivers 50 mcg per metered
spray, for individuals 18 years of age and older and in
package sizes containing no more than 120 metered sprays



1

Ibuprofen and its salts except when sold in

(a) an oral dosage form that provides 400 mg or less per
dosage unit, or

(b) a modified-release oral dosage form that provides 600 mg
or less per dosage unit



3

Ibuprofen and its salts when sold in a modified-release oral
dosage form that provides 600 mg or less per dosage unit.


