
"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Court Rules Act

Court of Appeal Rules
B.C. Reg. 297/2001

Court Rules Act




Fees Applicable to the Court of Appeal



Item

Description


Fee

($)



1

For filing a notice of appeal or a notice of an application
for leave to appeal

200


2

For filing an application to be heard by a Justice of the
Court of Appeal excluding an application for leave to appeal

80


3

For filing an application to be heard by 3 or more justices if
the application is not returnable to the hearing of the appeal

80


4

For filing a certificate of readiness

200


5

For each half day spent in whole or in part on the hearing of
an appeal, excluding the first half day, unless the hearing is
for judgment only, payable by the party who files the
certificate of readiness, unless the court orders payment by
another party

250


6

For filing any appointment for a hearing before a registrar

80


7

For taking or swearing an affidavit for use in the court
unless

40




(a)

the deponent swears the affidavit in the course of his or her
duties as a peace officer or as an agent or officer of the
Province,






(b)

the affidavit is sworn for the purpose of enforcing a
maintenance or support order, or






(c)

provision is made elsewhere for a fee for that service




8

For a search of a record, other than

8




(a)

an electronic search conducted from outside the registry, or






(b)

a search of a record of a proceeding by







(i)
a party to that proceeding,






(ii)
a party's solicitor, or






(iii)

an official reporter who, or a representative of a
transcription firm that, is retained by a party to produce a
transcript of the proceeding




9

For returning by mail, fax or electronic mail the results of a
search of a record

10


10

For accessing from outside the registry, including, without
limitation, viewing, printing or downloading, any record that
is found by or created in response to an electronic search or
request, including, without limitation, an index of cases
produced in response to a search query

6


11

For accessing any document referred to in Item 10 and
purchasing that document

10


12

For copies, per page

1


13
For
40




(a)

a certified copy of a document of record






(b)

issuing a certificate of judgment






(c)

issuing a certificate of pending litigation or other
certificate not otherwise provided for




14

For returning by mail or by fax a confirmation of filing or
rejection of a document submitted by fax to a registry

10

