
"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Employment and Assistance for Persons with Disabilities Act


Employment and Assistance for Persons with Disabilities Regulation

B.C. Reg. 265/2002



Item

Column 1

Family unit composition


Column 2

Age or status of applicant or recipient


Column 3


Amount of base support

($)



Column 4


Amount of

transportation support

($)




1

Sole applicant / recipient and no dependent children


Applicant / recipient is a person with disabilities

706.42
52.00


2

Sole applicant / recipient and one or more dependent children


Applicant / recipient is a person with disabilities

847.08
52.00


3

Two applicants / recipients and no dependent children


One applicant / recipient is a person with disabilities, the
other is not a person with disabilities and is under 65 years
of age

875.56
52.00


4

Two applicants / recipients and no dependent children


Both applicants / recipients are persons with disabilities

1 299.06
104.00


5

Two applicants / recipients and no dependent children


One applicant / recipient is a person with disabilities, the
other is not a person with disabilities and is 65 or more
years of age

1 124.06
52.00


6

Two applicants / recipients and one or more dependent children


One applicant / recipient is a person with disabilities, the
other is not a person with disabilities and is under 65 years
of age

969.56
52.00


7

Two applicants / recipients and one or more dependent children


Both applicants / recipients are persons with disabilities

1 393.06
104.00


8

Two applicants / recipients and one or more dependent children


One applicant / recipient is a person with disabilities, the
other is not a person with disabilities and is 65 or more
years of age

1 218.06
52.00


9

Sole applicant / recipient and one or more dependent children


Applicant / recipient is a person with disabilities and a
warrant has been issued for the applicant / recipient

747.08
52.00


10

Two applicants / recipients and no dependent children


One applicant / recipient is a person with disabilities, and
the other is under 65 years of age, and a warrant has been
issued for one

706.42
52.00


11

Two applicants / recipients and no dependent children


One applicant / recipient is a person with disabilities, and
the other is 65 or more years of age and a warrant has been
issued for that applicant / recipient

706.42
52.00


12

Two applicants / recipients and no dependent children


One applicant / recipient is a person with disabilities and a
warrant has been issued for that applicant / recipient, and
the other is 65 or more years of age

706.42
52.00


13

Two applicants / recipients and no dependent children


Both applicants / recipients are persons with disabilities and
a warrant has been issued for one

881.42
104.00


14

Two applicants / recipients and one or more dependent children


One applicant / recipient is a person with disabilities, and
the other is under 65 years of age and a warrant has been
issued for that applicant / recipient

869.56
52.00


15

Two applicants / recipients and one or more dependent children


One applicant / recipient is a person with disabilities and a
warrant has been issued for that applicant / recipient, and
the other is under 65 years of age

869.56
52.00


16

Two applicants / recipients and one or more dependent children


One applicant / recipient is a person with disabilities and
the other is under 65 years of age, and a warrant has been
issued for both

819.56
52.00


17

Two applicants / recipients and one or more dependent children


One applicant / recipient is a person with disabilities, and
the other is 65 or more years of age and a warrant has been
issued for that applicant / recipient

1 118.06
52.00


18

Two applicants / recipients and one or more dependent children


One applicant / recipient is a person with disabilities and a
warrant has been issued for that applicant / recipient, and
the other is 65 or more years of age

1 118.06
52.00


19

Two applicants / recipients and one or more dependent children


One applicant / recipient is a person with disabilities and
the other is 65 or more years of age, and a warrant has been
issued for both

1 068.06
52.00


20

Two applicants / recipients and one or more dependent children


Both applicants / recipients are persons with disabilities and
a warrant has been issued for one

1 293.06
104.00


21

Two applicants / recipients and one or more dependent children


Both applicants / recipients are persons with disabilities and
a warrant has been issued for both

1 243.06
104.00

