
"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Securities Act


National Instrument 41-101 General Prospectus Requirements

B.C. Reg. 59/2008






YES




NO






A.




JUDGMENT, GARNISHMENT AND INJUNCTIONS

Has a court in any jurisdiction or in any foreign
jurisdiction:







(i) rendered a judgment, ordered garnishment or issued an
injunction or similar ban (whether by consent or otherwise)
against you in a claim based in whole or in part on fraud,
theft, deceit, misrepresentation, conspiracy, breach of trust,
breach of fiduciary duty, insider trading, unregistered
trading, illegal distributions, failure to disclose material
facts or changes or allegations of similar conduct?






(ii) rendered a judgment, ordered garnishment or issued an
injunction or similar ban (whether by consent or otherwise)
against an issuer, for which you are currently or have ever
been a director, officer, promoter, insider or control person,
in a claim based in whole or in part on fraud, theft, deceit,
misrepresentation, conspiracy, breach of trust, breach of
fiduciary duty, insider trading, unregistered trading, illegal
distributions, failure to disclose material facts or changes
or allegations of similar conduct?







B.




CURRENT CLAIMS







(i) Are you now subject, in any jurisdiction or in any foreign
jurisdiction, of a claim that is based in whole or in part on
actual or alleged fraud, theft, deceit, misrepresentation,
conspiracy, breach of trust, breach of fiduciary duty, insider
trading, unregistered trading, illegal distributions, failure
to disclose material facts or changes or allegations of
similar conduct?






(ii) To the best of your knowledge, are you currently or have
you ever been a director, officer, promoter, insider or
control person of an issuer now subject, in any jurisdiction
or in any foreign jurisdiction, of a claim that is based in
whole or in part on actual or alleged fraud, theft, deceit,
misrepresentation, conspiracy, breach of trust, breach of
fiduciary duty, insider trading, unregistered trading, illegal
distributions, failure to disclose material facts or changes
or allegations of similar conduct?







C.




SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT







(i) Have you ever entered into a settlement agreement, in any
jurisdiction or in any foreign jurisdiction, in a civil action
that involved actual or alleged fraud, theft, deceit,
misrepresentation, conspiracy, breach of trust, breach of
fiduciary duty, insider trading, unregistered trading, illegal
distributions, failure to disclose material facts or changes
or allegations of similar conduct?






(ii) To the best of your knowledge, are you currently or have
you ever been a director, officer, promoter, insider or
control person of an issuer that has entered into a settlement
agreement, in any jurisdiction or in any foreign jurisdiction,
in a civil action that involved actual or alleged fraud,
theft, deceit, misrepresentation, conspiracy, breach of trust,
breach of fiduciary duty, insider trading, unregistered
trading, illegal distributions, failure to disclose material
facts or changes or allegations of similar conduct?




