
"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Energy Efficiency Act


Energy Efficiency Standards Regulation

B.C. Reg. 389/93

Energy Efficiency Act




Item


Column 1


Column 2


Column 3


Column 4





1

Household electric ranges (other than microwave cooking
appliances, tungsten halogen heating elements and portable
appliances designed for an electrical supply of 120 volts)
that are


CAN/CSA-C358-M89, Energy Consumption Test Methods for
Household Electric Ranges


Ranges:

E = 0.93 V + 14.3


Cook tops, conventional, solid, smooth:

E = 34


Cook tops, modular type:

E = 43


Wall-mounted ovens:

E = 38


May 1, 1991



May 1, 1991




May 1, 1991



Jan. 1, 1994



(a)

free-standing ranges equipped with surface elements and one or
more ovens,



(b)

built-in combinations of surface elements and one or more
ovens,



(c)

wall-mounted ovens with one or more ovens, or



(d)

counter-mounted surface element assemblies.



2

Household electric automatic clothes washers that are
top-loaded, front-loaded standard and compact clothes washers
(other than wringer washers or twin tub washer and spinners).


CAN/CSA-C360-M89, Test Method for Measuring Energy Consumption
and Capacity of Automatic Household Clothes Washers


E = 1.5 V + 30.5

May 1, 1991



CAN/CSA-C360-92, Test Method for Measuring Energy Consumption
and Capacity of Automatic Household Clothes Washers

May 14, 1995


3

Standard and compact electrically operated and heated
household tumble-type clothes dryers.


CAN/CSA-C361-M89, Test Method for Measuring Energy Consumption
and Drum Volume of Electrically Heated Household Tumble-Type
Clothes Dryers


E ≤ 0.3 V + 59

May 1, 1991



CAN/CSA-C361-92, Test Method for Measuring Energy Consumption
and Drum Volume of Electrically Heated Household Tumble-Type
Clothes Dryers

May 14, 1995


4

Household electrically operated automatic dishwashers that are
not commercial, industrial or institutional machines.


CAN/CSA-C373-M89, Energy Consumption Test Methods for
Household Dishwashers


E ≤ 1.57V + 55.1

May 1, 1991



CAN/CSA-C373-92, Energy Consumption Test Methods for Household
Dishwashers

Jan. 1, 1995


5

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 478/94, s. 4 (a).]



6

Electric storage-type water heaters, as described below:


CAN/CSA-C191-04, Performance of Electric Storage Tank Water
Heaters for Domestic Hot Water Service


Sept. 1, 2010




(a) those having a top inlet and a rated volume of








(i) 50 to 270 litres;

(i)

Standby loss (in watts)

≤ 25 + (0.20 x V)







(ii) > 270 litres and ≤ 454 litres;


(ii)

Standby loss (in watts)

≤ (0.472 x V) – 48.5






(b) those having a bottom inlet and a rated volume of



Sept. 1, 2010




(i) 50 to 270 litres;

(i)

Standby loss (in watts)

≤ 40 + (0.20 x V)







(ii) > 270 litres and ≤ 454 litres


(ii)

Standby loss (in watts)

≤ 0.472 x V) – 33.5




7

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 475/95, s. 2 (b).]



8
(1)

Subject to subsections (3) to (5) of this item, gas furnaces,
other than replacement furnaces in pre-existing residential
dwellings.


CSA P.2-07 Testing Method for Measuring Annual Fuel
Utilization Efficiencies of Residential Furnaces and Boilers


AFUE ≥ 90%

Jan. 1, 2008


(2)

Subject to subsections (3) to (5) of this item, gas furnaces
for replacement in pre-existing residential dwellings.


CSA P.2-07 Testing Method for Measuring Annual Fuel
Utilization Efficiencies of Residential Furnaces and Boilers


AFUE ≥ 90%

Dec. 31, 2009


(3)

Gas furnaces, other than those with an integrated cooling
component, that


CSA P.2-07 Testing Method for Measuring Annual Fuel
Utilization Efficiencies of Residential Furnaces and Boilers


AFUE ≥ 90%

Dec. 31, 2009


(a)

are out-door or through-the-wall gas furnaces, and



(b)

use single-phase electric current.



(4)

Gas furnaces with an integrated cooling component that


CSA P.2-07 Testing Method for Measuring Annual Fuel
Utilization Efficiencies of Residential Furnaces and Boilers


AFUE ≥ 78%

Dec. 31, 2009


(a)

are out-door gas furnaces, and



(b)

use single-phase electric current.



(5)

Gas furnaces with an integrated cooling component that


CSA P.2-07 Testing Method for Measuring Annual Fuel
Utilization Efficiencies of Residential Furnaces and Boilers


AFUE ≥ 78%

Dec. 31, 2009


(a)

are through-the-wall gas furnaces, and



(b)

use single-phase electric current.


AFUE ≥ 90%

Dec. 31, 2012


9

Room air conditioners, other than packaged terminal air
conditioners, not exceeding 10.55 kilowatts (36 000 BTU/h)
heating or cooling capacity.


CAN/CSA-C368.1-M90, Performance Standard for Room
Air-Conditioners


Col. 2 of Table 1 of CAN/CSA-C368.1-M90

Sept. 1, 1991



CAN/CSA-C368.1-M90, Performance Standard for Room
Air-Conditioners


Col. 3 of Table 1 of CAN/CSA-C368.1-M90

Jan. 1, 1994


10

Central air conditioners and heat pumps that are factory made,
air-source, air-sink, split system, unitary devices rated
below 19 kilowatts (65 000 BTU/h) heating or cooling capacity.


CAN/CSA-C273.3-M91, Performance Standard for Split-System
Central Air-Conditioners and Heat Pumps


Col. 2 of Table 1 of CAN/CSA-C273.3-M91

Jan. 1, 1992



CAN/CSA-C273.3-M91, Performance Standard for Split-System
Central Air-Conditioners and Heat Pumps


Col. 3 of Table 1 of CAN/CSA-C273.3-M91

Jan. 1, 1995



Three-phase systems that are factory made and rated at
capacity up to and including 19 kW.


CAN/CSA-C273.3-M91, Performance Standard for Split-System
Central Air-Conditioners and Heat Pumps


Col. 4 of Table 1 of CAN/CSA-C273.3-M91

June 1, 1995


11

Gas Ranges.

No standing pilot

May 1, 1991


12

Oil fired water heaters, with input rating not exceeding 30.5
kilowatts (0.75 U.S. gallons per hour), and storage capacity
of 190 litres or less.


CAN/CSA-B211-M90, Seasonal Energy Utilization Efficiencies of
Oil-Fired Water Heaters


June 1, 1991


13
(1)

A general purpose electric motor with all the following
characteristics:


CAN/CSA C390-98, Energy Efficiency Test Methods for
Three-Phase Induction Motors

All motors must be tested in a horizontal configuration


Nominal full load efficiency that is not less than that set
out in Schedule 5

Jan. 1, 2011



(a)

a rated size of ≥ 1 HP and ≤ 200 HP or an IEC design motor of
a size of ≥ 0.746 kW and ≤ 150 kW;




(b)
two, four or six poles;



(c)

a NEMA T frame or IEC frame designation of 90 or above;




(d)

a NEMA design A or B or IEC design N;




(e)

a standard shaft, R-shaft or S-shaft or an IEC equivalent.



(2)

A general purpose electric motor with any of the following
characteristics:


CAN/CSA C390-98, Energy Efficiency Test Methods for
Three-Phase Induction Motors

All motors must be tested in a horizontal configuration.


Nominal full load efficiency that is not less than that set
out in Schedule 4

Jan. 1, 2011



(a)

U frame or equivalent IEC dimensions;




(b)

NEMA design C or IEC design H;




(c)
close-coupled pump motor;



(d)
footless construction;



(e)

vertically-mounted solid shaft normal thrust motor;




(f)
8-pole construction;



(g)
fire pump motor;



(h)
integral gear assembly;



(i)

a NEMA design B motor of a size > 200 HP and ≤ 500 HP or an
IEC design N motor of a size >150 kW and ≤ 375 kW.



14

Refrigerators and Combination refrigerator-freezers with a
capacity of up to 1 100 litres and freezers with a capacity of
up to 850 litres, other than electrically operated
refrigerators employing an absorption refrigeration system.


CAN/CSA-C300-M91, Capacity Measurement and Energy Consumption
Test Methods for Refrigerators, Combination
Refrigerator-Freezers and Freezers


Col. 4 of Table 9.1 of CAN/CSA-C300-M91

Jan. 1, 1994


15

Fluorescent lamp ballasts for use in fluorescent luminaries
installed in industrial, commercial or residential locations.


CAN/CSA-C654-M91, Fluorescent Lamp Ballast Efficiency
Measurements


All ballasts must have a power factor of at least 0.9 except
that ballasts designed for 120 volt input and to operate F32T8
rapid-start fluorescent lamps that have a colour rendering
index greater than 75 must have a power factor of at least 0.5

Jan. 1, 2009


16

Ground or water source heat pumps that are factory built
unitary packages or split system matching assemblies rated at
a capacity below 40 kilowatts (135 000 BTU/h) and intended for
application in open and closed loop ground and ground-water
source systems.


CAN/CSA-C446-M90, Performance of Ground and Water Source Heat
Pumps


Clause 5.2

Apr. 1, 1993



CAN/CSA-C446-94, Performance of Ground and Water Source Heat
Pumps


Clause 5.1

June 1, 1995


17

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 475/95, s. 2 (f).]



18

Water source heat pumps that are factory built unitary
packages or split system matching assemblies that are intended
for installation in internal water loop systems, that do not
exceed 40 kilowatts (135 000 BTU/h) in cooling or heating
capacity.


CAN/CSA-C655-M91,

Performance Standard for Internal Water-Loop Heat Pumps


Apr. 1, 1993


19

Air conditioners and heat pumps that are air source, air sink,
single package, unitary devices intended for air conditioning
and heating applications that are rated at a capacity not
exceeding 19 kilowatts (65 000 BTU/h).


CAN/CSA-C656-M92, Performance Standard for Single Package
Central Air-Conditioners and Heat Pumps


Clause 5.2

Apr. 1, 1993



Three-phase systems that are factory made and rated at
capacity up to and including 19 kW.


CAN/CSA-C656-M92, Performance Standard for Single Package
Central Air-Conditioners and Heat Pumps


Clause 5.2

Jan. 1, 1996


20

Roadway lighting luminaries of Cobra-head type using 50 to 400
watt lamps and small or medium prismatic refractors.


CAN/CSA-C653-92, Performance Standard for Roadway Lighting
Luminaries


Col. 5 of Table 1 of CAN/CSA-C653-92


July 1, 1994





CAN/CSA-C653-92, Performance Standard for Roadway Lighting
Luminaries


Col. 6 of Table 1 of CAN/CSA-C653-92

Jan. 1, 1996



CAN/CSA-C653-94, Performance Standard for Roadway Lighting
Luminaries


Col. 6 of Table 1 of CAN/CSA-C653-94

Jan. 1, 1996


21

Storage-type water heaters with a rated storage capacity of 76
to 380 litres and an input of 75 000 BTU/h or less, for use
with natural gas or propane.


CAN/CSA-P.3-04, Testing Method for Measuring Energy
Consumption and Determining Efficiencies of Gas-Fired Storage
Water Heaters


Energy Factor:

≥ 0.70 – (0.0005 x V)

Sept. 1, 2010


22

Commercial and industrial unitary air conditioners, heat pumps
and condensing units intended for air conditioning and space
heating applications that are rated at a capacity above 19
kilowatts (65 000 BTU/h) and below 73 kilowatts (250 000
BTU/h).


CAN/CSA-C746-93, Performance Standard for Rating Large
Air-Conditioners and Heat Pumps


Apr. 1, 1994


23

Absorption or vapour-compression refrigeration chillers
intended for application in air-conditioning systems that are
factory-built and equipped with centrifugal, rotary screw or
positive displacement compressors with a cooling capacity of
not more than 5 600 kilowatts (20 000 000 BTU/h).


CSA Standard C743-93, Performance Standard for Rating Packaged
Water Chillers


Col. 3 and Col. 5 of Table 10 of C743-93

Aug. 1, 1994



CSA Standard C743-93, Performance Standard for Rating Packaged
Water Chillers


Col. 4 and Col. 6 of Table 10 of C743-93

Jan. 1, 1998


24

Oil-fired warm-air furnaces, other than furnaces for mobile
homes and recreation vehicles, having an input of up to and
not more than 66 kilowatts (225 000 BTU/h).


CSA Standard B212-93, Seasonal Energy Utilization Efficiencies
of Oil-Fired Furnaces and Boilers


Sept. 1 1994


25

Oil-fired central heating boilers intended for low pressure
steam or hot water systems having an input of up to and not
more than 88 kilowatts (300 000 BTU/h).


CSA Standard B212-93, Seasonal Energy Utilization Efficiencies
of Oil-Fired Furnaces and Boilers


May 1, 1996


26

Self-contained gas burning central heating boilers that are
intended for low pressure steam or hot water systems having an
input of up to and not more than 88 kilowatts (300 000 BTU/h).



When measured in accordance with CGA P.2-1991, Hot water
systems: AFUE = 80%

May 1, 1996



Low pressure steam systems:

AFUE = 75%

May 1, 1996


27

Dehumidifiers that are factory made, self-contained,
electrically operated and mechanically refrigerated with daily
water removal capacity of up to 30 litres.


CAN/CSA-C749-94, Performance of Dehumidifiers


Jan. 1, 1996


28

Ice storage bins and self-contained or split system automatic
ice makers that are factory made and use air or water-cooled
condensers having daily capacity between 23 and 1 000
kilograms.


CAN/CSA-C742-94, Performance of Automatic Ice Makers and Ice
Storage Bins


Sept. 1, 1995


29

Packaged terminal air conditioners and heat pumps that are
factory made and intended for use in residential, commercial
and industrial heating and cooling systems.


CAN/CSA-C744-93, Standard for Packaged Terminal Air
Conditioners and Heat Pumps


Jan. 1, 1996


30

Distribution transformers rated from 25 to 3 000 kV.A, power
transformers rated from 501 to 10 000 kV.A and dry-type
transformers rated from 30 to 7 500 kV.A for three-phase and
25 to 333 kV.A for single-phase (up to 1.2 kV class) as
described in CSA Standards CAN/CSA-C2, CAN/CSA-C9,
CAN/CSA-C22.2, CAN/CSA-C9,CAN/CSA-C22.2 No. 47, CAN/CSA-C88,
CAN/CSA-C227.3, C227.4 and C301.1.


CAN/CSA-C802-94, Maximum Losses for Distribution, Power, and
Dry-Type Transformers


Jan. 1, 1998


31

Ground or water source heat pumps that are factory made
unitary packages or split system assemblies rated at capacity
up to and including 21 kW intended for application in
direct-expansion (DX) ground or water source systems.


CAN/CSA-C748-M94, Performance of Direct-Expansion (DX)
Ground-Source Heat Pumps


Clause 5.1

Jan. 1, 1995


32

Compact fluorescent (CF) ballasted adapters and self-ballasted
CF lamps that incorporate a screwbase, including both dimmable
and nondimmable types.


CAN/CSA-C861-95, Performance of Compact Fluorescent Lamps and
Ballasted Adapters


Clause 6.6

Apr. 1, 1996


33

Incandescent reflector lamps, from 40 watts up to and
including 205 watts, rated 110 to 130 volts, with a medium or
medium skirted base and a diameter of 70 mm or larger, except
coloured lamps, heat lamps, lamps used in mines, aircraft, air
fields, automotive or marine applications, and

lamps with an ER or AR bulb shape.


CAN/CSA-C862-95, Performance Standard for Incandescent
Reflector Lamps


Clause 6.2

Apr. 1, 1996


34

Dusk-to-dawn area luminaries that are 120 volt, 60Hz
luminaries, complete with photocell controllers applicable to
provide automatic dusk-to-dawn area illumination.


CAN/CSA-C239-94, Standard for Dusk-to-Dawn Luminaries


Jan. 1, 1996


35

Fluorescent lamps


CAN/CSA-C819-96, Performance of General Service Fluorescent
Lamps


May 15, 1996


36

Refrigerated display cabinets


CSA Standard C657, Energy Performance Standard for Commercial
Refrigerated Display Cabinets and Merchandisers


Jan. 1, 1999


37
(1)

Manufactured fenestration products, that separate heated space
from non-heated space, as set out in the following list,
except those products described in subsection (2):


Any of the following:

(a) CSA A440.2-04, Energy Performance of Windows and Other
Fenestration Systems;

(b) CAN/CSA A440.2-09, Fenestration Energy Performance;

(c) NFRC 100- (2004 or 2010) Procedure for Determining
Fenestration Product U-Factors.





(a)

non-metal, non-wood framed windows and sliding glass doors;


Maximum U-value = 2.0 x W/(m
2
x K)

Mar. 1, 2009


(b)

wood framed windows and sliding glass doors;


Maximum U-value = 2.0 x W/(m
2
x K)

Jan. 1, 2011


(c)

skylights, whether framed with metal, wood or other materials;


Maximum U-value = 3.10 x W/(m
2
x K)

Mar. 1, 2009


(d)

metal framed windows, sliding glass doors, curtain walls,
window walls or storefront windows, with or without thermal
break.


Maximum U-value = 2.57 x W/(m
2
x K)

Maximum U-value = 2.0 x W/(m
2
x K)


Jun. 1, 2009

Jan. 1, 2011



(e)

hinged or bi-folding doors which are fully glazed into an
aluminum (extruded), fibreglass (pultruded) or steel (roll
formed) sash construction.


Maximum U-value = 2.0 x W/(m
2
x K)

Jan. 1, 2012


(2)

The energy efficiency standards set out in Column 3 do not
apply to the following manufactured fenestration products:






(a)

windows and sliding glass doors in residential buildings of 5
storeys or more;



(b)

windows and sliding glass doors in non-residential buildings
with more than 600 m
2
floor space;



(c)

decorative windows that have stained glass panels, iron
inserts or blinds, contained in a sealed insulating glass
unit;



(d)

windows installed in designated heritage buildings;



(e)

glazing replacements in an existing sash or frame if the
U-value of the replacement glazing is equal to or less than
the U-value of the original glazing;



(f)

products installed in buildings that are compliant with ASHRAE
90.1 (2004, 2007 or 2010) Energy Standard for Buildings Except
Low-Rise Residential Buildings.



38

Thermostats used for line-voltage (120-240V) switching of a
controlled resistive heating load including wall-mounted,
built-in and two component thermostats.


CSA C828-06 Performance Requirements for Thermostats Used with
Individual Room Electric Space Heating Devices


Maximum Differential = 0.5° C

Maximum droop = 2° C

Jan 1, 2007


39

Gas fireplaces including inserts and free-standing stoves, for
use with propane and natural gas.


CAN/CSA P.4.1-02 Testing Method for Measuring Annual Fireplace
Efficiency


Jan 1, 2007


40

Natural gas and propane fired

boilers having input rating greater

than 88 kilowatts

(300 000 BTU/h).


ANSI Z21.13-2004/CSA 4.9-2004 Gas-Fired Low Pressure Steam and
Hot Water Boilers

or

GAMA BTS-2000 Method to Determine Efficiency of Commercial
Space Heating Boilers


Combustion efficiency = 80%

Jan 1, 2007


41

Glazing for installation in manufactured door slabs, sidelites
and transoms, that separate heated space from non-heated
space, except



The glazing must be multiple glazed with at least one low-E
coating between glazing, a 90% argon gas fill level with a
compatible edge sealant system and have spacer bars other than
non-thermally broken aluminium box spacer bars

Jun. 1, 2009


(a)

glazing installed in pre-hung door assemblies with a maximum
U-value of 2.0 W/(m
2
x K), tested with NFRC 100-2004 Procedure for Determining
Fenestration Product U-Factors,



(b)

decorative glazing that have stained glass panels, iron
inserts or blinds, contained in a sealed insulating glass
unit,



(c)

products installed in designated heritage buildings, and



(d)

products installed in buildings that are compliant with ASHRAE
90.1 (2004, 2007 or 2010) Energy Standard for Buildings Except
Low-Rise Residential Buildings.



42

Door slabs that separate heated space from non-heated space,
except


ASTM C518 – 04, Standard Test Method for Steady-State Thermal
Transmission Properties by Means of the Heat Flow


The door panels must be insulated with products rated to a
thermal resistance

(RSI) ≥ 0.875 (m
2
xK)/W

Jun. 1, 2009


(a)

solid wood door slabs,



(b)

door slabs in pre-hung door assemblies with a maximum U-value
of 2.0 W/(m
2
x K), tested with NFRC 100-2004 Procedure for Determining
Fenestration Product U-factors,



(c)

door slabs installed in designated heritage buildings, and



(d)

door slabs installed in buildings that are compliant with
ASHRAE 90.1 (2004, 2007 or 2010) Energy Standard for Buildings
Except Low-Rise Residential Buildings.



43
(1)

Manufactured fenestration products, including sliding glass
doors and windows but excluding skylights, that separate
heated space from non-heated space in residential buildings of
5 storeys or more or non-residential buildings with more than
600 m
2
floor space, as set out in the following list, except those
products described in subsection (2):


Any of the following:

(a) CSA A440.2-04, Energy Performance of Windows and Other
Fenestration Systems;

(b) CAN/CSA A440.2-09, Fenestration Energy Performance;

(c) NFRC 100- (2004 or 2010) Procedure for Determining
Fenestration Product U-Factors.





(a)

metal framed windows, sliding glass doors, curtain walls,
window walls or storefront windows, with or without thermal
break;


Maximum U-value = 2.57 x W/(m
2
x K)

Jan. 1, 2011


(b)

windows, sliding glass doors, curtain walls, window walls and
store front windows with framing materials other than metal,
with or without metal reinforcing or cladding.


Maximum U-value = 2.0 x W/(m
2
x K)

Jan. 1, 2011


(2)

The energy efficiency standards set out in Column 3 do not
apply to the following:






(a)

products installed in buildings that are compliant with ASHRAE
90.1 (2004, 2007 or 2010) Energy Standard for Building Except
Low-Rise Residential Buildings;



(b)

glazing replacements in an existing sash or frame if the
U-value of the replacement glazing is equal to or less than
the U-value of the original glazing;



(c)

products installed in designated heritage buildings.



44
(1)

General service lamps, excluding modified spectrum lamps,
other than those with a luminous flux of ≤ 249 lumens and ≥ 2
601 lumens, as follows:


For lamp lumen output and wattage:

IESNA LM45 (IES standard IES-LM-45-00, IESNA Approved Method
for Electrical and Photometric

Measurements of General Service Incandescent Filament Lamps)


Lamp efficacy in lumens per watt

≥ 4.0357 x ln (lumens) – 7.1345





(a)

Lamps with luminous flux of 250 to 1 049 lumens;


For lamp life:

IESNA LM49 (IES standard IES-LM-49-01, IESNA Approved Method
for Life Testing of General Lighting Incandescent Filament
Lamps)


Life ≥ 1 000 hours

Dec. 1, 2014



(b)

Lamps with luminous flux of 1 050 to 2 600 lumens


For lamp colour-rendering index (CRI), CIE 13.3 (CIE
Publication No. 13-3, Method of Measuring and Specifying
Colour Rendering Properties of Light Source, 1995)


Colour-rendering index ≥ 80

Jan. 1, 2011


(2)

General service lamps that are modified spectrum lamps or with
a luminous flux ≥ 1 050 lumens and ≤ 2 600 lumens.


For luminous flux and wattage and lamp life, IES LM45 and IES
LM49 applicable to the device, tested at 120 volts regardless
of its nominal voltage.

For lamp colour-rendering index (CRI), CIE 13.3 (CIE
Publication No. 13-3, Method of Measuring and Specifying
Colour Rendering Properties of Light Source, 1995)


Lamp efficacy ≥ 75% of the efficacy of the reference standard
spectrum lamp

Life ≥ 1 000 hours

Jan. 1, 2011


(3)

General service lamps that are modified spectrum lamps or with
a luminous flux ≥ 250 lumens and ≤ 1 049 lumens.



Colour-rendering index ≥ 80

Dec. 1, 2014


45

Televisions


CAN/CSA C62301-07 Household Electrical Appliances –
Measurement of Standby Power, tested at 115 volts, regardless
of the nominal voltage of the energy device


Must be capable of entering one of the following modes, or
more if applicable:

Jan. 1, 2013


(a)

a standby mode with a power consumption of ≤ 1 W, with
information or status display active;



(b)

a standby mode with a power consumption of ≤ 0.5 W, with
information or status display inactive;



(c)

a standby mode with a power consumption of ≤ 0.5 W, without
information or status display;



(d)

an off mode with a power consumption of ≤ 0.5 W




CSA-C382-11

Energy Performance of Televisions and Displays, tested at 115
volts, regardless of the nominal voltage of the energy device


On mode power consumption of ≤ 0.019 W/cm
2
x screen area (cm
2
) + 25 W (0.120 W/in
2
x screen area (in
2
) + 25 W)

The peak luminance of the product in home mode, or in the
default as-shipped picture mode, must not be less than 65% of
the peak luminance of the product in retail mode, or the
brightest selectable preset picture mode [whichever is
brighter]

Jan. 1, 2012


46

Video products


CAN/CSA C62301-07 Household Electrical Appliances —
Measurement of Standby Power, tested at 115 volts, regardless
of the nominal voltage of the energy device


Must be capable of entering one of the following modes, or
more if applicable:

Jan. 1, 2013


(a)

a standby mode with a power consumption of ≤ 1 W, with
information or status display active;



(b)

a standby mode with a power consumption of ≤ 0.5 W, with
information or status display inactive;



(c)

a standby mode with a power consumption of ≤ 0.5 W, without
information or status display;



(d)

an off mode with a power consumption of ≤ 0.5 W.



47

Compact audio products


CAN/CSA C62301-07 Household Electrical Appliances —
Measurement of Standby Power, tested at 115 volts, regardless
of the nominal voltage of the energy device


Must be capable of entering one of the following modes, or
more if applicable:

Jan. 1, 2013


(a)

a standby mode with a power consumption of ≤ 1 W, with
information or status display active;



(b)

a standby mode with a power consumption of ≤ 0.5 W, with
information or status display inactive;



(c)

a standby mode with a power consumption of ≤ 0.5 W, without
information or status display;



(d)

an off mode with a power consumption of ≤ 0.5 W.


