
"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Court Rules Act

Supreme Court Family Rules
B.C. Reg. 169/2009






LAWYER'S CERTIFICATE (
Divorce Act
(Canada), s. 9)






I, ................................, lawyer for
................[
name of party
]................, certify that I have complied with
section 9 of the
Divorce Act
(Canada), which says:




9


(1) It is the duty of every barrister, solicitor,
lawyer or advocate who undertakes to act on behalf of
a spouse in a divorce proceeding






(a) to draw to the attention of the spouse the
provisions of this Act that have as their object the
reconciliation of spouses, and






(b) to discuss with the spouse the possibility of the
reconciliation of the spouses and to inform the spouse
of the marriage counselling or guidance facilities
known to him or her that might be able to assist the
spouses to achieve a reconciliation, unless the
circumstances of the case are of such a nature that it
would clearly not be appropriate to do so.





(2) It is the duty of every barrister, solicitor,
lawyer or advocate who undertakes to act on behalf of
a spouse in a divorce proceeding to discuss with the
spouse the advisability of negotiating the matters
that may be the subject of a support order or a
custody order and to inform the spouse of the
mediation facilities known to him or her that might be
able to assist the spouses in negotiating those
matters.






