







B.C. Reg. 145/86

Rules of Court of Appeal Justices


Deposited July 2, 1986






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.


Criminal Code (Canada)



British Columbia Court of Appeal

Criminal Appeal Rules, 1986


[includes amendments up to B.C. Reg. 176/91]





Title




1


These rules may be cited as the British Columbia Court of Appeal
Criminal Appeal Rules, 1986.

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/91, s. 2.]





Interpretation




1.1

(1)


In these rules


"appeal"
includes an application for leave to appeal;


"appellant"
includes an applicant for leave to appeal;


"court"
means the Court of Appeal;


"defendant"
means the person who has been convicted, sentenced or had some other
order, finding or determination made against him;


"file"
means to file with the registrar in a registry of the court;


"justice"
means a justice of appeal;



"notice of appeal"

includes a notice of application for leave to appeal;



"order under appeal"

means the conviction, acquittal, sentence, finding, determination or
other order in respect of which the appeal is brought;


"registrar"
includes




(a)

an assistant, associate or deputy registrar of the court, and




(b)

any person appointed by the chief justice to temporarily carry out the
duties of the registrar;


"respondent"
means




(a)

the prosecutor, where the appellant is the defendant, and




(b)

the defendant, where the appellant is the prosecutor.




(2)

The definitions in sections 2 and 673 of the

Criminal Code

apply to these rules.

[am. B.C. Reg. 176/91, s. 3.]





Application of court rules and practice directives




2

(1)


The Court of Appeal Rules (Civil), B.C. Reg. 303/82, as amended from
time to time, apply to appeals on matters that are not expressly
provided for in these rules.




(2)

The court may issue practice directives on any matter respecting
appeals.




(3)

On an appeal, the court or a justice may give all directions
respecting the conduct of the appeal that it or he considers
necessary.




(4)

The court and a justice have, in relation to an appeal, all of the
powers that they have under the

Court of Appeal Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 77, and the rules made under that Act, with
any necessary changes as may be applicable.




Part 1 — Commencement of Appeals





Appeal by the defendant




3

(1)


A person who wishes to appeal against conviction, sentence, or
conviction and sentence, shall, within 30 days after the imposition of
the sentence, commence the appeal by filing an original and 4 copies
of




(a)

Form 1 or 1A, where the defendant is represented by counsel, or




(b)

Form 2, where the defendant is not so represented.




(2)

Where more than 30 days have lapsed since the imposition of the
sentence, a defendant may apply for an extension of the time to appeal
by filing an original and one copy of Form 7.




(3)

The registrar shall forward a copy of the filed Form 1, 1A, 2 or
7 to the prosecutor.

[am. B.C. Reg. 176/91, s. 4.]





Appeal by the prosecutor




4

(1)


Where the prosecutor wishes to appeal, he shall, within 30 days after
the pronouncement of the order under appeal,




(a)

file 5 copies of the notice of appeal in Form 3, and




(b)

serve the respondent or proposed respondent with the notice, either
before or after it is filed.




(2)

Where the prosecutor is unable to personally serve the notice of
appeal on the respondent, the court or a justice may authorize the
prosecutor to serve the respondent in the manner that the court or a
justice directs.




(3)

On compliance by the prosecutor with an order under subrule (2),
the respondent shall be deemed to be served with the notice of appeal.






Notice of Appeal




5

(1)


The notice of appeal shall be in Form 1, 1A, 2 or 3, as the case may
be.




(2)

The appellant shall state his address for service on the notice of
appeal and any document respecting the appeal that is delivered to
that address shall be deemed to have been served on the appellant.




(3)

Where an appellant, who is not represented by counsel, is in custody
at the time he files notice of appeal, he shall state the name of the
institution in which he is in custody together with another address
for service other than that institution.




(4)

The registrar shall forward a copy of the notice of appeal to the
judge who made the order under appeal.




(5)

A notice of appeal may be amended at any time by consent or with leave
of the court or a justice.




(6)

A notice of appeal may be amended without leave




(a)

at any time up to 14 days before an appeal is set to be heard, where
factums are not required, or




(b)

at any time before the appellant files his factums in an appeal, where
factums are required.




(7)

Where the notice of appeal is amended, the appellant shall file and
serve the amended notice of appeal.

[am. B.C. Reg. 176/91, s. 5.]



Part 2 — Appeal Book and Transcript — Appeals Other than Sentence
Appeals





Application




6


Rule 9 of this Part does not apply to an appellant or respondent who
is not represented by counsel.






Filing of appeal book and transcript of evidence




7


Unless otherwise ordered by the court or a justice, the appellant
shall, within 60 days after filing the notice of appeal,




(a)

file 4 copies each of an appeal book and transcript or such additional
copies as may be required by the registrar, and




(b)

deliver one copy of the appeal book and transcript to the respondent.






Form and content of appeal book and transcript




8

(1)


The appeal book shall be bound separately in a volume having a blue
cover and shall be in Form 4 and comply with the requirements of that
form.




(2)

The transcript shall be bound separately in a volume having a red
cover and shall be in Form 5 and shall comply with the requirements of
that form.




(3)

The appeal book and transcript shall be printed




(a)

in 10 point type,




(b)

only on the left side of the page, and




(c)

on durable white paper having dimensions of 21.5 cm by 28 cm.




(4)

The arguments of counsel shall not be reproduced in the transcript
without good reason.




(5)

Where the number of pages exceeds 300, an appeal book or transcript
shall be bound into 2 or more volumes, numbered consecutively with
each volume containing not more than 200 pages.




(6)

Each volume of the appeal book or transcript shall show




(a)

what pages it contains, and




(b)

an index in accordance with page 2 of Forms 4 and 5.




(7)

The appeal book shall contain




(a)

an index,




(b)

a copy of the information or indictment,




(c)

a copy of all exhibits that are capable of reproduction,




(d)

a list of all exhibits and affidavits that have been excluded under
Rule 9,




(e)

a copy of the order under appeal,




(f)

a copy of the notice of appeal, and




(g)

where there will be no transcript prepared for the appeal, the
statement referred to in paragraph (8) (c).




(8)

The transcript shall contain




(a)

an index and, where there is more than one volume, the complete index
shall be included in each volume,




(b)

all rulings of the trial judge, his reasons for judgment or charge to
the jury, as the case may be, and




(c)

a statement of the evidence that has been excluded under Rule 9.




(9)

The transcript shall not contain




(a)

proceedings on the challenge for cause of the array or of a juror,




(b)

the opening address of the judge,




(c)

the opening and closing addresses of counsel,




(d)

all proceedings in the absence of the jury except




(i)

rulings on the admissibility of evidence following a voir dire or
otherwise, or




(ii)

objections to the judge's charge, and




(e)

objections to the admissibility of evidence other than a statement
that an objection was made

unless



(f)

the grounds of appeal relate to a matter referred therein,




(g)

in respect of the items in paragraphs (a) to (e), the court or a
justice orders that one or more of those items be included, or




(h)

the appellant and respondent agree that one or more of the items be
included.




(10)

Unless the registrar directs, where the appellant and respondent agree
on a statement of facts that are relevant to the appeal, the appellant
may, instead of filing a transcript, include the agreed statement of
facts




(a)

in the appeal book, or




(b)

in a separately bound volume with a red cover


as the parties agree or the registrar directs.




(11)

The registrar may reject an appeal book or transcript that does not
comply with the rules or any order made under them and, on making a
rejection, he shall promptly advise the appellant and the respondent
of his rejection and the reasons for it.

[am. B.C. Reg. 176/91, s. 6.]





Negotiations on size of appeal book and transcript




9

(1)


The appellant and respondent shall attempt to reduce the bulk of the
appeal book and transcript by excluding from them material, including
evidence, that is unnecessary for a proper hearing of the appeal.




(2)

The appellant or respondent may suggest to the other party what
material ought to be excluded from the appeal book or transcript.




(3)

The appellant or respondent, on 2 days' notice, may take out an
appointment with the registrar to settle the appeal book or
transcript.




(4)

The registrar may give directions respecting what should be included
or deleted from the appeal book or transcript.




(5)

The appellant or respondent may appeal a direction of the registrar to
a justice and the justice may refer the question to the registrar of
the court appealed from or to a judge of that court.






Factums




10

(1)


Unless otherwise directed by the registrar, the appellant shall file 4
copies of his factum and deliver a copy of it to the respondent within
30 days of filing the appeal book and transcript.




(2)

Unless otherwise directed by the registrar, the respondent shall file
4 copies of his factum and deliver a copy of it to the appellant
within 30 days of receiving the appellant's factum.




(3)

Where the appellant wishes to reply to the respondent's factum, he
shall file his factum in reply within 7 days of receiving the
respondent's factum and promptly deliver a copy of it to the
respondent.




(4)

Factums shall comply with Form 6 and the requirements set out in that
form.




(5)

The registrar shall not accept a factum for filing that does not
substantially comply with Form 6.




(6)

Factums shall not




(a)

contain irrelevant material, or




(b)

reproduce any matter that is contained in the appeal book or
transcript, where reference to the material or matter will reasonably
suffice.




(7)

The index page of the appellant's factum shall, where counsel
estimates the hearing of the appeal will exceed one day, contain the
following endorsement:



"After consultation with counsel for the respondent, I consider that
the hearing of this appeal should take ............... . I consider
that the presentation of my argument will take ....................".




Part 3 — Sentence Appeals





Sentence appeals with counsel




11


In an appeal against sentence, the appellant shall file 4 copies of
the sentence appeal material as may be required by the registrar and
serve one copy of the material on the respondent.






Post sentence reports




12


The court may order preparation of a post sentence report relating to
a person in respect of whom an appeal against sentence has been
brought.




Part 4 — Other Pre-hearing Matters





Summary dismissal for want of prosecution or failure to comply with
rules




13

(1)


Where the appellant fails to




(a)

diligently pursue his appeal, or




(b)

comply with these rules,


the respondent may apply to the court or, on an appeal where leave is
required, to a justice, for an order that the appeal be dismissed.




(2)

On an application under subrule (1) or a reference under subrule (3),




(a)

the court may dismiss the appeal or make any other order it considers
just, or




(b)

where the appeal required leave and leave has not yet been granted,
the court or a justice may dismiss the appeal or make any other order
that is considered just.




(3)

Where the registrar considers that the appellant has failed to
diligently pursue the appeal or has failed to comply with these rules,
he may refer the matter to the court or a justice.




(4)

Where the registrar makes a reference under subrule (3),




(a)

he shall serve the appellant and respondent with 2 days' notice of the
hearing of the reference, and




(b)

the grounds in Rule 17 (3) (a) and (b) for not requiring service on an
unrepresented appellant apply.






Abandonment




14

(1)


An appellant may abandon an appeal by




(a)

signing and filing a notice in Form 11, or




(b)

informing the court in person or by counsel that he desires to abandon
it.




(2)

A signature in a notice under subrule (1) (a) shall be witnessed.






Pre-hearing conference




15

(1)


At any time after the notice of appeal has been filed, the court or a
justice may direct a pre-hearing conference.




(2)

Where a direction is made under subrule (1), the parties or their
counsel or solicitors shall attend before a justice at the time and
place directed to consider




(a)

the reduction in the size of the appeal book or transcript,




(b)

the simplification or isolation of issues on the appeal,




(c)

the fixing of the time for hearing of the appeal,




(d)

the conduct of the hearing of the appeal, and




(e)

any other matter that might expedite the appeal.




(3)

After a pre-hearing conference, the justice who held it may make a
direction on any matter referred to in subrule (2) (a)
to (e) and that direction shall govern the conduct of the appeal
unless the court or a justice otherwise orders.






Time limits




16


The court or a justice may extend or shorten the time within which the
giving of any notice or the doing of any act required by these rules
may be done, notwithstanding that the application for the extension or
the order granting it is made after the expiry of the time in respect
of which the application to extend is made.






Applications to the court or a justice




17

(1)


A party who wishes to make an application to the court or a justice
shall do so on 2 clear days' notice to the other party to the appeal,
unless the court or a justice otherwise orders.




(2)

The applicant shall file a copy of the notice of appeal with his
application together with the material upon which he relies, verified
by affidavit, unless the court or a justice otherwise orders, and he
shall serve all material, including the affidavits, on the other party
to the appeal.




(3)

Where an appellant is not represented by counsel, the court or a
justice may dispense with service of the material where




(a)

the appellant did not state any address for service on his notice of
appeal, or




(b)

the respondent establishes that the appellant's address for service
was fictitious.






Non-compliance with rules




18


A court or a justice may permit non-compliance with any rule subject
to terms and conditions that the court or a justice thinks fit.




Part 5 — Release from Custody





Procedure on release application




19

(1)


On an application for release under section 679 of the

Criminal Code

, the appellant shall file an application in Form 8 and the
material referred to in subrule (2) and serve a copy thereof on the
prosecutor.




(2)

The application shall be accompanied by an affidavit verifying the
facts on which the appellant relies in support of his application
including the following:




(a)

a statement of all places where he has resided for the 3 year period
preceding the date that he was sentenced;




(b)

the place where he intends to reside if he is released;




(c)

the name of his employer and the place of his employment where he was
employed before being placed in custody;




(d)

his employment prospects if released;




(e)

the names and addresses of his relatives or other persons who may
serve as prospective sureties;




(f)

a statement of any criminal convictions during the 5 years preceding
his conviction on the offence from which he is appealing, specifying
the offences and sentences imposed.




(3)

The appellant may accompany his application with any other material
that he considers will be relevant to the application.




(4)

Unless a justice otherwise orders, submissions on an application under
this section by an appellant who is not represented by counsel shall
be in writing.




(5)

Upon the appellant complying with an order for release,




(a)

the registrar or other person authorized by the registrar, in a case
where an undertaking is ordered, or




(b)

a justice of the peace who took the recognizance, in any other case,


shall issue a notice of release in Form 9 to the person having custody
of the appellant.




(6)

The release order, undertaking, recognizance and any money or valuable
security deposited under the recognizance shall be filed or deposited
with the registrar.

[am. B.C. Reg. 176/91, s. 7.]





Reviews under section 680




20

(1)


On an application for a direction under section 680 of the

Criminal Code

, the appellant shall




(a)

complete Form 10,




(b)

submit all material that was before the judge or justice when he made
the order that the appellant seeks to have reviewed, and




(c)

submit a concise memorandum stating why there should be a review.




(2)

The registrar shall deliver a copy of the memorandum submitted under
subrule (1) (c) to the prosecutor who may, within 5 days
after receiving it, submit a concise memorandum in response.




(3)

The chief justice shall, after considering the material before him,
inform the registrar of his decision.




(4)

Where a review is directed under section 680 of the

Criminal Code

, the registrar shall advise the applicant and the prosecutor of the
time and place where the review hearing will be heard.

[am. B.C. Reg. 176/91, ss. 8, 9.]





Repealed




21


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 176/91, s. 10.]






Repealed




22


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 176/91, s. 11.]




Form 1

[am. B.C. Reg. 176/91, s. 12.]

[Paragraph 3 (1) (a) and subrule 5 (1)]



NOTICE OF APPEAL OR APPLICATION

FOR LEAVE TO APPEAL




(Where notice is filed by a solicitor on behalf of the appellant)



Lower Court Registry Number: ..........................................


Lower Court Registry Location: .........................................


COURT OF APPEAL


REGINA

Respondent

vs.


................................................................

Appellant




PARTICULARS OF CONVICTION



1

Place of conviction
.....................................................................................................................



2

Name of
Judge............................................................................................................................



3

Offence(s) of which appellant
convicted.......................................................................................





...................................................................................................................................................



4

Section of
Criminal Code
or other Act under which appellant convicted
was...............................





........................................................... (State
here if appeal is under the
Young Offenders Act
.)



5

Plea at
trial...................................................................................................................................



6

Whether or not jury
trial..............................................................................................................



7

Length of
trial..............................................................................................................................



8

Sentence
imposed.......................................................................................................................





...................................................................................................................................................





...................................................................................................................................................



9

Date of
conviction........................................................................................................................



10

Date of
sentence..........................................................................................................................



11

If appellant in custody, place of incarceration
...............................................................................




TAKE NOTICE
that the appellant
(strike out inapplicable provisions)
:



(a)

appeals against his conviction upon grounds involving question of
law alone.



(b)

applies for leave to appeal his conviction upon grounds involving
a question  of fact alone or a question of mixed law and
fact, and if leave be granted hereby appeals against the
conviction.



(c)

applies for leave to appeal against sentence, and if leave be
granted hereby appeals against the sentence.




The grounds for appeal are
.................................................................................................................




...........................................................................................................................................................




...........................................................................................................................................................




...........................................................................................................................................................




...........................................................................................................................................................




...........................................................................................................................................................




...........................................................................................................................................................




...........................................................................................................................................................




...........................................................................................................................................................




(Use additional separate sheet if necessary)




The relief sought
is...............................................................................................................................




The appellant's address for service
is....................................................................................................




...........................................................................................................................................................




Dated this ......... day of .........................., 19.......




.........................................................




Solicitor on behalf of appellant




To the Registrar









Form 1A

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/91, s. 13.]




[Paragraph 3 (1) (a) and subrule 5 (1)]




NOTICE OF APPEAL OR APPLICATION




FOR LEAVE TO APPEAL




Summary Conviction Appeal





Criminal Code
Subsection 839 (1)






(Where notice is filed by a solicitor on behalf of the
appellant)





Lower Court Registry Number:
.........................................




Lower Court Registry Location:
........................................







COURT OF APPEAL




REGINA




Respondent




vs.




...........................................




Appellant




PARTICULARS OF DECISION ON APPEAL



1

Place of conviction
.......................................................................................................................





Place of appeal to Supreme
Court...................................................................................................



2

Name of Judge  — Trial (Provincial Court)
....................................................................................





— Appeal (Supreme
Court)...................................................................................



3

Offence(s) of which the appellant was convicted at trial and with
respect to which the appellant's appeal to the Supreme Court was
dismissed





......................................................................................................................................................





......................................................................................................................................................





......................................................................................................................................................



4

Section(s) of
Criminal Code
or other Act under which the appellant was convicted





.......................................................................................................................................................



5

Plea at trial
....................................................................................................................................



6

Length of trial
................................................................................................................................





Length of appeal proceedings in Supreme Court
.............................................................................



7

Sentence imposed — Trial
..............................................................................................................





Sentence on appeal (if different)
....................................................................................................



8

Date of conviction at trial
..............................................................................................................





Date of Supreme Court decision
....................................................................................................



9

Date of sentence
...........................................................................................................................



10

If appellant in custody, place of incarceration
.................................................................................




TAKE NOTICE
that the appellant applies for leave to appeal the decision
dismissing the summary conviction appeal on grounds involving a
question of law alone, and if leave be granted, hereby appeals
against the said decision.





The grounds of appeal
are.......................................................................................................................




...............................................................................................................................................................




...............................................................................................................................................................




...............................................................................................................................................................




...............................................................................................................................................................




...............................................................................................................................................................




...............................................................................................................................................................




...............................................................................................................................................................




...............................................................................................................................................................




(Use additional separate sheet if necessary)




The relief sought
is..................................................................................................................................




The appellant's address for service
is.......................................................................................................




Dated this ......... day of .........................., 19.......




......................................................




Solicitor on behalf of appellant




To the Registrar






Form 2

[am. B.C. Reg. 176/91, s. 14.]




[Paragraph 3 (1) (b) and subrule 5 (1)]




NOTICE OF APPEAL OR APPLICATION




FOR LEAVE TO APPEAL




(Where appellant not represented by a solicitor)




Lower Court Registry Number:
.........................................




Lower Court Registry Location:
........................................




COURT OF APPEAL




To the Registrar:





Name of appellant
...........................................................................................................................





Place of trial
....................................................................................................................................





Name of court

1

...............................................................................................................................





Name of judge
................................................................................................................................





Was this a jury trial
.........................................................................................................................





Offence(s) of which convicted

2

.......................................................................................................





.......................................................................................................................................................





Plea at trial
.....................................................................................................................................





Sentence imposed
..........................................................................................................................





.......................................................................................................................................................





Date of conviction
..........................................................................................................................





Date of imposition of sentence
........................................................................................................





Name and address of place at which appellant is in custody





or if not in custody, appellant's address
...........................................................................................





If in custody, address other than institution
......................................................................................




I, the above named appellant, hereby give you notice that I desire
to appeal to the Court of Appeal

against my

3

.......................................... on the grounds set out
on page 3 of this notice.




I desire to present my case and argument whether it be for leave
to appeal

4

or by way of appeal where

leave is not necessary

5

,






(a) in writing

6

.





(b) in person.



If a new trial is ordered and you have a right to trial by jury do
you wish trial by jury? ..................................




Dated this ..... day of .........................., 19...... .




(Signed

7

)
.................................................




Appellant





NOTES





1

(a)

If your appeal against conviction involves a question of law alone
you have a right of appeal.




(b)

If your appeal against conviction is upon any other ground than a
question of law, then you have no right of appeal unless leave to
appeal is first granted. Your notice of appeal includes

an application for leave to appeal where leave is necessary.




(c)

You have no right to appeal against sentence unless leave to
appeal is first granted by the Court of

Appeal or a justice. Your notice of appeal includes an application
for leave to appeal.



2

Further take notice that if you appeal from sentence the Court of
Appeal may increase

your sentence.



3
(a)

If your appeal is against conviction or sentence alone, or against
both conviction and sentence,

this notice must be filed within 30 days of the date of imposition
of the sentence.




(b)

If this notice is filed beyond this time, then you must apply for
an extension of time by

completing Form 7.





GROUNDS OF APPEAL




These must be filled in before notice is sent to the Registrar.
The appellant must here set out the grounds

or reasons he alleges why his conviction should be quashed or his
sentence reduced. If one of the

grounds set out  is "misdirection" by the judge, particulars
of the alleged misdirection must be set out

in this notice.




..................................................................................................................................................................




..................................................................................................................................................................




..................................................................................................................................................................




..................................................................................................................................................................




..................................................................................................................................................................




..................................................................................................................................................................




(Use additional separate sheet if necessary)






Form 3

[am. B.C. Reg. 176/91, s. 15.]




[Paragraph 4 (1) (a) and subrule 5 (1)]




NOTICE OF APPEAL OR APPLICATION




FOR LEAVE TO APPEAL




CROWN APPEALS AGAINST ACQUITTAL OR SENTENCE








Lower Court Registry Number:
..........................................




Lower Court Registry Location:
.........................................







COURT OF APPEAL







REGINA




Respondent




vs.




................................................................




Appellant




PARTICULARS OF ACQUITTAL OR SENTENCE



1

Place of acquittal or sentencing
......................................................................................................



2

Name of Judge
..............................................................................................................................



3

Offence(s) of which appellant convicted or acquitted, as the case
may be





......................................................................................................................................................





......................................................................................................................................................



4

Section of
Criminal Code
(Canada) or other Act under which defendant was convicted or
acquitted
........................................................................................................................................




(

State here if appeal is under the Young Offenders Act, if
applicable

)



5

Plea at trial
.......................................................................................................................................



6

Whether or not jury trial
....................................................................................................................



7

Length of trial
..................................................................................................................................



8

Sentence imposed
...........................................................................................................................





.........................................................................................................................................................



9

Date of conviction or acquittal
...........................................................................................................



10

Date of sentence
..............................................................................................................................



11

If defendant in custody, place of incarceration
...................................................................................




TAKE NOTICE
that the appellant
(strike out inapplicable provisions)
:





(a) appeals against the acquittal of the respondent upon
grounds involving question of law alone.





(b) applies for leave to appeal against sentence, and if leave be
granted hereby appeals against the sentence.





(c) (other — e.g. appeals under subsection 676 (3) or (4) of the
Criminal Code
.)




The grounds for appeal are
.........................................................................................................................




...................................................................................................................................................................




...................................................................................................................................................................




...................................................................................................................................................................




...................................................................................................................................................................




...................................................................................................................................................................




...................................................................................................................................................................




...................................................................................................................................................................




...................................................................................................................................................................




(Use additional separate sheet if necessary)




The relief sought
is.......................................................................................................................................




The appellant's address for service
is............................................................................................................




...................................................................................................................................................................




Dated this ......... day of .........................., 19.......




...........................................................




Solicitor on behalf of appellant




To the Registrar







Form 4


APPEAL BOOK

[am. B.C. Reg. 176/91, s. 16.]

[Rule 8]

Cover Page (coloured blue)




COURT OF APPEAL





ON APPEAL FROM: (State court or judge from whose order
the appeal is brought, together with the date that the
order was pronounced.)





(Style of Cause)




BETWEEN:




REGINA



(Respondent/Appellant)



AND:




................................................................



(Appellant/Respondent)







APPEAL BOOK







(Name of counsel for appellant)



............................................



Counsel





(Name of counsel for respondent)



............................................Counsel








Index to Appeal Book





INDEX





DESCRIPTION
DATE
PAGE







APPEAL BOOK



PART 1 — INFORMATION OR INDICTMENT


PART 2 — EXHIBITS AND AFFIDAVITS



(Each document forming an exhibit or part of an exhibit
with its description, date and number in the order in
which it was filed together with the page number of the
transcript at which the exhibit is first referred to in
the evidence. Any exhibits or affidavits that have been
excluded under Rule 9 shall be listed.)




PART 3 — ORDERS, JUDGMENTS AND NOTICE OF APPEAL




(The order under appeal together with the reasons for
judgment and the name of the judge who delivered them
followed by the notice of appeal.)




TRANSCRIPT



PART 1 — EVIDENCE



(Each witness by name, stating whether for the Crown or
defendant, examination in chief, cross examination,
re-examination or as the case may be, giving the page.)




PART 2 — RULINGS, REASONS FOR JUDGMENT OR CHARGE TO THE
JURY




(Each ruling made by the trial judge and his reasons for
judgment or, where the trial was with a jury, his charge
to the jury.)



EXCLUDED EVIDENCE



(A statement of evidence excluded under Rule 9.)








Part 1 — Information or Indictment




Part 1 — Information or Indictment




1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

29

30

31

32

33

34

35

36

37

38

39

40

41

42

43

44

45

46

47







(PART 1 - Information or Indictment: This Part shall
contain the contents of the information or indictment in
the proceedings from which the appeal is brought.)








Part 2 — Exhibits and Affidavits




Part 2 — Exhibits and Affidavits




1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

29

30

31

32

33

34

35

36

37

38

39

40

41

42

43

44

45

46

47







(PART 2 - Exhibits and Affidavits: This Part shall contain
each document in the order that it was filed. Unless
something turns on the document itself, cheques, notes,
bills and other similar documents need not be reproduced
so long as their effect is stated. Documents having common
characteristics shall be arranged in separate groups in
order of their dates, and exhibits and affidavits to be
reproduced in facsimile may, if numerous or of a special
size, be grouped together.


Where evidence from the matter under appeal consisted of
affidavit evidence, all affidavits shall be reproduced in
this Part.)








Part 3 — Orders, Judgments and Notice of Appeal




Part 3 — Orders, Judgments and Notice of Appeal




1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

29

30

31

32

33

34

35

36

37

38

39

40

41

42

43

44

45

46

47







(PART 3 - Orders, Judgments and Notice of Appeal: This
Part shall contain the order under appeal with the name of
the judge who gave it. The surname of a judge shall be
followed by the initials "J." for a judge of the Supreme
Court and "P.C.J." for a judge of the Provincial Court.
Where no transcript is filed, this Part shall contain each
ruling of the trial judge or, where the trial was with a
jury, the judge's charge to the jury. The Notice of Appeal
shall be included at the end of this Part.)










Form 5


TRANSCRIPT

[Rule 8]
Cover Page (coloured red)








COURT OF APPEAL




ON APPEAL FROM: (State court or judge from whose order the
appeal is brought, together with the date that the order
was pronounced.)




(Style of Cause)




BETWEEN:




REGINA



(Respondent/Appellant)



AND:




................................................................



(Appellant/Respondent)






TRANSCRIPT






(Name of counsel for appellant)



............................................



Counsel


(Name of counsel for respondent)



............................................



Counsel







Index to Transcript




INDEX



DESCRIPTION
DATE
PAGE







TRANSCRIPT



PART 1 — EVIDENCE



(Each witness by name, stating whether for the Crown or
defendant, examination in chief, cross examination,
re-examination or as the case may be, giving the page.)




PART 2 – RULINGS, REASONS FOR JUDGMENT OR CHARGE TO THE
JURY




(Each ruling made by the trial judge and his reasons for
judgment or, where the trial was with a jury, his charge
to the jury.)



EXCLUDED EVIDENCE



(A statement of evidence excluded under Rule 9)








Part 1 — Evidence




Part 1 — Evidence




1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

29

30

31

32

33

34

35

36

37

38

39

40

41

42

43

44

45

46

47







(Part 1 - Evidence: This Part shall contain a
transcription of the evidence stating the name of the
witness, the party on whose behalf the witness was
tendered and, on each page, whether the evidence was
during examination in chief, cross examination in chief,
cross examination, re-examination or as the case may be.
Each question shall be preceded by the letter "Q" at the
beginning of the question and the answer shall be preceded
by the letter "A" at the beginning of the answer. Each
page of the transcript shall have 47 lines and each line
shall be consecutively numbered in the left margin.)









Part 2 — Rulings, Reasons for Judgment or Charge to the Jury






Part 2 — Rulings, Reasons for Judgment or Charge to the Jury





1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

29

30

31

32

33

34

35

36

37

38

39

40

41

42

43

44

45

46

47







(PART 2 - Rulings, Reasons for Judgment or Charge to the
Jury: This Part shall contain each ruling made by the
trial judge as well as his reasons for judgment or, where
the trial was with a jury, his charge to the jury.)










Form 6


FACTUM

[am. B.C. Reg. 176/91, s. 17.]

[Rule 10]

Cover Page
(Coloured buff for appellant's factum.
Coloured green for respondent's factum.)








Court of Appeal ...................................




File Number: ........................................




...............................................Registry




COURT OF APPEAL




ON APPEAL FROM: (State court or judge from whose order the
appeal is brought, together with the date that the order
was pronounced.)




(Style of Cause)




BETWEEN:




REGINA



(Respondent/Appellant)



AND:




................................................................



(Appellant/Respondent)







APPELLANT'S (RESPONDENT'S) FACTUM







(Name of counsel for appellant)



.........................................................



Counsel


(Name of counsel for respondent)



........................................................



Counsel








INDEX



(The index is printed on the right side of the factum. All pages in
the remainder of the factum are printed on the left. Pages should be
numbered consecutively beginning at the first page of Part 1. The
factum shall be double spaced, except for excerpts from an authority
or a reproduction of an enactment, which shall be single spaced.)






INDEX



PART
PAGE






PART 1





STATEMENT OF FACTS

(State page where

applicable Part begins.)



PART 2






ERRORS IN JUDGMENT (Appellant's factum)

ISSUE(S) ON APPEAL (Respondent's factum)




PART 3





ARGUMENT



PART 4





NATURE OF ORDER SOUGHT



APPENDICES (if any)




LIST OF AUTHORITIES










Part 1



(In Parts 1 to 4, the left margin shall have printed numbers that
correspond to

the appropriate line of that page.)






Part 1 — Statements of Facts




1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

29

30

31

32

33

34

35

36

37

38

39

40

41

42

43

44

45

46

47







(In the appellant's factum, this Part shall consist of a
concise statement of the course of the proceedings and the
facts of the case. Each paragraph of this Part shall be
consecutively numbered.




In the respondent's factum, this Part shall consist of the
respondent's position with respect to the appellant's
statement of facts together with a concise statement of
any other facts that the respondent considers relevant.




In each factum, the source relied on for a statement of
fact (e.g. testimony and exhibit or the reasons for
judgment) should be identified by referring to the page
and lines of the appeal book or transcript.)









Part 2





Part 2




1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

29

30

31

32

33

34

35

36

37

38

39

40

41

42

43

44

45

46

47







ERRORS IN JUDGMENT (Appellant's factum)




(or)





ISSUE(S) ON APPEAL (Respondent's factum)





(In the appellant's factum, this Part shall consist of a
concise statement that sets out clearly and particularly
in what respect the charge to the jury or the judgment or
order appealed from is alleged to be in error.




In the respondent's factum, this Part shall consist of a
statement of the respondent's position in regard to the
points put in issue in the appellant's factum and of any
other points that the respondent may properly put in
issue.)









Part 3





Part 3




1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

29

30

31

32

33

34

35

36

37

38

39

40

41

42

43

44

45

46

47







ARGUMENT




(In each factum, this Part shall consist of a concise
outline of the argument setting out the points of law or
fact to be discussed, with a particular reference to the
page and lines of the appeal book or transcript and the
authorities in support of each point.




Where an enactment is cited or relied on, it may be
briefly reproduced in this Part, but it shall be
reproduced



(a) as an appendix to the factum, or



(b) as a separate volume having covers the same colour as
the appropriate factum and be filed at the same time as
that factum.)









Part 4





Part 4




1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

29

30

31

32

33

34

35

36

37

38

39

40

41

42

43

44

45

46

47







NATURE OF ORDER SOUGHT




(This Part shall consist of a concise statement of the
nature of the order that the party preparing the factum
desires the court to make)








List of Authorities




LIST OF AUTHORITIES PAGE(S)




1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

29

30

31

32

33

34

35

36

37

38

39

40

41

42

43

44

45

46

47







(Following any appendices, there shall be listed in
alphabetical order all authorities that are referred to in
the factum. After each authority the page or pages in the
factum at which the authority is referred to shall be
cited. All citations of an authority that are known by
counsel shall be given and, when an authority is a
decision of the Supreme Court of Canada, the Supreme Court
Reports' citation shall be given first)










Form 7

[am. B.C. Reg. 176/91, s. 18.]




[Subrule 3 (2) and 3 (3)]





NOTICE OF APPLICATION FOR EXTENSION

OF TIME TO APPEAL





COURT OF APPEAL




REGINA



Respondent



vs.




................................................................



Appellant



IN THE MATTER OF
..........................................................................................................(
Name
)




convicted at .................................................
(Place where convicted)
before...................................
(Judge)
of
.............................................................................................................................................(
Offence
)




on the ................................... day of
..............................................................,
19.... and sentenced to
........................................................................
(Length or description of sentence)
on the ................ day of ..................................,
19....







TAKE NOTICE that an application will be made on behalf of the
above named
.................................................................................
to this Court, or a Judge  thereof, at such time and place as
the Registrar may direct, for an extension of time within which
("an appeal may be brought" or "an application for leave to appeal
may be made"), upon the following grounds:

.............................................................................................................................................................

.............................................................................................................................................................

............................................................................................................................................................

.............................................................................................................................................................

..............................................................................................................................................................




Dated at
.......................................................................................................




this .................... day of
.................................., 19.....




................................................................



(Signature of appellant or his solicitor)



...............................................................



(Print name of appellant or solicitor)



...............................................................



(Name and address for service of solicitor,


or, if no solicitor, an address, not being a


prison, where documents may be served on


the appellant if he is not in custody)



To the Registrar of the Court at
.............................................................................................................






Form 8

[am. B.C. Reg. 176/91, s. 19.]




[Subrule 19 (1)]





NOTICE OF APPLICATION FOR RELEASE FROM CUSTODY PENDING
DETERMINATION OF APPEAL AND ORDER FOR RELEASE





COURT OF APPEAL




REGINA



Respondent



vs.




................................................................



Appellant






TAKE NOTICE that an application will be made on
..................(
day
) at ...........................................to a Justice of
the Court for an order that the appellant be released from custody
pending the determination of his appeal against his conviction at
..........................................................
(location)
by .............................................(
Judge
) of ................................................
(Offence)
on the ..................... day of
................................, 19.... .





Or





against the sentence of
..........................................................................................................
(sentence)
imposed on him at
..................................................
(location)
by..............................................(
Judge
) on the ................................. day of
...................................................... after
conviction of the appellant of
.......................................................(
Offence
)




Dated at
.............................................................................




this .............. day of .............................., 19....




................................................................



(Signature of appellant or his solicitor)



...............................................................



(Print name of appellant or solicitor)



...............................................................



(Name and address for service of solicitor,


or, if no solicitor, an address, not being a


prison, where documents may be served on


the appellant if he is not in custody)



To the Registrar of the Court
at.............................................................................................................








(this order to be completed by the registrar)








COURT OF APPEAL




REGINA



Respondent



vs.




................................................................



Appellant







BEFORE THE HONOURABLE

MR. JUSTICE..............................










The ...... day of .................., 19.... .







IT IS ORDERED
that the appellant, unless he is detained for some cause other
than the said sentence, be released from custody pending the
determination of his appeal as aforesaid upon the appellant giving
an undertaking or entering into a recognizance







......................................................................................................................................................................




("without sureties" or "with sureties")








in the sum of $............
.................................................................................................................................




("without any conditions" / "with conditions set out in the
attached")








before ......................................................



(Justice)






......................................................................................................................................................................




("without depositing any money or other valuable security" or
"upon depositing")





with
..................................................................................



(Justice)




CONDITIONS OF RECOGNIZANCE




(a)

The appellant will report at
......................................................................(
State time and place
) to ............................................................(
State name of peace officer or other person designated
)



(b)

The appellant will remain within the
.........................................................................................................................................................................................
(Designated territorial jurisdiction)



(c)

The appellant will notify
....................................................................(
Name of peace officer or other designated person
) of any change in his address, employment or occupation.



(d)

The appellant will abstain from communicating with
.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

.......................................................................................................................................................

.......................................................................................................................................................



(e)

The appellant will deposit his passport with
...................................................................................

.......................................................................................................................................................



(f)

The appellant shall promptly order and pay for a transcript of the
proceedings at trial or, in the event that a Court Reporter was
not present, attempt to obtain a copy of the Judge's notes, or
depositions of the witnesses, as the case may be.



(g)

The appellant shall surrender himself into custody on
.......................................................................







APPROVED AS TO FORM




...................................................



Prosecutor





Form 9

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/91, s. 20.]




[Subrule 19 (5)]





NOTICE TO RELEASE APPELLANT PENDING

DETERMINATION OF APPEAL








COURT OF APPEAL



REGINA


Respondent



vs.




................................................................



Appellant



TAKE NOTICE
that the appellant, who was convicted at
....................................................
(location)
by .........................................................(
title of Judge
) ............................................................(
name of Judge
) of
..............................................................(
offence
) on the .............. day of.........., 19... and who was
sentenced to
............................................................(
sentence
), having complied with the order of the Honourable (Mr./Madam)
Justice.................................................... of the
Court of Appeal made on the
............................................... day of
.............................., 19.... pursuant to section 679 of
the
Criminal Code
, has now the right to be released from custody (unless the
appellant is detained for some cause other than the said sentence)
pending determination of the appellant's appeal against the said
conviction and sentence or both.




Dated at
.....................................................................




this ........... day of .........................., 19....




.............................................................



Registrar/Justice



To ..............................................................
(Insert name of person having custody of the appellant)






Form 10

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/91, s. 20.]




[Subrule 20 (1)]




COURT OF APPEAL




Criminal Code Section 680




REGINA



Respondent



vs.




................................................................



Appellant






To the Honourable the Chief justice of British Columbia:




I hereby request under section 680 of the
Criminal Code
that you direct a review by the Court of the decision of the
honourable (Mr./Madam) Justice
.................................................................
made on the ..................... day of ........................,
19..... .




Dated at
...................................................................




this ............ day of ......................, 19.....




...............................................................




(Signature of appellant or solicitor)




...............................................................




(Print name of appellant or solicitor)




...............................................................




(Name and address for service of solicitor,




or, if no solicitor, an address, not being a




prison, where documents may be served on




the appellant if he is not in custody)



To the Registrar





Form 11

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/91, s. 20.]




[Paragraph 14 (1) (a)]




COURT OF APPEAL




NOTICE OF ABANDONMENT OF APPEAL




Court of Appeal

File Number:................................







REGINA




Respondent




vs.




................................................................




Appellant




I hereby give notice that I
...............................................................abandon
this appeal for:






Conviction appeal






Sentence appeal






Other (
Specify nature of appeal
)




Dated at .....................................................,
British Columbia,




this ........ day of ............................, 19...... .




...............................................................




(Signature of appellant or solicitor)




...............................................................




(Print name of appellant or solicitor)




Where signed by the appellant, this notice was signed

in the presence of:




........................................................




Witness




.......................................................




(
Print name of witness
)




To the Respondent




To the Registrar








Footnotes to Form 2





1.


Provincial Court, Supreme Court








2.


e.g. theft, forgery (

State here if appeal is under the
Young Offenders Act
.

)








3.


If the appellant wishes to appeal against conviction, he must
write the word "conviction". If he wishes to appeal against
sentence, he must write the word "sentence". If he wishes to
appeal against both conviction and sentence he must write the
words "conviction and sentence". If an appellant convicted of more
than one offence wishes to appeal against only some of the
convictions or sentences, he must state clearly the convictions or
sentences against which he wishes to appeal.








4.

See Note 1 below form.







5.

Stroke out (a) or (b).







6.


If you desire to submit your case and argument in writing you may
serve your written argument within 14  days after receipt by
you of the report of the trial judge.








7.


This notice must be signed by the appellant. If he cannot write he
must affix his mark in the presence of witnesses. The name and
address of each attesting witness must be given.





[Provisions of the

Criminal Code

(Canada), R.S.C. 1985, c. C-46, relevant to the enactment of these
rules: section 482]



