




Community Charter
[SBC 2003] CHAPTER 26


Assented to May 29, 2003




Part 1 — Principles, Purposes and Interpretation





Principles of municipal governance




1

(1)


Municipalities and their councils are recognized as an order of
government within their jurisdiction that




(a)

is democratically elected, autonomous, responsible and accountable,




(b)

is established and continued by the will of the residents of their
communities, and




(c)

provides for the municipal purposes of their communities.




(2)

In relation to subsection (1), the Provincial government recognizes
that municipalities require




(a)

adequate powers and discretion to address existing and future
community needs,




(b)

authority to determine the public interest of their communities,
within a legislative framework that supports balance and certainty in
relation to the differing interests of their communities,




(c)

the ability to draw on financial and other resources that are adequate
to support community needs,




(d)

authority to determine the levels of municipal expenditures and
taxation that are appropriate for their purposes, and




(e)

authority to provide effective management and delivery of services in
a manner that is responsive to community needs.






Principles of municipal-provincial relations




2

(1)


The citizens of British Columbia are best served when, in their
relationship, municipalities and the Provincial government




(a)

acknowledge and respect the jurisdiction of each,




(b)

work towards harmonization of Provincial and municipal enactments,
policies and programs, and




(c)

foster cooperative approaches to matters of mutual interest.




(2)

The relationship between municipalities and the Provincial government
is based on the following principles:




(a)

the Provincial government respects municipal authority and
municipalities respect Provincial authority;




(b)

the Provincial government must not assign responsibilities to
municipalities unless there is provision for resources required to
fulfill the responsibilities;




(c)

consultation is needed on matters of mutual interest, including
consultation by the Provincial government on




(i)

proposed changes to local government legislation,




(ii)

proposed changes to revenue transfers to municipalities, and




(iii)

proposed changes to Provincial programs that will have a significant
impact in relation to matters that are within municipal authority;




(d)

the Provincial government respects the varying needs and conditions of
different municipalities in different areas of British Columbia;




(e)

consideration of municipal interests is needed when the Provincial
government participates in interprovincial, national or international
discussions on matters that affect municipalities;




(f)

the authority of municipalities is balanced by the responsibility of
the Provincial government to consider the interests of the citizens of
British Columbia generally;




(g)

the Provincial government and municipalities should attempt to resolve
conflicts between them by consultation, negotiation, facilitation and
other forms of dispute resolution.






Purposes of Act




3


The purposes of this Act are to provide municipalities and their
councils with




(a)

a legal framework for the powers, duties and functions that are
necessary to fulfill their purposes,




(b)

the authority and discretion to address existing and future community
needs, and




(c)

the flexibility to determine the public interest of their communities
and to respond to the different needs and changing circumstances of
their communities.






Broad interpretation




4

(1)


The powers conferred on municipalities and their councils under this
Act or the

Local Government Act

must be interpreted broadly in accordance with the purposes of those
Acts and in accordance with municipal purposes.




(2)

If




(a)

an enactment confers a specific power on a municipality or council in
relation to a matter, and




(b)

the specific power can be read as coming within a general power
conferred under this Act or the

Local Government Act

,


the general power must not be interpreted as being limited by that
specific power, but that aspect of the general power that encompasses
the specific power may only be exercised subject to any conditions and
restrictions established in relation to the specific power.






Definitions and other interpretation rules




5


The Schedule to this Act establishes definitions of terms used in this
Act and rules of interpretation that apply to this Act.




Part 2 — Municipal Purposes and Powers



Division 1 — Purposes and Fundamental Powers





Municipalities and their councils




6

(1)


A municipality is a corporation of the residents of its area.




(2)

The governing body of a municipality is its council.




(3)

New municipalities may be established, and the boundaries of existing
municipalities may be altered, in accordance with Part 2
[Incorporation of Municipalities and Regional Districts]
of the

Local Government Act

.






Municipal purposes




7


The purposes of a municipality include




(a)

providing for good government of its community,




(b)

providing for services, laws and other matters for community benefit,




(c)

providing for stewardship of the public assets of its community, and




(d)

fostering the economic, social and environmental well-being of its
community.






Fundamental powers




8

(1)


A municipality has the capacity, rights, powers and privileges of a
natural person of full capacity.




(2)

A municipality may provide any service that the council considers
necessary or desirable, and may do this directly or through another
public authority or another person or organization.




(3)

A council may, by bylaw, regulate, prohibit and impose requirements in
relation to the following:




(a)

municipal services;




(b)

public places;




(c)

trees;




(d)

firecrackers, fireworks and explosives;




(e)

bows and arrows, knives and other weapons not referred to in
subsection (5);




(f)

cemeteries, crematoriums, columbariums and mausoleums and the
interment or other disposition of the dead;




(g)

the health, safety or protection of persons or property in relation to
matters referred to in section 63
[protection of persons and property]
;




(h)

the protection and enhancement of the well-being of its community in
relation to the matters referred to in section 64

[nuisances, disturbances and other objectionable situations]

;




(i)

public health;




(j)

protection of the natural environment;




(k)

animals;




(l)

buildings and other structures;




(m)

the removal of soil and the deposit of soil or other material.




(4)

A council may, by bylaw, regulate and impose requirements in relation
to matters referred to in section 65
[signs and other advertising]
.




(5)

A council may, by bylaw, regulate and prohibit in relation to the
discharge of firearms.




(6)

A council may, by bylaw, regulate in relation to business.




(7)

The powers under subsections (3) to (6) to regulate, prohibit and
impose requirements, as applicable, in relation to a matter




(a)

are separate powers that may be exercised independently of one
another,




(b)

include the power to regulate, prohibit and impose requirements, as
applicable, respecting persons, property, things and activities in
relation to the matter, and




(c)

may not be used to do anything that a council is specifically
authorized to do under Part 14
[Planning and Land Use Management]
or Part 15
[Heritage Conservation]
of the

Local Government Act

.




(8)

As examples, the powers to regulate, prohibit and impose requirements
under this section include the following powers:




(a)

to provide that persons may engage in a regulated activity only in
accordance with the rules established by bylaw;




(b)

to prohibit persons from doing things with their property;




(c)

to require persons to do things with their property, to do things at
their expense and to provide security for fulfilling a requirement.




(9)

A municipality must make available to the public, on request, a
statement respecting the council's reasons for adopting a bylaw under
subsection (3), (4), (5) or (6).




(10)

Powers provided to municipalities under this section




(a)

are subject to any specific conditions and restrictions established
under this or another Act, and




(b)

must be exercised in accordance with this Act unless otherwise
provided.




(11)

For certainty,




(a)

the authority under subsection (2) does not include the authority to
regulate, prohibit or impose requirements, and




(b)

for the purposes of subsection (3) (a), a service does not include an
activity that is merely the exercise of authority to regulate,
prohibit or impose requirements and related enforcement.






Spheres of concurrent authority




9

(1)


This section applies in relation to the following:




(a)

bylaws under section 8 (3) (i)
[public health]
;




(b)

bylaws under section 8 (3) (j)
[protection of the natural environment]
;




(c)

bylaws under section 8 (3) (k)
[animals]
in relation to wildlife;




(d)

[Repealed 2015-2-47.]




(e)

bylaws under section 8 (3) (m)
[removal and deposit of soil and other material]
that




(i)

prohibit soil removal, or




(ii)

prohibit the deposit of soil or other material, making reference to
quality of the soil or material or to contamination.




(2)

For certainty, this section does not apply to




(a)

a bylaw under section 8
[fundamental powers]
that is under a provision not referred to in subsection (1) or is in
respect of a matter to which subsection (1) does not apply,




(b)

a bylaw that is authorized under a provision of this Act other than
section 8, or




(c)

a bylaw that is authorized under another Act,


even if the bylaw could have been made under an authority to which
this section does apply.




(3)

Recognizing the Provincial interest in matters dealt with by bylaws
referred to in subsection (1), a council may not adopt a bylaw to
which this section applies unless the bylaw is




(a)

in accordance with a regulation under subsection (4),




(b)

in accordance with an agreement under subsection (5), or




(c)

approved by the minister responsible.




(4)

The minister responsible may, by regulation, do the following:




(a)

establish matters in relation to which municipalities may exercise
authority as contemplated by subsection (3) (a), either




(i)

by specifying the matters in relation to which they may exercise
authority, or




(ii)

by providing that the restriction under subsection (3) only applies in
relation to specified matters;




(b)

provide that the exercise of that authority is subject to the
restrictions and conditions established by the regulation;




(c)

provide that the exercise of that authority may be made subject to
restrictions and conditions specified by the minister responsible or
by a person designated by name or title in the regulation.




(5)

The minister responsible may enter into an agreement with one or more
municipalities that has the same effect in relation to the
municipalities as a regulation that could be made under subsection
(4).




(6)

If




(a)

a regulation or agreement under this section is amended or repealed,
and




(b)

the effect of the amendment or repeal is that bylaws that previously
did not require authorization under subsection (3) would now require
that authorization,


those bylaws affected that were validly in force at the time of the
amendment or repeal continue in force as if they had been approved by
that minister.




Division 2 — Scope of Jurisdiction





Relationship with Provincial laws




10

(1)


A provision of a municipal bylaw has no effect if it is inconsistent
with a Provincial enactment.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1), unless otherwise provided, a
municipal bylaw is not inconsistent with another enactment if a person
who complies with the bylaw does not, by this, contravene the other
enactment.






Area of jurisdiction




11

(1)


A municipality and its council may only exercise or perform their
powers, duties and functions within the boundaries of the
municipality, unless authorized under this or another Act.




(2)

The natural person powers of a municipality may be exercised outside
the boundaries of the municipality.




(3)

If a municipality has established works or facilities outside the
boundaries of the municipality for the purposes of a municipal
service, the council's power to regulate, prohibit and impose
requirements in relation to the use of those works and facilities may
be exercised outside the boundaries of the municipality.




Division 3 — Ancillary Powers





Authority to establish variations, terms and conditions




12

(1)


A municipal bylaw under this Act may do one or more of the following:




(a)

make different provisions for different areas, times, conditions or
circumstances as described by bylaw;




(b)

establish different classes of persons, places, activities, property
or things;




(c)

make different provisions, including exceptions, for different classes
established under paragraph (b).




(2)

A council may, in exercising its powers under section 8 (1)
[natural person powers]
, establish any terms and conditions it considers appropriate.






Services outside municipality




13

(1)


A municipality may provide a service in an area outside the
municipality, but it must first obtain consent as follows:




(a)

if the area is in another municipality, the council must obtain the
consent of the council of the other municipality;




(b)

if the area is not in another municipality and is not treaty lands,
the council must obtain the consent of the regional district board for
the area.




(2)

In giving consent under subsection (1), the other local government may
establish terms and conditions, including terms and conditions
respecting




(a)

limits on the service to be provided in its area, and




(b)

the process for terminating provision of the service in its area.




(3)

If consent is given as referred to in subsection (1), the municipal
powers, duties and functions provided under this or any other Act in
relation to the service may be exercised in the area referred to in
that subsection, subject to any applicable terms and conditions
established under subsection (2).






Services within treaty lands




13.1

(1)


A municipality may provide a service within treaty lands under an
agreement with the treaty first nation.




(2)

An agreement under subsection (1) must set out the terms and
conditions on which the service is provided within the treaty lands,
including terms and conditions respecting




(a)

limits on the service to be provided under the agreement, and




(b)

the process for terminating provision of the service under the
agreement.




(3)

If an agreement is entered into under subsection (1), subject to the
terms and conditions of that agreement and to the final agreement, the
municipal powers, duties and functions provided under this or any
other Act in relation to the service may be exercised within the
treaty lands of the treaty first nation.






Intermunicipal service, regulatory and other schemes




14

(1)


Two or more municipalities may, by bylaw adopted by the council of
each participating municipality, establish an intermunicipal scheme in
relation to one or more matters for which they have authority under
this Act or the

Local Government Act

.




(2)

A bylaw under subsection (1) may do one or more of the following:




(a)

provide that the bylaws of one or more of the participating
municipalities in relation to the matters dealt with by the scheme
apply in other participating municipalities;




(b)

provide that the municipal powers, duties and functions of one or more
of the participating municipalities may be exercised in relation to
the scheme in another participating municipality;




(c)

provide that the council of one or more of the participating
municipalities may delegate under Division 6
[Delegation]
of Part 5
[Municipal Government and Procedures]
to council members, council committees, officers, employees and other
bodies referred to in section 154 (1)
[delegation of council authority]
of another participating municipality;




(d)

restrict a participating municipality from separately exercising its
authority in relation to the matters dealt with by the scheme;




(e)

establish the process by which a participating municipality may
withdraw from the scheme.





(
2.1
)



A regional district and one or more municipalities may, by bylaw
adopted by the board of the regional district and by bylaw adopted
by the council of each participating municipality, establish an
intermunicipal scheme in relation to the regulation of business.






(
2.2
)



Subject to the regulations, a bylaw under subsection (2.1) may
provide for matters in respect of which regulations may be made
under section 282 (2) (b.1)


[general regulation authority]

.




(3)

If an intermunicipal service scheme is established under

subsection (1), this section applies rather than
section 13

.





(
4
)



If an intermunicipal scheme is established under
subsection (2.1), this section applies rather than
section 13 of this Act and section 333



[consent required for services outside regional district]


of the


Local Government Act


.






Licensing and standards authority




15

(1)


A council may, in regulating under this Act or the

Local Government Act

, provide for a system of licences, permits or approvals, including by
doing one or more of the following:




(a)

prohibiting any activity or thing until a licence, permit or approval
has been granted;




(b)

providing for the granting and refusal of licences, permits and
approvals;




(c)

providing for the effective periods of licences, permits and
approvals;




(d)

establishing




(i)

terms and conditions of, or




(ii)

terms and conditions that must be met for obtaining, continuing to
hold or renewing


a licence, permit or approval, or providing that such terms and
conditions may be imposed, the nature of the terms and conditions and
who may impose them;




(e)

providing for the suspension or cancellation of licences, permits and
approvals for




(i)

failure to comply with a term or condition of a licence, permit or
approval, or




(ii)

failure to comply with the bylaw;




(f)

providing for reconsideration or appeals of decisions made with
respect to the granting, refusal, suspension or cancellation of
licences, permits and approvals.




(2)

A council may, in regulating in relation to a matter under this Act or
the

Local Government Act

,




(a)

establish a standard, code or rule by adopting a standard, code or
rule




(i)

published by a provincial, national or international body or standards
association, or




(ii)

enacted as or under a law of this or another jurisdiction, including a
foreign jurisdiction, and




(b)

adopt the standard, code or rule under paragraph (a)




(i)

in whole, in part or with any changes considered appropriate, and




(ii)

as it stands at a specific date, as it stands at the time of adoption
or as amended from time to time.






Authority to enter on or into property




16

(1)


This section applies in relation to an authority under this or another
Act for a municipality to enter on property.




(2)

The authority may be exercised by officers or employees of the
municipality or by other persons authorized by the council.




(3)

Subject to this section, the authority includes authority to enter on
property, and to enter into property, without the consent of the owner
or occupier.




(4)

Except in the case of an emergency, a person




(a)

may only exercise the authority at reasonable times and in a
reasonable manner, and




(b)

must take reasonable steps to advise the owner or occupier before
entering the property.




(5)

The authority may only be used to enter into a place that is occupied
as a private dwelling if any of the following applies:




(a)

the occupier consents;




(b)

the municipality has given the occupier at least 24 hours' written
notice of the entry and the reasons for it;




(c)

the entry is made under the authority of a warrant under this or
another Act;




(d)

the person exercising the authority has reasonable grounds for
believing that failure to enter may result in a significant risk to
the health or safety of the occupier or other persons;




(e)

the entry is for a purpose referred to in subsection (6) (a) in
relation to regulations, prohibitions or requirements applicable to
the place that is being entered.




(6)

Without limiting the matters to which this section applies, a
municipality may enter on property for any of the following purposes:




(a)

to inspect and determine whether all regulations, prohibitions and
requirements are being met in relation to any matter for which the
council, a municipal officer or employee or a person authorized by the
council has exercised authority under this or another Act to regulate,
prohibit and impose requirements;




(b)

to take action authorized under section 17 (1)
[municipal action at defaulter's expense]
;




(c)

in relation to section 18
[authority to discontinue providing a service]
, to disconnect or remove the system or works of the service;




(d)

to assess or inspect in relation to the exercise of authority under
section 8 (3) (c)
[spheres of authority — trees]
.






Municipal action at defaulter's expense




17

(1)


The authority of a council under this or another Act to require that
something be done includes the authority to direct that, if a person
subject to the requirement fails to take the required action, the
municipality may




(a)

fulfill the requirement at the expense of the person, and




(b)

recover the costs incurred from that person as a debt.




(2)

Division 14
[Recovery of Special Fees]
of Part 7
[Municipal Revenue]
applies to an amount recoverable under subsection (1) that is incurred
for work done or services provided in relation to land or
improvements.






Authority to discontinue providing a service




18

(1)


A municipality may, by bylaw, establish circumstances in which it may
discontinue providing a municipal utility or other service to a
specific property or person




(a)

because of unpaid fees or taxes in relation to the service, or




(b)

because of non-compliance with the rules established by bylaw or
contract respecting the use of the service.




(2)

A bylaw under subsection (1)




(a)

must include provision for reasonable notice, and




(b)

in relation to a discontinuation under subsection (1) (b), must
include provision for the persons affected to have an opportunity to
make representations to council.






Requirements for security to be paid to municipality




19

(1)


This section applies if




(a)

a bylaw requires a person to provide the municipality with security,
or




(b)

the council or a person authorized by the council requires a person to
provide security to the municipality as a condition of a licence,
permit or approval.




(2)

The person who is subject to the requirement may, at that person's
option, provide the security by




(a)

a cash deposit,




(b)

an irrevocable letter of credit, or




(c)

another form of security satisfactory to the council or the person who
imposed the requirement for the security.




(3)

The municipality must deal with the security as follows:




(a)

interest on the security becomes part of the security;




(b)

the security may only be used for the purpose for which it was
provided;




(c)

any amount not required for that purpose must be returned to the
person who provided the security.






Emergency powers




20

(1)


If an emergency within the meaning of the



Emergency and Disaster Management Act



arises in a municipality, the council has the powers provided under
that Act.




(2)

If another form of emergency arises in a municipality, the council may
declare that the emergency exists and provide for the necessary powers
to deal with the emergency.




Part 3 — Additional Powers and Limits on Powers



Division 1 — Partnering and Other Agreements





Partnering agreements




21


If a municipality enters into a partnering agreement for the provision
of a service on behalf of the municipality, the council may




(a)

provide assistance, other than tax exemptions, to a business in
accordance with the agreement, and




(b)

provide assistance by way of a tax exemption in accordance with
Division 7
[Permissive Exemptions]
of Part 7
[Municipal Revenue]
.






Agreements granting exclusive or limited franchises




22

(1)


A council may, by bylaw adopted with the approval of the electors,
enter into an agreement that grants an exclusive or limited franchise
for the provision of one or more of the following in accordance with
the agreement:




(a)

a public transportation system;




(b)

water through a water supply system;




(c)

sewage disposal through a sewage system;




(d)

gas, electrical or other energy supply system.




(2)

The maximum term of an initial agreement or a renewal agreement under
this section is 21 years.






Agreements with other public authorities




23

(1)


A council may make agreements with a public authority respecting




(a)

activities and services within the powers of a party to the agreement,
including agreements respecting the undertaking, provision and
operation of activities and services,




(b)

operation and enforcement in relation to the exercise of authority to
regulate, prohibit and impose requirements within the powers of a
party to the agreement, and




(c)

the management of property or an interest in property held by a party
to the agreement.




(2)

An agreement between a municipality and a public authority in another
country respecting the provision and operation of works and services
has no effect unless it is approved by the Lieutenant Governor in
Council.




Division 2 — Restrictions on Providing Assistance





Publication of intention to provide certain kinds of assistance




24

(1)


A council must give notice in accordance with section 94
[public notice]
of its intention to provide any of the following forms of assistance
to a person or organization:




(a)

disposing of land or improvements, or any interest or right in or with
respect to them, for less than market value;




(b)

lending money;




(c)

guaranteeing repayment of borrowing or providing security for
borrowing;




(d)

assistance under a partnering agreement.




(2)

The notice must be published before the assistance is provided and
must




(a)

identify the intended recipient of the assistance, and




(b)

describe the nature, term and extent of the proposed assistance.






General prohibition against assistance to business and exceptions




25

(1)


Unless expressly authorized under this or another Act, a council must
not provide a grant, benefit, advantage or other form of assistance to
a business, including




(a)

any form of assistance referred to in section 24 (1)

[publication of intention to provide certain kinds of assistance]

, or




(b)

an exemption from a tax or fee.




(2)

A council may provide assistance to a business for one or more of the
following purposes:




(a)

acquiring, conserving and developing heritage property and other
heritage resources;




(b)

gaining knowledge and increasing public awareness about the
community's history and heritage;




(c)

any other activities the council considers necessary or desirable with
respect to the conservation of heritage property and other heritage
resources.




(3)

A council may, by an affirmative vote of at least 2/3 of all the
members of council, provide assistance to a business for the
conservation of any of the following property:




(a)

property that is protected heritage property;




(b)

property that is subject to a heritage revitalization agreement under
section 610 of the

Local Government Act

;




(c)

property that is subject to a covenant under section 219 of the

Land Title Act

that relates to the conservation of heritage property.




Division 3 — Municipal Property





Notice of proposed property disposition




26

(1)


Before a council disposes of land or improvements, it must publish
notice of the proposed disposition in accordance with section 94
[public notice]
.




(2)

In the case of property that is available to the public for
acquisition, notice under this section must include the following:




(a)

a description of the land or improvements;




(b)

the nature and, if applicable, the term of the proposed disposition;




(c)

the process by which the land or improvements may be acquired.




(3)

In the case of property that is not available to the public for
acquisition, notice under this section must include the following:




(a)

a description of the land or improvements;




(b)

the person or public authority who is to acquire the property under
the proposed disposition;




(c)

the nature and, if applicable, the term of the proposed disposition;




(d)

the consideration to be received by the municipality for the
disposition.






Exchange or other disposal of park land




27

(1)


This section applies to land vested in a municipality under




(a)

section 29
[subdivision park land]
of this Act,




(b)

section 510 (13)
[provision of park land in relation to subdivision]
of the

Local Government Act

, or




(c)

section 567 (5) (a)

[provision of park land in place of development cost charges]

of the

Local Government Act

.




(2)

A council may, by bylaw adopted with the approval of the electors,




(a)

dispose of all or part of the land in exchange for other land suitable
for a park or public square, or




(b)

dispose of the land, provided that the proceeds of the disposal are to
be placed to the credit of a reserve fund under section 188 (2) (b)
[park land acquisition reserve fund]
.




(3)

Land taken in exchange by a municipality under this section is
dedicated for the purpose of a park or public square and the title to
it vests in the municipality.




(4)

A transfer of land by a municipality under this section has effect
free of any dedication to the public for the purpose of a park or a
public square and section 30 (3)
[removal of park dedication]
does not apply.






Disposal of water systems, sewage systems and other utilities




28

(1)


This section applies to works for one or more of the following:




(a)

the supply, treatment, conveyance, storage and distribution of water;




(b)

the collection, conveyance, treatment and disposal of sewage;




(c)

the supply and distribution of gas or electrical energy;




(d)

a transportation system;




(e)

a telephone system, closed circuit television system or television
rebroadcasting system.




(2)

A council has unrestricted authority to dispose of works referred to
in subsection (1) if




(a)

the works are no longer required for the purpose described in
subsection (1), or




(b)

the works are disposed of to another municipality in the same regional
district or to the regional district.




(3)

In the case of works referred to in subsection (1) (a) or (b) that are
used by a municipality to provide a water or sewer service, the
council may only dispose of the works if




(a)

an agreement under which the water or sewer service will continue for
a period specified in the agreement is in effect, and




(b)

the intended disposition and agreement receives the assent of the
electors.




(4)

In the case of works other than those referred to in subsections (2)
and (3), the council may only dispose of the works with the approval
of the electors.






Municipal ownership of subdivision park land




29

(1)


Land in a municipality that is dedicated to the public for the purpose
of a park or a public square by a subdivision plan, explanatory plan
or reference plan deposited in the land title office is vested in the
municipality for that purpose.




(2)

The vesting under subsection (1) is subject to the exceptions
described in section 107 (1) (d) of the

Land Title Act

as if the vesting were under that section.






Reservation and dedication of municipal property




30

(1)


A council may, by bylaw, reserve or dedicate for a particular
municipal or other public purpose real property owned by the
municipality.




(2)

As a restriction, a bylaw under subsection (1) that reserves or
dedicates property




(a)

as a park or public square, or




(b)

for purposes related to heritage or heritage conservation,


may only be adopted by an affirmative vote of at least 2/3 of all the
members of council.




(3)

A bylaw that removes a reservation or dedication referred to in
subsection (2) may only be adopted with the approval of the electors.




(4)

A bylaw that removes a reservation or dedication under subsection (1),
other than one referred to in subsection (2), may only be adopted
after the council




(a)

gives notice of its intention in accordance with section 94
[public notice]
, and




(b)

provides an opportunity for persons who consider that they are
affected by the bylaw to make representations to council.




(5)

Bylaws adopted or works undertaken by a council that directly affect
property reserved or dedicated under this section must be consistent
with the purpose for which the property is reserved or dedicated.




(6)

A reservation or dedication under this section does not commit or
authorize a council to proceed with implementation of the purpose for
which the property is reserved or dedicated.




Division 4 — Expropriation and Compensation





General expropriation power




31

(1)


For the purpose of exercising or performing its powers, duties and
functions, a municipality may expropriate real property or works, or
an interest in them, in accordance with the

Expropriation Act

.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), in addition to the rights conferred
on licensees under sections 32
[licensee's right to expropriate land]
and 33
[licensee's rights when owner refuses compensation]
of the

Water Sustainability Act

, a municipality may expropriate




(a)

a licence authorizing the diversion of water from a stream or an
aquifer that is suitable for a water supply for the municipality, and




(b)

any work constructed or used under authority of the licence.




(3)

The powers under subsections (1) and (2) also apply to property
outside the municipality for the purposes of




(a)

a service provided by the municipality to an area outside the
municipality, or




(b)

establishing and managing quarries, sand pits or gravel pits to
acquire material for municipal works.






Authority to enter on and use property




32

(1)


Without limiting section 31
[expropriation power]
, a municipality may, for the purposes of one or more services of the
municipality,




(a)

enter on, break up, alter, take or enter into possession of and use
real property, and




(b)

construct works through, under or over real property.




(2)

If a municipality provides a service outside the municipality, the
power under subsection (1) applies to property outside the
municipality in relation to that service.




(3)

If a council considers that real property may be injuriously affected
by the exercise of a council power, the municipality may enter on real
property and undertake works of construction, maintenance or repair in
mitigation of injury done or anticipated, or in reduction of
compensation.




(4)

In addition to the authority under subsection (1) (b), a municipality
may construct works through, under or over land adjoining a highway
for the protection of the highway from damage by water.




(5)

The authority under this section may be exercised without the consent
of the owner of the property, subject to the restrictions established
by section 16
[authority to enter on or into property]
.






Compensation for expropriation and other actions




33

(1)


Unless expressly provided otherwise, if a municipality expropriates
real property or works under this or any other enactment, compensation
is payable to the owners, occupiers or other persons interested in the
property for any damages necessarily resulting from the exercise of
those powers beyond any benefit that the person claiming the
compensation may derive from the work resulting from the
expropriation.




(2)

If a municipality




(a)

exercises a power to enter on, break up, alter, take or enter into
possession of and use any property, or injuriously affects property by
the exercise of any of its powers, and




(b)

exercises a power referred to in paragraph (a) that does not
constitute an expropriation within the meaning of the

Expropriation Act

,


compensation is payable for any loss or damages caused by the exercise
of the power.




(3)

For the purposes of subsection (2), compensation must be paid as soon
as reasonably possible in an amount set




(a)

by agreement between the person claiming compensation and the
municipality, or




(b)

if no agreement is reached, by the Supreme Court.






Appropriation of stream channel or bed without compensation




34

(1)


A council may appropriate the land constituting the channel or bed of
a stream that passes through the municipality, without compensation to
the owner, for the purpose of constructing one or more of the
following:




(a)

dikes;




(b)

works to maintain the proper flow of water in a stream, ditch, drain
or sewer in the municipality;




(c)

works to reclaim or to protect part of the land mass of the
municipality from erosion by action of the sea or a stream or by any
other cause;




(d)

works to protect all or part of the banks of the stream from erosion
or damage;




(e)

works to make a watercourse part of the municipal drainage system,
whether the watercourse is on municipal land, private land or a
highway;




(f)

works through, under or over land adjoining a highway to protect the
highway from damage by water.




(2)

Before exercising the power under subsection (1), the council must, by
bylaw, define the channel or bed of the stream.




(3)

A certified copy of every bylaw under subsection (2), together with a
plan showing the channel or bed of the stream as defined in the bylaw,
must be filed in the land title office.




Division 5 — Highways





Ownership and possession of highways




35

(1)


Subject to this section,




(a)

the soil and freehold of every highway in a municipality is vested in
the municipality, and




(b)

in the case of a highway in a municipality that is not vested under
paragraph (a), the right of possession of the highway is vested in the
municipality.




(2)

Subsection (1) (a) does not apply to the following:




(a)

Provincial arterial highways, including the intersection between a
Provincial arterial highway and another highway and any interchange
between a Provincial arterial highway and another highway;




(b)

highways referred to in section 23 (1) of the

South Coast British Columbia Transportation Authority Act

;




(c)

highways in a park, conservancy, recreation area or ecological reserve
established under the

Park Act

, the

Ecological Reserve Act

or the

Protected Areas of British Columbia Act

or an area to which an order under section 7 (1) of the

Environment and Land Use Act

applies;




(d)

highways in a regional park;




(e)

a regional trail, other than a regional trail that is part of the road
system regularly used by vehicle traffic;




(f)

land, including the improvements on it, on which Provincial works such
as ferry terminals, gravel pits, weigh scales and maintenance yards
are located;




(g)

roads referred to in section 24 of the

Forest and Range Practices Act

that have not been declared to be public highways;




(h)

highways vested in the federal government;




(i)

in relation to a reserve as defined in the

Indian Act

(Canada), highways in the reserve or that pass through the reserve;




(j)

public rights of way on private land.




(3)

Subsection (1) (b) does not apply to highways referred to in
subsection (2) (a) to (h).




(4)

The vesting under subsection (1) (a) and the right of possession under
subsection (1) (b)




(a)

are not adversely affected or derogated from by prescription in favour
of any other occupier, and




(b)

are subject to any rights reserved by the persons who laid out the
highway.




(5)

The vesting under subsection (1) (a) includes the vesting of all
statutory rights of way and other easements owned by the Provincial
government solely for purposes relating to the drainage of a highway
that is vested under that subsection, and the interest of the
Provincial government under those easements is transferred to the
municipality and the municipality assumes the rights and obligations
of the Provincial government in relation to those easements.




(6)

The minister responsible for the

Transportation Act

may file with the land title office an application satisfactory to the
registrar of land titles that identifies an easement referred to in
subsection (5) and, on filing, the registrar must register ownership
of the easement in the name of the municipality.




(7)

The vesting under subsection (1) (a) is subject to the following:




(a)

the right of resumption under subsection (8);




(b)

the limits referred to in section 23 (2) of the

Land Title Act

;




(c)

the exceptions described in section 50 (1) (a) (ii) to (iv) and (b) of
the

Land Act

, as if the vesting were made by Crown grant under that Act;




(d)

the exceptions described in section 107 (1) (d) of the

Land Title Act

, as if the vesting were under that section.




(8)

The Provincial government may, by order of the Lieutenant Governor in
Council, resume the property or interest vested in a municipality
under subsection (1) (a), if the Lieutenant Governor in Council
considers that this is required




(a)

for the purpose of or in relation to a Provincial arterial highway,




(b)

for any other transportation purpose, or




(c)

for the purpose of or in relation to a park, conservancy, recreation
area or ecological reserve established or proposed to be established
under the

Park Act

, the

Ecological Reserve Act

or the

Protected Areas of British Columbia Act

or an area to which an order under section 7 (1) of the

Environment and Land Use Act

applies.




(9)

An order under subsection (8) (a) or (b) may only be made on the
recommendation of the minister responsible for the

Transportation Act

, and an order under subsection (8) (c) may only be made on the
recommendation of the minister responsible for the applicable Act
referred to in that subsection.




(10)

The minister responsible for the

Transportation Act

, after consultation with the minister responsible for this Act, may




(a)

by order, cancel the Provincial government's right of resumption under
subsection (8) in relation to a specified highway or in relation to
highways within a specified area, or




(b)

by regulation, specify circumstances in which the Provincial
government's right of resumption is cancelled without a specific
order.




(11)

For certainty, a council may grant a licence of occupation or an
easement, or permit an encroachment, in respect of a highway that is
vested in the municipality under subsection (1) (a).




(12)

This section does not apply to a highway for which the municipality
has purchased or taken the land and for which title is registered in
the name of the municipality.






General authority in relation to highways




36

(1)


In addition to its authority in relation to highways as a service, a
council may, by bylaw, regulate and prohibit in relation to all uses
of or involving a highway or part of a highway.




(2)

The authority of a municipality in relation to highways under any
provision of this Act is subject to the following:




(a)

traffic and parking on highways may only be regulated or prohibited in
accordance with the

Motor Vehicle Act

, except as expressly provided in this Act;




(b)

authority in relation to traffic on Provincial arterial highways is
subject to section 124 (13) of the

Motor Vehicle Act

;




(c)

extraordinary traffic on Provincial arterial highways may only be
regulated or prohibited by bylaw adopted with the approval of the
minister responsible for the

Transportation Act

;




(d)

the restrictions established by the

South Coast British Columbia Transportation Authority Act

;




(e)

authority in relation to all electrical transmission and distribution
facilities and works that are on, over, under, along or across a
highway is subject to the

Utilities Commission Act

and to all orders, certificates and approvals issued, granted or given
under that Act.




(3)

Authority in relation to highways that is provided to a municipality
under this or another Act includes the power to restrict the common
law right of passage by the public over a highway that is vested in
the municipality, if this restriction is necessary to the exercise of
the authority.






Intermunicipal boundary highways




37


In the case of an intermunicipal boundary highway,




(a)

the councils of the applicable municipalities have joint jurisdiction
over the highway,




(b)

unless the councils agree otherwise, the highway must be opened,
maintained, kept in repair and improved by the municipalities, and




(c)

bylaws respecting the highway must be mutually acceptable to those
municipalities or be in accordance with an intermunicipal scheme under
section 14
[intermunicipal service, regulatory and other schemes]
in relation to the highway.






Temporary traffic restriction and traffic control




38

(1)


A council may temporarily restrict or prohibit all or some types of
traffic on a highway.




(2)

In addition to the authority under section 154
[delegation of council authority]
, a council may, by bylaw, authorize a municipal employee or any other
person to control traffic on a highway, or to temporarily restrict or
prohibit all or some types of traffic on a highway, in relation to
matters specified in the bylaw.






Additional powers in relation to highways




39


A council may, by bylaw, do one or more of the following:




(a)

assign a name or number to a highway;




(b)

assign numbers to buildings and other structures;




(c)

require owners or occupiers of real property to place assigned numbers
in a conspicuous place on or near the property;




(d)

require owners of private highways to maintain them in a clean, fit
and safe state and to post suitable private thoroughfare signs;




(e)

require persons to take specified actions for the purposes of
maintaining the cleanliness or safety of a highway that is next to
property that they own or occupy, or that is affected by property that
they own or occupy;




(f)

require owners or occupiers of land to fence any part of it abutting
on a highway.






Permanent closure and removal of highway dedication




40

(1)


A council may, by bylaw,




(a)

close all or part of a highway that is vested in the municipality to
all or some types of traffic, or




(b)

reopen all or part of such a highway that has been closed.




(2)

A council may, by bylaw, remove the dedication of a highway




(a)

that has been closed by a bylaw under subsection (1) (a), or




(b)

that is to be closed by the same bylaw, or by a bylaw adopted by the
council at the same time.




(3)

Before adopting a bylaw under this section, the council must




(a)

give notice of its intention in accordance with section 94
[public notice]
, and




(b)

provide an opportunity for persons who consider they are affected by
the bylaw to make representations to council.




(4)

In addition to the requirement under subsection (3), before adopting a
bylaw under subsection (1) (a), the council must deliver notice of its
intention to the operators of utilities whose transmission or
distribution facilities or works the council considers will be
affected by the closure.




(5)

A bylaw under subsection (2) must be filed in accordance with section
120 of the

Land Title Act

and, on filing, the property subject to the bylaw ceases to be a
highway, its dedication as a highway is cancelled and title to the
property may be registered in the name of the municipality in
accordance with section 120 of the

Land Title Act

.




(6)

As a limit on subsection (2), a council may not remove the dedication
of a highway that was dedicated by the deposit of a subdivision or
reference plan in the land title office if




(a)

the highway has not been developed for its intended purpose, and




(b)

the owner of the land at the time the plan was deposited is the owner
of all of the parcels created by the plan,

unless the owner of the parcels consents.



(7)

This section, and not section 30
[reservation and dedication of municipal property]
, applies to cancelling the dedication of a highway.




(8)

For certainty, this section applies to public highways under section
42 of the

Transportation Act

.






Restrictions in relation to highway disposition, closure or alteration




41

(1)


As a restriction, if




(a)

a bylaw under section 40 (1) (a)
[authority to permanently close]
affects a highway, or part of a highway, that provides access to the
ocean or a lake, river or other stream or watercourse, and




(b)

the municipality is proposing to dispose of the highway or part,


the municipality may only dispose of that highway or part if




(c)

the municipality is exchanging the property for other property that
the council considers will provide public access to the same body of
water that is of at least equal benefit to the public, or




(d)

the proceeds of the disposition are to be paid into a reserve fund,
with the money from the reserve fund used to acquire property that the
council considers will provide public access to the same body of water
that is of at least equal benefit to the public.




(2)

If the effect of




(a)

a proposed highway closure under section 40 (1) (a), or




(b)

a proposed highway alteration


will be to completely deprive an owner of the means of access to their
property, the municipality must either




(c)

obtain the consent of the owner before the owner is deprived of
access, or




(d)

in addition to paying any compensation required under section 33 (2)
[compensation for injurious affection]
, ensure that the owner has another means of access that is sufficient
for this purpose.




(3)

As a restriction on the authority under section 40 (1), if the highway
or part of a highway to be closed or reopened is within 800 metres of
an arterial highway, the bylaw under that section may only be adopted
if it is approved by the minister responsible for the

Transportation Act

.




(4)

The operator of a utility affected by the closure of a highway under
section 40
[permanent closure and removal of highway dedication]
may require the municipality to provide reasonable accommodation of
the utility's affected transmission or distribution facilities or
works on agreed terms.




(5)

If the parties are unable to reach an agreement under subsection (4),
the matters must be settled by arbitration, and for that purpose the

Arbitration Act

applies.






Agreements respecting compensation for extraordinary traffic




42


If a municipal bylaw regulates or prohibits extraordinary traffic on a
highway other than an arterial highway, the council may enter into an
agreement with a person who is subject to the bylaw that provides




(a)

for the payment of reasonable compensation to the municipality for the
damage to the highway or the resulting expense to the municipality
that may be caused by the extraordinary traffic, and




(b)

that, so long as the person is in compliance with the agreement, the
person is not subject to the bylaw, or specified provisions of the
bylaw, in relation to that traffic.






Agreements respecting municipal equipment on utility poles




43

(1)


A council may require a person who is permitted to erect poles on
highways to provide reasonable accommodation on the poles for wires
and equipment of the municipality on agreed terms, and section 174
[limit on borrowing and other liabilities]
does not apply to the agreement.




(2)

If the parties are unable to reach an agreement under subsection (1),
the matters must be settled by arbitration, and for that purpose the

Arbitration Act

applies.






Agreements to reserve land for highway purposes




44


If a council enters into an agreement with an owner of land to reserve
any part of the land for highway purposes, the agreement has the
effect of a restrictive covenant running with the land and must be
registered by the municipality under section 219 of the

Land Title Act

.






Highway construction and dikes




45

(1)


A person must not interfere with the level of a dike that is crossed
by a highway or private road.




(2)

If




(a)

the top of a dike forms a portion of a highway, and




(b)

the council has not granted a diking commission the privilege of using
the existing highway for a dike,


it is the duty of the council to maintain the dike at a constant
level, and to repair all injury directly or indirectly caused to the
dike by its use as a highway.




(3)

For certainty, a council's duty under subsection (2) is limited to the
highway as a highway and, except as otherwise required, does not
extend to or include repair or maintenance of the dike as distinct
from the highway.






Use of highways and public places




46

(1)


Except as permitted by bylaw or another enactment, a person must not
excavate in, cause a nuisance on, obstruct, foul or damage any part of
a highway or other public place.




(2)

A council may, by bylaw,




(a)

authorize the seizure of things unlawfully occupying a portion of a
highway or public place,




(b)

establish fees for such seizure that are payable by the owner of the
thing, and




(c)

provide for the recovery of those fees from the owner of the thing,
including by sale of the thing if the owner refuses to pay or cannot
be identified after reasonable efforts.




(3)

If a thing is seized under subsection (2), by a municipality, neither
the municipality nor a person to whom the thing is disposed of is
liable, in damages or otherwise, for or in respect of any claim that
may arise in respect of the thing after its disposal in accordance
with this Act.




Division 5.1 — Restrictions in Relation to the
Passenger Transportation Act





Definitions




46.1


In this Division:



"passenger directed vehicle"

has the same meaning as in the

Passenger Transportation Act

;



"passenger directed vehicle authorization"

has the same meaning as in the

Passenger Transportation Act

;



"transportation network services authorization"

has the same meaning as in the

Passenger Transportation Act

.






Restrictions on authority to regulate in relation to passenger
directed vehicles




46.2


A council must not, under section 8 (6)
[fundamental powers]
or 15
[licensing and standards authority]
,




(a)

regulate in relation to the number of passenger directed vehicles that
may be operated under passenger directed vehicle authorizations or
transportation network services authorizations, or




(b)

prohibit vehicles referred to in paragraph (a) from operating in the
municipality, including, without limitation, by prohibiting the
issuance of a licence to a person to operate a vehicle referred to in
that paragraph for the sole reason that the person holds a licence,
issued by another municipality, to operate the vehicle.




Division 6 — Animal Control





Classes of animals




47


For certainty and without limiting section 12 (1)
[bylaw variation authority]
, a bylaw under section 8 (3) (k)
[spheres of authority — animals]
may establish different classes of animals on the basis of sex, age,
size or breed.






Seizure and related powers




48


A council may, by bylaw, do one or more of the following:




(a)

provide for the seizure of animals that are




(i)

unlicensed, if there is a requirement that they be licensed,




(ii)

unlawfully at large on a highway or in a public place,




(iii)

straying or trespassing on private property, or




(iv)

on unfenced land and not securely tethered or contained;




(b)

establish penalties to be paid in relation to animals seized under
this section;




(c)

establish or regulate fees to be paid in respect of seizures under
this section;




(d)

provide for the sale, other disposition or destruction of impounded
animals, if




(i)

the animals are not claimed within the time and in the manner
established by the bylaw, or




(ii)

the penalty or fees are not paid within a reasonable time;




(e)

provide for the seizure and destruction of any animal that is subject
to suffering that the council, or a person designated by council,
considers cannot be otherwise reasonably addressed.






Special powers in relation to dangerous dogs




49

(1)


In this section:



"animal control officer"

means




(a)

a municipal employee, officer or agent designated by the council as an
animal control officer for the purposes of this section, or




(b)

a peace officer;



"dangerous dog"

means a dog that




(a)

has killed or seriously injured a person,




(b)

has killed or seriously injured a domestic animal, while in a public
place or while on private property, other than property owned or
occupied by the person responsible for the dog, or




(c)

an animal control officer has reasonable grounds to believe is likely
to kill or seriously injure a person.




(2)

In addition to the authority under section 48 but subject to this
section, an animal control officer may seize a dog if the officer
believes on reasonable grounds that the animal is a dangerous dog.




(3)

Before exercising a power under subsection (2), in the case of a dog
that has acted as described in paragraph (a) or (b) of the definition
of "dangerous dog", the animal control officer must consider whether
the dog was acting while in the course of




(a)

attempting to prevent a person from committing an unlawful act, or




(b)

performing law enforcement work.




(4)

An animal control officer may enter a place to exercise the power
under subsection (2),




(a)

in any case, with the consent of the owner or occupier of the place,




(b)

in any case, in accordance with a warrant under subsection (5) or (6),
or




(c)

if the circumstances referred to in subsection (8) apply, in
accordance with that subsection.




(5)

If satisfied by evidence given under oath or affirmation that there
are reasonable grounds to believe that there is a dangerous dog in a
place, a justice may, by warrant, authorize an animal control officer
to enter and search the place and to seize the dog.




(6)

If




(a)

it is impracticable for an animal control officer to appear personally
before a justice to apply for a warrant in accordance with subsection
(5), and




(b)

the officer believes on reasonable grounds that there is a dangerous
dog in a place,


the officer may apply for a warrant in accordance with the regulations
under subsection (7).




(7)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations respecting the
authority and procedure for warrants under subsection (6).




(8)

Subject to subsection (9), an animal control officer may, without a
warrant, enter and search any place, except a place that is occupied
as a private dwelling, and seize a dog, if the officer believes on
reasonable grounds that




(a)

the dog is a dangerous dog,




(b)

the dog presents an imminent danger to the public, and




(c)

the purpose of seizing the dog cannot reasonably be accomplished if
the officer is required to obtain a warrant.




(9)

For the purposes of subsection (8), an animal control officer who is
not a police officer must be accompanied by a police officer.




(10)

In addition to any other authority, if an animal control officer has
reasonable grounds to believe that a dog is a dangerous dog, the
officer may apply to the Provincial Court for an order that the dog be
destroyed in the manner specified in the order.




(11)

A dog that has been seized under this section may not be impounded and
detained for more than 21 days unless court proceedings for a
destruction order are commenced within that time.




Division 7 — Authority in Relation to Trees





Restrictions in relation to authority




50

(1)


A bylaw under section 8 (3) (c)
[spheres of authority — trees]
that is in relation to the protection of trees does not apply to the
following:




(a)

land and the trees on it if forestry practices on the land are
governed by a tree farm licence, permit or other authority or tenure
under the

Forest Act

;




(b)

land and trees on it if section 21 of the

Private Managed Forest Land Act

applies to the land;




(c)

tree cutting or removal that is undertaken by a utility, on land owned
or held by the utility, and done for the purpose of safety,
maintenance or operation of the utility's infrastructure.




(2)

Subject to subsection (3), if a bylaw under section 8 (3) (c) would
have the effect on a parcel of land of




(a)

preventing all uses permitted under the applicable zoning bylaw, or




(b)

preventing the development to the density permitted under the
applicable zoning bylaw,


the bylaw does not apply to the parcel to the extent necessary to
allow a permitted use or the permitted density.




(3)

A bylaw referred to in subsection (2) applies without limit to a
parcel if the council, by resolution, commits the municipality to




(a)

pay compensation to the owner of the parcel for any reduction in the
market value caused by the prohibition, or




(b)

provide, by development permit, development variance permit or
otherwise, alternative means for the parcel to be used for a permitted
use or developed to the permitted density.




(4)

For the purposes of subsection (3),




(a)

the compensation must be as determined and paid as soon as reasonably
possible in an amount set by agreement between the owner and the
municipality or, if no agreement is reached, by the Supreme Court, and




(b)

the council may issue a development permit or development variance
permit on its own initiative without an application from the owner.






Compensation not payable




51


Except as provided in section 50 (3), no compensation is payable to
any person for a reduction in the value of any interest in land that
results from




(a)

a bylaw under section 8 (3) (c)
[spheres of authority — trees]
, or




(b)

the issue or refusal of a permit required under such a bylaw.






Right to reconsideration by council




52


If a council delegates powers, duties or functions in relation to its
authority under section 8 (3) (c)
[spheres of authority — trees]
, the owner or occupier of real property that is subject to a decision
of a delegate is entitled to have the council reconsider the matter.




Division 8 — Building Regulation





General authority in relation to buildings and other structures




53

(1)


In this section,
"greenhouse gas"
has the same meaning as in the

Climate Change Accountability Act

.




(2)

A council may only exercise its authority under section 8 (3) (l)
[spheres of authority — buildings and other structures]
or this Division for the following:




(a)

the provision of access to a building or other structure, or to part
of a building or other structure, for a person with disabilities;




(b)

the conservation of energy or water;




(c)

the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions;




(d)

the health, safety or protection of persons or property.






Building permits and occupancy permits




54

(1)


If requested by an applicant, a building inspector must give written
reasons for the building inspector's refusal to issue a building
permit that is required by a bylaw under section 8 (3) (l)

[spheres of authority — buildings and other structures]

.




(2)

If a municipal permit is required before a building or part of a
building is occupied, in addition to any conditions established under
section 15
[licensing and standards authority]
, the permit may be withheld until the building or part of it complies
with the following:




(a)

the Provincial building regulations;




(b)

bylaws under section 8 (3) (l)
[spheres of authority — buildings and other structures]
;




(c)

any other health and safety requirements established by bylaw;




(d)

any other federal or Provincial enactment in relation to health or
safety.






Requirement for professional certification




55

(1)


In this section,
"qualified professional"
means




(a)

an architect,




(b)

an architect certified under section 24 (2) (q.2) of the

Architects Act

as a specialist in an area of architecture,




(c)

a professional engineer,




(d)

a professional engineer who is a specialist under the

Professional Governance Act

in an area of professional engineering,




(e)

a professional geoscientist, or




(f)

a professional geoscientist who is a specialist under the

Professional Governance Act

in an area of professional geoscience.




(2)

A council may, by bylaw, do one or both of the following:




(a)

require applicants for building permits, in circumstances as specified
in the bylaw that relate to




(i)

site conditions,




(ii)

the size or complexity of developments, or




(iii)

aspects of developments,


to provide the municipality with a certification by a qualified
professional that the plans submitted with the permit application, or
specified aspects of those plans, comply with the then current
Provincial building regulations and other applicable enactments
respecting safety;




(b)

authorize building inspectors for the municipality to require
applicants for building permits to provide the municipality with a
certification referred to in paragraph (a) if a building inspector
considers that this is warranted by circumstances that relate to
matters referred to in paragraph (a) (i) to (iii).






Requirement for geotechnical report




56

(1)


For the purposes of this section:



"construction"

means




(a)

the new construction of a building or other structure, or




(b)

the structural alteration of or addition to an existing building or
other structure,


but does not include the repair of an existing building or other
structure;



"qualified professional"

means




(a)

a professional engineer, or




(b)

a professional geoscientist


with experience or training in geotechnical study and geohazard
assessments.




(2)

If




(a)

a bylaw regulating the construction of buildings or other structures
is in effect, and




(b)

a building inspector considers that construction would be on land that
is subject to or is likely to be subject to flooding, mud flows,
debris flows, debris torrents, erosion, land slip, rockfalls,
subsidence or avalanche,


the building inspector may require the owner of land to provide the
building inspector with a report certified by a qualified professional
that the land may be used safely for the use intended.




(3)

If a qualified professional determines that the land may not be used
safely for the use intended, a building inspector must not issue a
building permit.




(4)

A building inspector may issue a building permit in accordance with
subsection (5) if a qualified professional certifies that the land may
be used safely for the use intended if the land is used in accordance
with the conditions specified in the professional's report.




(5)

A building permit under subsection (4) may only be issued on the
following conditions:




(a)

the owner of the land covenants with the municipality to use the land
only in the manner certified by the qualified professional as enabling
the safe use of the land for the use intended;




(b)

the covenant contains conditions respecting reimbursement by the owner
for any expenses that may be incurred by the municipality as a result
of a breach of a covenant under paragraph (a);




(c)

the covenant is registered under section 219 of the

Land Title Act

.




(6)

If a building inspector is authorized to issue a building permit under
subsection (4) but refuses to do so, the council may, on application
of the owner, direct the building inspector to issue the building
permit subject to the requirements of subsection (5).






Note against land title that building regulations contravened




57

(1)


A building inspector may recommend to the council that it consider a
resolution under subsection (3) if, during the course of carrying out
duties, the building inspector




(a)

observes a condition, with respect to land or a building or other
structure, that the inspector considers




(i)

results from the contravention of, or is in contravention of,




(A)

a municipal bylaw,




(B)

a Provincial building regulation, or




(C)

any other enactment


that relates to the construction or safety of buildings or other
structures, and




(ii)

that, as a result of the condition, a building or other structure is
unsafe or is unlikely to be usable for its expected purpose during its
normal lifetime, or




(b)

discovers that




(i)

something was done with respect to a building or other structure, or
the construction of a building or other structure, that required a
permit or an inspection under a bylaw, regulation or enactment
referred to in paragraph (a) (i), and




(ii)

the permit was not obtained or the inspection not satisfactorily
completed.




(2)

A recommendation under subsection (1) must be given in writing to the
corporate officer, who must




(a)

give notice to the registered owner of the land to which the
recommendation relates, and




(b)

after notice under paragraph (a), place the matter before the council.




(3)

After providing the building inspector and the owner an opportunity to
be heard, the council may confirm the recommendations of the building
inspector and pass a resolution directing the corporate officer to
file a notice in the land title office stating that




(a)

a resolution relating to that land has been made under this section,
and




(b)

further information about it may be inspected at the municipal hall.




(4)

The corporate officer must ensure that all records are available for
the purpose of subsection (3) (b).




(5)

If the registrar of land titles receives a notice under subsection (3)
and payment of the prescribed fee, the registrar must make a note of
the filing against the title to the land that is affected by the
notice.




(6)

The note of a filing of a notice under this section is extinguished
when a new title to the land is issued as a result of the deposit of a
plan of subdivision or a strata plan.




(7)

In the event of any omission, mistake or misfeasance by the registrar
or an employee of the registrar in relation to the making of a note of
the filing under subsection (5), or a cancellation under section 58,
after the notice is received by the land title office,




(a)

the registrar is not liable and neither the Provincial government nor
the Land Title and Survey Authority of British Columbia is liable
vicariously,




(a.1)

the assurance fund or the Land Title and Survey Authority of British
Columbia as a nominal defendant is not liable under Part 19.1 of the

Land Title Act

, and




(b)

the assurance fund or the minister charged with the administration of
the

Land Title Act

as a nominal defendant is not liable under Part 20 of the

Land Title Act

.




(8)

Neither the building inspector nor the municipality is liable for
damage of any kind for the doing of anything, or the failure to do
anything, under this section or section 58 that would have, but for
this subsection, constituted a breach of duty to any person.




(9)

The authority under this section is in addition to any other action
that a building inspector is authorized to take in respect of a matter
referred to in subsection (1).






Cancellation of note against land title




58

(1)


On receiving a report from a building inspector that the condition
that gave rise to the filing of the notice under section 57 (3) has
been rectified, the corporate officer must file a cancellation notice
and, on receiving the notice, the registrar of land titles must cancel
the note against the title to which it relates.




(2)

An owner of land with respect to which a notice has been filed under
section 57 (3), may apply to the council for a resolution that the
note be cancelled.




(3)

After hearing an applicant under subsection (2), the council may pass
a resolution directing the corporate officer to file a cancellation
notice.




(4)

If a resolution has been passed under subsection (3), the corporate
officer must file a cancellation notice in the land title office and,
on receiving the notice, the registrar of land titles must cancel the
note against the title to which it relates.




(5)

If the council does not pass a resolution under subsection (3), the
owner may apply to the Supreme Court and notify the municipality to
attend before the court to show cause why the note should not be
cancelled.




(6)

On an application under subsection (5), after reviewing any evidence
that the owner and the municipality may adduce, the court may make an
order directing the registrar to cancel the note made under section 57
(5) and, on receiving the order, the registrar of land titles must
cancel the note accordingly.




Division 9 — Business Regulation





Powers to require and prohibit




59

(1)


A council may, by bylaw, do one or more of the following:




(a)

require operators of premises in which rooms or suites are let for
living purposes to maintain, in accordance with the bylaw, a register
of persons living there;




(b)

in relation to persons engaged in the business activity of purchasing,
taking in barter or receiving used or second hand goods,




(i)

require such persons, after purchasing, taking in or receiving used or
second hand goods, to notify the chief constable who has jurisdiction
in the municipality within the time period established by the bylaw,
and




(ii)

prohibit such persons from altering the form of, selling, exchanging
or otherwise disposing of those goods during the time period
established by the bylaw;




(c)

require manufacturers and processors to dispose of the waste from
their plants in the manner directed by the bylaw;




(d)

prohibit the operation of a public show, exhibition, carnival or
performance of any kind or in any particular location;




(e)

prohibit the operation of places of amusement to which the public has
access, including halls and other buildings where public events are
held;




(f)

prohibit professional boxing, professional wrestling and other
professional athletic contests.




(2)

Before adopting a bylaw under subsection (1) or section 8 (6)
[business regulation]
, a council must




(a)

give notice of its intention in accordance with subsection (3), and




(b)

provide an opportunity for persons who consider they are affected by
the bylaw to make representations to council.




(3)

Notice required under subsection (2) (a) may be provided in the form
and manner, at the times and as often as the council considers
reasonable.






Business licence authority




60

(1)


An application for a business licence may be refused in any specific
case, but




(a)

the application must not be unreasonably refused, and




(b)

on request, the person or body making the decision must give written
reasons for the refusal.




(2)

In addition to the authority under section 15 (1) (e)

[licences, permits and approvals — suspension and cancellation]

, a business licence may be suspended or cancelled for reasonable
cause.




(3)

Before suspending or cancelling a business licence, the council must
give the licence holder notice of the proposed action and an
opportunity to be heard.




(4)

Despite section 155 (2) (b)
[restriction on delegation of hearings]
, a council may, by bylaw under section 154
[delegation of council authority]
, authorize a municipal officer or employee to suspend or cancel a
business licence.




(5)

If a municipal officer or employee exercises authority to grant,
refuse, suspend or cancel a business licence, the applicant or licence
holder who is subject to the decision is entitled to have the council
reconsider the matter.






Restriction on authority to require examination or certification




61


A provision in a bylaw under section 8 (6)
[spheres of authority — business]
that requires an examination or certification of a person engaged in a
trade or occupation does not apply to a person who has been granted a
certificate or other evidence of competence for that trade or
occupation under a Provincial or federal Act.




Division 10 — Other Spheres





Public place powers




62


The authority under section 8 (3) (b)
[spheres of authority — public places]
includes the authority in relation to persons, property, things and
activities that are in, on or near public places.






Protection of persons and property




63


The authority of a council under section 8 (3) (g)
[spheres of authority — protection of persons and property]
may be exercised in relation to the following:




(a)

emergency exits in places to which the public is invited;




(b)

smoke alarms;




(c)

any matter within the scope of the

Fire Services Act

;




(d)

the enclosure of swimming pools and other pools;




(e)

trailer courts, manufactured home parks and camping grounds;




(f)

rental units and residential property, as those are defined in the

Residential Tenancy Act

, that are subject to a tenancy agreement, as defined in that Act.






Nuisances, disturbances and other objectionable situations




64


The authority of a council under section 8 (3) (h)

[spheres of authority — nuisances disturbances and other
objectionable situations]

may be exercised in relation to the following:




(a)

nuisances;




(b)

noise, vibration, odour, dust, illumination or any other matter that
is liable to disturb the quiet, peace, rest, enjoyment, comfort or
convenience of individuals or the public;




(c)

the emission of smoke, dust, gas, sparks, ash, soot, cinders, fumes or
other effluvia that is liable to foul or contaminate the atmosphere;




(d)

refuse, garbage or other material that is noxious, offensive or
unwholesome;




(e)

the use of waste disposal and recycling services;




(f)

the accumulation of water on property;




(g)

unsanitary conditions on property;




(h)

drains, cesspools, septic tanks and outhouses;




(i)

trees, weeds or other growths that council considers should be
removed, cut down or trimmed;




(j)

the carrying on of a noxious or offensive business activity;




(k)

graffiti and unsightly conditions on property;




(l)

indecency and profane, blasphemous or grossly insulting language.






Signs and other advertising




65


The authority of a council under section 8 (4)
[spheres of authority — signs and other advertising]
may be exercised in relation to the erection, placing, alteration,
maintenance, demolition and removal of signs, sign boards,
advertisements, advertising devices and structures.




Division 11 — Other Powers





Fire chief powers




66

(1)


A council may, by bylaw, authorize the municipal fire chief or another
person designated in the bylaw to exercise one or more of the
following powers:




(a)

enter on property and inspect premises for conditions that may cause a
fire, increase the danger of a fire or increase the danger to persons
or property from a fire;




(b)

take measures to prevent and suppress fires, including the demolition
of buildings and other structures to prevent the spreading of fire;




(c)

require an owner or occupier of real property to undertake any actions
directed by the fire chief or other authorized person for the purpose
of removing or reducing any thing or condition that person considers
is a fire hazard or increases the danger of fire;




(d)

exercise some or all of the powers of the fire commissioner under
section 25 of the

Fire Services Act

, and for these purposes that section applies.




(2)

If a bylaw under subsection (1) confers authority on the municipal
fire chief, that authority may be exercised by a person acting under
the authority of the fire chief.






Disposal of property in police possession




67

(1)


Property that has come into the custody and possession of the police
force or police department on behalf of a municipality may be disposed
of and the proceeds from that disposal dealt with in accordance with
the regulations under this Act, if




(a)

the owner of the property has not been identified after reasonable
effort, and




(b)

a court of competent jurisdiction has not made an order in respect of
the property.




(2)

A person who receives or purchases property by a disposal under this
section has a good and sufficient title to that article as against any
former owner of it.




(3)

The municipality, a member of the council, a person in lawful custody
of property referred to in subsection (1), or an officer, employee or
agent of the municipality, is not liable, in damages or otherwise, for
or in respect of any claim that may arise in respect of the property
after its disposal in accordance with this section.






Restriction on authority to fluoridate




68


A council must not fluoridate a water supply for the municipality
unless it has adopted a bylaw for this and the bylaw has received the
assent of the electors.






Specific authority in relation to drainage, sewage and dikes




69


A council may, by bylaw, do one or more of the following:




(a)

in relation to drainage and sewerage works provided by persons other
than the municipality,




(i)

regulate their design and installation, and




(ii)

require property owners to connect their buildings and structures to
the works in the manner specified in the bylaw;




(b)

impose requirements on persons undertaking the construction of works
to




(i)

maintain the proper flow of water in a stream, ditch, drain or sewer
in the municipality, or




(ii)

reclaim or protect part of the land mass of the municipality from
erosion by any cause;




(c)

impose requirements on the owners of dikes or persons undertaking the
construction of dikes;




(d)

make a watercourse part of the municipal drainage system, whether the
watercourse is on municipal land, private land or a highway.






Drainage control




70

(1)


This section applies if a council




(a)

considers that, in the public interest,




(i)

the drainage of surface water from outside the municipality into or
through an area inside the municipality should be prevented, diverted
or improved, or




(ii)

drainage of or from an area in the municipality should be prevented,
continued beyond the municipality, diverted or improved, and




(b)

proposes to undertake works for these purposes.




(2)

Before undertaking the proposed works, the council must




(a)

serve notice of its intention on all owners of land that may be
affected,




(b)

give notice of its intention to any other local government whose area
may be affected, and




(c)

provide an opportunity for persons who consider they are affected by
the works to make representations to council.




(3)

After complying with subsection (2), the municipality may enter on
property, including property outside the municipality, for the purpose
of undertaking the proposed works.






Orders and awards respecting drainage or reclamation works




71

(1)


This section applies if, on account of proceedings taken under this
Act or the

Local Government Act

for drainage or reclamation works and local assessments for them,




(a)

damages are recovered against the municipality or parties constructing
the drainage or reclamation works, or




(b)

other relief is given by an order of a court or an award made under
this Act or the

Local Government Act

.




(2)

In the circumstances referred to in subsection (1),




(a)

the council must make the changes in drainage or reclamation works
necessary to comply with an order or award, and




(b)

the money required for the municipality to comply with the order or
award must be recovered by taxes imposed on the same basis as the
existing assessments for those works.




Division 12 — Remedial Action Requirements





Council may impose remedial action requirements




72

(1)


A council may impose remedial action requirements in relation to




(a)

matters or things referred to in section 73
[hazardous conditions]
,




(b)

matters or things referred to in section 74
[declared nuisances]
, or




(c)

circumstances referred to in section 75
[harm to drainage or dike]
.




(2)

In the case of matters or things referred to in section 73 or 74, a
remedial action requirement




(a)

may be imposed on one or more of




(i)

the owner or lessee of the matter or thing, and




(ii)

the owner or occupier of the land on which it is located, and




(b)

may require the person to




(i)

remove or demolish the matter or thing,




(ii)

fill it in, cover it over or alter it,




(iii)

bring it up to a standard specified by bylaw, or




(iv)

otherwise deal with it in accordance with the directions of council or
a person authorized by council.




(3)

In the case of circumstances referred to in section 75, a remedial
action requirement




(a)

may be imposed on the person referred to in that section, and




(b)

may require the person to undertake restoration work in accordance
with the directions of council or a person authorized by council.






Hazardous conditions




73

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), a council may impose a remedial action
requirement in relation to any of the following:




(a)

a building or other structure, an erection of any kind, or a similar
matter or thing;




(b)

a natural or artificial opening in the ground, or a similar matter or
thing;




(c)

a tree;




(d)

wires, cables, or similar matters or things, that are on, in, over,
under or along a highway;




(e)

matters or things that are attached to a structure, erection or other
matter or thing referred to in paragraph (a) that is on, in, over,
under or along a highway.




(2)

A council may only impose the remedial action requirement if




(a)

the council considers that the matter or thing is in or creates an
unsafe condition, or




(b)

the matter or thing contravenes the Provincial building regulations or
a bylaw under section 8 (3) (l)
[spheres of authority — buildings and other structures]
or Division 8
[Building Regulation]
of this Part.






Declared nuisances




74

(1)


A council may declare that any of the following is a nuisance and may
impose a remedial action requirement in relation to the declared
nuisance:




(a)

a building or other structure, an erection of any kind, or a similar
matter or thing;




(b)

a natural or artificial opening in the ground, or a similar matter or
thing;




(c)

a drain, ditch, watercourse, pond, surface water, or a similar matter
or thing;




(d)

a matter or thing that is in or about any matter or thing referred to
in paragraphs (a) to (c).




(2)

Subsection (1) also applies in relation to a thing that council
considers is so dilapidated or unclean as to be offensive to the
community.






Harm to drainage or dike




75


A council may impose a remedial action requirement if a person has




(a)

obstructed, filled up or damaged a ditch, drain, creek or watercourse
that was constructed or improved under this Act or the

Local Government Act

, or




(b)

damaged or destroyed a dike or other drainage or reclamation work
connected with it.






Time limit for compliance




76

(1)


The resolution imposing a remedial action requirement must specify the
time by which the required action must be completed.




(2)

Subject to section 79
[shorter time limits in urgent circumstances]
, the time specified under subsection (1) must not be earlier than 30
days after notice under section 77 (1)
[notice to affected persons]
is sent to the person subject to the remedial action requirement.




(3)

The council may extend the time for completing the required action
even though the time limit previously established has expired.






Notice to affected persons




77

(1)


Notice of a remedial action requirement must be given by personal
service or by registered mail to




(a)

the person subject to the requirement, and




(b)

the owner of the land where the required action is to be carried out.




(2)

In addition, notice of the remedial action requirement must be mailed
to




(a)

each holder of a registered charge in relation to the property whose
name is included on the assessment roll, at the address set out in
that assessment roll and to any later address known to the corporate
officer, and




(b)

any other person who is an occupier of that land.




(3)

A notice under this section must advise




(a)

that the person subject to the requirement, or the owner of the land
where the required action is to be carried out, may request a
reconsideration by council in accordance with section 78
[person affected may request reconsideration]
, and




(b)

that, if the action required by the remedial action requirement is not
completed by the date specified for compliance, the municipality may
take action in accordance with section 17
[municipal action at defaulter's expense]
at the expense of the person subject to the requirement.






Person affected may request reconsideration by council




78

(1)


A person who is required to be given notice under section 77 (1)
[notice to affected persons]
may request that the council reconsider the remedial action
requirement.




(2)

Subject to section 79
[shorter time limits in urgent circumstances]
, a request under subsection (1) must be made by written notice
provided within 14 days of the date on which the notice under section
77 (1) was sent or a longer period permitted by council.




(3)

If the council receives a notice that complies with subsection (2), it
must provide the person with an opportunity to make representations to
the council.




(4)

After providing the opportunity referred to in subsection (3), the
council may confirm, amend or cancel the remedial action requirement.




(5)

Notice of a decision under subsection (4) must be provided in
accordance with section 77 (1) and (2)
[notice to affected persons]
.






Shorter time limits in urgent circumstances




79


If the council considers that there is a significant risk to health or
safety if action is not taken earlier, the resolution imposing the
remedial action requirement may




(a)

set a time limit under section 76
[time limit for compliance]
that is shorter than the minimum otherwise applicable under subsection
(2) of that section, and




(b)

set a time limit for giving notice under section 78
[persons affected may request reconsideration]
that is shorter than the limit otherwise applicable under subsection
(2) of that section.






Recovery of municipal costs through sale of property




80

(1)


This section applies to remedial action requirements in relation to
the following:




(a)

matters or things referred to in section 73 (1) (a)
[unsafe and non-complying structures]
;




(b)

matters or things referred to in section 74 (1) (a)
[nuisances in relation to structures]
;




(c)

matters or things referred to in section 74 (1) (d)
[nuisances in relation to things in or near structures]
that are in or about a matter or thing referred to in section 74 (1)
(a).




(2)

Subject to this section, if a remedial action requirement has not been
satisfied by the date specified for compliance, the municipality may
sell the matter or thing in relation to which the requirement was
imposed or any part or material of it.




(3)

The earliest date on which the municipality may sell property referred
to in subsection (2) is the later of




(a)

the date specified for compliance, and




(b)

60 days after the notice under section 77 (1)
[notice to affected persons]
is given.




(4)

If a municipality sells property under this section, it




(a)

may retain from the proceeds




(i)

the costs incurred by the municipality in carrying out the sale, and




(ii)

if applicable, the costs incurred by the municipality in exercising
its power under section 17
[municipal actions at defaulter's expense]
that have not yet been paid by the person subject to the requirement,
and




(b)

must pay the remainder of the proceeds to the owner or other person
lawfully entitled.




(5)

For certainty, the authority under this section is in addition to that
provided by section 17
[municipal action at defaulter's expense]
.




Part 4 — Public Participation and Council Accountability



Division 1 — Elections, Petitions and Community Opinion





Election proceedings




81

(1)


A general local election for the mayor and all councillors of each
municipality must be held in the year 2014 and in every fourth year
after that.




(2)

By-elections for office on municipal council must be held as required
under section 54
[by-elections]
of the

Local Government Act

.




(3)

General local elections and by-elections must be held in accordance
with Part 3
[Electors and Elections]
of the

Local Government Act

.






Petitions to council




82

(1)


A petition to a council is deemed to be presented to council when it
is filed with the corporate officer.




(2)

A petition to a council must include the full name and residential
address of each petitioner.






Council may seek community opinion




83

(1)


A council may seek community opinion on a question that the council
believes affects the municipality, by voting or any other process the
council considers appropriate.




(2)

The results of a process under this section are not binding on the
council.




Division 2 — Approval of the Electors





Approval of the electors




84


If approval of the electors is required under this Act or the

Local Government Act

in relation to a proposed bylaw, agreement or other matter, that
approval may be obtained either by




(a)

assent of the electors in accordance with section 85, or




(b)

approval of the electors by alternative approval process in accordance
with section 86.






Assent of the electors




85

(1)


If assent of the electors is required or authorized under this Act or
the

Local Government Act

in relation to a proposed bylaw, agreement or other matter, that
assent is obtained only if a majority of the votes counted as valid
are in favour of the bylaw or question.




(2)

Part 4
[Assent Voting]
of the

Local Government Act

applies to obtaining the assent of the electors.






Alternative approval process




86

(1)


Approval of the electors by alternative approval process under this
section is obtained if




(a)

notice of the approval process is published in accordance with
subsection (2),




(b)

through elector response forms established under subsection (3),
electors are provided with an opportunity to indicate that council may
not proceed with the bylaw, agreement or other matter unless it is
approved by assent of the electors, and




(c)

at the end of the time for receiving elector responses, as established
under subsection (3), the number of elector responses received is less
than 10% of the number of electors of the area to which the approval
process applies.




(2)

Notice of an alternative approval process must be published in
accordance with section 94
[public notice]
and must include the following:




(a)

a general description of the proposed bylaw, agreement or other matter
to which the approval process relates;




(b)

a description of the area to which the approval process applies;




(c)

the deadline for elector responses in relation to the approval
process;




(d)

a statement that the council may proceed with the matter unless, by
the deadline, at least 10% of the electors of the area indicate that
the council must obtain the assent of the electors before proceeding;




(e)

a statement that




(i)

elector responses must be given in the form established by the
council,




(ii)

elector response forms are available at the municipal hall, and




(iii)

the only persons entitled to sign the forms are the electors of the
area to which the approval process applies;




(f)

the number of elector responses required to prevent the council from
proceeding without the assent of the electors, determined in
accordance with subsection (3);




(g)

other information required by regulation to be included.




(3)

For each alternative approval process, the council must




(a)

establish the deadline for receiving elector responses, which must be
at least 30 days after the second publication of the notice under
subsection (2),




(b)

establish elector response forms, which




(i)

may be designed to allow for only a single elector response on each
form or for multiple elector responses, and




(ii)

must be available to the public at the municipal hall from the time of
first publication until the deadline, and




(c)

make a fair determination of the total number of electors of the area
to which the approval process applies.




(3.1)

If the notice under subsection (2) is published in accordance with a
bylaw adopted under section 94.2
[bylaw to provide for alternative means of publication]
, the second publication is considered to occur on the date when the
notice has been published by 2 of the means of publication specified
in the bylaw.




(4)

The council must make available to the public, on request, a report
respecting the basis on which the determination under subsection (3)
(c) was made.




(5)

For the purposes of this section, the electors of the area to which an
alternative approval process applies are the persons who would meet
the qualifications referred to in section 172 (1) (a)
[who may vote at assent voting]
of the

Local Government Act

if assent of the electors were sought in respect of the matter.




(6)

Elector responses may be made on an elector response form obtained
under subsection (3) or on an accurate copy of the form.




(7)

For an elector's response to be considered for the purposes of this
section, the elector must




(a)

sign an elector response form that includes




(i)

the person's full name and residential address, and




(ii)

if applicable, the address of the property in relation to which the
person is entitled to register as a non-resident property elector, and




(b)

submit the elector response form to the corporate officer before the
deadline established for the alternative approval process.




(8)

After the deadline for an alternative approval process has passed, the
corporate officer must determine and certify, on the basis of the
elector response forms received before that deadline, whether elector
approval in accordance with this section has been obtained.




(9)

A determination under subsection (8) is final and conclusive.




(10)

A person must not sign more than one elector response form in relation
to the same alternative approval process, and a person who is not an
elector for the area of the approval process must not sign an elector
response form.






Matters requiring approval or assent may be combined




87

(1)


If two or more related matters require approval of the electors or
assent of the electors, instead of seeking that approval or assent in
relation to each matter, the council may seek the approval or assent
in relation to the related matters as if they were a single matter.




(2)

As a restriction, if any of the related matters referred to in
subsection (1) requires the assent of the electors, approval of the
electors under that subsection may only be obtained by assent of the
electors.






Agreements requiring approval or assent




88

(1)


If an agreement is in relation to a matter that requires approval of
the electors or assent of the electors, the requirement also applies
to an amendment to the agreement in relation to that matter.




(2)

As an exception, subsection (1) does not apply if the amendment is
authorized by regulation or is made with the approval of the minister.




Division 3 — Open Meetings





General rule that meetings must be open to the public




89

(1)


A meeting of a council must be open to the public, except as provided
in this Division.




(2)

A council must not vote on the reading or adoption of a bylaw when its
meeting is closed to the public.






Meetings that may or must be closed to the public




90

(1)


A part of a council meeting may be closed to the public if the subject
matter being considered relates to or is one or more of the following:




(a)

personal information about an identifiable individual who holds or is
being considered for a position as an officer, employee or agent of
the municipality or another position appointed by the municipality;




(b)

personal information about an identifiable individual who is being
considered for a municipal award or honour, or who has offered to
provide a gift to the municipality on condition of anonymity;




(c)

labour relations or other employee relations;




(d)

the security of the property of the municipality;




(e)

the acquisition, disposition or expropriation of land or improvements,
if the council considers that disclosure could reasonably be expected
to harm the interests of the municipality;




(f)

law enforcement, if the council considers that disclosure could
reasonably be expected to harm the conduct of an investigation under
or enforcement of an enactment;




(g)

litigation or potential litigation affecting the municipality;




(h)

an administrative tribunal hearing or potential administrative
tribunal hearing affecting the municipality, other than a hearing to
be conducted by the council or a delegate of council;




(i)

the receipt of advice that is subject to solicitor-client privilege,
including communications necessary for that purpose;




(j)

information that is prohibited, or information that if it were
presented in a document would be prohibited, from disclosure under
section 21 of the

Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act

;




(k)

negotiations and related discussions respecting the proposed provision
of a municipal service that are at their preliminary stages and that,
in the view of the council, could reasonably be expected to harm the
interests of the municipality if they were held in public;




(l)

discussions with municipal officers and employees respecting municipal
objectives, measures and progress reports for the purposes of
preparing an annual report under section 98
[annual municipal report]
;




(m)

a matter that, under another enactment, is such that the public may be
excluded from the meeting;




(n)

the consideration of whether a council meeting should be closed under
a provision of this subsection or subsection (2);




(o)

the consideration of whether the authority under section 91
[other persons attending closed meetings]
should be exercised in relation to a council meeting.




(2)

A part of a council meeting must be closed to the public if the
subject matter being considered relates to one or more of the
following:




(a)

a request under the

Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act

, if the council is designated as head of the local public body for
the purposes of that Act in relation to the matter;




(b)

the consideration of information received and held in confidence
relating to negotiations between the municipality and a provincial
government or the federal government or both, or between a provincial
government or the federal government or both and a third party;




(c)

a matter that is being investigated under the

Ombudsperson Act

of which the municipality has been notified under section 14
[Ombudsperson to notify authority]
of that Act;




(d)

a matter that, under another enactment, is such that the public must
be excluded from the meeting.




(e)

[Repealed 2022-15-2.]




(3)

If the only subject matter being considered at a council meeting is
one or more matters referred to in subsection (1) or (2), the
applicable subsection applies to the entire meeting.






Other persons attending closed meetings




91

(1)


If all or part of a meeting is closed to the public, the council may
allow one or more municipal officers and employees to attend or
exclude them from attending, as it considers appropriate.




(2)

If all or part of a meeting is closed to the public, the council may
allow a person other than municipal officers and employees to attend,




(a)

in the case of a meeting that must be closed under section 90 (2), if
the council considers this necessary and the person




(i)

already has knowledge of the confidential information, or




(ii)

is a lawyer attending to provide legal advice in relation to the
matter, and




(b)

in other cases, if the council considers this necessary.




(3)

The minutes of a meeting or part of a meeting that is closed to the
public must record the names of all persons in attendance.






Requirements before meeting is closed




92


Before holding a meeting or part of a meeting that is to be closed to
the public, a council must state, by resolution passed in a public
meeting,




(a)

the fact that the meeting or part is to be closed, and




(b)

the basis under the applicable subsection of section 90 on which the
meeting or part is to be closed.






Application of rules to other bodies




93


In addition to its application to council meetings, this Division and
section 133
[expulsion from meetings]
also applies to meetings of the following:




(a)

council committees;




(b)

a commission established by a council under section 143;




(c)

a parcel tax roll review panel;




(d)

a board of variance established by a local government under Division
15 of Part 14 of the

Local Government Act

;




(e)

an advisory body established by a council;




(f)

a body that under this or another Act may exercise the powers of a
municipality or council;




(g)

a body prescribed by regulation.




Division 4 — Public Notice and Access to Records





Requirements for public notice




94

(1)


If this or another Act requires notice to be given or published in
accordance with this section, the notice must be published




(a)

in accordance with section 94.1 or 94.2, as applicable, and




(b)

by posting the notice in the public notice posting places.




(2)

If a matter is subject to 2 or more requirements for publication in
accordance with this section, the notices may be combined so long as
the requirements of all applicable provisions are met.




(3)

A council may provide any additional notice respecting a matter that
it considers appropriate, including by the internet or other
electronic means.






Default publication requirements




94.1

(1)


Unless a council has adopted a bylaw under section 94.2, and subject
to subsection (3) of this section, a notice must be published




(a)

in a newspaper that is distributed at least weekly




(i)

in the area affected by the subject matter of the notice, and




(ii)

if the area affected is not in the municipality, also in the
municipality, and




(b)

unless this or another Act provides otherwise, once each week for 2
consecutive weeks.




(2)

The obligation under subsection (1) may be met by publication of the
notice in more than one newspaper, if this is in accordance with that
subsection when the publications are considered together.




(3)

If publication under subsection (1) is not practicable, the notice may
be given in the areas by alternative means so long as the notice




(a)

is given within the same period as required for newspaper publication,




(b)

is given with the same frequency as required for newspaper
publication, and




(c)

provides notice that the council considers is reasonably equivalent to
that which would be provided by newspaper publication.




(4)

As an exception, subsection 3 (b) does not apply in relation to an
area if the alternative means is by individual distribution to the
persons resident in the area.






Bylaw to provide for alternative means of publication




94.2

(1)


A council may, by bylaw, provide for alternative means of publishing a
notice instead of publishing the notice in a newspaper in accordance
with section 94.1 (1) (a) and (b).




(2)

A bylaw adopted under this section must specify at least 2 means of
publication by which a notice is to be published, not including
posting in the public notice posting places.




(3)

Subject to the regulations, a council may specify, in a bylaw adopted
under this section, any means of publication, so long as, before
adopting the bylaw, the council considers the principles prescribed by
regulation under subsection (6) (a).




(4)

Section 12 does not apply in relation to a council's authority to
adopt a bylaw under this section.




(5)

If a bylaw is adopted under this section, the applicable notice
referred to in section 94 (1) (a)




(a)

must be published by the means specified in that bylaw,




(b)

subject to the regulations and unless this or another Act provides
otherwise, must be published at least 7 days before the date of the
matter for which notice is required, and




(c)

if a period is prescribed for the purpose of this paragraph and unless
this or another Act provides otherwise, must be published in the
prescribed period before the date of the matter for which notice is
required.




(6)

The minister may make regulations as follows:




(a)

prescribing the principles that must be considered before adopting a
bylaw under this section;




(b)

prescribing one of the means of publication that must be specified in
a bylaw adopted under this section;




(c)

requiring that one or more of the means of publication specified in a
bylaw adopted under this section be selected from the prescribed
means;




(d)

for the purpose of subsection (5) (b), prescribing a number of days,
other than 7 days, before the date of the matter for which notice is
required;




(e)

for the purpose of subsection (5) (c), prescribing a period of time.






Public access to municipal records




95

(1)


In addition to the public access provided by the

Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act

, a council may, by bylaw, provide for public access to its records
and establish procedures respecting that access.




(2)

If an enactment requires that a municipal record be available for
public inspection, that obligation is met by having the record
available for public inspection at the municipal hall during regular
office hours.




(3)

If a municipal record is available for public inspection, a person may
have a copy made of all or part of the record on payment of any
applicable fee established by the council under section 194
[municipal fees]
.




(4)

A person inspecting a record of a municipality must not, without
authorization, remove the record from the place where it has been
provided for inspection.




(5)

An obligation or authority under this Act to provide public access to
a municipal record does not apply to records that must not be
disclosed under the

Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act

.






Agreements that require elector approval or assent




96


If an agreement is proposed or made in relation to a matter that
requires approval of the electors or assent of the electors,




(a)

the agreement, and




(b)

all records relating to the agreement that are in the custody or under
the control of the municipality


must be available for public inspection at the municipal hall during
the time when the approval or assent process is underway.






Other records to which public access must be provided




97

(1)


The following municipal records, or copies of them, must be available
for public inspection:




(a)

all bylaws and all proposed bylaws that have been given first reading;




(b)

all minutes of council meetings, other than a meeting or part of a
meeting that is closed to the public;




(c)

all minutes of meetings of bodies referred to in section 93
[application of rules to other bodies]
, other than a meeting or part of a meeting that is closed to the
public;




(d)

the annual municipal report under section 98;




(e)

all disclosure statements under section 106
[disclosure of gifts]
;




(f)

the report under section 168
[council remuneration, expenses and contracts]
;




(g)

the written disclosures referred to in section 6 (1)
[disclosures by council members and nominees]
of the

Financial Disclosure Act

;




(h)

any applicable agreements under section 9 (5)
[concurrent authority agreements]
.




(2)

The obligation under subsection (1) is met if the record is made
available at the municipal hall within 7 days after it has been
requested.




Division 5 — Reporting





Annual municipal report




98

(1)


Before June 30 in each year, a council must




(a)

prepare an annual report, and




(b)

make the report available for public inspection under section 97.




(c)

[Repealed 2022-15-4.]




(2)

The annual report must include the following:




(a)

the audited annual financial statements referred to in section 167 (4)
for the previous year;




(b)

for each tax exemption provided by a council under Division 7
[Permissive Tax Exemptions]
of Part 7
[Municipal Revenue]
, the amount of property taxes that would have been imposed on the
property in the previous year if it were not exempt for that year;




(c)

a report respecting municipal services and operations for the previous
year;




(d)

a progress report respecting the previous year in relation to the
objectives and measures established for that year under paragraph (f);




(e)

any declarations of disqualification made under section 111
[application to court for declaration of disqualification]
in the previous year, including identification of the council member
or former council member involved and the nature of the
disqualification;




(f)

a statement of municipal objectives, and the measures that will be
used to determine progress respecting those objectives, for the
current and next year;




(g)

any other information the council considers advisable.






Annual meeting on report




99

(1)


The council must annually consider, at a council meeting or other
public meeting,




(a)

the annual report prepared under section 98, and




(b)

submissions and questions from the public.




(2)

The annual meeting must occur at least 14 days after the annual report
is made available for public inspection under section 97 but no later
than June 30.




(3)

Notice of the annual meeting must be given in accordance with section
94
[public notice]
and must include the following:




(a)

the date, time and, if applicable, place of the annual meeting;




(b)

if the annual meeting is to be conducted by means of electronic or
other communication facilities, the way in which the meeting is to be
conducted by those means.




(4)

The council must have the annual report available for public
inspection at the annual meeting.




(5)

In the case of an annual meeting conducted by means of electronic or
other communication facilities, the obligation under subsection (4) is
met if the annual report is published on a publicly accessible
website.




Division 6 — Conflict of Interest





Disclosure of conflict




100

(1)


This section applies to council members in relation to




(a)

council meetings,




(b)

council committee meetings, and




(c)

meetings of any other body referred to in section 93
[application of open meeting rules to other bodies]
.




(2)

If a council member attending a meeting considers that the member is
not entitled to participate in the discussion of a matter, or to vote
on a question in respect of a matter, because the member has




(a)

a direct or indirect pecuniary interest in the matter, or




(b)

another interest in the matter that constitutes a conflict of
interest,


the member must declare this and state in general terms the reason why
the member considers this to be the case.




(3)

After making a declaration under subsection (2), the council member
must not do anything referred to in section 101 (2)
[restrictions on participation]
.




(4)

As an exception to subsection (3), if a council member has made a
declaration under subsection (2) and, after receiving legal advice on
the issue, determines that the member was wrong respecting the
member's entitlement to participate in respect of the matter, the
member may




(a)

return to the meeting or attend another meeting of the same body,




(b)

withdraw the declaration by stating in general terms the basis on
which the member has determined that the member is entitled to
participate, and




(c)

after this, participate and vote in relation to the matter.




(5)

For certainty, a council member who makes a statement under subsection
(4) remains subject to section 101
[restrictions on participation if in conflict]
.




(6)

When a declaration under subsection (2) or a statement under
subsection (4) is made,




(a)

the person recording the minutes of the meeting must record




(i)

the member's declaration or statement,




(ii)

the reasons given for it, and




(iii)

the time of the member's departure from the meeting room and, if
applicable, of the member's return, and




(b)

unless a statement is made under subsection (4), the person presiding
at that meeting or any following meeting in respect of the matter must
ensure that the member is not present at any part of the meeting
during which the matter is under consideration.






Restrictions on participation if in conflict




101

(1)


This section applies if a council member has a direct or indirect
pecuniary interest in a matter, whether or not the member has made a
declaration under section 100.




(2)

The council member must not




(a)

remain or attend at any part of a meeting referred to in section 100
(1) during which the matter is under consideration,




(b)

participate in any discussion of the matter at such a meeting,




(c)

vote on a question in respect of the matter at such a meeting, or




(d)

attempt in any way, whether before, during or after such a meeting, to
influence the voting on any question in respect of the matter.




(3)

A person who contravenes this section is disqualified from holding
office as described in section 108.1
[disqualification for contravening conflict rules]
unless the contravention was done inadvertently or because of an error
in judgment made in good faith.






Restrictions on inside influence




102

(1)


A council member must not use the member's office to attempt to
influence in any way a decision, recommendation or other action to be
made or taken




(a)

at a meeting referred to in section 100 (1)
[disclosure of conflict]
,




(b)

by an officer or an employee of the municipality, or




(c)

by a delegate under section 154
[delegation of council authority]
,


if the member has a direct or indirect pecuniary interest in the
matter to which the decision, recommendation or other action relates.




(2)

A person who contravenes this section is disqualified from holding
office as described in section 108.1
[disqualification for contravening conflict rules]
unless the contravention was done inadvertently or because of an error
in judgment made in good faith.






Restrictions on outside influence




103

(1)


In addition to the restriction under section 102, a council member
must not use the member's office to attempt to influence in any way a
decision, recommendation or action to be made or taken by any other
person or body, if the member has a direct or indirect pecuniary
interest in the matter to which the decision, recommendation or other
action relates.




(2)

A person who contravenes this section is disqualified from holding
office as described in section 108.1
[disqualification for contravening conflict rules]
unless the contravention was done inadvertently or because of an error
in judgment made in good faith.






Exceptions from conflict restrictions




104

(1)


Sections 100 to 103 do not apply if one or more of the following
circumstances applies:




(a)

the pecuniary interest of the council member is a pecuniary interest
in common with electors of the municipality generally;




(b)

in the case of a matter that relates to a local service, the pecuniary
interest of the council member is in common with other persons who are
or would be liable for the local service tax;




(c)

the matter relates to remuneration, expenses or benefits payable to
one or more council members in relation to their duties as council
members;




(d)

the pecuniary interest is so remote or insignificant that it cannot
reasonably be regarded as likely to influence the member in relation
to the matter;




(e)

the pecuniary interest is of a nature prescribed by regulation.




(2)

Despite sections 100 to 103, if a council member




(a)

has a legal right to be heard in respect of a matter or to make
representations to council, and




(b)

is restricted by one or more of those sections from exercising that
right in relation to the matter,


the council member may appoint another person as a representative to
exercise the member's right on the member's behalf.






Restrictions on accepting gifts




105

(1)


A council member must not, directly or indirectly, accept a fee, gift
or personal benefit that is connected with the member's performance of
the duties of office.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply to




(a)

a gift or personal benefit that is received as an incident of the
protocol or social obligations that normally accompany the
responsibilities of office,




(b)

compensation authorized by law, or




(c)

a lawful contribution made to a member who is a candidate for election
to a local government.




(3)

A person who contravenes this section is disqualified from holding
office as described in section 108.1
[disqualification for contravening conflict rules]
unless the contravention was done inadvertently or because of an error
in judgment made in good faith.






Disclosure of gifts




106

(1)


This section applies if




(a)

a council member receives a gift or personal benefit referred to in
section 105 (2) (a) that exceeds $250 in value, or




(b)

the total value of such gifts and benefits, received directly or
indirectly from one source in any 12 month period, exceeds $250.




(2)

In the circumstances described in subsection (1), the council member
must file with the corporate officer, as soon as reasonably
practicable, a disclosure statement indicating




(a)

the nature of the gift or benefit,




(b)

its source, including, if it is from a corporation, the full names and
addresses of at least 2 individuals who are directors of the
corporation,




(c)

when it was received, and




(d)

the circumstances under which it was given and accepted.




(3)

A person who contravenes this section is disqualified from holding
office as described in section 108.1
[disqualification for contravening conflict rules]
unless the contravention was done inadvertently or because of an error
in judgment made in good faith.






Disclosure of contracts with council members and former council
members




107

(1)


If a municipality enters into a contract in which




(a)

a council member, or




(b)

a person who was a council member at any time during the previous 6
months,


has a direct or indirect pecuniary interest, this must be reported as
soon as reasonably practicable at a council meeting that is open to
the public.




(2)

In addition to the obligation under section 100
[disclosure of conflict]
, a council member or former council member must advise the corporate
officer, as soon as reasonably practicable, of any contracts that must
be reported under subsection (1) in relation to that person.




(3)

A person who contravenes subsection (2) is disqualified from holding
office as described in section 108.1
[disqualification for contravening conflict rules]
unless the contravention was done inadvertently or because of an error
in judgment made in good faith.






Restrictions on use of insider information




108

(1)


A council member or former council member must not use information or
a record that




(a)

was obtained in the performance of the member's office, and




(b)

is not available to the general public,


for the purpose of gaining or furthering a direct or indirect
pecuniary interest of the council member or former council member.




(2)

A person who contravenes this section is disqualified from holding
office as described in section 108.1
[disqualification for contravening conflict rules]
unless the contravention was done inadvertently or because of an error
in judgment made in good faith.






Disqualification from office for contravening conflict rules




108.1


A person disqualified from holding office under this Division is
disqualified from holding office




(a)

on a local government,




(b)

on the council of the City of Vancouver or on the Park Board
established under section 485 of the

Vancouver Charter

, or




(c)

as a trustee under the

Islands Trust Act



until the next general local election.






Court order for person to give up financial gain




109

(1)


If a council member or former council member has




(a)

contravened this Division, and




(b)

realized financial gain in relation to that contravention,


the municipality or an elector may apply to the Supreme Court for an
order under this section.




(2)

Within 7 days after the petition commencing an application under this
section is filed, it must be served on




(a)

the council member or former council member, and




(b)

in the case of an application brought by an elector, the municipality.




(3)

On an application under this section, the Supreme Court may order the
council member or former council member to pay to the municipality an
amount equal to all or part of the person's financial gain as
specified by the court.




(4)

In the case of an application made by an elector, if the court makes
an order under subsection (3), the municipality must promptly pay the
elector's costs within the meaning of the Supreme Court Civil Rules.




(5)

The court may order that costs to be paid under subsection (4) may be
recovered by the municipality from any other person as directed by the
court in the same manner as a judgment of the Supreme Court.




(6)

Except as provided in subsection (4), the costs of an application are
in the discretion of the court.




Division 6.1 — Mandatory Leave of Absence





Definition




109.1


In this Division,
"charge"
does not include a charge in an information described in section
507.1 (1) of the

Criminal Code

that must be referred in accordance with that section.






Disclosure of charge




109.2

(1)


This section applies to a council member who is charged with any of
the following:




(a)

an offence under the

Criminal Code

;




(b)

an indictable offence under the

Controlled Drugs and Substances Act

(Canada).




(2)

The council member must, as soon as practicable, give written notice
to the council indicating




(a)

the offence with which the member is charged, and




(b)

the date of the charge.






Mandatory leave of absence




109.3

(1)


A council member who is charged with an offence referred to in section
109.2 is on a leave of absence from the member's duties on council for
a period that




(a)

begins on the date of the charge, and




(b)

ends, as applicable,




(i)

if the member is acquitted of the offence, on the day after the date
of the acquittal,




(ii)

if the member is convicted of the offence, on the date of the
conviction,




(iii)

if the member is discharged of the offence, on the day after the date
of the discharge,




(iv)

if all proceedings in relation to the charge are stayed, on the day
after the date of the stay, or




(v)

if the charge is withdrawn, on the day after the date of the
withdrawal.




(2)

While on a leave of absence under this section, the council member




(a)

continues to hold office but must not exercise a power or carry out a
duty as a council member, and




(b)

is entitled to remuneration and benefits to which the member would be
entitled as a council member if the member were not on the leave of
absence.




(3)

For certainty, a person who is on a leave of absence under this
section and who is otherwise qualified to hold office is not
disqualified from being nominated for, being elected to or holding
office




(a)

on a local government,




(b)

on the council of the City of Vancouver or on the Park Board
established under section 485 of the

Vancouver Charter

, or




(c)

as a trustee under the

Islands Trust Act

.




(4)

A power exercised or a duty carried out by a council member who is on
a leave of absence under this section is not invalid by reason only
that it was exercised or carried out in contravention of subsection
(2) (a).




Division 7 — Challenge of Council Member Qualification for Office





Disqualifications to which this Division applies




110


This Division applies to the following disqualifications from holding
office on a council:




(a)

disqualifications under the following provisions of this Act:




(i)

Division 6
[Conflict of Interest]
of this Part;




(ii)

section 120 (1.1)
[failure to make oath of office]
;




(iii)

section 125 (5)
[unexcused absence from council meetings]
;




(iv)

section 191 (3)
[unauthorized expenditures]
;




(b)

disqualifications under section 81 (2)
[persons disqualified from holding local government office]
of the

Local Government Act

, other than disqualifications referred to in section 81 (2) (h)

[disqualifications under the
Local Elections Campaign Financing Act
]

.






Application to court for declaration of disqualification




111

(1)


If it appears that a person is disqualified as referred to in section
110 and is continuing to act in office,




(a)

10 or more electors of the municipality, or




(b)

the municipality,


may apply to the Supreme Court for an order under this section.




(2)

As a restriction, a municipality may only make an application under
subsection (1) if this is approved by a resolution that




(a)

is adopted by a vote of at least 2/3 of all council members, and




(b)

identifies the grounds for disqualification referred to in section 110
which the council considers apply.




(3)

Sections 100
[disclosure of conflict]
and 101
[restrictions on participation if in conflict]
do not apply to the council member who is subject to a resolution
referred to in subsection (2) of this section in relation to that
resolution.




(4)

An application under this section may only be made within 45 days
after the alleged basis of the disqualification comes to the attention
of




(a)

any of the electors bringing the application, in the case of an
application under subsection (1) (a), or




(b)

any member of council other than the person alleged to be
disqualified, in the case of an application under subsection (1) (b).




(5)

Within 7 days after the petition commencing an application under this
section is filed, it must be served on




(a)

the person whose right to hold office is being challenged, and




(b)

in the case of an application under subsection (1) (a), the
municipality.




(6)

On the hearing of the application, the court may declare




(a)

that the person is qualified to hold office,




(b)

that the person is disqualified from holding office, or




(c)

that the person is disqualified from holding office and that the
office is vacant.






Status of person subject to an application




112

(1)


A person who is subject to an application under section 111 and who
considers themselves to be qualified to hold office may continue to
act in office pending the determination of the Supreme Court
respecting the application.




(2)

If a person who is declared disqualified from holding office by the
Supreme Court appeals the decision, the appeal does not operate as a
stay of the declaration and the person is disqualified pending the
final determination of the appeal.




(3)

If a declaration of disqualification referred to in subsection (2) is
overturned on final appeal and the term of office for which the person
was elected has not ended,




(a)

the person is entitled to take office for the remainder of the term if
otherwise qualified, and




(b)

for this purpose, any other person elected or appointed to the office
since the declaration of disqualification ceases to hold office at the
time the person declared qualified takes office.






Costs of an application




113

(1)


In the case of an application under section 111 made by a group of
electors, if the court declares that the person challenged is not
qualified to hold office, the municipality must promptly pay the
electors' costs within the meaning of the Supreme Court Civil Rules.




(2)

The court may order that costs to be paid under subsection (1) may be
recovered by the municipality from the person who was declared
disqualified or any other person as directed by the court in the same
manner as a judgment of the Supreme Court.




(3)

Except as provided in subsection (1), the costs of an application are
in the discretion of the court.




Division 8 — Code of Conduct





Requirement to consider code of conduct




113.1

(1)


Within 6 months after its first regular council meeting following a
general local election, a council must decide




(a)

whether to establish a code of conduct for council members, or




(b)

if a code of conduct for council members has already been established,
whether it should be reviewed.




(2)

Before making a decision under subsection (1), the council must




(a)

consider the prescribed principles for codes of conduct,




(b)

consider the other prescribed matters, if any, and




(c)

comply with the prescribed requirements, if any, including
requirements respecting public notice or consultation.




(3)

If the council decides, under subsection (1), not to establish a code
of conduct or review an existing code of conduct, it must make
available to the public, on request, a statement respecting the
reasons for its decision.






Reconsideration of decision respecting code of conduct




113.2

(1)


If a council decides, under section 113.1, not to establish a code of
conduct or review an existing code of conduct, the council must
reconsider that decision before January 1 of the year of the next
general local election.




(2)

In a reconsideration under subsection (1), the council must




(a)

consider the prescribed principles for codes of conduct,




(b)

consider the other prescribed matters, if any, and




(c)

comply with the prescribed requirements, if any, including
requirements respecting public notice or consultation.




(3)

If the council confirms the decision that is the subject of the
reconsideration, the council must make available to the public, on
request, a statement respecting its reasons for confirming the
decision.




Part 5 — Municipal Government and Procedures



Division 1 — Council Roles and Responsibilities





Council as governing body




114

(1)


The members of a municipal council are the mayor and the councillors.




(2)

Despite a change in its membership, the council of a municipality is a
continuing body and may complete any proceedings started but not
completed before the change.




(3)

The powers, duties and functions of a municipality are to be exercised
and performed by its council, except as otherwise provided under this
or another Act, and a council, in exercising or performing its powers,
duties and functions, is acting as the governing body of the
municipality.




(4)

A council has all necessary power to do anything incidental or
conducive to the exercise or performance of any power, duty or
function conferred on a council or municipality by this or any other
enactment.






Responsibilities of council members




115


Every council member has the following responsibilities:




(a)

to consider the well-being and interests of the municipality and its
community;




(b)

to contribute to the development and evaluation of the policies and
programs of the municipality respecting its services and other
activities;




(c)

to participate in council meetings, committee meetings and meetings of
other bodies to which the member is appointed;




(d)

to carry out other duties assigned by the council;




(e)

to carry out other duties assigned under this or any other Act.






Responsibilities of mayor




116

(1)


The mayor is the head and chief executive officer of the municipality.




(2)

In addition to the mayor's responsibilities as a member of council,
the mayor has the following responsibilities:




(a)

to provide leadership to the council, including by recommending
bylaws, resolutions and other measures that, in the mayor's opinion,
may assist the peace, order and good government of the municipality;




(b)

to communicate information to the council;




(c)

to preside at council meetings when in attendance;




(d)

to provide, on behalf of the council, general direction to municipal
officers respecting implementation of municipal policies, programs and
other directions of the council;




(e)

to establish standing committees in accordance with section 141;




(f)

to suspend municipal officers and employees in accordance with section
151;




(g)

to reflect the will of council and to carry out other duties on behalf
of the council;




(h)

to carry out other duties assigned under this or any other Act.






Confidentiality




117

(1)


A council member or former council member must, unless specifically
authorized otherwise by council,




(a)

keep in confidence any record held in confidence by the municipality,
until the record is released to the public as lawfully authorized or
required, and




(b)

keep in confidence information considered in any part of a council
meeting or council committee meeting that was lawfully closed to the
public, until the council or committee discusses the information at a
meeting that is open to the public or releases the information to the
public.




(2)

If the municipality suffers loss or damage because a person
contravenes subsection (1) and the contravention was not inadvertent,
the municipality may recover damages from the person for the loss or
damage.






Size of council




118

(1)


Unless otherwise provided by letters patent or by a bylaw under this
section, the council size for municipalities must be as follows:




(a)

for a city or district having a population of more than 50 000, the
council is to consist of a mayor and 8 councillors;




(b)

for a city or district having a population of 50 000 or less, the
council is to consist of a mayor and 6 councillors;




(c)

for a town or village, the council is to consist of a mayor and 4
councillors.




(2)

For the purposes of this section, any change to a council size under
subsection (1) is to be based on the population of the municipality as
at January 1 in a general local election year and the change takes
effect for the purposes of that election.




(3)

A council may, by bylaw, establish the number of council members as a
mayor and 4, 6, 8 or 10 councillors.




(4)

If a bylaw under subsection (3) would




(a)

reduce the number of council members, or




(b)

maintain the current number of council members, despite an increase
that would otherwise result under subsection (2),


it may only be adopted if it receives the assent of the electors.




(5)

A bylaw under subsection (3)




(a)

must be made at least 6 months before the next general local election,
and




(b)

does not become effective until that general local election.




(6)

The size of council as established under subsection (3) applies
despite any provision of a municipality's letters patent.






Term of office for council members




119

(1)


Subject to subsections (2) to (4), the term of office for a council
member elected at a general local election




(a)

begins on the first council meeting date referred to in section 125
(1)
[council meetings]
that follows the election, and




(b)

ends immediately before the first council meeting date referred to in
section 125 (1) that follows the next general local election.




(1.1)

Subject to subsections (3) and (4), the term of office for a council
member appointed to office ends immediately before the first council
meeting date referred to in section 125 (1) that follows the next
general local election.




(2)

A person who has delivered the oath or affirmation of office to the
corporate officer in accordance with section 120 (5) takes office




(a)

on the date referred to in subsection (1) (a), if delivery to the
corporate officer is done before this time, and




(b)

otherwise, at the time of delivery.




(3)

For the purpose of maintaining continuity in the office of mayor, if
the incoming mayor has not taken office on the date referred to in
subsection (1) (a), the previous mayor continues to hold office until
the successor has taken office.




(4)

As a transitional measure, if, on the date referred to in subsection
(1) (a), the number of incoming council members who have taken office
is less than a quorum, until such a quorum has taken office the
council consists of




(a)

the previous councillors, who continue in office until that time,




(b)

if applicable under subsection (3), the previous mayor, and




(c)

the incoming council members who have taken office.






Oath or affirmation of office




120

(1)


A person elected or appointed to office on a council must make an oath
or solemn affirmation of office within the following applicable time
limit:




(a)

in the case of a person elected by acclamation, within 50 days after
the date set for general voting day had an election by voting been
required;




(b)

in the case of a person elected by voting, within 45 days after the
declaration of the results of the election;




(c)

in the case of a person appointed to office, within 45 days after the
effective date of the appointment.




(1.1)

If a person referred to in subsection (1) does not make the required
oath or solemn affirmation of office within the time limit established
by that subsection, the person is disqualified from holding office




(a)

on a local government,




(b)

on the council of the City of Vancouver or on the Park Board
established under section 485 of the

Vancouver Charter

, or




(c)

as a trustee under the

Islands Trust Act


until the next general local election.



(2)

A council may, by bylaw, establish the oath or solemn affirmation of
office for the purposes of this section, which may be different for
the office of mayor and the office of councillor.




(3)

If no bylaw under subsection (2) applies, the oath or solemn
affirmation of office to be made is that prescribed by regulation.




(4)

The oath or solemn affirmation of office must be made before a judge
of the Court of Appeal, Supreme Court or Provincial Court, a justice
of the peace, a commissioner for taking affidavits for British
Columbia, the corporate officer or the chief election officer.




(5)

Before a person takes office as a council member, the person must
produce the completed oath or affirmation, or a certificate of it, to
the corporate officer.






Resignation from office




121

(1)


A council member may only resign the member's office by delivering a
written resignation to the council at a council meeting or to the
corporate officer at any time.




(2)

A resignation is effective




(a)

from the date specified in the resignation, or




(b)

if no date is specified, from the time the resignation is delivered to
the council or corporate officer, as applicable.




(3)

Once a resignation has been delivered under subsection (1), it may not
be revoked.




Division 2 — Council Proceedings





Exercise of powers by bylaw or resolution




122

(1)


A council may only exercise its authority by resolution or bylaw.




(2)

If an enactment provides that a council is required or empowered to
exercise a power by bylaw, that power may only be exercised by bylaw.




(3)

If a council may exercise a power by resolution, that power may also
be exercised by bylaw.




(4)

An act or proceeding of a council is not valid unless it is authorized
or adopted by bylaw or resolution at a council meeting.






General voting rules




123

(1)


Unless otherwise provided, a motion on a bylaw or resolution, or on
any other question before council, is decided by a majority of the
council members present at the meeting.




(2)

Each council member has one vote on any question.




(3)

Each council member present at the time of a vote must vote on the
matter.




(4)

If a council member does not indicate how the member votes, the member
is deemed to have voted in the affirmative.




(5)

If the votes of the members present at a council meeting at the time
of the vote are equal for and against a motion, the motion is
defeated.




(6)

A requirement under an enactment for an affirmative vote of a
specified portion of all members of a council means an affirmative
vote of that portion of the number of members of which the council
consists under section 118
[size of council]
.




(7)

The voting rules established by this section also apply to council
committees.






Procedure bylaws




124

(1)


A council must, by bylaw, establish the general procedures to be
followed by council and council committees in conducting their
business.




(2)

Without limiting the matters that may be dealt with under this
section, a council must, by bylaw, do the following:




(a)

establish rules of procedure for council meetings, including the
manner by which resolutions may be passed and the manner by which
bylaws may be adopted in accordance with Division 3
[Bylaw Procedures]
of this Part;




(b)

establish rules of procedure for meetings of council committees;




(c)

provide for the taking of minutes of council meetings and council
committee meetings, including requiring certification of those
minutes;




(d)

provide for advance public notice respecting the time and date and, if
applicable, the place of council committee meetings and establish the
procedures for giving that notice;




(e)

identify places that are to be public notice posting places for the
purposes of section 94
[public notice]
;




(f)

establish the procedure for designating a person under section 130
[designation of member to act in place of the mayor]
;




(g)

establish the first regular council meeting date referred to in
section 125 (1)
[council meetings]
as a day in the first 10 days of November following a general local
election.




(3)

A bylaw under this section must not be amended, or repealed and
substituted, unless the council first gives notice in accordance with
section 94
[public notice]
describing the proposed changes in general terms.






Council meetings




125

(1)


The first regular council meeting following a general local election
must be on the day set by procedure bylaw under section 124 (2) (g).




(2)

If a quorum of council members elected at the general local election
has not taken office by the time referred to in subsection (1), the
first regular council meeting must be called by the corporate officer
and held as soon as reasonably possible after a quorum has taken
office.




(3)

After the first regular meeting, a council must meet




(a)

regularly in accordance with the applicable procedure bylaw, and




(b)

as it decides and as provided in this Act.




(4)

A special council meeting is a council meeting other than a regular
meeting or an adjourned meeting.




(5)

Subject to subsection (7), if a council member is absent from council
meetings for




(a)

a period of 60 consecutive days, or




(b)

4 consecutive regularly scheduled council meetings,


whichever is the longer time period, the council member is
disqualified from holding office in accordance with subsection (6).




(6)

Disqualification under subsection (5) is disqualification from holding
office




(a)

on a local government,




(b)

on the council of the City of Vancouver or on the Park Board
established under section 485 of the

Vancouver Charter

, or




(c)

as a trustee under the

Islands Trust Act


until the next general local election.



(7)

The disqualification under subsection (5) does not apply if the
absence is




(a)

because of illness or injury,




(b)

with leave of the council, or




(c)

because the council member is on a leave of absence under section
109.3
[mandatory leave of absence]
.






Calling of special council meetings




126

(1)


The mayor may call a special council meeting in the mayor's
discretion.




(2)

Two or more council members may, in writing, request that the mayor
call a special council meeting.




(3)

Two or more council members may themselves call a special council
meeting if,




(a)

within 24 hours after receiving a request under subsection (2), no
arrangements are made under subsection (1) for a special council
meeting to be held within the next 7 days, or




(b)

both the mayor and the person designated under section 130
[designation of member to act in place of mayor]
are absent or otherwise unable to act.




(4)

If a special council meeting is called under subsection (3), the
council members calling the meeting or the corporate officer must sign
the notice under section 127
[notice of council meetings]
in place of the mayor.






Notice of council meetings




127

(1)


A council must




(a)

make available to the public a schedule of the date, time and place of
regular council meetings, and




(b)

give notice of the availability of the schedule in accordance with
section 94
[public notice]
at least once a year.




(2)

Subject to subsection (4), notice of a special council meeting must be
given at least 24 hours before the time of meeting by




(a)

posting a copy of the notice at the regular council meeting place,




(b)

posting a copy of the notice at the public notice posting places, and




(c)

leaving one copy for each council member at the place to which the
member has directed notices be sent.




(3)

The notice under subsection (2) must include the date, time and place
of the meeting, describe in general terms the purpose of meeting and
be signed by the mayor or the corporate officer.




(4)

Notice of a special council meeting may be waived by unanimous vote of
all council members.






Electronic regular council meetings




128

(1)


If authorized by a procedure bylaw and the requirements of subsection
(2) are met, regular council meetings may be conducted by means of
electronic or other communication facilities.




(2)

The following requirements apply in relation to a regular council
meeting referred to in subsection (1):




(a)

the meeting must be conducted in accordance with the applicable
procedure bylaw;




(b)

in the procedure bylaw, a council must




(i)

provide for advance public notice of the following:




(A)

the way in which the meeting is to be conducted by means of electronic
or other communication facilities;




(B)

the place where the public may attend to hear, or watch and hear, the
proceedings that are open to the public, and




(ii)

establish the procedures for giving that notice;




(c)

the facilities must




(i)

enable the meeting's participants to hear, or watch and hear, the
meeting,




(ii)

except for any part of the meeting that is closed to the public,
enable the public to hear, or watch and hear, the meeting, and




(iii)

except for any part of the meeting that is closed to the public,
enable the public to hear, or watch and hear, the meeting at the
specified place, and a designated municipal officer must be in
attendance at the specified place.




(3)

Members of council who are participating in a meeting conducted in
accordance with this section are deemed to be present at the meeting.






Electronic special council meetings




128.1

(1)


If authorized by a procedure bylaw and the requirements of subsection
(2) are met, special council meetings may be conducted by means of
electronic or other communication facilities.




(2)

The following requirements apply in relation to a special council
meeting referred to in subsection (1):




(a)

the meeting must be conducted in accordance with the applicable
procedure bylaw;




(b)

the notice under section 127 (2) must include notice of the way in
which the meeting is to be conducted by means of electronic or other
communication facilities and the place where the public may attend to
hear, or watch and hear, the proceedings that are open to the public;




(c)

the facilities must




(i)

enable the meeting's participants to hear, or watch and hear, the
meeting, and




(ii)

except for any part of the meeting that is closed to the public,
enable the public to hear, or watch and hear, the meeting at the
specified place, and a designated municipal officer must be in
attendance at the specified place.




(3)

Members of council who are participating in a meeting conducted in
accordance with this section are deemed to be present at the meeting.






Electronic council committee meetings




128.2

(1)


If authorized by a procedure bylaw and the requirements of subsection
(2) are met, council committee meetings may be conducted by means of
electronic or other communication facilities.




(2)

The following rules apply in relation to a council committee meeting
referred to in subsection (1):




(a)

the meeting must be conducted in accordance with the applicable
procedure bylaw;




(b)

in the procedure bylaw, a council must provide for advance public
notice of the way in which the meeting is to be conducted by means of
electronic or other communication facilities and establish the
procedures for giving that notice;




(c)

the facilities must enable the meeting's participants to hear, or
watch and hear, the meeting;




(d)

except for any part of the meeting that is closed to the public, the
facilities must enable the public to hear, or watch and hear, the
meeting.




(3)

Members of a council committee who are participating in a meeting
conducted in accordance with this section are deemed to be present at
the meeting.






Electronic participation by members in council and council committee
meetings




128.3

(1)


If authorized by a procedure bylaw and the requirements of subsection
(2) are met, a member of council or a council committee who is unable
to attend in person at a regular council meeting, a special council
meeting or a council committee meeting may participate in the meeting
by means of electronic or other communication facilities.




(2)

The following rules apply in relation to a meeting referred to in
subsection (1):




(a)

the meeting must be conducted in accordance with the applicable
procedure bylaw;




(b)

the facilities must enable the meeting's participants to hear, or
watch and hear, the participation of the member;




(c)

except for any part of the meeting that is closed to the public, the
facilities must enable the public to hear, or watch and hear, the
participation of the member.




(3)

Members of council or a council committee who are participating under
this section in a meeting conducted in accordance with this section
are deemed to be present at the meeting.






Quorum for conducting business




129

(1)


Subject to an order under subsection (3), (4) or (7), the quorum is a
majority of the number of members of the council provided for under
section 118
[size of council]
.




(2)

The acts done by a quorum of council are not invalid by reason only
that the council is not at the time composed of the number of council
members required under this Act.




(3)

If the number of members of a council is reduced to less than a
quorum, the minister may either




(a)

order that the remaining members of the council constitute a quorum
until persons are elected and take office to fill the vacancies, or




(b)

appoint qualified persons to fill the vacancies until persons are
elected and take office to fill them.




(4)

The municipality may apply to the Supreme Court for an order under
subsection (5) if, as a result of section 100
[disclosure of conflict]
, the number of council members who may discuss and vote on a matter
falls below




(a)

the quorum for the council, or




(b)

the number of council members required to adopt the applicable bylaw
or resolution.




(5)

On an application under subsection (4), the court may




(a)

order that all or specified council members may discuss and vote on
the matter, despite sections 100
[disclosure of conflict]
and 101
[restrictions on participation]
, and




(b)

make the authority under paragraph (a) subject to any conditions and
directions the court considers appropriate.




(6)

An application under subsection (4) may be made without notice to any
other person.




(7)

If, as a result of section 109.3
[mandatory leave of absence]
, the number of council members who may exercise their powers and
carry out their duties is reduced to less than a quorum, the minister
may either




(a)

order that the reduced number of members constitutes a quorum until
the quorum requirement described in subsection (1) of this section can
be met, or




(b)

appoint qualified persons to act on behalf of the members who are on a
leave of absence under section 109.3.






Designation of member to act in place of mayor




130

(1)


The council must, in accordance with its applicable procedure bylaw,
provide for the designation of a councillor as the member responsible
for acting in the place of the mayor when the mayor is absent or
otherwise unable to act or when the office of mayor is vacant.




(2)

If both the mayor and member designated under subsection (1) are
absent from a council meeting, the members present must choose a
member to preside.




(3)

The member designated under subsection (1) or chosen under subsection
(2) has the same powers and duties as the mayor in relation to the
applicable matter.






Mayor may require council reconsideration of a matter




131

(1)


Without limiting the authority of a council to reconsider a matter,
the mayor may require the council to reconsider and vote again on a
matter that was the subject of a vote.




(2)

As restrictions on the authority under subsection (1),




(a)

the mayor may only initiate a reconsideration under this section




(i)

at the same council meeting as the vote took place, or




(ii)

within the 30 days following that meeting, and




(b)

a matter may not be reconsidered under this section if




(i)

it has had the approval of the electors or the assent of the electors
and was subsequently adopted by the council, or




(ii)

there has already been a reconsideration under this section in
relation to the matter.




(3)

On a reconsideration under this section, the council




(a)

must deal with the matter as soon as convenient, and




(b)

on that reconsideration, has the same authority it had in its original
consideration of the matter, subject to the same conditions that
applied to the original consideration.




(4)

If the original decision was the adoption of a bylaw or resolution and
that decision is rejected on reconsideration, the bylaw or resolution
is of no effect and is deemed to be repealed.






Authority of presiding member




132

(1)


The mayor or the member presiding at a council meeting must preserve
order and decide points of order that may arise, subject to an appeal
under this section.




(2)

On an appeal by a council member from a decision of the presiding
member under subsection (1), the question as to whether the chair is
to be sustained must be immediately put by the presiding member and
decided without debate.




(3)

As exceptions to section 123
[general voting rules]
,




(a)

the mayor or other presiding member may not vote on a motion under
subsection (2),




(b)

the motion passes in the affirmative if the votes are equal, and




(c)

the mayor or other presiding member must be governed by the result.




(4)

If the mayor or presiding member refuses to put the question under
subsection (2),




(a)

the council must immediately appoint another member to preside
temporarily,




(b)

that other member must proceed in accordance with subsection (2), and




(c)

a motion passed under this subsection is as binding as if passed under
subsection (2).






Expulsion from meetings




133

(1)


If the person presiding at a council meeting considers that another
person at the meeting is acting improperly, the person presiding may
order that the person is expelled from the meeting.




(2)

If a person who is expelled does not leave the meeting, a peace
officer may enforce the order under subsection (1) as if it were a
court order.






Authority to compel witnesses




134

(1)


A council or council committee




(a)

has power, under the signature of the mayor, to summon witnesses for
examination on oath respecting matters related to the administration
of the municipality, and




(b)

has the same power to enforce the attendance of witnesses and compel
them to give evidence as is vested in a court of law in civil cases.




(2)

A member of council or the corporate officer may administer the oath
to or take the solemn affirmation of a witness.




(3)

A witness may be examined, cross examined and re-examined according to
the rules and practice of the Supreme Court in civil cases.






Meetings and hearings outside municipality




134.1

(1)


If authorized under subsection (2), the following meetings, hearings
and other proceedings may be held, and all powers, duties and
functions may be exercised in relation to those proceedings, outside
the boundaries of the municipality:




(a)

council meetings;




(b)

council committee meetings;




(c)

other public meetings conducted by or on behalf of the council or a
council committee;




(d)

council hearings that are required by law or authorized by an
enactment;




(e)

council proceedings in which a person is entitled under this Act to
make representations to the council.




(2)

A council may do either or both of the following:




(a)

by bylaw, provide that meetings, hearings or other proceedings
referred to in subsection (1) may be held outside the boundaries of
the municipality;




(b)

by resolution in a specific case, allow a meeting, hearing or other
proceeding to be held outside the boundaries of the municipality.




Division 3 — Bylaw Procedures





Requirements for passing bylaws




135

(1)


Before a bylaw is adopted by a council, it must be given 3 readings by
the council.




(2)

Subject to this section and the applicable procedure bylaw, a bylaw
may be given up to 3 readings at one meeting of council.




(3)

There must be at least one day between the third reading and the
adoption of a bylaw.




(4)

If this or another Act requires that a bylaw receive




(a)

approval of the Lieutenant Governor in Council, a minister or the
inspector, or




(b)

approval of the electors or assent of the electors,


the approval or assent must be obtained after the bylaw has been given
third reading and before it is adopted.




(5)

If a bylaw is subject to both requirements referred to in subsection
(4), the approval referred to in subsection (4) (a) must be obtained
before the bylaw is submitted for the approval or assent referred to
in subsection (4) (b).




(6)

Once a bylaw is adopted,




(a)

the council member presiding at the meeting at which it was adopted,
and




(b)

the corporate officer

must sign the bylaw.





When a bylaw comes into force




136


A bylaw comes into force on the later of




(a)

the date it is adopted by council, and




(b)

a date set by the bylaw.






Power to amend or repeal




137

(1)


Unless otherwise provided,




(a)

the power to adopt a bylaw under this or any other Act includes the
power to amend or repeal such a bylaw,




(b)

the included power to amend or repeal must be exercised by bylaw and
is subject to the same approval and other requirements, if any, as the
power to adopt a new bylaw under that authority, and




(c)

a bylaw may include provisions that, at a future date set by the
bylaw, amend or repeal the bylaw.




(2)

A bylaw that requires approval of the electors or assent of the
electors may be amended or repealed without that approval or assent if
the minister approves and subject to any terms and conditions the
minister considers appropriate.






Municipal codes and other general bylaws




138

(1)


Unless otherwise provided, a council may, by a single bylaw, exercise
any number of its powers to act by bylaw.




(2)

A bylaw under subsection (1), or an equivalent bylaw created by
consolidation under section 139 or revision under section 140, is
subject to all requirements that would apply to the exercise of the
powers by separate bylaws.






Consolidation of bylaws




139

(1)


A council may, by bylaw, authorize the corporate officer to
consolidate one or more of the bylaws of the municipality.




(2)

In consolidating a bylaw, the corporate officer must




(a)

incorporate in it all amendments that have been made to the bylaw, and




(b)

omit any provision that has been repealed or that has expired.




(3)

A printed document purporting




(a)

to be a copy of a bylaw consolidated under this section, and




(b)

to be printed by authority of the corporate officer


is proof, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, of the original
bylaw, of all bylaws amending it and of the fact of adoption of the
original and all amending bylaws.






Revision of bylaws




140

(1)


A council may, by bylaw, authorize the revision of all or any of the
bylaws of the municipality in accordance with the regulations under
this section.




(2)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may, by regulation, provide
municipalities with an authority to revise their bylaws that is
equivalent to the authority provided in relation to statutes under the

Statute Revision Act

, including regulations establishing the legal effect of the revised
bylaws and providing for the correction of revision errors.




(3)

As an exception to section 138 (2), a revised bylaw adopted in
accordance with regulations under this section is deemed to be a bylaw
that has been adopted as if all requirements respecting the approval
and adoption of its provisions have been met.




Division 4 — Committees, Commissions and Other Bodies





Standing committees of council




141

(1)


The mayor must establish standing committees for matters the mayor
considers would be better dealt with by committee and must appoint
persons to those committees.




(2)

At least half of the members of a standing committee must be council
members.




(3)

Subject to subsection (2), persons who are not council members may be
appointed to a standing committee.






Select committees of council




142

(1)


A council may establish and appoint a select committee to consider or
inquire into any matter and to report its findings and opinion to the
council.




(2)

At least one member of a select committee must be a council member.




(3)

Subject to subsection (2), persons who are not council members may be
appointed to a select committee.






Municipal commissions




143

(1)


A council may establish and appoint a commission to do one or more of
the following:




(a)

operate services;




(b)

undertake operation and enforcement in relation to the council's
exercise of its authority to regulate, prohibit and impose
requirements;




(c)

manage property and licences held by the municipality.




(2)

[Repealed 2012-29-50.]






Authority to rescind appointment




144


The authority to appoint under this Division includes the authority to
rescind the appointment at any time and appoint another person in
place of the person whose appointment was rescinded.






Application of procedure rules to other bodies




145

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), the rules established by procedure bylaw
respecting the taking of minutes at council committee meetings apply
to meetings of other bodies referred to in section 93
[application of open meeting rules to other bodies]
.




(2)

The rules referred to in subsection (1) do not apply




(a)

if a procedure bylaw provides for other procedures for the taking of
minutes by one or more bodies referred to in that subsection,




(b)

if the body is exempted by regulation, or




(c)

to the extent they are modified by regulation.






Electronic meetings of other bodies




145.1

(1)


If permitted under the rules governing the procedures of the body and
the requirements of subsection (2) are met, meetings of the following
bodies may be conducted by means of electronic or other communication
facilities:




(a)

a commission established by a council under section 143;




(b)

a parcel tax roll review panel;




(c)

a board of variance established by a local government under
Division 15 of Part 14 of the

Local Government Act

;




(d)

an advisory body established by a council;




(e)

a body that under this or another Act may exercise the powers of a
municipality or council;




(f)

a body referred to in section 93 (g).




(2)

The following requirements apply in relation to a meeting referred to
in subsection (1):




(a)

the facilities must enable the meeting's participants to hear, or
watch and hear, the meeting;




(b)

except for any part of the meeting that is closed to the public, the
facilities must enable the public to hear, or watch and hear, the
meeting.




(3)

Members of a body who are participating under this section in a
meeting conducted in accordance with this section are deemed to be
present at the meeting.






Electronic participation of members




145.2

(1)


If permitted under the rules governing the procedures of the body and
the requirements of subsection (2) are met, a member of a body
referred to in section 145.1 (1) who is unable to attend in
person at a meeting of that body may participate in the meeting by
means of electronic or other communication facilities.




(2)

The following requirements apply in relation to a meeting referred to
in subsection (1):




(a)

the facilities must enable the meeting's participants to hear, or
watch and hear, the participation of the member;




(b)

except for any part of the meeting that is closed to the public, the
facilities must enable the public to hear, or watch and hear, the
participation of the member.




(3)

Members of a body who are participating under this section in a
meeting conducted in accordance with this section are deemed to be
present at the meeting.




Division 5 — Officers and Employees





Officer positions




146


A council




(a)

must, by bylaw, establish officer positions in relation to the powers,
duties and functions under sections 148
[corporate officer]
and 149
[financial officer]
,




(b)

may, by bylaw, establish other officer positions, and




(c)

may assign powers, duties and functions to its officer positions.






Chief administrative officer




147


A bylaw under section 146 may establish the position of chief
administrative officer of the municipality, whose powers, duties and
functions include the following:




(a)

overall management of the operations of the municipality;




(b)

ensuring that the policies, programs and other directions of the
council are implemented;




(c)

advising and informing the council on the operation and affairs of the
municipality.






Corporate officer




148


One of the municipal officer positions must be assigned the
responsibility of corporate administration, which includes the
following powers, duties and functions:




(a)

ensuring that accurate minutes of the meetings of the council and
council committees are prepared and that the minutes, bylaws and other
records of the business of the council and council committees are
maintained and kept safe;




(b)

ensuring that access is provided to records of the council and council
committees, as required by law or authorized by the council;




(c)

administering oaths and taking affirmations, affidavits and
declarations required to be taken under this Act or any other Act
relating to municipalities;




(d)

certifying copies of bylaws and other documents, as required or
requested;




(e)

accepting, on behalf of the council or municipality, notices and
documents that are required or permitted to be given to, served on,
filed with or otherwise provided to the council or municipality;




(f)

keeping the corporate seal, if any, and having it affixed to documents
as required.






Financial officer




149


One of the municipal officer positions must be assigned the
responsibility of financial administration, which includes the
following powers, duties and functions:




(a)

receiving all money paid to the municipality;




(b)

ensuring the keeping of all funds and securities of the municipality;




(c)

investing municipal funds, until required, in authorized investments;




(d)

expending municipal money in the manner authorized by the council;




(e)

ensuring that accurate records and full accounts of the financial
affairs of the municipality are prepared, maintained and kept safe;




(f)

exercising control and supervision over all other financial affairs of
the municipality.






General employment matters




150


In the event of a conflict between terms and conditions of employment
established by municipal bylaw, resolution or policy and those
established by a contract of employment or collective agreement, the
contract or agreement prevails.






Suspension of officers and employees




151

(1)


The mayor must suspend a municipal officer or employee if the mayor
considers this necessary.




(2)

A suspension under subsection (1) must be reported to the council at
its next meeting, and the council may




(a)

reinstate the officer or employee,




(b)

confirm the suspension,




(c)

confirm and extend the suspension, or




(d)

dismiss the officer or employee.






Termination of officers




152

(1)


Subject to a contract of employment and subject to providing the
officer with an opportunity to be heard, the appointment of a
municipal officer may be terminated by the council as follows:




(a)

in the case of termination for cause, by immediate termination without
any period of notice;




(b)

in any other case, by termination on reasonable notice.




(2)

A termination under subsection (1) (b) may only be made by the
affirmative vote of at least 2/3 of all council members.






Prohibition against interfering with municipal officers and employees




153


A person must not interfere with, hinder or obstruct a municipal
officer or employee in the exercise or performance of the officer's or
employee's powers, duties or functions.




Division 6 — Delegation





Delegation of council authority




154

(1)


A council may, by bylaw, delegate its powers, duties and functions,
including those specifically established by an enactment, to the
extent provided, to




(a)

a council member or council committee,




(b)

an officer or employee of the municipality, or




(c)

another body established by the council.




(2)

As exceptions, a council may not delegate the following:




(a)

the making of a bylaw;




(b)

a power or duty exercisable only by bylaw;




(c)

a power or duty established by this or any other Act that the council
give its approval or consent to, recommendations on, or acceptance of
an action, decision or other matter;




(d)

a power or duty established by an enactment that the council hear an
appeal or reconsider an action, decision or other matter;




(e)

a power or duty to terminate the appointment of an officer;




(f)

the power to impose a remedial action requirement under Division 12
[Remedial Action Requirements]
of Part 3.




(3)

Despite subsection (1), a council may only delegate a power or duty to
appoint or suspend an officer to its chief administrative officer.




(4)

A council may not delegate under subsection (1) to a corporation.




(5)

In exercising its powers under subsection (1), a council may establish
any terms and conditions it considers appropriate.






Special rules respecting delegation of hearings and other proceedings




155

(1)


This section applies to the delegation of




(a)

council hearings that are required by law or authorized by an
enactment, other than hearings referred to in section 154 (2) (d), and




(b)

council proceedings in which a person is entitled under this Act to
make representations to council.




(2)

The following rules apply in relation to a delegation referred to in
subsection (1):




(a)

the delegation may be made specifically, by class of hearings or
proceedings, or generally;




(a.1)

despite section 154 (1)
[delegation of council authority]
, the delegation may be made by bylaw or resolution;




(b)

the delegation may only be made to one or more council members;




(c)

if a council decision is to be made following a delegated hearing or
proceeding, the authority to make the decision may only be delegated
to the council members to whom the matter is delegated;




(d)

if a council decision referred to in paragraph (c) is not delegated
under that provision, the council must not make the decision until the
applicable council members report to the council the views expressed
at the hearing or proceeding.




(3)

For certainty, if a delegation has been made under this section, the
council may exercise its authority under this section to revoke that
delegation or change the delegation to a different delegation in
relation to a specific hearing or proceeding.






Reconsideration of delegate's decisions




156

(1)


A council may, by bylaw, establish a right to have decisions delegated
under this Division reconsidered by council.




(2)

If




(a)

a council delegates a power to make a decision, and




(b)

in relation to that delegation, a provision of this or another Act, or
a bylaw under subsection (1), establishes a right to have a delegated
decision reconsidered by the council,


the council must, by bylaw, establish procedures for such a
reconsideration, including how a person may apply for the
reconsideration.




(3)

In undertaking a reconsideration referred to in subsection (2), a
council has the same authority as that conferred on the delegate.




(4)

If there is a right of reconsideration, the person making the decision
must advise the person subject to the decision of this right.




Division 7 — Other Matters





Municipal days of recognition




157


A council may declare, or the mayor may proclaim, a day of recognition
that is to be observed in the municipality.






Freedom of the municipality




158

(1)


A council may, by unanimous vote, confer freedom of the municipality
on




(a)

a distinguished person, or




(b)

a distinguished unit of the armed forces of Canada or another nation.




(2)

Unless the council revokes the honour, a person given freedom of the
municipality or the commander of the armed forces unit, as applicable,




(a)

is deemed to be an elector of the municipality and is eligible to be
registered as such and to vote in an election for mayor or councillor,
and




(b)

despite any other enactment, if the person is a Canadian citizen, is
deemed to be qualified to be nominated, be elected and hold office on
the council.






Notice to municipality




159


If an enactment requires or permits




(a)

notice to be given to a council or a municipality,




(b)

a document to be served on a council or a municipality,




(c)

a document to be filed with a council or a municipality, or




(d)

a document to be delivered, sent, submitted or otherwise provided to a
council or a municipality,


the notice, service, filing or other provision is effected if the
notice or document is, as applicable, given to, served on, filed with
or otherwise provided to the corporate officer.






Notice by municipality: obligation satisfied if reasonable effort made




160


If this or another Act requires a municipality, a council or a
municipal officer or employee to give notice or to mail, send or
deliver a notice, the obligation is satisfied if a reasonable effort
was made to mail or otherwise deliver the notice.






Court order allowing substituted service




161

(1)


If this or another Act requires a municipality, a council or a
municipal officer or employee to serve a notice or other document on a
person, that obligation may be met by serving the notice in accordance
with an order under subsection (2).




(2)

On application, the Supreme Court may order that a document referred
to in subsection (1) may be served by substituted service in
accordance with the order.






Certified copies of municipal records




162


The corporate officer must provide a copy of all or part of a record
of the municipality, certified by the corporate officer, if




(a)

the person requesting the copy pays the fee set by the council, and




(b)

the person is entitled under the

Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act

, or is otherwise permitted, to inspect the record or part for which
the copy is requested.






Evidence of municipal bylaws and other records




163

(1)


Judicial notice must be taken of municipal bylaws.




(2)

A printed document purporting




(a)

to be a copy of a municipal bylaw, and




(b)

to be printed by authority of the council of the municipality


must be admitted in evidence as proof, in the absence of evidence to
the contrary, of the bylaw and of the fact of its adoption.




(3)

A copy of a bylaw, resolution or other record of a municipality
certified by the corporate officer as a true copy of the original must
be admitted in evidence as proof, in the absence of evidence to the
contrary, of the bylaw, resolution or other record, without further
proof of the record, of the signature or of the official position of
the person signing the copy.




Part 6 — Financial Management



Division 1 — Financial Planning and Accountability





Fiscal year




164


The fiscal year for a municipality is the calendar year.






Financial plan




165

(1)


A municipality must have a financial plan that is adopted annually, by
bylaw, before the annual property tax bylaw is adopted.




(2)

For certainty, the financial plan may be amended by bylaw at any time.




(3)

The planning period for a financial plan is 5 years, that period being
the year in which the plan is specified to come into force and the
following 4 years.




(3.1)

The financial plan must set out the objectives and policies of the
municipality for the planning period in relation to the following:




(a)

for each of the funding sources described in subsection (7), the
proportion of total revenue that is proposed to come from that funding
source;




(b)

the distribution of property value taxes among the property classes
that may be subject to the taxes;




(b.1)

the provision of development potential relief under
section 198.1;




(c)

the use of permissive tax exemptions.




(4)

The financial plan must set out the following for each year of the
planning period:




(a)

the proposed expenditures by the municipality;




(b)

the proposed funding sources;




(c)

the proposed transfers to or between funds.




(5)

The total of the proposed expenditures and transfers to other funds
for a year must not exceed the total of the proposed funding sources
and transfers from other funds for the year.




(6)

The proposed expenditures must set out separate amounts for each of
the following as applicable:




(a)

the amount required to pay interest and principal on municipal debt;




(b)

the amount required for capital purposes;




(c)

the amount required for a deficiency referred to in subsection (9);




(d)

the amount required for other municipal purposes.




(7)

The proposed funding sources must set out separate amounts for each of
the following as applicable:




(a)

revenue from property value taxes;




(b)

revenue from parcel taxes;




(c)

revenue from fees;




(d)

revenue from other sources;




(e)

proceeds from borrowing, other than borrowing under section 177
[revenue anticipation borrowing]
.




(8)

The proposed transfers to or between funds must set out separate
amounts for




(a)

each reserve fund under Division 4 of this Part, and




(b)

accumulated surplus.




(9)

If actual expenditures and transfers to other funds for a year exceed
actual revenues and transfers from other funds for the year, the
resulting deficiency must be included in the next year's financial
plan as an expenditure in that year.






Public process for development of financial plan




166


A council must undertake a process of public consultation regarding
the proposed financial plan before it is adopted.






Annual financial statements




167

(1)


Municipal financial statements for a fiscal year must be




(a)

prepared by the financial officer, and




(b)

presented to council for its acceptance.




(2)

Subject to subsection (3), the financial statements must be prepared
in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles for local
governments.




(3)

The inspector may require or authorize, generally or for a specified
municipality, that the financial statements vary from or include
additional information to the requirements of subsection (2).




(4)

By May 15 in each year, a municipality must submit to the inspector
its audited financial statements for the preceding year and any other
financial information requested by the inspector.




(5)

In addition to any requirement under subsection (4), the financial
officer must compile and supply information on the financial affairs
of the municipality requested by the inspector.






Reporting of council remuneration, expenses and contracts




168

(1)


At least once a year, a council must have prepared a report separately
listing the following for each council member by name:




(a)

the total amount of remuneration paid to the council member for
discharge of the duties of office, including any amount specified as
an expense allowance;




(b)

the total amount of expense payments for the council member made to
the council member as reimbursement for expenses incurred by the
council member or as an allowance that is not reported under paragraph
(a);




(c)

the total amount of any benefits, including insurance policies and
policies for medical or dental services, provided to the council
member or the member's dependants;




(d)

any contracts reported under section 107

[disclosure of contracts with council members and former council
members]

, including a general description of their nature.




(2)

If applicable, the report under this section must also list contracts
referred to in subsection (1) (d) for each former council member.




Division 2 — Audit





Municipal auditor




169

(1)


A council must appoint an auditor for the municipality.




(2)

A municipal auditor must be a person who is authorized to be the
auditor of a company under section 205 of the

Business Corporations Act

.




(3)

A municipal auditor has the power and duty to conduct the examinations
necessary to prepare the reports required under this Division and, for
these purposes, has the same authority in relation to the municipality
as the auditor of a company under the

Business Corporations Act

.




(4)

A municipal auditor who receives information from a person whose right
to disclose that information is restricted by law holds that
information under the same restrictions respecting disclosure that
govern the person from whom the information was obtained.






Audit committee




170

(1)


As a limitation on section 154
[delegation of council authority]
, a council may only delegate its powers, duties and functions under
this Division to a committee comprised of council members.




(2)

Reports submitted by the municipal auditor to a committee under this
section are deemed to have been submitted to council.






Auditor's reports




171

(1)


The municipal auditor must report to the council on the annual
financial statements of the municipality.




(2)

The report under subsection (1) must be in accordance with the form
and the reporting standards recommended by the Chartered Professional
Accountants of Canada.




(3)

In addition to the report under subsection (1),




(a)

the council or the inspector may require further reports from the
municipal auditor, and




(b)

the municipal auditor may, on the auditor's own initiative, make
further reports.




(4)

On request by the inspector, the municipal auditor must forward to the
inspector copies of




(a)

reports under subsections (1) and (3), and




(b)

recorded communications in relation to those reports from the auditor
to the council, a council committee or a municipal officer.






Complaints to council or auditor about financial affairs




172

(1)


A person may complain in writing to the council or to the municipal
auditor, if the person considers that




(a)

a disbursement, expenditure, liability or other transaction is not
authorized under this or another Act, or




(b)

there has been a theft, misuse or other defalcation or irregularity in
the funds, accounts, assets, liabilities and financial obligations of
the municipality.




(2)

If a complaint is made under subsection (1) to the council, the
council must give notice of the matter to the municipal auditor.




(3)

If a complaint is made under subsection (1) to the municipal auditor,
the auditor must give notice of the matter to the council and must
report to the council on the subject matter of the complaint.




Division 3 — Expenditures, Liabilities and Investments





Limit on expenditures




173

(1)


A municipality must not make an expenditure other than one authorized
under subsection (2) or (3).




(2)

A municipality may make an expenditure that is included for that year
in its financial plan, so long as the expenditure is not expressly
prohibited under this or another Act.




(3)

A municipality may make an expenditure for an emergency that was not
contemplated for that year in its financial plan, so long as the
expenditure is not expressly prohibited under this or another Act.




(4)

The following apply in relation to the authority under subsection (3):




(a)

the council must establish procedures to




(i)

authorize expenditures under that subsection, and




(ii)

provide for such expenditures to be reported to the council at a
regular meeting;




(b)

if an expenditure is made under that subsection, as soon as
practicable, the council must amend the financial plan to include the
expenditure and the funding source for the expenditure;




(c)

the authority under that subsection does not include the authority to
borrow for the purpose of making the expenditure.






Limit on borrowing and other liabilities




174

(1)


A municipality may only incur a liability as expressly authorized
under this or another Act.




(2)

A municipality may not incur a liability if incurring the liability
would cause the municipality to exceed a limit established under
subsection (3) unless this is approved under subsection (4).




(3)

For the purposes of subsection (2), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations




(a)

establishing a limit on the aggregate liabilities and the method for
determining that limit, and




(b)

establishing a limit on the annual cost of servicing the aggregate
liabilities and the method for determining that limit.




(4)

With the approval of the inspector, a municipality may exceed the
limit established under subsection (3).




(5)

Except for borrowing under section 177
[revenue anticipation borrowing]
, a municipality must not incur a liability for which expenditures are
required during the planning period for its financial plan, unless
those expenditures are included for the applicable year in the
financial plan.






Liabilities under agreements




175

(1)


A council may, under an agreement, incur a liability if




(a)

the liability is not a debenture debt, and




(b)

the period of the liability is not longer than the reasonable life
expectancy of the activity, work or service under the agreement.




(2)

Subject to subsections (4) and (5), if an agreement under subsection
(1) is




(a)

for more than 5 years, or




(b)

for a period that could exceed 5 years by exercising rights of renewal
or extension,


the council may only incur the liability with the approval of the
electors.




(3)

The matter put before the electors under subsection (2) must identify
the other parties to the agreement and the nature, term and amount of
the liability.




(4)

Approval of the electors is not required under subsection (2) for the
following:




(a)

a liability to be incurred under an employment contract or collective
agreement;




(b)

a liability to be incurred for the supply of materials, equipment or
services under an agreement referred to in section 3 of the

Police Act

;




(c)

a liability to be incurred in circumstances prescribed by regulation
or in relation to an agreement or class of agreement prescribed by
regulation, subject to any conditions established by regulation.




(5)

If




(a)

the concept for a partnering agreement has received the approval of
the electors, and




(b)

within 5 years after that approval, the municipality enters into a
partnering agreement that is in accordance with that approved concept,


approval under subsection (2) is not required for the partnering
agreement.




(6)

For the purposes of subsection (5), the concept for the agreement to
be put before the electors must identify the following:




(a)

the nature of the activity, work or facility to be provided under the
partnering agreement;




(b)

the maximum term of the agreement;




(c)

the maximum liability that may be incurred by the municipality under
the agreement;




(d)

any other information required by regulation.






Liabilities imposed under prescribed enactments




176

(1)


A municipality may incur a liability that is within a class prescribed
under this section.




(2)

The authority to incur a liability under this section is not authority
to borrow for the purposes of the liability.




(3)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations prescribing
classes of liability that are imposed under an enactment as
liabilities to which this section applies.






Revenue anticipation borrowing




177

(1)


A council may, by bylaw, provide for the borrowing of money that may
be necessary to




(a)

meet current lawful expenditures, and




(b)

pay amounts required to meet the municipality's taxing obligations in
relation to another local government or other public body.




(2)

The debt outstanding under this section must not exceed the total of




(a)

the unpaid taxes for all purposes imposed during the current year, and




(b)

the money remaining due from other governments.




(3)

Before the adoption of the annual property tax bylaw in any year, the
taxes in that year are deemed to be 75% of all property taxes imposed
for all purposes in the preceding year.




(4)

When collected, revenue from property taxes must be used as necessary
to repay money borrowed under this section.






Short term capital borrowing




178

(1)


A council may, by bylaw adopted with the approval of the inspector,
contract a debt for any purpose of a capital nature.




(2)

A bylaw and the debt under this section must comply with the
following:




(a)

the debt must not cause the municipality to exceed the limit
prescribed by regulation;




(b)

the debt and securities for it must be payable no later than the
lesser of




(i)

5 years from the date on which the securities were issued, and




(ii)

the reasonable life expectancy of the capital asset for which the debt
is contracted;




(c)

the bylaw must set out




(i)

the amount of the debt intended to be incurred, and




(ii)

in brief and general terms, the purpose for which the debt is to be
incurred.






Loan authorization bylaws for long term borrowing




179

(1)


A council may, by a loan authorization bylaw adopted with the approval
of the inspector, incur a liability by borrowing for one or more of
the following:




(a)

any purpose of a capital nature;




(b)

lending to any person or public authority under an agreement;




(c)

guaranteeing repayment of the borrowing, or providing security for the
borrowing, of a person or public authority, if this is provided under
an agreement with the person or public authority;




(d)

complying with an order or requirement to pay money into the Supreme
Court as security




(i)

for payment of a judgment or other debt,




(ii)

for damages or costs, or




(iii)

for the costs of an appeal from the decision of a court or an
arbitrator;




(e)

satisfying a judgment or other order of a court against the
municipality;




(f)

satisfying an award resulting from an arbitrator's determination of
liability or quantum of damages against the municipality, including
orders of the arbitrator related to that determination;




(g)

paying compensation in respect of property expropriated or injured or
carrying out works referred to in section 32 (3)
[entry on land to mitigate damage]
.




(2)

A loan authorization bylaw must set out the following:




(a)

the total amount proposed to be borrowed under the bylaw;




(b)

in brief and general terms, each of the purposes for which the debt is
to be incurred;




(c)

the amount allocated by the bylaw to each of the purposes for which
the debt is to be incurred;




(d)

the maximum term for which the debentures may be issued.




(3)

A loan authorization bylaw may not be included as part of a general
bylaw.




(4)

The authority to borrow under a loan authorization bylaw ends,




(a)

in the case of a loan authorization bylaw under subsection (1) (b) or
(c), at the end of the term of the agreement required by that
subsection, and




(b)

in other cases, 5 years from the date of adoption of the bylaw,


for any part of the amount authorized by the bylaw that has not
already been used to secure borrowing under section 181
[temporary borrowing under loan authorization bylaw]
or 182
[municipal financing through regional district]
.




(5)

The maximum term of a debt that may be authorized by a loan
authorization bylaw is as follows:




(a)

in the case of a bylaw under subsection (1) (a), the lesser of




(i)

30 years, and




(ii)

the reasonable life expectancy of the capital asset for which the debt
is contracted;




(b)

in the case of a loan authorization bylaw under subsection (1) (b) or
(c), the remaining term of the applicable agreement;




(c)

in all other cases, 30 years.




(6)

A decision of the inspector refusing to approve a loan authorization
bylaw may be appealed in accordance with section 762

[appeal from inspector's decisions in relation to borrowing]

of the

Local Government Act

.






Elector approval required for some loan authorization bylaws




180

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), a loan authorization bylaw may only be
adopted with the approval of the electors.




(2)

Approval of the electors is not required for the following:




(a)

money borrowed for a purpose referred to in section 179 (1) (d) to (g)

[loan authorization bylaws for court, arbitration and expropriation
requirements]

;




(b)

money borrowed for works required to be carried out under




(i)

an order of the Inspector of Dikes, or




(ii)

an order under section 84
[abatement of municipal pollution]
, 85
[environmental protection orders]
or 87
[environmental emergency measures]
of the

Environmental Management Act

.




(c)

money borrowed for a purpose prescribed by regulation or in
circumstances prescribed by regulation, subject to any conditions
established by regulation.




(3)

In addition to the exception provided by section 137 (2)
[power to amend or repeal]
, a loan authorization bylaw may be amended or repealed without the
approval of the electors if the inspector approves and subject to any
terms and conditions the inspector considers appropriate.






Temporary borrowing under loan authorization bylaw




181

(1)


A council that has adopted a loan authorization bylaw may, by bylaw,
temporarily borrow money not exceeding the difference between the
total amount authorized by the loan authorization bylaw and the amount
already borrowed in relation to that bylaw.




(2)

To the extent necessary, the proceeds of the borrowing under section
182
[municipal financing through regional district]
must be used to repay the money temporarily borrowed.






Municipal financing through regional district




182

(1)


Except as permitted by section 181
[temporary borrowing under loan authorization bylaw]
or the

Municipal Finance Authority Act

, a municipality must not borrow money under a loan authorization
bylaw unless




(a)

the financing is undertaken by the applicable regional district under
section 410
[financing municipal undertakings]
of the

Local Government Act

through the Municipal Finance Authority of British Columbia, and




(b)

the regional district board has consented to undertake the financing.




(2)

In giving consent referred to in subsection (1), the board may




(a)

separately consent to financing each amount proposed to be borrowed
under the authority of the loan authorization bylaw, or




(b)

consent to financing all the borrowing authorized by the loan
authorization bylaw or all the remaining amount that has not already
been financed by the regional district.




(3)

In relation to regional district financing under section 410 of the

Local Government Act

after giving consent under subsection (2) of this section, the
municipal loan authorization bylaw is the regional district's
authority to proceed under that section and must not be amended or
repealed without the consent of the board.






Investment of municipal funds




183


Money held by a municipality that is not immediately required may only
be invested or reinvested in one or more of the following:




(a)

securities of the Municipal Finance Authority;




(b)

pooled investment funds under section 16 of the

Municipal Finance Authority Act

;




(c)

securities of Canada or of a province;




(d)

securities guaranteed for principal and interest by Canada or by a
province;




(e)

securities of a municipality, regional district or greater board;




(f)

investments guaranteed by a chartered bank;




(g)

deposits in a savings institution, or non-equity or membership shares
of a credit union;




(h)

other investments specifically authorized under this or another Act.






Property accepted in trust




184

(1)


All money that is held by a municipality and is subject to a trust
must be invested in accordance with section 183 until it is required
for the purposes of the trust.




(2)

If, in the opinion of a council, the terms or trusts imposed by a
donor, settlor, transferor or will-maker are no longer in the best
interests of the municipality, the council may apply to the Supreme
Court for an order under subsection (3).




(3)

On an application under subsection (2), the Supreme Court may vary the
terms or trusts as the court considers will better further both the
intention of the donor, settlor, transferor or will-maker and the best
interests of the municipality.




(4)

Section 87
[discharge of trustee's duty]
of the

Trustee Act

applies to an order under subsection (3).






Ownership of corporations




185

(1)


A municipality may only




(a)

incorporate a corporation other than a society, or




(b)

acquire shares in a corporation


with the approval of the inspector or as authorized by regulation.




(2)

An incorporation or acquisition under subsection (1) applies as an
exception to the restriction under section 183
[investment of municipal funds]
.






Self-insurance by local authorities




186


A municipality may self insure, but may only enter into a scheme of
self insurance protection involving other participants in accordance
with section 751
[self-insurance by local authorities]
of the

Local Government Act

.






Indemnification against proceedings




187


A council may only provide for the indemnification of municipal
officials referred to in section 740
[indemnification against proceedings]
of the

Local Government Act

in accordance with that section.




Division 4 — Reserve Funds





Establishment of reserve funds




188

(1)


A council may, by bylaw, establish a reserve fund for a specified
purpose and direct that money be placed to the credit of the reserve
fund.




(2)

If a municipality receives money in respect of any one of the
following, the council must establish a reserve fund for the
applicable purpose:




(a)

money received from the imposition of a development cost charge, which
must be placed to the credit of a reserve fund in accordance with
section 566
[use of development cost charges]
of the

Local Government Act

;





(
a.1
)



money received from the imposition of an amenity cost charge, which
must be placed to the credit of a reserve fund in accordance with
section 570.8


[use of amenity cost charges]

of the


Local Government Act


;




(b)

money received




(i)

from the sale of park land,




(ii)

under section 27 (2) (b)
[disposal of park land]
, or




(iii)

under section 510 (14)
[provision of park land on subdivision]
of the

Local Government Act

,


which must be placed to the credit of a reserve fund for the purpose
of acquiring park lands;




(c)

money received under section 41 (1) (d)

[disposal of highway property that provides access to water]

, which must be placed to the credit of a reserve fund in accordance
with that section;




(d)

money received under section 525 (2)
[parking space requirements]
of the

Local Government Act

, which must be placed to the credit of a reserve fund for the purpose
of providing




(i)

off-street parking spaces, or




(ii)

transportation infrastructure that supports walking, bicycling, public
transit or other alternative forms of transportation;




(e)

except for tax sale proceeds, money received from the sale of land and
improvements, which must be placed to the credit of a reserve fund for
the purposes of paying any debt remaining in relation to the property
and of acquiring land, improvements and other assets of a capital
nature.






Use of money in reserve funds




189

(1)


Subject to this section, money in a reserve fund, and interest earned
on it, must be used only for the purpose for which the fund was
established.




(2)

If the amount to the credit of a reserve fund is greater than required
for the purpose for which the fund was established, the council may,
by bylaw, transfer all or part of the amount to another reserve fund.




(3)

If the current municipal revenue is not sufficient for the amount
required to pay compensation in respect of property expropriated or
injured or to carry out works referred to in section 32 (3)
[entry on land to mitigate damage]
, the council may, by bylaw, use money from a reserve fund to the
extent required.




(4)

As a restriction on subsection (2), a transfer from a reserve fund
established for a capital purpose may only be made to another reserve
fund established for a capital purpose.




(4.1)

Despite any other enactment, if




(a)

money in a reserve fund established for a capital purpose, including a
reserve fund under section 566 of the

Local Government Act

established for a capital purpose, is not currently required for that
purpose, and




(b)

the municipality has another reserve fund established for a capital
purpose,


the municipality may use money in the first reserve fund for the
purposes of the second reserve fund.




(4.2)

If money from one reserve fund is used under subsection (4.1) for the
purposes of another reserve fund, the municipality must repay to the
first reserve fund, no later than the time when the money is needed
for the purposes of that reserve fund,




(a)

the amount used, and




(b)

an amount equivalent to the interest that would have been earned on
the amount used had it remained in the first reserve fund.





(
5
)



As a restriction on subsections (2) and (3), a council must not
transfer amounts or use money from a fund required under any of the
following provisions unless the bylaw is approved by the minister:






(
a
)


section 188 (2) (a)

[development cost charge reserve fund]

;





(
b
)


section 188 (2) (a.1)

[amenity cost charge reserve fund]

;





(
c
)


section 188 (2) (b)

[park land acquisition reserve fund]

.




Division 5 — Restrictions on Use of Municipal Funds





Purposes for which borrowed money may be used




190

(1)


Subject to this section, money borrowed by a municipality under any
Act must not be used for a purpose other than that specified in the
bylaw or agreement authorizing the borrowing.




(2)

A council may, by bylaw adopted with the approval of the electors, use
all or part of money borrowed for a specific purpose and not repayable
in the current year for any other lawful purpose of the municipality.




(3)

If some of the money borrowed for a specified purpose remains unused
after payment of the costs related to that purpose, a council may, by
bylaw, provide for the use of the unused money for one or more of the
following:




(a)

to retire debentures issued for the purpose;




(b)

to purchase and cancel debentures issued for the purpose;




(c)

for expenditures of a nature similar to the purpose in the bylaw
authorizing the money to be borrowed;




(d)

for a reserve fund for matters in paragraph (a), (b) or (c).






Liabilities for use of money contrary to Act




191

(1)


A council member who votes for a bylaw or resolution authorizing the
expenditure, investment or other use of money contrary to this Act or
the

Local Government Act

is personally liable to the municipality for the amount.




(2)

As an exception, subsection (1) does not apply if the council member
relied on information provided by a municipal officer or employee and
the officer or employee was guilty of dishonesty, gross negligence or
malicious or wilful misconduct in relation to the provision of the
information.




(3)

In addition to any other penalty to which the person may be liable, a
council member who is liable to the municipality under subsection (1)
is disqualified from holding office




(a)

on a local government,




(b)

on the council of the City of Vancouver or on the Park Board
established under section 485 of the

Vancouver Charter

, or




(c)

as a trustee under the

Islands Trust Act



until 4 years from the date of the vote to which the disqualification
relates.




(4)

Money owed to a municipality under this section may be recovered for
the municipality by




(a)

the municipality,




(b)

an elector or taxpayer of the municipality, or




(c)

a person who holds a security under a borrowing made by the
municipality.




Division 6 — Ministerial Regulations





Regulations respecting revenue anticipation borrowing in special
circumstances




191.1

(1)


The minister may make regulations in accordance with this section if
the minister considers that special circumstances exist that result
in, or are anticipated to result in, a loss of revenue by or an
expense for




(a)

a municipality, including the City of Vancouver,




(b)

a regional district, or




(c)

a greater board.




(2)

The minister may make regulations respecting delaying the payment of
debt incurred as revenue anticipation borrowing, until the earlier of




(a)

the date when the anticipated revenue with respect to which the
borrowing was authorized is received, or




(b)

December 31 of the year following the year in which the debt was
incurred.




(3)

The minister may make a regulation under subsection (1) only if
satisfied that




(a)

the benefit of making the regulation is proportionate to the benefit
of the continued application of the enactment as it is before the
making of the regulation, and




(b)

the regulation is necessary to prevent, respond to or alleviate the
effects of the special circumstances.




(4)

A regulation under subsection (1)




(a)

must specify the following:




(i)

the municipality, regional district or greater board or class of
municipalities, regional districts or greater boards, including,
without limitation, a class that is all municipalities, all regional
districts or all greater boards, for which the payment date is
postponed;




(ii)

the calendar year in relation to which the debt is incurred as revenue
anticipation borrowing;




(iii)

whether the amount of any outstanding debt that remains unpaid after
the applicable date referred to in subsection (2) will or will not
limit the maximum allowable amount of revenue anticipation borrowing
that may be incurred in the subsequent year, and




(b)

may specify additional terms and conditions respecting the payment of
the debt.




(5)

A regulation under subsection (1) may provide that it applies despite
any of the following:




(a)

section 177
[revenue anticipation borrowing]
;




(b)

section 35
[borrowing in anticipation of revenue]
of the
Greater Vancouver Sewerage and Drainage District Act
;




(c)

section 58
[borrowing in anticipation of revenue]
of the
Greater Vancouver Water District Act
;




(d)

section 404
[revenue anticipation borrowing]
of the

Local Government Act

;




(e)

section 263
[borrowing pending collection of real-property taxes]
of the

Vancouver Charter

.






Regulations respecting borrowing from reserve funds in special
circumstances




191.2

(1)


The minister may make regulations respecting borrowing from reserve
funds to cover an operational shortfall in the year of borrowing if
the minister considers that special circumstances exist that result
in, or are anticipated to result in, an operational shortfall for




(a)

a municipality, including the City of Vancouver,




(b)

a regional district,




(c)

a greater board, or




(d)

an improvement district.




(2)

The minister may make a regulation under subsection (1) only if
satisfied that




(a)

the benefit of making the regulation is proportionate to the benefit
of the continued application of the enactment as it is before the
making of the regulation, and




(b)

the regulation is necessary to prevent, respond to or alleviate the
effects of the special circumstances.




(3)

A regulation under subsection (1)




(a)

must specify the following:




(i)

the municipality, regional district, greater board or improvement
district or class of municipalities, regional districts, greater
boards or improvement districts, including, without limitation, a
class that is all municipalities, all regional districts, all greater
boards or all improvement districts, that may borrow from reserve
funds;




(ii)

the calendar year in relation to which borrowing is authorized;




(iii)

the date by which the borrowed amount must be repaid to the reserve
fund from which it was borrowed;




(iv)

whether interest applies to the borrowed amount and, if so, the amount
of the applicable interest;




(v)

whether a penalty of no more than 5% of the amount outstanding after
the date specified under subparagraph (iii) applies to any amount
outstanding after that specified date such that it must be paid to the
reserve fund from which the amount was borrowed;




(vi)

whether any amount outstanding after the date specified under
subparagraph (iii) must be included as a cash transfer to reserves in
the year following that date in the financial plan, annual estimates
or budget, as applicable, and




(b)

may specify additional terms and conditions respecting the borrowing
from reserve funds.




(4)

A regulation under subsection (1) may provide that it applies despite
any of the following:




(a)

section 165
[financial plan]
;




(b)

section 189
[use of money in reserve funds]
;




(c)

section 34.1
[reserve and special reserve funds]
of the
Greater Vancouver Sewerage and Drainage District Act
;




(d)

section 53
[annual estimate]
of the
Greater Vancouver Sewerage and Drainage District Act
;




(e)

section 46
[annual estimates and fixing of rates]
of the
Greater Vancouver Water District Act
;




(f)

section 57.1
[reserve funds]
of the
Greater Vancouver Water District Act
;




(g)

section 374
[annual financial plan]
of the

Local Government Act

;




(h)

section 377
[financial management: application of Community Charter]
of the

Local Government Act

;




(i)

section 697 (2) (d)
[general powers of improvement district]
of the

Local Government Act

;




(j)

section 706
[renewal of works and related reserve funds]
of the

Local Government Act

;




(k)

section 193D (5) (d) and (8)

[reserve fund for accommodation to replace converted or demolished
single room accommodation]

of the

Vancouver Charter

;




(l)

section 201A
[property acquisition fund]
of the

Vancouver Charter

;




(m)

section 219
[Director of Finance to report on revenue and expenditure]
of the

Vancouver Charter

;




(n)

section 306 (7) to (9)

[reserve fund for off-street parking and transportation
infrastructure]

of the

Vancouver Charter

;




(o)

section 372
[annual estimates]
of the

Vancouver Charter

;




(p)

section 523D (16) to (17.1)
[development cost levy reserve funds]
of the

Vancouver Charter

.




Part 7 — Municipal Revenue



Division 1 — General





General revenue sources




192


Municipalities have the following revenue sources:




(a)

fees under Division 2
[Fees]
;




(b)

taxes under Division 3
[Property Value Taxes]
;




(c)

taxes under Division 4
[Parcel Taxes]
;




(d)

taxes under Division 5
[Local Service Taxes]
;




(e)

taxes under section 644
[taxation of utility company property]
of the

Local Government Act

;




(f)

fines and other penalties referred to in section 261
[payment of fines and other penalties to municipality]
;




(g)

revenues raised by other means authorized under this or another Act;




(h)

revenues received by way of agreement, enterprise, gift, grant or
otherwise.






Authority for fees and taxes




193

(1)


A municipality may not impose fees or taxes except as expressly
authorized under this or another Act.




(2)

Section 12 (1)
[authority to establish variations]
does not apply in relation to bylaws imposing taxes referred to in
section 192 (b), (c), (d) and (e).




(3)

A council may only provide an exemption from property taxes if
expressly authorized by this Part or another Act.




(4)

For the purposes of assessment, taxation, recovery of taxes and tax
sale, parcels combined under the

Assessment Act

to form one parcel are deemed to constitute one parcel.






Interest calculation




193.1


A municipality may, by bylaw, establish the manner in which interest
is calculated if




(a)

this or another Act provides a requirement or authority to apply
interest to an amount owed to, or owing by, the municipality, and




(b)

the manner in which interest is calculated is not otherwise provided
for.




Division 2 — Fees





Municipal fees




194

(1)


A council may, by bylaw, impose a fee payable in respect of




(a)

all or part of a service of the municipality,




(b)

the use of municipal property, or




(c)

the exercise of authority to regulate, prohibit or impose
requirements.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), a bylaw under this section may do one
or more of the following:




(a)

apply outside the municipality, if the bylaw is in relation to an
authority that may be exercised outside the municipality;




(b)

base the fee on any factor specified in the bylaw and, in addition to
the authority under section 12 (1)
[variation authority]
, establish different rates or levels of fees in relation to different
factors;




(c)

establish fees for obtaining copies of records that are available for
public inspection;




(d)

establish terms and conditions for payment of a fee, including
discounts, interest and penalties;




(e)

provide for the refund of a fee.




(3)

As exceptions but subject to subsection (3.1), a council may not
impose a fee under this section




(a)

in relation to Part 3
[Electors and Elections]
or 4
[Assent Voting]
of the

Local Government Act

, or




(b)

in relation to any other matter for which this or another Act
specifically authorizes the imposition of a fee.




(3.1)

A council may impose a fee referred to in section 59 (3)
[fees for providing disclosure records]
of the

Local Elections Campaign Financing Act

under either that section or this section.




(4)

A municipality must make available to the public, on request, a report
respecting how a fee imposed under this section was determined.




(5)

A municipality may not impose a highway toll unless specifically
provided by a Provincial or federal enactment.






Fees in relation to soil removal and deposit




195

(1)


A council may, by bylaw, do one or both of the following:




(a)

impose rates or levels of fees for a permit required under a municipal
bylaw for




(i)

the removal of soil from, or




(ii)

the deposit of soil or other material on


any land in the municipality or in any area of the municipality;




(b)

impose rates or levels of fees for the activities referred to in
paragraph (a).




(2)

Without limiting section 12 (1)
[variation authority]
, fees under subsection (1) may vary according to the quantity of soil
removed or the quantity of soil or other material deposited and may be
different for different areas of the municipality.




(3)

[Repealed 2014-14-27.]






Fees in relation to fire and security alarm systems




196

(1)


In relation to fire alarm systems and security alarm systems, a
council may, by bylaw, impose fees that are to be paid




(a)

by the owner or occupier of real property to which services are
provided by or on behalf of the municipality, including policing
services under section 3 (2) of the

Police Act

, in response to a false alarm of a system, or




(b)

by the persons who lease or otherwise provide these systems to the
owners or occupiers of real property, if services referred to in
paragraph (a) are provided in response to a false alarm of a system.




(2)

Without limiting section 12 (1)
[variation authority]
, a fee under subsection (1) may vary in relation to the number of
occasions on which services referred to in that subsection are
provided.




(3)

As an exception, a bylaw under this section does not apply to fire
alarm systems that are intended to alert only the occupants of the
dwelling unit in which they are installed.




Division 3 — Property Value Taxes





Annual property tax bylaw




197

(1)


Each year, after adoption of the financial plan but before May 15, a
council must, by bylaw, impose property value taxes for the year by
establishing tax rates for




(a)

the municipal revenue proposed to be raised for the year from property
value taxes, as provided in the financial plan, and




(b)

the amounts to be collected for the year by means of rates established
by the municipality to meet its taxing obligations in relation to
another local government or other public body.




(2)

Unless otherwise permitted by this or another Act, a property value
tax under subsection (1) must be imposed




(a)

on all land and improvements in the municipality, other than land and
improvements that are exempt under this or another Act in relation to
the tax, and




(b)

on the basis of the assessed value of the land and improvements.




(3)

For the purposes of subsection (1) (a), the bylaw may establish for
each property class




(a)

a single rate for all revenue to be raised, or




(b)

separate rates for revenue to be raised for different purposes but, in
this case, the relationships between the different property class
rates must be the same for all purposes.




(3.1)

In relation to tax rates established for the purposes of subsection
(1) (a), before adopting the bylaw, the council must consider the tax
rates proposed for each property class in conjunction with the
objectives and policies set out under section 165 (3.1) (b)
[property value tax distribution]
in its financial plan.




(4)

For the purposes of subsection (1) (b), for each local government or
other public body in relation to which the amounts are to be
collected,




(a)

the bylaw must establish separate rates for each property class, and




(b)

the relationships between the different property class rates must be
the same as the relationships established under subsection (3) unless
otherwise required under this or another Act.




(5)

If the amount of revenue raised in any year for a body under
subsection (1) (b) is more or less than the amount that is required to
meet the municipality's obligation, the difference must be used to
adjust the rate under subsection (1) (b) for the next year.




(6)

The minimum amount of tax under subsection (1) in any year on a parcel
of real property is $1.




(7)

Property value taxes under subsection (1) are deemed to be imposed on
January 1 of the year in which the bylaw under that subsection is
adopted, unless expressly provided otherwise by the bylaw or by the
enactment under which they are imposed.






Assessment averaging and phasing options




198

(1)


Subject to subsection (1.1), instead of imposing tax rates on the
assessed value of land, an annual property tax bylaw may impose rates
applicable to one or more property classes by assessment averaging or
assessment phasing in accordance with the regulations under subsection
(2).




(1.1)

Subsection (1) does not apply to a tax rate imposed by the
municipality to collect a tax imposed by the Province under section
120.1 of the

School Act

.




(2)

For the purpose of allowing municipalities to moderate the impact of
sudden changes in the assessed value of land, the Lieutenant Governor
in Council may make regulations as follows:




(a)

establishing formulas for determining modified assessed values that
are to be used to impose property value taxes and authorizing
variation of those formulas;




(b)

exempting, or authorizing the exemption of, particular types of
property within a property class, or of property in prescribed
circumstances, from the application of a bylaw under this section;




(c)

providing for a process to review and correct errors made in applying
a bylaw under this section to any property;




(d)

establishing restrictions, conditions and requirements relating to the
imposition of tax rates under this section;




(e)

in relation to taxes that are imposed under other enactments and
collected by a municipality, providing that, despite the other
enactments,




(i)

the values imposed under this section apply, and




(ii)

the rates to be imposed are to be determined using those values.






Development potential relief




198.1

(1)


In this section:



"development potential"

means the difference between




(a)

the assessed value of a property, and




(b)

the actual value of the property determined taking into consideration
only the actual use of the land and improvements that comprise the
property and not taking into consideration any other use to which the
land or improvements could be put;



"eligible land"

has the meaning given to it in subsection (5);



"eligible occupier"

means a tenant or owner-occupier of an improvement described in
subsection (5) (b) (i).




(2)

For the purpose of relieving the impact of development potential on
eligible occupiers, an annual property tax bylaw may impose property
taxes under section 197 (1) (a) on eligible land at reduced
tax rates.




(3)

An annual property tax bylaw that provides relief under this section




(a)

must identify the properties for which relief is provided,




(b)

must specify for each of those properties the percentage of the
eligible land, comprising the property, that is to be taxed at the
reduced tax rates,




(c)

must establish the reduced tax rates as follows:




(i)

a tax rate for property class 5 that is lower than the tax rate
established under section 197 (3) for that property class or, if
separate rates are established, the sum of those rates;




(ii)

a tax rate for property class 6 that is lower than the tax rate
established under section 197 (3) for that property class or, if
separate rates are established, the sum of those rates, and




(d)

may require an owner of a property identified under paragraph (a) to
give notice of the relief to the eligible occupiers of the property.




(4)

An annual property tax bylaw may specify different percentages under
subsection (3) (b) for different areas, properties or kinds of
properties.




(5)

Land is eligible for relief under this section if




(a)

the land is classified as property class 5 or 6, and




(b)

the property that includes the land meets all of the following
criteria:




(i)

the property includes an improvement that




(A)

is classified as property class 5 or 6, and




(B)

was in use on October 31 of the taxation year immediately preceding
the taxation year to which the annual property tax bylaw relates;




(ii)

the property has a land-value ratio equal to or greater
than 0.95, determined by taking the quotient of




(A)

the assessed value of the land that is classified as property
class 5 or 6, and




(B)

the assessed value of the land and improvements that are classified as
property class 5 or 6;




(iii)

the property is not disqualified under subsection (6).




(6)

A property is disqualified from relief under this section if




(a)

relief under this section was provided for the property for a taxation
year that is more than 4 or a prescribed number of years,
whichever is greater, preceding the taxation year to which the annual
property tax bylaw relates, or




(b)

the property includes any of the following:




(i)

land or improvements classified as property class 2, 3, 4, 7, 8
or 9;




(ii)

land or improvements that are exempt under this Act or another
enactment from taxation under section 197 (1) (a) of this
Act, other than under a prescribed exemption;




(iii)

land classified as property class 5 or 6 on which tax is imposed in
accordance with section 198 of this Act;




(iv)

property designated under section 20.2
[ski hill property]
or 20.5
[restricted-use property]
of the

Assessment Act

;




(v)

prescribed property.




(7)

The following provisions do not apply in relation to relief provided
under this section:




(a)

section 25 (1)
[prohibition against assistance to business]
;




(b)

section 197 (3) (b)
[annual property tax bylaw — limits on rates]
.




(8)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations as follows:




(a)

prescribing a number of years for the purposes of
subsection (6) (a);




(b)

prescribing exemptions for the purposes of
subsection (6) (b) (ii);




(c)

prescribing kinds of properties for the purposes of
subsection (6) (b) (v).






Property tax rates regulations




199


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations respecting tax
rates that may be established by an annual property tax bylaw,
including regulations doing one or more of the following:




(a)

prescribing limits on tax rates;




(b)

prescribing relationships between tax rates;




(c)

prescribing formulas for calculating the limits or relationships
referred to in paragraph (a) or (b);




(d)

allowing the inspector under prescribed circumstances to vary, by
order, a limit, relationship or formula prescribed under this section.




Division 4 — Parcel Taxes





Parcel tax bylaw




200

(1)


A council may, by bylaw, impose a parcel tax in accordance with this
Division to provide all or part of the funding for a service.




(2)

A bylaw under subsection (1) must do the following:




(a)

state the service for which the tax is imposed;




(b)

state the years for which the tax is imposed;




(c)

identify the parcel tax roll under this Division that is to be used to
impose the tax;




(d)

state the basis on which the tax is to be imposed, as referred to in
section 202 (2)
[basis of taxation for parcel taxes]
;




(e)

impose the tax in accordance with subsection (3).




(3)

A bylaw under subsection (1) must impose the parcel tax as follows:




(a)

in the case of a tax to be imposed on the basis provided under section
202 (2) (a)
[single amount per parcel]
, by establishing the amount to be paid as tax;




(b)

in the case of a tax to be imposed on the basis provided under section
202 (2) (b) or (c)
[taxable area or taxable frontage]
, by establishing either




(i)

the rate of tax to be paid per unit of taxable area or taxable
frontage, or




(ii)

rates of tax to be paid for different ranges of taxable area or
taxable frontage.




(4)

The municipality must make available to the public, on request, a
report respecting how amounts or rates were determined for the
purposes of subsection (3).




(5)

In each year that a parcel tax is imposed under this Division, it is
deemed to be imposed on January 1 of the year, unless expressly
provided otherwise by the bylaw under subsection (1).






Property subject to parcel tax




201

(1)


Unless otherwise permitted under this or another Act, a parcel tax
under this Division must be imposed on all parcels within the
municipality, other than those that are exempt from the tax.




(2)

In the case of a service that is provided to land or improvements, a
parcel tax under this Division may be imposed only on parcels that
have the opportunity to be provided with the service, whether or not
they are in fact being provided with the service.




(3)

A bylaw under section 200
[parcel tax bylaw]
may provide for waiving or reducing the tax if the owner or a previous
owner of the parcel has




(a)

provided all or part of the service at the owner's expense, or




(b)

already paid towards the cost of the service on terms and conditions
specified in the bylaw.






Parcel tax roll for purpose of imposing tax




202

(1)


A council may, by bylaw, direct the preparation of a parcel tax roll
for the purposes of imposing a parcel tax.




(2)

A bylaw under subsection (1) must establish the basis on which a
parcel tax may be imposed using the parcel tax roll, which may be on
the basis of one or more of the following:




(a)

a single amount for each parcel;




(b)

the taxable area of the parcel;




(c)

the taxable frontage of the parcel.




(3)

If the bylaw provides a basis under subsection (2) (b) or (c), it must
establish how the taxable area or taxable frontage of a parcel is to
be determined, subject to the following:




(a)

the methods for determination must be based on the physical
characteristics of the parcel and may be different for parcels having
different classes of physical characteristics;




(b)

the basis established for parcels having one class of physical
characteristics must be fair and equitable as compared with the basis
established for parcels having other classes of physical
characteristics.






Content of parcel tax roll




203

(1)


A parcel tax roll must set out the following:




(a)

the parcels on which the tax is to be imposed;




(b)

the name and address of the owner of each parcel;




(c)

unless the tax is imposed on the basis of a single amount for each
parcel, the taxable area or the taxable frontage of each parcel, as
applicable;




(d)

if the name of a holder of a registered charge is included on the
assessment roll under section 4 of the

Assessment Act

for a parcel, the name and address of that person.




(2)

The collector may correct errors on the parcel tax roll at any time
before the roll is authenticated under section 206.




(3)

Once it has been prepared by the collector, the parcel tax roll must
be available for public inspection.




(4)

If requested by an owner, the collector must amend a parcel tax roll
that is to be available for public inspection by omitting or obscuring
the address of the owner or other information about the owner in order
to protect the privacy or security of the owner.




(5)

A request under subsection (4) continues to apply to other parcel tax
rolls under this Division until the request is rescinded.






Parcel tax roll review panel




204

(1)


Before a parcel tax is imposed for the first time, a parcel tax roll
review panel must consider any complaints respecting the parcel tax
roll and must authenticate the roll in accordance with this Division.




(2)

For the purposes of this Division, the council must




(a)

appoint at least 3 persons as the members of the parcel tax roll
review panel,




(b)

establish the time and, if applicable, place for the sitting of the
panel,




(c)

determine whether the sitting will be conducted by means of electronic
or other communication facilities, and




(d)

publish notice of the sitting in accordance with section 94
[public notice]
.




(2.1)

A notice under subsection (2) (d) must state the following:




(a)

the time and, if applicable, place of the sitting of the review panel;




(b)

if the sitting is conducted by means of electronic or other
communication facilities, the way in which the sitting is to be
conducted by those means.




(3)

At least 14 days before the date set for the sitting of the parcel tax
roll review panel, the collector must mail to the owner of every
parcel of land that is to be taxed a notice stating




(a)

the service in relation to which the parcel tax is to be imposed,




(b)

the taxable area or the taxable frontage, if applicable,




(c)

the time and, if applicable, place of the first sitting of the review
panel,




(c.1)

if the first sitting of the review panel is conducted by means of
electronic or other communication facilities, the way in which the
first sitting is to be conducted by those means, and




(d)

that the parcel tax roll is available for inspection at the municipal
hall during its regular office hours.






Review panel to hear complaints and make corrections




205

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), a person may make a complaint to the parcel
tax roll review panel on one or more of the following grounds:




(a)

there is an error or omission respecting a name or address on the
parcel tax roll;




(b)

there is an error or omission respecting the inclusion of a parcel;




(c)

there is an error or omission respecting the taxable area or the
taxable frontage of a parcel;




(d)

an exemption has been improperly allowed or disallowed.




(2)

A complaint must not be heard by the parcel tax roll review panel
unless written notice of the complaint has been given to the
municipality at least 48 hours before the time set for the first
sitting of the review panel.




(3)

The parcel tax roll review panel may direct the correction of the
parcel tax roll respecting any matter referred to in subsection (1).




(4)

As a limit on subsection (3), a correction that would




(a)

include a parcel on the parcel tax roll that had not been included
before, or




(b)

increase the taxable area or taxable frontage of a parcel on the
parcel tax roll


must not be directed until 5 days after notice has been mailed to the
owner of the parcel.




(5)

The notice under subsection (4) must state




(a)

the intention of the parcel tax roll review panel,




(b)

the time and, if applicable, place set for the panel to give its
direction, and




(c)

if the direction is given by means of electronic or other
communication facilities, the way in which the direction is to be
given by those means.




(6)

The following sections of the

Assessment Act

apply in relation to the hearing of complaints by a parcel tax roll
review panel:




(a)

section 32 (3), (4) and (5)
[complaints by local government or assessor]
;




(b)

section 33 (3)
[contents of notice of complaint]
;




(c)

section 35 (1) (b) and (c) and (2)
[notice of hearing to complainant]
;




(d)

section 37
[notice of withdrawal of complaint]
;




(e)

section 38 (2) (a), (7) (a) and (b) and (9)
[review panel procedures]
;




(f)

section 40
[burden of proof]
.




(7)

In applying a section of the

Assessment Act

referred to in subsection (6) of this section,




(a)

a reference to a complaint is to be read as a reference to a complaint
under subsection (1) of this section,




(b)

a reference to the assessment roll is to be read as a reference to a
parcel tax roll,




(c)

a reference to the assessor is to be read as a reference to the
collector,




(d)

a reference to a review panel is to be read as a reference to a parcel
tax roll review panel, and




(e)

a reference to a property is to be read as a reference to a parcel.






Daily schedule of review panel




205.1

(1)


The daily schedule of matters for review and consideration by a parcel
tax roll review panel, as set by the collector, must be posted




(a)

at the place where the parcel tax roll review panel is to meet, if
sittings of the parcel tax roll review panel are conducted in person,
or




(b)

at the public notice posting places, if sittings of the parcel tax
roll review panel are conducted by means of electronic or other
communication facilities.




(2)

The parcel tax roll review panel must deal with complaints and
collector recommendations in accordance with the daily schedule
referred to in subsection (1) unless the parcel tax roll review panel
considers a change in the daily schedule necessary or desirable in the
circumstances.




(3)

For the purposes of subsection (2), the chair of the parcel tax roll
review panel may adjourn the sittings of the parcel tax roll review
panel




(a)

from day to day or from time to time, and




(b)

if the sittings of the parcel tax roll review panel are conducted in
person, from place to place within the geographic area of the parcel
tax roll review panel's jurisdiction.






Authentication of parcel tax roll




206

(1)


The chair of the parcel tax roll review panel must review the parcel
tax roll to confirm that the directed corrections have been made and
must report this to the review panel.




(2)

After receiving the report, the review panel must confirm and
authenticate the parcel tax roll by certificate signed by a majority
of its members.




(3)

Within 10 days after a parcel tax roll is authenticated, the collector
must mail notice of the decision made by the parcel tax roll review
panel, or of its refusal to adjudicate the complaint made, to




(a)

the owner of the property to which the decision relates, and




(b)

the complainant, if the complainant is not the owner.




(4)

Notice under subsection (3) must include a statement that the decision
may be appealed to the Supreme Court in accordance with section 207.






Appeal to Supreme Court from review panel decision




207

(1)


A decision of the parcel tax roll review panel may be appealed to the
Supreme Court by a person entitled to notice under section 206 (3) or
by the municipality.




(2)

In order for a person entitled to notice to appeal a decision, within
10 days after the notice is mailed or otherwise delivered to the
person, the person must serve on the municipality a written notice of
intention to appeal that




(a)

is signed by the person, or by the person's solicitor or an agent
authorized in writing, and




(b)

sets out the grounds of appeal.




(3)

In order for the municipality to appeal a decision, within 10 days
after the date on which the parcel tax roll is authenticated, it must
serve a written notice as described in subsection (2) on the property
owner affected by the appeal and, if applicable, on the complainant.




(4)

The court must set a date for hearing the appeal, notice of which must
be given to the municipality, the property owner and, if applicable,
the complainant.




(5)

On an appeal under this section,




(a)

the collector must produce before the court the parcel tax roll and
all records in that officer's possession affecting the matter, and




(b)

the court must hear the appeal, including evidence given on oath
before it, in a summary manner.




(6)

The court may adjourn the hearing of an appeal under this section and
defer judgment in its discretion, but so that all appeals may be
determined within 30 days from the authentication of the parcel tax
roll by the parcel tax roll review panel.




(7)

If an appeal is not decided within the time referred to in subsection
(6), the decision of the parcel tax roll review panel stands.




(8)

A decision of the Supreme Court under this section may be appealed on
a question of law to the Court of Appeal with leave of a justice of
the Court of Appeal.






Updating the parcel tax roll




208

(1)


The collector may amend the parcel tax roll in relation to a matter
referred to in section 205 (1)
[grounds for complaints to review panel]
on receiving a request under subsection (2) or on the collector's own
initiative.




(2)

A person who owns a parcel included on a parcel tax roll may request
that the roll be amended under this section respecting a matter
referred to in section 205 (1), but only in relation to the person's
own property.




(3)

In each year after the first year in which a parcel tax is imposed,
the municipality must publish in accordance with section 94
[public notice]
a notice indicating the following:




(a)

the parcel tax roll is available for inspection at the municipal hall
during its regular office hours;




(b)

a person who owns a parcel included on the parcel tax roll may request
that the roll be amended respecting a matter referred to in section
205 (1)
[complaints to review panel]
, but only in relation to the person's own property;




(c)

the time by which a request must be made in order to be considered for
that year.




(4)

A request under subsection (2) must be made in writing to the
municipality before the time specified in the notice.




(5)

Notice of an amendment, or a refusal to make an amendment requested
under subsection (2), must be mailed to the owners of parcels in
relation to which the amendment was made or the request received, and
for the purposes of sending notices to these owners, section 205 (4)
and (5)
[notice of sitting by review panel]
applies.




(6)

A person who is an owner referred to in subsection (5) may make a
complaint on one or more of the grounds set out in section 205 (1)
[complaints to review panel]
, but only in relation to the person's own property.




(7)

A complaint under subsection (6) is made by giving written notice of
the complaint to the municipality within 30 days after the date on
which the notice under subsection (5) was delivered.




(8)

If a municipality receives a complaint in accordance with subsection
(7), it must establish a parcel tax roll review panel to deal with the
complaint, and for these purposes sections 205 to 207
[review panel process]
apply.




(9)

A parcel tax roll review panel under subsection (8) only has authority
to amend the parcel tax roll in relation to parcels in respect of
which a complaint under subsection (6) has been made.




(10)

If no complaints under subsection (6) are received, the parcel tax
roll as it is amended under subsection (1) is deemed to have been
authenticated by a parcel tax review panel.






Validity of parcel tax roll




209


Subject to amendment under section 207
[appeal to Supreme Court]
and despite any omission, defect or error in procedure, in a parcel
tax roll, in a notice or in the omission to deliver a notice,




(a)

the initial parcel tax roll, as authenticated by the parcel tax roll
review panel, is valid and binding on all parties concerned until
amended under section 208
[updating the parcel tax roll]
, and




(b)

any subsequent parcel tax roll prepared under section 208 that is
authenticated or deemed to be authenticated by a parcel tax roll
review panel under that section is valid and binding on all parties
concerned until any further amendments are made under that section.




Division 5 — Local Service Taxes





Authority for local area services




210

(1)


A local area service is a municipal service that is to be paid for in
whole or in part by a local service tax under section 216
[local service taxes]
.




(2)

The only services that may be provided as local area services are




(a)

services that the council considers provide particular benefit to part
of the municipality, and




(b)

business improvement area services under section 215
[business improvement areas]
.




(3)

Nothing in this Division restricts a municipality from recovering part
of the costs of a local area service by means of any other source of
municipal revenue.






Requirements for establishing a local area service




211

(1)


A municipality must adopt a bylaw to establish a local area service,
and may only do this if




(a)

the service and its cost recovery methods have been proposed by
petition in accordance with section 212
[petition for local area service]
,




(b)

the service and its cost recovery methods have been proposed by
council initiative in accordance with section 213

[local area service on council initiative — subject to petition
against]

, or




(c)

the bylaw has received assent of the electors in accordance with
section 214

[local area service on council initiative — subject to elector
assent]

.




(2)

The bylaw establishing a local area service must




(a)

describe the service,




(b)

define the boundaries of the local service area,




(c)

identify the methods of cost recovery for the service, including the
form of local service tax and the portion of the costs of the service
that are to be recovered by the local service tax, and




(d)

if applicable, identify the portion of the costs of the service that
are to be recovered by a general property tax.




(3)

If the minister exercises authority under section 137 (2)
[power to amend or repeal bylaws]
in relation to a bylaw establishing a local area service, the
restriction in subsection (1) of this section does not apply.






Petition for local area service




212

(1)


The persons who may petition for a local area service are the owners
of parcels that would be subject to the local service tax for the
service.




(2)

Each page of a petition for a local area service must do the
following:




(a)

describe the service in general terms;




(b)

define the boundaries of the local service area;




(c)

provide an estimate of the costs of the service;




(d)

if it is proposed that the municipality borrow for the purposes of the
service and all or part of the costs of the borrowing are to be
recovered by means of the local service tax, indicate




(i)

the total amount proposed to be borrowed under the bylaw,




(ii)

the maximum term for which the debentures may be issued, and




(iii)

the portion of those costs that are to be recovered by a local service
tax;




(e)

indicate the proposed methods of cost recovery for the service,
including the form of local service tax and the portion of the costs
of the service that are to be recovered by the local service tax;




(f)

if applicable, indicate what portion of the costs are proposed to be
recovered by a general municipal tax;




(g)

include any other information that council requires.




(3)

In order for a petition for a local area service to be certified as
sufficient and valid,




(a)

the petition must be signed by the owners of at least 50% of the
parcels that would be subject to the local service tax, and




(b)

the persons signing must be the owners of parcels that in total
represent at least 50% of the assessed value of land and improvements
that would be subject to the local service tax.




(4)

The corporate officer must determine the sufficiency and validity of a
petition to a council and must certify this determination.




(5)

A certified determination under subsection (4) is final and
conclusive.




(6)

The following apply for the purposes of a petition under this section:




(a)

if 2 or more persons are owners of a parcel,




(i)

they must be considered as one owner only,




(ii)

they are not entitled to petition unless a majority of them concurs,
and




(iii)

unless a petition is signed by a majority of them, their signatures
must be disregarded in determining whether the petition is sufficient;




(b)

a person who would be liable for a local service tax by reason of
being the holder or occupier of land held in the manner referred to in
Division 8
[Tax Liability of Occupiers]
of this Part may sign the petition as if the person were the owner;




(c)

in relation to persons referred to in paragraph (b), in computing the
values of the land and improvements, only the assessed value of the
person's interest in them is to be used.






Local area service on council initiative — subject to petition against




213

(1)


If a council proposes to undertake a local area service on its own
initiative in accordance with this section, it must give notice of
this intention




(a)

in accordance with section 94
[public notice]
, and




(b)

to the owners of parcels that would be subject to the local service
tax.




(2)

The notice under subsection (1) must include




(a)

the information required under section 212 (2)
[information requirements for petition]
,




(b)

if the council is proposing that all or part of the costs may be
waived or reduced in accordance with section 201 (3)
[property subject to parcel tax]
, the amount that the property owner will be required to pay for this
purpose, and




(c)

a statement indicating that the council may proceed with establishing
the service unless a petition against the service is presented within
30 days after notice has been given in accordance with this section.




(3)

For the purposes of subsection (1) (b), the corporate officer must
mail the notice to the applicable address as set out in the last
revised assessment roll.




(4)

Council may proceed with the local area service in accordance with the
notice unless it receives a sufficient petition against the service
within 30 days after the second publication under subsection (1) (a).




(4.1)

If the notice under subsection (1) (a) is published in accordance with
a bylaw adopted under section 94.2
[bylaw to provide for alternative means of publication]
, the second publication is considered to occur on the date when the
notice has been published by 2 of the means of publication specified
in the bylaw.




(5)

Section 212 (3) to (6)
[rules respecting petitions for local service]
applies to a petition under this section.




(6)

If a council has been prevented from undertaking a local area service
because of a petition under this section, the council must not propose
the same service on its own initiative within a period of one year
after the presentation of the petition.




(7)

As an exception to subsection (6), a council may again propose a local
area service on its own initiative within the period referred to in
that subsection if the service is varied from or less expensive than
that originally proposed to be undertaken.






Local area service on council initiative — subject to elector assent




214

(1)


If a council proposes to undertake a local area service on its own
initiative in accordance with this section, the bylaw establishing the
service may only be adopted with the assent of the electors in the
local service area.




(2)

As an exception, a council may not undertake a business improvement
area service under this section.






Business improvement areas




215

(1)


In this section:



"business improvement area"

means the local service area for a service under this section;



"business improvement area service"

means the provision of grants under subsection (2);



"business promotion scheme"

means




(a)

carrying out studies or making reports respecting one or more areas in
the municipality where business or commerce is carried on,




(b)

improving, beautifying or maintaining streets, sidewalks or
municipally owned land, buildings or other structures in one or more
business improvement areas,




(c)

the removal of graffiti from buildings and other structures in one or
more business improvement areas,




(d)

conserving heritage property in one or more business improvement
areas, and




(e)

encouraging business in one or more business improvement areas.




(2)

A council may grant money to a corporation or other organization that
has, as one of its aims, functions or purposes, the planning and
implementation of a business promotion scheme.




(3)

All or part of a grant paid under subsection (2) must be recovered by
means of a local service tax.




(4)

The authority under subsection (2) is an exception to section 25 (1)
[prohibition against assistance to business]
.




(5)

In addition to the requirements under section 211 (2)
[requirements for establishing a local area service]
, the bylaw establishing a business improvement area service




(a)

must identify the business promotion scheme for which and the
organization to which the money will be granted under subsection (2),




(b)

must establish the maximum amount of money to be granted and the
maximum term over which it may be granted, and




(c)

may set conditions and limitations on the receipt and expenditure of
the money.




(6)

Money granted under this section must be expended only




(a)

by the organization to which it is granted,




(b)

in accordance with the conditions and limitations set out in the
bylaw, and




(c)

for the business promotion scheme described in the bylaw.






Local service taxes




216

(1)


In all cases, all or part of the costs of a local area service may be
recovered, in accordance with the establishing bylaw for the service,
by means of either or both of




(a)

a property value tax under Division 3 of this Part, which may be
imposed on land, on improvements, or on both, and




(b)

a parcel tax under Division 4 of this Part,


that are imposed only within the local service area.




(2)

In the case of a business improvement area service, in addition to the
taxes referred to in subsection (1), all or part of the costs of the
service may be recovered by means of a tax, based on any factor set
out in the establishing bylaw, that is imposed only within the
business improvement area.




(3)

A local service tax under subsection (1) or (2) in relation to a
business improvement area




(a)

may only be imposed on land or improvements, or both, that are




(i)

used during the year to operate a business of a class specified in the
bylaw, or




(ii)

classified as Class 5
[light industry]
or 6
[business and other]
property class, and




(b)

may have different rates for different classes of business, as those
classes are established by the bylaw.




(4)

Subject to this section, the other provisions of this Part apply in
respect of a local service tax.




(5)

Revenue from a local service tax may only be expended for the local
area service in relation to which it is imposed.






Borrowing in relation to a local area service




217

(1)


If all of the costs of borrowing for the purposes of a local area
service are to be recovered by a local service tax, the loan
authorization bylaw does not require the approval of the electors
under section 180

[elector approval required for some loan authorization bylaws]

, but it may only be adopted if




(a)

the borrowing has been proposed by petition in accordance with section
212
[petition for local area service]
,




(b)

the borrowing has been proposed by council initiative in accordance
with section 213

[local area service on council initiative — subject to petition
against]

, or




(c)

the bylaw has received assent of the electors in accordance with
section 214

[local area service on council initiative — subject to elector
assent]

.




(2)

If part of the costs of borrowing for the purposes of a local area
service are to be recovered by a local service tax,




(a)

a separate loan authorization bylaw is required for the borrowing in
relation to which costs are to be recovered by the local service tax,
with the bylaw adopted in accordance with subsection (1), and




(b)

a separate loan authorization bylaw is required for the borrowing in
relation to which costs are to be recovered by any other means, with
the bylaw adopted in accordance with Part 6
[Financial Management]
.






Enlargement or reduction of local service area




218

(1)


This section applies to the amendment of the bylaw establishing a
local area service that has the effect of enlarging or reducing the
size of the local service area.




(2)

The requirements under section 211 (1)
[requirements for establishing a local area service]
apply only in relation to the area to be included or excluded from the
local service area and not to the rest of the local service area.




(3)

If a local service area has been enlarged or reduced under this
section, the liabilities incurred on behalf of the area as it was
before enlargement or reduction must be borne by all the owners of
parcels of land in the area as enlarged or reduced.






Merging of local service areas




219

(1)


A council may, by bylaw, merge 2 or more local service areas into one
local service area.




(2)

A bylaw under subsection (1) may provide that repayment of any debt of
one or more of the merged local service areas that is outstanding at
the time of merger is to continue to be borne by the applicable former
local service area as if that area continued to exist.




(3)

Section 211 (1)
[requirements for establishing a local area service]
does not apply to the bylaw under subsection (1) of this section if




(a)

there is no outstanding debt of any of the local service areas being
merged,




(b)

the outstanding debt of each of those local service areas is kept
separate under subsection (2), or




(c)

the bylaw establishing the service currently includes a provision for
merger with one or more other local service areas and the merger is in
accordance with the provision.




(4)

If section 211 (1) applies to a bylaw under this section, the approval
of the electors must be obtained separately for each local service
area being merged.




Division 6 — Statutory Exemptions





General statutory exemptions




220

(1)


Unless otherwise provided in this Act or the

Local Government Act

, the following property is exempt from taxation to the extent
indicated:




(a)

land, improvements or both vested in or held by the Provincial
government;




(b)

land, improvements or both vested in or held by




(i)

the municipality, or




(ii)

the municipality jointly with another municipality or a regional
district;




(c)

land, improvements or both exempt from municipal taxation by another
Act;




(d)

land, improvements or both




(i)

of a public library under the

Library Act

, or




(ii)

vested in or held by a municipality and occupied by a public library
under the

Library Act

;




(e)

land, improvements or both of an Indian, in a municipality
incorporated under section 9 (1) of the

Local Government Act

, who is an owner under the letters patent, except for taxation under
section 197 (1) (a)
[municipal property taxes]
;




(f)

land, improvements or both in a municipality, other than a
municipality incorporated under section 9 (1) of the

Local Government Act

, that




(i)

are held in trust by the Crown for a band of Indians, and




(ii)

are not leased to or occupied by a person who is not a member of the
band;




(g)

the land actually used and occupied for the interment of the dead or
in respect of which a certificate of public interest under the

Cremation, Interment and Funeral Services Act

has been issued by the director under that Act, together with the
improvements included as part of the cemetery, mausoleum or
columbarium under that Act, other than




(i)

premises used for the provision of funeral services within the meaning
of that Act, except any part of those premises used for the provision
of bereavement rites and ceremonies,




(ii)

crematoriums within the meaning of that Act, and




(iii)

premises, or that part of premises, used primarily for the sale of
cemetery services or funeral services within the meaning of that Act;




(h)

a building set apart for public worship, and the land on which the
building stands, if title to the land is registered in the name of




(i)

the religious organization using the building,




(ii)

trustees for the use of that organization, or




(iii)

a religious organization granting a lease of the building and land to
be used solely for public worship;




(i)

a building that was constructed or reconstructed with the assistance
of aid granted by the Provincial government after January 1, 1947 but
before April 1, 1974 and that is owned and used exclusively without
profit by a corporation to provide homes for elderly citizens,
together with the land on which the building stands;




(j)

a building set apart and used solely as a hospital under the

Hospital Act

, except a private hospital under that Act, together with the land on
which the building stands;




(k)

land and improvements for future hospital requirements that are




(i)

designated for the purposes of this section by the minister
responsible for the

Hospital Act

, and




(ii)

vested in, or held by, a society or corporation that is not operated
for profit and that has as an object the operation of a hospital;




(l)

a building owned by an incorporated institution of learning that is
regularly giving children instruction accepted as equivalent to that
given in a public school, and that is actually occupied and wholly in
use by the incorporated institution for the purpose of giving the
instruction, together with




(i)

the land on which the building stands, and




(ii)

an area of the land surrounding the land referred to in
subparagraph (i) or improvements on the area of land, or both,
that are owned by the incorporated institution and that are reasonably
necessary for the purposes of the incorporated institution, including,
without limiting this, the following areas of land and improvements:




(A)

playing fields, athletic grounds and facilities, playgrounds and
improvements related to any of them;




(B)

storage, maintenance and administrative facilities;




(C)

dormitories for students;




(D)

parking lots, walkways and roads;




(m)

fruit trees;




(n)

improvements, other than dwellings and the fixtures, machinery and
similar things mentioned in paragraph (o), erected on farm land and
used exclusively to operate a farm, up to but not exceeding the
greater of the following:




(i)

87.5% of the assessed value;




(ii)

an assessed value of $50 000;




(o)

fixtures, machinery and similar things located on farm land and used
exclusively to operate the farm that, if erected or placed, in or on
land, a building or fixture or structure in or on it, would, as
between landlord and tenant, be removable by the tenant;




(p)

an improvement designed, constructed or installed to provide emergency
protection for persons or domestic animals in the event of
an emergency within the meaning of the



Emergency and Disaster Management Act



;




(q)

sewage treatment plants, manure storage facilities, effluent
reservoirs, effluent lagoons, deodorizing equipment, dust and
particulate matter eliminating equipment;




(r)

a floating dry dock, other than the onshore facilities of the floating
dry dock, if the floating dry dock has a lift capacity greater than
20 000 tonnes.




(2)

Septic disposal systems are not exempt from taxation under subsection
(1) (q).




(3)

An exemption under subsection (1) (b) to (p) does not include
exemption from a fee.




(4)

An exemption under subsection (1) (b), (d), (g), (h), (i) or (l)
extends only to taxation under section 197 (1) (a)
[municipal property taxes]
.






Grandparented pollution abatement exemptions




221

(1)


In this section:



"final determination under the
Assessment Act
"

means a determination on the assessment roll for a taxation year,
subject to any change that is finally determined under the

Assessment Act

by revised assessment roll, by supplementary assessment roll or on
further appeal;



"pollution abatement provision"

means section 339 (1) (q) of the

Local Government Act

, section 15 (1) (s) of the

Taxation (Rural Area) Act

or section 396 (1) (e.01) of the

Vancouver Charter

, as those provisions read before their repeal and replacement by
the
Budget Measures Implementation Act, 1997
.




(2)

Land and improvements that were exempt for the 1996 taxation year
under a pollution abatement provision are exempt to the extent
established by subsection (3), if




(a)

the land and improvements were exempt under that provision for the
1996 taxation year on final determination under the

Assessment Act

, and




(b)

as applicable,




(i)

for an exemption in relation to land only, the land continues to be
exclusively or primarily used for the purpose of abating pollution,




(ii)

for an exemption in relation to improvements only, the improvements
continue to be exclusively or primarily used for the purpose of
abating pollution, or




(iii)

for an exemption in relation to land and improvements, the land and
improvements continue to be exclusively or primarily used for the
purpose of abating pollution.




(3)

The amount of an exemption under subsection (2) for a taxation year is
limited to the portion of the assessed value of land and improvements
that is the least of the following:




(a)

the portion that the British Columbia Assessment Authority determines
is attributable to the use of pollution abatement for that taxation
year, subject to final determination under the

Assessment Act

;




(b)

the portion that was exempt for pollution abatement purposes for the
immediately preceding taxation year on final determination under the

Assessment Act

;




(c)

the portion that was exempt for the 1996 taxation year on final
determination under the

Assessment Act

.






Grandparented dust and particulate matter eliminator exemptions




221.1

(1)


In this section:



"final determination under the
Assessment Act
"

means a determination on the assessment roll for a taxation year,
subject to any change that is finally determined under the

Assessment Act

by revised assessment roll, by supplementary assessment roll or on
further appeal;



"new exemption provision"

means the aspect of section 339 (1) (p) of the

Local Government Act

, as that provision read after its repeal and replacement by the
Budget Measures Implementation Act, 2003
, that referred to "dust and particulate matter eliminating equipment"
and that is continued by section 220 (1) (q) of this Act;



"previous exemption provision"

means the aspect of section 339 (1) (p) of the

Local Government Act

, as that provision read before its repeal and replacement by the
Budget Measures Implementation Act, 2003
, that referred to "dust and particulate matter eliminators".




(2)

Subject to subsection (3), a dust and particulate matter eliminator is
exempt from taxation if the eliminator




(a)

was, on final determination under the

Assessment Act

, exempt for the 2003 taxation year under the previous exemption
provision,




(b)

was not exempt for the 2004 taxation year under the new exemption
provision because it was not dust and particulate matter eliminating
equipment, and




(c)

continues to be a dust and particulate matter eliminator.




(3)

The exemption under subsection (2) does not apply to any increase in
assessed value that is attributable to changes to or replacement of
the dust and particulate matter eliminator.






Phased farm property tax exemption




222

(1)


This section applies to real property




(a)

that is in a newly incorporated municipality, or in an area newly
included in a municipality, and




(b)

that was, immediately before the incorporation or inclusion, exempt
from taxation because of section 15 (1) (f) or (f.1) of the

Taxation (Rural Area) Act

but that, after the incorporation or inclusion, is not exempt from
taxation under this Act.




(2)

Real property referred to in subsection (1) is exempt from taxation
for the first 5 years after incorporation or inclusion, to the
indicated percentage of the exemption that would have applied had the
incorporation or inclusion not taken place, as follows:





year after incorporation


% of exemption that would have applied



1st
100%


2nd
80%


3rd
60%


4th
40%


5th
20%








Exemptions under regulations




223

(1)


In addition to the provisions of any other Act, the Lieutenant
Governor in Council may make regulations prescribing exemptions from
property taxes under any Act in respect of one or more of the
following:




(a)

prescribed industrial land or industrial improvements, or both;




(a.1)

prescribed business land or business improvements, or both;




(b)

prescribed improvements at prescribed community airports;




(c)

prescribed land or improvements at prescribed community ports.




(2)

Without limiting section 283
[variation authority]
, regulations under subsection (1) may be different for different
community airports and different community ports.




(3)

An exemption under subsection (1) (b) or (c) applies to an airport or
port only for a taxation year in which it is operated as a community
airport or community port, as applicable.




Division 7 — Permissive Exemptions





General authority for permissive exemptions




224

(1)


A council may, by bylaw in accordance with this section, exempt land
or improvements, or both, referred to in subsection (2) from taxation
under section 197 (1) (a)
[municipal property taxes]
, to the extent, for the period and subject to the conditions provided
in the bylaw.




(2)

Tax exemptions may be provided under this section for the following:




(a)

land or improvements that




(i)

are owned or held by a charitable, philanthropic or other not for
profit corporation, and




(ii)

the council considers are used for a purpose that is directly related
to the purposes of the corporation;




(b)

land or improvements that




(i)

are owned or held by a municipality, regional district or other local
authority, and




(ii)

the council considers are used for a purpose of the local authority;




(c)

land or improvements that the council considers would otherwise
qualify for exemption under section 220
[general statutory exemptions]
were it not for a secondary use;




(d)

the interest of a public authority, local authority or any other
corporation or organization in land or improvements that are used or
occupied by the corporation or organization if




(i)

the land or improvements are owned by a public authority or local
authority, and




(ii)

the land or improvements are used by the corporation or organization
for a purpose in relation to which an exemption under this Division or
Division 6 of this Part would apply or could be provided if the land
or improvements were owned by that corporation or organization;




(e)

the interest of a public authority, local authority or any other
corporation or organization in land or improvements that are used or
occupied by the corporation or organization if




(i)

the land or improvements are owned by a person who is providing a
municipal service under a partnering agreement,




(ii)

an exemption under section 225
[partnering and other special tax exemption authority]
would be available for the land or improvements in relation to the
partnering agreement if they were used in relation to the service,




(iii)

the partnering agreement expressly contemplates that the council may
provide an exemption under this provision, and




(iv)

the land or improvements are used by the corporation or organization
for a purpose in relation to which an exemption under this Division or
Division 6 of this Part would apply or could be provided if the land
or improvements were owned by that corporation or organization;




(f)

in relation to property that is exempt under section 220 (1) (h)
[buildings for public worship]
,




(i)

an area of land surrounding the exempt building,




(ii)

a hall that the council considers is necessary to the exempt building
and the land on which the hall stands, and




(iii)

an area of land surrounding a hall that is exempt under subparagraph
(ii);




(g)

land or improvements used or occupied by a religious organization, as
tenant or licensee, for the purpose of public worship or for the
purposes of a hall that the council considers is necessary to land or
improvements so used or occupied;




(h)

in relation to property that is exempt under section 220 (1) (i)
[seniors' homes]
or (j)
[hospitals]
, any area of land surrounding the exempt building;




(h.1)

in relation to land or improvements, or both, exempt under
section 220 (1) (l)
[independent schools]
, any area of land surrounding the exempt land or improvements;




(i)

land or improvements owned or held by an athletic or service club or
association and used as a public park or recreation ground or for
public athletic or recreational purposes;




(j)

land or improvements owned or held by a person or organization and
operated as a private hospital licensed under the

Hospital Act

or as a licensed community care facility, or registered assisted
living residence, under the

Community Care and Assisted Living Act

;




(k)

land or improvements for which a grant has been made, after March 31,
1974, under the

Housing Construction (Elderly Citizens) Act

before its repeal.




(3)

The authority under subsection (2) (e) and (g) to (j) is not subject
to section 25 (1)
[prohibition against assistance to business]
.




(4)

Subject to subsection (5), a bylaw under this section




(a)

must establish the term of the exemption, which may not be longer than
10 years,




(b)

may only be adopted after notice of the proposed bylaw has been given
in accordance with section 227
[notice of permissive tax exemptions]
, and




(c)

does not apply to taxation in a calendar year unless it comes into
force on or before October 31 in the preceding year.




(5)

Subsection (4) (a) and (b) does not apply in relation to exemptions
under subsection (2) (f), (h) and (h.1).




(6)

If only a portion of a parcel of land is exempt under this section,
the bylaw under this section must include a description of the land
that is satisfactory to the British Columbia Assessment Authority.




(7)

A bylaw under this section ceases to apply to property, the use or
ownership of which no longer conforms to the conditions necessary to
qualify for exemption and, after this, the property is liable to
taxation.






Partnering, heritage, riparian and other special exemption authority




225

(1)


In this section:



"eligible property"

means property that is eligible under subsection (2);



"exemption agreement"

means an agreement under subsection (5).




(2)

The following property is eligible for a tax exemption under this
section:




(a)

eligible partnering property, being property that




(i)

is owned by a person or public authority providing a municipal service
under a partnering agreement, and




(ii)

the council considers will be used in relation to the service being
provided under the partnering agreement;




(b)

eligible heritage property, being property that is




(i)

protected heritage property,




(ii)

subject to a heritage revitalization agreement under section 610 of
the

Local Government Act

,




(iii)

subject to a covenant under section 219 of the

Land Title Act

that relates to the conservation of heritage property, or




(iv)

if property referred to in subparagraphs (i) to (iii) is a building or
other improvement so affixed to the land as to constitute real
property, an area of land surrounding that improvement;




(c)

eligible riparian property, being property that




(i)

is riparian land,




(ii)

is subject to a covenant under section 219 of the

Land Title Act

that




(A)

relates to the protection of the property as riparian property, and




(B)

has the municipality granting the exemption under this section as a
covenantee in whose favour the covenant is made, and




(iii)

meets any other requirements prescribed by regulation;




(d)

eligible cemetery property, being land held for cemetery, mausoleum or
columbarium purposes;




(e)

eligible golf course property, being land maintained as a golf course.




(3)

A council may, by bylaw, exempt eligible property from taxation under
section 197 (1) (a)
[municipal property taxes]
to the extent provided in the bylaw and subject to the conditions
established by exemption agreement.




(4)

The authority under subsection (3) is not subject to section 25 (1)
[prohibition against assistance to business]
.




(5)

For the purposes of this section, the council may enter into an
agreement with the owner of property that is exempt or is to be exempt
under this section, respecting the extent of the exemption and the
conditions on which it is made.




(6)

Without limiting subsection (5), an exemption agreement may do one or
more of the following:




(a)

require the eligible property to be subject to a covenant under
section 219 of the

Land Title Act

in favour of the municipality;




(b)

provide that the exemption is subject to specified conditions;




(c)

provide that, if




(i)

a condition is not met,




(ii)

a required covenant under section 219 of the

Land Title Act

is discharged, or




(iii)

any other circumstances specified in the agreement occur,


the property owner must pay to the municipality an amount determined
in accordance with the agreement.




(7)

A bylaw under this section




(a)

must establish the term of the exemption,




(b)

may only be adopted after notice of the proposed bylaw has been given
in accordance with section 227
[notice of permissive tax exemptions]
,




(c)

may only be adopted by an affirmative vote of at least 2/3 of all
council members, and




(d)

does not apply to taxation in a calendar year unless it comes into
force on or before October 31 in the preceding year.




(8)

An exemption under this section ceases to apply to property, the use
or ownership of which no longer conforms to the conditions necessary
to qualify for exemption and, after this, the property is liable to
taxation.






Revitalization tax exemptions




226

(1)


In this section:



"exemption agreement"

means an agreement under subsection (7);



"exemption certificate"

means a revitalization tax exemption certificate issued under
subsection (8);



"revitalization program bylaw"

means a bylaw under subsection (4).




(2)

A council may, for the purpose of encouraging revitalization in the
municipality, provide tax exemptions for land or improvements, or
both, in accordance with this section.




(3)

For a revitalization tax exemption under this section to apply to a
particular property,




(a)

the exemption must be in accordance with a revitalization program
bylaw under subsection (4),




(b)

an exemption agreement under subsection (7) must apply to the
property, and




(c)

an exemption certificate for the property must have been issued under
subsection (8).




(4)

A revitalization tax exemption program must be established by a bylaw
that includes the following:




(a)

a description of the reasons for and the objectives of the program;




(b)

a description of how the program is intended to accomplish the
objectives;




(c)

a description of the kinds of property, or related activities or
circumstances, that will be eligible for tax exemptions under the
program;




(d)

the extent of the tax exemptions available;




(e)

the amounts of tax exemptions that may be provided under the bylaw, by
specifying amounts or by establishing formulas by which the amounts
are to be determined, or both;




(f)

the maximum term of a tax exemption that may be provided under the
bylaw, which may not be longer than 10 years.




(5)

A revitalization program bylaw




(a)

may include other provisions the council considers advisable
respecting the program including, without limiting this,




(i)

the requirements that must be met before an exemption certificate may
be issued,




(ii)

conditions that must be included in an exemption certificate, and




(iii)

provision for a recapture amount that must be paid by the owner of the
property to the municipality if the conditions specified in the
exemption certificate are not met, and




(b)

may be different for




(i)

different areas of the municipality,




(ii)

different property classes under the

Assessment Act

,




(iii)

different classes of land or improvements, or both, as established by
the bylaw,




(iv)

different activities and circumstances related to a property or its
uses, as established by the bylaw, and




(v)

different uses as established by zoning bylaw.




(6)

A revitalization program bylaw may be adopted only after




(a)

notice of the proposed bylaw has been given in accordance with section
227
[notice of permissive tax exemptions]
, and




(b)

the council has considered the bylaw in conjunction with the
objectives and policies set out under section 165 (3.1) (c)
[use of permissive tax exemptions]
in its financial plan.




(7)

The council may enter into an agreement with the owner of a property
respecting




(a)

the provision of a revitalization tax exemption under this section,




(b)

any requirements that must be met before an exemption certificate is
issued, and




(c)

any conditions on which the tax exemption is to be provided.




(8)

Once




(a)

all requirements established in the revitalization program bylaw, and




(b)

any additional requirements established in the exemption agreement


have been met, a revitalization tax exemption certificate must be
issued for the property in accordance with the exemption agreement.




(9)

An exemption certificate must specify the following in accordance with
the revitalization program bylaw and the exemption agreement:




(a)

the extent of the tax exemption;




(b)

the amount of the tax exemption or the formula for determining the
exemption;




(c)

the term of the tax exemption;




(d)

if applicable, the conditions on which the tax exemption is provided;




(e)

if applicable, that a recapture amount is payable if the exemption
certificate is cancelled, and how that amount is to be determined.




(10)

So long as an exemption certificate has not been cancelled, the land
or improvements, or both, subject to the exemption certificate are
exempt from taxation under section 197 (1) (a)
[municipal property taxes]
as provided in the exemption certificate.




(11)

An exemption certificate may be cancelled by the council




(a)

on the request of the property owner, or




(b)

if any of the conditions specified in the exemption certificate are
not met.




(12)

An exemption certificate or cancellation does not apply to taxation in
a calendar year unless the exemption certificate is issued or
cancelled, as applicable, on or before October 31 in the preceding
year.




(13)

The designated municipal officer must




(a)

provide a copy of an exemption certificate to the relevant assessor as
soon as practicable after it is issued, and




(b)

if applicable, notify that assessor as soon as practicable after an
exemption certificate is cancelled.




(14)

The authority to provide a tax exemption under this section is not
subject to section 25 (1)
[prohibition against assistance to business]
.






Notice of permissive tax exemptions




227

(1)


A council must give notice of a proposed bylaw under this Division in
accordance with section 94
[public notice]
.




(2)

Subject to subsection (3), the notice under subsection (1) must




(a)

identify the property that would be subject to the bylaw,




(b)

describe the proposed exemption,




(c)

state the number of years that the exemption may be provided, and




(d)

provide an estimate of the amount of taxes that would be imposed on
the property if it were not exempt, for the year in which the proposed
bylaw is to take effect and the following 2 years.




(3)

In the case of a bylaw under section 226 (4)
[revitalization program bylaw]
, the notice under subsection (1) of this section must include a
general description of each of the following:




(a)

the reasons for and the objectives of the program;




(b)

how the proposed program is intended to accomplish the objectives;




(c)

the kinds of property, or related activities or circumstances, that
will be eligible for a tax exemption under the program;




(d)

the extent, amounts and maximum terms of the tax exemptions that may
be provided under the program.




Division 8 — Tax Liability of Occupiers





Taxation of Crown land used by others




228

(1)


Subject to this section, land and its improvements are liable to
taxation if the land is




(a)

owned in fee simple by the Crown or some person or organization on
behalf of the Crown, and




(b)

held or occupied other than by or on behalf of the Crown.




(2)

This section does not make the following liable to taxation:




(a)

land or improvements otherwise exempt under section 220 (1) (b) to (m)
[general statutory exemptions]
;




(b)

land and improvements that are exempt under Division 7
[Permissive Exemptions]
of this Part;




(c)

a highway occupied by




(i)

a gas, electric light, telephone, telegraph, power, pipeline, water,
motor bus, electric trolley bus, radio or television broadcasting or
closed circuit television company, or




(ii)

a company that, in addition to any other function, provides a service
similar in nature to a service referred to in subparagraph (i).




(3)

Except as provided under the

Veterans' Land Act

(Canada) and subsection (4), the taxes imposed on land and
improvements referred to in subsection (1)




(a)

are a liability only of the holder or occupier, recoverable in the
manner set out in this Act, and




(b)

are not a lien or charge on the land and improvements that are not
liable to tax sale.




(4)

In the case of land disposed of by the Provincial government for which
the Crown grant has not been registered,




(a)

the land, together with its improvements, is liable to tax sale,




(b)

the taxes imposed are a lien and charge on the land and its
improvements, and




(c)

the provisions of this Act and the

Local Government Act

for assessment, taxation, recovery of taxes and tax sales apply for
the purposes of this subsection.




(5)

If a supplementary assessment roll has been prepared under the

Assessment Act

for land held or occupied in the manner referred to in subsection (1),




(a)

the holder or occupier is liable to real property tax in the calendar
year in which the holding or occupancy began for the portion of the
calendar year the land was held or occupied, and




(b)

section 241
[taxation based on supplementary roll]
applies for the purposes of this subsection.




(6)

This section also applies to




(a)

improvements owned, held or occupied by or leased to, a person other
than the Crown, located on land the fee of which is vested in the
Crown or in some other person or organization on behalf of the Crown,
and




(b)

land held in trust for a band of Indians and occupied, other than in
an official capacity, by a person who is not an Indian.






Taxation of municipal land used by others




229


If the fee simple of land is vested in a municipality, but the land is
held or occupied other than by or on behalf of the municipality, the
rules for taxation of Crown land used by others, as set out in section
228 (1), (2), (3) and (6) (a), apply to the land and its improvements
and make them liable for taxation.






Taxation of occupier of exempt land




230


An occupier of land in the municipality assessed under section 27 of
the

Assessment Act

is subject to taxation in the same manner as an occupier of land taxed
under section 229.




Division 9 — General Revenue Collection Authority





Recovery of taxes and fees




231

(1)


Taxes and fees owed to a municipality, together with any applicable
interest or penalties, are a debt due to the municipality recoverable
in any court of competent jurisdiction.




(2)

In addition to recovery under subsection (1), amounts referred to in
that subsection may be recovered by any other method authorized under
this or another Act and, unless otherwise provided, the use of one
method does not prevent seeking recovery by one or more other methods.






Collection agreements with other taxing authorities




232

(1)


A council may, by bylaw, enter into an agreement with any other
authority having taxing powers in respect of land, or land and
improvements, located in the municipality respecting the exercise of
the powers of the municipality and of the other authority in relation
to the collection of taxes, recovery of unpaid taxes and related
matters.




(2)

An agreement under subsection (1) may provide that a party to the
agreement may exercise a power of another party to the agreement in
relation to matters referred to in that subsection.




Division 10 — Property Tax Due Dates and Tax Notices





Definition and application of section 160




232.1

(1)


In this Division and Division 12
[Payment of Taxes]
of this Part,
"electronic transmission"
means




(a)

the transmission of a record by electronic means, or




(b)

the provision of access to a record by electronic means.




(2)

Section 160

[notice by municipality: obligation satisfied if reasonable effort
made]

applies, in respect of electronic transmission, to this Division and
Division 12 of this Part.






Options for tax due dates




233


Property taxes are due as follows:




(a)

if the municipality has not established an alternative scheme, in
accordance with the general tax collection scheme under section 234;




(b)

if the municipality has established an alternative scheme under
section 235, in accordance with the election of the owner under
section 236.






General tax collection scheme




234

(1)


If this section applies, property taxes for a year are due on July 2
of the year.




(2)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations establishing
penalties and interest that must be applied by municipalities in
relation to payments made after the tax due date under subsection (1).






Alternative municipal tax collection scheme




235

(1)


A council may, by bylaw, establish one or more dates on which all or
part of the property taxes under this Part are due.




(2)

A bylaw under subsection (1) must establish an annual period during
which owners may make elections under section 236
[owner may elect which scheme to use]
.




(3)

A bylaw under subsection (1) may do one or more of the following:




(a)

establish procedures for determining the amount of taxes due on each
of the due dates;




(b)

provide for




(i)

estimating, before the adoption of the annual property tax bylaw, the
amount of taxes payable in the year, and




(ii)

making adjustments to payments due after the adoption of that bylaw in
order to take into account variations between the estimated and actual
taxes payable;




(c)

establish discounts to be applied in relation to payments made before
a tax due date established by the bylaw;




(d)

establish penalties and interest to be applied in relation to payments
made after a tax due date established by the bylaw;




(e)

set terms, conditions and procedures in relation to payments, which
may be different for different classes of owners as established by the
bylaw.




(4)

As a limitation on subsection (3) (a), there must not be more than 12
months between the first and last due dates for annual taxes for any
year.






Owner may elect which scheme to use




236

(1)


If an alternative municipal tax collection scheme is established under
section 235, the applicable scheme is determined in accordance with
the following:




(a)

if an owner has elected in accordance with subsection (2) to pay under
the municipal scheme, that scheme applies;




(b)

if an owner has elected in accordance with subsection (2) to pay under
the general tax collection scheme, that scheme applies;




(c)

if paragraph (a) or (b) does not apply and the municipal tax
collection scheme




(i)

has not established due dates that are before July 2,




(ii)

has not established any interest, or has established interest that
does not exceed the interest for the general tax collection scheme
prescribed under section 234 (2), and




(iii)

has not established any penalty, or has established penalties that do
not exceed the penalties for the general tax collection scheme
prescribed under section 234 (2),


the municipal tax collection scheme applies;




(d)

if no other paragraph applies, the general tax collection scheme
applies.




(2)

An owner may make an election, or change an election, referred to in
subsection (1) (a) or (b) by giving written notice of the election to
the municipality within the period established under section 235 (2)
[alternative municipal tax collection scheme]
.




(3)

If the land title registration of a property indicates that there is
more than one registered owner of the property, a person giving notice
under subsection (2) may only do so with the written consent of the
number of those persons who, together with the person giving notice,
are a majority of the registered owners.




(4)

As a limit on subsection (2), after an election or change has been
made under this section, no further change in election may be made for
the same year.




(5)

Once an election or change has been made under this section, the owner
is liable to make payments in accordance with the applicable scheme
until the owner has made a subsequent change in election under this
section.






General tax notices




237

(1)


Each year a municipality must deliver a tax notice in accordance with
this section to each owner of property subject to tax under this Act.




(2)

A tax notice must include the following:




(a)

a short description of the property;




(b)

the taxes imposed under this Act for the current year, separately
stated for




(i)

property value taxes imposed under section 197 (1) (a)
[municipal property taxes]
,




(ii)

each property value tax imposed under section 197 (1) (b)
[property taxes for other bodies]
,




(iii)

each property value tax collected by the municipality on behalf of
another local government or other public body on the basis of tax
rates imposed by the other body, and




(iv)

each parcel tax imposed under Division 4
[Parcel Taxes]
of this Part;




(c)

other taxes or fees that are payable in relation to the property;




(d)

any credit or abatement authorized by this or another Act;




(e)

when the penalties under this Division will be added if taxes are not
paid;




(f)

other information that may be prescribed by regulation.




(3)

Subject to the regulations, a municipality must include with the tax
notice an application for a grant under the

Home Owner Grant Act

.




(4)

A tax notice under this section must also be delivered to each holder
of a registered charge in relation to the property whose name is
included on the assessment roll.




(5)

For the purposes of this section, the tax notice must be delivered to
an owner or a holder of a registered charge




(a)

by mail at the address on the assessment roll, or




(b)

by electronic transmission, if the owner or the holder of a registered
charge provides authorization under subsection (5.1), using the email
address provided under subsection (5.2).




(5.1)

An owner or a holder of a registered charge who is entitled to a tax
notice under this section may,




(a)

if the municipality provides for electronic transmission, authorize,
in writing, a municipality to electronically transmit a tax notice
under this section and any statement under section 248
[statement of outstanding taxes]
to the owner or the holder of a registered charge, as applicable, and




(b)

at any time, withdraw, in writing, the authorization made under
paragraph (a).




(5.2)

If a person provides an authorization under subsection (5.1), the
person must provide to the municipality an email address for the
purposes of electronic transmission.




(6)

If a number of parcels are assessed in the name of the same owner,




(a)

any number of those parcels may be included in one tax notice, and




(b)

if several of the parcels are assessed at the same value, the tax
notice is sufficient if it clearly identifies the property assessed
and taxed as a block, parts of a block or a series of lots, without
the full description for each parcel.






Persons may request copies of tax notices




238

(1)


The collector must deliver




(a)

by mail, or




(b)

by electronic transmission, if authorized under subsection (2) (c),


a copy of a tax notice under section 237
[general tax notices]
and a copy of any statement under section 248
[statement of outstanding taxes]
to all persons who have requested a copy in accordance with subsection
(2) during the current year.




(2)

For the purposes of this section, a person




(a)

must make a written request to the municipality,




(b)

must include in the request a description, sufficient to allow the
property to be identified, of the property for which the tax notice or
statement is requested, and




(c)

may, if the municipality provides for electronic transmission, include
in the request an authorization for the municipality to electronically
transmit the tax notice or statement.




(3)

If a person includes an authorization under subsection (2) (c), the
person must provide to the municipality an email address for the
purposes of electronic transmission.




Division 11 — Adjustments to Taxes





Interest on overpayment of taxes




239

(1)


If a person is refunded an amount of taxes paid under this Act, the
municipality must pay the person interest at the rate prescribed under
subsection (2).




(2)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may prescribe a rate of interest
for the purposes of this section.






Adjustments for assessment changes




240

(1)


If an assessment is set aside or varied after the annual property tax
bylaw is adopted, the collector must make the necessary adjustments to
the taxes imposed on the affected property.




(2)

The amount of any tax as amended under this section is the amount of
taxes imposed for the current year on the property affected and,
despite the terms of a receipt given by the collector, any excess paid
must be refunded and any balance unpaid is tax due and payable.






Taxation based on supplementary roll




241

(1)


If taxes are to be imposed on the basis of a supplementary roll under
the

Assessment Act

, 30 days' notice must be given for payment of those taxes and a
penalty must not be added in that period.




(2)

If an assessment on a supplementary roll is set aside or the assessed
value reduced under the

Assessment Act

, the collector must refund to an owner the excess amount of taxes,
and any penalty and interest on that excess, paid by the owner, less
any taxes in arrear or delinquent taxes the person owes to the
municipality.






Apportionment of property value taxes if land subdivided




242

(1)


If a plan of subdivision is deposited in the land title office after
November 30 in any year and before June 1 in the next year, the
collector may




(a)

apportion the property value taxes payable in that next year between
the parcels created by the subdivision in the same proportions as
taxes would have been payable in respect of the parcels had the
subdivision occurred on or before November 30 in the first year, and




(b)

on making an apportionment under paragraph (a), record the
apportionment in the manner that the collector considers necessary.




(2)

Taxes apportioned to a parcel under subsection (1) are the taxes
payable in respect of the parcel in the year for which they are
apportioned.




(3)

The assessor for the area in which the land is located must provide
the collector with the assessed values necessary to calculate the
proportions of taxes referred to in subsection (1).






Apportionment of parcel taxes if land subdivided




243

(1)


If a parcel of land subject to tax under Division 4
[Parcel Taxes]
of this Part is subdivided, the collector must apportion the parcel
taxes payable between the parcels created by the subdivision in the
same proportions as taxes would have been payable in respect of the
parcels had the subdivision occurred before the parcel tax roll was
authenticated.




(2)

Taxes apportioned to a parcel under subsection (1) are the taxes
payable in respect of the parcel.




(3)

An apportionment or reapportionment of a parcel tax under this section
does not




(a)

require authorization or confirmation by bylaw or by a parcel tax roll
review panel,




(b)

operate as a new parcel tax assessment, or




(c)

in any way invalidate, reopen or affect the parcel tax roll other than
for the land in respect of which the apportionment or reapportionment
has been made.




Division 12 — Payment of Taxes





Application of tax payments




244

(1)


Payments for taxes must be credited by the collector against the
following in the indicated order:




(a)

delinquent taxes, including interest, from past years;




(b)

taxes in arrear, including interest, from the preceding year;




(c)

a penalty added in the current year;




(d)

taxes imposed under the

School Act

for the current year;




(d.1)

taxes imposed under the

Police Act

for the current year;




(e)

taxes under Division 5
[Local Service Taxes]
of this Part in the current year;




(f)

any unpaid municipal taxes for the current year.




(2)

Acceptance of a payment on account of taxes does not affect the
liability of a person for full payment or of the land or improvements
to be sold for the amount of taxes unpaid.






Taxes in arrear




245

(1)


The taxes for the current year on land or improvements, or both,
together with any applicable penalties, that are unpaid on December 31
in the year imposed




(a)

are taxes in arrear on that date, and




(b)

bear interest from that date at a rate prescribed by the Lieutenant
Governor in Council under section 11 (3) of the

Taxation (Rural Area) Act

.




(2)

Taxes




(a)

imposed by a municipality under section 197 (1) (b)
[property taxes for other bodies]
, or




(b)

collected by the municipality on behalf of another local government or
other public body on the basis of tax rates imposed by the other body


that are unpaid on December 31 in the year imposed, together with any
applicable penalties, become municipal taxes in arrear under
subsection (1) on that date.




(3)

The interest under subsection (1) (b) is part of the taxes in arrear,
and the total amount of the taxes in arrear is a charge on the land or
improvements, or both, as if the penalties and interest had originally
formed part of the taxes imposed.






Delinquent taxes




246

(1)


Any taxes in arrear remaining unpaid on December 31 in the year
following the year in which they became taxes in arrear




(a)

are delinquent on that date, and




(b)

bear interest from that date at a rate prescribed by the Lieutenant
Governor in Council under section 11 (3) of the

Taxation (Rural Area) Act

until paid or recovered.




(2)

The added interest under subsection (1) (b) is part of the delinquent
taxes and is a charge as in section 245 (3)
[taxes in arrear]
.






Treatment of outstanding taxes on subdivision or cancellation of
subdivision




247

(1)


If a parcel of land appears on the assessment roll to have been
subdivided, the collector must apportion taxes in arrear and
delinquent taxes in the same proportion as the assessment for each new
parcel bears to the total assessment.




(2)

The assessor for the area in which the land is located must provide
the collector with the assessment apportionment required for the
purpose of subsection (1).




(3)

Subsections (1) and (2) also apply if part of a parcel on which taxes
are due has been sold and the transfer has been delivered to the
purchaser.




(4)

If a plan of subdivision has been cancelled, the amount of any taxes
in arrear or delinquent taxes against a parcel in the plan or
subdivision cancelled are taxes in arrear or delinquent taxes against
the parcel of land as it appears after cancellation.






Statement of outstanding taxes




248

(1)


No later than the date on which the tax notice under section 237
[general tax notices]
is delivered, the collector must, in accordance with this section,
deliver a statement of the amount of the taxes in arrear and of
delinquent taxes to each assessed owner of




(a)

property for which there are taxes in arrear or delinquent taxes, or




(b)

property sold by tax sale under the

Local Government Act

, but remaining subject to redemption under section 660
[redemption by owner]
of that Act.




(2)

A statement under subsection (1) must also be delivered to each holder
of a registered charge in relation to the property whose name is
included on the assessment roll.




(3)

If applicable, the statement under subsection (1) must be in the form
prescribed by regulation.




(4)

For the purposes of this section, a statement under this section must
be delivered to an owner or a holder of a registered charge




(a)

by mail at the address on the assessment roll, or




(b)

by electronic transmission, if the owner or the holder of a registered
charge provides authorization under section 237 (5.1), using the email
address provided under section 237 (5.2).






Certificate of outstanding taxes




249

(1)


On demand and without charge, the collector must give the owner of
real property whichever of the following is applicable to the
property:




(a)

a written statement showing the amount of all unpaid taxes;




(b)

a certificate that all taxes and fees imposed against the real
property identified in the certificate have been fully paid.




(2)

The collector must provide, to any person who requests this, a
certificate showing




(a)

the amount of unpaid taxes charged against specified real property,




(b)

whether the real property has been sold for taxes, and




(c)

if the property has been sold for taxes, the time if any remaining for
redemption and the amount required to redeem it.




(3)

An error in a statement or certificate given under this section does
not subject the municipality to damages.




Division 13 — Recovery of Taxes





Taxes are a special charge on the land




250

(1)


Taxes accrued and to accrue on land and its improvements, and a
judgment under section 231
[recovery of taxes and fees]
for the taxes, are a charge that




(a)

is a special charge on the land and improvements,




(b)

has priority over any claim, lien, privilege or encumbrance of any
person except the Crown, and




(c)

does not require registration to preserve it.




(2)

If it is necessary or advisable to protect or enforce a charge under
subsection (1) by a proceeding, this may be done by order of the
court, on application and on notice the court considers appropriate.






Liability of assessed owner




251

(1)


A person who, in any year, is an assessed owner of land, improvements
or both in a municipality, or of a taxable interest in them, is liable
to the municipality for




(a)

all taxes imposed by the municipality under any Act or former Act on
the land, improvements or both during the year, and




(b)

all unpaid taxes imposed in a previous year.




(2)

The liability referred to in subsection (1) is a debt owed to the
municipality, and a copy of the tax notice under section 237
[general tax notices]
that refers to the taxes payable by the person, certified as a true
copy by the corporate officer, is evidence of that debt.




(3)

The liability referred to in subsection (1) must not be enforced by
action against a person whose name appears on an assessment roll only
as a personal representative or trustee of an estate, except to the
extent and value of the assets of the estate that have come into that
person's hands.






Recovery of taxes by the legal remedy of distress




252

(1)


Despite any Act, with the approval of the council, a collector may,
directly or by agent, levy the amount of taxes due, with costs, by
distress of one or more of the following:




(a)

the output of the taxed property;




(b)

goods and chattels of the person liable to pay the taxes;




(c)

any goods and chattels in British Columbia in the possession of the
person liable to pay the taxes;




(d)

any goods and chattels found on the premises of the person liable to
pay the taxes;




(e)

any goods and chattels found on the property of or in the possession
of another occupant of the premises of the person liable to pay the
taxes that would be subject to distress for arrears of rent due to a
landlord.




(2)

Subject to subsection (3), the costs chargeable on distress under this
section are those payable as between landlord and tenant.




(3)

A council may, by bylaw, regulate and alter the scale of costs payable
in cases of distress under this section.




(4)

A collector who makes distress must give notice in accordance with
section 94
[public notice]
of




(a)

the time and place of the sale, and




(b)

the name of the taxpayer whose property is to be sold.




(5)

At the time given in the notice under subsection (4), the collector or
agent must sell at public auction the seized property or as much as
may be necessary.




(6)

If there is a surplus from the sale over the amount of the taxes and
costs, the surplus must be paid to the person in possession of the
property when it was seized, unless claim to it is made by another
person on the ground that the property sold belonged to the other
person, or that the other person was entitled by lien or other right
to the surplus.




(7)

If a claim is made by the person for whose taxes the property was
distrained and the claim is admitted, the surplus must be paid to the
claimant.




(8)

If the claim referred to in subsection (7) is contested, the surplus
must be retained by the collector until the rights of the parties have
been determined.




(9)

A person receiving a surplus under this section must give a receipt
for it.






Power to accept real property in place of taxes




253

(1)


A council may, by bylaw, accept, in place of all unpaid taxes, rates,
interest and costs against otherwise unencumbered real property in the
municipality, an absolute conveyance to the municipality of the whole
of the real property from its registered owner.




(2)

Delivery of the conveyance must be made to the municipality and, after
receipt, the designated municipal officer must promptly apply to the
proper land title office for registration of the municipality as
owner.




(3)

Registration of the municipality as owner of the land or real property
is deemed to be in payment of and discharges all taxes, rates,
interest and costs assessed and chargeable against the land or real
property at the date of the conveyance.






Tax sales




254


If applicable, a municipality must recover unpaid property taxes,
including any interest and penalties owing on those taxes, by tax sale
in accordance with Division 7
[Annual Municipal Tax Sale]
of Part 16
[Municipal Provisions]
of the

Local Government Act

.






Notice of delinquent taxes on Crown land




255


If taxes become delinquent on land that the Provincial government has
agreed to sell under an agreement to purchase,




(a)

the collector must notify the minister responsible for the
administration of the

Land Act

within 3 months after taxes with respect to the person holding the
land became delinquent, and




(b)

that minister must cause a suitable notation to be made on the record
of purchase and may take any other steps considered advisable.






Recovery of taxes on Crown land subject to an agreement for sale




256

(1)


This section applies if the Provincial government has agreed to sell
land in a municipality on terms of deferred payment and the holder of
the agreement for sale




(a)

has defaulted in payment for the land, or has abandoned the land with
the title remaining in the Provincial government, and




(b)

has defaulted in payment of municipal taxes against the land.




(2)

The municipal taxes referred to in subsection (1) (b) are a first
charge against the land and, following the sale of the land, the
Provincial government must pay the municipal taxes out of the proceeds
of the sale, subject to the limit that the amount paid must not exceed
the amount received by the Provincial government for the sale.






Recovery of taxes on Crown land held under lease or licence




257

(1)


The collector must not sell land the fee simple of which is vested in
the Provincial government and which is held under lease, licence,
permit or location.




(2)

Within 5 months from the date when taxes on land referred to in
subsection (1) become delinquent, the collector must give written
notice to the person liable for them, either by serving the notice or
by sending it by registered mail, that the lease, licence, permit or
location will be cancelled if the person does not pay the delinquent
taxes, together with interest and all subsequent taxes, within 6
months from the date when the taxes became delinquent.




(3)

The collector must send a copy of the notice under subsection (2) to
the minister responsible for the administration of the

Land Act

.




(4)

If payment of the delinquent taxes, with interest, and all subsequent
taxes is not made within the 6 months,




(a)

the collector must forward to the minister referred to in subsection
(3) a list of defaulting lessees, licensees, permittees or locators,
and




(b)

that minister must at once cancel the leases, licences, permits or
locations.




(5)

Until the minister referred to in subsection (3) notifies the
collector of cancellation under subsection (4), the collector must not
cancel an amount due.




(6)

On cancellation of a lease, licence, permit or location, the minister
referred to in subsection (3) must notify the collector, who must then
cancel the amount due.




(7)

If good reasons are shown to the satisfaction of the minister referred
to in subsection (3) that the defaulting person, from poverty,
sickness or other cause, has been unable to pay the amount due within
the time limit, the minister may extend the time within which payment
must be made before cancellation takes effect.




Division 14 — Recovery of Special Fees





Special fees may be collected as property taxes




258

(1)


This section applies to the following:




(a)

fees imposed, under this Act or the

Local Government Act

, for work done or services provided to land or improvements;




(b)

fees imposed under section 196 (1) (a)
[fire and security alarms systems]
;




(c)

amounts that a municipality is entitled to recover for work done or
services provided to land or improvements under any other provision of
this Act or the

Local Government Act

that authorizes the municipality to recover amounts in the event of
default by a person.




(2)

An amount referred to in subsection (1)




(a)

may be collected in the same manner and with the same remedies as
property taxes, and




(b)

if it is due and payable by December 31 and unpaid on that date, is
deemed to be taxes in arrear.




(3)

If an amount referred to in subsection (2) (b) is a fee referred to in
section 194 (2) (a)
[municipal fees for services outside the municipality]
,




(a)

the collector must promptly, after December 31, forward a statement
showing the amount of the fee




(i)

to the Surveyor of Taxes in the case of real property that is not in a
municipality, or




(ii)

to the applicable municipal collector in other cases, and




(b)

the Surveyor of Taxes or collector must add the amount of the fee to
the taxes payable on the property.




(4)

If an amount is added under subsection (3) (b),




(a)

the amount is deemed to be a municipal tax or Provincial tax, as
applicable, and must be dealt with in the same manner as taxes against
the property would be under this Act, the

Local Government Act

or the

Taxation (Rural Area) Act

, and




(b)

when it is collected, the collecting municipality or Minister of
Finance must pay the amount to the municipality to which it is owed.




(5)

If an amount is added under subsection (3) (b) and is not paid at the
time the property is sold by tax sale,




(a)

if the upset price is obtained at the time of the tax sale, the
minister or municipality referred to in subsection (4) must pay out of
the proceeds of the sale the amount due under this section to the
municipality to which it is owed, or




(b)

if the upset price is not obtained and subsequently the property is
sold, the proceeds of sale must be applied according to the respective
interests in the upset price.






Special fees that are liens against property




259

(1)


This section applies to amounts that are referred to in section 258
(1)
[special fees that may be collected as property taxes]
.




(2)

An amount referred to in subsection (1)




(a)

is a charge or lien on the land and its improvements in respect of
which the charge is imposed, the work done or services provided,




(b)

has priority over any claim, lien, privilege or encumbrance of any
person except the Crown, and




(c)

does not require registration to preserve it.




(3)

An owner of land or real property aggrieved by the creation of a
charge or lien under this section may, on 10 days' written notice to
the municipality, apply to the Supreme Court for an order that the
charge be removed or that the amount for which it was imposed be
varied.




(4)

On an application under subsection (3), if the court is satisfied that
any of the amount for which the charge or lien was created was imposed
improperly, it may order that the charge or lien be removed or that
the amount be varied, or make another order it considers appropriate.




Part 8 — Bylaw Enforcement and Related Matters



Division 1 — Bylaw Enforcement





Enforcement powers




260

(1)


A council may make bylaws for the purposes of enforcing the bylaws of
the municipality.




(2)

Subject to subsection (5), without limiting the available remedies,
the authority of a municipality to deal with a contravention of a
bylaw includes the following:




(a)

prosecution of the offence in accordance with the

Offence Act

;




(b)

proceeding under Division 3
[Ticketing for Bylaw Offences]
of this Part;




(b.1)

subject to the regulations under the

Local Government Bylaw Notice Enforcement Act

, proceeding by bylaw notice under that Act;




(c)

court action under Division 4
[Enforcement by Civil Proceedings]
of this Part.




(3)

If a bylaw establishes a regulation or requirement to be observed in a
municipality, a person who contravenes the regulation or requirement
commits an offence that is punishable in the same manner as if the
bylaw had expressly forbidden persons from doing or refraining from
doing the act.




(4)

Section 12 (1)
[authority to establish variations]
does not apply in relation to bylaws imposing fines and other
penalties under this Part.




(5)

If a matter is prescribed for the purpose of section 4 (2) of the

Local Government Bylaw Notice Enforcement Act

, a council that adopts or has adopted a bylaw in relation to the
matter may only enforce the bylaw by bylaw notice under that Act.






Payment of fines and other penalties to municipality




261


Fines and other penalties imposed and collected under or because of a
municipal bylaw must be paid to the municipality.






Recovery of penalty and costs by legal remedy of distress




262

(1)


If a penalty, or part of a penalty, and all costs imposed are not paid
promptly, the justice or court may, by order, authorize all or part of
the penalty and costs to be levied by distress and sale of the
offender's goods and chattels.




(2)

If there is no distress out of which the penalty and costs or part of
the penalty and all of the costs can be levied, the justice or court
may commit the offender to imprisonment for the term, or part of the
term, specified in the bylaw.




Division 2 —
Offence Act
Prosecutions





Penalties in relation to
Offence Act
prosecutions




263

(1)


A bylaw under section 260 (1)
[enforcement powers]
may establish one or more of the following penalties to which a person
convicted of an offence in a prosecution under the

Offence Act

is liable:




(a)

a minimum fine;




(b)

a maximum fine of up to $50 000;




(c)

in the case of a continuing offence, for each day that the offence
continues either or both of




(i)

a minimum fine under paragraph (a), or




(ii)

a maximum fine under paragraph (b);




(d)

imprisonment for not more than 6 months.




(2)

If no other penalties are established in relation to an offence
referred to in subsection (1), the penalties established by
section 4
[general penalty]
of the

Offence Act

apply.




(3)

In a prosecution for an offence against a municipal bylaw, the justice
or court may impose all or part of the penalties applicable in
relation to the offence, together with the costs of prosecution.






Additional sentencing powers in relation to
Offence Act
prosecutions




263.1

(1)


If a person is convicted of an offence




(a)

under subsection (3), or




(b)

against a municipal bylaw in a prosecution commenced by an information
in Form 2 under the

Offence Act

,


in addition to the penalty under subsection (3) or established in
accordance with section 263, the court, having regard to the nature of
the offence and the circumstances surrounding its commission, may make
an order




(c)

prohibiting the person from doing any act or engaging in any activity
that may, in the court's opinion, result in the continuation or
repetition of the offence, and




(d)

directing the person to take any action the court considers
appropriate to remedy the harm that resulted from the commission of
the offence.




(2)

An order under subsection (1) must specify the duration of the order,
which may not exceed one year.




(3)

A person who fails to comply with an order under subsection (1)
commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of not more
than $10 000 or to imprisonment for not more than 6 months, or both.




(4)

For the purposes of section 43 (3) of the

Provincial Court Act

, a fine imposed in a prosecution for an offence under subsection (3)
is deemed to be a fine imposed for the contravention of a bylaw of the
municipality.




(5)

If a person is convicted of an offence referred to in subsection (1)
(a) or (b), on application by the municipality or another person for
compensation, the court must give consideration to the application
and, in addition to any penalty imposed, may order the convicted
person




(a)

to pay to the municipality or to the other person compensation, in an
amount that is not more than the monetary limit specified under the

Small Claims Act

, for any damage or loss sustained by the municipality or other person
because of the commission of the offence, and




(b)

in accordance with the schedule of costs prescribed under section 132
(2) (h) of the

Offence Act

, to pay to the municipality the costs incurred by the municipality in
investigating and prosecuting the person.




(6)

In the case of a dispute, the amount of compensation payable under
subsection (5) (a) must be proven on a balance of probabilities by the
municipality or the other person.




(7)

An order under subsection (5) may be enforced as a judgment of the
court for the recovery of a debt in the amount stated against the
person named.




Division 3 — Ticketing for Bylaw Offences





Ticket offences




264

(1)


A council may, by bylaw,




(a)

designate a bylaw for the purpose of this section, other than a bylaw
in relation to a matter prescribed by regulation,




(b)

designate as a bylaw enforcement officer a person who comes within a
class of persons prescribed by regulation, and




(c)

authorize the use of any word or expression on a ticket issued under
subsection (2) to designate an offence against a bylaw.




(2)

If a bylaw is designated under subsection (1), a bylaw enforcement
officer may lay an information by means of a ticket for contravention
of the bylaw.




(3)

Despite section 13 (1) of the

Offence Act

, an information laid by means of a ticket is valid whether or not it
is taken under oath.




(4)

The use on a ticket of




(a)

any word or expression authorized by bylaw under subsection (1) (c) to
designate an offence against a bylaw, or




(b)

a general description of an offence against a bylaw,


is deemed sufficient for all purposes to describe the offence
designated by that word, expression or general description.






Penalties in relation to ticket offences




265

(1)


A bylaw under section 260 (1)
[enforcement powers]
may establish one or more of the following penalties in relation to an
offence that is dealt with under this Division:




(a)

a fine not greater than the amount prescribed by regulation;




(b)

in the case of a continuing offence, for each day that the offence
continues, a fine not greater than the amount prescribed by
regulation.




(2)

In addition but subject to subsection (1), the bylaw may establish
different fine amounts that apply depending on whether the amount




(a)

is paid on or before the thirtieth day from the date on which the
ticket is served under section 266
[laying information and serving ticket]
, or




(b)

is paid after the day referred to in paragraph (a).






Laying information and serving ticket




266

(1)


When laying an information by means of a ticket, a bylaw enforcement
officer must indicate on the ticket the offence charged and must sign
the ticket.




(2)

The bylaw enforcement officer must serve the ticket on the person
alleged to have contravened the bylaw.




(3)

Service of a ticket under subsection (2) may be effected by




(a)

serving a copy of the ticket on the person alleged to have contravened
the bylaw immediately after the alleged contravention, or




(b)

causing a copy of the ticket to be served in the same manner as a
summons may be served under the

Offence Act

.




(4)

Service of a ticket under subsection (2) may be proved by




(a)

the oral evidence given under oath of the person who served it, or




(b)

the certificate of the person who served the ticket, if the
certificate is endorsed on the ticket or a copy of the ticket.




(5)

The certificate referred to in subsection (4) is proof of the facts
stated in the certificate and of the authority of the person who
signed it without further proof of the person's appointment or
signature.






Choice of paying fine or disputing ticket




267

(1)


If a fine established in accordance with section 265
[penalties in relation to ticket offences]
is indicated on a ticket for an offence charged, the person on whom
the ticket is served may, within 14 days after the date of service,




(a)

pay the fine indicated on the ticket to the municipality in accordance
with the prescribed instructions, or




(b)

dispute the allegation contained in the ticket by




(i)

delivering or having delivered to the address set out in the ticket a
written notice of dispute, or




(ii)

appearing in person at the location set out in the ticket to give
notice of dispute.




(2)

A notice of dispute under subsection (1) must contain an address for
the person disputing the allegation and sufficient information to
identify the ticket and the alleged contravention being disputed.




(3)

For the purpose of subsection (1), a notice of dispute that is
delivered by mail is deemed to have been delivered on the date it was
mailed.






Effect of paying fine




268

(1)


A person who pays a fine in accordance with section 267 (1) (a)
[choice of paying fine or disputing ticket]
is deemed to have pleaded guilty to the offence with which the person
was charged and to have paid the fine imposed.




(2)

If a person who is served with a ticket pays the fine as referred to
in subsection (1), no conviction need be drawn up or entered unless it
is required under the bylaw contravened or by the person convicted or
a prosecutor.






Hearing of dispute




269

(1)


If notice of dispute is given in accordance with section 267 (1) (b)
[choice of paying fine or disputing ticket]
, the council must refer the ticket to the Provincial Court for a
hearing.




(2)

If a ticket is referred to the Provincial Court under subsection (1),
the clerk of the court must send to the person who was served with the
ticket, by ordinary mail to the person's address set out in the notice
of dispute, a notice of the hearing specifying a time and place for
the appearance of the person before a justice.




(3)

If a person appears before a justice at the time and place specified
in the notice under subsection (2), section 58 of the

Offence Act

does not apply to the person and the justice has jurisdiction to hear
the dispute without examining the notice of dispute or the notice of
the hearing or inquiring into the service of the ticket on the person.




(4)

Despite section 60 of the

Offence Act

but subject to the Supreme Court Civil Rules, a justice hearing the
trial on a ticket may




(a)

admit as evidence, whether or not it would be admissible under the
laws of evidence, any oral or written testimony or any record or thing
that the justice considers is relevant to an issue in the trial and is
credible and trustworthy, and




(b)

adopt procedures that are conducive to justly and expeditiously
determining the matter.




(5)

As a restriction, a justice may not admit under subsection (4) (a)
anything that is privileged under the laws of evidence.




(6)

If a person who is served with a ticket




(a)

has




(i)

appeared before a justice at the time and place specified in the
notice under subsection (2), and




(ii)

pleaded guilty to or been found guilty of the offence with which the
person was charged, or




(b)

is deemed under section 270 or 271 to have pleaded guilty to the
offence with which the person was charged,


no conviction need be drawn up or entered unless it is required under
the bylaw contravened or by the person convicted or a prosecutor.






Failure to appear at hearing




270

(1)


A person is deemed to have not disputed a charge if the person fails
to appear before a justice to dispute the charge




(a)

at the time and place specified in the notice of the hearing referred
to in section 269 (2)
[hearing of dispute]
, or




(b)

at a new time and place set under section 272 (4)

[time extensions if person not at fault in failing to respond or
appear]

.




(2)

If a person is deemed under subsection (1) to have not disputed the
charge,




(a)

the person is deemed to have pleaded guilty to the offence with which
the person was charged, and




(b)

the fine amount indicated on the ticket is immediately payable to the
municipality.




(3)

Nothing in subsection (1) is to be construed as abrogating the right
of a person to appeal the conviction under section 102 of the

Offence Act

.






Failure to respond to ticket




271

(1)


A person served with a ticket under section 266
[laying information and serving ticket]
is deemed to have not disputed the charge if




(a)

the person does not pay the fine or dispute the charge, as provided in
section 267 (1)
[choice of paying fine or disputing ticket]
, and




(b)

at least 14 days have elapsed since the ticket was served on the
person.




(2)

If a person is deemed under subsection (1) to have not disputed the
charge, section 270 (2)
[failure to appear at hearing]
applies.




(3)

[Repealed 2007-6-4.]




(4)

Nothing in subsection (1) is to be construed as abrogating the right
of a person to appeal the conviction under section 102 of the

Offence Act

.






Time extensions if person not at fault in failing to respond or appear




272

(1)


A person who is served with a ticket but




(a)

does not dispute the charge, or




(b)

fails to appear before a justice at the time and place specified in
the notice under section 269 (2)
[notice of hearing]
,


may apply to a justice for a time extension in the circumstances
established by this section.




(2)

In the case of a person who did not dispute the charge, the person may
only apply if




(a)

the person has, through no fault of that person, not had an
opportunity to dispute the charge, and




(b)

not more than 30 days have passed since the end of the period referred
to in section 267 (1)
[choice of paying fine or disputing ticket]
.




(3)

In the case of a person who failed to appear before a justice to
dispute the charge, the person may only apply if




(a)

the failure was through no fault of the person, and




(b)

not more than 30 days have passed since the date specified in the
notice under section 269 (2)
[notice of hearing]
.




(4)

The justice to whom the application is made, on being satisfied by
affidavit in the prescribed form and with or without hearing from the
applicant, that the applicable conditions set out in subsection (2) or
(3) have been met may




(a)

strike out the conviction, if any,




(b)

in the case of a person who did not dispute the charge, allow the
person 14 days after the date the conviction is struck to dispute the
charge in accordance with section 267 (1)
[choice of paying fine or disputing ticket]
, and




(c)

in the case of a person who failed to appear to dispute the charge,
set a new time and place for the appearance of the person before a
justice.




(5)

If a conviction is struck out under subsection (4), the justice must
give the person a certificate of the fact in the prescribed form.






Regulations in relation to ticket offences




273


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations as follows:




(a)

prescribing the form and content of the tickets issued under this
Division;




(b)

prescribing matters for the purpose of section 264 (1) (a)
[matters not subject to ticket offences]
;




(c)

prescribing classes of persons for the purpose of section 264 (1) (b)
[ticket offences]
;




(d)

prescribing an amount for the purposes of section 265 (1)
[penalties in relation to ticket offences]
;




(e)

prescribing the form of a certificate of service for the purpose of
section 266 (4)
[laying information and serving ticket]
;




(f)

prescribing instructions for paying a fine for the purpose of section
267 (1) (a)
[choice of paying fine or disputing ticket]
;




(g)

prescribing the form of an affidavit for the purpose of section 272
(4)

[time extensions if person not at fault in failing to respond or
appear]

;




(h)

prescribing the form of a certificate under section 272 (5)

[time extensions if person not at fault in failing to respond to
ticket]

.




Division 4 — Enforcement by Civil Proceedings





Actions by municipality




274

(1)


A municipality may, by a proceeding brought in Supreme Court, enforce,
or prevent or restrain the contravention of,




(a)

a bylaw or resolution of the council under this Act or any other Act,
or




(b)

a provision of this Act or the

Local Government Act

or a regulation under those Acts.




(2)

For a civil proceeding referred to in subsection (1), or relating to
any damage to or interference with a highway in the municipality,




(a)

the proceeding may be brought by the municipality in its own name,




(b)

it is not necessary that the Provincial government, the Attorney
General or an officer of the Provincial government be a plaintiff in
the proceeding, and




(c)

the municipality must serve a copy of the originating documents on the
Attorney General




(i)

before the end of the period prescribed by the Supreme Court Civil
Rules for filing a response to civil claim by the defendant, or




(ii)

within a further time that may be allowed by the court.




(3)

The authority under subsection (1) is in addition to any other remedy
or penalty provided under this Act or the

Local Government Act

and may be exercised whether or not a penalty has been imposed for the
contravention.




Division 5 — Other Matters





Entry warrants




275


If satisfied by evidence on oath or affirmation that access to
property is necessary




(a)

for the purposes of this Act or the

Local Government Act

, or




(b)

for the purposes of a municipal power, duty or function under another
Act,


a justice may issue a warrant authorizing a person named in the
warrant to enter on or into property and conduct an inspection or take
other action as authorized by the warrant.




Part 9 — Governmental Relations



Division 1 — Provincial-Municipal Relations





Required consultations




276

(1)


The minister responsible must consult with representatives of the
Union of British Columbia Municipalities before the Provincial
government




(a)

reduces the amount of revenue transfers under the

Local Government Grants Act

,




(b)

proposes the amendment or repeal of this Act, the

Local Government Act

, the

Local Elections Campaign Financing Act

or the

Local Government Grants Act

, or




(c)

proposes the enactment, amendment or repeal of




(i)

a regulation under




(A)

section 199
[property tax rates]
, or




(B)

section 286 (1) (b)
[mandatory binding arbitration]
,




(ii)

a regulation under the

Local Government Grants Act

, or




(iii)

another enactment prescribed by regulation as being subject to the
requirements of this section.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1), the minister responsible must




(a)

provide the representatives with sufficient information respecting the
proposed change, and




(b)

allow the representatives sufficient time before the proposed
legislation is introduced in the Legislative Assembly, the regulation
is made or the estimates are tabled in the Legislative Assembly, as
applicable,


for the representatives to consider the proposed change and provide
their comments to that minister.




(3)

The minister responsible must consider any comments provided by the
representatives under this section and, if requested by them, must
respond to those comments.




(4)

The minister responsible may require an individual to make an oath or
affirmation of confidentiality before the individual may participate
in consultations under this section.




(5)

The minister responsible may enter into a memorandum of understanding
or other arrangement with the Union of British Columbia Municipalities
establishing alternatives to the obligations that would otherwise be
applicable under this section.






Consultation agreements




277

(1)


The minister responsible may enter into a memorandum of understanding
or other arrangement with the Union of British Columbia Municipalities
respecting consultations on




(a)

Provincial and municipal enactments, policies and programs,




(b)

interprovincial, national or international issues or agreements, or




(c)

any other matter that affects local governments or the Province.




(2)

The minister responsible and the Union of British Columbia
Municipalities must




(a)

if requested by the other party, engage in negotiations respecting an
arrangement under this section, and




(b)

use all reasonable efforts to reach agreement in negotiating an
arrangement under this section.




(3)

Without limiting the issues that may be dealt with by an arrangement
under this section, such an arrangement may include provisions
respecting one or more of the following:




(a)

who is to be consulted;




(b)

when and how the consultation is to take place;




(c)

information that is to be provided for the purposes of consultation;




(d)

how responses are to be provided and dealt with;




(e)

confidentiality.






Enforcement of obligations




278


The only persons who may enforce an obligation under section 276
[required consultations]
or 277
[consultation agreements]
are




(a)

the Provincial government, and




(b)

the Union of British Columbia Municipalities.






No forced amalgamations




279


If a new municipality would include 2 or more existing municipalities,
letters patent incorporating the new municipality may not be issued
unless




(a)

a vote has been taken in accordance with section 4 of the

Local Government Act

separately in each of the existing municipalities, and




(b)

for each of those municipalities, more than 50% of the votes counted
as valid favour the proposed incorporation.




Division 2 — Provincial Regulations





Regulations providing exemptions from approval requirements




280

(1)


In this section:



"approval requirement"

means a provision in or under this or any other Act that has the
effect of requiring approval or consent of the Lieutenant Governor in
Council, a minister, the inspector or another official before a
municipal bylaw or other action is adopted, is taken or is effective;



"responsible authority"

means




(a)

in relation to approval or consent of the Lieutenant Governor in
Council, the Lieutenant Governor in Council,




(b)

in relation to approval or consent of a minister, that minister,




(c)

in relation to approval or consent of the inspector, the minister
responsible for this Act, and




(d)

in relation to approval or consent of another official, the minister
responsible for the provision establishing the approval requirement.




(2)

Despite this or any other Act, the responsible authority may, by
regulation, provide exemptions from an approval requirement.




(3)

A regulation under this section may provide that an exemption is or
may be made subject to the terms and conditions specified by the
minister responsible or by a person designated by name or title in the
regulation.






Regulations providing additional powers and exceptions




281

(1)


Despite this or any other Act, the Lieutenant Governor in Council may,
by regulation, do one or more of the following in relation to a
specified municipality or a described class of municipalities:




(a)

provide a power, including a power to regulate, prohibit and impose
requirements;




(b)

provide an exception to or a modification of a requirement or
condition established by an enactment;




(c)

establish any terms and conditions the Lieutenant Governor in Council
considers appropriate regarding a power, modification or exception
under this section;




(d)

authorize a minister to establish any terms and conditions the
minister considers appropriate regarding a power, modification or
exception under this section.




(2)

As restrictions, a regulation made under this section may not do any
of the following:




(a)

override an absolute prohibition contained in an enactment;




(b)

confer an authority to impose a new tax;




(c)

confer an authority to grant a new tax exemption;




(d)

eliminate a requirement for obtaining the assent of the electors,
unless that requirement is modified by replacing it with a requirement
for obtaining the approval of the electors by alternative approval
process.






General regulation authority




282

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
section 41 of the

Interpretation Act

.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations as follows:




(a)

prescribing a body as a public authority or a local authority for the
purposes of one or more provisions of this Act or the

Local Government Act

;




(b)

without affecting any assignment under sections 9 to 11 of the

Constitution Act

, designating a minister as the minister responsible in relation to a
matter for the purposes of section 9
[spheres of concurrent authority]
, 276
[required consultations]
or 277
[consultation agreements]
;





(
b.1
)


in relation to section 14 (2.1)


[intermunicipal service, regulatory and other schemes]



, providing for the participation of local governments in an
intermunicipal scheme established under that subsection, including
respecting the following:






(
i
)



the powers, duties and functions of the participating local
governments, including the application of bylaws of one or more of
the participating local governments to another participating local
government;






(
ii
)



the delegation of the powers, duties and functions of the
participating local governments, including delegation by one or more
of the participating local governments to the following persons or
entities of another participating local government, as applicable:






(
A
)



a person or entity referred to in section 154 (1)


[delegation of council authority]

of this Act;





(
B
)



a person or entity referred to in section 229 (1)


[delegation of board authority]

of the


Local Government Act


;





(
iii
)



any restrictions on the authority of the participating local
governments;






(
iv
)



the process by which the participating local governments may
withdraw from the intermunicipal scheme;





(c)

in relation to section 93
[application of open meeting rules to other bodies]
or 145
[application of procedure rules to other bodies]
, or both,




(i)

prescribing a body or class of body for the purposes of the section,




(ii)

excluding a specified body from the application of the section, or




(iii)

modifying any of the provisions of the section in relation to a
specified body;




(d)

establishing requirements respecting the form and content of elector
response forms for the purposes of section 86
[alternative approval process]
;




(e)

providing exceptions to provisions of Division 6
[Conflict of Interest]
of Part 4
[Public Participation and Council Accountability]
;




(f)

defining words and expressions used in Parts 6
[Financial Management]
and 7
[Municipal Revenue]
;




(g)

prescribing matters for the purposes of section 286
[mandatory binding arbitration]
;




(h)

respecting any other matter for which regulations are contemplated by
this Act.






Variation authority




283


In addition to any other variation authority that is specifically
provided, a regulation that may be made by the Lieutenant Governor in
Council or a minister under any provision of this Act may




(a)

establish different classes of bylaws, municipalities, persons,
property, circumstances and other matters,




(b)

make different provisions, including exceptions, for different classes
of bylaws, municipalities, persons, property, circumstances and other
matters, and




(c)

make different provisions, including exceptions, for different bylaws,
different municipalities, different parts of municipalities and
different circumstances and other matters.




Division 3 — Dispute Resolution





Request for assistance in relation to intergovernmental dispute




284

(1)


If a dispute arises between a municipality and




(a)

another local government, or




(b)

the Provincial government or a Provincial government corporation,


and the parties cannot resolve the dispute, one or more of the parties
may apply to a dispute resolution officer for help in resolving the
dispute.




(2)

If an application is made under subsection (1), the dispute resolution
officer




(a)

must review the matter,




(b)

may attempt to help the parties to resolve the dispute by any process
the officer considers appropriate, including by using or referring the
matter to mediation or another non-binding resolution process, and




(c)

may assist the parties in determining how costs of the process are to
be apportioned.




(3)

This Division applies to the City of Vancouver.






Voluntary binding arbitration




285


If the parties to a dispute agree, a dispute resolution officer must
direct the dispute to resolution by binding arbitration under section
287
[final proposal arbitration]
or 288
[full arbitration]
.






Mandatory binding arbitration




286

(1)


This section applies to disputes between local governments respecting




(a)

an intermunicipal boundary highway, an intermunicipal transecting
highway, an intermunicipal bridge or an intermunicipal watercourse, or




(b)

a prescribed matter.




(2)

If a party to the dispute applies to a dispute resolution officer
then, subject to subsection (3), the officer must direct the dispute
to binding arbitration under section 287
[final proposal arbitration]
or 288
[full arbitration]
.




(3)

Before directing a dispute to binding arbitration under this section,
the dispute resolution officer may direct the dispute to mediation or
another non-binding resolution process.




(4)

The choice of arbitration process under this section is to be
determined by agreement between the parties but, if the dispute
resolution officer considers that the parties will not be able to
reach agreement, the officer may direct which process is to be used.




(5)

If more than one local government is involved in a matter that has
been directed to binding arbitration under this section, the
arbitrator may direct that the matter is to be settled for all local
governments in the same arbitration.




(6)

If a local government does not adopt the bylaws required under section
290
[implementation of arbitrator's decision]
in relation to an arbitration under this section, the Lieutenant
Governor in Council may, on the recommendation of the minister,
implement the terms and conditions of the arbitrator's decision.




(7)

An order under subsection (6) is deemed to be a bylaw of the local
government.






Final proposal arbitration




287


The following apply to a dispute referred to in section 285 or 286
that is to be resolved by final proposal arbitration:




(a)

the dispute is to be resolved by a single arbitrator;




(b)

the arbitrator is to be selected, from the list prepared under section
289 (1)
[arbitrator list]
, by agreement among the parties to the dispute or, if the dispute
resolution officer considers that these parties will not be able to
reach agreement, by the officer;




(c)

subject to any applicable regulations, the arbitrator must conduct the
proceedings on the basis of a review of written documents and written
submissions only, and must determine each disputed issue by selecting
one of the final written proposals for resolving that issue submitted
by one of the participating parties;




(d)

the matter in dispute will be as settled by the arbitrator after
incorporation of the final proposals selected by the arbitrator under
paragraph (c);




(e)

no written reasons are to be provided by the arbitrator.






Full arbitration




288


The following apply to a dispute referred to in section 285 or 286
that is to be resolved by full arbitration:




(a)

the dispute is to be resolved by a single arbitrator, who is to be
selected in accordance with section 287 (b)
[final proposal arbitration]
;




(b)

subject to any applicable regulations, the arbitrator may conduct the
proceedings at the times and in the manner the arbitrator determines;




(c)

the matter will be as settled by the arbitrator, who is not restricted
in the arbitrator's decision to submissions made by the parties on the
disputed issues;




(d)

the arbitrator must give written reasons for the decision.






General provisions regarding arbitration process




289

(1)


The minister must, after consultation with representatives of the
Union of British Columbia Municipalities, prepare a list of persons
who may be arbitrators under this Division.




(2)

If a dispute between local governments is referred to arbitration
under this Division, subject to a direction by the arbitrator or to an
agreement between the parties,




(a)

the fees and reasonable and necessary expenses of the arbitrator, and




(b)

the administrative costs of the process, other than the costs incurred
by the parties participating in the process,


are to be shared proportionately between the parties participating in
the process on the basis of the converted value of land and
improvements in their jurisdiction.




(3)

The time limit for bringing any judicial review of a decision of an
arbitrator under this Division is the end of the period for agreement
under section 290 (1).






Implementation of arbitrator's decision




290

(1)


During the 60 days after a matter is settled under section 287
[final proposal arbitration]
or 288
[full arbitration]
, the parties may agree on a settlement that differs from the decision
of the arbitrator.




(2)

At the end of the period referred to in subsection (1), unless
agreement is reached as referred to in that subsection, the decision
of the arbitrator becomes binding on the parties.




(3)

If the decision becomes binding under subsection (2), the parties to
the arbitration must adopt the bylaws and take the other actions
required to implement the terms and conditions of the arbitrator's
decision within 90 days after it becomes binding under that
subsection.




(4)

Despite any other provision of this Act or any other Act, approval of
the electors or assent of the electors is not required for a bylaw
referred to in subsection (3).




(5)

A dispute resolution officer may extend the time period under
subsection (1) before or after it has expired.






Regulations respecting arbitrations




291


The minister may make regulations respecting arbitrations under this
Division and, without limiting this, may make regulations respecting
one or more of the following:




(a)

matters that an arbitrator must or may consider;




(b)

the authority of an arbitrator to resolve the terms and conditions for
a dispute;




(c)

the authority of an arbitrator to require the cooperation of the
parties to the arbitration and their officials and representatives in
relation to the arbitration.






Commencement




292


This Act comes into force by regulation of the Lieutenant Governor in
Council.




Schedule


Definitions and Rules of Interpretation





Definitions




1


In this Act and in a bylaw or resolution under this Act:



"alternative approval process"

means the process for obtaining approval of the electors established
by section 86
[alternative approval process]
;


"animal"
means any member of the animal kingdom, other than a human being;



"annual property tax bylaw"

means a bylaw under section 197
[annual property tax bylaw]
;



"approval of the electors"

means approval in accordance with section 84
[approval of the electors]
;


"aquifer"
has the same meaning as in section 1 (1) of the
Water Sustainability Act
;



"assent of the electors"

means assent in accordance with section 85
[assent of the electors]
;



"assessed value"

means assessed value determined under the
Assessment Act
;



"assessment roll"

means an assessment roll within the meaning of the
Assessment Act
;


"assessor"
means an assessor appointed under the
Assessment Authority Act
;


"assistance"
means assistance within the meaning of section 25 (1)
[prohibition against assistance to business]
;



"building inspector"

means an individual designated by the council as a building inspector
for the municipality;


"business"
means




(a)

carrying on a commercial or industrial activity or undertaking of any
kind, and




(b)

providing professional, personal or other services for the purpose of
gain or profit,


but does not include an activity carried on by the Provincial
government, by corporations owned by the Provincial government, by
agencies of the Provincial government or by the South Coast British
Columbia Transportation Authority or any of its subsidiaries.



"business licence"

means a licence required for a business under section 8 (6)
[spheres of authority — business]
;


"charge"
, in relation to an estate or interest in land, means a charge under
the
Land Title Act
;


"collector"
means the municipal officer assigned responsibility as collector of
taxes for the municipality;



"converted value of land and improvements"

means the net taxable value of land and improvements multiplied by the
percentage prescribed by regulation for this purpose;



"corporate officer"

means the municipal officer assigned responsibility under section 148
[corporate officer]
;


"council"
means the council of a municipality;



"council committee"

means




(a)

a select committee of a council,




(b)

a standing committee of a council, or




(c)

any other body established by a council that is composed solely of
council members;


"councillor"
means a member of a council other than the mayor;



"designated municipal officer"

means




(a)

the municipal officer assigned responsibility under section 146
[officer positions]
in relation to the matter, or




(b)

if no assignment referred to in paragraph (a) has been made, the
corporate officer;



"dispute resolution officer"

means a person designated by the minister to assist in the resolution
of disputes for the purposes of Division 3
[Dispute Resolution]
of Part 9
[Governmental Relations]
;



"domestic animal"

means an animal that is tame or kept, or that has been or is being
sufficiently tamed or kept, to serve some purpose for people;


"election"
means an election for office on a council;



"extraordinary traffic"

includes the carriage of goods or persons in vehicles over a highway
that, in conjunction with the nature or existing condition of the
highway, the council considers is so extraordinary in




(a)

the quality or quantity of the goods or the number of persons carried,




(b)

the mode or time of use of the highway, or




(c)

the speed at which the vehicles are driven or operated,


that it substantially alters or increases the burden imposed on the
highway through its proper use by ordinary traffic, and causes damage
to the highway or resulting expense to the municipality beyond what is
reasonable or ordinary;


"farm land"
means land classified under the
Assessment Act
as a farm;


"fee"
includes a fee by any name, including a charge;



"financial officer"

means the municipal officer assigned responsibility under section 149
[financial officer]
;



"financial plan"

means the current financial plan for a municipality under section 165
[financial plan]
;


"firearms"
includes air guns, air rifles, air pistols and spring guns;



"first nation"

means an aboriginal governing body, however it is organized and
established by aboriginal people in their traditional territory in
British Columbia;



"general bylaw"

means a bylaw referred to in section 138
[municipal codes and other general bylaws]
;



"general property tax"

means a property value tax or a parcel tax that is imposed in the
municipality generally;



"greater board"

means the corporate body, incorporated by an Act, with responsibility
for the provision of water or sewage and drainage services;


"highway"
includes a street, road, lane, bridge, viaduct and any other way open
to public use, other than a private right of way on private property;


"impose"
, in relation to a tax, includes levy;



"improvements"

means improvements as defined in the
Assessment Act
;


"inspector"
means the Inspector of Municipalities under section 758 of the
Local Government Act
;



"intermunicipal boundary highway"

means a highway that forms all or part of the boundary between 2 or
more municipalities, including any part of such a highway that
deviates so that it is wholly or partly inside one or more of the
municipalities, but does not include all or part of an intermunicipal
transecting highway;



"intermunicipal bridge"

means a bridge that crosses a river, stream or other body of water
that forms all or part of the boundary between 2 or more
municipalities;



"intermunicipal transecting highway"

means a highway that transects 2 or more municipalities and serves
those municipalities;



"intermunicipal watercourse"

means




(a)

a natural stream or watercourse that forms the boundary between, or
runs through, more than one municipality, or




(b)

a stream or watercourse referred to in section 311
[regional district equivalent]
of the
Local Government Act
;


"justice"
means a justice as defined in the
Offence Act
;


"land"




(a)

for the purposes of assessment and taxation, means land as defined in
the
Assessment Act
, and




(b)

for other purposes, includes the surface of water, but does not
include




(i)

improvements,




(ii)

mines or minerals belonging to the Crown, or




(iii)

mines or minerals for which title in fee simple has been registered in
the land title office;



"land title office"

means the applicable land title office under the
Land Title Act
;



"loan authorization bylaw"

means a bylaw under section 179
[loan authorization bylaws for long term borrowing]
;



"local area service"

means a service referred to in section 210 (1)
[authority for local area services]
;



"local authority"

means




(a)

a municipality, including the City of Vancouver,




(b)

a regional district,




(c)

the trust council, a local trust committee and the Islands Trust
Conservancy within the meaning of the
Islands Trust Act
,




(d)

a greater board,




(e)

an improvement district, and




(f)

any other local body prescribed by regulation as a local authority for
the purposes of one or more provisions of this Act or the
Local Government Act
;



"local service area"

means the area in which a local service tax is imposed;



"local service tax"

means a tax imposed under section 216
[local service taxes]
;



"minister responsible"

means the minister responsible in relation to the applicable matter;



"municipality"

means, as applicable,




(a)

the corporation into which the residents of an area are incorporated
as a municipality under Part 2
[Incorporation of Municipalities and Regional Districts]
of the
Local Government Act
or under any other Act, or




(b)

the geographic area of the municipal corporation,


but does not include the City of Vancouver unless otherwise provided;



"net taxable value"

, in relation to land or improvements or both, means




(a)

if the
Hospital District Act
applies, the net taxable value of land or improvements or both for
regional hospital district purposes, and




(b)

if the
Hospital District Act
does not apply, the net taxable value of land or improvements or both
determined as if the
Hospital District Act
applies;


"newspaper"
means, in relation to a requirement or authorization for publication
in a newspaper, a publication or local periodical that contains items
of news and advertising;


"occupier"




(a)

for the purposes of Division 8
[Tax Liability of Occupiers]
of Part 7
[Municipal Revenue]
, means occupier as defined in the
Assessment Act
, and




(b)

for other purposes, means a person




(i)

who is qualified to maintain an action for trespass,




(ii)

who is in possession of Crown land under a homestead entry or
preemption record,




(iii)

who is in possession of




(A)

Crown land, or




(B)

land owned by a municipality or regional district


under a lease, licence, agreement for sale, accepted application to
purchase, easement or other record from the Crown, municipality or
regional district, or




(iv)

who simply occupies the land;


"owner"
means, in respect of real property,




(a)

the registered owner of an estate in fee simple,




(b)

the tenant for life under a registered life estate,




(c)

the registered holder of the last registered agreement for sale,




(d)

the holder or occupier of land held in the manner referred to in
section 228
[taxation of Crown land used by others]
or section 229
[taxation of municipal land used by others]
, and




(e)

an Indian who is an owner under the letters patent of a municipality
incorporated under section 9
[incorporation of reserve residents as village]
of the
Local Government Act
;


"parcel"
means any lot, block or other area in which land is held or into which
it is subdivided, but does not include a highway;


"parcel tax"
means a tax imposed on the basis of a single amount for each parcel,
the taxable area of a parcel or the taxable frontage of a parcel;



"parcel tax roll review panel"

means a parcel tax roll review panel under section 204;



"partnering agreement"

means an agreement between a municipality and a person or public
authority under which the person or public authority agrees to provide
a service on behalf of the municipality, other than a service that is
part of the general administration of the municipality;


"population"
means, in relation to an area,




(a)

population for the area as determined by the most recent population
census, or




(b)

if the population has not been established for the area by census,
population determined by the minister;



"procedure bylaw"

means a bylaw under section 124
[procedure bylaws]
;



"property class"

means a property class under the
Assessment Act
;



"property taxes"

means taxes under Division 3
[Property Value Taxes]
, 4
[Parcel Taxes]
or 5
[Local Service Taxes]
of Part 7
[Municipal Revenue]
;



"property value tax"

means a tax imposed on the basis of the value of land or improvements
or both;



"Provincial arterial highway"

has the same meaning as "arterial highway" in section 1 of the
Transportation Act
;



"Provincial building regulations"

has the same meaning as "building regulation" in the
Building Act
;



"public authority"

means any of the following:




(a)

the government of Canada, the government of British Columbia or the
government of another province, or an agent of any of them;




(b)

a local government body, educational body or health care body, as
those terms are defined in the
Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act
;




(c)

a first nation;




(d)

a body in another province or country that provides local government
services;




(e)

any other body prescribed by regulation as a public authority for the
purposes of one or more provisions of this Act or the
Local Government Act
;



"public notice posting places"

means the places identified as such in a procedure bylaw;



"real property"

means land, with or without improvements so affixed to the land as to
make them in fact and law a part of it;


"registered"
, in relation to an interest in land less than the fee simple, means
registered as a charge;



"registered mail"

includes any method of mail delivery provided by the Canada Post
Office for which confirmation of delivery to a named person is
provided;



"registered owner"

means the person registered in the land title office as entitled to
the fee simple;



"registrar of land titles"

means the applicable registrar of a land title district under the
Land Title Act
;


"regulate"
includes authorize, control, inspect, limit and restrict, including by
establishing rules respecting what must or must not be done, in
relation to the persons, properties, activities, things or other
matters being regulated;



"remedial action requirement"

means a requirement imposed under section 72
[council may impose remedial action requirements]
;



"reserve fund"

means a reserve fund under Division 4
[Reserve Funds]
of Part 6
[Financial Management]
;


"seize"
includes impound and detain;


"service"
means, in relation to a municipality, an activity, work or facility
undertaken or provided by or on behalf of the municipality;


"soil"
includes sand, gravel, rock and other substances of which land is
composed;


"stream"
has the same meaning as in section 1 (1) of the
Water Sustainability Act
;


"tax sale"
means a tax sale under Division 7
[Annual Municipal Tax Sale]
of Part 16
[Municipal Provisions]
of the
Local Government Act
;


"trees"
includes shrubs;


"wildlife"
means animals prescribed by regulation as wildlife.






Application of
Local Government Act
definitions




2


Subject to the definitions established by section 1 of this Schedule,
section 1
[definitions]
of the Schedule to the
Local Government Act
applies to this Act.






Special rule for Mountain Time Zone




3


In those municipalities in which Mountain Standard Time or Mountain
Daylight Time is customarily used, section 26
[Pacific Standard Time and Pacific Daylight Saving Time]
of the
Interpretation Act
does not apply and instead a reference to a specified time of the day
is a reference to Mountain Standard Time or Mountain Daylight Time, as
applicable.






References to municipal officers




4


Words in an enactment referring to a municipal officer, by name of
office or otherwise, also apply to




(a)

the officer's deputy, and




(b)

any person designated by the council to act in the officer's place.




