





View Complete Regulation






B.C. Reg. 26/58

O.C. 1004/58







This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.

See the

Cumulative B.C. Regulations Bulletin 2023


for amendments effective after March 5, 2024.





Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Motor Vehicle Act


Motor Vehicle Act Regulations


[Last amended November 27, 2023 by B.C. Reg. 244/2023]



Division 30 — Drivers' Licences





Definitions and interpretation




30.01

(1)


In this Division:



"all terrain cycle"

means a 3 wheeled motor vehicle designed for the transportation of
persons, property or equipment exclusively on marshland, open country
or other unprepared surfaces;


"bus"
means a motor vehicle having a seating capacity of more than 10
persons, including the driver, that is operated for hire or for public
transportation;



"construction vehicle"

means any motor vehicle or combination of vehicles known or described
as a tractor, grader, loader, shovel, roller, scraper or any other
self propelled road building machine that is used for grading of
highways, paving of highways or other construction work, but does not
include a truck, truck tractor, mobile truck crane or truck mounted
backhoe that has 3 or more axles;



"immediate family member"

means a spouse, parent, grandparent, child, grandchild, sibling,
step-parent, step-grandparent, step-child, step-grandchild,
step-sibling, foster parent, foster grandparent, foster child, foster
grandchild or foster sibling;



"learner driving experience"

means the total amount of time a person has held a valid learner's
licence, which licence may have been issued by another jurisdiction,
and does not include any periods of time during which




(a)

the licence was suspended other than under section 90.3 of the Act,




(b)

the licence was surrendered, or




(c)

the licence holder was prohibited from driving other than under
section 215 of the Act;



"learner's licence"

means a driver's licence issued subject to regulations enacted under
section 25 (8) of the Act;



"licensed driver training instructor"

means a driver training instructor as defined in section 27.01 who is
licensed under Division 27;



"mobile truck crane"

means a motor vehicle with a crane permanently affixed, with or
without a booster dolly or booster axles, designed and used primarily
for lifting or hoisting objects and operated or moved over a highway
incidentally to its designed purpose or function;



"non-learner driving experience"

means the total amount of time a person has held a valid driver's
licence other than a learner's licence, which licence may have been
issued by another jurisdiction, and does not include any periods of
time during which




(a)

the licence was suspended other than under section 90.3 of the Act,




(b)

the licence was surrendered, or




(c)

the licence holder was prohibited from driving other than under
section 215 of the Act;



"practical driver training"

means practical driver training as defined in section 27.01.




(2)

The classes of driver's licences and the categories of motor vehicles
that the holders of each class of licence are permitted to drive are
as follows:




(a)

Class 8
licence, subject to the applicable conditions and restrictions under
sections 30.10 (4), 30.11 (1) and 30.12 (1), permits operation of a
motorcycle, an all terrain cycle or an all terrain vehicle;




(b)

Class 8L
licence is a learner's licence that, subject to the applicable
conditions and restrictions under sections 30.06 (4), (7) (b) and (8),
30.07 (1), 30.08 (1) and (2), 30.09 (5), 30.10 (2) and 30.11 (1),
permits operation of a motor vehicle or combination of vehicles for
which a Class 8 licence is required;




(c)

Class 7
licence, subject to the applicable conditions and restrictions under
sections 30.10 (4) and 30.11 (1), permits operation of




(i)

a 2 axle motor vehicle other than a motorcycle, but does not include a
bus, school bus, special activity bus, special vehicle, taxi or
ambulance, when used for its purpose as intended by design,




(ii)

a 2 axle motor vehicle or 2 axle tow car with towed vehicles if the
towed vehicles in that combination do not exceed 4 600 kg,




(iii)

a motor home or motor home with towed vehicles if the towed vehicles
in that combination do not exceed 4 600 kg,




(iv)

a limited speed motorcycle, all terrain vehicle, all terrain cycle or
utility vehicle,




(v)

a construction vehicle, or




(vi)

despite subparagraph (i), a school bus that




(A)

is a passenger vehicle as defined in section 11.01 (1), and




(B)

has a seating capacity of not more than 10 passengers including the
driver;




(d)

Class 7L
licence is a learner's licence that, subject to the applicable
conditions and restrictions under sections 30.06 (1)
and (2), 30.07 (3), 30.09 (3), 30.10 (2) and
30.11 (1), permits operation of a motor vehicle or combination of
vehicles for which a Class 7 licence is required;




(e)

Class 6
licence permits operation of a motor vehicle or combination of
vehicles for which a Class 8 licence is required, subject to any
applicable restriction under section 30.12 (1);




(f)

Class 6L
licence is a learner's licence that, subject to the applicable
conditions and restrictions under sections 30.06 (4),
(7) (a) and (8), 30.07 (1), 30.08 (1) and (2)
and 30.09 (1) and (11), permits operation of a motor vehicle
or combination of vehicles for which a Class 6 licence is
required;




(g)

Class 5
licence permits




(i)

operation of a motor vehicle or combination of vehicles for which a
Class 7 licence is required, and




(ii)

if permitted on the licence, operation of a combination of vehicles
referred to in paragraph (c) (ii) or (iii) that are without air brakes
even if the towed vehicles in that combination exceed 4 600 kg;




(h)

Class 5L
licence is a learner's licence that, subject to the applicable
conditions and restrictions under sections 30.06 (1) and 30.09 (8) and
(9), permits operation of a motor vehicle or combination of vehicles
for which a Class 5 licence referred to in paragraph (g) (i) is
required;




(i)

Class 4
licence permits




(i)

operation of a motor vehicle or combination of vehicles for which a
Class 5 licence is required,




(ii)

operation of an ambulance or taxi,




(iii)

if permitted on the licence, operation of an ambulance or taxi with
towed vehicles, none of which have air brakes, even if the towed
vehicles in that combination exceed 4 600 kg,




(iv)

operation of a school bus, a special activity bus, a special vehicle
or a bus with a seating capacity of not more than 25 persons including
the driver, or




(v)

if permitted on the licence, operation of a motor vehicle referred to
in subparagraph (iv) with towed vehicles, none of which have air
brakes, even if the towed vehicles in that combination exceed 4 600
kg;




(j)

Class 4L
licence is a learner's licence that, subject to subsection (3) and the
applicable condition and restriction under section 30.06 (1) and (10),
permits operation of a motor vehicle or combination of vehicles for
which a Class 4 licence is required;




(k)

Class 3
licence permits operation of




(i)

a motor vehicle or combination of vehicles for which a Class 5 licence
is required,




(ii)

a motor vehicle with 3 or more axles other than a bus when used for
its purpose as intended by design,




(iii)

a tow car and its recovered vehicle,




(iv)

a mobile truck crane,




(v)

a combination of vehicles if the towed vehicles in that combination do
not exceed 4 600 kg, or




(vi)

a combination of vehicles without air brakes if the towed vehicles
exceed 4 600 kg;




(l)

Class 3L
licence is a learner's licence that, subject to the applicable
condition under section 30.06 (1), permits operation of a motor
vehicle or combination of vehicles for which a Class 3 licence is
required;




(m)

Class 2
licence permits operation of




(i)

a motor vehicle or combination of vehicles for which a Class 4 licence
is required,




(ii)

a bus, school bus, special activity bus or special vehicle, or




(iii)

a combination of vehicles without air brakes if the towed vehicles
exceed 4 600 kg;




(n)

Class 2L
licence is a learner's licence that, subject to the applicable
condition and restriction under sections 30.06 (1) and (10), permits
operation of a motor vehicle or combination of vehicles for which a
Class 2 licence is required;




(o)

Class 1
licence permits operation of any motor vehicle or combination of
vehicles but does not include the operation of a motorcycle other than
a limited speed motorcycle or all terrain cycle;




(p)

Class 1L
licence is a learner's licence that, subject to the applicable
condition and restriction under sections 30.06 (1) and (10), permits
operation of a motor vehicle or combination of vehicles for which a
Class 1 licence is required.




(3)

A Class 4L licence may not permit operation of a motor vehicle
referred to in subsection (2) (g) (ii) or (i) (iii) or (v).


[en. B.C. Reg. 133/89, s. 3; am. B.C. Regs. 109/91; 274/91; 257/98,
App. 1, s. 5; 235/2000, s. 1; 270/2000, s. 1; 354/2003, Sch., s. 1;
351/2008, Sch., s. 16; 308/2009, Sch. 2, s. 1 (b) and (c); 132/2010;
120/2012, Sch., ss. 1 and 2; 235/2021, Sch. 1, s. 3; 76/2022, s. 11.]






Mandatory entry-level training course




30.011


For the purposes of section 23 (1) (a.1) of the Act, the Class 1
mandatory entry-level training course




(a)

is a mandatory entry-level training course, and




(b)

is a prescribed training course for a Class 1 licence.

[en. B.C. Reg. 100/2021, Sch. 1, s. 9.]





Prohibition on air brakes




30.02


The operation of a vehicle equipped with air brakes, other than a
construction vehicle, is not permitted by any class of licence
referred to in section 30.01 unless specifically permitted in the
licence.

[en. B.C. Reg. 133/89, s. 3.]





Exemptions




30.03


A peace officer, a person authorized to inspect vehicles pursuant to
the Motor Vehicle Inspectors Authorization Regulation or a person
employed by the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia as an
examiner of drivers is exempt from this Division while driving or
operating a motor vehicle




(a)

as a result of an accident or other emergency,




(b)

for the purpose of inspecting the motor vehicle,




(c)

for the purpose of examining the driver, or




(d)

as part of the person's duties.


[en. B.C. Reg. 133/89, s. 3; am. B.C. Regs. 317/96, s. 7; 64/2021, s.
6.]






Age of driver and expiry of learner's licence




30.04

(1)


The holder of a driver's licence must be at least




(a)

16 years of age for a Class 5, 5L, 6, 6L, 7, 7L, 8 or 8L licence,




(b)

18 years of age for a Class 3 or 3L licence, and




(c)

19 years of age for a Class 1, 1L, 2, 2L, 4 or 4L licence.




(2)

The classes of learner's licence expire as follows:




(a)

a Class 1L, 2L, 3L, 4L, 5L or 6L licence expires one year after its
date of issue;




(b)

a Class 7L or Class 8L licence, if issued before October 6, 2003,
expires one year after its date of issue;




(c)

a Class 7L or Class 8L licence, if issued on or after October 6, 2003,
expires 2 years after its date of issue.


[en. B.C. Reg. 257/98, App. 1, s. 6; am. B.C. Reg. 354/2003, Sch., s.
2.]






Minimum driving experience, skills and other qualifications




30.05

(1)


Subject to sections 30.051, 30.052 and 30.053, an applicant for a
Class 1, 2, 3 or 4 licence must




(a)

hold a valid and subsisting Class 1L, 2L, 3L or 4L licence, as the
case may be,




(b)

have held a class 1, 2, 3 or 4 licence, as the case may be, or




(c)

hold or have held a similar class of driver's licence from another
jurisdiction, as determined by the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia, and have at least 2 years of non-learner driving experience.




(2)

An applicant for a Class 1L, 2L, 3L or 4L licence must




(a)

have a driving record that shows




(i)

fewer than 4 convictions for offences listed in the Schedule to
Division 28 or convictions in another jurisdiction for similar
offences, as determined by the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia, in the 2 years prior to the application, and




(ii)

no convictions for the

Criminal Code

offences listed in the Schedule to Division 28 or convictions in
another jurisdiction for similar offences, as determined by the
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia, in the 3 years prior to the
application, and




(b)

either




(i)

hold or have held a Class 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6 licence, or




(ii)

hold or have held a licence similar to a Class 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 or
8 licence issued by another jurisdiction, as determined by the
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia, and have at least 2 years
of non-learner driving experience.




(3)

An applicant for a Class 5 licence must




(a)

hold or have held a Class 1, 2, 3 or 4 licence,




(b)

have held a Class 5 licence,




(c)

hold or have held a Class 7 licence issued before October 6, 2003 and
have at least 18 months of non-learner driving experience, unless
paragraph (c.1) or (c.2) applies,




(c.1)

have held a Class 7 licence issued before October 6, 2003, and, if the
applicant is, on that date, subject to a prohibition or suspension




(i)

under section 93, 94.1, 98, 99, 100, or 232 of the Act, or




(ii)

resulting from a conviction for a motor vehicle related

Criminal Code

offence, or from a conviction in any other jurisdiction for an offence
that is similar to a motor vehicle related

Criminal Code

offence, as determined by the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia,


have non-learner driving experience accumulated before the
commencement of the prohibition or suspension, plus non-learner
driving experience accumulated after the end of the prohibition or
suspension that is uninterrupted by a prohibition or suspension
referred to in subparagraph (i) or (ii), totalling at least 24 months,




(c.2)

have held a Class 7 licence issued before October 6, 2003, and if the
applicant is, on or after that date, prohibited or suspended




(i)

under section 93, 94.1, 98, 99, 100, or 232 of the Act, or




(ii)

as a result of a conviction for a motor vehicle related

Criminal Code

offence, or of a conviction in any other jurisdiction for an offence
that is similar to a motor vehicle related

Criminal Code

offence, as determined by the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia,


have at least 24 months of non-learner driving experience accumulated
after the end of the prohibition or suspension that is uninterrupted
by a prohibition or suspension referred to in subparagraph (i) or
(ii),




(c.3)

hold or have held a Class 7 licence issued on or after October 6,
2003, and have at least 24 months of non-learner driving experience
that is uninterrupted by a prohibition or suspension




(i)

under section 93, 94.1, 98, 99, 100, or 232 of the Act, or




(ii)

as a result of a conviction for a motor vehicle related

Criminal Code

offence, or of a conviction in any other jurisdiction for an offence
that is similar to a motor vehicle related

Criminal Code

offence, as determined by the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia,

unless paragraph (c.1) or (c.2) applies,



(d)

hold or have held a licence similar to a Class 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 7
licence issued by another jurisdiction, as determined by the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia, and have at least 2 years of
non-learner driving experience, or




(e)

hold a valid and subsisting Class 5L licence.




(f)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 354/2003, Sch. s. 3 (e).]




(4)

An applicant for a Class 5L licence must




(a)

hold or have held a Class 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6 licence, or




(b)

hold or have held a licence similar to a Class 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 or
8 licence issued by another jurisdiction, as determined by the
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia, and have at least 2 years
of non-learner driving experience.




(5)

An applicant for a Class 6 licence must




(a)

have held a Class 6 licence,




(b)

hold or have held a Class 8 licence issued before October 6, 2003 and
have at least 18 months of non-learner driving experience, unless
paragraph (b.1) or (b.2) applies,




(b.1)

have held a Class 8 licence issued before October 6, 2003, and, if the
applicant is, on that date, subject to a prohibition or suspension




(i)

under section 93, 94.1, 98, 99, 100, or 232 of the Act, or




(ii)

resulting from a conviction for a motor vehicle related

Criminal Code

offence, or from a conviction in any other jurisdiction for an offence
that is similar to a motor vehicle related

Criminal Code

offence, as determined by the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia,


have non-learner driving experience accumulated before the
commencement of the prohibition or suspension, plus non-learner
driving experience accumulated after the end of the prohibition or
suspension that is uninterrupted by a prohibition or suspension
referred to in subparagraph (i) or (ii), totalling at least 24 months,




(b.2)

have held a Class 8 licence issued before October 6, 2003, and if the
applicant is, on or after that date prohibited or suspended




(i)

under section 93, 94.1, 98, 99, 100, or 232 of the Act, or




(ii)

as a result of a conviction for a motor vehicle related

Criminal Code

offence, or of a conviction in any other jurisdiction for an offence
that is similar to a motor vehicle related

Criminal Code

offence, as determined by the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia,


have at least 24 months of non-learner driving experience accumulated
after the end of the prohibition or suspension that is uninterrupted
by a prohibition or suspension referred to in subparagraph (i) or
(ii),




(b.3)

hold or have held a Class 8 licence issued on or after October 6,
2003, and have at least 24 months of non-learner driving experience
that is uninterrupted by a prohibition or suspension




(i)

under section 93, 94.1, 98, 99, 100, or 232 of the Act, or




(ii)

as a result of a conviction for a motor vehicle related

Criminal Code

offence, or of a conviction in any other jurisdiction for an offence
that is similar to a motor vehicle related

Criminal Code

offence, as determined by the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia,

unless paragraph (b.1) or (b.2) applies,



(c)

hold or have held a licence similar to a Class 6 or 8 licence issued
by another jurisdiction, as determined by the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia, and have at least 2 years of non-learner driving
experience, or




(d)

hold a valid and subsisting Class 6L licence.




(e)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 354/2003, Sch., s. 3 (j).]




(6)

An applicant for a Class 6L licence must




(a)

hold or have held a Class 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6 licence, or




(b)

hold or have held a licence similar to a Class 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 or
8 licence issued by another jurisdiction, as determined by the
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia, and have at least 2 years
of non-learner driving experience.




(7)

An applicant for a Class 7 licence must




(a)

hold a valid and subsisting Class 7L licence,




(b)

have held a Class 7 licence, or




(c)

hold or have held a licence similar to a Class 7 licence issued by
another jurisdiction, as determined by the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia.




(8)

An applicant for a Class 8 licence must




(a)

hold a valid and subsisting Class 8L licence,




(b)

have held a Class 8 licence, or




(c)

hold or have held a licence similar to a Class 8 licence issued by
another jurisdiction, as determined by the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia.




(9)

An applicant for a Class 8L licence must




(a)

hold a valid and subsisting Class 7 licence, or




(b)

hold a valid and subsisting Class 7L licence.




(10)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 270/2000, s. 2.]




(11)

The qualifications and requirements set out in subsections (1) to (9)
are in addition to and not in place of any other requirement,
restriction or condition imposed under the Act or the regulations for
the application.


[en. B.C. Reg. 257/98, App. 1, s. 6; am. B.C. Regs. 158/99; 270/2000,
s. 2; 354/2003, Sch., s. 3; 338/2012, Sch. 2, s. 4; 100/2021, Sch. 2,
s. 1.]






Class 1 mandatory entry-level training requirements —

applications




30.051

(1)


Subject to sections 30.052 and 30.053, an applicant for a Class 1
licence must demonstrate that the applicant has successfully
completed, to the satisfaction of the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia,




(a)

the Class 1 mandatory entry-level training course, or




(b)

subject to subsection (2), a similar training course in another
Canadian jurisdiction to the Class 1 mandatory entry-level training
course, as determined by the corporation.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1) (b), the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia may determine that an applicant is required to
complete a part of the Class 1 mandatory entry-level training course
for the corporation to consider the training course in another
Canadian jurisdiction similar to the Class 1 mandatory entry-level
training course.

[en. B.C. Reg. 100/2021, Sch. 2, s. 2.]





Class 1 mandatory entry-level training requirements —

exemptions for Class 1 licence holders and reciprocal exemptions




30.052

(1)


In this section and section 30.053,
"Class 1 road test"
means a road test required by the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia to determine an applicant's driving experience, driving
skills, qualifications, fitness and ability to drive and operate a
motor vehicle for which a Class 1 licence is required.




(2)

The following applicants for a Class 1 licence under section 30.05 are
exempt from the requirements for an application referred to in
section 30.051 (1):




(a)

an applicant who




(i)

holds or held a Class 1 licence, and




(ii)

at the time of the application, the licence has been valid and
subsisting within the previous 3 years;




(b)

an applicant who holds or has held a similar class of licence from
another Canadian jurisdiction, as determined by the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia,




(i)

who has held the licence for a period of 24 or more consecutive
months, and




(ii)

at the time of the application, the licence has been valid and
subsisting within the previous 3 years;




(c)

subject to paragraph (e), an applicant who holds or has held a similar
class of licence from another Canadian jurisdiction, as determined by
the corporation,




(i)

who holds or has held the licence for a period of 12 consecutive
months to less than 24 consecutive months,




(ii)

at the time of the application, the licence has been valid and
subsisting within the previous 3 years, and




(iii)

the applicant successfully completes a Class 1 road test




(A)

within 2 attempts, if the corporation allows for multiple attempts to
successfully complete a Class 1 road test, and




(B)

within 12 months of the date of the application;




(d)

subject to paragraph (e), an applicant who




(i)

has successfully completed a similar training course to the Class 1
mandatory entry-level training course in another Canadian
jurisdiction, as determined by the corporation, and




(ii)

successfully completes a Class 1 road test




(A)

within 2 attempts, if the corporation allows for multiple attempts to
successfully complete a Class 1 road test, and




(B)

within 12 months of the date of the application;




(e)

an applicant for a Class 1 licence may use the exemption in paragraph
(c) or (d) only on the applicant's first application for a
Class 1 licence.

[en. B.C. Reg. 100/2021, Sch. 2, s. 2.]





Transition exemption — in-progress Class 1 licence applications on
October 18, 2021




30.053


An applicant for a Class 1 licence in accordance with
section 30.05 who meets the following conditions is exempt from
the requirements for an application referred to in section 30.051 (1):




(a)

the applicant held a valid Class 1L licence on
March 31, 2021,




(b)

the applicant attempted one or more Class 1 road tests on or after
March 31, 2021 and before October 18, 2021, and




(c)

the applicant successfully completes the Class 1 road test




(i)

within 2 attempts, if the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia
allows for multiple attempts to successfully complete a Class 1
road test, and




(ii)

on or after October 18, 2021 but before January 19, 2022.

[en. B.C. Reg. 100/2021, Sch. 2, s. 2.]





Accompanying adult conditions and passenger restrictions for learner's
licence




30.06

(1)


A person to whom a Class 1L, 2L, 3L, 4L or 5L licence is issued, or a
person to whom a Class 7L licence is issued before October 6, 2003,
must not operate a motor vehicle of a category designated in section
30.01 (2) for the class of licence issued unless the person is
accompanied by another person who




(a)

is at least 19 years of age,




(b)

holds a valid and subsisting driver's licence, other than a learner's
licence or a Class 7 licence, of a class that permits the person to
operate a motor vehicle of that category, and




(c)

occupies




(i)

the seat beside the operator, or




(ii)

the seat or area immediately behind and to the right of the operator,
in the case of a motor vehicle of the category designated for the
class of licence issued in which there is no seat beside the operator.




(1.1)

A person to whom a Class 7L licence is issued on or after October 6,
2003 must not operate a motor vehicle of a category designated in
section 30.01 (2) for that class of driver's licence unless the person
is accompanied by another person who




(a)

is at least 25 years of age or is a licensed driver training
instructor engaged in providing practical driver training in
accordance with Division 27,




(b)

holds a valid and subsisting driver's licence, other than a learner's
licence or a Class 7 licence, of a class that permits the person to
operate a motor vehicle of that category, and




(c)

occupies




(i)

the seat beside the operator, or




(ii)

the seat or area immediately behind and to the right of the operator,
in the case of a motor vehicle of the category designated for the
class of licence issued in which there is no seat beside the operator.




(2)

A person to whom a Class 7L licence is issued must not carry more than
one passenger, other than the accompanying person under subsection
(1), while operating a motor vehicle of a category designated in
section 30.01 (2) for that class of driver's licence.




(3)

The passenger restriction under subsection (2) does not apply in the
course of the person receiving practical driver training that is being
conducted in accordance with Division 27 by a licensed driver training
instructor.




(4)

A person to whom a Class 6L licence is issued, or a person to whom a
Class 8L licence is issued before October 6, 2003, must not operate a
motorcycle unless the person is under the direct supervision of
another person who




(a)

is at least 19 years of age, and




(b)

holds a valid and subsisting driver's licence, other than a learner's
licence or a Class 8 licence, of a class that permits the person to
operate a motorcycle.




(4.1)

A person to whom a Class 8L licence is issued on or after October 6,
2003 must not operate a motorcycle unless the person is under the
direct supervision of another person who




(a)

is at least 25 years of age or is a licensed driver training
instructor engaged in providing practical training in accordance with
Division 27, and




(b)

holds a valid and subsisting driver's licence, other than a learner's
licence or a Class 8 licence, of a class that permits the person to
operate a motorcycle.




(5)

For the purposes of subsections (4) and (4.1),
"direct supervision"
means that the person supervising can, at all times, see the other
person while the other person is operating the motorcycle.




(6)

Subject to the minimum waiting periods set out in subsection (7), the
direct supervision condition under subsections (4) and (4.1) applies
only until the person referred to in that subsection undertakes and
successfully completes a road skills test required by the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia for this purpose.




(7)

A person to whom a Class 6L or 8L licence is issued is not entitled to
submit to the road skills test referred to in subsection (6) until
expiration of the following waiting period, as applicable:




(a)

a 14 day waiting period that begins on the date the Class 6L licence
is issued;




(b)

a 30 day waiting period that begins on the date the Class 8L licence
is issued.




(8)

A person to whom a Class 6L or 8L licence is issued must not carry
passengers while operating a motorcycle.




(9)

The no-passenger restriction under subsection (8) does not apply in
the course of the person receiving practical driver training that is
being conducted in accordance with Division 27 by a licensed driver
training instructor.




(10)

A person to whom a Class 1L, 2L or 4L licence is issued must not
operate a bus, taxi or ambulance in which there is a passenger other
than




(a)

an examiner of drivers,




(b)

a person who is at least 19 years of age and holds a valid and
subsisting driver's licence of a class that permits the person to
operate a motor vehicle of the appropriate category with passengers,
or




(c)

a person being trained to operate a motor vehicle of the appropriate
category who holds a learner's licence that permits the person to
operate a motor vehicle of that category.


[en. B.C. Reg. 257/98, App. 1, s. 6; am. B.C. Regs. 354/2003, Sch.,
ss. 4 and 5; 64/2021, s. 4.]






Hours-of-day restrictions for Class 6L, 7L and 8L licences




30.07

(1)


Subject to the exception set out in subsection (2), a person to whom a
Class 6L or 8L licence is issued must not operate a motorcycle between
sunset and sunrise each day.




(2)

The daylight-hours restriction under subsection (1) does not apply in
the course of the person receiving practical driver training that is
being conducted in accordance with Division 27 by a licensed driver
training instructor.




(3)

A person to whom a Class 7L licence is issued must not operate,
between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. each day, a motor
vehicle of a category designated in section 30.01 (2) for that class
of driver's licence.


[en. B.C. Reg. 257/98, App. 1, s. 6; am. B.C. Reg. 354/2003, Sch., s.
4.]






Accompanying adult conditions and passenger restrictions for Class 7
licence




30.071

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), a person to whom a Class 7 licence is
issued on or after October 6, 2003 must not carry more than one
passenger while operating a motor vehicle of a category designated in
section 30.01 (2) for that class of driver's licence unless the person
is accompanied by another person who




(a)

is at least 25 years of age or is a licensed driver training
instructor engaged in providing practical driver training to the
person in accordance with Division 27,




(b)

holds a valid and subsisting driver's licence, other than a learner's
licence or a Class 7 licence, of a class that permits the person to
operate a motor vehicle of that category, and




(c)

occupies




(i)

the seat beside the operator, or




(ii)

the seat or area immediately behind and to the right of the operator,
in the case of a motor vehicle of the category designated for the
class of licence issued in which there is no seat beside the operator.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply to a passenger who is an immediate
family member of the person.


[en. B.C. Reg. 354/2003, Sch., s. 6; am. B.C. Reg. 64/2021, s. 4.]






Repealed




30.072


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 235/2021, Sch. 1, s. 4.]






Speed and area restrictions for Class 6L and 8L licences




30.08

(1)


Subject to the exceptions set out in subsection (3), a person to whom
a Class 6L or 8L licence is issued must not operate a motorcycle at a
speed exceeding 60 km/hr until the person has successfully completed a
road skills test required by the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia for that purpose.




(2)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 354/2003, Sch., s. 7 (b).]




(3)

The speed restriction under subsection (1) does not apply in the
course of the person receiving practical driver training that is being
conducted in accordance with Division 27 by a licensed driver training
instructor.


[en. B.C. Reg. 257/98, App. 1, s. 6; am. B.C. Regs. 270/2000, s. 3;
354/2003, Sch., ss. 4 and 7; 64/2021, s. 2.]






Minimum waiting periods imposed on learner's licences




30.09

(1)


The period a Class 6L licence holder must wait to be eligible for a
road test under section 25 (3) (a) of the Act in respect of a Class 6
licence is 30 days from the date the Class 6L licence is issued.




(2)

The waiting period set out in subsection (1) does not apply if the
person has held a Class 6 licence or a licence, similar to a Class 6
or 8 licence, issued by another jurisdiction, as determined by the
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia.




(3)

The period a Class 7L licence holder must wait to be eligible for a
road test under section 25 (3) (a) of the Act in respect of a Class 7
licence is




(a)

until the Class 7L licence holder has accumulated 6 months of learner
driving experience, if the Class 7L licence is issued before October
6, 2003, or




(b)

until the Class 7L licence holder has accumulated one year of learner
driving experience, if the Class 7L licence is issued on or after
October 6, 2003.




(4)

The waiting period referred to in subsection (3) does not apply if the
person has held a Class 7 licence or a licence, similar to a Class 5
or 7 licence, issued by another jurisdiction, as determined by the
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia.




(5)

The period a Class 8L licence holder must wait to be eligible for a
road test under section 25 (3) (a) of the Act in respect of a Class 8
licence is




(a)

until the Class 8L licence holder has accumulated 6 months of learner
driving experience, if the Class 8L licence is issued before October
6, 2003, or




(b)

until the Class 8L licence holder has accumulated one year of learner
driving experience, if the Class 8L licence is issued on or after
October 6, 2003.




(6)

The waiting period set out in subsection (5) does not apply if the
person has held a Class 8 licence or a licence, similar to a Class 6
or 8 licence, issued by another jurisdiction, as determined by the
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia.


[en. B.C. Reg. 270/2000, s. 4; am. B.C. Regs. 354/2003, Sch., s. 8;
338/2012, Sch. 2, s. 5; 64/2021, s. 2.]






New driver sign condition for Class 7L, 8L, 7 and 8 licences




30.10

(1)


In this section,
"new driver sign"
means a sign, issued by the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia
for the purposes of this section, to indicate that a motor vehicle is
being driven by a person who is learning to drive or by a novice
driver.




(2)

Subject to the exception set out in subsection (3), a person to whom a
Class 7L or 8L licence is issued must not operate a motor vehicle of a
category designated in section 30.01 (2) for that class of driver's
licence unless a new driver sign depicting the letter "L" is clearly
visible and prominently displayed from the rear of the motor vehicle
or trailer, as the case may be.




(3)

The new driver sign condition under subsection (2) does not apply in
the course of the person receiving practical driver training conducted
in accordance with Division 27 by a licensed driver training
instructor, unless the practical driver training is being conducted in
a private vehicle under section 27.09 (7).




(4)

Subject to the exception set out in subsection (5), a person to whom a
Class 7 or 8 licence is issued must not operate a motor vehicle of a
category designated in section 30.01 (2) for that class of driver's
licence unless a new driver sign depicting the letter "N" is clearly
visible and prominently displayed from the rear of the motor vehicle
or trailer, as the case may be.




(5)

The new driver sign condition under subsection (4) does not a apply in
the course of the person receiving practical driver training conducted
in accordance with Division 27 by a licensed driver training
instructor, unless the practical driver training is being conducted in
a private vehicle under section 27.09 (7).


[en. B.C. Reg. 257/98, App. 1, s. 6; am. B.C. Reg. 354/2003, Sch., s.
4.]






No-alcohol, no-drug condition for Class 7L, 8L, 7 or 8 licences




30.11

(1)


A person to whom a Class 7L, 8L, 7 or 8 licence is issued must not
operate a motor vehicle while having any of the following in the
person's body:




(a)

alcohol;




(b)

cocaine;




(c)

tetrahydrocannabinol (THC).




(2)

For the purposes of section 90.3 of the Act, the following devices are
approved screening devices:




(a)

the Alcolmeter S-L2;




(b)

the Alcotest® 7410 GLC;




(c)

the Alcotest® 7410 PA3;




(c.1)

the Alco-Sensor FST;




(d)

the Alco-Sensor IV D WF;




(e)

the Alco-Sensor IV PWF;




(f)

the Alco-Sûr;




(g)

the Intoxilyzer 400D.




(3)

For the purposes of section 90.3 of the Act,




(a)

the following equipment, when used together, is approved drug
screening equipment in relation to cocaine and tetrahydrocannabinol
(THC):




(i)

the Dräger DrugTest® 5000;




(ii)

the Dräger DrugTest® 5000 STK-CA, and




(b)

the following equipment, when used together, is approved drug
screening equipment in relation to tetrahydrocannabinol (THC):




(i)

the SoToxa™, also known as the Abbott SoToxa™ Mobile Test System;




(ii)

the Abbott SoToxa™ Test Cartridge;




(iii)

the Abbott SoToxa™ Oral Fluid Collection Device.




(4)

For the purposes of sections 25 (10.101) and 90.3 (2.1) (b) of the
Act, the following drugs are prescribed:




(a)

cocaine;




(b)

tetrahydrocannabinol (THC).


[en. B.C. Reg. 257/98, App. 1, s. 6; am. B.C. Regs. 43/2015; 205/2018,
App. 1; 180/2020.]






Passenger and motor vehicle restrictions for Class 6 and 8 licences




30.12

(1)


A Class 6 or 8 licence is subject to the following licence
restrictions:




(a)

if the person to whom the licence is issued qualified for the licence
using a motorcycle with an engine displacement of 200 cc or less,
other than a motor scooter, the person must not carry passengers while
operating a motorcycle;




(b)

if the person qualified for the licence using a motor scooter, the
person must not operate any other kind of motorcycle except a limited
speed motorcycle;




(c)

if the person qualified for the licence using a limited speed
motorcycle, the person must not operate any other kind of motorcycle.




(2)

Despite subsection (1) the person holding a licence on which a
restriction under that subsection is imposed may apply to have the
restriction removed from the person's licence by undertaking and
successfully completing the appropriate fitness and ability tests
under section 25 (3) of the Act for the other kinds of motorcycles
that the person wishes to operate.


[en. B.C. Reg. 257/98, App. 1, s. 6; am. B.C. Regs. 270/2000, s. 5;
64/2021, s. 3.]






Repealed




30.13


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 107/2016, s. 4.]






Cancellation of driver's licence




30.14


For the purposes of section 26.1 (2.2) (b) of the Act, the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia may cancel a driver's licence if




(a)

a driver's licence is issued to a person on the basis of a mandatory
entry-level training course declaration of completion, and




(b)

the declaration of completion is cancelled in accordance with
section 27.06 (4.2) of this regulation and not reissued in
accordance with section 27.06 (4.3) of this regulation.

[en. B.C. Reg. 100/2021, Sch. 2, s. 3.]





Resident of British Columbia




30.15


For the purposes of paragraph (b) of the definition of "resident of
British Columbia" in section 24.1 (1) of the Act, the following
classes of persons are prescribed:




(a)

persons who ceased to be ordinarily resident in British Columbia
within the immediately preceding 90 days;




(b)

persons in British Columbia who are required under a contract to be in
British Columbia for a period of more than 6 months for the purposes
of temporary work;




(c)

persons in British Columbia who




(i)

are not Canadian citizens or permanent residents of Canada as defined
in the

Immigration and Refugee Protection Act

(Canada), and




(ii)

are foreign representatives, or the spouses or dependents of foreign
representatives, who have been granted privileges, immunities or
benefits under the

Foreign Missions and International Organizations Act

(Canada) that have not been withdrawn.

[en. B.C. Reg. 304/2021, Sch.]





Application for licence — address




30.16

(1)


In this section,
"service provider"
means any of the following that provides housing outreach services or
outreach services for persons experiencing homelessness within the
community:




(a)

an organization described in section 149 (1) (l) of the

Income Tax Act

(Canada);




(b)

a registered charity as defined in section 248 (1) of the

Income Tax Act

(Canada);




(c)

a municipality or regional district;




(d)

an Indigenous nation;




(e)

a ministry of the government of British Columbia.




(2)

For the purposes of section 25 (1.1) (a) of the Act an applicant for a
driver's licence and for a driver's certificate may provide the
address of a service provider if the applicant




(a)

is a resident of British Columbia,




(b)

has no place of residence and has been living solely in public spaces
or shelters for a period of at least 30 consecutive days immediately
preceding the date of the application,




(c)

is eligible for




(i)

income assistance or hardship assistance under the

Employment and Assistance Act

, or




(ii)

disability assistance or hardship assistance under the


Employment and Assistance for Persons with Disabilities Act


, and




(d)

provides a written statement, in the form required by the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia, from an authorized representative of
the service provider affirming that




(i)

the applicant is known to the representative,




(ii)

to the best of the representative's knowledge, the applicant meets the
requirements of paragraphs (a) to (c),




(iii)

the representative consents to the use of the address of the service
provider by the applicant for the purposes of section 25 (1.1) (a) of
the Act, and




(iv)

the representative undertakes to accept and securely store any mail
received for the applicant at the address and to distribute the mail
to the applicant.

[en. B.C. Reg. 304/2021, Sch.]



Division 30A — Drivers' Licences — Foreign Representatives





Fee exemption




30A.01


A foreign representative or the spouse or dependent of a foreign
representative is exempt from the fees for a driver's licence or
driver's test under item 4 (a) and (b) of the Schedule to
the Motor Vehicle Fees Regulation except for fees payable for a missed
test.

[en. B.C. Reg. 381/2007, s. (b).]





Driver's licence testing exemptions




30A.02

(1)


A foreign representative or spouse of a foreign representative who
applies for a Class 5 licence, and who holds a licence issued by
another jurisdiction that the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia considers is similar to a Class 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 7 licence,
is exempt from




(a)

the requirement to submit to tests required under section 25 (3) (a)
of the Act
[application for licence]
, and




(b)

the requirement to provide proof of driving experience under section
30.05 (3) (d) of this regulation

[minimum driving experience, skills and other qualifications]

.




(2)

A dependent of a foreign representative who applies for a Class 5
licence and who




(a)

holds a licence issued by another jurisdiction that the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia considers is similar to a Class 1, 2,
3, 4, 5 or 7 licence, and




(b)

has at least 2 years of non-learner driving experience,


is exempt from the requirement to submit to tests required under
section 25 (3) (a) of the Act
[application for licence]
.




(3)

A dependent of a foreign representative who applies for a Class 7
licence and who




(a)

holds a licence issued by another jurisdiction that the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia considers is similar to a Class 1, 2,
3, 4, 5 or 7 licence, and




(b)

has fewer than 2 years of non-learner driving experience


is exempt from the requirement to submit to tests required under
section 25 (3) (a) of the Act
[application for licence]
.


[en. B.C. Reg. 381/2007, s. (b); am. B.C. Reg. 338/2012, Sch. 2, s.
6.]




Division 30B — Drivers' Licences — Canadian Citizenship





Definitions




30B.01


In this Division,
"outstanding charge"
means a charge




(a)

in respect of which an Information has been sworn,




(b)

in respect of an offence that is an indictable offence or an offence
that is being proceeded with by way of indictment, and




(c)

that has not been disposed of by a court.

[en. B.C. Reg. 147/2009, Sch. 1.]





Additional requirements for driver's licence




30B.02


For the purposes of section 25 (1.2) (d) of the Act, an applicant for
a driver's licence that indicates the driver is a Canadian citizen is
not eligible for the licence if




(a)

the applicant is the subject of an outstanding charge,




(b)

the applicant is subject to conditions imposed by a court or parole
board that forbid the applicant to leave Canada, or




(c)

the applicant holds a BC identification card issued under section 3
(1) of the Identification Card Regulation that indicates the person is
a Canadian citizen.


[en. B.C. Reg. 147/2009, Sch. 1; am. B.C. Reg. 4/2013, App. 3, s. 1.]






Continuing requirements for driver's licence and cancellation




30B.03

(1)


For the purposes of section 25 (14.1) (b) of the Act, a person who
holds a driver's licence that indicates the driver is a Canadian
citizen must continue to meet the requirements for eligibility for the
licence that are set out in section 30B.02.




(2)

If a person who holds a driver's licence that indicates the driver is
a Canadian citizen ceases to be a Canadian citizen, the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia may cancel the licence.

[en. B.C. Reg. 147/2009, Sch. 1.]



Division 30C — Drivers' Licences — Exemption for

Non-Resident Temporary Workers





Seasonal agricultural workers




30C.01

(1)


In this section,

"Seasonal Agricultural Worker Program"

means the program administered by the government of Canada and known
as the "Seasonal Agricultural Worker Program".




(2)

The Seasonal Agricultural Worker Program is specified for the purposes
of section 34 (1.1) (d) (ii) of the Act.




(3)

For the purposes of section 34 (1.1) (d) (iii) of the Act, a person
who meets all of the following requirements is in a prescribed class
of persons:




(a)

the person is not a Canadian citizen;




(b)

the person is not a permanent resident, as defined in the
Immigration and Refugee Protection Act
(Canada);




(c)

the person is working in British Columbia in the agricultural sector.

[en. B.C. Reg. 246/2010, s. (b).]



Division 30D — Drivers' Licences — Beneficiary under the

Medicare Protection Act






Prescribed categories




30D.01


For the purposes of section 25 (1.3) of the Act, an applicant for a
driver's licence that indicates the applicant is a beneficiary under
the

Medicare Protection Act

is not eligible for the licence if




(a)

the applicant is a deemed resident within the meaning of section 7.4
(1) of the Medical and Health Care Services Regulation, or




(b)

section 7 (2) of the

Medicare Protection Act

applies to the applicant, unless the Medical Services Commission, on
or after February 10, 2013, renewed the applicant's enrollment as a
beneficiary under section 7.2 of the

Medicare Protection Act

.

[en. B.C. Reg. 4/2013, App. 3, s. 2.]





Additional requirements for driver's licence




30D.02


For the purposes of section 25 (1.3) (d) of the Act, an applicant for
a driver's licence that indicates the applicant is a beneficiary under
the

Medicare Protection Act

must surrender all of the following that are held by the applicant at
the time of application:




(a)

a photo BC services card within the meaning of the Identification Card
Regulation;




(b)

a non-photo BC services card within the meaning of the Identification
Card Regulation.

[en. B.C. Reg. 4/2013, App. 3, s. 2.]



Division 30E — Drivers' Licences — Medical Condition Statement for
Compliance with International Agreement





Definition




30E.01


In this Division,

"North American Free Trade Agreement"

has the same meaning as "Agreement" in the
North American Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act
(Canada).

[en. B.C. Reg. 239/2013.]





Prescribed international agreement




30E.02


The North American Free Trade Agreement is prescribed for the purposes
of this Division.

[en. B.C. Reg. 239/2013.]





Statement indicating certain medical conditions




30E.03

(1)


The superintendent may, for the purposes of complying with the
agreement prescribed in section 30E.02, instruct the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia to inscribe the statement "W" on the
face of a driver's licence if the superintendent is satisfied that




(a)

the licence is a class 1, 2, 3 or 4 licence, and




(b)

the applicant for or holder of the licence




(i)

has epilepsy,




(ii)

has diabetes mellitus that requires insulin, or




(iii)

has a hearing impairment such that the average of the quietest sound
at 500, 1 000 and 2 000 hertz that the person can hear in the person's
best ear, with or without a hearing aid, is greater than 40 decibels.




(2)

The superintendent may instruct the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia to remove the statement "W" from a driver's licence if the
superintendent is satisfied that the holder of the licence does not
have any of the conditions referred to in subsection (1) (b).




(3)

The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia must comply with an
instruction of the superintendent given under subsection (1) or (2).


[en. B.C. Reg. 239/2013; am. B.C. Reg. 64/2021, ss. 2 and 3.]




Division 30F





Repealed





30F.01-

30F.03




Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 26/58, s. 30F.03.]




Division 31 — Trailers and Mobile Homes





CSA standards




31.01


Trailers, mobile homes or recreational vehicles, and the equipment
therein, manufactured on or after October 1, 1972, shall conform in
all respects to the standards for trailers, mobile homes or
recreational vehicles from time to time made by the Canadian Standards
Association, now numbered CSA Standard-Z240 MH Series-92 and Z240 RV
Series-M86 (R1992), respectively; and labelled in accordance with such
standard.


[en. B.C. Reg. 68/71, s. 8; am. B.C. Regs. 205/72, s. 15; 333/94, s.
1.]






Exclusion




31.02


For the purpose of section 31.01, a recreational vehicle as defined in
CSA Standard Z240 RV Series-M86 (R1992) does not include a motorhome
as defined in section 1 of the Act.


[en. B.C. Reg. 224/74, s. 4; am. B.C. Reg. 333/94, s. 2.]




Division 32 — Seat Belt Assembly





Definition




32.01


In this Division,
"taxi"
means a motor vehicle having a seating capacity of not more than 10
persons which, with its driver, is operated or plies for hire by
members of the public.

[en. B.C. reg. 426/77; am. B.C. Reg. 56/89, s. 9.]





Repealed




32.02


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 166/2019, s. 4.]






Exemption — taxi driver




32.03


A taxi driver is exempt from the provisions of section 220 (6) of the
Act while transporting a passenger for hire in a taxi unless the taxi
is operated as a passenger directed vehicle under a transportation
network services authorization only.


[en. B.C. Reg. 426/77; am. B.C. Reg. 166/2019, s. 5.]






Exemption — emergency vehicle




32.04

(1)


An emergency vehicle driven by or on behalf of a peace officer in the
discharge of the peace officer's duty is exempt from the requirement
that




(a)

upper torso restraints,




(b)

a seat belt assembly in the centre front seat seating position, and




(c)

seat belt assemblies in the rear seating position,


not be removed, rendered partly or wholly inoperative or modified so
as to reduce their effectiveness.




(2)

A person who is in the custody or care of a peace officer is exempt
from section 220 (4) of the Act.




(3)

A peace officer who, in the lawful performance of the peace officer's
duty, is transporting a person in the peace officer's custody or care
is exempt from section 220 (3), (4) and (6) of the Act.




(4)

When a peace officer has reasonable and probable grounds to believe
the use of a seat belt assembly would obstruct the performance of the
peace officer's duties, the peace officer and any passenger is exempt
from section 220 (3), (4) and (6) of the Act.

[en. B.C. Reg. 66/78; am. B.C. Reg. 64/2021, s. 6.]





Exemption — sheriff escort vehicle




32.05

(1)


A sheriff escort vehicle driven by a sheriff in the discharge of the
sheriff's duty is exempt from the requirement that seat belt
assemblies in the rear seating position not be removed, rendered
partly or wholly inoperative or modified so as to reduce their
effectiveness.




(2)

A person who is in the custody or care of a sheriff is exempt from
section 220 (4) of the Act.




(3)

A sheriff who, in the lawful performance of duty, is transporting a
person in the sheriff's custody or care is exempt from section 220
(3), (4) and (6) of the Act.


[en. B.C. Reg. 370/2000; am. B.C. Reg. 64/2021, s. 3.]




Division 33 — Year-round Motor Vehicle Licence Renewal





Varied terms of licences




33.01


A licence may be issued under the Act in respect of a period of less
than 12 months where




(a)

the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia considers it necessary
to designate an earlier expiry date in order to spread the work of
licence renewal more uniformly over the year,




(b)

the corporation is satisfied that the licence is required for less
than 12 months, or




(c)

the corporation is satisfied that a person owns more than one vehicle,
and that the licences for each should have a common expiry date,


and where a licence is so issued, it shall expire accordingly.


[en. B.C. Reg. 147/79, s. 3; am. B.C. Reg. 317/96, s. 1.]




Division 34 — Personalized Number Plates





Issuance of plates




34.01

(1)


Where a person holds a valid and subsisting licence in respect of a
motor vehicle, and the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia has
received from the person




(a)

an application in the prescribed form, and




(b)

the fee prescribed in the Motor Vehicle Fees Regulation,


the corporation may, subject to this regulation and on being satisfied
as to the truth of the facts stated in the application, issue a
personalized number plate to the person, in respect of the vehicle, in
place of the current number plate.




(2)

Where a personalized number plate has been lost, stolen, damaged or
destroyed the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia may issue an
identical replacement on receipt of




(a)

an application as required by section 34.12, and




(b)

the replacement fee prescribed in the Motor Vehicle Fees Regulation.




(3)

A licensee's right to display a personalized number plate




(a)

issued before January 1, 1984, expires on the fifth anniversary of the
day the issue of it was approved, and




(b)

issued or renewed on or after January 1, 1984, expires on the date the
licence for the motor vehicle expires.


[en. B.C. Reg. 295/79, s. (c); am. B.C. Regs. 518/81, s. 9; 480/83, s.
2; 317/96, s. 1; 64/2021, s. 7.]






Remission of fees




34.02

(1)


Notwithstanding section 3.09 or 3.10, there shall be no remission of
fees in respect of a personalized number plate unless




(a)

the requested combination of letters or letters and numerals is not
accepted by the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia, or




(b)

the requested combination of letters or letters and numerals
previously approved for issue has, in the opinion of the corporation,
subsequently gained an objectionable or misleading connotation.




(2)

There shall be no remission of fees in respect of a personalized
number plate that has been cancelled or suspended.




(3)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 480/83, s. 3.]




(4)

A refund shall be rounded to the nearest dollar and an amount ending
in 50¢ shall be raised to the next highest dollar.




(5)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 480/83, s. 3.]




(6)

The fees payable in respect of personalized number plates under this
Division are in addition to any licence, registration or substitution
fee required by the Act or the

Commercial Transport Act

.


[en. B.C. Reg. 295/79, s. (c); am. B.C. Regs. 518/81, s. 10; 480/83,
s. 3; 317/96, s. 1.]






Application for plates




34.03

(1)


Application for personalized number plates shall be made to an office
designated by the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia.




(2)

Applications for personalized number plates shall be processed in
order of receipt at the central processing office of the corporation
and where more than one application for the same combination of
letters or numbers or both is received at the same time the
corporation shall determine the order in which the applications may be
approved.


[en. B.C. Reg. 295/79, s. (c); am. B.C. Reg. 317/96, s. 1.]






Restrictions on content




34.04


The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia shall not issue a
personalized number plate that would contain




(a)

characters in a combination identical to one already in use,




(b)

characters in a combination identical to a number plate in an existing
or projected series of number plates to be issued,




(c)

characters in a combination that, in the opinion of the corporation,
could create identification problems,




(d)

characters in a combination that, in the opinion of the corporation,
is unseemly, vulgar, indecent or may offend any person, or




(e)

characters that, in the opinion of the corporation, might distract the
drivers of other vehicles so as to reduce the level of their driving
care or attention.


[en. B.C. Reg. 295/79, s. (c); am. B.C. Reg. 317/96, s. 1.]






Restrictions on types of vehicles




34.05

(1)


The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia shall not issue
personalized number plates in respect of




(a)

motor vehicles licensed as farm vehicles,




(b)

antique cars that have been assigned 'vintage' number plates,




(c)

motor vehicles licensed pursuant to section 8, 9 or 10 of the Act,




(d)

motor vehicles licensed under the

Commercial Transport Act

with a gross vehicle weight exceeding 5 500 kg, or licensed under
section 2 (e) of the Motor Vehicle Fees Regulation or section 3 (b) of
the Commercial Transport Fees Regulation, or




(e)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 306/99.]




(f)

trailers.




(2)

Where a personalized number plate, after being issued, gains, in the
opinion of the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia, an
objectionable or misleading connotation, the corporation may require
the licensee to surrender it.




(3)

Where a licensee who has been required to surrender the licensee's
personalized number plate pursuant to this regulation fails to
surrender it on request of the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia, the corporation may suspend the licence and corresponding
personalized number plate.




(4)

A refund shall be rounded to the nearest dollar and an amount ending
in 50¢ shall be raised to the next highest dollar.




(5)

The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia may refund a prorated
amount of the personalized number plate fee, where, in the
corporation's opinion, circumstances warrant a prorated refund.




(6)

The fees payable in respect of personalized number plates under this
Division are in addition to any licence, registration or substitution
fee required by the Act or the

Commercial Transport Act

.


[en. B.C. Reg. 295/79, s. (c); am. B.C. Regs. 4/96; 317/96, s. 9;
306/99; 135/2007; 64/2021, s. 6.]






Plates not transferable to another licensee




34.06


Personalized number plates are not transferable to any other licensee,
nor can they be used on any other vehicle owned by the licensee except
as stated in sections 3.06 and 34.07.

[en. B.C. Reg. 295/79, s. (c).]





Plates transferable to another vehicle of licensee




34.07


Notwithstanding section 3.12 or 3.13, personalized number plates may,
on the transfer of the vehicle displaying personalized number plates,
be retained by the licensee and may be assigned to a substitute
vehicle, subject to section 3.08, so long as the holder is permitted
by this regulation to display personalized number plates on the
substitute vehicle.

[en. B.C. Reg. 295/79, s. (c).]





Priority on character combination




34.08


Where a licensee has a personalized number plate, the licensee shall,
where possible, have first priority on that combination of characters
for a further term if the licensee makes timely application for it in
the manner required by this regulation.


[en. B.C. Reg. 295/79, s. (c); am. B.C. Reg. 64/2021, s. 5.]






Surrender of plates — reservation of character combination




34.09


Where a licensee surrenders the licensee's personalized number plate
to the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia, pursuant to sections
3.05 and 3.09 (b), the corporation may, on receipt of notification
from the licensee, reserve that combination of characters for the
remainder of the term for which the fees were paid, unless a remission
has been granted pursuant to section 34.02.


[en. B.C. Reg. 295/79, s. (c); am. B.C. Regs. 480/83, s. 4; 317/96, s.
1; 64/2021, s. 6.]






Surrender of plates — no reservation of character combination




34.10


Where the licensee surrenders the licensee's personalized number
plates and does not notify the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia that the licensee wishes the licensee's approved combination
of characters reserved, the corporation may issue that combination of
characters to the first licensee making appropriate application.


[en. B.C. Reg. 295/79, s. (c); am. B.C. Regs. 317/96, s. 1; 64/2021,
ss. 5 and 6.]






Reissuance where no surrender and no reservation




34.11


Notwithstanding section 34.10, where personalized number plates are
not surrendered pursuant to section 3.04, and are not renewed within
one year from the expiry of the term for which fees were paid, the
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia may issue that combination
of characters to the first licensee making appropriate application.


[en. B.C. Reg. 295/79, s. (c); am. B.C. Regs. 480/83, s. 5; 317/96, s.
1.]






Replacement of lost or damaged plates




34.12


A person seeking a replacement for a personalized number plate that
has been lost, stolen, damaged or destroyed shall, if the person
wishes to retain the same personalized numbers, submit to the
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia




(a)

the fee specified in the regulation,




(b)

the appropriate application form and, where required by the
corporation, a declaration outlining the loss, theft or destruction or
surrender of both personalized number plates where damage has
occurred, and




(c)

an application for assignment of interim number plates or other form
of identification normally assigned to the person's vehicle type
pending receipt and assignment of the reproduced personalized number
plates together with the prescribed substitution fee.


[en. B.C. Reg. 295/79, s. (c); am. B.C. Regs. 317/96, s. 1; 64/2021,
ss. 5 and 6.]




Contents
|



Division 1-4

|



Division 5

|



Division 6

|



Division 7-9

|



Division 10-18

|



Division 19-23

|



Division 24-25

|



Division 26-28

|



Division 29

|

Division 30-34 |


Division 35-36

|



Division 37-40

|



Division 40A-42

|



Division 43

|



Division 44-47





