







B.C. Reg. 379/97

O.C. 1266/97


Deposited November 18, 1997

effective May 1, 1997





This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Public Sector Employers Act


Employment Termination Standards

[Last amended March 11, 2021 by B.C. Reg. 64/2021]




The Employment Termination Standards established by the Public Sector
Employers Council are adopted as employment termination standards for
the purposes of section 14.4 of the

Public Sector Employers Act

.






Definitions




1


In these standards:


"Act"
means the

Public Sector Employers Act

;


"employee"
has the same meaning as in section 14.1 of the Act;



"notice of termination"

means notification by a public sector employer to an employee that the
employee's contract of employment will be terminated;



"notice period"

means the length of time from the date on which notice of termination
is given to an employee until the date on which employment will
terminate;



"retiring allowance"

means a payment that, by a contract of employment, an employee may
receive on or after retirement of the employee from the employee's
employment in recognition of the employee's service, but does not
include the following:




(a)

superannuation or a pension benefit;




(b)

an amount received as a consequence of the death of the employee;




(c)

a benefit designated by the minister;


"severance"
means the severance payment made in lieu of the notice period;



"successor employer"

means a purchaser, lessee or transferee referred to in section 35 of
the

Labour Relations Code

.

[am. 2002-64-Sch. s. 1; B.C. Reg. 64/2021, s. 3.]





Limitation on notice period and severance




2

(1)


An employee must not be given a notice period or severance in the case
of




(a)

termination for cause,




(b)

expiry of a contract of employment with a definite term, or




(c)

voluntary resignation or retirement.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not prevent an employer from providing severance
under a labour adjustment policy or program approved by the minister.




(3)

A labour adjustment policy or program approved by the council before
this subsection comes into force is deemed to be a labour adjustment
policy or program approved by the minister for the purposes of
subsection (2).

[am. 2002-64-Sch. s. 2.]





Limitation on retiring allowance




2.1

(1)


An employee who receives a notice period or severance must not be
given a retiring allowance.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not prevent an employer from providing a retiring
allowance under a labour adjustment policy or program approved by the
minister.




(3)

A labour adjustment policy or program approved by the council before
this subsection comes into force is deemed to be a labour adjustment
policy or program approved by the minister for the purposes of
subsection (2).

[en. 2002-64-Sch. s. 3.]





Duties of employee during notice period




3

(1)


During the notice period, a public sector employer, in its sole
discretion, may




(a)

require the employee to continue with the employee's duties,
assignment, tasks or projects,




(b)

assign the employee to other duties, assignments, tasks or projects
with the same or a successor employer, notwithstanding that the
assignment may amount to a constructive dismissal, if




(i)

the assignment is reasonably consistent with the employee's ability
and responsibility at the time of the assignment, and




(ii)

the employee is not required to relocate unreasonably,




(c)

assign the employee to a non-successor employer with the agreement of
the employee, or




(d)

excuse the employee from performing the employee's duties.




(2)

If an employee refuses to perform duties assigned by the employer in
accordance with this section, the employee is deemed to have
voluntarily resigned and is not entitled to a continuation of the
notice period or any payment in lieu of the notice period.

[am. B.C. Reg. 64/2021, s. 3.]





Severance payment instead of notice




4

(1)


If an employer terminates employment without cause and excuses the
employee from performing the employee's duties under section 3 (1)
(d), the employer, in its sole discretion, may provide the employee
with severance.




(2)

Severance must be in the form of periodic payments unless the
employer, in its sole discretion, considers a lump sum payment to be
more appropriate.

[am. B.C. Reg. 64/2021, s. 3.]





Amount of notice and severance




5

(1)


A notice period or severance must not exceed the following:




(a)

an amount calculated according to an employment termination plan for
the employee that has been approved by the minister;




(b)

if no employment termination plan has been approved by the council,
the lesser of




(i)

an amount equal to the remaining term of the contract, or




(ii)

an amount provided under common law calculated as though the employee
were subject to an indefinite term agreement with no provision
regarding severance.




(1.1)

An employment termination plan approved by the council before this
subsection comes into force is deemed to be an employment termination
plan approved by the minister for the purposes of subsection (1).




(2)

Despite subsection (1), the maximum notice period that an employee may
be given is 18 months.




(3)

Despite subsection (1), the maximum severance that an employee may be
given is the value of salary and benefits the employee would otherwise
be entitled to for the notice period.

[am. 2002-64-Sch. s. 4.]





Executive notice and severance




5.1

(1)


In addition to the limits imposed under section 5, this section
applies in relation to employees of a public sector employer, other
than an employer referred to in paragraph (g) of the definition of
"public sector employer" in section 1 of the Act, who are appointed to
or employed in the following positions:




(a)

deputy minister;




(b)

chief executive officer or president of a public sector employer;




(c)

superintendent of a school.




(2)

The notice period or severance that may be given to an employee in a
position referred to in subsection (1) must not exceed




(a)

an amount calculated according to an employment termination plan for
the employee that has been approved by the Treasury Board, or




(b)

if no employment termination plan has been approved by the Treasury
Board, the following limits:




(i)

up to a 6 month notice period or severance, if the employee has served
or been employed in that position for fewer than 12 months;




(ii)

up to a 9 month notice period or severance, if the employee has served
or been employed in that position for 12 to 17 months;




(iii)

up to a 12 month notice period or severance, if the employee has
served or been employed in that position for 18 to 35 months;




(iv)

up to a 14 month notice period or severance, if the employee has
served or been employed in that position for 36 to 47 months;




(v)

up to a 16 month notice period or severance, if the employee has
served or been employed in that position for 48 to 59 months;




(vi)

up to an 18 month notice period or severance, if the employee has
served or been employed in that position for 60 or more months.




(3)

Treasury Board may not approve an employment termination plan under
subsection (2) (a) that would provide an employee more than a 12 month
notice period or severance for fewer than 18 months of service or
employment.




(4)

An employment termination plan approved by the council before this
subsection comes into force is deemed to be an employment termination
plan approved by the Treasury Board for the purposes of subsection
(2).

[en. 2002-64-Sch. s. 5.]





Re-employment in the public sector




6

(1)


In this section,
"re-employment"
includes entering into a contract for services with a public sector
employer either individually or through a sole proprietorship,
partnership or corporation.




(2)

An employee must notify the employer of any re-employment with a
public sector employer during the notice period or period of notice in
lieu of which severance is provided.




(3)

If an employee commences employment with a public sector employer
during the notice period or period of notice in lieu of which
severance is provided,




(a)

no severance covering this period of re-employment is payable, and




(b)

the employee must pay the government any amount that is attributable
to the period during which the employee is re-employed.




(4)

During the notice period or period in lieu of which severance is
provided, if an employee is re-employed at a lower level of
compensation, nothing in this section prevents an employer from
providing to the employee an amount equivalent to the difference
between their former compensation level and their compensation level
upon re-employment.






Term of employment contracts




7


If an employee is employed under a contract of employment for a
definite term the contract must




(a)

subject to paragraph (b), be for a term of not more than 5 years, and




(b)

if employment under the contract may be extended for more than 5
years, make the extension conditional on a renegotiation of the
contract during the term of the contract.

[en. 2002-64-Sch. s. 6.]


Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Public Sector Employers Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 384, s. 14.4.]



