




Labour Relations Code
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 244




Part 1 — Introductory Provisions





Definitions




1

(1)


In this Code:



"associate chair"

means the associate chair of that division of the board appropriate to
the context;



"bargaining agent"

means




(a)

a trade union certified by the board as an agent to bargain
collectively for an appropriate bargaining unit, or




(b)

a person, or an employers' organization accredited by the board,
authorized by an employer to bargain collectively on the employer's
behalf;


"board"
means the Labour Relations Board and if applicable includes the chair,
an associate chair, a division of the board and a panel established
under section 117;



"business day"

means a day other than Saturday, Sunday or another holiday;


"chair"
means the chair of the Labour Relations Board appointed under this
Code;



"collective agreement"

means a written agreement between an employer, or an employers'
organization authorized by the employer, and a trade union, providing
for rates of pay, hours of work or other conditions of employment,
which may include compensation to a dependent contractor for
furnishing the dependent contractor's own tools, vehicles, equipment,
machinery, material or any other thing;



"collective bargaining"

means negotiating in good faith with a view to the conclusion of a
collective agreement or its renewal or revision, or to the regulation
of relations between an employer and employees;



"council of trade unions"

includes an allied council, a trades council, a joint board or another
association of trade unions;


"day"
means a calendar day;



"dependent contractor"

means a person, whether or not employed by a contract of employment or
furnishing the person's own tools, vehicles, equipment, machinery,
material or any other thing, who performs work or services for another
person for compensation or reward on such terms and conditions that
the person is in relation to the other person in a position of
economic dependence on, and under an obligation to perform duties for,
the other person more closely resembling the relationship of an
employee than that of an independent contractor;


"dispute"
means a difference or apprehended difference, as to matters or things
affecting or relating to terms or conditions of employment or work
done or to be done, between




(a)

an employer and one or more of the employer's employees or a trade
union, or




(b)

a group of employers and one or more of the employers' employees or a
trade union;


"employee"
means a person employed by an employer, and includes a dependent
contractor, but does not include a person who, in the board's opinion,




(a)

performs the functions of a manager or superintendent, or




(b)

is employed in a confidential capacity in matters relating to labour
relations or personnel;


"employer"
means a person who employs one or more employees or uses the services
of one or more dependent contractors and includes an employers'
organization;



"employers' organization"

means an organization of employers in British Columbia that has as one
of its purposes the regulation in British Columbia of relations
between employers and employees through collective bargaining;


"lockout"
includes the closing of a place of employment, a suspension of work or
a refusal by an employer to continue to employ a number of the
employer's employees, done to compel the employees or to aid another
employer in compelling that employer's employees to agree to
conditions of employment;


"party"
means a person bound by a collective agreement or involved in a
dispute;


"person"
includes an employee, an employer, an employers' organization, a trade
union and council of trade unions, but does not include a person in
respect of whom collective bargaining is regulated by the

Canada Labour Code

;


"picket"
or
"picketing"
means attending at or near a person's place of business, operations or
employment for the purpose of persuading or attempting to persuade
anyone not to




(a)

enter that place of business, operations or employment,




(b)

deal in or handle that person's product, or




(c)

do business with that person,


and a similar act at such a place that has an equivalent purpose, but
does not include lawful consumer leafleting that does not unduly
restrict access to or egress from that place of business, operations
or employment or prevent employees from working at or from that place
of employment;



"special officer"

means a special officer appointed under section 106;


"strike"
includes a cessation of work, a refusal to work or to continue to work
by employees in combination or in concert or in accordance with a
common understanding, or a slowdown or other concerted activity on the
part of employees that is designed to or does restrict or limit
production or services, but does not include




(a)

a cessation of work permitted under section 63 (3), or




(b)

a cessation, refusal, omission or act of an employee that occurs as
the direct result of and for no other reason than picketing that is
permitted under this Code,


and
"to strike"
has a similar meaning;



"trade union"

means a local or Provincial organization or association of employees,
or a local or Provincial branch of a national or international
organization or association of employees in British Columbia, that has
as one of its purposes the regulation in British Columbia of relations
between employers and employees through collective bargaining, and
includes an association or council of trade unions, but not an
organization or association of employees that is dominated or
influenced by an employer;


"unit"
means an employee or a group of employees, and the expression

"appropriate for collective bargaining"

or

"appropriate bargaining unit"

, with reference to a unit, means a unit determined by the board to be
appropriate for collective bargaining, whether it is an employer unit,
craft unit, technical unit, plant unit or another unit, and whether or
not the employees in it are employed by one or more employers.




(2)

A person does not cease to be an employee within the meaning of this
Code by reason only of ceasing to work as a result of




(a)

a strike that is not contrary to this Code,




(b)

a dismissal that is contrary to this Code, or




(c)

a lockout.






Duties under this Code




2


The board and other persons who exercise powers and perform duties
under this Code must exercise the powers and perform the duties in a
manner that




(a)

recognizes the rights and obligations of employees, employers and
trade unions under this Code,




(b)

fosters the employment of workers in economically viable businesses,




(c)

encourages the practice and procedures of collective bargaining
between employers and trade unions as the freely chosen
representatives of employees,




(d)

encourages cooperative participation between employers and trade
unions in resolving workplace issues, adapting to changes in the
economy, developing workforce skills and developing a workforce and a
workplace that promotes productivity,




(e)

promotes conditions favourable to the orderly, constructive and
expeditious settlement of disputes,




(f)

minimizes the effects of labour disputes on persons who are not
involved in those disputes,




(g)

ensures that the public interest is protected during labour disputes,
and




(h)

encourages the use of mediation as a dispute resolution mechanism.






Continuing review of the Code




3

(1)


The minister may appoint a committee of special advisors to undertake
a continuing review of this Code and labour management relations and,
without limitation, to




(a)

provide the minister with an annual evaluation of the manner in which
the legislation is functioning and to identify problems that may have
arisen under its provisions,




(b)

make recommendations concerning the need for amendments to the
legislation, and




(c)

make recommendations on any specific matter referred to the committee
by the minister.




(2)

The minister may make regulations considered necessary or advisable
respecting the receipt and dissemination of submissions and
recommendations under subsection (1) or (3).




(3)

The minister must appoint a committee of special advisors to undertake
a review of this Code and make recommendations to the minister.




(4)

The committee appointed under subsection (3) must conduct
consultations when undertaking its review of the Code.




(5)

A committee must be appointed under subsection (3) not more than 5
years after subsection (3) comes into force and thereafter not more
than 5 years after a committee appointed under subsection (3) makes
recommendations to the minister.




Part 2 — Rights, Duties and Unfair Labour Practices





Rights of employers and employees




4

(1)


Every employee is free to be a member of a trade union and to
participate in its lawful activities.




(2)

Every employer is free to be a member of an employers' organization
and to participate in its lawful activities.






Prohibition against dismissals, etc., for exercising employee rights




5

(1)


A person must not




(a)

refuse to employ or refuse to continue to employ a person,




(b)

threaten dismissal of or otherwise threaten a person,




(c)

discriminate against or threaten to discriminate against a person with
respect to employment or a term or condition of employment or
membership in a trade union, or




(d)

intimidate or coerce or impose a pecuniary or other penalty on a
person,


because of a belief that the person may testify in a proceeding under
this Code or because the person has made or is about to make a
disclosure that may be required of the person in a proceeding under
this Code or because the person has made an application, filed a
complaint or otherwise exercised a right conferred under this Code or
because the person has participated or is about to participate in a
proceeding under this Code.




(2)

If no collective agreement respecting a unit is in force and a
complaint is filed with the board alleging that an employee in that
unit has been discharged, suspended, transferred or laid off from
employment or otherwise disciplined in contravention of this Code, the
board must forthwith inquire into the matter and, if the complaint is
not settled or withdrawn, the board must




(a)

commence a hearing on the complaint within 3 days of its filing,




(b)

promptly proceed with the hearing without interruption, except for any
necessary adjournments, and




(c)

render a decision on the complaint within 2 days of the
completion of the hearing.






Unfair labour practices




6

(1)


An employer or a person acting on behalf of an employer must not
participate in or interfere with the formation, selection or
administration of a trade union or contribute financial or other
support to it.




(2)

Despite this section, an employer may permit an employee or
representative of a trade union to confer with the employer during
working hours or to attend to the trade union's business during
working hours without deducting time so occupied in computing the time
worked for the employer and without deducting wages for that time.




(3)

An employer or a person acting on behalf of an employer must not




(a)

discharge, suspend, transfer, lay off or otherwise discipline an
employee, refuse to employ or to continue to employ a person or
discriminate against a person in regard to employment or a condition
of employment because the person




(i)

is or proposes to become or seeks to induce another person to become a
member or officer of a trade union, or




(ii)

participates in the promotion, formation or administration of a trade
union,




(b)

discharge, suspend, transfer, lay off or otherwise discipline an
employee except for proper cause when a trade union is in the process
of conducting a certification campaign for employees of that employer,




(c)

impose in a contract of employment a condition that seeks to restrain
an employee from exercising the employee's rights under this Code,




(d)

seek by intimidation, by dismissal, by threat of dismissal or by any
other kind of threat, or by the imposition of a penalty, or by a
promise, or by a wage increase, or by altering any other terms or
conditions of employment, to compel or to induce an employee to
refrain from becoming or continuing to be a member or officer or
representative of a trade union,




(e)

use or authorize or permit the use of the services of a person in
contravention of section 68, or




(f)

refuse to agree with a trade union, certified under this Code as the
bargaining agent for the employer's employees who have been engaged in
collective bargaining to conclude their first collective agreement,
that all employees in the unit, whether or not members of the trade
union, but excluding those exempted under section 17, will pay
union dues from time to time to the trade union.




(4)

Despite subsection (3), except as expressly provided, this Code must
not be interpreted to limit or otherwise affect the right of the
employer to




(a)

discharge, suspend, transfer, lay off or otherwise discipline an
employee for proper cause, or




(b)

make a change in the operation of the employer's business reasonably
necessary for the proper conduct of that business.






Limitation on activities of trade unions




7

(1)


Except with the employer's consent, a trade union or person acting on
its behalf must not attempt, at the employer's place of employment
during working hours, to persuade an employee of the employer to join
or not join a trade union.




(2)

If employees reside on their employer's property or on property to
which the employer or another person has the right to control access
or entry, the employer or other person must on the board's direction
permit a representative authorized in writing by a trade union to
enter the property to attempt to persuade the employees to join a
trade union and, if the trade union acquires bargaining rights, after
that to enter the property to conduct business of the trade union.




(3)

If directed by the board and on request by the trade union
representative, the employer must provide the representative with food
and lodging at the current price and of a similar kind and quality as
that provided to the employees.






Right to communicate




8


Nothing in this Code deprives a person of the freedom to communicate
to an employee a statement of fact or opinion reasonably held with
respect to the employer's business.






Coercion and intimidation prohibited




9


A person must not use coercion or intimidation of any kind that could
reasonably have the effect of compelling or inducing a person to
become or to refrain from becoming or to continue or cease to be a
member of a trade union.






Internal union affairs




10

(1)


Every person has a right to the application of the principles of
natural justice in respect of all disputes relating to




(a)

matters in the constitution of the trade union,




(b)

the person's membership in a trade union, or




(c)

discipline by a trade union.




(2)

A trade union must not expel, suspend or impose a penalty on a member
or refuse membership in the trade union to a person, or impose any
penalty or make any special levy on a person as a condition of
admission to membership in the trade union or council of trade unions




(a)

if in doing so the trade union acts in a discriminatory manner, or




(b)

because that member or person has refused or failed to participate in
activity prohibited by this Code.




(3)

If a trade union charges, levies or prescribes different initiation
fees, dues or assessments in respect of a person according to whether
the person applies or has applied for membership in the trade union
before or after an application for certification by the trade union to
represent the person as bargaining agent, the fees, dues or
assessments are deemed to be discriminatory for the purpose of
subsection (2) (a).






Requirement to bargain in good faith




11

(1)


A trade union or employer must not fail or refuse to bargain
collectively in good faith in British Columbia and to make every
reasonable effort to conclude a collective agreement.




(2)

If a trade union and the employer have concluded a collective
agreement outside British Columbia, it is invalid in British Columbia
until a majority of the employees in British Columbia covered by the
agreement ratify it.






Duty of fair representation




12

(1)


A trade union or council of trade unions must not act in a manner that
is arbitrary, discriminatory or in bad faith




(a)

in representing any of the employees in an appropriate bargaining
unit, or




(b)

in the referral of persons to employment


whether or not the employees or persons are members of the trade union
or a constituent union of the council of trade unions.




(2)

It is not a violation of subsection (1) for a trade union to enter
into an agreement under which




(a)

an employer is permitted to hire by name certain trade union members,




(b)

a hiring preference is provided to trade union members resident in a
particular geographic area, or




(c)

an employer is permitted to hire by name persons to be engaged to
perform supervisory duties.




(3)

An employers' organization must not act in a manner that is arbitrary,
discriminatory or in bad faith in representing any of the employers in
the group appropriate for collective bargaining.






Procedure for fair representation complaint




13

(1)


If a written complaint is made to the board that a trade union,
council of trade unions or employers' organization has contravened
section 12, the following procedure must be followed:




(a)

a panel of the board must determine whether or not it considers that
the complaint discloses a case that the contravention has apparently
occurred;




(b)

if the panel considers that the complaint discloses sufficient
evidence that the contravention has apparently occurred, it must




(i)

serve a notice of the complaint on the trade union, council of trade
unions or employers' organization against which the complaint is made
and invite a reply to the complaint from the trade union, council of
trade unions or employers' organization, and




(ii)

dismiss the complaint or refer it to the board for a hearing.




(2)

If the board is satisfied that the trade union, council of trade
unions or employers' organization contravened section 12, the board
may make an order or direction referred to in section 14 (4) (a), (b)
or (d).






Inquiry into unfair labour practice




14

(1)


If a written complaint is made to the board that any person is
committing an act prohibited by section 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 11 or 12,
the board must serve a notice of the complaint on the person against
whom it is made and on any other person affected by it.




(2)

The board may appoint an officer to inquire into the complaint and
attempt to settle the matter complained of, and the officer must
report the results of the officer's inquiry and endeavours to the
board.




(3)

If an appointment is not made under subsection (2), or the officer is
unable to settle the matter, the board may inquire into the complaint.




(4)

If, on inquiry, the board is satisfied that any person is doing, or
has done, an act prohibited by section 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 11 or 12,
it may




(a)

make an order directing the person to cease doing the act,




(b)

in the same or a subsequent order, direct any person to rectify the
act,




(c)

in the case of an employer, include a direction to reinstate and pay
an employee a sum equal to wages lost due to the employee's discharge,
suspension, transfer, layoff or other disciplinary action contrary to
section 6 (3) (a) or (b),




(d)

in the case of a trade union, include a direction to reinstate a
person to membership in the trade union and pay to that person




(i)

a sum equal to wages lost due to the person's expulsion or suspension
contrary to section 10, and




(ii)

the amount of any penalty, levy, fee, dues or assessment imposed on
that person contrary to section 10, and




(e)

in the same or a subsequent order, direct the employer not to increase
or decrease wages, or alter a term or condition of employment of the
employees affected by the order for a period not exceeding
30 days without written permission of the board, and the board
may extend this order for a further period not exceeding 30 days.




(f)

[Repealed 2019-28-5.]




(4.1)

Despite section 25 (3), the board may certify a trade union if




(a)

the employees affected by an order made under subsection (4) are
seeking trade union representation,




(b)

in making the order under subsection (4) the board is satisfied that a
person is doing or has done an act prohibited by section 5, 6, 7 or 9,
and




(c)

the board believes it is just and equitable in order to remedy the
consequences of the prohibited act.




(5)

The board may impose conditions it considers necessary or advisable on
a trade union that is certified under subsection (4.1), and if the
conditions are not substantially fulfilled to the board's satisfaction
within 12 months from the date of the certification, or in a lesser
period ordered by the board, the certification is deemed to be
cancelled.




(6)

If in the board's opinion a complaint under subsection (1) is without
merit, it may reject the complaint at any time.




(7)

On an inquiry by the board into a complaint under section 6 (3) (a) or
(b), the burden of proof that the employer did not contravene
paragraph (a) or (b) lies on the employer.






Collective agreement may provide for union membership




15

(1)


Nothing in this Code is to be construed as precluding the parties to a
collective agreement from inserting in it, or carrying out, a
provision




(a)

requiring membership in a specified trade union as a condition of
employment, or




(b)

granting preference in employment to members of a specified trade
union.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), a trade union or person acting on its behalf
must not require an employer to terminate the employment of an
employee due to the employee's expulsion or suspension from that trade
union on the ground that the employee is or was a member of another
trade union.






Assignment of fees and dues




16

(1)


An employer must honour an employee's written assignment of wages to a
trade union certified as the bargaining agent for the employer's
employees under this Code, unless the assignment is declared null and
void by the board, or is revoked by the assignor.




(2)

The assignment must be substantially in the following form:



To
[name of employer].


Until this authority is revoked by me in writing, I authorize you to
deduct from my wages and to pay to
[name of the trade union]
fees and dues in the amounts following:



(1) Initiation fees in the amount $__________;

(2) Dues of $__________ per __________;

(3) Dues of _____% of hourly, weekly or monthly wages.




(3)

Unless an assignor of wages revokes the assignment by written notice
to the employer, or the board declares an assignment to be null and
void, the employer must remit at least once each month to the trade
union certified under this Code and named in the assignment the fees
and dues deducted, with a written statement containing the names of
the employees for whom deductions were made and the amount of each
deduction.




(4)

If an assignment is revoked, the employer must give a copy of the
revocation to the assignee.




(5)

Despite subsections (1), (2) and (3), the employer has no financial
responsibility for the fees or dues of an employee, unless the
employer owes the employee sufficient unpaid wages to pay the fees and
dues assigned.






Religious objections




17

(1)


If the board is satisfied that an employee, because of the employee's
religious conviction or belief




(a)

objects to joining trade unions generally, or




(b)

objects to the paying of dues or other assessments to trade unions
generally


the board may order that the provisions of a collective agreement of
the type referred to in section 15 do not apply to the employee
and that the employee is not required to join a trade union, to be or
continue to be a member of a trade union, or to pay any dues, fees or
assessments to the trade union, if amounts equal to any initiation
fees, dues or other assessments are paid by the employee to or are
remitted by the employer to a charitable organization registered as a
charitable organization in Canada under Part I of the

Income Tax Act

(Canada) that may be designated by the board.




(2)

Despite any other provision of this Code, a person exempted under
subsection (1) is not entitled to participate in a vote conducted by a
trade union or in a vote held for the purposes of this Code.




Part 3 — Acquisition and Termination of Bargaining Rights



Division 1 — Acquisition of Bargaining Rights





Acquisition of bargaining rights




18

(1)


If a collective agreement is not in force and a trade union is not
certified as bargaining agent for a unit appropriate for collective
bargaining, a trade union claiming to have as members in good standing
not less than 45% of the employees in that unit may at any time,
subject to the regulations, apply to the board to be certified for the
unit.




(2)

If a collective agreement is not in force and a trade union is
certified as bargaining agent for a unit appropriate for collective
bargaining, a trade union claiming to have as members in good standing
a majority of employees in a unit appropriate for collective
bargaining may, subject to the regulations, apply to the board to be
certified for the unit if either




(a)

6 months have elapsed since the date of certification of a trade union
for the unit, or




(b)

the board has consented to an application before the expiry of the
6 months.




(3)

Unless the board consents, a trade union is not permitted to make an
application under subsection (2) during a strike or lockout.




(4)

Despite this section and section 19




(a)

a trade union that is a party to a collective agreement, but is not
certified for the employees covered by it, may apply to be certified
at any time, and




(b)

a council of trade unions comprised of trade unions that are parties
to collective agreements may apply to be certified at any time in
place of those trade unions.






Change in union representation




19

(1)


Except in the case of construction,




(a)

if a collective agreement is in force for a term of 3 years or less, a
trade union claiming to have as members in good standing a majority of
employees in a unit appropriate for collective bargaining may apply to
the board to be certified for the unit during the seventh and eighth
months of the last year of the collective agreement, and




(b)

if a collective agreement is in force for a term of more than 3 years,
a trade union claiming to have as members in good standing a majority
of employees in a unit appropriate for collective bargaining may apply
to the board to be certified for the unit during the seventh and
eighth months of the third year of the agreement and thereafter in the
seventh and eighth months in each year of the collective agreement or
any continuation.




(2)

In the case of construction, a trade union claiming to have as members
in good standing a majority of employees in a unit appropriate for
collective bargaining may apply to the board to be certified for the
unit in July and August of each year of the collective agreement or
any continuation.




(2.1)

Despite subsections (1) and (2), an application for certification may
not be made within 22 months of a previous application under those
subsections if the previous application resulted in a decision by the
board on the merits of the application.




(3)

Unless the board consents, a trade union is not permitted to make an
application under this section during a strike or lockout.






Joint application




20


Two or more trade unions claiming to have together as members in good
standing a majority of employees in a unit appropriate for collective
bargaining may join in an application under this Part, and the
provisions of this Code relating to an application by one trade union,
and all matters or things arising from it, apply to the application
and those trade unions as if one trade union were applying.






Craft unions




21

(1)


If one or more employees belong to a craft or group exercising
technical or professional skills that distinguish it from the
employees as a whole, and they are members of one trade union
pertaining to the craft or skills, the trade union may, subject to
sections 18, 19, 20, 23, 24, 25 and 26, apply to the board to be
certified as the bargaining agent for the group if it is otherwise an
appropriate bargaining unit.




(2)

A trade union claiming to have as members in good standing a majority
of the employees in a unit for which a craft or professional trade
union is the bargaining agent under this section may apply to the
board to have the unit included in another unit, and sections 18, 19,
20, 23, 24, 25 and 26 apply.




(3)

If an application is not made under subsection (2), the employees in
the unit for which a craft or professional trade union is the
bargaining agent under this section must be excluded from another unit
for the purpose of collective bargaining and must not be taken into
account as members of another unit for purposes of this Code.






Process relating to application




22

(1)


The board must, in respect of an application for certification under
this Part,




(a)

make or cause to be made the examination of records and other
inquiries, including the holding of hearings it considers necessary to
determine the merits of the application for certification, and




(b)

specify the nature of the evidence the applicant must furnish in
support of the application and the manner of application.




(2)

In deciding whether a person is a member in good standing of a trade
union, the board




(a)

must decide the question on the basis of membership requirements
prescribed in the regulations, and




(b)

may decide the question without regard to the constitution and bylaws
of the trade union.






Determination of appropriate unit




22.1


If a trade union applies for certification as the bargaining agent for
a unit, the board




(a)

must determine if the unit is appropriate for collective bargaining,
and




(b)

may, before certification, include additional employees in or exclude
employees from the unit.






Certification




23


If the board is satisfied that




(a)

on the date the board receives an application for certification under
this Part at least 55% of the employees in the unit are members in
good standing of the trade union, and




(b)

the unit is appropriate for collective bargaining,


the board must certify the trade union as the bargaining agent for the
employees in the unit.






Representation vote ordered by board




24

(0.1)


For the purpose of determining whether the employees in an appropriate
bargaining unit wish to have a particular trade union represent them
as their bargaining agent, the board may order that a representation
vote be taken, in accordance with the regulations, among the employees
in the unit.




(1)

If the board receives an application for certification under this Part
and the board is satisfied that on the date the board receives the
application at least 45% but less than 55% of the employees in the
unit are members in good standing of the trade union, the board must
order that a representation vote be taken among the employees in that
unit.




(2)

A representation vote under subsection (1) must be conducted within 5
business days from the date the board receives the application for
certification or, if the vote is to be conducted by mail, within a
longer period the board orders.




(2.1)

A representation vote may be conducted by mail only if




(a)

the trade union and the employer agree, or




(b)

the board is satisfied exceptional circumstances exist requiring the
vote to be conducted by mail.




(2.2)

An order under subsection (2) for a longer period in which the
representation vote is to be conducted by mail must provide for the
vote to be conducted as expeditiously as possible in the
circumstances.




(3)

The board may direct that another representation vote be conducted if
less than 55% of the employees in the unit cast ballots.






Outcome of representation vote




25

(1)


When a representation vote is taken, a majority must be determined as
the majority of the employees in the unit who cast ballots.




(2)

If after a representation vote is taken, the board is satisfied that




(a)

the majority of votes favour representation by the trade union, and




(b)

the unit is appropriate for collective bargaining,


the board must certify the trade union as the bargaining agent for the
unit.




(3)

If after a representation vote is taken, the board is




(a)

satisfied that the majority of votes are not in favour of the trade
union representing the unit as its bargaining agent, or




(b)

not satisfied that the unit is appropriate for collective bargaining,


the trade union may not be certified as bargaining agent for the unit.






Request for representation vote




26

(1)


On an application for certification under this Part, a trade union may
request that a representation vote be taken before the board's
determination of the appropriate bargaining unit.




(2)

If a request is made under subsection (1),




(a)

the board may determine the group of persons who may vote, and




(b)

if it appears to the board on examining the records of the trade union
and of the employer that on the date the board receives the
application for certification at least 45% of the employees in the
unit are members in good standing of the trade union, the board may
order that a representation vote be taken, in accordance with the
regulations, among the employees in the unit.




(3)

The board may order that the ballot box containing the ballots from a
representation vote under this section be sealed and the ballots not
be counted until the parties have been given full opportunity to
present evidence and make submissions.




(4)

After a representation vote under this section, the board must
determine the unit of employees appropriate for collective bargaining,
and if it is satisfied that on the date the board receives the
application for certification at least 45% of the employees in the
unit are members in good standing of the trade union, the
representation vote has the same effect as a representation vote under
sections 24 and 25.






Effect of certification




27

(1)


If a trade union is certified as the bargaining agent for an
appropriate bargaining unit,




(a)

it has exclusive authority to bargain collectively for the unit and to
bind it by a collective agreement until the certification is
cancelled,




(b)

if another trade union has been certified as the bargaining agent for
the unit, the certification of that other trade union is cancelled for
the unit, and




(c)

if a collective agreement binding on the unit is in force at the date
of certification, the agreement remains in force.




(2)

Despite subsection (1) (c) and except if the trade union party to the
collective agreement obtains the certification, the rights and
obligations that were conferred or imposed by the collective agreement
on the trade union party to the collective agreement cease insofar as
that trade union is concerned, and are conferred or imposed on the
trade union certified as the bargaining agent.






Order for expiry of collective agreement




27.1

(1)


Despite section 27 (1) (c), if, upon application under section 19, a
trade union is certified as the bargaining agent for an appropriate
bargaining unit and there are 2 years or more remaining in the term of
the collective agreement, the trade union may apply to the board for
an order declaring that the collective agreement expires.




(2)

If an application is made under subsection (1), the board may




(a)

make an order declaring that the collective agreement expires 90 days
after the date of the order, or




(b)

make other orders or determinations that the board considers
appropriate.






Dependent contractors




28

(1)


If an application for certification is made for a unit consisting of,
or including, dependent contractors, and the application meets the
requirements of section 23 or sections 24 and 25, as applicable, the
board must




(a)

if there is no other certified unit of employees of the same employer,
determine whether the unit applied for is appropriate for collective
bargaining and, if so, certify that unit, or




(b)

if there is a certified unit of employees of the same employer,
determine whether inclusion of the dependent contractors in the
existing unit would be more appropriate for collective bargaining and,
if so, require that an application be made to vary the certification.




(2)

If the board has determined under subsection (1) (b) that a variance
of the existing bargaining unit would be more appropriate for
collective bargaining and an application for variance is made, the
board must




(a)

determine what rights, privileges and duties have been acquired or are
retained, and for this purpose the board may make inquiries or direct
that a representation vote be taken as it considers necessary or
advisable,




(b)

ensure that reasonable procedures have been developed to integrate
dependent contractors and employees into a single bargaining unit,




(c)

modify or restrict the operation or effect of a collective agreement
in order to determine the seniority rights under it of employees or
dependent contractors, and




(d)

give directions that the board considers necessary or advisable as to
the interpretation and application of a collective agreement affecting
the employees and dependent contractors in a unit determined under
this section to be appropriate for collective bargaining.






Unit partly supervisory




29


If a trade union applies for certification as the bargaining agent for
a unit consisting of




(a)

employees who supervise other employees, and




(b)

any of the other employees,


the board may certify the trade union for the unit, for a unit
consisting only of employees who supervise or for a unit composed of
some or all of the other employees.






Repeated applications for certification




30


If the trade union is not certified as the bargaining agent under
section 23 or 25, or a cancellation of certification is refused under
section 33 (4) (b), the board may designate the length of
time, not less than 90 days, that must elapse before a new
application by the same applicant may be considered.






Prohibited employee associations




31


An organization or association of employees




(a)

the formation, administration, management or policy of which is, in
the board's opinion, dominated or influenced by an employer or a
person acting on the employer's behalf, or




(b)

that discriminates against a person contrary to the

Human Rights Code

,


must not be certified for the employees, and an agreement entered into
between that organization or association of employees and the employer
is deemed not to be a collective agreement.






No change during certification




32

(1)


If an application for certification is pending, a trade union or
person affected by the application must not declare or engage in a
strike, an employer must not declare a lockout, and an employer must
not increase or decrease rates of pay or alter a term or condition of
employment of the employees affected by the application, without the
board's written permission.




(2)

This section must not be construed as affecting the right of an
employer to suspend, transfer, lay off, discharge or otherwise
discipline an employee for proper cause.




Division 2 — Revocation of Bargaining Rights





Revocation of bargaining rights




33

(1)


If at any time after a trade union has been certified for a unit the
board is satisfied, after the investigation it considers necessary or
advisable, that the trade union has ceased to be a trade union, or
that the employer has ceased to be the employer of the employees in
the unit, it may cancel the certification.




(2)

If a trade union is certified as the bargaining agent for a unit and
not less than 45% of the employees in the unit sign an
application for cancellation of the certification, the board must
order that a representation vote be conducted within 5 business days
of the date of the application or, if the vote is to be conducted by
mail, within a longer period the board orders.




(2.1)

The representation vote may be conducted by mail only if




(a)

the individual identified in the application referred to in subsection
(2) as the authorized representative of the employees who signed that
application, the trade union and the employer agree, or




(b)

the board is satisfied exceptional circumstances exist requiring the
vote to be conducted by mail.




(2.2)

An order under subsection (2) for a longer period in which the
representation vote is to be conducted by mail must provide for the
vote to be conducted as expeditiously as possible in the
circumstances.




(3)

An application referred to in subsection (2) may not be made




(a)

during the 12 months immediately following the certification of the
trade union as the bargaining agent for the unit,




(b)

during the 12 months immediately following a refusal under subsection
(6) to cancel the certification of that trade union, or




(c)

during a period designated by the board under section 30 following a
refusal under subsection (4) (b) of this section to cancel
the certification of that trade union.




(4)

After a representation vote ordered under subsection (2) is held the
board must,




(a)

if the majority of the votes included in the count are against having
the trade union represent the unit as the bargaining agent, cancel the
certification of the trade union as the bargaining agent for that
unit, or




(b)

if the majority of votes included in the count favour having the trade
union represent the unit as bargaining agent, refuse the application.




(5)

The board may direct that another representation vote be taken if




(a)

a representation vote was taken under subsection (2), and




(b)

less than 55% of eligible employees cast ballots.




(6)

If an application is made under subsection (2), the board may, despite
subsections (2) and (4), cancel or refuse to cancel the certification
of a trade union as bargaining agent for a unit without a
representation vote being held, or without regard to the result of a
representation vote, in any case where




(a)

any employees in the unit are affected by an order under
section 14, or




(b)

the board considers that because of improper interference by any
person a representation vote is unlikely to disclose the true wishes
of the employees.




(7)

Despite subsection (10), if the certification of a trade union as the
bargaining agent for a unit is cancelled under subsection (6), that
trade union must not, during the 10 months immediately following the
cancellation, apply for certification as the bargaining agent for
employees in the unit.




(8)

Subject to subsection (9), if the certification of a trade union as
the bargaining agent is cancelled under any provision of this Code, a
collective agreement between the trade union and the employer of the
employees in the unit for which the certification is cancelled is void
with respect to that unit.




(9)

Nothing in subsection (8) affects the operation of section 27 (1) (c)
and (2).




(10)

If the certification of a trade union as the bargaining agent for a
unit is cancelled under any provision of this Code, no other trade
union may apply for certification as bargaining agent for the
employees within that unit until a period of 10 months or a
shorter period specified by the board has elapsed.




(11)

On receipt of an application for cancellation of certification the
board may cancel the certification of a bargaining agent for a
bargaining unit if it is satisfied that the bargaining agent has
abandoned its bargaining rights in respect of the employees in the
bargaining unit.






Revocation of voluntarily recognized bargaining rights




34


Section 33 applies to the revocation of bargaining rights if a trade
union is a party to a collective agreement but is not certified for
the employees covered by the collective agreement.




Division 3 — Successor Rights and Obligations





Successor rights and obligations




35

(0.1)


In this section:



"contract for services"

means a contract for any of the following services:




(a)

building cleaning services;




(b)

security services;




(c)

bus transportation services;




(d)

food services;




(e)

non-clinical services provided in the health sector;




(f)

services prescribed under section 159 (2) (f);



"non-clinical services"

means services, other than medical, diagnostic or therapeutic
services, provided by a person who is, under the

Health Professions Act

, a registrant in respect of a designated health profession to a
person who is currently admitted to a bed in an inpatient unit in an
acute care hospital.




(1)

If a business or a part of it is sold, leased, transferred or
otherwise disposed of, the purchaser, lessee or transferee is bound by
all proceedings under this Code before the date of the disposition and
the proceedings must continue as if no change had occurred.




(2)

If a collective agreement is in force, it continues to bind the
purchaser, lessee or transferee to the same extent as if it had been
signed by the purchaser, lessee or transferee, as the case may be.




(2.1)

[Not enacted.]




(2.2)

If a contract for services is retendered and substantially similar
services continue to be performed, in whole or in part, under the
direction of another contractor,




(a)

the contractor is bound by all proceedings under this Code before the
date of the contract for services entered into by the contractor and
the proceedings must continue as if no change had occurred, and




(b)

any collective agreement in force continues to bind the contractor to
the same extent as if it had been signed by the contractor.




(3)

If a question arises under this section, the board, on application by
any person, must determine what rights, privileges and duties have
been acquired or are retained.




(4)

For the purposes of this section, the board may make inquiries or
direct that representation votes be taken as it considers necessary or
advisable.




(5)

The board, having made an inquiry or directed a vote under this
section, may




(a)

determine whether the employees constitute one or more units
appropriate for collective bargaining,




(b)

determine which trade union is to be the bargaining agent for the
employees in each unit,




(c)

amend, to the extent it considers necessary or advisable, a
certificate issued to a trade union or the description of a unit
contained in a collective agreement,




(d)

modify or restrict the operation or effect of a provision of a
collective agreement in order to define the seniority rights under it
of employees affected by the sale, lease, transfer or other
disposition, and




(e)

give directions the board considers necessary or advisable as to the
interpretation and application of a collective agreement affecting the
employees in a unit determined under this section to be appropriate
for collective bargaining.






Federal-Provincial successorship




36


If collective bargaining relating to a business is governed by the
laws of Canada and that business or part of it is sold, leased,
transferred or otherwise disposed of and becomes subject to the laws
of British Columbia, section 35 applies and the purchaser, lessee
or transferee is bound by any collective agreement in force at the
time of the disposition.






Merger or amalgamation




37

(1)


If a trade union claims that because of a merger, amalgamation or a
transfer of jurisdiction it is the successor of a trade union that at
the time of the merger, amalgamation or transfer of jurisdiction was
certified or voluntarily recognized as the bargaining agent for a
unit, the board may, in a proceeding before the board or on
application by the trade union concerned,




(a)

declare that the successor has, or has not, acquired its predecessor's
rights, privileges and duties under this Code, or




(b)

dismiss the application.




(2)

Before issuing a declaration under subsection (1), the board may make
the inquiries, require the production of the evidence and hold the
votes it considers necessary or advisable.




(3)

If the board makes an affirmative declaration under subsection (1),
for the purposes of this Code the successor acquires the rights,
privileges and duties of its predecessor, whether under a collective
agreement or otherwise.






Several businesses treated as one employer




38


If in the board's opinion associated or related activities or
businesses are carried on by or through more than one corporation,
individual, firm, syndicate or association, or a combination of them
under common control or direction, the board may treat them as
constituting one employer for the purposes of this Code and grant such
relief, by way of declaration or otherwise, as the board considers
appropriate.




Division 4 — Voting





Voting requirements




39

(1)


All voting directed by the board or by the minister under this Code
and other votes held by a trade union or employers' organization of
their respective members on a question of whether to strike or lock
out, or whether to accept or ratify a proposed collective agreement,
must be by secret ballot cast in such a manner that the person
expressing a choice cannot be identified with the choice expressed.




(2)

The results of a vote referred to in subsection (1), including the
number of ballots cast and the number of votes for, against or
spoiled, must be made available to both




(a)

the members, and




(b)

the trade union and employer affected.




(3)

A vote referred to in subsection (1) must be conducted in accordance
with the regulations.




(4)

If the board in its discretion directs that they may vote, the
following persons are eligible to vote in a representation vote:




(a)

persons who at the time an application for certification was received
by the board were not employees in the proposed unit but are employees
in the unit at the time of the vote;




(b)

persons who at the time an application for decertification was
received by the board were employees in the unit, but are not
employees in the unit at the time of the vote.






Additional voting requirements




40

(1)


Subject to section 17 (2), all employees in a bargaining unit, whether
or not they are members of the trade union or of any constituent union
of a council of trade unions, may participate in votes held by a trade
union of its members on a question of whether to strike or whether to
accept or ratify a proposed collective agreement.




(2)

If a trade union coordinates collective bargaining on behalf of more
than one bargaining unit, the results of any vote conducted by the
trade union of a particular bargaining unit must not be counted until
all bargaining units engaged in the bargaining have voted.




(3)

If a vote is conducted by mail, then for the purposes of this Code,
the vote is deemed to have been held on the day that ballot papers are
left with a post office as defined by the

Canada Post Corporation Act

for transmission to the persons who are to vote or, if the ballot
papers are left for that purpose with the post office on different
days, on the last of those days.




Division 5 — Councils of Trade Unions





Certification of councils of trade unions




41

(1)


To secure and maintain industrial peace and promote conditions
favourable to settlement of disputes, the minister may, on application
by one or more trade unions or on the minister's own motion, and after
the investigation considered necessary or advisable, direct the board
to consider, despite section 18, 19 or 21, whether in a
particular case a council of trade unions would be an appropriate
bargaining agent for a unit.




(2)

If a direction is made under subsection (1), the board must determine
whether




(a)

the proposed bargaining unit is appropriate for collective bargaining,
and




(b)

the proposed council of trade unions is representative of the
employees in that unit


and must make any other examination of records, inquiry or findings
including the holding of hearings it considers necessary to determine
the matter.




(3)

After a determination under subsection (2) and if the board considers
it necessary or advisable the board may




(a)

certify a council of trade unions as the bargaining agent, or




(b)

vary a certification by substituting for the trade union or trade
unions named in it a council of trade unions as bargaining agent for
that unit.




(4)

The provisions of this Code relating to an application for
certification of and to the certification of a trade union apply to an
application for certification of and to certification of a council of
trade unions.




(5)

The board may make orders and issue directions it considers necessary
or advisable respecting the formation of councils of trade unions and
the fair representation of the trade unions comprising the council of
trade unions.




(6)

If the board certifies a council of trade unions under this section,
it may




(a)

determine that no collective agreement is in effect or binding on all
or any of the employees in the unit,




(b)

determine whether a provision of a collective agreement is binding on
all or any of the employees in the unit,




(c)

determine that a provision in a collective agreement that is in effect
and binding on all or any of the employees should continue to be in
effect and binding on those employees for a term the board determines,




(d)

extend the provisions of one or more collective agreements that are in
effect to all or any of the employees,




(e)

settle the terms and conditions of a new collective agreement based in
whole or in part on one or more of the collective agreements in effect
and binding on all or any of the employees, and




(f)

make other orders or determinations that may be necessary or advisable
to carry out the purposes of this section.






Bargaining council




41.1

(1)


In this section,
"CLRA"
means the Construction Labour Relations Association of B.C., a society
under the

Societies Act

.




(2)

The bargaining council established under section 55.18, as that
section read before its repeal by the
Skills Development and Labour Statutes Amendment Act, 2001
, is continued, is deemed to be a council of trade unions established
under section 41 and is authorized to bargain on behalf of its
constituent unions with the CLRA.




(3)

Within 6 months from the date that this section comes into force, the
board must review the constitution and bylaws of the bargaining
council to ensure that they are consistent with section 41.






Dissolution of councils of trade unions




42

(1)


A constituent union of a council of trade unions must not withdraw
from the council of trade unions unless it obtains the consent of the
board and complies with subsection (2) or (3).




(2)

If a council of trade unions is a party to or is bound by a collective
agreement, no resolution, bylaw or other action by the constituent
trade unions of that council of trade unions to dissolve the council
of trade unions, or by a constituent trade union of that council of
trade unions to withdraw from the council of trade unions, as the case
may be, has effect




(a)

unless a copy of the resolution, bylaw or other action is delivered to
the employer and, in the case of a withdrawal, to the other
constituent members and to the council of trade unions, at least
90 days before the collective agreement ceases to operate, and




(b)

until the collective agreement ceases to operate.




(3)

If a council of trade unions is not a party to or bound by a
collective agreement, no resolution, bylaw or other action by the
constituent trade unions of that council of trade unions to dissolve
the council of trade unions, or by a constituent trade union of that
council of trade unions to withdraw from the council of trade unions,
has effect until the ninetieth day after the day a copy of the
resolution, bylaw or other action is delivered to the employer and, in
the case of a withdrawal, to the other constituent members and to the
council of trade unions.




Division 6 — Employers' Organizations





Accreditation of employers' organization




43

(1)


Despite this Code or a collective agreement, an employers'
organization may, subject to the regulations, apply to the board to be
accredited as bargaining agent for the employers named in the
application.




(2)

The board must




(a)

make or cause to be made the examination of records or other
inquiries, including the holding of hearings it considers necessary to
determine the merits of the application, and




(b)

specify the manner of application and the nature of the evidence that
the applicant must furnish in support of the application.




(3)

The board may, before accreditation, add the names of additional
employers to or delete the names of employers from those named in the
application.




(4)

If after the inquiry the board considers adequate it is satisfied the
employers named in the application, or in the application as amended
under subsection (3),




(a)

constitute a group appropriate for collective bargaining,




(b)

are members of the employers' organization applying or have been added
to the application under subsection (3), and




(c)

have agreed to accreditation of the applicant as bargaining agent,


the board may accredit the employers' organization as bargaining agent
for the employers named in the accreditation.




(5)

If an employers' organization is accredited under this section, it has
exclusive authority for the time the employer is named in the
accreditation to bargain collectively for the employer and to bind the
employer by collective agreement.




(6)

If an employer named in an accreditation applies to the board to amend
the accreditation by deleting the employer's name from it, and




(a)

the employer has been included in the accreditation for 2 years,
and




(b)

the employer makes the application not less than 9 months before
the expiry date of all collective agreements entered into by the
employers' organization on the employer's behalf,

the board must grant the application.





Employers' organization membership and fees




44

(1)


An employers' organization must not




(a)

refuse membership in the employers' organization to an employer, or




(b)

terminate an employer's membership in the employers' organization


except for a cause that is in the board's opinion fair and reasonable.




(2)

An employers' organization must not charge or levy initiation fees,
dues or assessments that are in the board's opinion unreasonable or
discriminatory.




Part 4 — Collective Bargaining Procedures



Division 1 — General





Notice to bargain collectively




45

(1)


When the board certifies a trade union as the bargaining agent for
employees in a unit and a collective agreement is not in force,




(a)

the trade union may by written notice require the employer to commence
collective bargaining, or the employer may by written notice require
the trade union to commence collective bargaining, and




(b)

subject to subsection (1.1), the employer must not increase or
decrease the rate of pay of an employee in the unit or alter another
term or condition of employment until




(i)

12 months after the board certifies the trade union as bargaining
agent for the unit, or




(ii)

a collective agreement is executed,

whichever occurs first.



(1.1)

If an application is made under section 55 during the period referred
to in subsection (1) (b) (i) and the process under section 55 has not
concluded before the end of that period, the employer must not
increase or decrease the rate of pay of an employee in the unit or
alter another term or condition of employment until the conclusion of
a collective agreement, the commencement of a strike or lockout or
another conclusion of the process under section 55.




(2)

If notice to commence collective bargaining has been given and the
term of a collective agreement that was in force between the parties
has expired, the employer or the trade union must not, except with the
consent of the other, alter any term or condition of employment, until




(a)

a strike or lockout has commenced,




(b)

a new collective agreement has been negotiated, or




(c)

the right of the trade union to represent the employees in the
bargaining unit has been terminated,

whichever occurs first.



(3)

Despite subsection (1), the board, after notice to the trade union,
may




(a)

authorize an employer to increase or decrease the rate of pay of an
employee in the unit, or alter a term or condition of employment, and




(b)

specify conditions to be observed by an employer so authorized.




(4)

This section must not be construed as affecting the right of an
employer to suspend, transfer, lay off, discharge or otherwise
discipline an employee for proper cause.






Notice before expiry of agreement




46

(1)


Either party to a collective agreement, whether entered into before or
after the coming into force of this Code, may at any time within 4
months immediately preceding the expiry of the agreement, by written
notice require the other party to commence collective bargaining.




(2)

A copy of the notice given under section 45 and the notice with the
endorsement referred to in this section must be sent by registered
mail to the associate chair of the Mediation Division within
3 days after notice is given under subsection (1) of this
section.




(3)

The endorsement must state where, when and to whom the original notice
was given.




(4)

If a notice is not given under subsection (1) by either party
90 days or more before the expiry of the agreement, both parties
are deemed to have given notice under this section 90 days
before the expiry.






Collective bargaining




47


If notice to commence collective bargaining has been given




(a)

under section 45, the trade union and the employer, or




(b)

under section 46, the parties to the collective agreement


must, within 10 days after the date of the notice, commence to bargain
collectively in good faith, and make every reasonable effort to
conclude a collective agreement or a renewal or revision of it.






Parties bound by collective agreement




48


A collective agreement is binding on




(a)

a trade union that has entered into it or on whose behalf a council of
trade unions has entered into it, and every employee of an employer
who has entered into it and who is included in or affected by the
agreement, and




(b)

an employer who has entered into it and on whose behalf an employers'
organization authorized by that employer has entered into it.






Terms of collective agreement to be carried out




49

(1)


A person bound by a collective agreement, whether entered into before
or after the coming into force of this Code, must




(a)

do everything the person is required to do, and




(b)

refrain from doing anything the person is required to refrain from
doing


by the provisions of the collective agreement.




(2)

A failure to meet a requirement of subsection (1) is a contravention
of this Code.




(3)

If an agreement is reached as the result of collective bargaining,
both parties must execute it.




(4)

Nothing in this section requires or authorizes a person to do anything
that conflicts with a requirement of or under this Code.




(5)

If there is any conflict between a provision of a collective agreement
and a requirement of or under this Code, the requirement of or under
this Code prevails.






Agreement for less than one year




50

(1)


Despite anything contained in it, a collective agreement, whether
entered into before or after the coming into force of this Code, must,
if for a term of less than one year, be deemed to be for a term of one
year from the date it came or comes into operation, and must not,
except with the minister's consent be terminated by the parties within
a period of one year from that date.




(2)

Subject to subsection (4), if a collective agreement is for a term of
more than one year, either party may at any time after the agreement
has been in operation for 8 months apply to the minister for leave to
notify the other party that the agreement will be terminated on its
next anniversary date.




(3)

If the minister consents to the application under subsection (2) and
the notice to terminate is served on the other party at least 3 months
before the date on which the agreement is to be terminated, the
agreement is terminated on that date.




(4)

At the time of making a collective agreement for more than a year, the
parties may, in the agreement, specifically exclude the operation of
subsections (2) and (3), and in that event subsections (2) and (3) do
not apply to the agreement.






Copies of collective agreements to be filed




51

(1)


Each of the parties to a collective agreement must, within
30 days after its execution, file a copy of it with the board.




(2)

Subsection (1) applies in relation to any renewal or revision of a
collective agreement and any ancillary agreement that comes within the
meaning of collective agreement.




(3)

If a collective agreement is not filed with the board in accordance
with subsection (1), the board may decline to consider the collective
agreement in any proceeding before the board.






Extraprovincial companies




52

(1)


An extraprovincial company for which a trade union has been certified
as bargaining agent for a unit of employees of that company must,
within 5 days of the certification, appoint a person resident in
British Columbia with authority to bargain collectively to




(a)

conclude a collective agreement with the trade union, and




(b)

sign the agreement on behalf of the company.




(2)

A collective agreement signed by a person appointed under subsection
(1) is binding on the company.




(3)

If the minister believes that no appointment has been made as required
by subsection (1), the minister may make the appointment and notify
the company and the trade union, and that appointment is as binding on
the company as if the person were appointed by the company.




Division 2 — Joint Consultation and Adjustment Plans





Joint consultation




53

(1)


A collective agreement must contain a provision requiring a
consultation committee to be established if a party makes a written
request for one after the notice to commence collective bargaining is
given or after the parties begin collective bargaining.




(2)

The consultation committee provision must provide that the parties
consult regularly during the term of the agreement about issues
relating to the workplace that affect the parties or any employee
bound by the agreement.




(3)

If the collective agreement does not contain the provisions described
in subsections (1) and (2), it is deemed to contain the following
consultation committee provision:


On the request of either party, the parties must meet at least once
every 2 months until this agreement is terminated, for the
purpose of discussing issues relating to the workplace that affect the
parties or any employee bound by this agreement.




(4)

The purpose of the consultation committee is to promote the
cooperative resolution of workplace issues, to respond and adapt to
changes in the economy, to foster the development of work related
skills and to promote workplace productivity.




(5)

The associate chair of the Mediation Division must on the request of
either party appoint a facilitator to assist in developing a more
cooperative relationship between the parties.






Adjustment plan




54

(1)


If an employer introduces or intends to introduce a measure, policy,
practice or change that affects the terms, conditions or security of
employment of a significant number of employees to whom a collective
agreement applies,




(a)

the employer must give notice to the trade union that is party to the
collective agreement at least 60 days before the date on which
the measure, policy, practice or change is to be effected, and




(b)

after notice has been given, the employer and trade union must meet,
in good faith, and endeavour to develop an adjustment plan, which may
include provisions respecting any of the following:




(i)

consideration of alternatives to the proposed measure, policy,
practice or change, including amendment of provisions in the
collective agreement;




(ii)

human resource planning and employee counselling and retraining;




(iii)

notice of termination;




(iv)

severance pay;




(v)

entitlement to pension and other benefits including early retirement
benefits;




(vi)

a bipartite process for overseeing the implementation of the
adjustment plan.




(2)

If, after meeting in accordance with subsection (1), the parties have
agreed to an adjustment plan, it is enforceable as if it were part of
the collective agreement between the employer and the trade union.




(2.1)

If, after meeting in accordance with subsection (1), the parties have
not agreed to an adjustment plan, either party may apply to the
associate chair of the Mediation Division for the appointment of a
mediator to assist the parties in developing an adjustment plan.




(2.2)

An application under subsection (2.1) must include a list of the
disputed issues.




(2.3)

If a mediator is appointed, the parties must provide the mediator with
the information the mediator requests concerning the proposed measure,
policy, practice or change, the anticipated impact of the proposal and
the efforts to develop an adjustment plan.




(2.4)

If, after mediation, the parties have not agreed to an adjustment
plan, the mediator may make recommendations for the terms of an
adjustment plan for consideration by the parties.




(2.5)

If, after mediation, the parties have agreed to an adjustment plan, it
is enforceable as if it were part of the collective agreement between
the employer and the trade union.




(3)

Subsections (1), (2) and (2.5) do not apply to the termination of the
employment of employees exempted by section 65 of the

Employment Standards Act

from the application of section 64 of that Act.




Division 3 — First Collective Agreement





First collective agreement




55

(1)


If a trade union certified as bargaining agent and an employer have
bargained collectively to conclude their first collective agreement
and have failed to do so, either party may apply to the associate
chair of the Mediation Division for the appointment of a mediator to
assist the parties in negotiating a first collective agreement.




(2)

If an application is made under subsection (1) an employee must not
strike or continue to strike, and the employer must not lock out or
continue to lock out, unless a strike or lockout is subsequently
authorized under subsection (6) (b) (iii).




(3)

The associate chair must appoint a mediator within 5 days of receiving
an application under subsection (1).




(4)

An application under subsection (1) must include a list of the
disputed issues and the position of the party making the application
on those issues.




(5)

Within 5 days of receiving the information referred to in subsection
(4), the other party must give to the party making the application and
to the associate chair a list of the disputed issues and the position
of that party on those issues.




(6)

If the first collective agreement is not concluded within 20 days
of the appointment of the mediator, the mediator must report to the
associate chair and recommend either or both of the following:




(a)

the terms of the first collective agreement for consideration by the
parties;




(b)

a process for concluding the first collective agreement including one
or more of the following:




(i)

further mediation by a person empowered to arbitrate any issues not
resolved by agreement and to conclude the terms of the first
collective agreement;




(ii)

arbitration by a single arbitrator or by the board, to conclude the
terms of the first collective agreement;




(iii)

allowing the parties to exercise their rights under this Code to
strike or lock out.




(6.1)

If the board certified the trade union under section 14 (4.1), the
mediator may consider the parties' conduct before and after
certification when recommending a process under subsection
(6) (b) of this section.




(7)

If the parties do not accept the mediator's recommended terms of
settlement or if a first collective agreement is not concluded within
20 days of the report under subsection (6), the associate chair must
direct a method set out in subsection (6) (b) for resolving the
dispute.




(7.1)

If the board certified the trade union under section 14 (4.1), the
associate chair may consider the parties' conduct before and after
certification when directing a method set out in subsection
(6) (b) of this section for resolving the dispute.




(8)

If the associate chair directs a method set out in subsection (6) (b)
(i) or (ii), the parties must refrain from or cease any strike or
lockout activity, and the terms of the collective agreement
recommended or concluded under that subsection are binding on the
parties.




Part 4.1





Repealed




55.1-55.26


[Repealed 2001-33-10.]




Part 5 — Strikes, Lockouts and Picketing





Definition




56


In this Part,
"perishable property"
includes property that




(a)

is imminently subject to spoilage, or




(b)

may imminently become dangerous to life, health or other property.






Strikes and lockouts prohibited during term of collective agreement




57

(1)


An employee bound by a collective agreement entered into before or
after the coming into force of this Code must not strike during the
term of the collective agreement, and a person must not declare or
authorize a strike of those employees during that term.




(2)

An employer bound by a collective agreement entered into before or
after the coming into force of this Code must not during the term of
the collective agreement lock out an employee bound by the collective
agreement.






Honouring of agreement




58


Every collective agreement must provide that there will be no strikes
or lockouts so long as the agreement continues to operate and, if a
collective agreement does not contain such a provision, it is deemed
to contain the following provision:


There must be no strikes or lockouts so long as this agreement
continues to operate.






Strikes and lockouts prohibited before bargaining and vote




59

(1)


A person must not take a vote under section 60 or 61 on the
question of whether to strike or on the question of whether to lock
out until the trade union and the employer or their authorized
representatives have bargained collectively in accordance with this
Code.




(2)

A trade union must not declare or authorize a strike and an employer
must not declare or cause a lockout, until




(a)

in the case of a trade union or an employee in the unit affected,
either




(i)

section 60 has been complied with, or




(ii)

a lawful lockout has occurred and has not been discontinued for a
period longer than 72 hours, or




(b)

in the case of an employer, either




(i)

section 61 has been complied with, or




(ii)

a lawful strike has occurred and has not been discontinued for a
period longer than 72 hours.






Pre-strike vote and notice




60

(1)


A person must not declare or authorize a strike and an employee must
not strike until a vote as to whether to strike has been taken in
accordance with the regulations by the employees in the unit affected,
and the majority of those employees who vote have voted for a strike.




(2)

If on application by a person directly affected by a strike vote or an
impending strike, or on its own behalf, the board is satisfied that a
vote has not been held in accordance with subsection (1), the board
may make an order declaring the vote of no force or effect and
directing that if another vote is conducted, the vote must be taken on
the terms the board considers necessary or advisable.




(3)

Except as otherwise agreed in writing between the employer or
employers' organization authorized by the employer and the trade union
representing the unit affected, if the vote favours a strike,




(a)

a person must not declare or authorize a strike, and an employee must
not strike, except during the 3 months immediately following the
date of the vote, and




(b)

an employee must not strike unless




(i)

the employer has been served with written notice by the trade union
that the employees are going on strike,




(ii)

written notice has been filed with the board,




(iii)

72 hours or a longer period directed under this section has elapsed
from the time written notice was




(A)

filed with the board, and




(B)

served on the employer, and




(iv)

if a mediation officer has been appointed under section 74,
48 hours have elapsed from the time the trade union is informed
by the associate chair that the mediation officer has reported to the
associate chair, or from the time required under
subparagraph (iii) of this paragraph, whichever is longer.




(4)

Despite subsection (3) (b) (iii), the board may direct a trade union
to give more than 72 hours' notice of a strike, on application or on
its own motion, for the protection of




(a)

perishable property, or




(b)

other property or persons affected by perishable property.




(5)

When the board makes a direction under subsection (4), the board




(a)

must specify the length of the written notice required, and




(b)

may specify terms it considers necessary or advisable.




(6)

If facilities, productions or services have been designated as
essential services under Part 6 and a strike that affects those
facilities, productions or services does not occur on the expiry of
the 72 hour period referred to in
subsection (3) (b) (iii) or the longer period specified
under subsection (5), the trade union must give to the employer
and to the board a new strike notice of at least 72 hours before
commencing a strike.






Pre-lockout vote and notice




61

(1)


If 2 or more employers are engaged in the same dispute with their
employees, a person must not declare or authorize a lockout and an
employer must not lock out the employer's employees until a vote as to
whether to lock out has been taken by all the employers in accordance
with the regulations, and a majority of those employers who vote have
voted for a lockout.




(2)

If on application by a person directly affected by a lockout vote or
an impending lockout, or on its own behalf, the board is satisfied
that a vote has not been held in accordance with subsection (1) or the
regulations, the board may make an order declaring the vote of no
force or effect and directing that if another vote is conducted the
vote must be taken on the terms the board considers necessary or
advisable.




(3)

Except as otherwise agreed in writing between the employer or
employers' organization authorized by the employer and the trade union
representing the unit affected,




(a)

if a vote is taken under subsection (1) and the vote favours a
lockout, a person must not declare or authorize a lockout and an
employer must not lock out the employer's employees except during the
3 months immediately following the date of the vote, and




(b)

an employer must not lock out the employer's employees unless




(i)

the trade union has been served with written notice by the employer
that the employer is going to lock out the employer's employees,




(ii)

written notice has been filed with the board,




(iii)

72 hours or a longer period directed under this section has elapsed
from the time written notice was




(A)

filed with the board, and




(B)

served on the trade union, and




(iv)

if a mediation officer has been appointed under section 74,
48 hours have elapsed from the time the employers are informed by
the associate chair that the mediation officer has reported to the
associate chair, or from the time required under
subparagraph (iii) of this paragraph, whichever is longer.




(4)

Despite subsection (3) (b) (iii), the board may direct an employer to
give more than 72 hours' notice of a lockout, on application or on its
own motion, for the protection of




(a)

perishable property, or




(b)

other property or persons affected by perishable property.




(5)

If the board makes a direction under subsection (4), the board




(a)

must specify the length of the written notice required, and




(b)

may specify terms it considers necessary or advisable.




(6)

If facilities, productions or services have been designated as
essential services under Part 6 and a lockout that affects those
facilities, productions or services does not occur on the expiry of
the 72 hour period referred to in
subsection (3) (b) (iii) or the longer period specified
under subsection (5), the employer must give to the board and the
trade union a new lockout notice of at least 72 hours before
commencing a lockout.






Continuation of benefits




62

(1)


If employees are lawfully on strike or lawfully locked out, their
health and welfare benefits, other than pension benefits or
contributions, normally provided directly or indirectly by the
employer to the employees must be continued if the trade union tenders
payment to the employer or to any person who was before the strike or
lockout obligated to receive the payment




(a)

in an amount sufficient to continue the employees' entitlement to the
benefits, and




(b)

on or before the regular due date of that payment.




(2)

If subsection (1) is complied with




(a)

the employer or other person referred to in that subsection must
accept the payment tendered by the trade union, and




(b)

a person must not deny to an employee a benefit described in that
subsection, including coverage under an insurance plan, for which the
employee would otherwise be eligible, because the employee is
participating in a lawful strike or is lawfully locked out.




(3)

A trade union and an employer may agree in writing to specifically
exclude the operation of this section.






Rights preserved




63

(1)


This Code must not be construed to prohibit the suspension or
discontinuance by an employer of operations in the employer's
establishment, in whole or in part, for a cause not constituting a
lockout.




(2)

The burden of proof that operations in the employer's establishment
are or were suspended or discontinued for a cause not constituting a
lockout is on the employer.




(3)

An act or omission by a trade union or by the employees does not
constitute a strike if




(a)

it is required for the safety or health of those employees, or




(b)

it is permitted under a provision of a collective agreement by which
an employer agrees that employees within the bargaining unit covered
by the collective agreement are not required to work in association
with persons who are not members of




(i)

the trade union representing the bargaining unit, or




(ii)

another trade union contemplated by the collective agreement.






Information




64


A trade union or other person may, at any time and in a manner that
does not constitute picketing as defined in this Code, communicate
information to a person, or publicly express sympathy or support for a
person, as to matters or things affecting or relating to terms or
conditions of employment or work done or to be done by that person.






Picketing




65

(1)


In this section:


"ally"
means a person who, in the board's opinion, in combination, in concert
or in accordance with a common understanding with an employer assists
the employer in a lockout or in resisting a lawful strike;



"common site picketing"

means picketing at or near a site or place where




(a)

2 or more employers carry on operations, employment or business, and




(b)

there is a lockout or lawful strike by or against one of the employers
referred to in paragraph (a), or one of them is an ally of an employer
by or against whom there is a lockout or lawful strike.




(2)

A person who, for the benefit of a struck employer, or for the benefit
of an employer who has locked out, performs work, supplies goods or
furnishes services of a nature or kind that, except for a lockout or
lawful strike, would be performed, supplied or furnished by the
employer, must be presumed by the board to be the employer's ally
unless the person proves the contrary.




(3)

A trade union, a member or members of which are lawfully on strike or
locked out, or a person authorized by the trade union, may picket at
or near a site or place where a member of the trade union performs
work under the control or direction of the employer if the work is an
integral and substantial part of the employer's operation and the site
or place is a site or place of the lawful strike or lockout.




(4)

The board may, on application and after making the inquiries it
requires, permit picketing




(a)

at or near another site or place that the employer causing a lockout
or whose employees are lawfully on strike is using to perform work,
supply goods or furnish services for the employer's own benefit that,
except for the lockout or strike, would be performed, supplied or
furnished at the site or place where picketing is permitted by
subsection (3), or




(b)

at or near the place where an ally performs work, supplies goods or
furnishes services for the benefit of a struck employer, or for the
benefit of an employer who has locked out,


but the board must not permit common site picketing unless it also
makes an order under subsection (6) defining the site or place and
restricting the picketing in the manner referred to in that
subsection.




(5)

In subsection (4),
"employer"
means the person whose operation may be lawfully picketed under
subsection (3).




(6)

The board may, on application or on its own motion, make an order
defining the site or place at which picketing that is permitted by
subsection (3), or that is permitted under subsection (4), may take
place.




(7)

If the picketing referred to in subsection (6) is common site
picketing, the board must restrict the picketing in such a manner that
it affects only the operation of the employer causing the lockout or
whose employees are lawfully on strike, or an operation of an ally of
that employer, unless it is not possible to do so without prohibiting
picketing that is permitted by subsection (3) or (4), in which case
the board may regulate the picketing as it considers appropriate.




(8)

For the purpose of this section, divisions or other parts of a
corporation or firm, if they are separate and distinct operations,
must be treated as separate employers.






Actions




66


No action or proceeding may be brought for




(a)

petty trespass to land to which a member of the public ordinarily has
access,




(b)

interference with contractual relations, or




(c)

interference with the trade, business or employment of another person
resulting in a reduction in trade or business, impairment of business
opportunity or other economic loss


arising out of strikes, lockouts or picketing permitted under this
Code or attempts to persuade employees to join a trade union made at
or near but outside entrances and exits to an employer's workplace.






Picketing restricted




67


Except as provided in this Code, a person must not picket in respect
of a matter or dispute to which this Code applies.






Replacement workers




68

(1)


During a lockout or strike authorized by this Code an employer must
not use the services of a person, whether paid or not,




(a)

who is hired or engaged after the earlier of the date on which the
notice to commence collective bargaining is given and the date on
which bargaining begins,




(b)

who ordinarily works at another of the employer's places of
operations,




(c)

who is transferred to a place of operations in respect of which the
strike or lockout is taking place, if the person was transferred after
the earlier of the date on which the notice to commence bargaining is
given and the date on which bargaining begins, or




(d)

who is employed, engaged or supplied to the employer by another
person,

to perform



(e)

the work of an employee in the bargaining unit that is on strike or
locked out, or




(f)

the work ordinarily done by a person who is performing the work of an
employee in the bargaining unit that is on strike or locked out.




(2)

An employer must not require any person who works at a place of
operations in respect of which the strike or lockout is taking place
to perform any work of an employee in the bargaining unit that is on
strike or is locked out without the consent of the person.




(3)

An employer must not




(a)

refuse to employ or continue to employ a person,




(b)

threaten to dismiss a person or otherwise threaten a person,




(c)

discriminate against a person in regard to employment or a term or
condition of employment, or




(d)

intimidate or coerce or impose a pecuniary or other penalty on a
person,


because of the person's refusal to perform any or all of the work of
an employee in the bargaining unit that is on strike or locked out.






Other acts not actionable




69


An act done by 2 or more persons acting by agreement or combination,
if done in contemplation or furtherance of a labour dispute, is not
actionable unless it would be wrongful without an agreement or
combination.






Declaratory opinion




70

(1)


If, on the complaint by an interested person, the board is satisfied
that a declaration by or on behalf of a trade union or employer, or an
agreement or combination between one or more employers and one or more
trade unions, or 2 or more trade unions, is substantially affecting
trade and commerce in a commodity or service or is substantially
affecting the business, operations or purposes of the complainant, the
board may, in its discretion, issue a declaratory opinion that




(a)

the declaration, agreement or combination is void for all purposes,




(b)

the declaration, agreement or combination is unenforceable in
specified circumstances or for a specified period of time, or




(c)

the declaration, agreement or combination is valid and enforceable.




(2)

When the board issues a declaratory opinion under subsection (1) (a)
or (b), it may make orders or take steps it considers advisable to
ensure that persons affected by the declaration, agreement or
combination are informed of the terms of the declaratory opinion.




(3)

The board, in determining whether to issue a declaratory opinion under
subsection (1), must consider




(a)

the extent to which the employment, business, operations, purposes or
property of the complainant have been affected by the declaration,
agreement or combination, and




(b)

the intent and purpose of this Part and the necessity for reasonable
protection and advancement of a trade union or employer.






Refusal of order




71


The board may refuse to make an order under Part 9 in respect of a
matter arising under this Part if it believes it is just and equitable
to do so in view of the improper conduct of the person applying for
the order.




Part 6 — Essential Services





Essential services




72

(1)


If a dispute arises after collective bargaining has commenced, the
chair may, on the chair's own motion or on application by either of
the parties to the dispute,




(a)

investigate whether or not the dispute poses a threat to the health,
safety or welfare of the residents of British Columbia, and




(b)

report the results of the investigation to the minister.




(2)

If the minister




(a)

after receiving a report of the chair respecting a dispute, or




(b)

on the minister's own initiative


considers that a dispute poses a threat to the health, safety or
welfare of the residents of British Columbia, the minister may direct
the board to designate as essential services those facilities,
productions and services that the board considers necessary or
essential to prevent immediate and serious danger to the health,
safety or welfare of the residents of British Columbia.




(2.1)

[Repealed 2019-28-16.]




(3)

When the minister makes a direction under subsection (2) the associate
chair of the Mediation Division may appoint one or more mediators to
assist the parties to reach an agreement on essential services
designations.




(4)

A mediator appointed under subsection (3) must report to the associate
chair of the Mediation Division within 15 days of the mediator's
appointment or within any additional period agreed on by the parties.




(5)

The board




(a)

must within 30 days of receiving the report of a mediator, designate
facilities, productions and services as essential services under
subsection (2), and




(b)

may, in its discretion, incorporate any recommendations made by the
mediator into the designation under that subsection.




(6)

If the minister makes a direction under subsection (2) before a strike
or lockout has commenced, the parties must not strike or lock out
until the designation of essential services is made by the board.




(7)

If the minister makes a direction under subsection (2) after a strike
or lockout has commenced, the parties may continue the strike or
lockout subject to any designation of essential services by the board.




(8)

If the board designates facilities, productions and services as
essential services, the employer and the trade union must supply,
provide or maintain in full measure those facilities, productions and
services and must not restrict or limit a facility, production or
service so designated.




(9)

A designation made under this section may be amended, varied or
revoked and another made in its place, and despite section 135
the board may, in its discretion, on application or on its own motion,
decline to file its order in a Supreme Court registry.






Return to work




73

(1)


Every employer, trade union or employee affected by a direction or
designation made under section 72 with respect to the dispute
must comply with the direction or designation.




(2)

If a designation is made under section 72, the relationship between
the employer and the employer's employees, while the designation
remains in effect, must be governed by the terms and conditions of the
collective agreement last in force between the employer and the trade
union except as that collective agreement is amended by the board to
the extent necessary to implement the designation of essential
services.




(3)

The board may under section 72 designate facilities, productions and
services supplied, provided or maintained by employees of the employer
who are represented by another trade union that is not involved in a
collective bargaining dispute with the employer.




Part 7 — Mediation and Disputes Resolution



Division 1 — Mediation and Fact Finding





Mediation officer and services




74

(1)


The associate chair of the Mediation Division may appoint a mediation
officer if




(a)

notice has been given to commence collective bargaining between a
trade union and an employer,




(b)

either party makes a written request to the associate chair to appoint
a mediation officer to confer with the parties to assist them to
conclude a collective agreement or a renewal or revision of it, and




(c)

the request is accompanied by a statement of the matters the parties
have or have not agreed on in the course of collective bargaining.




(2)

A person appointed as a mediation officer need not be an employee of
the board.




(3)

The minister may at any time during the course of collective
bargaining between an employer and a trade union, if the minister
considers that the appointment is likely to facilitate the making of a
collective agreement, appoint a mediation officer to confer with the
parties.




(4)

If a mediation officer is appointed to confer with the parties, the
mediation officer must, no later than 10 days after first meeting
with the parties or 20 days after the mediation officer's appointment,
whichever is sooner, or such longer period as the parties agree on or
as the minister directs, report to the associate chair setting out the
matters on which the parties have or have not agreed and such other
information as the mediation officer considers relevant to the
collective bargaining between the parties.




(5)

If either party so requests of the associate chair, or if the minister
so directs, the mediation officer must provide to the associate chair
and the parties a report concerning the collective bargaining dispute,
and the report may include recommended terms of settlement.




(6)

Parties conferring with a mediation officer under this section must
provide the information that the mediation officer requests concerning
their collective bargaining.






Notice of strike or lockout




75

(1)


If a strike or lockout has commenced, the trade union or employer
commencing the strike or lockout must immediately inform the chair in
writing specifying the date the strike or lockout commenced.




(2)

The chair must inform the minister of strikes and lockouts that occur
or are threatened.






Special mediator




76

(1)


The minister may appoint a special mediator, and specify terms of
reference for the special mediator, to assist the parties in settling
the terms and conditions of a collective agreement or a renewal or
revision of a collective agreement.




(2)

The minister may terminate the appointment of a special mediator.




(3)

The special mediator must keep the minister informed as to the
progress of the mediation.




(4)

The special mediator, in carrying out the special mediator's duties
under this Code, has the powers and protection set out in sections
145.1 to 145.4.






Fact finding




77

(1)


The associate chair may appoint a fact finder in respect of a
collective bargaining dispute, and the associate chair must give
written notice of the appointment to each of the parties to the
dispute.




(2)

Within 7 days after receiving the notice of the appointment of the
fact finder, each party must give written notice to the fact finder
and the other party setting out all matters the parties have agreed on
for inclusion in a collective agreement and all matters remaining in
dispute between the parties.




(3)

If a party fails to comply with subsection (2), the fact finder may
make a determination of the matters mentioned in subsection (2).




(4)

It is the duty of a fact finder to confer with the parties and to
inquire into, ascertain and make a report to the associate chair
setting out the matters agreed on by the parties for inclusion in a
collective agreement and the matters remaining in dispute between the
parties.




(5)

The fact finder may include in a report any findings made by the fact
finder in respect of any matter that the fact finder considers
relevant to the making of a collective agreement between the parties.




(6)

The associate chair must provide a copy of the fact finder's report to
the parties, and may make it public if the associate chair considers
it advisable to do so.






Last offer votes




78

(1)


Before the commencement of a strike or lockout, the employer of the
employees in the affected bargaining unit may request that a vote of
those employees be taken as to the acceptance or rejection of the
offer of the employer last received by the trade union in respect of
all matters remaining in dispute between the parties, and if the
employer requests that a vote be taken, the associate chair must
direct that a vote of those employees to accept or reject the offer be
held in a manner the associate chair directs.




(2)

Before the commencement of a strike or lockout, the trade union that
is certified as the bargaining agent of the employees in the affected
bargaining unit may, if more than one employer is represented in the
dispute by an employers' organization, request that a vote of those
employers be taken as to the acceptance or rejection of the offer of
the trade union last received by the employers' organization in
respect of all matters remaining in dispute between the parties, and
if the trade union requests that a vote be taken, the associate chair
must direct that a vote of those employers to accept or reject the
offer be held in a manner the associate chair directs.




(3)

If a vote under this section favours the acceptance of a final offer,
an agreement is thereby constituted between the parties.




(4)

The holding of a vote or a request for the taking of a vote under
subsection (1) or (2) does not extend any time limits or
periods referred to in section 60 or 61.




(5)

Only one vote in respect of the same dispute may be held under
subsection (1) and only one vote in respect of the same dispute may be
held under subsection (2).




(6)

If, during a strike or lockout, the minister considers that it is in
the public interest that the employees in the affected bargaining unit
be given the opportunity to accept or reject the offer of the employer
last received by the trade union in respect of all matters remaining
in dispute between the parties, the minister may direct that a vote of
the employees in the bargaining unit to accept or reject the offer be
held forthwith in a manner the minister directs.




(7)

If, during a strike or lockout, more than one employer is represented
in the dispute by an employers' organization and the minister
considers that it is in the public interest that the employers
comprising the employers' organization be given the opportunity to
accept or reject the offer of the bargaining agent for the employees
last received by the employers' organization in respect of all matters
remaining in dispute between the parties, the minister may direct that
a vote of those employers to accept or reject the offer be held
forthwith in a manner the minister directs.




Division 2 — Commissions and Councils





Industrial inquiry commission




79

(1)


The minister may, on application or on the minister's own motion, make
or cause to be made inquiries considered advisable respecting labour
relations matters, and subject to this Code and regulations, may do
the things the minister considers necessary to maintain or secure
labour relations stability and promote conditions favourable to
settlement of disputes.




(2)

For any of the purposes of subsection (1), or if in an industry a
dispute between employers and employees exists or is likely to arise,
the minister may refer the matter to an industrial inquiry commission
for investigation and report.




(3)

An industrial inquiry commission consists of one or more members
appointed by the minister.




(4)

The minister must furnish the industrial inquiry commission with a
statement of the matters to be inquired into, and if an inquiry
involves particular persons or parties, must advise them of the
appointment of the industrial inquiry commission.




(5)

An industrial inquiry commission must inquire into the matters
referred to it by the minister and endeavour to carry out its terms of
reference, and if a settlement is not effected in the meantime, must
report the result of its inquiries and its recommendations to the
minister within 14 days after its appointment or within a further
time the minister specifies.




(6)

On receipt of a report of an industrial inquiry commission relating to
a dispute between employers and employees, the minister must furnish a
copy to each of the parties affected and must publish it in the manner
considered advisable.




(7)

The members of an industrial inquiry commission have the powers and
protection set out in sections 145.1 to 145.4.




(8)

If either before or after the report is made the parties agree in
writing to accept the report in respect of the matters referred to the
industrial inquiry commission, the parties are bound by the report in
respect of those matters.






Industry councils




80

(1)


On application by an employer, a trade union or the board, or on the
minister's own motion, the minister may direct the board to assist the
parties to establish an industry council.




(2)

An industry council may do one or more of the following:




(a)

recommend measures to achieve more effective collective bargaining and
procedures for settling disputes for the industry;




(b)

identify skills and training needs, health and safety issues,
competitive and productivity challenges and other issues for the
industry;




(c)

develop labour market information and marketing initiatives for the
industry;




(d)

make recommendations considered necessary to advance the industry.




Part 8 — Arbitration Procedures



Division 1 — Definitions and Purpose





Definitions




81


In this Part:



"arbitration board"

includes




(a)

a single arbitrator, or




(b)

another tribunal or body appointed or constituted under this Part or a
collective agreement;



"arbitration bureau"

means the Collective Agreement Arbitration Bureau continued under this
Part;


"director"
means the director of the arbitration bureau;


"issue"
means, in respect of an award, to make and publish the award to the
parties to the arbitration;



"settlement officer"

means an employee appointed under the

Public Service Act

who is appointed as a settlement officer by the director.






Purpose of Part




82

(1)


It is the purpose of this Part to constitute methods and procedures
for determining grievances and resolving disputes under the provisions
of a collective agreement without resort to stoppages of work.




(2)

An arbitration board, to further the purpose expressed in subsection
(1), must have regard to the real substance of the matters in dispute
and the respective merit of the positions of the parties to it under
the terms of the collective agreement, and must apply principles
consistent with the industrial relations policy of this Code, and is
not bound by a strict legal interpretation of the issue in dispute.




Division 2 — Collective Agreement Arbitration Bureau





Collective Agreement Arbitration Bureau




83

(1)


The Collective Agreement Arbitration Bureau is continued consisting of
a director designated by the chair and other employees of the board
designated by the director.




(2)

The director must establish and maintain a register of arbitrators.




(3)

The minister must appoint a joint advisory committee consisting of




(a)

2 persons representative of trade unions,




(b)

2 persons representative of employers,




(c)

2 persons representative of arbitrators, and




(d)

the director, who is the chair of the committee.




(4)

The joint advisory committee must advise the director on




(a)

the training and education of labour arbitrators and settlement
officers,




(b)

research and publication of information concerning labour
arbitrations, and




(c)

the establishment and maintenance of a register of arbitrators.




Division 3 — Collective Agreement Provisions





Dismissal or arbitration provision




84

(1)


Every collective agreement must contain a provision governing
dismissal or discipline of an employee bound by the agreement, and
that or another provision must require that the employer have a just
and reasonable cause for dismissal or discipline of an employee, but
this section does not prohibit the parties to a collective agreement
from including in it a different provision for employment of certain
employees on a probationary basis.




(2)

Every collective agreement must contain a provision for final and
conclusive settlement without stoppage of work, by arbitration or
another method agreed to by the parties, of all disputes between the
persons bound by the agreement respecting its interpretation,
application, operation or alleged violation, including a question as
to whether a matter is arbitrable.




(3)

If a collective agreement does not contain a provision referred to in
subsections (1) and (2), the collective agreement is deemed to contain
those of the following provisions it does not contain:




(a)

the employer must not dismiss or discipline an employee bound by this
agreement except for just and reasonable cause;




(b)

if a difference arises between the parties relating to the dismissal
or discipline of an employee, or to the interpretation, application,
operation or alleged violation of this agreement, including a question
as to whether a matter is arbitrable, either of the parties, without
stoppage of work, may, after exhausting any grievance procedure
established by this agreement, notify the other party in writing of
its desire to submit the difference to arbitration, and the parties
must agree on a single arbitrator, the arbitrator must hear and
determine the difference and issue a decision, which is final and
binding on the parties and any person affected by it.






Unworkable provision




85

(1)


If in the minister's opinion a part of the arbitration provision in a
collective agreement, including the method of appointing the
arbitration board, is inadequate, or the provision set out in section
84 (3) (b) is alleged by either party to be unsuitable, the minister
may at the request of either party modify the provision so long as it
conforms with section 84 (1) and (2).




(2)

Until modified under subsection (1), the arbitration provision in the
collective agreement, or in section 84 (3) (b), as the case may be,
applies.






Failure to appoint arbitration board




86

(1)


Despite section 85, if there is a failure to appoint or constitute an
arbitration board under a collective agreement or under section 84
(3), the director, at the request of either party, must make the
appointments necessary to constitute an arbitration board, and a
person so appointed by the director is deemed to be appointed in
accordance with the collective agreement, or under section 84 (3), as
the case may be.




(2)

Nothing in a collective agreement is to be construed as requiring the
director to constitute an arbitration board consisting of more than a
single arbitrator.






Settlement officer




87

(1)


Either party to the collective agreement, after the completion of the
steps of the grievance procedure preceding a reference to arbitration,
may request the director in writing to appoint a settlement officer to
confer with the parties to assist them to settle the difference, if
the request is accompanied by a statement of the difference to be
settled.




(2)

If a settlement officer is appointed under subsection (1), the
settlement officer must, within 5 days of the appointment or within
such further time as the director may allow,




(a)

inquire into the difference,




(b)

endeavour to assist the parties in settling the difference, and




(c)

report to the director on the results of the inquiry and the success
of the settlement effort.




(3)

When the director receives a report under subsection (2) and the
parties have not settled the difference, the director may refer the
difference back to the parties.






Action by Labour Relations Board




88


If a difference arises during the term of a collective agreement, and
in the board's opinion delay has occurred in settling it or it is a
source of industrial unrest between the parties, the board may, on
application by either party to the difference, or on its own motion,




(a)

inquire into the difference and make recommendations for settlement,
and




(b)

if the difference is arbitrable, order that it be immediately
submitted to a specified stage or step in the grievance procedure
under the collective agreement or, whether or not the difference is
arbitrable, request the minister to appoint a special officer.






Case management conference




88.1


Within 30 days of the appointment of an arbitration board, the
arbitration board must conduct a case management conference to




(a)

schedule the exchange of information and documents,




(b)

schedule hearing dates, and




(c)

encourage settlement of the dispute.






Authority of arbitration board




89


For the purposes set out in section 82, an arbitration board has the
authority necessary to provide a final and conclusive settlement of a
dispute arising under a collective agreement, and without limitation,
may




(a)

make an order setting the monetary value of an injury or loss suffered
by an employer, trade union or other person as a result of a
contravention of a collective agreement, and directing a person to pay
a person all or part of the amount of that monetary value,




(b)

order an employer to reinstate an employee dismissed in contravention
of a collective agreement,




(c)

order an employer or trade union to rescind and rectify a disciplinary
action that was taken in respect of an employee and that was imposed
in contravention of a collective agreement,




(d)

determine that a dismissal or discipline is excessive in all
circumstances of the case and substitute other measures that appear
just and equitable,




(e)

relieve, on just and reasonable terms, against breaches of time limits
or other procedural requirements set out in the collective agreement,




(f)

dismiss or reject an application or grievance or refuse to settle a
difference, if in the arbitration board's opinion, there has been
unreasonable delay by the person bringing the application or grievance
or requesting the settlement, and the delay has operated to the
prejudice or detriment of the other party to the difference,




(g)

interpret and apply any Act intended to regulate the employment
relationship of the persons bound by a collective agreement, even
though the Act's provisions conflict with the terms of the collective
agreement, and




(h)

encourage settlement of the dispute and, with the agreement of the
parties, the arbitration board may use mediation, conciliation or
other procedures at any time during the arbitral proceedings to
encourage settlement.






Fees and costs




90

(1)


Unless the provision required under section 84 or 85 provides
otherwise, each party to an arbitration under section 84, 85, 104
or 105 must bear




(a)

its own fees, expenses and costs,




(b)

the fees and expenses of a member of an arbitration board that is
appointed by or on behalf of that party, and




(c)

equally the fees and expenses of the chair of the arbitration board or
a single arbitrator, unless the arbitration board allows another
person to participate in the hearing in which case the arbitration
board may direct that a portion of the fees and expenses of the chair
be borne by that person.




(2)

If the director appoints a single arbitrator or the chair of an
arbitration board under section 86, each party must pay 1/2 the
remuneration and expenses of the person appointed, unless the
arbitration board allows another person to participate in the hearing
in which case the arbitration board may direct that a portion of the
fees and expenses of the chair be borne by that person.




(3)

If the director appoints a member of an arbitration board under
section 86 on the failure of one of the parties to make the
appointment, that party must pay the remuneration and expenses of the
person appointed.






Delay by arbitration board




91


If a difference has been submitted to arbitration and a party to the
arbitration complains to the minister that the arbitration board has
failed to render a decision in a reasonable time, the minister may,
after consulting the parties and the arbitration board, issue an order
the minister considers necessary to ensure a decision will be rendered
without further undue delay.






Powers of arbitration board




92

(1)


An arbitration board may




(a)

determine its own procedure,




(b)

receive and accept evidence and information on oath, affidavit or
otherwise as in its discretion it considers proper, whether or not the
evidence is admissible in a court of law,




(c)

determine prehearing matters and issue prehearing orders,




(d)

enter during regular working hours any land, ship, vessel, vehicle,
aircraft or other means of conveyance or transport, factory, workshop
or place of any kind where




(i)

work is or has been done or commenced by employees,




(ii)

an employer carries on business, or




(iii)

anything is taking place or has taken place concerning a matter
referred to the arbitration board under this Code,


and may inspect any work, material, appliance, machinery, equipment or
thing in it, and interrogate any person in relation to it, and




(e)

authorize a person to do anything the arbitration board may do under
paragraph (d) and report to the arbitration board in the presence of
the parties or their representatives as a witness subject to cross
examination by each party.




(2)

The jurisdiction of an arbitration board to hear and determine a
difference does not cease until the matters in dispute have been
finally resolved.






Summons to testify




93

(1)


An arbitration board may, at the request of a party to the arbitration
or on its own motion, summon and enforce the attendance of witnesses
and compel them to give oral or written evidence on oath and to
produce the documents and things it considers requisite to a full
consideration of matters before the arbitration board, in the same
manner as a court of record in civil cases.




(2)

If an arbitration board consists of more than one person, the chair of
the arbitration board may exercise all the authority of the
arbitration board under subsection (1).






Decision of arbitration board




94


If a collective agreement provides for submission of a difference to
an arbitration board consisting of more than one arbitrator, the
decision of a majority of the arbitrators is the decision of the
arbitration board, but if there is no majority decision, the decision
of the chair of the arbitration board is the decision of the
arbitration board.






Effect of decision




95


The decision of an arbitration board is binding




(a)

on the parties,




(b)

in the case of a collective agreement between a trade union and an
employers' organization, on the employers who are bound by the
agreement and who are affected by the decision,




(c)

in the case of a collective agreement between a council of trade
unions and an employer or an employers' organization, on the council,
the constituent trade unions in it and the employer or employers who
are covered by the agreement and who are affected by the decision, and




(d)

on the employees who are bound by the collective agreement and who are
affected by the decision,


and they must comply in all respects with the decision.






Filing decision




96


An arbitration board must, within 10 days of issuing an award, file a
copy of it with the director who must make the award available for
public inspection.






Act not to apply




97


The

Arbitration Act

does not apply to an arbitration under this Code.






Reference to Labour Relations Board




98


An arbitration board may, at any stage of an arbitration, refer to the
board for a binding opinion and decision a question of labour
relations policy or interpretation of this Code arising in the course
of the arbitration.






Appeal jurisdiction of Labour Relations Board




99

(1)


On application by a party affected by the decision or award of an
arbitration board, the board may set aside the award, remit the
matters referred to it back to the arbitration board, stay the
proceedings before the arbitration board or substitute the decision or
award of the board for the decision or award of the arbitration board,
on the ground that




(a)

a party to the arbitration has been or is likely to be denied a fair
hearing, or




(b)

the decision or award of the arbitration board is inconsistent with
the principles expressed or implied in this Code or another Act
dealing with labour relations.




(2)

An application to the board under subsection (1) must be made in
accordance with the regulations.






Appeal jurisdiction of Court of Appeal




100


On application by a party affected by a decision or award of an
arbitration board, the Court of Appeal may review the decision or
award if the basis of the decision or award is a matter or issue of
the general law




(a)

unrelated to a collective agreement, labour relations or related
determinations of fact, and




(b)

not included in section 99 (1).






Decision final




101


Except as provided in this Part, the decision or award of an
arbitration board under this Code is final and conclusive and is not
open to question or review in a court on any grounds whatsoever, and
proceedings by or before an arbitration board must not be restrained
by injunction, prohibition or other process or proceeding in a court
and are not removable by certiorari or otherwise into a court.






Enforcement




102

(1)


If a party or a person has failed or neglected to comply with the
decision of an arbitration board, a party or person affected by the
decision may, after the expiration of 14 days from the date of
the release of the decision or the date provided in the decision for
compliance, whichever is later, file in the Supreme Court registry a
copy of the decision in the prescribed form.




(2)

A decision filed under subsection (1) must be entered as if it were a
decision of the court, and on being entered is deemed, for all
purposes except an appeal from it, to be an order of the Supreme Court
and enforceable as an order of the court.






Repealed




103


[Repealed 1997-27-24.]




Division 4 — Expedited Arbitration





Expedited arbitration




104

(1)


A party to a collective agreement may refer a difference respecting
its interpretation, application, operation or alleged violation,
including a question as to whether a matter is arbitrable, to the
director for resolution by expedited arbitration.




(2)

No difference may be referred to the director under this section
unless




(a)

the grievance procedure under the collective agreement has been
exhausted, and




(b)

the application is made within 15 days of the completion of the steps
of the grievance procedure preceding a reference to arbitration.




(3)

No difference under a collective agreement may be referred to the
director under this section if




(a)

the difference has been referred to arbitration under the collective
agreement by the party who wishes to refer it under this section, or




(b)

the time, if any, stipulated in or permitted under the collective
agreement for referring the difference to arbitration has expired.




(4)

If a difference is referred to the director within the time periods
specified in this section, the director




(a)

must appoint an arbitrator to hear and determine the matter arising
out of the difference, and




(b)

[Repealed 2019-28-21.]




(c)

may, if a party so requests, appoint a settlement officer to assist
the parties in settling the grievance before the hearing.




(5)

If a settlement officer is appointed under subsection (4), the
settlement officer must, within 5 days after the appointment or within
such further time as the director may allow,




(a)

inquire into the difference,




(b)

endeavour to assist the parties in settling the difference, and




(c)

report to the director on the results of the inquiry and the success
of the settlement effort.




(6)

If the parties are unable to settle the difference, the arbitrator
appointed under subsection (4) must proceed to hear and determine the
matter arising out of the difference.




(6.1)

In proceeding to hear and determine the matter arising out of the
difference, the arbitrator appointed under subsection (4) must




(a)

within 7 days of the appointment conduct a case management conference
to




(i)

schedule the exchange of information and documents,




(ii)

schedule hearing dates, and




(iii)

encourage settlement of the dispute, and




(b)

conclude the arbitration within 90 days after the date on which the
difference was referred to the director.




(7)

After the conclusion of the hearing, the arbitrator appointed under
subsection (4) must issue a decision as follows:




(a)

if jointly requested to do so by the parties to the difference and if
possible, the arbitrator must issue an oral decision within one day
after the conclusion of the hearing;




(b)

the arbitrator must issue a decision with written reasons not
exceeding 7 pages within 30 days after the conclusion of the hearing
unless an oral decision has been issued under paragraph (a) of this
subsection and the parties agree that written reasons are not
required.




(8)

An arbitrator appointed under subsection (4) has all the power and
jurisdiction of an arbitrator appointed under this Code or the
collective agreement between the parties to the difference.




(8.1)

Without limiting subsection (8) and sections 82, 89 and 92, an
arbitrator appointed under subsection (4) may do one or more of the
following:




(a)

set the date of the hearing;




(b)

order that a brief written summary of each party's position be
exchanged;




(c)

order that an agreed statement of facts be prepared by the parties;




(d)

limit the time allowed to the parties to present evidence or for oral
argument at the hearing;




(e)

limit references by the parties to authorities;




(f)

establish procedures designed to facilitate an expedited decision.




(9)

This section applies to every party to a collective agreement and
every person bound by a collective agreement, despite any provision in
the collective agreement.




(10)

The other provisions of this Part apply to an arbitration under this
section, with the modifications necessary to accommodate appointments
and expedited processes under this section.






Consensual mediation-arbitration




105

(1)


Despite any grievance or arbitration provision in a collective
agreement or deemed to be included in a collective agreement under
section 84 (3), the parties to the collective agreement may, at any
time, agree to refer one or more grievances under the collective
agreement to a single mediator-arbitrator for the purpose of resolving
the grievances in an expeditious and informal manner.




(2)

The parties must not refer a grievance to a mediator-arbitrator unless
they have agreed on the nature of any issues in dispute.




(3)

The parties may jointly request the director to appoint a
mediator-arbitrator if they are unable to agree on one, and the
director may make the appointment.




(4)

Subject to subsection (5), a mediator-arbitrator appointed by the
director must begin proceedings within 28 days after being appointed.




(5)

The director may direct a mediator-arbitrator to begin proceedings on
such date as the parties jointly request.




(6)

The mediator-arbitrator must endeavour to assist the parties to settle
the grievance by mediation.




(7)

If the parties are unable to settle the grievance by mediation, the
mediator-arbitrator must endeavour to assist the parties to agree on
the material facts in dispute and then must determine the grievance by
arbitration.




(8)

When determining the grievance by arbitration, the mediator-arbitrator
may limit the nature and extent of evidence and submissions and may
impose such conditions as the mediator-arbitrator considers
appropriate.




(9)

The mediator-arbitrator must give a succinct decision within
21 days after completing proceedings on the grievance submitted
to arbitration.




(10)

Sections 89 to 102 apply in respect of a mediator-arbitrator and a
settlement, determination or decision under this section.




Division 5 — Special Officer





Special officer




106

(1)


If during the term of a collective agreement there is or is a
likelihood of a dispute or difference arising out of or relating to
the agreement, the minister may in the interest of industrial peace
appoint a special officer.




(2)

On the special officer's appointment, the special officer must
investigate the dispute or difference and may




(a)

confer with the parties,




(b)

hold hearings,




(c)

make recommendations,




(d)

make orders the special officer considers necessary or advisable,
including, without limitation, orders that the dispute or difference
be submitted to a specified stage or step in the grievance procedure
under the collective agreement, or




(e)

arbitrate the dispute or difference.






Effect of order




107


An order made by a special officer is binding on all persons bound by
the collective agreement and all parties to the dispute or difference.






Interim order




108


When a special officer makes an order on a matter not provided for by
the collective agreement, or which differs from the provisions of the
collective agreement, the order is binding on the parties to the
dispute or difference for a period not exceeding 30 days.






Powers




109


For the purpose of investigating a dispute or difference or holding a
hearing, a special officer has the powers and protection set out in
sections 145.1 to 145.4 and may enter during regular working hours any
land, ship, vessel, vehicle, aircraft or other means of conveyance or
transport, factory, workshop or place of any kind where




(a)

work is or has been done or commenced by employees,




(b)

an employer carries on business, or




(c)

anything is taking place or has taken place concerning a matter
referred to the special officer under this Code,


and may inspect any work, material, appliance, machinery, equipment or
thing in it, or interrogate any person in relation to it.






Evidence




110


For the purpose of a hearing, a special officer




(a)

may receive and accept the evidence and information on oath, affidavit
or otherwise that, in the special officer's discretion, the special
officer considers advisable, whether or not admissible as evidence in
a court of law, and




(b)

must determine the special officer's own procedure, but must give an
opportunity to an interested party to present evidence and make
representations.






Frequency of appointment




111


The minister may not appoint a special officer more than twice in
connection with the same dispute or difference.






Form of order




112

(1)


An order of a special officer must be in writing signed by the special
officer.




(2)

The special officer must promptly




(a)

deliver a copy of the special officer's order to the board, the
employer and the trade union, and




(b)

take reasonable steps to communicate the provisions of the special
officer's order to persons bound or affected by it.






Notice of appointment to be sent to board




113


The minister must send to the board a copy of every appointment of a
special officer under section 106.






Other provisions to apply




114


The other provisions in this Part apply to matters arising under this
Division.




Part 9 — Labour Relations Board





Labour Relations Board




115

(1)


The Labour Relations Board is continued consisting of a chair, vice
chairs and as many members equal in number representative of employers
and employees, respectively, as the Lieutenant Governor in Council
considers proper, all of whom are to be appointed by the Lieutenant
Governor in Council after a merit-based process.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1), the chair must be consulted before
the appointment of vice chairs and members.






Application of
Administrative Tribunals Act




115.1


The following provisions of the

Administrative Tribunals Act

apply to the board:




(a)

Part 1
[Interpretation]
;




(b)

Part 2
[Appointments]
;




(c)

Part 3
[Clustering]
;




(d)

section 34 (3) (b) and (4)
[tribunal power to compel witnesses and order disclosure]
;




(e)

section 43
[discretion to refer questions of law to court]
;




(f)

section 46

[notice to Attorney General if constitutional question raised in
application]

;




(g)

section 46.1

[discretion to decline jurisdiction to apply the Human Rights Code]

;




(h)

section 47 (1) (c)
[power to award costs]
;




(i)

section 48
[maintenance of order at hearings]
;




(j)

section 49

[contempt proceeding for uncooperative witness or other person]

;




(k)

section 56
[immunity protection for tribunal and members]
;




(l)

section 57
[time limit for judicial review]
;




(m)

section 58 (1) and (2)
[standard of review with privative clause]
;




(n)

section 59.1
[surveys]
;




(o)

section 59.2
[reporting]
;




(p)

section 60 (1) (g) to (i) and (2)
[power to make regulations]
;




(q)

section 61

[application of Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy
Act]

.






Divisions and officers of the Labour Relations Board




116

(1)


There are to be 2 divisions of the board called the Mediation Division
and the Adjudication Division.




(2)

The chair may designate one or more vice chairs as associate chairs
for either or both of the Mediation and Adjudication Divisions, and
designate another vice chair as a registrar of the board.




(3)

If the associate chair of a division is absent or unable to act, or
the office of an associate chair is vacant, the chair may act as
associate chair or may assign a vice chair to act.




(4)

The chair may change an assignment or designation under this section.






Panels




117

(1)


The chair may establish one or more panels of the board.




(2)

A panel has the power and authority of the board in matters referred
to the panel by the chair or coming before it under rules of the board
made under this Code.




(3)

Two or more panels may proceed with separate matters at the same time.




(4)

The chair may refer a matter that is before the board to a panel or a
matter that is before a panel to the board or another panel.




(5)

A panel of the board consists of




(a)

the chair or a vice chair,




(b)

the chair and 2 or more vice chairs,




(c)

3 or more vice chairs,




(d)

3 or more vice chairs, and members, equal in number, representative of
employers and employees respectively,




(e)

the chair or a vice chair, and one member representative of employees
and one member representative of employers, or




(f)

the chair or a vice chair, and members, equal in number,
representative of employers and employees respectively.




(6)

The chair may terminate an appointment to a panel and may fill any
vacancy on a panel.






Quorum




118

(1)


The board or a panel of the board must not proceed with a matter
unless a quorum is present and remains present throughout the
proceeding.




(2)

A quorum of the board consists of the chair or a vice chair, and
members, equal in number, representative of employers and employees
respectively.




(3)

A quorum of a panel consists of the chair or the vice chair, if
appointed under section 117 (5) (a), or all members of the panel,
including the chair or vice chair.






Proceedings




119

(1)


The chair must preside at proceedings of the board and of all panels
of which the chair is a member, and a vice chair must preside over all
other panels.




(2)

The decision of a majority of the members of the board or of a panel
present at a proceeding is the decision of the board or panel, but if
there is no majority, the decision of the chair or presiding vice
chair governs.






Question of law




120


The chair may establish a panel to which the board or another panel
may refer a question of law respecting the interpretation of this
Code, and its ruling is binding on the board or on the other panel.






Delegation




121

(1)


The chair may exercise any power or perform any duty or function of
the board, an associate chair or member of the board.




(2)

The chair may delegate to the associate chairs, the registrar or one
or more of the other members a power, duty or function of the board or
of the director, except the power under section 128 (2).






Employees of the board




122

(1)


The board may, despite the

Public Service Act

, employ a secretary and other officers and employees it considers
necessary for the purposes of this Code, and may determine their
duties, conditions of employment and remuneration.




(2)

This Code and the

Public Service Labour Relations Act

do not apply to the members of the board or the secretary, or the
officers and employees of the board.




(3)

The chair must designate an employee employed under subsection (1) as
the information officer to advise the public with respect to this Code
and its application to labour relations in British Columbia.






Repealed




123


[Repealed 2004-45-110.]






Display or provision of information




123.1

(1)


The board must make available to the public information about rights
and obligations under this Code.




(2)

The board may direct an employer to display in the workplace, or make
available or provide to employees, information about rights and
obligations under this Code.




(3)

The information displayed, made available or provided under subsection
(2) must be in the form provided or approved by the board.






Evidence




124

(1)


The board may receive and accept such evidence and information on
oath, affidavit or otherwise as in its discretion it considers proper,
whether or not the evidence is admissible in a court of law.




(2)

The board may request and receive a report from a person it appoints
to investigate an application or to investigate and attempt to settle
a dispute under this Code or a collective agreement, and, despite
section 146 (3), the board must disclose the report to the parties.




(3)

Information relating to membership or any record that may disclose
whether a person is or is not a member of a trade union produced in a
proceeding before the board is for the exclusive use of the board and
its representatives.




(4)

Except with the consent of the board, a person must not disclose
whether a person is or is not a member of a trade union.






Summons and discovery of documents




125


On the recommendation of an officer appointed under section 14,
87 or 104 (4) (c), or on its own motion, the board may
summon and enforce the attendance of witnesses and compel them to give
oral or written evidence on oath and to produce the documents and
things the officer or the board considers necessary to a full
investigation and consideration of matters within the board's
jurisdiction in the same manner as a court of record in civil cases.






Practice and procedure




126

(1)


The board must determine its own practice and procedure, but must give
full opportunity to the parties to a proceeding to present evidence
and make submissions.




(2)

The board, subject to the minister's approval, may make rules
governing its practice and procedure and the exercise of its powers
and establish forms it considers advisable.






Offices of the board




127

(1)


The principal office of the board must be at or near Vancouver, and
the board and panels of the board must sit at the places the chair
decides.




(2)

Documents may be filed with the board at its principal office or at
other offices throughout British Columbia designated for that purpose
by the chair.






Timing and publication of decisions




128

(1)


The board must render its decision on a complaint or application




(a)

if a time period has been prescribed by the minister under section
159.1 (a), within the prescribed time period, and




(b)

if no time period has been prescribed, within a reasonable period of
time.




(2)

The chair may, before or after a prescribed time period expires,
extend the time period referred to in subsection (1) (a) for a
specific case




(a)

in the circumstances established under section 159.1 (b), or




(b)

in other circumstances that the chair considers exceptional.




(3)

The board must make all its decisions in proceedings under this Code
available in writing for publication.






Oath of office




129


A member of the board, before acting as a member, must take and sign
before a notary public or commissioner for taking affidavits for
British Columbia, and file with the minister, an oath or affirmation
of office in the following form:



I, __________________, do solemnly swear (affirm) that I will
faithfully, truly and impartially, to the best of my judgment, skill
and ability, execute and perform the office of chair (or vice chair or
member) of the Labour Relations Board, and will not, except in the
discharge of my duties, disclose to any person any of the evidence or
other matter brought before the board.






Repealed




130-131


[Repealed 2003-47-38.]






General guidelines




132

(1)


The board may formulate general guidelines to further the operation of
this Code but the board is not bound by those guidelines in the
exercise of its powers or the performance of its duties.




(2)

In formulating general guidelines the board may request that
submissions be made to it by any person.




(3)

The board must make available in writing for publication all general
guidelines formulated under this section, and their amendments and
revisions.






Hearing of complaint




133

(1)


If, on application or complaint by any interested person, under
section 14, this section or another provision of this Code or
regulations, or on its own motion, the board is satisfied that any
person has contravened this Code, a collective agreement or the
regulations, it may, in its discretion, do one or more of the
following:




(a)

order a person to do any thing for the purpose of complying with this
Code, a collective agreement or the regulations, or to refrain from
doing any act, thing or omission in contravention of this Code, a
collective agreement or the regulations;




(b)

order a person to rectify a contravention of this Code or the
regulations;




(c)

refuse to make an order, despite a contravention of this Code, a
collective agreement or the regulations, if the board believes it is
just and equitable to do so in view of the improper conduct of the
person making the application or complaint;




(d)

except in relation to conduct regulated by Part 5, make an order
setting the monetary value of an injury or loss suffered by a person
as a result of a contravention of this Code, a collective agreement or
the regulations, and directing a person to pay to the person suffering
the injury or loss the amount of that monetary value;




(e)

order an employer to reinstate an employee discharged in contravention
of this Code, a collective agreement or the regulations;




(f)

make another order or proceed in another manner under this Code,
consistent with section 2, that the board considers appropriate.




(2)

If a request is made to the board to exercise its discretion under
section 65 or another provision conferring on the board a
discretion to prohibit, restrict, confine, regulate, control, direct
or require the performance of any act or thing, the board may exercise
its discretion and make an order, impose conditions or proceed in a
manner it considers to be in furtherance of the purposes set out in
section 2.




(3)

If at any time before or during a proceeding the board or a person
appointed by it is able to settle all or part of the differences
between the parties to the proceeding on terms not contrary to this
Code, a collective agreement or the regulations, the board may issue a
consent order setting out the terms of settlement agreed to by the
parties, and this consent order has the same force and effect as an
order under subsection (1).




(4)

If in the board's opinion an application or complaint is without
merit, it may reject the application or complaint at any time.




(5)

If an application or complaint is made under this section or the
minister makes a direction under Part 6 the board may, in its
discretion, after giving each party to the matter an opportunity to be
heard, make an interim order or designation pending a final resolution
of the application or complaint under this section or a designation
under Part 6.




(6)

If the board is satisfied in any proceedings under this Code that a
mistake has been made in naming or not naming a person as a party to
the proceeding the board may direct that the name of the person be
substituted, added or deleted as a party to the proceeding.






Conditions and undertakings




134

(1)


If the board makes or may make a designation, decision or order under
this Code, it may require, at any time before or after or both before
and after the making of the designation, decision or order, that




(a)

certain conditions specified by the board be observed or performed, or




(b)

the applicant or complainant undertake to act or refrain from acting
in a manner specified by the board.




(2)

A breach of an undertaking or a refusal or neglect to observe or
perform a condition specified by the board under subsection (1) is a
contravention of this Code.






Filing order in Supreme Court




135

(1)


The board must on request by any party or may on its own motion file
in a Supreme Court registry at any time a copy of a decision or order
made by the board under this Code or a collective agreement.




(2)

The decision or order must be filed as if it were an order of the
court, and on being filed it is deemed for all purposes except appeal
from it to be an order of the Supreme Court and enforceable as such.




(3)

For the purposes of this section, a designation or direction under
Part 6 is deemed to be a decision or order of the board.






Jurisdiction of board




136

(1)


Except as provided in this Code, the board has and must exercise
exclusive jurisdiction to hear and determine an application or
complaint under this Code and to make an order permitted to be made.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the board has and must exercise
exclusive jurisdiction in respect of




(a)

a matter in respect of which the board has jurisdiction under this
Code, and




(b)

an application for the regulation, restraint or prohibition of a
person or group of persons from




(i)

ceasing or refusing to perform work or to remain in a relationship of
employment,




(ii)

picketing, striking or locking out, or




(iii)

communicating information or opinion in a labour dispute by speech,
writing or other means.






Jurisdiction of court




137

(1)


Except as provided in this section, a court does not have and must not
exercise any jurisdiction in respect of a matter that is, or may be,
the subject of a complaint under section 133 or a matter referred
to in section 136, and, without limitation, a court must not make
an order enjoining or prohibiting an act or thing in respect of them.




(2)

This Code must not be construed to restrict or limit the jurisdiction
of a court, or to deprive a court of jurisdiction to entertain a
proceeding and make an order the court may make in the proper exercise
of its jurisdiction if a wrongful act or omission in respect of which
a proceeding is commenced causes immediate danger of serious injury to
an individual or causes actual obstruction or physical damage to
property.




(3)

Despite this Code or any other Act, a court must not, on an
application made without notice to any other person, order an
injunction to restrain a person from striking, locking out or
picketing, or from doing an act or thing in respect of a strike,
lockout, dispute or difference arising from or relating to a
collective agreement.




(4)

A court of competent jurisdiction may award damages for injury or
losses suffered as a consequence of conduct contravening Part 5
if the board has first determined that there has been a contravention
of Part 5.






Finality of decisions and orders




138


A decision or order of the board under this Code or a collective
agreement on a matter in respect of which the board has jurisdiction
is final and conclusive and is not open to question or review in a
court on any grounds.






Jurisdiction of board to decide certain questions




139


The board has exclusive jurisdiction to decide a question arising
under this Code and on application by any person or on its own motion
may decide for all purposes of this Code any question, including,
without limitation, any question as to whether




(a)

a person is an employer or employee,




(b)

an organization or association is an employers' organization or a
trade union,




(c)

a collective agreement has been entered into,




(d)

a person is or what persons are bound by a collective agreement,




(e)

a person is or what persons are parties to a collective agreement,




(f)

a collective agreement has been entered into on behalf of a person,




(g)

a collective agreement is in full force and effect,




(h)

a person is bargaining collectively or has bargained collectively in
good faith,




(i)

an employee or a group of employees is a unit appropriate for
collective bargaining,




(j)

an employee belongs to a craft or group exercising technical or
professional skills,




(k)

a person is a member in good standing of a trade union,




(l)

a person is included in or excluded from an appropriate bargaining
unit,




(m)

an employer is included in or excluded from an accreditation,




(n)

a person is a dependent contractor,




(o)

an organization of trade unions is a council of trade unions,




(p)

a service is essential for the purposes of Part 6,




(q)

a person is described in section 68 (1),




(r)

a trade union, council of trade unions or employers' organization is
fulfilling a duty of fair representation,




(s)

a site or place is a site or place of business, operations or
employment of an employer,




(t)

a person is an ally,




(u)

a person is a professional,




(v)

a person exercises technical or professional skills, and




(w)

an activity constitutes a strike, lockout or picketing.






General powers of board




140


The board, in relation to a proceeding or matter before it, has power
to




(a)

summon and enforce the attendance of witnesses and compel them to give
oral or written evidence on oath and to produce the documents and
things the board considers necessary to a full investigation and
consideration of a matter within its jurisdiction that is before it in
the proceeding,




(b)

administer oaths and affirmations,




(c)

examine, in accordance with rules of the board, evidence submitted to
it respecting the membership of an employee in a trade union seeking
certification,




(d)

examine documents forming or relating to the constitution or articles
of association of




(i)

a trade union seeking certification,




(ii)

a trade union forming part of a council of trade unions seeking
certification, or




(iii)

an employers' organization seeking accreditation,




(e)

examine records and make inquiries it considers necessary,




(f)

require an employer to post and keep posted in appropriate places a
notice the board considers necessary to bring to the attention of
employees a matter relating to the proceeding,




(g)

enter during regular working hours any land, ship, vessel, vehicle,
aircraft or other means of conveyance or transport, factory, workshop
or place of any kind where




(i)

work is or has been done or commenced by employees,




(ii)

an employer carries on business, or




(iii)

anything is taking place or has taken place concerning a matter
referred to it under this Code,


and may inspect any work, material, appliance, machinery, equipment or
thing in it and interrogate any person in relation to it,




(g.1)

order an employer to provide a list of employees in the proposed
bargaining unit to the board within the time specified by the board,




(h)

order that




(i)

a representation vote be taken, in accordance with Part 3 and the
regulations, among employees affected by the proceeding, before or
after a hearing the board may conduct in respect of the proceeding,
and




(ii)

ballots cast in the vote be sealed in ballot boxes and not counted
until the parties to the proceeding have been given an opportunity to
be heard by the board,




(i)

enter an employer's premises to conduct representation votes during
working hours,




(j)

authorize a person to do anything the board may do under paragraphs
(b) to (g) or paragraph (i) and report to the board,




(k)

adjourn or postpone the proceeding,




(l)

shorten or lengthen the time for instituting the proceeding or for
doing an act, filing a document or presenting evidence in the
proceeding,




(m)

amend or permit amendment of a document filed in the proceeding, and




(n)

add a party to the proceeding at any stage.






Reconsideration of decisions




141

(1)


On application by any party affected by a decision of the board, the
board may grant leave to that party to apply for reconsideration of
the decision.




(2)

Leave to apply for reconsideration of a decision of the board may be
granted if the party applying for leave satisfies the board that




(a)

evidence not available at the time of the original decision has become
available, or




(b)

the decision of the board is inconsistent with the principles
expressed or implied in this Code or in any other Act dealing with
labour relations.




(3)

Leave to apply for reconsideration of a decision of the board under
this section may be granted only once in respect of that decision.




(4)

Subsection (1) does not apply to a decision of the board to grant or
deny leave under subsection (2) or to a decision made by the board on
reconsideration.




(5)

An application under subsection (1) must be made within 15 days of the
publication of the reasons for the decision that is the subject of the
application.




(6)

If an application for leave is made under subsection (1), another
party affected by the decision may apply for leave under that
subsection within




(a)

the period referred to in subsection (5), or




(b)

5 days of receiving the application,

whichever is longer.



(7)

On reconsideration under this section the board may vary or cancel the
decision that is the subject of reconsideration or may remit the
matter to the original panel.




(8)

An application under this section must be made in accordance with the
regulations.






Variation and continuation of certification or accreditation




142


The board, on application by any party or on its own motion, may vary
or cancel the certification of a trade union or the accreditation of
an employers' organization.






Declaratory opinion




143


The board, on application by an employer or trade union, or on its own
motion, may give a declaratory opinion on a matter arising under this
Code if it considers it appropriate to do so.




Part 10 — Miscellaneous





Powers of minister




144


For the purpose of obtaining information to which the minister is
entitled under this Code, the minister or a person designated by the
minister has the powers, privileges and protection of a commission
under sections 22 (1), 23 (a), (b) and (d) and 32 of the

Public Inquiry Act

.






Power to enter and inspect




145


The minister or a person designated by the minister may, for the
purposes of this Code, enter during regular working hours any land,
ship, vessel, vehicle, aircraft or other means of conveyance or
transport, factory, workshop or place of any kind where




(a)

work is or has been done or commenced by employees,




(b)

an employer carries on business, or




(c)

anything is taking place or has taken place concerning a matter
referred to the minister under this Code,


and may inspect any work, material, appliance, machinery, equipment or
thing in it, or interrogate any person in relation to it.






Power to compel persons to answer questions and order disclosure




145.1

(1)


For the purposes of carrying out duties under this Code, a special
mediator appointed under section 76, an industrial inquiry commission
appointed under section 79 or a special officer may make an order
requiring a person to do either or both of the following:




(a)

attend, in person or by electronic means, before the special mediator,
industrial inquiry commission or special officer, as applicable, to
answer questions on oath or affirmation, or in any other manner;




(b)

produce for the special mediator, industrial inquiry commission or
special officer, as applicable, a record or thing in the person's
possession or control.




(2)

The special mediator, industrial inquiry commission or special officer
may apply to the Supreme Court for an order




(a)

directing a person to comply with an order made under subsection (1),
or




(b)

directing any directors and officers of a person to cause the person
to comply with an order made under subsection (1).






Maintenance of order at hearings




145.2

(1)


At an oral hearing, a special mediator appointed under section 76, an
industrial inquiry commission appointed under section 79 or a special
officer may make orders or give directions as necessary for the
maintenance of order at the hearing, and, if any person disobeys or
fails to comply with any order or direction, the special mediator,
industrial inquiry commission or special officer who made the order or
gave the direction may call on the assistance of any peace officer to
enforce the order or direction.




(2)

A peace officer called on under subsection (1) may take any action
that is necessary to enforce the order or direction and may use such
force as is reasonably required for that purpose.




(3)

Without limiting subsection (1), the special mediator, industrial
inquiry commission or special officer, by order, may




(a)

impose restrictions on a person's continued participation in or
attendance at a hearing, and




(b)

exclude a person from further participation in or attendance at a
hearing until the special mediator, industrial inquiry commission or
special officer, as applicable, orders otherwise.






Contempt proceeding for uncooperative person




145.3

(1)


The failure or refusal of a person subject to an order under section
145.1 to do any of the following makes the person, on application to
the Supreme Court by the special mediator, industrial inquiry
commission or special officer referred to in that section, liable to
be committed for contempt as if in breach of an order or judgment of
the Supreme Court:




(a)

attend before the special mediator, industrial inquiry commission or
special officer;




(b)

take an oath or make an affirmation;




(c)

answer questions;




(d)

produce records or things in the person's possession or control.




(2)

The failure or refusal of a person subject to an order or direction
under section 145.2 to comply with the order or direction makes the
person, on application to the Supreme Court by the special mediator,
industrial inquiry commission or special officer referred to in that
section, liable to be committed for contempt as if in breach of an
order or judgment of the Supreme Court.




(3)

Subsections (1) and (2) do not limit the conduct for which a finding
of contempt may be made by the Supreme Court.






Immunity protection




145.4

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), no legal proceeding for damages lies or may
be commenced or maintained against the special mediator, the
industrial inquiry commission, a member of the industrial inquiry
commission or the special officer referred to in section 145.1, or a
person acting on behalf of or under the direction of any of these,
because of anything done or omitted




(a)

in the performance or intended performance of any duty under this
Code, or




(b)

in the exercise or intended exercise of any power under this Code.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply to a person referred to in that
subsection in relation to anything done or omitted by that person in
bad faith.






Information confidential




146

(1)


The minister may receive and hold in confidence a proposal made by a
party for settlement of a dispute or difference.




(2)

If information relates to the business or affairs of any person,
whether or not a party to a dispute, difference or other reference,
the minister, if the minister believes disclosure of the information
would be prejudicial to the person, may direct that the information
must not be made public or that it be made public in the manner the
minister directs.




(3)

Information obtained for the purpose of this Code in the course of
their duties by a member of the board, an industrial inquiry
commission or other tribunal under this Code, a special officer, a
mediator or other person appointed under this Code, an employee of any
of them or an employee under the administration of the minister is not
open to inspection by a person or a court, and the member, special
officer, mediator or other person appointed under this Code or
employee must not be required by a court or tribunal to give evidence
relative to it.






Payment of members of tribunals




147


A person appointed by the minister or the chair as a member of an
industrial inquiry commission, committee of special advisors or other
tribunal established under this Code, or as a special officer, special
mediator or fact finder must be reimbursed for reasonable travelling
and out of pocket expenses incurred by the person, and may be paid
remuneration the minister determines for each day's attendance in
carrying out the person's duties under this Code.






Execution of documents




148


For the purposes of this Code, an application to the minister, a
notice requiring an employer and a trade union to negotiate or a
collective agreement may be signed if it is made, given or entered
into




(a)

by an employer who is an individual, by that employer, or if several
individuals are joint employers, by a majority of them,




(b)

if the employers are represented by an employers' organization
authorized by the employers, by the president and secretary of the
employers' organization or any 2 of its officers or by a person
authorized by resolution passed at a meeting of the employers'
organization,




(c)

by a corporation, by one of its authorized managers or by one or more
of its principal executive officers, and




(d)

by a trade union, by its president and secretary, by any 2 of its
officers or by a person authorized by resolution passed at a meeting
of the trade union.






Board may require returns




149

(1)


The board may direct a trade union or employers' organization that is
a party to an application for certification or to an existing
collective agreement to file with the board




(a)

a signed statement of its president, secretary or another official
stating the names and addresses of its officers, and




(b)

a copy of its constitution and bylaws,


and the trade union or employers' organization must comply with the
direction within the time specified by the board.




(2)

The board may direct an employer that is a party to an application for
certification or to an existing collective agreement to file with the
board




(a)

a signed statement of the president, secretary or another official
stating the names and addresses of any of the employer's directors and
principal administrative officers, and




(b)

a description of the nature of the employer's business and the
location of the employer's business or operations.






Trusteeship over local unions




150

(1)


A provincial, national or international trade union that assumes
supervision or control over a subordinate trade union, whereby the
autonomy of the subordinate trade union under the constitution or
bylaws of the provincial, national or international trade union is
suspended, must, within 60 days after it has assumed supervision
or control over the subordinate trade union, file with the board a
signed statement of its principal officers, setting out the terms
under which supervision or control is to be exercised and it must, on
the direction of the board, file such additional information
concerning such supervision and control as the chair requires.




(2)

If a provincial, national or international trade union has assumed
supervision or control over a subordinate trade union, that
supervision or control must not continue for more than 12 months
from the date of the assumption without the consent of the board.






Financial statements




151

(1)


A trade union and an employers' organization must make available
without charge to each of its members, before June 1 in each
year, a copy of the audited financial statement of its affairs to the
end of the last fiscal year, signed by its president and treasurer or
corresponding principal officers.




(2)

The financial statement must contain information in sufficient detail
to disclose accurately the financial condition and operation of the
trade union or employers' organization for its preceding fiscal year.




(3)

The board, on the complaint of a member that the trade union or
employers' organization has failed to comply with subsection (1), may
order the trade union or employers' organization to file with the
board, in the time set out in the order, a statement in a form and
with particulars the board determines.




(4)

The board may order a trade union or employers' organization to
furnish a copy of a statement filed under subsection (3) to the
members of the trade union or employers' organization that the board
in its discretion directs, and the trade union or employers'
organization must comply with the order.






Mailed notice presumed received




152

(1)


For the purpose of this Code or a proceeding under it, a notice or
other communication sent by mail is presumed to have been received by
the addressee in the ordinary course of mail unless the contrary is
proved.




(2)

Every party to a dispute must give written notice to the minister, the
board and the other parties of the address of its principal or other
office in British Columbia to which it wishes notices to be sent.






Service of documents




153


A notice, order or other paper or document required to be served for
the purpose of this Code may be served by delivering it to or at the
residence of the person on whom it is to be served or, if that person
is an employer or a trade union, by delivering it or a true copy of it
to the employer's agent or to the trade union's place of business
during normal business hours.






Legal entity




154


Every trade union and every employers' organization is a legal entity
for the purposes of this Code.






Evidentiary effect of documents




155


A document purporting to contain or to be a copy of a regulation,
rule, direction, designation, order or other matter of the minister or
the board, and purporting to be signed by the minister or a member of
the board, must be accepted by a court as proof of the regulation,
rule, direction, order or other matter of which it purports to contain
or be a copy without proof of the signature of the minister or member
of the board or of the appointment of the minister or member.






Technicalities not to invalidate proceedings




156


A proceeding under this Code or a collective agreement must not be
considered invalid because of a defect in form, a technical
irregularity or an error of procedure that does not result in a denial
of natural justice, and the board, arbitration board, industrial
inquiry commission, special officer, court or other tribunal may
relieve against those defects, irregularities or errors of procedure
on just and reasonable terms.






Reports




157

(1)


The board may report to the minister and must report to the minister
on the minister's request, and the minister may authorize the board to
publish its report.




(2)

The board must, on or before March 1 each year, make a report to the
minister for the preceding calendar year, setting out briefly




(a)

all applications to the board under this Code and summaries of the
board's findings on them,




(b)

other matters the board considers to be of public interest in the
discharge of its duties under this Code, and




(c)

other information the minister directs.




(3)

The report referred to in subsection (2) must be laid before the
Legislative Assembly as soon as is practicable.






Penalty




158


A person who refuses or neglects to observe or carry out an order made
under this Code is liable on conviction,




(a)

if an individual, to a fine not exceeding $5 000, or




(b)

if a corporation, trade union or employers' organization, to a fine
not exceeding $50 000.






Offence




158.1

(1)


A person who knowingly provides information that is false or
misleading with respect to a material fact contained in a signed
statement under section 149 or 150 commits an offence.




(2)

A person who produces or relies upon a signed statement given by
another person under section 149 or 150 while knowing the signed
statement to be false or misleading with respect to a material fact
contained in the signed statement commits an offence.






Lieutenant Governor in Council's power to make regulations




159

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
section 41 of the

Interpretation Act

.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations as follows:




(a)

respecting applications for certification under Part 3;




(b)

respecting voting under this Code;




(b.1)

respecting presentations by employers and trade unions related to
votes under this Code;




(c)

respecting application for reconsideration under section 141;




(d)

prescribing requirements for evidence of membership in good standing
in a trade union;




(e)

establishing and authorizing fees to be payable for any services
provided by the board or its staff under this Code;




(f)

prescribing services or services in a particular sector for the
purposes of the definition of "contract for services" in section 35.




(3)

A regulation made by the Lieutenant Governor in Council with respect
to voting under this Code may, without limitation,




(a)

require employers to supply information and records and to allow the
use of facilities owned by the employer, and




(b)

prescribe, with respect to ballots used in votes on the question of
whether to strike or on the question of whether to lock out, the form
in which the question on the ballots is to be worded.






Minister's power to make regulations




159.1


The minister may make regulations




(a)

prescribing time periods for the purposes of section 128 (1) (a),
including prescribing different time periods for different classes of
complaints or applications, which classes may be based on any of the
following:




(i)

the section of the Code under which a complaint or application is
made;




(ii)

the date that a complaint or application is received by the board;




(iii)

any other basis the minister considers reasonable, and




(b)

establishing, for the purposes of section 128 (2) (a), the
circumstances in which the chair may extend a time period.




Part 11 — Transitional Provision





Transitional




160


Despite the repeal of the
Industrial Relations Act
, all regulations, certifications, accreditations, orders or
directions of the Lieutenant Governor in Council, the minister, the
Industrial Relations Council or another official made under the
Industrial Relations Act
remain in full force and effect until repealed, revoked, amended or
varied under this Code.




