







B.C. Reg. 37/2003


British Columbia Securities Commission



Deposited February 6, 2003


effective Part 1 and sections 7.1 and 7.2 effective

February 6, 2003; remainder effective March 31, 2003






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to Point in Time




Securities Act



National Instrument 31-102

National Registration Database



[includes amendments up to B.C. Reg. 210/2013, December 2, 2013]




Part 1 — Definitions and Interpretation





Definitions




1.1


In this Instrument:



"authorized firm representative"

or
"AFR"
means, for a firm filer, an individual with his or her own NRD user ID
and who is authorized by the firm filer to submit information in NRD
format for that firm filer and individual filers with respect to whom
the firm filer is the sponsoring firm;


"chief AFR"
means, for a firm filer, an individual who is an AFR and has accepted
an appointment as a chief AFR by the firm filer;


"firm filer"
means a person or company that is required under securities
legislation to make an NRD submission in accordance with this
Instrument and that is registered as, or has applied for registration
as, a dealer, adviser, or investment fund manager;



"individual filer"

means an individual that is required under securities legislation to
make an NRD submission in accordance with this Instrument;


"NI 33-109"
means National Instrument 33-109
Registration Information
;



"National Registration Database"

or
"NRD"
means the online electronic database of registration information
regarding NRD filers and includes the computer system providing for
the transmission, receipt, review and dissemination of that
registration information by electronic means;



"NRD account"

means an account with a member of the Canadian Payments Association
from which fees may be paid with respect to NRD by electronic
pre-authorized debit;



"NRD administrator"

means the Alberta Securities Commission or a successor appointed by
the securities regulatory authority to operate NRD;


"NRD filer"
means an individual filer or a firm filer;


"NRD format"
means the electronic format for submitting information through the NRD
website;


"NRD number"
means the unique number first generated by NRD to identify an NRD
filer or a business location;



"NRD submission"

means information that is submitted under securities legislation or
securities directions in NRD format, or the act of submitting
information under securities legislation or securities directions in
NRD format, as the context requires;



"NRD website"

means the website operated by the NRD administrator for the NRD
submissions.


[am. B.C. Regs. 118/2007, Sch. A, ss. 2 and 3; 226/2009, Sch. L, s. 1;
210/2013, s. (c) (i).]






Interpretation




1.2


Terms defined in NI 33-109 and used in this Instrument have the
respective meanings ascribed to those terms in NI 33-109.

[am. B.C. Reg. 118/2007, Sch. A, s. 4.]



Part 2 — Information to Be Submitted in NRD Format





Registration information




2.1


A person or company that is required to submit any of the following to
the securities regulatory authority or regulator must make the
submission in NRD format:



1. Form 33-109F1;

2. Form 33-109F2;
3. Form 33-109F3;
4. Form 33-109F4;

5. Form 33-109F5 to report a change to any information previously
submitted in respect of Form 33-109F4;

6. Form 33-109F7.
[am. B.C. Reg. 226/2009, Sch. L, s. 2.]



Part 3 — Making NRD Submissions





NRD submissions




3.1

(1)


An NRD filer that is required under securities legislation to submit
information in NRD format must make that NRD submission




(a)

through the NRD website,




(b)

using the NRD number of the NRD filer or business location, and




(c)

in accordance with this Instrument.




(2)

A requirement in securities legislation relating to the format in
which a document or other information to be submitted must be printed,
or specifying the number of copies of a document that must be
submitted, does not apply to an NRD submission required to be made in
accordance with this Instrument.




(3)

An NRD filer making an NRD submission must make the NRD submission
through an AFR.


[am. B.C. Regs. 118/2007, Sch. A, s. 5; 226/2009, Sch. L, s. 3.]






Ongoing firm filer requirements




3.2


A firm filer must




(a)

be enrolled with the NRD administrator to use NRD;




(b)

have one and no more than one chief AFR enrolled with the NRD
administrator;




(c)

maintain one and no more than one NRD account;




(d)

notify the NRD administrator of the appointment of a chief AFR within
7 days of the appointment;




(e)

notify the NRD administrator of any change in the name of the firm's
chief AFR within 7 days of the change;




(f)

submit any change in the name of an AFR, other than the firm's chief
AFR, in NRD format within 7 days of the change; and




(g)

submit any change in the phone number, fax number or email address of
the chief AFR in NRD format within 7 days of the change.

[am. B.C. Reg. 226/2009, Sch. L, s. 4.]



Part 4 — Payment of Fees through NRD





Payment of submission fees




4.1

(1)


If a fee is required with respect to an NRD submission, a firm filer
must pay the required fee by electronic pre-authorized debit through
NRD.




(2)

A payment under subsection (1) must be made from the firm filer's NRD
account.






Payment of annual registration fees




4.2

(1)


If an NRD filer is required to pay an annual registration fee, the NRD
filer must pay the required fee by electronic pre-authorized debit
through NRD.




(2)

A payment under subsection (1) must be made from the NRD filer's NRD
account.

[am. B.C. Reg. 226/2009, Sch. L, s. 5 (a) and (b).]





Payment of NRD user fees — annual




4.3

(1)


If a firm filer is required to pay an annual NRD user fee, the firm
filer must pay the required fee by electronic pre-authorized debit
through NRD.




(2)

A payment under subsection (1) must be made from the firm filer's NRD
account.






Payment of late filing fees




4.4

(1)


If a firm filer is required to pay late filing fees because of an
activity that creates or relates to an NRD submission, the firm filer
must pay the required fee by electronic pre-authorized debit through
NRD.




(2)

A payment under subsection (1) must be made from the firm filer's NRD
account.

[en. B.C. Reg. 226/2009, Sch. L, s. 5 (c).]





Exemption for registrants not resident in Canada




4.5


Sections 3.2 (c), 4.1, 4.2, 4.3 and 4.4 do not apply to a registered
firm that




(a)

has no business office in a jurisdiction of Canada,




(b)

does not have an account with a member of the Canadian Payments
Association,




(c)

is not an affiliate of a registered firm resident in a jurisdiction of
Canada,




(d)

pays the fees referred to in sections 4.1, 4.2 and 4.4 within 14 days
of the date the payment is due,




(e)

pays the following fees within 14 days of the date the payment is due
by submitting a cheque, payable to the Ontario Securities Commission
in Canadian currency, to CSA Service Desk, Attn: NRD Administrator, 12
Millennium Blvd, Suite 210, Moncton, NB, E1C 0M3:




(i)

NRD user fees required in respect of an NRD submission;




(ii)

annual NRD user fees, and




(f)

pays any fee referred to in sections 4.1, 4.2 and 4.4, other than an
NRD user fee, by submitting a cheque in Canadian funds to the
securities regulatory authority or regulator in the local jurisdiction
within 14 days of the date the payment is due.


[en. B.C. Reg. 226/2009, Sch. L, s. 5 (c); am. B.C. Reg. 210/2013, s.
(c) (ii).]




Part 5 — Temporary Hardship Exemption





Temporary hardship exemption




5.1

(1)


If unanticipated technical difficulties prevent an NRD filer from
making an NRD submission within the time required under securities
legislation, the NRD filer is exempt from the requirement to make the
submission within the required time period, if the NRD filer makes the
submission other than through the NRD website or in NRD format no
later than 7 days after the day on which the information was required
to be submitted.




(2)

If unanticipated technical difficulties prevent an individual filer
from submitting an application in NRD format, the individual filer may
submit the application other than through the NRD website.




(3)

For the purpose of subsections (1) and (2), the NRD filer may make a
notification or application other than through the NRD website by
submitting it to the principal regulator.




(4)

Despite subsection (3), for the purpose of an application submitted
under subsection (2) which includes Ontario, the individual filer may
make the application by submitting it to




(a)

the principal regulator, if the principal jurisdiction is Ontario, or




(b)

the principal regulator and the regulator in Ontario.




(5)

If an NRD filer makes a submission other than through the NRD website
under this section, the NRD filer must include the following legend in
capital letters at the top of the first page of the submission:

IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION 5.1 OF NATIONAL INSTRUMENT 31-102
NATIONAL REGISTRATION DATABASE
(NRD), THIS [SPECIFY DOCUMENT] IS BEING SUBMITTED OTHER THAN THROUGH
THE NRD WEBSITE UNDER A TEMPORARY HARDSHIP EXEMPTION.




(6)

If an NRD filer makes a submission other than through the NRD website
under this section, the NRD filer must resubmit the information in NRD
format as soon as practicable and in any event within 14 days after
the unanticipated technical difficulties have been resolved.

[en. B.C. Reg. 226/2009, Sch. L, s. 6.]



Part 6 — Exemption





Exemption




6.1

(1)


The regulator or the securities regulatory authority may grant an
exemption from this Instrument, in whole or in part, subject to such
conditions or restrictions as may be imposed in the exemption.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), in Ontario only the regulator may grant such
an exemption.




(3)

Except in Ontario, an exemption referred to in subsection (1) is
granted under the statute referred to in Appendix B of National
Instrument 14-101
Definitions
opposite the name of the local jurisdiction.

[am. B.C. Reg. 118/2007, Sch. A, s. 7.]



Part 7

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 226/2009, Sch. L, s. 7.]


Part 8

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 118/2007, Sch. A, s. 9.]

[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Securities Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 418, section 184]



