







B.C. Reg. 131/98

Securities Commission


Deposited April 20, 1998






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Securities Act



National Instrument 81-105
Mutual Fund Sales Practices


[Last amended June 1, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 343/2021]



Part 1 — Definitions, Interpretation and Application





Definitions




1.1


In this Instrument:



"direct costs"

means reasonable, out-of-pocket costs and expenses directly
attributable to




(a)

the production and presentation of a sales communication referred to
in Part 5, or




(b)

the presentation and organization of a conference or seminar referred
to in Part 5, other than any travel, accommodation or personal
incidental expenses associated with the attendance of an individual at
the conference or seminar;



"equity interest"

means, in relation to an issuer,




(a)

if the issuer is a reporting issuer in any jurisdiction and its
securities are listed on a Canadian stock exchange, the direct or
indirect ownership of securities representing more than ten percent of
any class of voting securities, equity securities or partnership units
of the issuer, or




(b)

for all other issuers, the direct or indirect ownership of a voting
security, equity security or partnership unit of the issuer;



"equity security"

means a security of an issuer that carries a residual right to
participate in the earnings of the issuer and, upon the liquidation or
winding up of the issuer, in the distribution of its assets;


"IDA"
means the Investment Dealers Association of Canada;


"IFIC"
means The Investment Funds Institute of Canada;



"member of the organization"

means, for a mutual fund




(a)

the manager of the mutual fund,




(b)

the principal distributor of the mutual fund,




(c)

the portfolio adviser of the mutual fund,




(d)

an associate or affiliate of any of the persons or companies referred
to in paragraph (a), (b) or (c), or




(e)

a person or company that is organized by a member of the organization
of the mutual fund as a vehicle to fund payment of commissions to
participating dealers and that has a right to arrange for the
distribution of the securities of the mutual fund;



"mutual fund family"

means two or more mutual funds that have




(a)

the same manager, or




(b)

managers that are affiliates of each other; and



"representative"

means, for a participating dealer,




(a)

a partner, director, officer or employee of the participating dealer,




(b)

an individual who trades securities on behalf of the participating
dealer, whether or not the individual is employed by the dealer, and




(c)

any company through which a person referred to in paragraph (a) or (b)
carries on activities in connection with services provided to the
participating dealer;



"suitability determination"

means a determination or other assessment required to be made under
any of the following:




(a)

section 13.3 of National Instrument 31-103

Registration Requirements, Exemptions and Ongoing Registrant
Obligations

;




(b)

the rules of the Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada
named in Appendix G of National Instrument 31-103

Registration Requirements, Exemptions and Ongoing Registrant
Obligations

that are in effect, as amended from time to time, and that correspond
to section 13.3 of National Instrument 31-103

Registration Requirements, Exemptions and Ongoing Registrant
Obligations

;




(c)

a rule or policy of the Mutual Fund Dealers Association of Canada
named in Appendix H of National Instrument 31-103

Registration Requirements, Exemptions and Ongoing Registrant
Obligations

that are in effect, as amended from time to time, and that correspond
to section 13.3 of National Instrument 31-103

Registration Requirements, Exemptions and Ongoing Registrant
Obligations

.


[am. B.C. Regs. 226/2009, Sch. J, s. 1; 343/2021, Sch. E and F, s. 1.]






Interpretation




1.2


Terms defined in National Instrument 81-102
Investment Funds
and used in this Instrument have the respective meanings ascribed to
them in National Instrument 81-102
Investment Funds
.


[en. B.C. Reg. 226/2009, Sch. J, s. 2; am. B.C. Reg. 176/2014, Sch. F,
s. 1 (i).]






Application




1.3


This Instrument applies to




(a)

a distribution of securities of a mutual fund that offers or has
offered securities under a prospectus or simplified prospectus for so
long as the mutual fund remains a reporting issuer; and




(b)

a person or company in respect of activities pertaining to a mutual
fund referred to in paragraph (a).




Part 2 — General





Restrictions on payments or provision of benefits




2.1

(1)


No member of the organization of a mutual fund and no mutual fund
shall, in connection with the distribution of securities of the mutual
fund




(a)

make a payment of money to a participating dealer or a representative
of a participating dealer;




(b)

provide a non-monetary benefit to a participating dealer or a
representative of a participating dealer; or




(c)

pay for or make reimbursement of a cost or expense incurred or to be
incurred by a participating dealer or a representative of a
participating dealer.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), a member of the organization of a mutual fund
may




(a)

make a payment of money or provide a non-monetary benefit to a
participating dealer, or pay for or make reimbursement of a cost or
expense incurred or to be incurred by a participating dealer or its
representatives, if permitted by Part 3 or 5; and




(b)

provide a non-monetary benefit to a representative of a participating
dealer, if permitted by Part 5.




(3)

A member of the organization of a mutual fund shall not, and shall not
represent that it may, make a payment, provide a non-monetary benefit
or pay for or make reimbursement of a cost or expense otherwise
permitted by subsection (2) that is conditional on




(a)

the sale of a particular amount or value of securities of one or more
mutual funds by a participating dealer or a representative;




(b)

a particular amount or value of securities of one or more mutual funds
being held in accounts of clients of a participating dealer or a
representative.






Restrictions on solicitation and acceptance of payments or benefits




2.2

(1)


No participating dealer and no representative of a participating
dealer shall solicit or accept from a mutual fund or a member of the
organization of the mutual fund, in connection with the distribution
of securities of the mutual fund, the payment of money, the provision
of a non-monetary benefit or payment or reimbursement for a cost or
expense incurred or to be incurred by the participating dealer or
representatives of the participating dealer.




(2)

Despite subsection (1),




(a)

a participating dealer may solicit and accept a payment of money,
provision of a non-monetary benefit or payment or reimbursement for a
cost or expense incurred or to be incurred by it or its
representatives from a member of the organization of the mutual fund,
if the member is permitted by Part 3 or 5 to make the payment,
provide the benefit or make the payment or reimbursement; and




(b)

a representative of a participating dealer may accept the provision of
a non-monetary benefit from a member of the organization of the mutual
fund, if the member is permitted by Part 5 to provide the
benefit.




(3)

Despite subsection (2), a participating dealer may not solicit or
accept a payment of a trailing commission from a member of the
organization of the mutual fund, in connection with securities of the
mutual fund held in an account of a client of the participating
dealer, if the participating dealer was not required to make a
suitability determination in respect of the client in connection with
those securities.

[am. B.C. Reg. 343/2021, Sch. F, s. 2.]





Application of instrument to some participating dealers or
representatives




2.3

(1)


Nothing in this Instrument prohibits a person or company that is both
a member of the organization of a mutual fund and a participating
dealer of a mutual fund in a different mutual fund family from
undertaking any activity, if




(a)

the activity is undertaken in the person or company's capacity as a
participating dealer of the mutual fund of which it is a participating
dealer, and not in its capacity as a member of the organization of the
mutual fund of which it is a member; and




(b)

a participating dealer is not prohibited by this Instrument from
undertaking that activity.




(2)

Nothing in this Instrument prohibits a representative of a
participating dealer that is also a member of the organization of a
mutual fund from soliciting or accepting any payment, non-monetary
benefit or reimbursement otherwise permitted by this Instrument from
the participating dealer, if the payment, provision of the
non-monetary benefit or reimbursement is made in the participating
dealer's capacity as a participating dealer and not in its capacity as
a member of the organization of a mutual fund.




Part 3 — Permitted Compensation





Repealed




3.1


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 343/2021, Sch. F, s. 3.]






Trailing commissions




3.2

(1)


A member of the organization of a mutual fund may pay to a
participating dealer a trailing commission if




(a)

the obligation to make the payment arises after the time of a trade in
securities of the mutual fund by a client of the participating dealer;




(a.1)

the amount of the trailing commission is based on the value of
securities of the mutual fund held in an account of the client as at a
particular time or during a particular period;




(b)

the prospectus or simplified prospectus of the mutual fund discloses
the range of rates of trailing commissions that may be paid and the
method of calculation and relevant times or time periods used in
determining the amount of those trailing commissions;




(c)

the method and time of calculation of the trailing commission and the
relevant times or time periods used in determining the amount of the
trailing commission are the same for all participating dealers of the
mutual fund; and




(d)

the rate of the trailing commission does not increase




(i)

based on increases in the amount or value of securities of the mutual
fund sold, or of mutual funds in the same mutual fund family as the
mutual fund sold, or of any or all of the foregoing,




(ii)

based on increases in the amount or value of securities of the mutual
fund, or of mutual funds in the same mutual fund family as the mutual
fund, or of any or all of the foregoing, held in accounts of clients
of the participating dealer, or




(iii)

for a particular period of the year in which the trailing commission
is paid or earned.




(2)

A member of the organization of a mutual fund may establish policies
and practices concerning the timing of payments of trailing
commissions so long as all trailing commissions are paid within one
year from the date earned.




(3)

Despite subsection (1), a member of the organization of a mutual fund
may decline to pay a trailing commission to a participating dealer in
connection with securities of the mutual fund held in the accounts of
clients of the participating dealer if




(a)

the securities in respect of which no trailing commission is paid were
acquired by those clients before the date that this Instrument came
into force;




(b)

the amount of securities held in the accounts of those clients is
below a threshold specified in the policy referred to in paragraph
(c); and




(c)

the non-payment of the trailing commission is in conformity with a
policy of the member of the organization of the mutual fund that was
in place and was followed on July 1, 1997.




(4)

Despite subsection (1), no member of the organization of a mutual fund
may pay a trailing commission to a participating dealer in connection
with securities of the mutual fund held in an account of a client of
the participating dealer if the member knows or ought reasonably to
know that the participating dealer was not required to make a
suitability determination in respect of the client in connection with
those securities.

[am. B.C. Reg. 343/2021, Sch. F, s. 4.]



Part 4 — Internal Dealer Incentive Practices





Participating dealers' practices




4.1

(1)


No participating dealer shall provide an incentive to any of its
representatives to recommend mutual funds of one mutual fund family
over mutual funds of another mutual fund family.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), the compensation paid to a representative of a
participating dealer by the participating dealer may reflect
commissions received by the participating dealer from members of the
organizations of mutual funds, so long as the compensation paid to a
representative for the securities of a mutual fund sold or held, as a
percentage of the commission paid to the participating dealer, is the
same for all mutual fund families.






Principal distributors' practices




4.2

(1)


A principal distributor of a mutual fund that is also a participating
dealer of another mutual fund shall not provide an incentive for any
of its representatives to recommend a mutual fund of which it is a
principal distributor over a mutual fund of which it is a
participating dealer.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), the compensation paid to a representative of a
principal distributor by the principal distributor may reflect
commissions received by the principal distributor from members of the
organization of which it is a member and members of organizations of
other mutual funds if




(a)

the compensation paid to a representative for the securities of a
mutual fund sold or held, as a percentage of the commission paid to
the principal distributor, is the same for all mutual fund families,
including the mutual fund family of the principal distributor; and




(b)

the commissions paid to the principal distributor in connection with
the distribution of securities of a mutual fund of which it is a
principal distributor are not in excess of the commissions provided to
any participating dealer in connection with the distribution of those
securities.




Part 5 — Marketing and Educational Practices





Cooperative marketing practices




5.1


A member of the organization of a mutual fund may pay, to a
participating dealer, direct costs incurred by the participating
dealer relating to a sales communication, investor conference or
investor seminar prepared or presented by the participating dealer, if




(a)

the primary purpose of the sales communication, investor conference or
investor seminar is to promote, or provide educational information
concerning, the mutual fund, the mutual fund family of which the
mutual fund is a member or mutual funds generally;




(b)

in the case of an investor conference or investor seminar, the
conference or seminar is presented by the participating dealer to
investors or potential investors of the mutual fund, another mutual
fund in the same mutual fund family, or of mutual funds generally;




(c)

the participating dealer provides invoices for, or receipts evidencing
payment of, the direct costs to be paid by a member of the
organization of the mutual fund;




(d)

the aggregate direct costs of the sales communication, investor
conference or investor seminar paid by all members of organizations of
mutual funds do not exceed 50 percent of the total direct costs
incurred by the participating dealer; and




(e)

the sales communication discloses, or persons attending the investor
conference or investor seminar are informed in writing of, the
identity of all parties paying for a portion of the costs of the sales
communication, investor conference or investor seminar.






Mutual fund sponsored conferences




5.2


A member of the organization of a mutual fund may provide a
non-monetary benefit to a representative of a participating dealer by
allowing him or her to attend a conference or seminar organized and
presented by members of the organization of the mutual fund, if




(a)

the primary purpose of the conference or seminar is the provision of
educational information about financial planning, investing in
securities, mutual fund industry matters, the mutual fund, the mutual
fund family of which the mutual fund is a member or mutual funds
generally;




(b)

the selection of the representatives of the participating dealer to
attend the conference or seminar is made exclusively by the
participating dealer, uninfluenced by any member of the organization
of the mutual fund;




(c)

the conference or seminar is held in




(i)

Canada,




(ii)

the continental United States of America, or




(iii)

a location where a portfolio adviser of the mutual fund carries on
business, if the primary purpose of the conference or seminar is the
provision of educational information about the investments or
activities of the mutual fund carried on by that portfolio adviser;




(d)

no member of the organization of the mutual fund pays any travel,
accommodation or personal incidental expenses associated with the
attendance of the representative at the conference or seminar; and




(e)

the costs relating to the organization and presentation of the
conference or seminar are reasonable having regard to the purpose of
the conference or seminar.






Third party sponsored educational events




5.3


A member of the organization of a mutual fund may, for a conference,
seminar or course that is organized and presented by a person or
company that is not a member of the organization of the mutual fund or
a participating dealer, pay the registration fees of a representative
of a participating dealer for the conference, seminar or course, if




(a)

the primary purpose of the conference, seminar or course is the
provision of educational information about financial planning,
investing in securities, mutual fund industry matters or mutual funds
generally;




(b)

the participating dealer provides invoices for or receipts evidencing
payment of the registration fees to be paid by a member of the
organization of the mutual fund;




(c)

the selection of the representatives of the participating dealer to
attend the conference, seminar or course is made exclusively by the
participating dealer, uninfluenced by any member of the organization
of the mutual fund; and




(d)

the conference, seminar or course is held in Canada or the continental
United States of America.






Industry association sponsored events




5.4

(1)


Except as permitted by section 5.3 or subsection (2), no member of the
organization of a mutual fund may pay money, provide non-monetary
benefits or pay or reimburse costs or expenses relating to a
conference, seminar or course that is organized and presented by IFIC,
the IDA or another trade or industry association.




(2)

A member of the organization of a mutual fund may pay, to IFIC, the
IDA or their respective affiliates or associates, direct costs
incurred by IFIC, the IDA or their respective affiliates or associates
relating to a conference or seminar organized and presented by IFIC,
the IDA or their respective affiliates or associates, if




(a)

the primary purpose of the conference or seminar is the provision of
educational information about financial planning, investing in
securities, mutual fund industry matters or mutual funds generally;




(b)

the members of the organization of mutual funds in a mutual fund
family in aggregate pay not more than 10 percent of the total
direct costs incurred by IFIC, the IDA or their respective affiliates
or associates for the organization and presentation of the conference
or seminar;




(c)

the selection of the representatives of a participating dealer to
attend the conference or seminar is made exclusively by the
participating dealer, uninfluenced by any member of the organization
of the mutual fund; and




(d)

the conference or seminar is held in Canada or the continental United
States of America.






Participating dealer sponsored events




5.5


A member of the organization of a mutual fund may pay, to a
participating dealer, direct costs incurred by the participating
dealer relating to a conference or seminar that is organized and
presented by the participating dealer, and that is not an investor
conference or investor seminar referred to in section 5.1, if




(a)

the primary purpose of the conference or seminar is the provision of
educational information about financial planning, investing in
securities, mutual fund industry matters, the mutual fund, the mutual
fund family of which the mutual fund is a member or mutual funds
generally;




(b)

the members of the organization of mutual funds in a mutual fund
family in aggregate pay not more than 10 percent of the total direct
costs incurred by the participating dealer for the organization and
presentation of the conference or seminar;




(c)

the aggregate direct costs of the conference or seminar paid by all
members of organizations of mutual funds do not exceed 66 percent of
the total direct costs incurred by the participating dealer;




(d)

the selection of the representatives of the participating dealer to
attend the conference or seminar is made exclusively by the
participating dealer, uninfluenced by any member of the organization
of the mutual fund; and




(e)

the conference or seminar is held in




(i)

Canada,




(ii)

the continental United States of America, or




(iii)

a location where a portfolio adviser of the mutual fund carries on
business, if the primary purpose of the conference or seminar is the
provision of educational information about the investments or
activities of the mutual fund carried on by that portfolio adviser.






Promotional items and business promotion activities




5.6


A member of the organization of a mutual fund may provide to a
representative of a participating dealer non-monetary benefits of a
promotional nature and of minimal value, and a member of the
organization of a mutual fund may engage in business promotion
activities that result in a representative of a participating dealer
receiving a non-monetary benefit if




(a)

the provision of the benefits and activities is neither so extensive
nor so frequent as to cause a reasonable person to question whether
the provision of the benefits or activities improperly influences the
investment advice given by the representative to his or her clients;
and




(b)

in the case of business promotion activities, no member of the
organization of the mutual fund pays the travel, accommodation or
personal incidental expenses associated with the attendance of the
representative at the activities.




Part 6 — Portfolio Transactions





Reciprocal commissions and portfolio transactions




6.1

(1)


No member of the organization of a mutual fund shall influence or
attempt to influence how, or if, a participating dealer will pay or
allocate in a particular manner to any representative all or part of a
brokerage commission or of an amount representing the spread on a
principal transaction arising from a portfolio transaction of the
mutual fund executed by the participating dealer.




(2)

No member of the organization of a mutual fund shall direct a
portfolio transaction of a mutual fund to a participating dealer or
principal distributor of the mutual fund except through individuals
designated by the participating dealer or principal distributor as the
institutional representatives of the participating dealer or principal
distributor.




(3)

No member of the organization of a mutual fund shall advise a
representative of a participating dealer or a person or company
employed by a principal distributor, other than an individual referred
to in subsection (2), of a portfolio transaction of the mutual fund to
be directed to the participating dealer or principal distributor.




(4)

No member of the organization of a mutual fund shall direct, or offer
or agree to direct, a portfolio transaction of the mutual fund to a
participating dealer or principal distributor as inducement or reward
for the participating dealer or principal distributor selling or
having sold securities of the mutual fund or maintaining or having
maintained particular levels of securities of the mutual fund in
accounts of clients.




(5)

No participating dealer shall solicit or execute portfolio
transactions of a mutual fund as inducement or reward for the
participating dealer selling, or having sold, securities of the mutual
fund or maintaining, or having maintained, particular levels of
securities of the mutual fund in accounts of clients.






Obligations of participating dealers executing portfolio transactions




6.2


No participating dealer shall execute a portfolio transaction of a
mutual fund unless it has been directed to the participating dealer
through an individual designated by the participating dealer as an
institutional representative of the participating dealer.




Part 7 — Other Sales Practices





Commission rebates




7.1

(1)


A participating dealer or representative of a participating dealer may
pay all or part of a fee or commission payable by a securityholder on
the redemption of securities of a mutual fund that occurs in
connection with the purchase by the securityholder of securities of a
mutual fund in a different mutual fund family, only if




(a)

the participating dealer, or a representative on behalf of the
participating dealer, before taking any steps in connection with the
redemption, provides the securityholder with written disclosure of the
matters described in subsection (2) and obtains the written consent of
the securityholder to the completion of the redemption; and




(b)

the participating dealer is not a member of the organization of the
mutual fund the securities of which are being acquired.




(2)

The written disclosure referred to in subsection (1) shall include




(a)

a reasonable estimate of the amount of the fee or commission being
paid by the participating dealer on the redemption;




(b)

a reasonable estimate of the amount of the redemption charges to which
the securityholder will be subject in connection with the securities
of the mutual fund being acquired, expressed both as dollar amounts
and as percentages of the value of the securities being redeemed, and
the times at which those charges would be made; and




(c)

the tax consequences of the redemption.




(3)

No member of the organization of a mutual fund, other than a member
that is also a participating dealer acting in compliance with
subsection (1), shall pay to any person or company all or part of a
fee or commission payable by a securityholder on the redemption of
securities of another mutual fund that is not in the same mutual fund
family.






Financial assistance




7.2

(1)


No member of the organization of a mutual fund shall provide financial
assistance to a participating dealer of the mutual fund, a
representative of the participating dealer or their respective
associates or affiliates.




(2)

No participating dealer and no representative of a participating
dealer of a mutual fund shall solicit or accept financial assistance
from a member of the organization of the mutual fund.




(3)

Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply to financial assistance provided
by




(a)

a Canadian financial institution in the ordinary course of its
business, if no conditions to the provision of the financial
assistance promote the distribution of securities of particular mutual
funds; or




(b)

affiliates.






Charitable donations




7.3

(1)


No member of the organization of a mutual fund shall make a charitable
donation if the tax credit or deduction arising from the donation
benefits a participating dealer, a representative of a participating
dealer or a person or company that is an associate or affiliate of a
participating dealer or of a representative of a participating dealer.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply to a charitable donation made by a
member of the organization of a mutual fund if the tax credit or
deduction arising from the donation benefits an affiliate of the
member of the organization of the mutual fund.






Tied selling




7.4


No person or company shall require another person or company




(a)

to invest in securities of a particular mutual fund or mutual fund
family, either as a condition or on terms that appear to a reasonable
person to be a condition, of supplying or continuing to supply
products or services; or




(b)

to purchase or use any products or services, either as a condition or
on terms that appear to a reasonable person to be a condition, of
selling securities of a particular mutual fund or mutual fund family.




Part 8 — Prospectus and Point of Sale Disclosure





Disclosure of sales practices




8.1


A mutual fund shall provide in its prospectus or simplified prospectus
a complete description of




(a)

all compensation payable by members of the organization of the mutual
fund to all principal distributors and participating dealers of the
mutual fund; and




(b)

the sales practices followed by the members of the organization of the
mutual fund for distribution of securities of the mutual fund.






Disclosure of equity interests




8.2

(1)


A mutual fund shall disclose in its prospectus or simplified
prospectus the amount of any equity interest that




(a)

a member of the organization of the mutual fund has in a participating
dealer;




(b)

a participating dealer and associates of the participating dealer, in
aggregate, have in any member of the organization of the mutual fund;
and




(c)

a representative of a participating dealer and associates of the
representative, in aggregate, have in any member of the organization
of the mutual fund.




(2)

If a member of the organization of a mutual fund is not a reporting
issuer and the securities of the member are not listed on a Canadian
stock exchange, the mutual fund is not required to provide the
disclosure required by paragraph (1) (c) if it discloses




(a)

the aggregate equity interests held by all representatives of a
participating dealer and their respective associates in the member of
the organization of the mutual fund; and




(b)

the equity interests held by a representative of a participating
dealer and associates of the representative if the representative and
his or her associates have direct or indirect ownership of securities
representing more than five percent of any class of voting securities,
equity securities or partnership units of the member of the
organization of the mutual fund.




(3)

For each trade of a security of a mutual fund that is required to make
any of the disclosure described in this section, a participating
dealer shall deliver to the purchaser a document that discloses the
amount of any equity interest that




(a)

a member of the organization of the mutual fund has in the
participating dealer;




(b)

the participating dealer and its associates, in aggregate, have in any
member of the organization of the mutual fund;




(c)

the representatives of the participating dealer and associates of
those representatives, in aggregate, have in any member of the
organization of the mutual fund; and




(d)

the representative of the participating dealer that is acting on the
trade, and associates of the representative, in aggregate, have in any
member of the organization of the mutual fund.




(4)

No participating dealer shall complete a trade to which subsection (3)
applies unless the participating dealer obtains the prior written
consent of the purchaser to the completion of the trade after the
purchaser has received the document required by subsection (3).




(5)

A participating dealer is not required to comply with subsections (3)
and (4) for a trade if the purchaser in the trade has already been
provided with a document under subsection (3) on a previous trade and
the information contained in the document has not changed.






Disclosure requirements if no prospectus or simplified prospectus




8.3


A mutual fund that does not have a current prospectus or simplified
prospectus shall prepare a document containing the information
required by this Instrument to be provided in a prospectus or
simplified prospectus and deliver, or cause to be delivered, a copy of
the document to each purchaser of securities of the mutual fund at or
before the time of the applicable trade in securities of the mutual
fund, other than a trade in connection with a dividend reinvestment
plan of the mutual fund.




Part 9 — Exemption





Exemption




9.1

(1)


The regulator or securities regulatory authority may grant an
exemption to this Instrument, in whole or in part, subject to such
conditions or restrictions as may be imposed in the exemption.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), in Ontario, only the securities regulatory
authority may grant such an exemption.




Part 10 — Transitional





Effective date




10.1


This Instrument comes into force on May 1, 1998.






Prospectus disclosure




10.2


The prospectus of a mutual fund for which a receipt is obtained before
the date that this Instrument comes into force is not required to
comply with the disclosure requirements of this Instrument.



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Securities Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 418, s. 184.]



