







B.C. Reg. 422/2000


British Columbia Securities Commission



Deposited December 18, 2000

effective January 1, 2001





This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.


Securities Act



National Instrument 35-101


Conditional Exemption from Registration for

United States Broker-dealers and Agents






Part 1 — Definitions





Definitions




1.1


In this Instrument,


"agent"
means a partner, officer, director or salesperson of a broker-dealer
who is acting on behalf of a broker-dealer in effecting trades of
securities;



"broker-dealer"

means a "broker" or "dealer", as those terms are defined in the 1934
Act, that has its principal place of business in the United States of
America;



"foreign security"

means a security




(a)

that is listed for trading or quoted on an exchange or market outside
of Canada; or




(b)

of an issuer that is not incorporated, continued or organized under
the laws of Canada or a jurisdiction of Canada; and


"NASD"
means the National Association of Securities Dealers in the United
States of America.




Part 2 — Broker-dealer Exemption





Exemption from dealer registration requirement




2.1


The dealer registration requirement does not apply to a broker-dealer
if




(a)

the broker-dealer has no office or other physical presence in any
jurisdiction in Canada;




(b)

the broker-dealer is trading in a foreign security;




(c)

the trading is with or for




(i)

an individual ordinarily resident in the United States of America who
is temporarily resident in the local jurisdiction and with whom the
broker-dealer had a broker-dealer client relationship before the
individual became temporarily resident in the local jurisdiction; or




(ii)

an individual if the trade is for the individual's tax-advantaged
retirement savings plan or with the individual's tax-advantaged
retirement savings plan, and




(i)

the plan is located in the United States of America,




(ii)

the individual is a holder of or contributor to the plan, and




(iii)

the individual was previously resident in the United States of
America;




(d)

the broker-dealer has not advertised for or solicited new clients in
the local jurisdiction;




(e)

the broker-dealer is a member of the NASD;




(f)

the broker-dealer has delivered, or immediately after the
broker-dealer first relies on this section delivers, to the securities
regulatory authority




(i)

a notice that the broker-dealer is relying on an exemption from the
registration requirement provided under this Instrument;




(ii)

a statement of the broker-dealer certifying that the broker-dealer is
registered in the state of the United States of America where the
broker-dealer was located when the broker-dealer first relied on this
section; and




(iii)

an executed Form 35-101F1 Submission to Jurisdiction and Appointment
of Agent for Service of Process;




(g)

the broker-dealer has delivered a notice to the securities regulatory
authority describing any criminal or quasi-criminal proceeding brought
against the broker-dealer or its agents in any jurisdiction or foreign
jurisdiction, or of any decision, order, ruling, or other requirement
made with respect to or imposed on the broker-dealer or its agents in
a jurisdiction or foreign jurisdiction as a result of any
administrative, self-regulatory or regulatory action, hearing or
proceeding involving fraud, theft, deceit, misrepresentation or
similar conduct;




(h)

the broker-dealer has disclosed to the client that the broker-dealer
and its agents are not subject to the full regulatory requirements
otherwise applicable under local securities legislation; and




(i)

the broker-dealer, in the course of its dealings with clients, acts
fairly, honestly and in good faith.






Termination notice




2.2


A broker-dealer shall immediately notify the securities regulatory
authority if the broker-dealer will no longer engage in trading or
advising activities under section 2.1.






Exemption from adviser registration requirement




2.3


The adviser registration requirement does not apply to advising
activities of the broker-dealer if those activities are solely
incidental to trading activities of the broker-dealer under section
2.1.




Part 3 — Agents Exemption





Agents exemption




3.1


The dealer registration requirement does not apply to an agent if




(a)

the trading is on behalf of a broker-dealer that has notified the
agent of its intent to rely on the exemption under section 2.1;




(b)

the agent has no office or other physical presence in any jurisdiction
in Canada;




(c)

the agent is trading in a foreign security;




(d)

the trading is with or for




(i)

an individual ordinarily resident in the United States of America who
is temporarily resident in the local jurisdiction and with whom the
broker-dealer on whose behalf the agent is trading had a broker-dealer
client relationship before the individual became temporarily resident
in the local jurisdiction; or




(ii)

an individual if the trade is for the individual's tax-advantaged
retirement savings plan or with the individual's tax-advantaged
retirement savings plan, and




(i)

the plan is located in the United States of America,




(ii)

the individual is a holder of or contributor to the plan, and




(iii)

the individual was previously resident in the United States of
America;




(e)

the agent has not advertised for or solicited new clients in the local
jurisdiction;




(f)

the agent has delivered, or immediately after the agent first relied
on this section delivers, to the securities regulatory authority




(i)

a notice that the agent is relying on this Instrument for an exemption
from the registration requirement;




(ii)

a statement of the agent certifying that the agent is registered in
the state in the United States of America where the agent was located
when the agent first relied on this section; and




(iii)

an executed Form 35-101F2 Submission to Jurisdiction and Appointment
of Agent for Service of Process;




(g)

the agent has delivered a notice to the securities regulatory
authority describing any criminal or quasi-criminal proceeding brought
against the agent in any jurisdiction or foreign jurisdiction, or of
any decision, order, ruling, or other requirement made with respect to
or imposed on the agent in a jurisdiction or foreign jurisdiction as a
result of any administrative, self-regulatory or regulatory action,
hearing or proceeding involving fraud, theft, deceit,
misrepresentation or similar conduct;




(h)

the agent, in the course of its dealings with the broker-dealer's
clients, acts fairly, honestly and in good faith.






Termination notice




3.2


An agent shall immediately notify the securities regulatory authority
if the agent will no longer engage in trading or advising activities
under section 3.1.






Exemption from adviser registration requirement




3.3


The adviser registration requirement does not apply to advising
activities of the agent if those activities are solely incidental to
trading activities of the agent under section 3.1.




Part 4 — Exemption from Prospectus and Underwriter Requirements





Exemption from prospectus and underwriter requirements




4.1


The prospectus requirement and underwriter registration requirement do
not apply to a distribution of foreign securities if that distribution




(a)

is made by a broker-dealer or agent that is exempt from the adviser
registration requirement and the dealer registration requirement under
section 2.1 or 3.1; and




(b)

is made in compliance with all applicable




(i)

U.S. federal securities laws, and




(ii)

state securities legislation in the United States of America.




Part 5 — Effective Date





Effective date




5.1


This Instrument comes into force on January 1, 2001.




Form 35-101F1



FORM OF SUBMISSION TO JURISDICTION AND APPOINTMENT OF

AGENT FOR SERVICE OF PROCESS BY BROKER-DEALER






Instructions:



Complete this form for each of the jurisdictions in which the
broker-dealer seeks

the conditional exemption from registration in National
Instrument 35-101

(the "exemption"). Insert the name of the jurisdiction at each
"•".








1.

Name of broker-dealer (the "Broker-Dealer"):
................................................................................................:



2.

Jurisdiction of incorporation of the Broker-Dealer:
...........................................................................................:



3.

Name of agent for service of process (the "Agent for Service"):
.......................................................................



4.

Address for service of process on the Agent for Service in •:
............................................................................





.......................................................................:...............................................................................................



5.

The Broker-Dealer designates and appoints the Agent for Service at
the address stated above as its agent upon whom may be served a
notice, pleading, subpoena, summons or other process in any
action, investigation or administrative, criminal, quasi-criminal
or other proceeding (a "Proceeding") arising out of  or
relating to or concerning the Broker-Dealer's activities in •
under the exemption, and irrevocably waives any right to raise as
defence in any such proceeding any alleged lack of jurisdiction to
bring such Proceeding.



6.

The Broker-Dealer irrevocably and unconditionally submits to the
non-exclusive jurisdiction of the judicial, quasi-judicial and
administrative tribunals of • and any administrative proceeding in
•, in any Proceeding arising out of or related to or concerning
the Broker-Dealer's activities in • under the exemption.



7.

Until six years after the Broker-Dealer ceases to use the
exemption, the Broker-Dealer shall file:




a.

a new Submission to Jurisdiction and Appointment of Agent for
Service of Process in this form at least 30 days before
termination for any reason of this Submission to Jurisdiction and
Appointment of Agent for Service of Process; and




b.

an amended Submission to Jurisdiction and Appointment of Agent for
Service of Process at least 30 days before any change in the
name or above address of the Agent for Service.



8.

This submission to Jurisdiction and Appointment of Agent for
Service of Process is governed by and construed in accordance with
the laws of •.








Dated: ................................................


........................................................................

(Signature of Broker-Dealer or authorized signatory)





.........................................................................

(Name and Title of authorized signatory)


Acceptance


The undersigned accepts the appointment as Agent for Service of process
on ............................................
(insert name of Broker-Dealer)
under the terms and conditions of the foregoing Submission to
Jurisdiction and Appointment of Agent for Service of Process.





Dated: ................................................


........................................................................

(Signature of Agent for Service or authorized signatory)





........................................................................

(Name and Title of authorized signatory)



Form 35-101F2



FORM OF SUBMISSION TO JURISDICTION AND

APPOINTMENT OF AGENT FOR SERVICE OF PROCESS

BY AGENTS OF THE BROKER-DEALER






Instructions:



Complete this form for each of the jurisdictions in which agents
of the broker-dealer

seek the conditional exemption from registration in National
Instrument 35-101

(the "exemption"). Insert the name of the jurisdiction at each
"•".








1.

Name of the broker-dealer (the "Broker-Dealer")
................................................................................................:



2.

Jurisdiction of incorporation of the Broker-Dealer
................................................
................................................:



3.

Name(s) and address(es) of agent(s) of the Broker-Dealer filing
this form (the "Broker-Dealer Agents"):





................................................:
..........................................................................................................................



4.

Name of agent for service of process (the "Agent for Service"):
..........................
................................................



5.

Address for service of process on the Agent for Service in •:
.................................................................................





................................................:
...........................................................................................................................



6.

Each Broker-Dealer Agent designates and appoints the Agent for
Service at the address of the Agent for Service stated above as
its agent upon whom may be served a notice, pleading, subpoena,
summons or other process in any action, investigation or
administrative, criminal, quasi-criminal or other proceeding (a
"Proceeding") arising out of or relating to or concerning the
Broker-Dealer Agent's activities in • under the exemption, and
irrevocably waives any right to raise as a defence in any such
proceeding any alleged lack of jurisdiction to bring such
Proceeding.



7.

Each Broker-Dealer Agent irrevocably and unconditionally submits
to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the judicial, quasi-judicial
and administrative tribunals of • and any administrative
proceeding in •, in any Proceeding arising out of or related to or
concerning the Broker-Dealer Agent's activities in • under the
exemption.



8.

Until the earlier of (i) the termination of a Broker-Dealer
Agent's position as an agent of the Broker-Dealer and (ii) six
years after the Broker-Dealer ceases to use the exemption, the
Broker-Dealer Agent shall file:




a.

a new Submission to Jurisdiction and Appointment of Agent for
Service of Process in this form at least 30 days prior to
termination for any reason of this Submission to Jurisdiction and
Appointment of Agent for Service of Process; and




b.

an amended Submission to Jurisdiction and Appointment of Agent for
Service of Process at least 30 days before any change in the name
or above address of the Agent for Service.



9.

This Submission to Jurisdiction and Appointment of Agent for
Service of Process is governed by and construed in accordance with
the laws of •.








Dated: ................................................


.....................................................................

(Signature of Broker-Dealer Agent)




Dated: ................................................


.....................................................................

(Signature of Broker-Dealer Agent)




Dated: ................................................


.....................................................................

(Signature of Broker-Dealer Agent)




Dated: ................................................


.....................................................................

(Signature of Broker-Dealer Agent)





Acceptance


The undersigned accepts the appointment as Agent for Service of process
on ............................................
(insert name(s) of Broker-Dealer Agent(s))
pursuant to the terms and conditions of the foregoing Submission to
Jurisdiction and Appointment of Agent for Service of Process.





Dated: ................................................


........................................................................

(Signature of Agent for Service or authorized signatory)





........................................................................

(Name and Title of authorized signatory)


[Provisions of the

Securities Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 418, relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
section 184]



