





View Complete Statute



Tsawwassen First Nation Final Agreement Act
[SBC 2007] CHAPTER 39


Schedule


Tsawwassen First Nation Final Agreement



APPENDIX F


TSAWWASSEN WATER LOTS





APPENDIX F–1


Map of Tsawwassen Water Lots




APPENDIX F–2


Form of Water Lot Lease






APPENDIX F–1



Map of Tsawwassen Water Lots








Link to Large Map










APPENDIX F–2


Water Lot Lease


LEASE



Lease No.:


File No.:

Disposition No.:





THIS AGREEMENT is dated for reference _______________ and is made under
the
Land Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996 Chapter 245

BETWEEN:


HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN IN RIGHT OF THE PROVINCE OF BRITISH COLUMBIA

, represented by the minister responsible for the Land Act Parliament
Buildings, Victoria, British Columbia

(the "Province")
AND:

TSAWWASSEN FIRST NATION

(the "Lessee")
WHEREAS:

Tsawwassen First Nation, Canada and British Columbia have entered into a
treaty, referred to as the "Tsawwassen First Nation Final Agreement",
which provides that, on its effective date, British Columbia will enter
into this Tsawwassen Water Lot Lease,

The parties agree as follows:

ARTICLE 1


1.0 INTERPRETATION


1.1 In this Agreement, the following words and phrases have the
following meanings:


"Commencement Date"
means the effective date of the Tsawwassen First Nation Final Agreement;


"Contaminant"
means any dangerous, hazardous, or toxic substance the storage,
manufacture, handling, disposal, treatment, use or remediation of which
is from time to time prohibited, regulated or controlled under any
Federal or Provincial laws relating to the protection of the
environment, health, occupational health and safety or the protection of
any form of plant or animal life;


"Improvements"
includes anything made, constructed, erected, built, altered, repaired
or added to, in, on or under the Land, and attached to it or intended to
become a part of it, and also includes any clearing, excavating,
digging, drilling, tunnelling, filling, grading or ditching of, in, on
or under the Land by the Lessee;


"Land"
means those lands identified as [insert legal description] by a survey
accepted and confirmed under section 72 of the Land Act and deposited in
the Crown Land Registry under number ______, a copy of which is attached
as Schedule A;


"Nominal Annual Rent"
means the sum of $1.00 for each year of the Term;


"Realty Taxes"
means all taxes, rates, levies, duties, charges and assessments levied
or charged, at any time, by any government authority having jurisdiction
which relate to the Land, the Improvements or both of them and which you
are liable to pay under applicable laws;


"Term"
means the term of the leasehold interest created by this Agreement and
includes the initial term and all renewal terms as set out in section
2.2;


"Tsawwassen Public Institution"
has the same meaning as Tsawwassen Public Institution in the Tsawwassen
First Nation Final Agreement;


"we"
,
"us"
or
"our"
refers to the Province alone and never refers to the combination of the
Province and the Lessee: that combination is referred to as
"the parties"
; and


"you"
or
"your"
refers to the Lessee.


1.2 For the purposes of this Agreement, except as otherwise expressly
provided:


(a)
"this Agreement"
means this agreement, including the Schedules, as they may from time to
time be supplemented or amended and in effect;


(b) wherever the singular or masculine form is used in this Agreement it
will be construed as the plural or feminine or neuter form, as the case
may be, and vice versa where the context or parties require;


(c) the captions and headings contained in this Agreement are for
convenience only and do not define or in any way limit the scope or
intent of this Agreement;


(d) where there is a reference to an enactment of the Province of
British Columbia or of Canada, that reference will include a reference
to every amendment to it, every regulation made under it and any
subsequent enactment of like effect and, unless otherwise indicated, all
enactments referred to in this Agreement are enactments of the Province
of British Columbia; and


(e) wherever this Agreement provides that an action may be taken, a
consent or approval must be obtained or a determination must be made,
then you or we, as the case may be, will act reasonably and without
delay in taking such action, deciding whether to provide such consent or
approval or making such determination.


1.3 The following schedules are annexed to and form a part of this
Agreement: Schedule A (copy of survey describing Land).


ARTICLE 2


2.0 GRANT, TERM AND PERMITTED USE


2.1 On the terms and conditions set out in this Agreement, we grant you
a lease of the Land for the permitted uses set out in subsection 2.5.


2.2 The term of this Agreement commences on the Commencement Date and
terminates on the Ninety-ninth (99th) anniversary of that date (the
"initial term").


2.3 You may at your option renew this Agreement for one or more
additional 99-year periods (any one of which may be referred to as a
"renewal term") in perpetuity.


2.4 You will be conclusively deemed to have exercised this right of
renewal during the initial term and each successive renewal term unless
you give us written notice to the contrary on or before the fifth (5th)
year prior to the end of the initial term or any particular renewal term
as the case may be. Any renewal includes the terms and conditions of
this Agreement with the modifications that are necessary to reflect the
commencement date of the extended term.


2.5 You may use and occupy the Land only for recreational and other
community uses which are not carried out for a business or commercial
purpose. For greater certainty and without limitation you may not use or
occupy the Land to carry out an industrial, commercial or other activity
for the purpose of generating revenues and profits.


ARTICLE 3


3.0 COVENANTS

3.1 You must:

(a) pay, to us at the address set out in Article 8, the Nominal Annual
Rent, when due and other amounts that you are required to pay to us
under this Agreement;


(b) pay, on or before the date due, the Realty Taxes and all charges for
electricity, gas, water and other utilities supplied to the Land;


(c) deliver to us, immediately upon demand, receipts or other evidence
of the payment of Realty Taxes and all other money required to be paid
by you under this Agreement;


(d) observe, abide by and comply with all applicable laws, bylaws,
orders, directions, ordinances and regulations of any government
authority having jurisdiction in any way affecting your use or
occupation of the Land or Improvements;


(e) not commit any wilful or voluntary waste, spoil or destruction on
the Land;


(f) on the expiry or earlier termination of this Agreement, or at any
other time if requested by us, promptly at your own cost, remove from
the Land any Contaminant, and remediate any contamination caused by a
Contaminant, where the Contaminant has been brought onto, used at, or
released from Land by you, any person to whom you have given permission
to use the Land or any other person for whom you are in law responsible;


(g) not to do anything on the Land that may be or become a nuisance to
an owner or occupier of land in the vicinity of the Land;


(h) pay all accounts and expenses as they become due for labour or
services performed on, or materials supplied to, the Land except for
money that you are required to hold back under the
Builders Lien Act
;


(i) if any claim of lien over the Land is made under the
Builders Lien Act
, immediately take all steps necessary to have the lien discharged,
unless the claim of lien is being contested in good faith by you and you
have taken the steps necessary to ensure that the claim of lien will not
subject the Land or any interest of yours under this Agreement to sale
or forfeiture;


(j) not without prior written consent from us deposit on the Land, or
any part of it, any earth, fill or other material for the purpose of
filling in or raising the level of the Land;


(k) not make, construct, erect, alter or remove (except as provided in
subsection n)any Improvements unless you have first given us notice and
obtained our written consent and without limitation we may, as a
condition of consent, require you to provide us with plans and other
reasonable details describing the Improvement alteration or removal;


(l) in accordance with applicable laws and after giving reasonable
notice to you, permit us, or our authorized representatives, to enter on
the Land at any time to inspect the Land and the Improvements, provided
that in regard to our inspection of the Improvements we take reasonable
steps to minimize any disruption to your operations;


(m) indemnify and save us and our servants, employees and agents
harmless against all claims, actions, causes of action, losses, damages,
costs and liabilities, including fees of solicitors and other
professional advisors, arising out of:


(i) your breach, violation or non-performance of a provision of this
Agreement, and


(ii) any personal injury, bodily injury (including death) or property
damage occurring or happening on or off the Land by virtue of your entry
upon, use or occupation of the Land,


and the amount of all such losses, damages, costs and liabilities will
be payable to us immediately upon demand; and

(n) on the termination of this Agreement,

(i) peaceably quit and deliver to us possession of the Land and, subject
to paragraphs (ii) and (iii), the Improvements in a safe, clean and
sanitary condition,


(ii) within 120 days, remove from the Land any Improvement that was
placed on or made to the Land by you, or anyone acting by or under your
authority and is in the nature of a tenant's fixture,


(iii) remove from the Land any Improvement that we, in writing, direct
or permit you to remove, and


(iv) restore the surface of the Land as nearly as may reasonably be
possible to the same condition as it was on the Commencement Date, to
our satisfaction, but if you are not directed or permitted to remove an
Improvement under paragraph (iii), this paragraph will not apply to that
part of the surface of the Land on which that Improvement is located,


and, except to the extent provided in any notice directing you to remove
an Improvement, all of your right, interest and estate in any
Improvement remaining on the Land will be absolutely forfeited to us.


3.2 You will not permit any person to do anything you are restricted
from doing under this Article.


3.3 Subject to the limitations provided in this Agreement we will
provide you with quiet enjoyment of the Land.


ARTICLE 4


4.0 LIMITATIONS

4.1 You agree with us that:

(a) we are under no obligation to provide access or services to the
Land;


(b) this Agreement is subject to the exceptions and reservations of
interests, rights, privileges and titles referred to in section 50 of
the
Land Act
;


(c) without limitation to the preceding subsections, this Agreement and
your use of the Lands are subject to and may be affected by:


(i) Exploratory Oil and Gas Permit 802 issued under the
Petroleum Natural Gas Act
,


(ii) Statutory Right of Way No. 0238 202 in favour of British Columbia
Hydro and Power Authority, and


(iii) rights of navigation over the waters that lie above the Land;


(d) you will not commence or maintain proceedings under section 65 of
the Land Act in respect of any lawful interference with your use of the
Land under this Agreement that arises as a result of the exercise or
operation of the interests, rights, privileges, titles and dispositions
described in subsections (b) and (c);


(e) any interference with your use of the Land under this Agreement as a
result of the exercise or operation of the interests, rights,
privileges, titles and dispositions described in subsections (b) and (c)
will not constitute a breach of our covenant of quiet enjoyment and you
release and discharge us from all claims for loss or damage arising
directly or indirectly out of any such interference;


(f) this Agreement creates a lease of the Land under the authority
provided under the Land Act and does not constitute an approval,
licence, authorization or permission under any other enactment and does
not interfere with, influence, encroach upon or fetter the jurisdiction,
processes or discretion of any minister, public official, agency or
decision maker who may be entitled or required to make any other
decision or take any other action in regard to your use of the Land;


(g) any interest you may have in the Improvements ceases to exist and
becomes our property upon termination of this Agreement, except where an
Improvement may be removed under paragraph 3.1 (n) (ii) or (iii) in
which case any interest you may have in that Improvement ceases to exist
and becomes our property if the Improvement is not removed from the Land
within the time period set out in paragraph 3.1 (n) (ii) or the time
period provided for in the direction or permission given under paragraph
3.1 (n) (iii) unless we have specified otherwise in the direction or
permission given under paragraph 3.1 (n) (iii); and


(h) if, after the termination of this Agreement, we permit you to remain
in possession of the Land and we accept money from you in respect of
such possession, a tenancy from year to year will not be created by
implication of law. In the absence of any written agreement to the
contrary you will be deemed to be a monthly tenant only and to be
subject to and bound by all of the provisions of this Agreement other
than the Term.


ARTICLE 5


5.0 INSURANCE

5.1 You must

(a) without limiting your obligations or liabilities under this
Agreement, at your expense, effect and keep in force during the Term:


(i) Comprehensive/Commercial General Liability insurance protecting us
as an additional insured in an amount of not less than $___________
inclusive per occurrence insuring against liability for personal injury,
bodily injury (including death) or property damage, and claims for
liability assumed under contract, arising from all accidents or
occurrences on the Land or the Improvements; and


(ii) Pollution Legal Liability insurance in an amount of not less than
$____________ insuring against on-site clean up for new pollution
conditions and third party claims for on-site or off-site property
damage or bodily injury (including death);


(b) on the Commencement Date and immediately upon demand, deliver to us
a completed "Province of British Columbia Certificate of Insurance" for
all insurance required to be maintained by you under this Agreement;


(c) ensure that all insurance required to be maintained by you under
this Agreement is


(i) placed with insurers licensed in British Columbia,


(ii) primary and does not require the sharing of any loss by any insurer
that insures us, and


(iii) endorsed to provide us with 30 days' advance written notice of
cancellation or material change; and


(d) deliver or cause to be delivered to us, upon demand, certified
copies of all policies of insurance required to be maintained by you
under this Agreement.

5.2 We may, from time to time, notify you to

(a) change the amount of insurance set out in subsection 5.1 (a); and


(b) provide and maintain another type or types of insurance in
replacement of or in addition to the insurance previously required to be
maintained by you under this Agreement;


and you will, within 60 days of receiving such notice, cause the amounts
and types to be changed and deliver to us a completed "Province of
British Columbia Certificate of Insurance" for all insurance then
required to be maintained by you under this Agreement.


5.3 Despite subsections 5.1 (a) to (d) and section 5.2, your obligations
under those sections are suspended for so long as we in our sole
discretion accept your decision to self insure in respect of the matters
covered by those sections. If we no longer accept your decision to
self-insure we will provide notice to you of our decision and you must,
within 30 days of such notice, obtain the insurance described in section
5.1 (a) or otherwise required by us under section 5.2.


ARTICLE 6


6.0 ASSIGNMENT AND SUBLEASES


6.1 The parties have entered into this Agreement to give effect to the
agreement described in the Tsawwassen Final Agreement. It is the intent
of the parties that this Agreement remain between the Province and the
Lessee for the duration of the Term. Accordingly the parties agree that
this Agreement and the leasehold interest in the Land created by this
Agreement may only be assigned, mortgaged or otherwise transferred to a
Tsawwassen Public Institution


6.2 We agree that you may grant subleases of the Land and you may permit
others to use the land provided:


(a) the sublease or permission to use the Lands is reasonably required
to allow the Land to be used in the manner provided in section 2.5;


(b) the sublease is in writing and subject to all of the terms and
conditions of this Agreement;


(c) the sublease is to a corporation wholly owned and controlled by the
Tsawwassen First Nation;


(d) you do not grant any sublease of the Lands unless you have first
given us notice and obtained our prior written approval to any sublease
and without limitation we may as a condition of approval require you to
provide reasonable details with respect to the proposed sublease; and


(e) you provide us with a copy of any sublease promptly after it has
been entered into and thereafter provide us with any additional
documents or information relating to the sublease which we may request.


ARTICLE 7


7.0 TERMINATION AND DISPUTE RESOLUTION


7.1 If you fail to comply with any of your obligations under this
Agreement (a "default"), and the default has not been cured within 60
days after we give written notice of the default to you, or within such
longer period allowed by section 7.2, this Agreement will, at our option
and with or without entry, terminate, and all your right interest or
estate in the Land will be absolutely forfeited to us.


7.2 If a default (other than the payment of any money payable by you
under this Agreement) reasonably requires more time to cure than 60
days, then the 60 day period referred to in section 7.1 will be extended
for so long as is reasonably required to cure the default provided you
commence curing the default within the 60 day period and you continue to
diligently take steps to cure the default.


7.3 You will make no claim for compensation, in damages or otherwise,
upon the lawful termination of this Agreement under section 7.1.


7.4 If any dispute arises under this Agreement, including the issuance
of a notice of default as provided in section 7.1, the parties will make
all reasonable efforts to resolve the dispute within 60 days of the
dispute arising or the notice, as the case may be (or within such other
time period agreed to by the parties) and, subject to applicable laws,
provide candid and timely disclosure to each other of all relevant
facts, information and documents to facilitate those efforts.


7.5 If a dispute under this Agreement cannot be resolved under section
7.4, the parties may agree to refer the dispute to arbitration conducted
by a sole arbitrator appointed pursuant to the
Commercial Arbitration Act
but absent any such agreement either party may take any steps or
commence any legal proceedings to which it may be entitled in respect of
the dispute.


ARTICLE 8


8.0 NOTICE


8.1 Any notice required to be given by either party to the other will be
deemed to be given if mailed by prepaid registered mail in Canada or
delivered by hand to the address of the other as follows:

to us

Ministry of Agriculture and Lands

PO BOX 9120 STN PROV GOVT

VICTORIA BC V8W 9B4

to you

Tsawwassen First Nation

131 North Tsawwassen Drive

Delta, BC V4M 4G2


or at such other address as a party may, from time to time, direct in
writing, and any such notice will be deemed to have been received if
delivered, on the day of delivery, and if mailed, 7 days after the time
of mailing, except in the case of mail interruption in which case actual
receipt is required.


8.2 In order to expedite the delivery of any notice required to be given
by either party to the other, a concurrent facsimile copy of any notice
will, where possible, be provided to the other party but nothing in this
section, and specifically the lack of delivery of a facsimile copy of
any notice, will affect the deemed delivery provided in section 8.1.


8.3 The delivery of all money payable to us under this Agreement will be
effected by hand, courier or prepaid regular mail to the address
specified above, or by any other payment procedure agreed to by the
parties, such deliveries to be effective on actual receipt.


ARTICLE 9


9.0 GENERAL


9.1 If any section of this Agreement, or any part of a section, is found
to be illegal or unenforceable, that section or part of a section, as
the case may be, will be considered separate and severable and the
remainder of this Agreement will not be affected and this Agreement will
be enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law. The Parties will
make their best efforts to amend this Agreement to remedy or replace
that section or part of that section as the case may be.


9.2 This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties
with respect to the lease of the Land and no understanding or agreement,
oral or otherwise, exists between the parties with respect to the
subject matter of this Agreement except as expressly set out in this
Agreement and this Agreement may not be modified except by subsequent
agreement in writing between the parties.


9.3 Where this Agreement contains the forms of words contained in Column
I of Schedule 4 of the
Land Transfer Form Act
, those words will have the same effect and be construed as if the
appropriate forms of words contained in Column II of that Schedule were
contained in this Agreement, unless the context requires another
construction of those words.


9.4 No provision of this Agreement will be considered to have been
waived unless the waiver is in writing, and a waiver of a breach of a
provision of this Agreement will not be construed as or constitute a
waiver of any further or other breach of the same or any other provision
of this Agreement, and a consent or approval to any act requiring
consent or approval will not waive or render unnecessary the requirement
to obtain consent or approval to any subsequent same or similar act.


9.5 No remedy conferred upon or reserved to us under this Agreement is
exclusive of any other remedy in this Agreement or provided by law, but
that remedy will be in addition to all other remedies in this Agreement
or then existing at law, in equity or by statute.


9.6 We are under no obligation, express or implied, to provide financial
assistance or to contribute toward the cost of servicing, creating or
developing the Land or the Improvements and you are solely responsible
for all costs and expenses associated with your use of the Land and the
Improvements for the purposes set out in this Agreement.


9.7 This Agreement does not override or affect any powers, privileges or
immunities to which you are entitled under any applicable law.


The parties have executed this Agreement as of the date of reference of
this Agreement.


SIGNED on behalf of

HER MAJESTY

THE QUEEN IN RIGHT OF THE

PROVINCE OF BRITISH COLUMBIA

by

the authorized representative of the

minister responsible for the
Land Act

____________________________________________


TSAWWASSEN FIRST NATION

____________________________________________


SCHEDULE "A"



COPY OF SURVEY PLAN OF WATER LOT




Contents
|



Sections 1 to 21

|



Schedule - Contents

|



Schedule - Preamble

|



Schedule - Chapter 1

|



Schedule - Chapter 2

|



Schedule - Chapter 3

|



Schedule - Chapter 4

|



Schedule - Chapter 5

|



Schedule - Chapter 6

|



Schedule - Chapter 7

|



Schedule - Chapter 8

|



Schedule - Chapter 9

|



Schedule - Chapter 10

|



Schedule - Chapter 11

|



Schedule - Chapter 12

|



Schedule - Chapter 13

|



Schedule - Chapter 14

|



Schedule - Chapter 15

|



Schedule - Chapter 16

|



Schedule - Chapter 17

|



Schedule - Chapter 18

|



Schedule - Chapter 19

|



Schedule - Chapter 20

|



Schedule - Chapter 21

|



Schedule - Chapter 22

|



Schedule - Chapter 23

|



Schedule - Chapter 24

|



Schedule - Chapter 25

|



Schedule - Appendices - Contents

|



Appendices - Introduction

|



Appendix A

|



Appendix B

|



Appendix C

|



Appendix D

|



Appendix E

|

Appendix F |


Appendix G

|



Appendix H

|



Appendix I

|



Appendix J

|



Appendix K

|



Appendix L

|



Appendix M

|



Appendix N

|



Appendix O

|



Appendix P

|



Appendix Q

|



Appendix R





