





View Complete Statute



Tsawwassen First Nation Final Agreement Act
[SBC 2007] CHAPTER 39


Schedule


Tsawwassen First Nation Final Agreement



APPENDIX J


TSAWWASSEN FISHING





APPENDIX J–1



Map of Tsawwassen Fishing Area and Tsawwassen Intertidal Bivalve
Fishing Area





APPENDIX J–2



Tsawwassen Allocations for Fish and Aquatic Plants





APPENDIX J–3



Principles for Calculating Overages and Underages







APPENDIX J–1




Map of Tsawwassen Fishing Area and

Tsawwassen Intertidal Bivalve Fishing Area









Link to Large Map




APPENDIX J–2



Tsawwassen Allocations for Fish and Aquatic Plants


Sockeye Salmon


In any year, the Tsawwassen Fishing Right Allocation for sockeye salmon
will be:


a) when the Canadian Total Allowable Catch for Fraser River sockeye
salmon is 500 000 or less, 1.0% of the Canadian Total Allowable Catch
for Fraser River sockeye salmon;


b) when the Canadian Total Allowable Catch for Fraser River sockeye
salmon is greater than 500 000 and less than 3.0 million, then 5 000
Fraser River sockeye salmon plus 0.40904% of that portion of the
Canadian Total Allowable Catch for Fraser River sockeye that is greater
than 500 000 and less than 3.0 million; and


c) when the Canadian Total Allowable Catch for Fraser River sockeye
salmon is equal to or greater than 3.0 million, then 15 226 Fraser River
sockeye salmon.


Chum Salmon


In any year, the Tsawwassen Fishing Right Allocation for chum salmon
will be 2.58% of the Terminal Surplus of Fraser River chum salmon to a
maximum of 2 576 Fraser River chum salmon.


Pink Salmon


In any year, the Tsawwassen Fishing Right Allocation for pink salmon
will be that number of fish caught incidentally in the harvest of
Tsawwassen Allocation for sockeye salmon, up to a maximum of 2 500
Fraser River pink salmon.


Chinook Salmon


In any year, the Tsawwassen Fishing Right Allocation for chinook salmon
will be determined by an abundance based formula, based on Canadian
Total Allowable Catch that produces an average annual harvest of 625
Fraser River chinook salmon based on Fraser River chinook salmon returns
for the 1982 to 2004 time period.


Coho Salmon


In any year, the Tsawwassen Allocation for coho salmon is an amount of
Fraser River coho salmon that will result in an annual average harvest
of 500 Fraser River coho salmon and will be harvested:


a) incidentally in fisheries that target other species; or


b) using selective harvesting techniques to capture specific coho
stocks.



APPENDIX J–3



Principles for Calculating Overages and Underages


The procedures for calculating overages and underages for each Salmon
species will be consistent with the following principles:


a) where a Tsawwassen harvest exceeded the defined Tsawwassen Allocation
for a Salmon species in a year, an overage has occurred for that species
and the amount of that overage will be accounted for in the multi-year
accounting process;


b) where a Tsawwassen harvest was less than the defined Tsawwassen
Allocation for a Salmon species in a year because another group
harvested more than their harvest share for that species, an underage
has occurred for that species and the amount of that underage will be
accounted for in the multi-year accounting process;


c) where a Tsawwassen harvest was less than the defined Tsawwassen
Allocation for a Salmon species in a year due to uncertainty in the
management process for that species, an underage has occurred for that
species and a defined portion of that underage will be accounted for in
the multi-year accounting process;


d) where a Tsawwassen harvest was less than the defined Tsawwassen
Allocation for a Salmon species in a year due to a lack of harvesting
effort on the part of Tsawwassen, no underage has occurred for that
species in that year; and


e) where Tsawwassen and Canada agree on an amount to be accounted or in
the multi-year accounting process for overages and underages for a
Salmon species, Tsawwassen and Canada will use that amount in the
multi-year accounting process.



Contents
|



Sections 1 to 21

|



Schedule - Contents

|



Schedule - Preamble

|



Schedule - Chapter 1

|



Schedule - Chapter 2

|



Schedule - Chapter 3

|



Schedule - Chapter 4

|



Schedule - Chapter 5

|



Schedule - Chapter 6

|



Schedule - Chapter 7

|



Schedule - Chapter 8

|



Schedule - Chapter 9

|



Schedule - Chapter 10

|



Schedule - Chapter 11

|



Schedule - Chapter 12

|



Schedule - Chapter 13

|



Schedule - Chapter 14

|



Schedule - Chapter 15

|



Schedule - Chapter 16

|



Schedule - Chapter 17

|



Schedule - Chapter 18

|



Schedule - Chapter 19

|



Schedule - Chapter 20

|



Schedule - Chapter 21

|



Schedule - Chapter 22

|



Schedule - Chapter 23

|



Schedule - Chapter 24

|



Schedule - Chapter 25

|



Schedule - Appendices - Contents

|



Appendices - Introduction

|



Appendix A

|



Appendix B

|



Appendix C

|



Appendix D

|



Appendix E

|



Appendix F

|



Appendix G

|



Appendix H

|



Appendix I

|

Appendix J |


Appendix K

|



Appendix L

|



Appendix M

|



Appendix N

|



Appendix O

|



Appendix P

|



Appendix Q

|



Appendix R





