




"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Public Service Benefit Plan Act

Long Term Disability Plan Regulation
B.C. Reg. 409/97






NOTE:

Links below go to regulation content as it was prior to the
changes made on the effective date. (PIT covers changes made
from September 19, 2009 to "current to" date of the
regulation.)




SECTION
EFFECTIVE DATE


Section 2.1

September 11, 2023



Section 2.2

March 29, 2019





July 13, 2020





September 11, 2023



Section 2.3

March 30, 2022





September 11, 2023



Section 2.4

September 11, 2023



Section 2.5

September 11, 2023



Section 2.6

September 11, 2023



Section 2.7

September 11, 2023



Section 2.8

July 13, 2020





March 30, 2022





September 11, 2023



Section 2.13

September 11, 2023



Section 2.14

September 11, 2023



Section 2.20

March 30, 2022





September 11, 2023



Section 4

September 11, 2023



Schedule A

January 15, 2010





January 30, 2013





April 1, 2013





July 28, 2014





September 11, 2023









Section 2.1 (a) BEFORE amended by BC Reg 208/2023, effective
September 11, 2023.




(a)

Regular full-time employees shall be covered by the Long Term
Disability Plan upon completion of six months active employment with
the employer. To be covered by the plan, a regular part-time
employee must be working in a position that requires at least
half-time work on a regularly scheduled basis, and must have
completed six (6) months active service in such a position.



Where an employee covered by Plan Type A or B described in Schedule
A, is converted from auxiliary to regular status, plan coverage
shall commence the earlier of 2.1 (a) above, or upon the completion
of six (6) months of full-time, unbroken employment from the date
the employee qualified for Short Term Illness and Injury Plan
benefits under Article 31.12 of the B.C. Government and Service
Employees' Union master agreement or under the appropriate section
of the employee's terms and conditions of employment.





Section 2.2 (a.1) (ii) BEFORE amended by BC Reg 64/2019, effective
March 29, 2019.




(ii)

when an employee has no sick bank, or after it is exhausted, the
employee shall receive a monthly benefit equal to the sum of:


Plan Type A — 70% of the first $2 600 of monthly earnings and 50% of
the monthly earnings above $2 600;


Plan Type B — 70% of the first $2 300 of monthly earnings and 50% of
the monthly earnings above $2 300;


Plan Type D — 68.3% of the first $2 400 of monthly earnings and 50%
of the monthly earnings above $2 400;


Plan Type E — 68.3% of the first $2 200 of monthly earnings and 50%
of the monthly earnings above $2 200;


Plan Type H — 68.3% of the first $2 500 of monthly earnings and 50%
of the monthly earnings above $2 500;


Plan Type I — 68.3% of the first $2 500 of monthly earnings and 50%
of the monthly earnings above $2 500;


Plan Type J — 70% of the regular gross monthly earnings.





Section 2.2 (c) BEFORE amended by BC Reg 181/2020, effective July
13, 2020.




(c)

The Long Term Disability benefit payment will be made as long as an
employee remains totally disabled in accordance with section 2.3
below, and will cease on the date the employee recovers, or at the
end of the month in which the employee reaches age 65 (age 60 for
firefighters, correctional centre employees and special constables
of the Legislative Assembly), or resigns or dies, whichever occurs
first.





Section 2.2 (a.1) (ii) BEFORE amended by BC Reg 208/2023, effective
September 11, 2023.




(ii)

when an employee has no sick bank, or after it is exhausted, the
employee shall receive a monthly benefit equal to the sum of:


Plan Type A — 70% of the first $2 600 of monthly earnings and 50% of
the monthly earnings above $2 600;


Plan Type B — 70% of the first $2 700 of monthly earnings and 50% of
the monthly earnings above $2 700;


Plan Type D — 68.3% of the first $2 400 of monthly earnings and 50%
of the monthly earnings above $2 400;


Plan Type E — 70% of the first $2 300 of monthly earnings and 50% of
the monthly earnings above $2 300;


Plan Type H — 68.3% of the first $2 500 of monthly earnings and 50%
of the monthly earnings above $2 500;


Plan Type I — 68.3% of the first $2 500 of monthly earnings and 50%
of the monthly earnings above $2 500;


Plan Type J — 70% of the regular gross monthly earnings.



Section 2.2 (d) BEFORE amended by BC Reg 208/2023, effective
September 11, 2023.




(d)

An employee in receipt of Long Term Disability benefits will be
considered an employee for purposes of superannuation and will
continue to be covered by the group life, extended health, dental
and medical plans established under an enactment. Employees will not
be covered by any other provision of a collective agreement or term
and condition of employment but will retain the right of access to a
Rehabilitation Committee established thereunder and will retain
seniority rights should they return to employment within nine (9)
months following cessation of benefits. A temporary assignment or
auxiliary appointment will not disqualify an employee from the 9
month access period.



Section 2.2 (f.1) was added by BC Reg 208/2023, effective September
11, 2023.





Section 2.3 (a) and (b) BEFORE amended by BC Reg 76/2022, effective
March 30, 2022.




(a)

For employees covered by Plan Type A or B —
"total disability"
, as used in this Plan, means the complete inability, because of an
accident or illness, of a covered employee to perform all the duties
of his/her own occupation for the first 25 months of disability
except where accommodation has been made which enables an employee
to work




(i)

in his/her own occupation, or




(ii)

in a job other than his/her occupation.


Where accommodation has been made which enables an employee to
return to work, he/she will not be considered totally disabled and
the rate of pay shall be the rate for the job.


If the rate of pay for this job is less than the rate of pay of the
employee at the date of disability, the employee's salary will be
protected in accordance with the relevant provision of the
employee's collective agreement, or terms and conditions of
employment, at the employee's basic rate at the date of disability.


After the first two years (25 months for Plan Types A and B) of
total disability, where accommodation has been made that enables an
employee to return to a job other than his/her own occupation, the
employee will not be considered totally disabled and the basic rate
shall be the basic rate of the job or 75% of the basic rate of
his/her own occupation, whichever is greater.


After the first two years (25 months for Plan Types A and B) of
total disability, employees able, by reason of education, training
or experience, to perform the duties of a gainful occupation for
which the rate of pay is not less than 75% of the current rate of
pay of their regular occupation at the date of disability will not
be considered totally disabled and will therefore not be eligible
for benefits under this Long Term Disability Plan.




(b)

For employees covered by Plan Type D or E —
"total disability"
, as used in this Plan, means the complete inability, because of an
accident or sickness, of a covered employee to perform all the
duties of his or her own occupation for the first two years of
disability. After the first 2 years of total disability, employees
able by reason of education, training or experience, to perform the
duties of a gainful occupation for which the rate of pay is not less
than 75% of the current rate of pay of their regular occupation at
the date of disability will not be considered totally disabled and
will therefore not be eligible for benefits under this Long Term
Disability Plan.


For employees covered by Plan Type H,
"total disability"
, as used in this Plan, means the complete inability, because of an
accident or illness, of a covered employee to perform all the duties
of his or her own occupation for the first two years of disability.


For employees covered by Plan Type I,
"total disability"
, as used in this Plan, means the complete inability, because of
accident or illness, of a covered employee to perform all the duties
of his or her own occupation for the first two years (24 months) of
disability.


For employees covered by Plan Type J,
"total disability"
, as used in this Plan, means the complete inability, because of
accident or illness, of a covered employee to perform all the duties
of his or her own occupation.



Section 2.3 (e) (i) BEFORE amended by BC Reg 76/2022, effective
March 30, 2022.




(i)

For employees covered by Plan Type A, B, H or I — if an employee
becomes totally disabled and, during this period of total
disability, engages in rehabilitative employment, the employee may
earn in combination with benefits from this Plan up to 100% of
his/her earnings at the date of disability. In the event that income
from rehabilitative employment and the benefit paid under this Plan
exceed 100% of the employee's earnings at the date of disability,
the benefit from this Plan will be further reduced by the excess
amount.





Section 2.3 (b) BEFORE amended by BC Reg 208/2023, effective
September 11, 2023.




(b)

For employees covered by Plan Type D or E —
"total disability"
, as used in this Plan, means the complete inability, because of an
accident or sickness, of a covered employee to perform all the
duties of the employee's own occupation for the first two years of
disability. After the first 2 years of total disability, employees
able by reason of education, training or experience, to perform the
duties of a gainful occupation for which the rate of pay is not less
than 75% of the current rate of pay of their regular occupation at
the date of disability will not be considered totally disabled and
will therefore not be eligible for benefits under this Long Term
Disability Plan.


For employees covered by Plan Type H,
"total disability"
, as used in this Plan, means the complete inability, because of an
accident or illness, of a covered employee to perform all the duties
of the employee's own occupation for the first two years of
disability.


For employees covered by Plan Type I,
"total disability"
, as used in this Plan, means the complete inability, because of
accident or illness, of a covered employee to perform all the duties
of the employee's own occupation for the first two years (24 months)
of disability.


For employees covered by Plan Type J,
"total disability"
, as used in this Plan, means the complete inability, because of
accident or illness, of a covered employee to perform all the duties
of the employee's own occupation.



Section 2.3 (c) BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 208/2023, effective
September 11, 2023.




(c)

Total disability resulting from mental or nervous disorders are
covered by the plan in the same manner as total disability resulting
from accident or other sickness, except that an employee who is
totally disabled as a result of a mental or nervous disorder and who
has received 24 months (25 months for Plan Types A and B) of the
Long Term Disability Plan benefit must be confined to a hospital or
mental institution, or where they are at home, under the direct care
and supervision of a medical doctor, in order to continue to be
eligible for benefit payments.



Section 2.3 (e) (iv) and (v) BEFORE amended by BC Reg 208/2023,
effective September 11, 2023.




(iv)

The rehabilitative employment of a disabled employee will continue
until such time as the employee's earnings from rehabilitative
employment exceed 85% of the employee's earnings at the date of
disability but in no event for more than 24 months from the date
benefit payments commence.




(v)

If earnings are received by an employee during a period of total
disability and if such earnings are derived from employment which
has not been approved as rehabilitative employment by the employee's
doctor and the employer, then the regular monthly benefit from the
plan will be reduced by 100% of such earnings.





Section 2.4 (c) BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 208/2023, effective
September 11, 2023.




(c)

intentionally self-inflicted injuries or illness;



Section 2.4 (d) and (e) BEFORE amended by BC Reg 208/2023, effective
September 11, 2023.




(d)

for employees covered under Plan Types D and E pregnancy,
childbirth, miscarriage or abortion except severe complications
following termination of pregnancy (intention is no coverage for
normal pregnancy);




(e)

for employees covered by Plan Type D or E a disability known to the
employer and which was specifically taken into account by the
employer at time of hiring.





Section 2.5 BEFORE amended by BC Reg 208/2023, effective September
11, 2023.





Pre-existing conditions




2.5


An employee shall not be entitled to Long Term Disability benefits
from this plan if the employee's total disability resulted from an
accident, sickness or mental or nervous disorder with respect to
which medical treatment, services or supplies were received in the
ninety (90) day period prior to the date of hire unless the
employee has completed twelve (12) consecutive months of service
after the date of hire during which time the employee has not been
absent from work due to the aforementioned accident, sickness or
mental or nervous disorder with respect to which medical
treatment, services or supplies were received. This clause does
not apply to present employees who have been continuously employed
since April 1, 1987 (1977 for employees covered by Plan Type G).


[am. B.C. Regs. 386/99, App. 3, s. 3; 343/2002, s. 4.]






Section 2.6 (a) BEFORE amended by BC Reg 208/2023, effective
September 11, 2023.




(a)

In the event a totally disabled employee is entitled to any other
income as a result of the same accident, sickness, mental or nervous
disorder that caused the employee to be eligible to receive benefits
from this plan, the benefits from this plan will be reduced by one
hundred (100) percent of such other disability income.





Section 2.7 (c) BEFORE amended by BC Reg 208/2023, effective
September 11, 2023.




(c)

Should such an employee suffer a subsequent disability that is
unrelated to the previous disability and, provided the period during
which the employee returned to work is longer than one (1)
month, the subsequent disability shall be considered a new
disability and the employee shall be entitled to benefit payments in
accordance with the provisions of this plan. If the period during
which the employee returned to work is one (1) month or less,
the subsequent disability shall be deemed a continuation of the
preceding disability and the disabled employee shall be entitled to
benefit payments in accordance with the provisions of this plan.





Section 2.8 (a) (i) BEFORE amended by BC Reg 181/2020, effective
July 13, 2020.




(i)

at the end of the month in which the employee reaches his/her 65th
birthday (60th birthday for firefighters, correctional centre
employees and special constables of the Legislative Assembly);





Section 2.8 (a) (i) BEFORE amended by BC Reg 76/2022, effective
March 30, 2022.




(i)

at the end of the month in which the employee reaches his/her 65th
birthday (60th birthday for firefighters and correctional centre
employees);





Section 2.8 (b) BEFORE amended by BC Reg 208/2023, effective
September 11, 2023.




(b)

Benefits will not be paid when an employee is serving a prison
sentence.





Section 2.13 (c) BEFORE amended by BC Reg 208/2023, effective
September 11, 2023.




(c)

For employees covered by Plan Type D or E, written notice of an
appeal must be submitted to the Plan Administrator within 6 months
from the date the claim-paying agent rejects the claim.





Section 2.14 BEFORE amended by BC Reg 208/2023, effective September
11, 2023.





Physical examination




2.14


The employer, at its own expense, shall have the right and be
given the opportunity to have a medical doctor appointed by the
employer examine, as often as it may reasonably require, any
employee whose injury, sickness, mental or nervous disorder is the
basis of claim upon this plan.






Section 2.20 (part) BEFORE amended by BC Reg 76/2022, effective
March 30, 2022.


In the event that a regular employee becomes incapacitated through
accident or sickness and is unable to perform all the duties of
his/her own occupation, the following shall apply:



Section 2.20 (a) BEFORE amended by BC Reg 76/2022, effective March
30, 2022.




(a)

For the purpose of this section,
"incapacity"
shall mean where the employee is unable to perform all the duties of
his/her own occupation as defined in the Long Term Disability Plan.



Section 2.20 (b) (ii) BEFORE amended by BC Reg 76/2022, effective
March 30, 2022.




(ii)

make him/herself reasonably available and cooperate with a
reasonable rehabilitation/return to work process consistent with
Rehabilitation Committee principles,





Section 2.20 (b) (part) and (c) BEFORE amended by BC Reg 208/2023,
effective September 11, 2023.




(b)

Where the employee meets the definition in 2.20 (a) above, the
employer shall provide an employee with an application to the
Rehabilitation Committee (BCPSA 7 form). An employee who fails to




(c)

The application shall be completed and returned to the
ministry/employer who shall within 10 work days forward the
application to the secretary of the Rehabilitation Committee. The
committee members shall be provided with copies of the application.



Section 2.20 (b) (ii) BEFORE amended by BC Reg 208/2023, effective
September 11, 2023.




(ii)

be reasonably available and cooperate with a reasonable
rehabilitation/return to work process consistent with Rehabilitation
Committee principles,





Section 4 BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 208/2023, effective September
11, 2023.





Terms and conditions




4


The terms and conditions of the Long Term Disability Plan are
determined to be those contained in the Great-West Life Assurance
Company Contract 50028 and those specified in Part II of this
regulation.






Schedule A, item A (ww) BEFORE amended by BC Reg 15/2010, effective
January 15, 2010.


(ww) all eligible regular excluded employees of the British Columbia
Safety Authority;



Schedule A, item B (ee) BEFORE amended by BC Reg 15/2010, effective
January 15, 2010.


(ee) all eligible regular bargaining unit employees of the British
Columbia Safety Authority;





Schedule A, item A (g), (i), (t), (z), (kk) and (qq) BEFORE repealed
by BC Reg 31/2013, effective January 30, 2013.


(g) all eligible regular employees of the Judicial Development
Commission appointed under the
Justice Administration Act
;


(i) all eligible regular employees of the Law Reform Commission
appointed under the
Law Reform Commission Act
;


(t) all eligible regular B.C. Mental Health Society employees who
are excluded from the provisions of a collective agreement;


(z) all eligible regular excluded employees of the British Columbia
Housing Management Commission;


(kk) all eligible regular excluded employees of the Columbia Power
Corporation;


(qq) all eligible regular excluded employees of the Fraser River
Marine Transportation Limited (Albion Ferry Operations);



Schedule A, item A (fff) was added by BC Reg 31/2013, effective
January 30, 2013.



Schedule A, item B (e), (f), (h), (p), (t) and (bb) BEFORE repealed
by BC Reg 31/2013, effective January 30, 2013.


(e) all eligible regular B.C. Mental Health Society employees
represented by the B.C. Government and Service Employees' Union;


(f) all eligible regular B.C. Mental Health Society employees
represented by the Professional Employees' Association;


(h) all eligible regular bargaining unit employees of the British
Columbia Housing Management Commission;


(p) all eligible regular B.C. Mental Health Society employees
represented by the Union of Psychiatric Nurses;


(t) all eligible regular employees of the B.C. Mental Health Society
who are represented by the British Columbia Nurses' Union;


(bb) all eligible regular employees of the Fraser River Marine
Transportation Limited (Albion Ferry Operations);



Schedule A, item I (a) BEFORE amended by BC Reg 31/2013, effective
January 30, 2013.


(a) all eligible regular judges appointed under the
Provincial Court Act
, and



Schedule A, item J BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 31/2013, effective
January 30, 2013.


J
Plan Type I applies to judicial justices of the peace appointed
under the
Provincial Court Act
.





Schedule A, item A (d) BEFORE amended by BC Reg 145/2013, effective
April 1, 2013.


(d) all eligible regular employees of the Emergency Health Services
Commission;





Schedule A, items A (hh) and (pp) BEFORE repealed by BC Reg
155/2014, effective July 28, 2014.


(hh) all eligible regular excluded employees of the OBL Continuing
Care Society;


(pp) all eligible regular excluded employees of the Forensic
Psychiatric Services Commission;



Schedule A, items B (m), (q), (u) and (z) BEFORE repealed by BC Reg
155/2014, effective July 28, 2014.


(m) all eligible regular OBL Continuing Care Society employees
represented by the BC Government and Services Employees' Union;


(q) all eligible regular OBL Continuing Care Society employees
represented by the Union of Psychiatric Nurses;


(u) all eligible regular employees of the OBL Continuing Care
Society who are represented by the British Columbia Nurses' Union;


(z) all eligible regular bargaining unit employees of the Forensic
Psychiatric Services Commission;





Schedule A, items A (d), (gg) and (ii) BEFORE repealed by BC Reg
208/2023, effective September 11, 2023.




(d)

all eligible regular employees of British Columbia Emergency Health
Services;




(gg)

all eligible regular excluded employees of the Provincial Capital
Commission;




(ii)

all eligible regular excluded employees of the Tillicum and Veterans
Care Society;



Schedule A, items A (f), (ee) and (xx) BEFORE amended by BC Reg
208/2023, effective September 11, 2023.




(f)

all eligible regular officers and employees of the British Columbia
Innovation Council;




(ee)

all eligible regular excluded employees of the First People's
Heritage, Language and Cultural Council;




(xx)

all eligible regular excluded employees of Partnerships British
Columbia;



Schedule A, section A (ggg), (hhh), (iii) and (jjj) were added by BC
Reg 208/2023, effective September 11, 2023.



Schedule A, section B (d) BEFORE amended by BC Reg 208/2023,
effective September 11, 2023.




(d)

all eligible regular employees of the Queen's Printer;



Schedule A, items B (l), (n), (o), (r) and (v) BEFORE repealed by BC
Reg 208/2023, effective September 11, 2023.




(l)

all eligible regular bargaining unit employees of the Provincial
Capital Commission;




(n)

all eligible regular Tillicum and Veterans Care Society employees
represented by the BC Government and Service Employees' Union;




(o)

all regular public service employees who are represented by Union of
Psychiatric Nurses of British Columbia;




(r)

all eligible regular Broadmead Care Society employees represented by
the Union of Psychiatric Nurses;




(v)

all eligible regular employees of the Broadmead Care Society who are
represented by the British Columbia Nurses' Union;



Schedule A, section B (jj) was added by BC Reg 208/2023, effective
September 11, 2023.



Schedule A, section D BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 208/2023, effective
September 11, 2023.






D


Plan Type D applies to all eligible regular excluded employees of
British Columbia Ferry Services Inc. and Deas Pacific Marine
Corporation.




Schedule A, section E BEFORE amended by BC Reg 208/2023, effective
September 11, 2023.






E


Plan Type E applies to all eligible regular employees of British
Columbia Ferry Services Inc. and Deas Pacific Marine Corporation
as represented by the BC Ferry and Marine Workers Union.






