




"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Motor Vehicle Act

Vehicle Inspection Regulation
B.C. Reg. 256/2010






NOTE:

Links below go to regulation content as it was prior to the
changes made on the effective date. (PIT covers changes made
from September 19, 2009 to "current to" date of the
regulation.)




SECTION
EFFECTIVE DATE


Schedule

June 3, 2016





March 1, 2018









Schedule BEFORE amended by BC Reg 128/2016, effective June 3, 2016.



Schedule



The Schedule is exempt from publication and may be inspected
during regular office hours at the offices of the Commercial
Vehicle Safety and Enforcement Branch, 3A - 940 Blanshard Street,
Victoria, B.C. V8W 2H3 or viewed online through all public
libraries within B.C. and at all Service BC Centres. A
subscription for online access can be obtained through Queen's
Printer to access the manual for an annual fee of $25 at the
following link: http://www.vsis.ca. Printed copies can also be
ordered from Queen's Printer at http://www.crownpub.bc.ca.






Schedule BEFORE re-enacted by BC Reg 24/2018, effective March 1,
2018.



Schedule


[en. B.C. Reg. 128/2016.]



The Schedule is exempt from publication and may be viewed during
regular office hours at the offices of the Commercial Vehicle
Safety and Enforcement Branch, 3A - 940 Blanshard Street,
Victoria, B.C. V8W 2H3. A subscription for online access can be
obtained through Queen's Printer to access the manual for an
annual fee of $25 at the following link: http://www.vsis.ca.
Printed copies can also be ordered from Queen's Printer at
www.crownpub.bc.ca.






