




"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Guide Dog and Service Dog Act

Guide Dog and Service Dog Regulation
B.C. Reg. 223/2015






NOTE:

Links below go to regulation content as it was prior to the
changes made on the effective date. (PIT covers changes made
from September 19, 2009 to "current to" date of the
regulation.)




SECTION
EFFECTIVE DATE


Section 1

July 9, 2021





June 26, 2023



Section 1.1

July 9, 2021



Section 1.2

July 9, 2021



Part 1

July 9, 2021



Section 2

March 1, 2017



Section 3

June 26, 2023



Section 4

June 26, 2023



Section 8

July 9, 2021



Section 9

July 9, 2021



Section 10

July 9, 2021



Section 12

July 9, 2021



Section 13

July 9, 2021









Section 1, definition of "accredited training school" (part) BEFORE
amended by BC Reg 188/2021, effective July 9, 2021.



"accredited training school"

means an organization that provides training programs respecting
guide dogs or service dogs and is accredited by one or both of the
following organizations:



Section 1, definition of "dog-in-training certificate" BEFORE
repealed by BC Reg 188/2021, effective July 9, 2021.



"dog-in-training certificate"

means a certificate referred to in section 5 (1) (d) of the Act;



Section 1, definitions of "identification card" and "photograph"
were added by BC Reg 188/2021, effective July 9, 2021.





Section 1, definition of "approved assesment organization" was added
by BC Reg 164/2023, effective June 26, 2023.



Section 1, definition of "BC guide dog and service dog assessment"
BEFORE amended by BC Reg 164/2023, effective June 26, 2023.



"BC guide dog and service dog assessment"

means a BC guide dog and service dog assessment that is approved by
the registrar and administered by the Justice Institute of British
Columbia;





Section 1.1 was enacted by BC Reg 188/2021, effective July 9, 2021.





Section 1.2 was enacted by BC Reg 188/2021, effective July 9, 2021.





Part 1 BEFORE re-enacted by BC Reg 188/2021, effective July 9, 2021.



Part 1 — Issuance and Renewal of Certificates





Issuance of guide dog team certificate or service dog team
certificate




2

(1)


In this section:



"accredited practice facility"

means the location, premises, structure or vehicle from which a
person registered under the
Veterinarians Act
provides veterinary medicine services and that is accredited by
the College of Veterinarians of British Columbia, and includes any
equipment, supplies, records or documentation used in that
facility;



"medical practitioner"

includes an individual that the registrar is satisfied is
authorized, under an enactment of a jurisdiction of Canada other
than British Columbia or a jurisdiction of the United States of
America, to practise medicine in a capacity that is at least
equivalent to that of a medical practitioner in British Columbia;



"nurse practitioner"

includes an individual that the registrar is satisfied is
authorized, under an enactment of a jurisdiction of Canada other
than British Columbia or a jurisdiction of the United States of
America, to practise nursing in a capacity that is at least
equivalent to that of a nurse practitioner in British Columbia;



"veterinarian"

means




(a)

an individual who is




(i)

authorized under the
Veterinarians Act
to practise veterinary medicine, and




(ii)

actively practising veterinary medicine at an accredited practice
facility, or




(b)

an individual that the registrar is satisfied is




(i)

authorized, under an enactment of a jurisdiction of Canada other
than British Columbia or a jurisdiction of the United States of
America, to practise veterinary medicine in a capacity that is at
least equivalent to that of a veterinarian authorized under the
Veterinarians Act
to practise veterinary medicine, and




(ii)

actively practising veterinary medicine in a facility that is at
least equivalent to an accredited practice facility.




(2)

The registrar must not issue a guide dog team certificate or a
service dog team certificate unless




(a)

subject to subsection (3), the individual and the dog identified
in the certificate have together successfully completed either




(i)

a guide dog or service dog training program, as the case may be,
provided by an accredited training school, or




(ii)

a BC guide dog and service dog assessment, and




(b)

the dog has been spayed or neutered.




(3)

For the purposes of subsection (2) (a),




(a)

subject to subsection (4), a training program referred to in
subsection (2) (a) (i) must be completed not more than 90 days
before the date the application for issuance of the certificate is
received by the registrar, and




(b)

a BC guide dog and service dog assessment referred to in
subsection (2) (a) (ii) must be completed not more than 90 days
after the date the application for issuance of the certificate is
received by the registrar.




(4)

Subsection (3) (a) does not apply if the individual and the dog
referred to in subsection (2) (a) do not reside in British
Columbia.




(5)

If an individual and a dog that will be identified in a
certificate referred to in subsection (2) have together
successfully completed a training program referred to in
subsection (2) (a) (i), the application for the issuance
of the certificate must include or be accompanied by, in a form
satisfactory to the registrar,




(a)

a photograph of the individual, and




(b)

written confirmation from the accredited training school that the
individual and the dog together successfully completed the
training program.




(6)

If an individual and a dog that will be identified in a
certificate referred to in subsection (2) have not together
successfully completed a training program referred to in
subsection (2) (a) (i), the application for the issuance of
the certificate must include or be accompanied by, in a form
satisfactory to the registrar,




(a)

a photograph of the individual,




(b)

written confirmation from a medical practitioner or a nurse
practitioner that the individual is a blind person or a person
with a disability, as the case may be, and




(c)

written confirmation from a veterinarian that the dog has been
spayed or neutered.




(7)

Subsection (2) does not apply to the issuance of a certificate
under section 12 (2) (b) of the Act.

[am. B.C. Reg. 58/2017, ss. 1 and 2.]





Renewal of guide dog team certificate or service dog team
certificate




3

(1)


The registrar must not renew a guide dog team certificate or a
service dog team certificate unless, subject to subsection (2),
the individual and the dog identified in the certificate have
together successfully completed either




(a)

an assessment administered by an accredited training school, or




(b)

a BC guide dog and service dog assessment.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1), the assessment referred to in
that subsection must be completed not more than 90 days before the
date the application for renewal of the certificate is received by
the registrar.




(3)

An application for the renewal of a guide dog team certificate or
a service dog team certificate must include or be accompanied by,
in a form satisfactory to the registrar,




(a)

a photograph of the individual who will be identified in the
certificate, and




(b)

in the case of an individual and a dog that have together
successfully completed an assessment referred to in subsection (1)
(a), written confirmation from the accredited training school that
the individual and the dog together successfully completed the
assessment.




(4)

Subsection (1) does not apply to the renewal of a certificate
referred to in section 12 (1) (a) (iii) or (b) (iii) of the Act or
issued under section 12 (2) (b) of the Act.






Dog trainer certificate




4

(1)


The registrar must not issue or renew a dog trainer certificate
unless the individual who will be identified in the certificate
trains dogs on behalf of an accredited training school for the
purpose of the dogs becoming guide dogs or service dogs.




(2)

An application for the issuance or renewal of a dog trainer
certificate must include or be accompanied by, in a form
satisfactory to the registrar,




(a)

a photograph of the individual who will be identified in the
certificate, and




(b)

written confirmation from the accredited training school referred
to in subsection (1) that the individual meets or continues to
meet, as the case may be, the requirement described in that
subsection.






Dog-in-training certificate




5

(1)


The registrar must not issue or renew a dog-in-training
certificate in respect of a dog unless




(a)

the applicant is an authorized representative of an accredited
training school, and




(b)

the dog is being, or will be, trained by a dog trainer on behalf
of the accredited training school for the purpose of the dog
becoming a guide dog or a service dog.




(2)

An application for the issuance or renewal of a dog-in-training
certificate must include or be accompanied by, in a form
satisfactory to the registrar, written confirmation from the
accredited training school referred to in subsection (1) (a) that
the dog referred to in subsection (1) meets or continues to meet,
as the case may be, the requirement described in
subsection (1) (b).






Retired guide or service dog team certificate




6

(1)


An application for the issuance of a retired guide or service dog
team certificate, in respect of an individual and a dog, must
include or be accompanied by




(a)

a photograph, in a form satisfactory to the registrar, of the
individual who will be identified in the certificate, and




(b)

the guide dog team certificate or service dog team certificate, as
the case may be, previously issued under section 6 of the Act in
respect of the individual and the dog.




(2)

An application for the renewal of a retired guide or service dog
team certificate must include or be accompanied by, in a form
satisfactory to the registrar, a photograph of the individual who
will be identified in the certificate.






Section 2 (1) BEFORE amended by BC Reg 58/2017, effective March 1,
2017.




(1)

In this section,
"registered veterinarian"
means an individual who is authorized under the
Veterinarians Act
to practise veterinary medicine.



Section 2 (6) (c) BEFORE amended by BC Reg 58/2017, effective March
1, 2017.




(c)

written confirmation from a registered veterinarian that the dog has
been spayed or neutered.





Section 3 (2) (b) BEFORE amended by BC Reg 164/2023, effective June
26, 2023.




(b)

the registrar receives written confirmation from the Justice
Institute of British Columbia that the requirements described in
paragraph (a) and subsection (3) have been met, and





Section 4 (3) (c) BEFORE amended by BC Reg 164/2023, effective June
26, 2023.




(c)

the registrar must receive written confirmation from the Justice
Institute of British Columbia that the requirements described in
paragraph (a) have been met.





Section 8 (2) (a) BEFORE amended by BC Reg 188/2021, effective July
9, 2021.




(a)

an assessment administered by an accredited training school, or





Section 9 BEFORE amended by BC Reg 188/2021, effective July 9, 2021.





Dog trainer certificates




9


It is a term and condition of every dog trainer certificate issued
or renewed under section 6 of the Act that the holder of the
certificate must, within 30 days after the occurrence, report to
the registrar that the holder of the dog trainer certificate no
longer trains dogs on behalf of the accredited training school
referred to in the application for issuance of the certificate.






Section 10 BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 188/2021, effective July 9,
2021.





Dog-in-training certificates




10


It is a term and condition of every dog-in-training certificate
issued or renewed under section 6 of the Act that the holder of
the certificate must, within 30 days after the occurrence, report
to the registrar that the dog identified in the certificate has
been permanently or indefinitely removed from the training program
of the accredited training school referred to in the application
for issuance of the certificate.






Section 12 (1) and (2) BEFORE amended by BC Reg 188/2021, effective
July 9, 2021.




(1)

The registrar may cancel or refuse to renew a guide dog team
certificate, a service dog team certificate or a dog-in-training
certificate if the registrar is satisfied that the dog identified in
the certificate acted or behaved, during the exercise of the right
of entry and use specified in section 2 (1) of the Act, in a manner
that threatened the safety of a person or another animal.




(2)

The registrar may cancel a dog trainer certificate if the registrar
is satisfied that the holder of the dog trainer certificate no
longer trains dogs on behalf of the accredited training school
referred to in the application for issuance of the certificate.



Section 12 (3) BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 188/2021, effective July 9,
2021.




(3)

The registrar may cancel a dog-in-training certificate if the
registrar is satisfied that the dog identified in the certificate is
permanently or indefinitely removed from the training program of the
accredited training school referred to in the application for
issuance of the certificate.





Section 13 (2) (a) BEFORE amended by BC Reg 188/2021, effective July
9, 2021.




(a)

the registrar has reasonable grounds to believe that the guide dog,
service dog or dog-in-training identified in the certificate poses a
risk to the safety of persons or other animals, or





