




"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Assessment Act


Physical Inventory Disclosure Regulation

B.C. Reg. 434/98





Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 52/2016, effective March 2,
2016.





B.C. Reg. 434/98

O.C. 1513/98


Deposited December 10, 1998






Assessment Act


Physical Inventory Disclosure Regulation


[includes amendments up to B.C. Reg. 292/2007, September 24, 2007]






Definitions




1


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the
Assessment Act
;


"owner"
means the owner of a property that is a single family residence,
and includes an agent of the owner;



"physical inventory information"

means information set out in items 1 and 2 of the Schedule;



"single family residence"

includes a single family dwelling, a duplex, a single family
condominium unit, a manufactured home and a summer or seasonal
dwelling.






Disclosure of physical inventory information




2

(1)


On the request of




(a)

an owner who is reviewing the assessment for a property that is a
single family residence to determine whether or not to file a
notice of complaint under section 33 of the Act,




(b)

an owner who has filed a notice of complaint under section 33 of
the Act in respect of a property that is a single family
residence, or




(c)

an owner who has filed a notice of appeal under section 50 of the
Act in respect of a property that is a single family residence,


the assessment authority must disclose physical inventory
information in respect of that property if that information is
contained in the assessment authority's records.




(2)

In addition to the physical inventory information described in
subsection (1), the owner is also entitled, on his or her request,
to provision of physical inventory information in respect of 4
other comparable properties, identified by that owner, if that
information is contained in the assessment authority's records.

[am. B.C. Reg. 292/2007, ss. 2 and 6.]





Information to be provided free of charge




3


Information provided to an owner on request under section 2 (1) or
(2) must be provided free of charge if the owner's request is made
within the following time limits:




(a)

if the request is made by an owner described in subsection (1)
(a), the request must be made before January 31 of the year
following the year in which the relevant assessment roll is
completed under section 3 of the Act or amended under section 12
of the Act, as the case may be;




(b)

if the request is made by an owner described in section 2 (1) (b),
the request must be made before March 15 of the year following the
year in which the relevant assessment roll is completed under
section 3 of the Act or changed or amended under section 12 of the
Act, as the case may be.




(c)

if the request is made by an owner described in section 2 (1) (c),
the request must be made before the appeal to the board is heard.




Schedule


Physical Inventory Information


1
Land


• area or dimensions


• location


2
Buildings


• general description


• total finished area


• year built


• effective year


• number of stories


• number of bedrooms


• number of bathrooms


• basement


• outbuildings


[Provisions of the
Assessment Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 20, relevant to the enactment of this
regulation: sections 16 (6) and 74]





