




“Point in Time” Act Content
CRESTON VALLEY WILDLIFE ACT
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 84






NOTE:

Links below go to act content as it was prior to the changes
made on the effective date. (PIT covers changes made from
September 6, 2000 to "current to" date of the act.)




SECTION
EFFECTIVE DATE


1

December 31, 2004



5

February 29, 2016



6

February 29, 2016





February 29, 2016



9

December 1, 2007



16

December 1, 2007



20

April 4, 2003



21

November 2, 2017



Schedule

April 21, 1997

[retro from October 31, 2018]









Section 1 BEFORE amended by 2004-44-100, effective December 31, 2004
(BC Reg 547/2004).


"arterial highway"
means an arterial highway as defined in section 27 of the
Highway Act
;





Section 5 (2) BEFORE amended by 2014-15-149, effective February 29,
2016 (BC Reg 35/2016).




(2)

No person may exercise, within the management area, any right
granted by licence, permit or otherwise under the
Water Act
, except under a permit issued by the management authority.





Section 6 (2) BEFORE amended by 2014-15-150, effective February 29,
2016 (BC Reg 35/2016).




(2)

Nothing in section 5 affects any right under the
Water Act
, or any statutory licence to cut, gather, remove or exploit any
natural resource other than wildlife, and exercisable within the
management area, that subsisted immediately before November 15,
1968.





Section 6 (2.1) was added by 2014-15-150, effective February 29,
2016 (BC Reg 35/2016).





Section 9 (2) BEFORE amended by 2007-14-204,Sch, effective December
1, 2007 (BC Reg 354/2007).


(2)  If a licence, permit or other authorization under another
Act is issued by the management authority in exercise of a power
conferred by regulations under this section, the authority may annex
to it any term, condition or restriction that may be annexed to a
permit by this Act or the regulations.





Section 16 (3) BEFORE amended by 2007-14-201,Sch, effective December
1, 2007 (BC Reg 354/2007).


(3)  In the absence or inability to act of a member appointed
by or under subsection (1), the relevant appointing authority
may appoint a temporary member in his or her place.





Section 20 (6) BEFORE amended by 2003-2-29, effective April 4, 2003
(BC Reg 160/2003).


(6)  The accounts of the trust fund must be audited annually by
the Auditor General.





Section 21 (1) BEFORE amended by 2017-10-60,Sch 1, effective
November 2, 2017 (Royal Assent).




(1)

The management authority is not liable to taxation except in so far
as the government is taxable.





Schedule BEFORE amended by 2018-39-8, effective April 21, 1997
[retro from October 31, 2018 (Royal Assent)].



Schedule


All that area of land included within the following boundaries:


Commencing at the southwest corner of Block 142 of Lot 9427,
Kootenay District, Plan B44; thence northerly along the westerly
boundary of said Block 142 to the southerly boundary of Lot 9638,
being the right of way of the B.C. Southern Railway, Plan 524
X2
; thence in a general northwesterly direction following the
southerly and southwesterly boundaries of Lot 9638, Plan 524
X2
, and, where they lie to the West of Lot 9638, following the
westerly boundaries of Blocks 152, 154, 192, 193, 155 and 162 of
Lots 9427 and 9550, as shown on Plans B44, B45 and B46, to the
southerly boundary of Lot 893; thence westerly and northerly along
the southerly and westerly boundaries of said Lot 893 to the most
southerly corner of Lot 9639, being the right of way of the B.C.
Southern Railway, Plan 524
X2
; thence northwesterly along the southwesterly boundary of Lot 9639,
Plan 524
X2
, to the most southerly corner of Block 195 of Lot 9428, Plan B46,
and continuing northwesterly along the westerly boundaries of said
Block 195, Plan B46, and Lot 9642, being the right of way of the
B.C. Southern Railway, Plan 524
X1
, to a point due South of the southwest corner of Lot 8179; thence
North to said corner and continuing northerly along the western
boundary of said Lot 8179 to the northwest corner thereof, being a
point on the southerly boundary of Lot 883; thence easterly along
said southerly boundary of Lot 883 to a point perpendicularly
distant 50 feet southwesterly from the centre line of Highway 3A;
thence northerly, parallel to and perpendicularly distant 50 feet
westerly from the centre line of Highway 3A, to a point bearing N
45º E from triangulation station "Kusk"; thence S 45º W to said
triangulation station, and continuing on a bearing of S 45º W to the
northeasterly boundary of Sublot 1 of Lot 2381, Plan X74; thence in
a general southerly direction following the easterly boundaries of
said Sublot 1 of Lot 2381, Plan X74, to the southeast corner
thereof; thence due South to the northerly boundary of Lot 9268;
thence easterly and southerly along the northerly and easterly
boundaries of Lot 9268 to the northeast corner of Lot 8781; thence
southerly and westerly along the easterly and southerly boundaries
of Lot 8781 to the northeast corner of Lot 8783; thence southerly
along the easterly boundary of Lot 8783 to the northwest corner of
Lot 9559; thence easterly along the northerly boundary of Lot 9559
to the northeast corner thereof; thence southerly, southwesterly and
southerly along the easterly boundaries of Lots 9559, 8779 and 8782
to the southeast corner of said Lot 8782; thence westerly along the
southerly boundary of said Lot 8782 to the easterly boundary of Lot
9270; thence northerly, westerly and southerly along the easterly,
northerly and westerly boundaries of said Lot 9270 to the southwest
corner thereof; thence easterly along the southerly boundary of Lot
9270 a distance of 15 chains; thence due South 10 chains; thence due
East to the westerly boundary of Lot 9269; thence northerly along
said westerly boundary of Lot 9269 to its intersection with the
northerly limit of the British Columbia Highway as shown on Plan
R233; thence southeasterly along said northerly limit as shown on
Plan R233 to the easterly boundary of Lot 9269; thence southerly
along the said easterly boundary to the southeast corner of Lot
9269; thence westerly along the southerly boundary of Lot 9269 to
the most easterly northeast corner of Lot 10767; thence southerly
along the easterly boundary of said Lot 10767 to the northwest
corner of Lot 8972; thence southerly along the westerly boundaries
of Lots 8972 and 8973 to the southwest corner of Lot 8 of said Lot
8973, Plan 1098; thence easterly along the southerly boundary of
said Lot 8 of Lot 8973, Plan 1098, to the southeast corner thereof;
thence northerly along the easterly boundary of Lot 8973 to the most
northerly corner of Lot 9558; thence southeasterly along the
easterly boundaries of Lot 9558 to the southeast corner thereof;
thence westerly along the southerly boundary of Lot 9558 to the most
southerly southwest corner thereof; thence southerly along the
westerly boundary of Timber Licence 7144P to a point due West of the
most westerly corner of Lot 818; thence East to said corner; thence
northeasterly along the northwesterly boundary of said Lot 818,
being the right bank of Corn Creek, to the most northerly corner of
said Lot 818; thence southeasterly along the northeasterly boundary
of Lot 818 to the most northerly corner of Lot 12548; thence
southeasterly along the northeasterly boundary of said Lot 12548 to
the most easterly corner thereof; thence southeasterly along the
northeasterly boundary of Lot 818 to the southeast corner thereof;
thence in a general easterly direction along the northerly limit of
a road right of way shown on Plan RS 3252 on file in the Ministry of
Transportation and Highways in Victoria to the intersection of said
northerly limit with the southerly boundary of Timber Licence 7144P;
thence easterly along the southerly boundary of said Timber Licence
7144P to the southEast corner thereof, being a point on the westerly
boundary of Lot 9999, Indian Reserve 1C; thence northerly and
easterly along the westerly and northerly boundaries of Lot 9999 to
the southwest corner of Lot 14878; thence in a general northerly
direction along the westerly and northerly boundaries of Lot 14878
to the most northerly corner thereof, being a point on the left bank
of the Kootenay River; thence in a general northerly direction
following said left bank of the Kootenay River to a point due South
of the most southerly southeast corner of Lot 15818; thence North to
said corner and continuing northerly along the easterly boundary of
Lot 15818 to the most southerly northeast corner thereof; thence in
a general northwesterly direction following the easterly boundary of
Lot 15818 to the northwest corner of Lot 2 of Lot 15150, as shown on
Plan 4083; thence easterly along the northerly boundary of said Lot
2 of Lot 15150, Plan 4083, to the northwest corner of Lot 3 of Lot
15150, Plan 4083; thence southerly and easterly along the westerly
and southerly boundaries of said Lot 3 of Lot 15150, Plan 4083, to
the southerly boundary of Lot 15818; thence in a general easterly
direction following the southerly boundary of said Lot 15818 to the
most northerly southeast corner thereof; thence in a general
southeasterly direction following the northeasterly boundary of Lot
15150 to the southwest corner of Block 142 of Lot 9427, as shown on
Plan B44, being the point of commencement; the whole of which is
outlined in red on the plan numbered 16, Tube 842, deposited in the
office of the Surveyor General, and all that land included within
the following boundaries: commencing at the southwest corner of
Block 6A or Lot 774, Kootenay District, Plan 1908, being a point on
the International Boundary; thence northerly along the westerly
boundary of said Block 6A to the southwest corner of Block 6B of Lot
774, Plan 1908, being the right of way of Reclamation Road; thence
northeasterly and north-northeasterly along the southeasterly
boundary of said Block 6B to the northwest corner of Block 6A of Lot
774, Plan 1908; thence in a general easterly direction along the
northerly boundary of Block 6A of Lot 774, Plan 1908, being the
southerly boundary of Block 6 of Lot 774, Plan 1908, to the
northeast corner of Block 6A of Lot 774, Plan 1908, being the
southeast corner of Block 6 of Lot 774, Plan 1908; thence in a
general southeasterly direction along the southwesterly boundary of
Block 5 of Lot 774, Plan 1908, to the most easterly corner of Block
6A of Lot 774, Plan 1908, being the most northwesterly corner of
Block 13A of Lot 774, Plan 1908; thence southwesterly and southerly
along the southeasterly boundary of Block 6A of Lot 774, Plan 1908,
to a point on the International Boundary, being the most
southwesterly corner of Block 13A of Lot 774, Plan 1908; thence due
West along the International Boundary, being the southerly boundary
of Block 6A of Lot 774, Plan 1908, to the southwest corner of Block
6A of Lot 774, Plan 1908, being the point of commencement; the whole
being Block 6A of Lot 774, Plan 1908, Kootenay District.





