




"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Forest Act


BC Timber Sales Business Areas Regulation

B.C. Reg. 243/2003






NOTE:

Links below go to regulation content as it was prior to the
changes made on the effective date. (PIT covers changes made
from September 19, 2009 to "current to" date of the
regulation.)




SECTION
EFFECTIVE DATE


Regulation

June 26, 2020



Schedule

April 1, 2016









Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 152/2020, effective June 26,
2020.





B.C. Reg. 243/2003

O.C. 633/2003


Deposited June 20, 2003






Forest Act


BC Timber Sales Business Areas Regulation





BC Timber Sales Business Areas established




1

(1)


The Babine BC timber sales business area is established as shown
on the attached map titled "Babine BC timber sales business area".




(2)

The Cariboo-Chilcotin BC timber sales business area is established
as shown on the attached map titled "Cariboo-Chilcotin BC timber
sales business area".




(3)

The Chinook BC timber sales business area is established as shown
on the attached map titled "Chinook BC timber sales business
area".




(4)

The Kamloops BC timber sales business area is established as shown
on the attached map titled "Kamloops BC timber sales business
area".




(5)

The Kootenay BC timber sales business area is established as shown
on the attached map titled "Kootenay BC timber sales business
area".




(6)

The Okanagan-Columbia BC timber sales business area is established
as shown on the attached map titled "Okanagan-Columbia BC timber
sales business area".




(7)

The Peace-Liard BC timber sales business area is established as
shown on the attached map titled "Peace-Liard BC timber sales
business area".




(8)

The Prince George BC timber sales business area is established as
shown on the attached map titled "Prince George BC timber sales
business area".




(9)

The Seaward/tlasta BC timber sales business area is established as
shown on the attached map titled "Seaward/tlasta BC timber sales
business area".




(10)

The Skeena BC timber sales business area is established as shown
on the attached map titled "Skeena BC timber sales business area".




(11)

The Strait of Georgia BC timber sales business area is established
as shown on the attached map titled "Strait of Georgia BC timber
sales business area".




(12)

The Stuart-Nechako BC timber sales business area is established as
shown on the attached map titled "Stuart-Nechako BC timber sales
business area".




Maps


[am. B.C. Regs. 147/2005; 88/2016.]



The maps accompanying this regulation are exempt from publication
and may be seen at

the J.T. Fyles Natural Resources Library, 1810 Blanshard St., Main
Floor,

Victoria, B.C. V8W 9N3. Call Number: 346.04675 B849 2016.



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Forest Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 157, section 151.1]





Schedule exemption note BEFORE amended by BC Reg 88/2016, effective
April 1, 2016.



Maps


[am. B.C. Reg. 147/2005.]



The maps accompanying this regulation are exempt from publication
and may be seen at

the Registries Department, Surveyor General Branch, Ministry of
Sustainable Resource Management,

#3 - 3400 Davidson Avenue, Victoria, B.C. V8W 9M5.






