




"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Utilities Commission Act


Direction Respecting Liquefied Natural Gas Customers

B.C. Reg. 150/2016





Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 197/2018, effective October 2,
2018.





B.C. Reg. 150/2016

O.C.397/2016


Deposited June 10, 2016






Utilities Commission Act


Direction Respecting Liquefied Natural Gas Customers





Definitions




1


In this direction:


"Act"
means the
Utilities Commission Act
;



"LNG customer"

means a customer who receives from the authority transmission
service;



"LNG facility"

means




(a)

a facility to liquefy natural gas that begins commercial
operations after this direction comes into force, and




(b)

an expansion to a facility to increase the facility's capacity to
liquefy natural gas, if the expanded facility begins commercial
operations after this direction comes into force;



"transmission service"

means an electricity supply of 60 kV or higher provided by the
authority for the operation of an LNG facility.






Application




2


This direction is issued to the commission under section 3 of the
Act.






Rates




3

(1)


The commission must set as a rate each of the following agreements
within 10 days of the date the authority submits the agreement to
the commission:




(a)

the agreement, dated March 30, 2015, entitled "Electricity Supply
Agreement" between British Columbia Hydro and Power Authority and
FortisBC Energy Inc.;




(b)

the agreement, dated March 30, 2015, entitled "Load
Interconnection Agreement" between British Columbia Hydro and
Power Authority and FortisBC Energy Inc.




(2)

The commission may not do the following:




(a)

cancel, suspend or amend the rates set under subsection (1),
except on application by the authority;




(b)

set any rates for transmission service, other than the rates set
under subsection (1) or as directed under section 3 of the Act,
for LNG customers.




(3)

The commission, as soon as practicable after this direction comes
into force, must issue an order so that the authority amends rate
schedules 1823, 1825, 1827 and 1852 to include the following
provision:



Transmission service, within the meaning of the Direction
Respecting Liquefied Natural Gas Customers, may not be provided
under this rate schedule.




(4)

The commission must not repeal, suspend or amend the provision
referred to in subsection (3), except on application by the
authority.



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Utilities Commission Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 473, section 3]





