




"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Oil and Gas Activities Act

Emergency Management Regulation
B.C. Reg. 204/2013





Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 217/2017, effective March 1,
2018.





B.C. Reg. 204/2013

Oil and Gas Commission


Deposited September 26, 2013

effective October 1, 2014





Oil and Gas Activities Act


Emergency Management Regulation




Part 1 — Definitions and Application





Definitions




1


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the
Oil and Gas Activities Act
;



"applicant"

means a person who intends to submit or has submitted an
application under section 24 of the Act for a permit to carry out
an oil and gas activity to which this regulation applies;



"arterial highway"

has the same meaning as in section 1 of the
Transportation Act
;



"contact information"

means




(a)

a telephone number at which a person can be contacted, and




(b)

an email address at which a person can be contacted, unless the
person does not have such an address;



"emergency"

means an incident classified in accordance with section 12 as a
level 1, 2 or 3 incident that requires action by the permit holder
to protect persons, property or the environment;



"emergency planning zone"

means a geographical area that encompasses all the hazard planning
zones for an oil and gas activity that is the subject of a plan;



"hazard planning distance"

means a hazard planning distance within the meaning of section 5;



"hazard planning zone"

means a geographical area




(a)

determined by using the hazard planning distance as a radius, and




(b)

within which persons, property or the environment may be affected
by an emergency;


"incident"
means a present or imminent event or circumstance, resulting from
an oil and gas activity that is the subject of a plan, that




(a)

is outside the scope of normal operations, and




(b)

may or may not be an emergency;



"local authority"

has the same meaning as in section 1 of the Consultation and
Notification Regulation, B.C. Reg. 279/2010;



"municipal highway"

has the same meaning as in section 1 of the
Transportation Act
;



"oil and gas road"

has the same meaning as in the Oil and Gas Road Regulation, B.C.
Reg. 56/2013;


"plan"
means a response contingency plan within the meaning of section 7
and includes, except in sections 7 and 8, a supplementary plan;


"program"
means an emergency response program within the meaning of
section 4;



"rights holder"

has the same meaning as in section 1 of the Consultation and
Notification Regulation;



"supplementary plan"

means a supplementary response contingency plan within the meaning
of section 8.






Application




2


This regulation does not apply to permit holders carrying out the
following oil and gas activities:




(a)

geophysical exploration;




(b)

the drilling, operation or abandonment of a water source well;




(c)

the construction or maintenance of an oil and gas road;




(d)

the construction, operation or maintenance of a liquefied natural
gas facility.




Part 2 — Information Requirements





Obligation to provide information




3

(1)


Before submitting a plan to the commission, an applicant or permit
holder must give the information set out in subsection (2) to the
following persons or other entities:




(a)

a person who occupies land within the emergency planning zone;




(b)

a local authority, if any part of the emergency planning zone is
located within the local authority;




(c)

the government of Canada, if an existing building or structure
owned by the government of Canada is within the emergency planning
zone;




(d)

a First Nation, if all or a portion of the First Nation's Indian
reserve is located within the emergency planning zone;




(e)

a rights holder, if an area subject to a right of the rights
holder is located within the emergency planning zone;




(f)

the ministry of the minister responsible for the administration of
the
Transportation Act
and the municipal council, if any part of the emergency planning
zone is located within a municipality and within the right of way
of an arterial highway or municipal highway.




(2)

The information given under subsection (1) must include all of the
following:




(a)

the name and contact information of the applicant or permit
holder;




(b)

a map that shows the location of the emergency planning zone in
relation to roads, including oil and gas roads, dwellings, schools
and public facilities;




(c)

a description of




(i)

the site-specific hazards and risks of the oil and gas activity
that is the subject of the plan,




(ii)

how the applicant's or permit holder's response to an emergency
may affect the person or other entity receiving the information,




(iii)

how the applicant or permit holder will notify the person or other
entity receiving the information if and when the applicant or
permit holder thinks the person or other entity should shelter in
place or evacuate in an emergency, and




(iv)

how the person or other entity receiving the information can get
to safety in an emergency;




(d)

a statement requesting that the person or other entity receiving
the information provide to the applicant or permit holder




(i)

the name and contact information of a contact person, and




(ii)

a description of how the person or other entity may be affected by
an emergency.




(3)

If an applicant or permit holder receives a response to a request
under subsection (2) (d) (ii) before submitting a plan to the
commission, the applicant or permit holder must consider the
response in the preparation of the plan.




Part 3 — Programs and Plans





Emergency response program




4

(1)


A program is prescribed for the purposes of section 38 (1) (b) of
the Act.




(2)

A permit holder must prepare and maintain a program that




(a)

coordinates the permit holder's plans,




(b)

requires the permit holder to conduct training and emergency
response exercise programs for all emergency response staff to
whom powers and duties are assigned in accordance with the
emergency management system set out in section 7 (3) (d), and




(c)

requires the permit holder to evaluate the response to an
emergency in accordance with section 14.




(3)

A permit holder must ensure a program coordinator implements the
program.




(4)

A permit holder must submit to the commission the name and contact
information of the program coordinator referred to in subsection
(3).




(5)

If there is any change in the information referred to in
subsection (4), the permit holder must submit updated information
to the commission as soon as possible.




(6)

A permit holder must review and, if necessary, update the program




(a)

at least once every 3 years,




(b)

after a significant change occurs in the types of hazards and
risks arising from the permit holder's oil and gas activities that
are the subject of the plans, and




(c)

after an evaluation of the response to a level 3 incident is
completed under section 14.




(7)

A permit holder must maintain written records of the permit
holder's program until the permit holder ceases to carry out any
oil and gas activities for which a plan is required.




(8)

The records referred to in subsection (7) are prescribed for the
purposes of section 38 (1) (a) of the Act.






Hazard planning distances




5

(1)


For the purpose of this regulation, hazard planning distances are




(a)

horizontal distances, and




(b)

measured from the site of an oil and gas activity that is the
subject of a plan.




(2)

An applicant or permit holder must determine the hazard planning
distance




(a)

for fluids containing hydrogen sulphide, in accordance with
Schedule A, B or C, as applicable, or




(b)

for hazards other than hydrogen sulphide, by taking into
consideration the types of hazards and risks arising from the oil
and gas activity that is the subject of the plan.






Response contingency plans required




6


A permit holder must not carry out an oil and gas activity that is
the subject of a plan unless the permit holder has, in respect of
the plan,




(a)

determined that there is no emergency planning zone, or




(b)

complied with section 7 or 8.






Preparation of plans




7

(1)


A plan is prescribed for the purposes of section 38 (1) (b) of the
Act.




(2)

An applicant or permit holder must prepare a plan for each of the
applicant's or permit holder's oil and gas activities to which
this regulation applies, unless




(a)

the site-specific hazards and risks of each oil and gas activity
that is the subject of a plan are the same, and




(b)

the emergency planning zones for each oil and gas activity that is
the subject of a plan overlap,


in which case, an applicant or permit holder may prepare a single
plan for more than one of the applicant's or permit holder's oil
and gas activities to which this regulation applies.




(3)

The following information must be included in the plan:




(a)

the name and contact information of the applicant or permit
holder;




(b)

a description of




(i)

the oil and gas activity that is the subject of the plan, and




(ii)

the site-specific hazards and risks of the oil and gas activity
that is the subject of the plan, identified in an all-hazard risk
assessment;




(c)

an emergency response map, as set out in section 15;




(d)

an emergency management system for control, command and
coordination of the emergency response that




(i)

describes the powers and duties of the emergency response roles,
and




(ii)

assigns emergency response staff to the emergency response roles;




(e)

a list and description of the applicant's or permit holder's
emergency response resources, for deployment in an emergency;




(f)

a description of the emergency communication system, as set out in
section 16 (1), and a requirement that the permit holder must test
the emergency communication system in accordance with section 16
(2);




(g)

a description of how the applicant or permit holder will




(i)

deploy and monitor the emergency response resources referred to in
paragraph (e) in an emergency,




(ii)

notify those persons and other entities who may be affected by an
emergency, and




(iii)

provide information to those persons and other entities referred
to in subparagraph (ii) regarding an emergency, including shelter
in place or evacuation decisions, if applicable.






Preparation of supplementary plans




8

(1)


A supplementary plan is prescribed for the purposes of section 38
(1) (b) of the Act.




(2)

An applicant or permit holder who previously submitted a copy of a
plan to the commission may prepare a supplementary plan for a
subsequent oil and gas activity to which this regulation applies,
if the site-specific hazards and risks of the subsequent oil and
gas activity are such that the applicant's or permit holder's
existing plan can be applied, with only minor adjustments, to the
subsequent oil and gas activity.




(3)

The supplementary plan must include the information set out in
section 7 (3) (b), (c) and (e) that is different from the
information included in the existing plan.






Access to plans




9


An applicant or permit holder must have a copy of the plan, in
paper or electronic form, accessible




(a)

to the applicant's or permit holder's emergency response staff,
and




(b)

at the applicant's or permit holder's head office.






Review and update of plans




10

(1)


A permit holder must review and, if necessary, update the
information included in a plan




(a)

at least once a year,




(b)

after an evaluation of the response to an emergency is completed
under section 14, and




(c)

if the site-specific hazards and risks of the oil and gas activity
that is the subject of the plan change significantly.




(2)

As part of the review referred to in subsection (1), a permit
holder must




(a)

review the information included in the plan,




(b)

make reasonable efforts to determine whether the persons or other
entities referred to in section 3 (1) (a) to (f) have changed, and




(c)

consider any responses to requests under section 3 (2) (d) (ii)
received after the plan or updated information was submitted to
the commission.




(3)

If, as a result of reviewing the plan, the permit holder
determines that the persons or other entities referred to in
section 3 (1) (a) to (f) have changed, the permit holder must give
the information set out in section 3 (2) respecting the plan to
the persons or other entities not previously given the information
as soon as possible.




(4)

If, as a result of updating the plan, the information given under
section 3 (2) has changed, the permit holder must provide updated
information to those persons or other entities referred to in
section 3 (1) (a) to (f) who are affected by the change as soon as
possible.






Submission of plans




11


An applicant or permit holder must submit to the commission in
writing and in both paper and electronic form




(a)

a copy of the plan, and




(b)

if applicable, a copy of any updated information under section 10
(1).






Classification of incidents




12


A permit holder must classify an incident according to the
Incident Classification Matrix, set out in Schedule D, immediately
after the permit holder becomes aware of the incident.






Implementation of plans




13

(1)


When an emergency occurs a permit holder must




(a)

implement the plan immediately,




(b)

take such other actions as necessary to respond effectively and
adequately to the emergency, and




(c)

notify the commission as soon as the circumstances permit.




(2)

A permit holder must ensure that the plan is implemented in
accordance with the following order of priorities:




(a)

protection of emergency response staff;




(b)

protection of the permit holder's employees;




(c)

protection of the public;




(d)

protection of property;




(e)

protection of the environment.






Evaluation of response to emergencies




14

(1)


A permit holder must evaluate the response to an emergency as soon
as the circumstances permit.




(2)

A report of the results of an evaluation under subsection (1) must
be prepared and maintained until the permit for the oil and gas
activity that is the subject of the plan is cancelled or is
declared to be spent.




(3)

The report under subsection (2) must include




(a)

a description of the emergency, including the cause or suspected
cause,




(b)

a description of the permit holder's response to the emergency,
and




(c)

an assessment of the permit holder's response.




(4)

The report under subsection (2) is prescribed for the purposes of
section 38 (1) (a) of the Act.






Emergency response map




15

(1)


An emergency response map required by section 7 (3) (c) must show
all of the applicable of the following information:




(a)

the location of the oil and gas activity that is the subject of
the plan;




(b)

the emergency planning zone;




(c)

the location of roads, including oil and gas roads, within the
emergency planning zone.




(2)

An emergency response map must show all of the following
information if the area, feature, structure or location may be
affected by an emergency or may affect the response to an
emergency:




(a)

the area adjacent to the emergency planning zone;




(b)

surface and environmental features and structures, including
stream crossings and lakes within the emergency planning zone;




(c)

the location of commercial or industrial operations within the
emergency planning zone;




(d)

the location of a registered trapline, guiding territory or Crown
range within the emergency planning zone;




(e)

the location of any other areas within the emergency planning zone
that may be used by the public, including, without limitation,
dwellings, schools, public facilities, campgrounds and recreation
areas.






Emergency communication system




16

(1)


An emergency communication system required by section 7 (3) (f)
must be capable of enabling communications among the applicable of
the following:




(a)

the permit holder;




(b)

the emergency response staff;




(c)

the public;




(d)

employees of the permit holder conducting air monitoring;




(e)

the commission;




(f)

government agencies and authorities.




(2)

The emergency communication system must be tested annually to
confirm the equipment is functional.






Information in writing




17


Information required to be given or submitted under this
regulation, other than the information required by section 11,
must be given or submitted in writing and may be in either paper
or electronic form.






Exemptions




18

(1)


An official may exempt an applicant or permit holder from
complying with one or more provisions of this regulation if the
official is satisfied that, in the circumstances,




(a)

compliance with the provision or provisions is not reasonably
practicable, or




(b)

the exemption is in the public interest.




(2)

In granting an exemption under subsection (1), an official may
impose any conditions on the exemption the official considers
necessary.




Part 4 — Transition





Transition




19

(1)


A plan submitted to the commission before this regulation comes
into force is deemed to have been submitted under section 11.




(2)

For the purpose of section 10, a plan under subsection (1) of this
section must be reviewed on or before the earlier of the
following:




(a)

one year after the permit holder's last review of the plan;




(b)

one year after the date on which this regulation comes into force.




Schedule A


(section 5)


Facility Distances


Hazard planning distances for facilities are determined by reference
to the maximum potential hydrogen sulphide release volume from any
pipeline entering or leaving the facility, calculated in accordance
with the applicable of the following equations. The hazard planning
distance for facilities is the distance indicated on the vertical
axis of Chart A that corresponds to the release volume indicated on
the horizontal axis of the chart, as indicated by the graphline on
the chart.


Equations



Gas pipeline H
2
S release volume



The equation for calculating the maximum potential H
2
S release volume from a gas pipeline is as follows:




V =

2.232 x 10
-6
D
2
L (P + 101.325) H








Z(T + 273)







where


V
=

maximum potential H
2
S release volume at standard conditions in cubic metres (m
3
);



D
=

internal diameter of pipeline in millimetres (mm);



L
=

length of pipeline between emergency shutdown valves in
kilometres (km);



P
=

licensed maximum operating pressure in kilopascals (kPa);



H
=

licensed H
2
S content (moles/kilomole) for the pipeline;



Z
=

compressibility factor at reduced pressure and reduced
temperature;



T
=

pipeline minimum operating temperature in degrees Celsius
(°C).






Sour liquid multiphase pipeline H
2
S release volume



The equation for calculating the maximum potential H
2
S release volume from a sour liquid multiphase pipeline is as
follows:




V =
(GLR x GVF)

x V
pl
x H








1 000(GLR + GVF)







where


V
=

maximum potential H
2
S release volume at standard conditions in cubic metres (m
3
);



GLR
=

produced gas-liquid ratio at maximum operating pressure (MOP)
(m
3
/m
3
);



GVF
=

ratio of produced gas volume at standard conditions to the
volume of gas at MOP (m
3
/m
3
);




V
pl

=

volume of the pipeline in cubic metres (m
3
);



H
=

licensed H
2
S content (moles/kilomole) for the pipeline.






Gas multiphase pipeline H
2
S release volume



The equation for calculating the maximum potential H
2
S release volume from a gas multiphase pipeline is as follows:





V = 0.785 x 10
-6
D
2
L

(GLR x GVF)
x H







(GLR + GVF)







where


V
=

maximum potential H
2
S release volume at standard conditions in cubic metres (m
3
);



D
=

internal diameter of pipeline in millimetres (mm);



L
=

length of pipeline between emergency shutdown valves in
kilometres (km);



GLR
=

produced gas-liquid ratio at maximum operating pressure (MOP)
(m
3
/m
3
);



GVF
=

ratio of produced gas volume at standard conditions to the
volume of gas at MOP (m
3
/m
3
);



H
=

licensed H
2
S content (moles/kilomole) for the pipeline.





Chart A: Facility Distances






Schedule B


(section 5)


Well Distances


Hazard planning distances for wells are determined by reference to
the maximum potential hydrogen sulphide release rates from a well
during drilling, completion, re-completion or production operations.



H
2
S Release Rates



Drilling operations


The maximum potential H
2
S release rates during drilling operations must be determined as
follows:


1 For a proposed well, the maximum gas rate (AOF) values and maximum
H
2
S concentrations for each H
2
S-bearing formation must be determined for each of at least
5 wells drilled and tested in an analogous geological area or
pool within 5 km of the proposed well.


2 The H
2
S release rates for all potential H
2
S-bearing formations in the proposed well must be determined based
on the highest AOF and highest H
2
S concentration for each formation and the sum of the H
2
S release rates for all the formations that will be open to the well
bore during drilling operations.


3 If appropriate data does not exist or is otherwise inadequate, the
hazard planning distance is 3 km.


Completion or re-completion operations


For completion or re-completion operations in an existing well, data
from the appropriate formation in the well must be used to determine
H
2
S release rates, but if the appropriate data does not exist or is
otherwise inadequate, H
2
S release rates must be determined in accordance with the equations
and notes set out below for production operations.


Production operations


The maximum potential H
2
S release rates during production operations must be determined in
accordance with the following equation and the notes that follow:





H
2
S Release Rate =


H
2
S% x AOF








8 640 000







where



H
2
S%

=

volume of H
2
S expressed as a percentage of the total volume of gas;



AOF
=

maximum gas rate (m
3
/d).





Notes:


1 For gas wells, if an AOF test has been conducted and value
determined for a formation in a well, that value must be used. If an
AOF test value has not been determined, a theoretical AOF must be
calculated using the following formula:




AOF =

Gas Test Rate x Pr
2









(Pr
2
- Pf
2
)








where


AOF
=

maximum gas rate (m
3
/d);



Gas Test Rate
=

gas flow rate during testing (m
3
/d);



Pf
=

flowing bottom hole pressure (kPa);



Pr
=
reservoir pressure (kPa).




2 For oil wells, the AOF must be calculated using the following
formula:




AOF =
Oil Test Rate x GOR








[1 – 0.2 x (Pf/Pr) – 0.8 x (Pf/Pr)
2
]








where


AOF
=

maximum gas rate (m
3
/d);



Oil Test Rate
=

oil flow rate during testing (m
3
/d);



GOR
=

gas-oil ratio from oil test rate well (m
3
/m
3
);



Pf
=

flowing bottom hole pressure (kPa);



Pr
=
reservoir pressure (kPa).




Determination of Well Distances


The hazard planning distance for wells is the distance indicated on
the vertical axis of Chart B that corresponds to the release rate
indicated on the horizontal axis of the chart, as indicated by the
graphline on the chart.


Chart B: Well Distances









Schedule C


(section 5)


Pipeline Distances


Hazard planning distances for pipelines are determined by reference
to the maximum potential hydrogen sulphide release volume from the
pipeline, calculated in accordance with the applicable of the
following equations. The hazard planning distance for pipelines is
the distance indicated on the vertical axis of Chart C that
corresponds to the release volume indicated on the horizontal axis
of the chart, as indicated by the graphline on the chart.


Equations



Gas pipeline H
2
S release volume



The equation for calculating the maximum potential H
2
S release volume from a pipeline is as follows:




V =

2.232 x 10
-6
D
2
L(P + 101.325) H








Z(T + 273)







where


V
=

maximum potential H
2
S release volume at standard conditions in cubic metres (m
3
);



D
=

internal diameter of pipeline in millimetres (mm);



L
=

length of pipeline between emergency shutdown valves in
kilometres (km);



P
=

licensed maximum operating pressure in kilopascals (kPa);



H
=

licensed H
2
S content (moles/kilomole) for the pipeline;



Z
=

compressibility factor at reduced pressure and reduced
temperature;



T
=

pipeline minimum operating temperature in degrees Celsius
(°C).






Sour liquid multiphase pipeline H
2
S release volume



The equation for calculating the maximum potential H
2
S release volume from a sour liquid multiphase pipeline is as
follows:




V =
(GLR x GVF)

x V
pl
x H








1 000(GLR + GVF)







where


V
=

maximum potential H
2
S release volume at standard conditions in cubic metres (m
3
);



GLR
=

produced gas-liquid ratio at maximum operating pressure (MOP)
(m
3
/m
3
);



GVF
=

ratio of produced gas volume at standard conditions to the
volume of gas at MOP (m
3
/m
3
);




V
pl

=

volume of the pipeline in cubic metres (m
3
);



H
=

licensed H
2
S content (moles/kilomole) for the pipeline.






Gas multiphase pipeline H
2
S release volume



The equation for calculating the maximum potential H
2
S release volume from a gas multiphase pipeline is as follows:





V = 0.785 x 10
-6
D
2
L

(GLR x GVF)
x H







(GLR + GVF)







where


V
=

maximum potential H
2
S release volume at standard conditions in cubic metres (m
3
);



D
=

internal diameter of pipeline in millimetres (mm);



L
=

length of pipeline between emergency shutdown valves in
kilometres (km);



GLR
=

produced gas-liquid ratio at maximum operating pressure (MOP)
(m
3
/m
3
);



GVF
=

ratio of produced gas volume at standard conditions to the
volume of gas at MOP (m
3
/m
3
);



H
=

licensed H
2
S content (moles/kilomole) for the pipeline.





Chart C: Pipeline Distances






Schedule D


(section 12)


Incident Classification Matrix


The classification of an incident is determined for each event or
circumstance in the following matrix by identifying the probability
of escalation or control of the event or circumstance.











Probability




Item


Event or Circumstance



Escalation highly unlikely; controlled or imminent control




Escalation unlikely; controlled or likely imminent control




Escalation possible; under or imminent control




Uncontrolled, with control unlikely in near term






1

• Moderate on site equipment damage

• Liquid spill or gas release on location

Minor Incident
Minor Incident

Level 1 Incident


Level 1 Incident



2

• Emergency medical services for worker

• Major on site equipment damage

• Liquid spill or gas release potentially or beyond site, not
affecting public safety, environment, or property

Minor Incident

Level 1 Incident


Level 1 Incident


Level 2 Incident



3

• Worker hospitalized

• HAZMAT worker exposure exceeding allowable

• Major on site equipment failure

• Liquid spill or gas release beyond site, potentially
affecting public safety, environment, or property


Level 1 Incident


Level 1 Incident


Level 2 Incident


Level 3 Incident



4

• Fatality

• Major on site equipment or infrastructure loss

• Liquid spill beyond site, uncontained and affecting
environment

• Gas release beyond site affecting public safety


Level 1 Incident


Level 2 Incident


Level 3 Incident


Level 3 Incident





[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Oil and Gas Activities Act
, S.B.C. 2008, c. 36, sections 38, 106, 111 and 112]





