




Access to Abortion Services Act


[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 1










Preamble


WHEREAS all people in British Columbia are entitled to access to
health care, including abortion services;


AND WHEREAS all people who use the British Columbia health care
system, and who provide services for it, should be treated with
courtesy and with respect for their dignity and privacy;


THEREFORE HER MAJESTY, by and with the advice and consent of the
Legislative Assembly of the Province of British Columbia, enacts as
follows:








Definitions





1



In this Act:



"abortion services"

means lawful medical services provided for the termination of
pregnancy;



"access zone"

means an access zone established under section 5, 6 or 7;



"beset"

means






(a)


to
continuously or repeatedly observe a service provider, doctor who
provides abortion services or patient or a building in which any of
them resides or in which abortion services are provided, or






(b)


to place
oneself close to, and to importune, a service provider, doctor who
provides abortion services or patient


for the purpose of dissuading the service provider or doctor from
providing, or the patient from using, abortion services;



"doctor"

means a
member of the College of Physicians and Surgeons of British Columbia;



"facility"

means
a hospital, clinic or doctor's office in which abortion services are
provided;



"parcel"

means






(a)


land shown
in a strata plan deposited in a land title office, or






(b)


land within
the boundaries of a lot, block or other area into which land is
subdivided that is shown on a plan deposited in a land title office,
other than a strata plan;



"patient"

means a
person who is in an access zone in the course of using abortion
services, and includes any other person, other than a service provider
or doctor who provides abortion services, accompanying them for the
purpose of giving them emotional support;



"protest"

includes
any act of disapproval or attempted act of disapproval, with respect
to issues related to abortion services, by any means, including,
without limitation, graphic, verbal or written means;



"residence"

means the usual place where a person makes their home;



"service provider"

means a person, other than a doctor, who provides, or facilitates the
provision of, abortion services;



"sidewalk interference"

means






(a)


advising or
persuading, or attempting to advise or persuade, a person to refrain
from making use of abortion services, or






(b)


informing or
attempting to inform a person concerning issues related to abortion
services


by any means, including, without limitation, graphic, verbal or
written means.








Activities restricted in an access zone





2



(1)


While in an access zone, a person must not do any of the following:






(a)


engage in
sidewalk interference;






(b)


protest;






(c)


beset;






(d)


physically
interfere with or attempt to interfere with a service provider, a
doctor who provides abortion services or a patient;






(e)


intimidate
or attempt to intimidate a service provider, a doctor who provides
abortion services or a patient.






(2)


Despite this
section a provincial constable or municipal constable, as defined in
section 1 of the


Police Act


, may, in an access zone, carry out their duties as a provincial
constable or municipal constable.






(3)


In a
prosecution under subsection (1) (a), it is a defence if the defendant
establishes that they were acting as






(a)


a service
provider,






(b)


a doctor who
provides abortion services, or






(c)


a patient.








No graphic recording in an access zone





3



A person must not photograph, film, videotape, sketch or in any other
way graphically record a service provider, doctor who provides
abortion services or patient while the service provider, doctor or
patient is in an access zone, for the purpose of dissuading that
person from providing, facilitating the provision of or using abortion
services.








No harassment





4



(1)


A person must not do any of the following for the purpose of
dissuading another person from providing or facilitating the provision
of abortion services:






(a)


repeatedly
approach, accompany or follow the other person, or a person known to
the other person;






(b)


beset;






(c)


engage in
threatening conduct directed at the other person or a person known to
the other person.






(2)


A person
must not repeatedly communicate by telephone, facsimile or electronic
means with another person without their consent for the purpose of
dissuading a service provider or doctor who provides abortion services
from beginning or continuing to provide, or to facilitate the
provision of, abortion services.








Access zones — facilities





5



(1)


For the purpose of facilitating access to abortion services, the
Lieutenant Governor in Council may establish, by regulation, an access
zone for a specific facility.






(2)


An access
zone established under subsection (1) includes the parcel on which the
facility is located and a prescribed area that extends out a distance
not exceeding 50 m from the boundaries of the parcel on which the
facility is located.






(3)


An access
zone established under subsection (1) does not include






(a)


if the
facility is on a parcel of land shown on a strata plan, a strata lot
other than the one on which the facility is located,






(b)


if the
facility is on a parcel of land not shown on a strata plan, any part
of the parcel that a person other than the operator of the facility
has an exclusive right to use or occupy, and






(c)


private
property outside the parcel on which the facility is located, other
than private property that the operator of the facility has an
exclusive right to use or occupy.






(4)


A regulation
made under subsection (1) may establish access zones with different
dimensions for different facilities.








Access zones — residences of doctors and
service providers





6



(1)


An access zone is established for the residence of every doctor who
provides abortion services.






(2)


For the
purposes of facilitating the continued availability of service
providers to provide, or facilitate the provision of, abortion
services, the Lieutenant Governor in Council may establish, by
regulation, an access zone for the residences of a class of service
providers, or the residence of a specific service provider.






(3)


An access
zone established under subsection (1) or (2) includes the parcel on
which the residence is located and an area that extends out 160 m from
the boundaries of the parcel on which the residence is located.






(4)


An access
zone established under subsection (1) or (2) does not include






(a)


if the
residence is on a parcel of land shown on a strata plan, a strata lot
other than the one on which the residence is located,






(b)


if the
residence is on a parcel of land not shown on a strata plan, any part
of the parcel that a person other than the service provider or doctor
who provides abortion services has an exclusive right to use or
occupy, and






(c)


private
property outside the parcel on which the residence is located, other
than private property that the service provider or doctor who provides
abortion services has an exclusive right to use or occupy.








Access zones — doctors' offices





7



(1)


An access zone is established for the office of every doctor who
provides abortion services.






(2)


An access
zone established under subsection (1) includes the parcel on which the
office is located and an area that extends out 10 m from the
boundaries of the parcel on which the office is located.






(3)


An access
zone established under subsection (1) does not include






(a)


if the
office is on a parcel of land shown on a strata plan, a strata lot
other than the one on which the office is located,






(b)


if the
office is on a parcel of land not shown on a strata plan, any part of
the parcel that a person other than the doctor who provides abortion
services has an exclusive right to use or occupy, and






(c)


private
property outside the parcel on which the office is located, other than
private property that the doctor who provides abortion services has an
exclusive right to use or occupy.






(4)


The
Lieutenant Governor in Council may vary, by regulation, the 10 m
distance referred to in subsection (2) for a specific building, up to
a maximum of 20 m.






(5)


A regulation
made under subsection (4) may provide different variances for
different buildings.








Notice





8



A person may not be convicted of contravening section 2 (1) or 3 in
an access zone established in section 6 or 7 unless the person knew
or, at any time before the contravention, was given notice of, the
location of the access zone.








Damages can be recovered for contravention





9



A person who suffers loss as a result of the contravention of this
Act by another person may recover damages from the other person for
the loss.








Injunction





10



(1)


On application by a person, including the Attorney General, the
Supreme Court may grant an injunction to restrain a person from
contravening a provision of this Act.






(2)


A
contravention may be restrained under subsection (1) whether or not a
penalty or other remedy is provided by this Act.








Arrest





11



A provincial constable or municipal constable, as defined in section
1 of the


Police Act


, may arrest, without a warrant, a person whom the constable believes
on reasonable and probable grounds has committed or is committing an
offence under this Act.








Orders regarding persons arrested





12



(1)


If a person is brought before a justice after being arrested, with or
without a warrant, for an offence under this Act, the justice may
order that the person be






(a)


released on
an undertaking,






(b)


released on
recognizance with or without sureties, or






(c)


detained in
custody.






(2)


A justice
may require as a condition of an order under subsection (1) that the
defendant do one or more of the following, as specified in the order:






(a)


report as
directed in the order to a person designated by the justice;






(b)


keep the
peace and be of good behaviour;






(c)


not enter an
access zone;






(d)


appear
before the justice when required to do so by the justice;






(e)


comply with
any other reasonable conditions the justice considers appropriate.








Plan





13



(1)


A plan prepared by a British Columbia land surveyor showing the
location of an access zone is, without proof of the signature or
official character of the surveyor, evidence of the information set
out in the plan, including, without limitation, information






(a)


required by
the regulations to be set out in the plan,






(b)


referred to
in the surveyor's certification under subsection (3),






(c)


respecting a
measurement, or






(d)


respecting a
boundary, survey marker, building, doorway, hallway, stairway,
elevator, sidewalk, road, fence, utility pole, tree or any other human
made or natural feature related to






(i)


the access
zone,






(ii)


the parcel
to which the access zone relates or an adjacent parcel, or






(iii)


an area
in or near the access zone that is not part of the access zone.






(2)


The location
of a feature referred to in subsection (1) (d) shown on a plan
produced in a prosecution of an offence under this Act is presumed, in
the absence of evidence to the contrary, to be the location of that
feature at the time the offence was committed.






(3)


A plan under
subsection (1) must include the surveyor's certification that






(a)


the surveyor
is a British Columbia land surveyor,






(b)


the surveyor
was present at and personally conducted or supervised the survey
represented by the plan, and






(c)


the survey
and plan are correct and meet any requirements prescribed by
regulation under this Act.






(4)


With leave
of a court, a defendant against whom a plan is produced may require,
for the purposes of cross examination, the attendance of the land
surveyor who prepared the plan.






(5)


A plan under
subsection (1) must not be received in evidence unless, before the
trial, the defendant has received reasonable notice that the plan will
be introduced and has received a copy of the plan.








Offences and sentencing





14



(1)


In this section,

"justice"

includes the court
before which an appeal is heard in respect of a conviction or an order
made under this Act.






(2)


A person
commits an offence who






(a)


contravenes
section 2 (1), 3 or 4, or






(b)


breaches a
probation order made under subsection (7) of this section.






(3)


A person is
liable on a first conviction for any offence under subsection (2) (a)
to a fine of not more than $5 000, or to imprisonment for not more
than 6 months, or to both.






(4)


A person is
liable, on a second or subsequent conviction for any offence under
subsection (2) (a), to






(a)


a fine of
not less than $1 000 and not more than $10 000, or






(b)


both a fine
under paragraph (a) and imprisonment for not more than one year.






(5)


A person who
is convicted of an offence under subsection (2) (b) is liable to a
fine of not more than $2 000, or to imprisonment for not more than 6
months, or to both.






(6)


If a justice
makes a probation order under section 89 (a) of the


Offence Act


in respect of a defendant convicted of a first offence under this Act,
the justice, in addition to or in place of the conditions set out in
section 89.2 of the


Offence Act


, may order that the defendant must not enter an access zone.






(7)


In addition
to fining a defendant convicted of an offence under this Act or
sentencing the defendant to imprisonment, the justice, having regard
to the age and character of the defendant, the nature of the offence
and the circumstances surrounding its commission, may direct that the
defendant be placed on probation, with or without sureties, and comply
with the conditions in a probation order.






(8)


A probation
order under subsection (7) may be kept in force for a period not
exceeding 2 years.






(9)


The
following conditions are deemed to be set out in a probation order
under subsection (7):






(a)


that the
defendant must keep the peace and be of good behaviour;






(b)


that the
defendant must appear before the justice when required to do so by the
justice.






(10)


A justice
may require as a condition of a probation order under subsection (7)
that the defendant do one or more of the following as specified in the
order:






(a)


report to
and be under the supervision of a probation officer or other person
designated by the justice;






(b)


refrain from
entering an access zone;






(c)


make
restitution or reparation for any loss suffered as a result of the
commission of the offence;






(d)


comply with
any reasonable condition the justice considers appropriate for
securing the good conduct of the defendant and for preventing a
repetition by the defendant of the same offence or the commission of
other offences.






(11)


Section 5
of the


Offence Act


does not apply to this Act or the regulations.








Power to make regulations





15



(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to
in section 41 of the


Interpretation Act


.






(2)


Without
limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council may make
the following regulations:






(a)


regulations
referred to in sections 5 to 7;






(b)


respecting
the form of






(i)


an
undertaking or a recognizance for the purposes of section 12, and






(ii)


a
probation order for the purposes of section 14 (7);






(c)


respecting
the manner of making surveys and plans under section 13, including,
without limitation, information that must be included in a plan and
the form of the plan.






(3)


In making a
regulation under this Act, the Lieutenant Governor in Council may
delegate a matter to a person and confer a discretionary power on a
person.








Application





16



This Act is subject to the


Labour Relations Code


.




