




Builders Lien Act
[SBC 1997] CHAPTER 45


Assented to July 30, 1997






Definitions and interpretation




1

(1)


In this Act:



"certificate of completion"

means a certificate under section 7 stating that work under a contract
or subcontract has been completed and includes an order made under
section 7 (5);



"claim of lien"

means a claim of lien in the prescribed form;



"class of lien claimants"

means all lien claimants engaged by the same person in connection with
an improvement;


"completed"
, if used with reference to a contract or subcontract in respect of an
improvement, means substantially completed or performed, not
necessarily totally completed or performed;


"contractor"
means a person engaged by an owner to do one or more of the following
in relation to an improvement:




(a)

perform or provide work;




(b)

supply material;

but does not include a worker;

"court"
means the Supreme Court;



"head contractor"

means a contractor who is engaged to do substantially all of the work
respecting an improvement, whether or not others are engaged as
subcontractors, material suppliers or workers;



"holdback period"

means the period of time calculated under section 8;



"improvement"

includes anything made, constructed, erected, built, altered, repaired
or added to, in, on or under land, and attached to it or intended to
become a part of it, and also includes any clearing, excavating,
digging, drilling, tunnelling, filling, grading or ditching of, in, on
or under land;



"land title office"

means the land title office for the land title district or districts
in which the land or any part of it is located and on which the
improvement is made or is being made;



"lien claimant"

means a person who files a claim of lien under this Act;



"lien holder"

means a person entitled to a lien under this Act;


"material"
means movable property that is delivered to the land on which the
improvement is located and is intended to become part of the
improvement, either directly or in a transformed state, or is consumed
or used in the making of the improvement, including equipment rented
without an operator;



"material supplier"

means a contractor or subcontractor who supplies only material in
relation to an improvement;



"notice of certification of completion"

means a notice in the prescribed form stating that a certificate of
completion or a court order to the same effect has been issued;



"notice of interest"

means a notice in the prescribed form warning other persons that the
owner's interest in the land described in the notice is not bound by a
lien claimed under this Act in respect of an improvement on the land
unless that improvement is undertaken at the express request of the
owner;



"notice to commence an action"

means a notice in the prescribed form requiring a claim holder to
commence an action to enforce a claim of lien;


"operator"
means an individual who operates equipment at an improvement site but
does not include an individual who temporarily or periodically is
present at the improvement site to install, inspect, service, empty or
remove equipment;


"owner"
includes a person who has, at the time a claim of lien is filed under
this Act, an estate or interest, whether legal or equitable, in the
land on which the improvement is located, at whose request and




(a)

on whose credit,




(b)

on whose behalf,




(c)

with whose knowledge or consent, or




(d)

for whose direct benefit


work is done or material is supplied, and includes all persons
claiming under the owner, but does not include a mortgagee unless the
mortgagee is in possession of the land;


"registrar"
means the registrar of a land title office;



"required holdback"

means, in relation to a contract or subcontract, the amount required
under section 4 to be retained from payments under that contract
or subcontract, less any payments made under an entitlement to payment
arising under section 9;


"services"
includes




(a)

services as an architect or engineer whether provided before or after
the construction of an improvement has begun, and




(b)

the rental of equipment, with an operator, for use in making an
improvement;



"subcontractor"

means a person engaged by a contractor or another subcontractor to do
one or more of the following in relation to an improvement:




(a)

perform or provide work;




(b)

supply material;


but does not include a worker or a person engaged by an architect, an
engineer or a material supplier;


"wages"
means money earned by a worker for work and includes




(a)

salaries, commissions or money, paid or payable by an employer to an
employee for work,




(b)

money that is paid or payable by an employer as an incentive and that
relates to hours of work, production or efficiency,




(c)

money, including the amount of any liability under section 63 of the

Employment Standards Act

, required to be paid by an employer to an employee under that Act,




(d)

money required to be paid in accordance with a determination or an
order of the tribunal under the

Employment Standards Act

,




(e)

money required under a contract of employment to be paid, for an
employee's benefit, to a fund, insurer or other person and includes
money payable under Parts 10 and 11 of the

Employment Standards Act

, and




(f)

money required to be paid under a collective agreement;


"work"
means work, labour or services, skilled or unskilled, on an
improvement;


"worker"
means an individual engaged by an owner, contractor or subcontractor
for wages in any kind of work, whether engaged under a contract of
service or not, but does not include an architect or engineer or a
person engaged by an architect or engineer.




(2)

For the purposes of this Act, a head contract, contract or subcontract
is substantially performed if the work to be done under that contract
is capable of completion or correction at a cost of not more than




(a)

3% of the first $500 000 of the contract price,




(b)

2% of the next $500 000 of the contract price, and




(c)

1% of the balance of the contract price.




(3)

For the purposes of this Act, an improvement is completed if the
improvement or a substantial part of it is ready for use or is being
used for the purpose intended.




(4)

For the purposes of this Act, the construction of a strata lot, as
defined by the

Strata Property Act

, is completed, or a contract for its construction is substantially
performed, not later than the date the strata lot is first occupied.




(4.1)

With respect to common property or common assets held by a strata
corporation under the

Strata Property Act

, for the purposes of sections 7 and 41 of this Act, and any other
provision of this Act specified in the regulations, the strata
corporation is deemed to be the owner.




(4.2)

With respect to common property or common assets held by a strata
corporation under the

Strata Property Act

, for the purposes of section 25 of this Act and any other provision
of this Act specified in the regulations, a reference to an owner
includes the strata corporation.




(5)

For the purposes of this Act, a contract or improvement is deemed to
be abandoned on the expiry of a period of 30 days during which no
work has been done in connection with the contract or improvement,
unless the cause for the cessation of work was and continued to be a
strike, lockout, sickness, weather conditions, holidays, a court
order, shortage of material or other similar cause.




(6)

Anything that may be done under this Act by or with reference to an
owner, contractor, subcontractor, worker or mortgagee is valid if done
by or with reference to an agent of that person.






Exemptions




1.1


Nothing in this Act extends to any of the following:




(a)

a highway, as defined by the

Transportation Act

, or to any improvement done or caused to be done on it by a
municipality, the minister responsible for the administration of the

Transportation Act

, the Transportation Investment Corporation, a concessionaire as
defined by the

Transportation Investment Act

, the BC Transportation Financing Authority or its subsidiaries, the
South Coast British Columbia Transportation Authority or its
subsidiaries or any other public body designated by regulation;




(a.1)

continuing highway properties, as defined in section 30 (1) of the

Coastal Ferry Act

, or any improvement done or caused to be done on them by a
municipality, the minister responsible for the administration of the

Transportation Act

or BC Transportation Financing Authority or its subsidiaries or by the
ferry operator, within the meaning of the

Coastal Ferry Act

, to which those properties are leased under that Act;




(b)

a forest service road, as defined in the

Forest Act

, or any improvement done or caused to be done by or for the minister
responsible for the administration of the

Ministry of Forests and Range Act

.






Lien for work and material




2

(1)


Subject to this Act, a contractor, subcontractor or worker who, in
relation to an improvement,




(a)

performs or provides work,




(b)

supplies material, or




(c)

does any combination of those things referred to in paragraphs (a) and
(b)


has a lien for the price of the work and material, to the extent that
the price remains unpaid, on all of the following:




(d)

the interest of the owner in the improvement;




(e)

the improvement itself;




(f)

the land in, on or under which the improvement is located;




(g)

the material delivered to or placed on the land.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not create a lien in favour of a person who
performs or provides work or supplies material to an architect,
engineer or material supplier.






Deemed authorization




3

(1)


An improvement done with the prior knowledge, but not at the request,
of an owner is deemed to have been done at the request of the owner.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply to an improvement made after the owner
has filed a notice of interest in the land title office.




(3)

Subsection (1) does not apply to an improvement on land owned by the
government.






Holdback




4

(1)


The person primarily liable on each contract, and the person primarily
liable on each subcontract, under which a lien may arise under this
Act must retain a holdback equal to 10% of the greater of




(a)

the value of the work or material as they are actually provided under
the contract or subcontract, and




(b)

the amount of any payment made on account of the contract or
subcontract price.




(2)

The obligation to retain the holdback under subsection (1) applies
whether or not the contract or subcontract provides for periodic
payments or payment on completion.




(3)

For the purposes of subsection (1), value must be calculated on the
basis of the contract or subcontract price or, if there is no specific
price, on the basis of the actual value of the work or material.




(4)

Subject to section 5 (4), if a mortgagee is a savings institution and
is authorized by the owner to disburse the money secured by a
mortgage, the mortgagee may retain as a holdback the amount required
to be retained by the owner as the payor on the contract and the
retention by the mortgagee of that amount is deemed to be compliance
with this section by the owner.




(5)

Subject to section 5 (4), a mortgagee who retains or agrees to retain
a holdback under subsection (4) of this section




(a)

has the same rights and obligations in relation to the holdback as if
it had been retained by the owner, and




(b)

is liable to the owner or any lien holder who suffers loss or damage
as a result of the failure of the mortgagee




(i)

to retain the holdback as agreed, or




(ii)

to fulfill the mortgagee's obligations in relation to the holdback.




(6)

Despite subsection (1) (a), a holdback must not be retained from a
worker, material supplier, architect or engineer.




(7) and (8)

[Not in force.]




(9)

Subject to section 34, a holdback required to be retained under this
section is subject to a lien under this Act, and each holdback is
charged with payment of all persons engaged, in connection with the
improvement, by or under the person from whom the holdback is
retained.






Holdback account




5

(1)


Subject to subsection (8), an owner must




(a)

establish at a savings institution a holdback account for each
contract under which a lien may arise,




(b)

pay into the holdback account the amount the owner is required to
retain under section 4, and




(c)

administer the holdback account together with the contractor from whom
the holdback was retained.




(2)

Subject to sections 9 and 34, all amounts deposited into a holdback
account




(a)

are charged with payment of all liens arising under the contractor
from whom the holdback was retained,




(b)

subject to paragraph (a), are held in trust for the contractor
referred to in paragraph (a), and




(c)

must not be paid out of the account without the agreement of all the
persons who administer the account.




(3)

An administrator of a holdback account may apply to the court for
directions respecting administration of the account, and the court may
make any order it considers appropriate, including one or more of the
following orders:




(a)

that the owner establish and maintain a holdback account as sole
administrator;




(b)

that some or all of the money in the holdback account be paid into
court under section 23 for the removal of claims of lien;




(c)

that an administrator be removed or replaced;




(d)

that a lien holder be paid.




(4)

If the mortgagee retains a holdback under section 4 (4), this section
other than this subsection does not apply.




(5)

If there is more than one owner, only one of the owners is required to
establish and administer the holdback account.




(6)

Unless otherwise agreed, interest on the holdback account accrues to
the owner during the holdback period and after that accrues to the
credit of the contractor from whom the holdback was retained.




(7)

Failure by the owner to comply with subsection (l) (b) constitutes an
act of default under the contract and the contractor, on 10 days'
notice, may suspend operations for as long as the default continues.




(8)

This section does not apply to




(a)

if it is an owner, the government, a government corporation as defined
in the

Financial Administration Act

or any other public body designated, by name or by class, by
regulation, or




(b)

a contract in respect of an improvement, if the aggregate value of
work and material provided is less than $100 000.






Prohibited application of holdback




6

(1)


If a contractor or subcontractor defaults under a contract or
subcontract, the required holdback must not be applied to the
completion of the contract or subcontract, or for the payment of
damages, or for any other purpose until the possibility of any lien
arising under the person in default is exhausted.




(2)

A payment applied contrary to this section does not reduce the
liability under this Act of the person making the payment.




(3)

This section does not apply to money held in excess of the required
holdback.






Certificate of completion




7

(1)


In this section,
"payment certifier"
means




(a)

an architect, engineer or other person identified in the contract or
subcontract as the person responsible for payment certification, or




(b)

if there is no person as described in paragraph (a),




(i)

the owner acting alone in respect of amounts due to the contractor, or




(ii)

the owner and the contractor acting together in respect of amounts due
to any subcontractor.




(2)

A lien holder in respect of an improvement may, by making a written
request, require that the payment certifier for the improvement
deliver to the lien holder




(a)

particulars of any certificate of completion issued under this section
before and after the request, or




(b)

particulars of certificates of completion issued, before and after the
request, with respect to stipulated contracts or subcontracts.




(3)

On the request of a contractor or subcontractor, the payment certifier
must, within 10 days after the date of the request, determine
whether the contract or subcontract has been completed and, if the
payment certifier determines that it has been completed, the payment
certifier must issue a certificate of completion.




(4)

If a certificate of completion is issued, the payment certifier must,
within 7 days,




(a)

deliver a copy of the certificate to the owner, the head contractor,
if any, and the person at whose request the certificate was issued,




(b)

deliver a notice of certification of completion to all persons who
submitted a request under subsection (2) in relation to the contract
or subcontract, and




(c)

post, in a prominent place on the improvement, a notice of
certification of completion.




(5)

If the payment certifier fails or refuses to issue a certificate of
completion as provided in subsection (3), the court may, on
application by the person who requested the certificate and on being
satisfied that the contract or subcontract has been completed, make an
order declaring that the contract or subcontract has been completed.




(6)

An order under subsection (5)




(a)

may be made on terms and conditions as to costs or otherwise that the
court considers just, and




(b)

has the same effect as a certificate of completion issued by a payment
certifier.




(7)

If an order is made under subsection (5) declaring that a contract or
subcontract has been completed, the payment certifier must comply with
subsection (4) as if the order were a certificate of completion.




(8)

A payment certifier who receives a request under subsection (3) and
who fails or refuses, without reasonable excuse and within the time
specified in that subsection, to issue a certificate of completion
respecting the contract or subcontract is liable to anyone who suffers
loss or damage as a result.




(9)

A payment certifier who fails or refuses to comply with subsection (4)
or (7) is liable to anyone who suffers loss or damage as a result.




(10)

A certificate of completion may be in the prescribed form and, if it
is in the prescribed form, it is sufficient to comply with this Act.






Holdback period




8

(1)


If a certificate of completion is issued with respect to a contract or
subcontract, the holdback period in relation to




(a)

the contract or subcontract, and




(b)

any subcontract under the contract or subcontract


expires at the end of 55 days after the certificate of completion is
issued.




(2)

The holdback period for a contract or subcontract that is not governed
by subsection (1) expires at the end of 55 days after




(a)

the head contract is completed, abandoned or terminated, if the owner
engaged a head contractor, or




(b)

the improvement is completed or abandoned, if paragraph (a) does not
apply.




(3)

[Not in force.]




(4)

Payment of a holdback required to be retained under section 4 may be
made after expiry of the holdback period, and all liens of the person
to whom the holdback is paid, and of any person engaged by or under
the person to whom the holdback is paid, are then discharged unless in
the meantime a claim of lien is filed by one of those persons or
proceedings are commenced to enforce a lien against the holdback.






Rights on payment of holdback




9

(1)


A contractor is entitled to receive, from the holdback retained by the
owner from the contractor, an amount equal to the holdback amount
applicable to a subcontract if




(a)

a certificate of completion has been issued in respect of the
subcontract to which the contractor was a party, and




(b)

the holdback period established under section 8 (1) has expired
without any claims of lien being filed that arose under the
subcontract.




(2)

An owner is deemed to have complied with the requirements of
section 4 even if the amount retained has been reduced to a
lesser percentage than is required by that section if




(a)

an amount is paid to a contractor in accordance with subsection (1) of
this section, and




(b)

the amount retained by the owner would have complied with the
requirements of section 4 had no payments been made under this
section.




(3)

Subsections (1) and (2) apply if a certificate of completion is given
in relation to a subcontract to which a contractor is not a party.




(4)

If a contractor is entitled to an amount under subsection (1),
payment may be made from the holdback account established under
section 5.






Contract money received constitutes trust fund




10

(1)


Money received by a contractor or subcontractor on account of the
price of the contract or subcontract constitutes a trust fund for the
benefit of persons engaged in connection with the improvement by that
contractor or subcontractor and the contractor or subcontractor is the
trustee of the fund.




(2)

Until all of the beneficiaries of the fund referred to in subsection
(1) are paid, a contractor or subcontractor must not appropriate any
part of the fund to that person's own use or to a use not authorized
by the trust.




(3)

If the liens of a class of lien claimants are discharged under this
Act by the payment of an amount that is less than the amount owing to
the person who engaged the class, the members of the class are
subrogated to the rights under subsections (1) and (2) of the person
who engaged the class.




(4)

Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply to money received by an
architect, engineer or material supplier.






Certain applications of trust fund deemed not to be appropriation or
conversion




11

(1)


A contractor or subcontractor commits an offence if that person




(a)

appropriates or converts any part of a fund in contravention of
section 10, or




(b)

contravenes section 13 (2).




(2)

A person who commits an offence under subsection (1) (a) is liable to
a fine of not more than $10 000 or to imprisonment for a term of not
more than 2 years, or both.




(3)

If a contractor or subcontractor is a corporation, a director or
officer of the corporation who knowingly assents to or acquiesces in
an offence under subsection (1) (a) by the corporation commits the
offence in addition to the corporation.




(4)

Despite subsections (1) to (3),




(a)

to the extent that a contractor or subcontractor has paid for work or
material supplied under a contract or subcontract, the retention by
the contractor or subcontractor of trust money in an amount equal to
the amount paid is not an appropriation or conversion that contravenes
section 10, and




(b)

if money is loaned to a person on whom a trust is imposed by
section 10 and is used to pay for all or part of work or material
supplied, trust money may be applied to discharge the loan to the
extent that the lender's money was so used by the trustee, and money
so applied is not an appropriation or conversion that contravenes
section 10.




(5)

An information must not be laid in respect of an alleged offence under
subsection (1) or (3) more than 3 years after the alleged offence
occurred.




(6)

Subsection (4) (b) does not limit the rights of a lender who, in the
ordinary course of business, receives money in good faith from a
person on whom a trust is imposed under section 10.




(7)

If a contractor or subcontractor commingles, with other money, any
part of the fund referred to in section 10, that, of itself, does not
constitute a breach of the trust created under section 10 (1) or a
contravention of section 10 (2).






Crediting of money earmarked for particular improvement




12


If a person makes a payment from money in a trust fund constituted in
respect of a particular improvement, a person who receives the money
must credit it against the debt in respect of the improvement.






Garnishment and money in court




13

(1)


In the case of money owing to a contractor or subcontractor that
would, if paid to the contractor or subcontractor, be subject to a
trust under section 10, the money, if it is paid into court under
an attachment under the

Court Order Enforcement Act

, is subject to a trust as if it had been paid to the contractor or
subcontractor, and the interest of the garnishor is subordinate to the
interest of the beneficiaries of the trust.




(2)

A garnishee under an attachment referred to in subsection (1) must, at
the time of payment into court, file in the court registry a notice in
the prescribed form and deliver a copy of the notice to the garnishor.




(3)

If a notice is filed under subsection (2), the registrar of the court
must not pay out of court without an order of the court any money paid
into court under subsection (1).




(4)

Money held in a holdback account established under section 5 is
not subject to garnishment.




(5)

If money is paid into court under this Act by a contractor,
subcontractor or owner, the money becomes or remains subject to the
trust imposed by section 10.






Limitation period




14


An action by a beneficiary or against a trustee of a trust created
under section 10 must not be commenced later than one year
after




(a)

the head contract is completed, abandoned or terminated, or




(b)

if the owner did not engage a head contractor, the completion or
abandonment of the improvement in respect of which the money over
which a trust is claimed became available.






Claim of lien to be in prescribed form




15

(1)


Except as provided in section 18, a claim of lien is made by filing in
the land title office a claim of lien in the prescribed form.




(2)

An agent who represents more than one lien claimant may, with respect
to a particular improvement, make a single claim of lien on behalf of
all of the lien claimants represented, and the prescribed form may be
altered accordingly for that purpose.




(3)

The registrar must not allow a claim of lien to be filed unless
satisfied that the land is adequately described.




(4)

On the filing of the claim of lien in the land title office, the
registrar must endorse a memorandum of the filing on the register of
title to the land or against the estate or interest in the land
described in the claim of lien.






General lien




16

(1)


If an owner enters into a single contract for improvements on more
than one parcel of land, a lien claimant providing work or material
under that contract, or under a subcontract under that contract, may
choose to have the lien follow the form of the contract and be a lien
against each parcel for the price of all work and material provided to
all of the parcels of land.




(2)

If a lien is claimed under subsection (1) against several parcels of
land, on application to the court by any person with an interest in or
charge on the land, the court may apportion the lien among the parcels
for the purpose of determining the lien claimant's rights as against
persons having rights in particular parcels.






No claim under $200




17


A claim of lien must not be filed if the amount of the claim or
aggregate of joined claims is less than $200.






Procedure to file a claim of lien under the
Mineral Tenure Act




18

(1)


In order to file a claim of lien in respect of a mineral title held
under the

Mineral Tenure Act

other than a Crown granted mineral claim, the lien claimant must




(a)

file in the office of the gold commissioner in which the mineral title
is recorded a claim of lien in the prescribed form, and




(b)

if the property that is the subject of a mineral title is registered
in a land title office, also file in the land title office a copy of
the claim of lien.




(2)

On the filing of the claim of lien under subsection (1), the gold
commissioner must endorse a memorandum of the filing on the record of
the mineral title in the gold commissioner's office.




(3)

If the property that is the subject of a mineral title described in
the claim of lien is registered in a land title office, the registrar
must endorse a memorandum of the filing on the register of title to
the land or against the estate or interest in the land or mineral
title described in the claim of lien.






Liability for wrongful filing




19


A person who files a claim of lien against an estate or interest in
land to which the lien claimed does not attach is liable for costs and
damages incurred by an owner of any estate or interest in the land as
a result of the wrongful filing of the claim of lien.






Time for filing claim of lien




20

(1)


If a certificate of completion has been issued with respect to a
contract or subcontract, the claims of lien of




(a)

the contractor or subcontractor, and




(b)

any persons engaged by or under the contractor or subcontractor


may be filed no later than 45 days after the date on which the
certificate of completion was issued.




(2)

A claim of lien that is not governed by subsection (1) may be filed no
later than 45 days after




(a)

the head contract has been completed, abandoned or terminated, if the
owner engaged a head contractor, or




(b)

the improvement has been completed or abandoned, if paragraph (a) does
not apply.




(3)

Subsection (1) does not operate to extend or renew the time for filing
of a claim of lien if




(a)

that time would otherwise be determined with reference to the time an
earlier certificate of completion was issued, or




(b)

time had started to run under subsection (2).




(4)

On the filing of a claim of lien under this Act, the registrar or gold
commissioner has no duty to inquire as to whether or not the lien
claimant has complied with the time limit for filing the claim of
lien.






When claim of lien takes effect




21


A claim of lien filed under this Act takes effect from the time work
began or the time the first material was supplied for which the lien
is claimed, and it has priority over all judgments, executions,
attachments and receiving orders recovered, issued or made after that
date.






Lien extinguished if not filed as required by Act




22


A lien in respect of which a claim of lien is not filed in the manner
and within the time provided in this Act is extinguished.






Removal of claims of lien by payment of total amount recoverable




23

(1)


If a claim of lien is filed by one or more members of a class of lien
claimants, other than a class of lien claimants engaged by an owner,
the owner, contractor, subcontractor or mortgagee authorized by the
owner to disburse money secured by a mortgage may, on application, pay
into court the lesser of




(a)

the total amount of the claim or claims filed, and




(b)

the amount owing by the payor to the person engaged by the payor
through whom the liens are claimed provided the amount is at least
equal to the required holdback in relation to the contract or
subcontract between the payor and that person or, if the payment is
made by a purchaser to whom section 35 applies, 10% of the
purchase price of the improvement.




(2)

Payment into court under an order made under subsection (1) discharges
the owner from liability in respect of the claims of lien filed and




(a)

the money paid into court stands in place of the improvement and the
land or mineral title, and




(b)

the order must provide that the claims of lien be removed from the
title to the land or mineral title.




(3)

If an application has been made under subsection (1) and the claims of
lien have been removed under subsection (2), and if additional claims
of lien are filed by persons claiming through the same person engaged
by the payor with respect to the lien claimants whose claims of lien
were removed under subsection (2), application may be made under
subsection (1) to have the additional claims of lien removed under
subsection (2) on payment into court of whatever additional sum is
necessary to bring the amount in court up to the amount that would
have been paid into court if the additional claims of lien had been
filed at the time of the prior application.




(4)

An application under subsection (1) or (3) may be brought by an
application in proceedings that have been commenced to enforce a claim
of lien, or by petition, and the court may




(a)

hear and receive evidence, by affidavit or orally or otherwise, that
it considers necessary in order to determine the proper amount to be
paid into court,




(b)

direct the trial of an issue to determine the amount to be paid into
court, and




(c)

refuse the application if it is of the opinion that the determination
of the total amount that may be recovered by lien claimants should be
made at the trial of the action.




(5)

If the amount held back by the payor from the person engaged by the
payor through whom the liens are claimed exceeds the required holdback
in relation to the contract or subcontract between the payor and that
person, and that person has defaulted in completing or carrying out
the contract or subcontract with the payor, for the purposes of
subsections (1) and (3) the amount owing by the payor to that person
does not include any amount that the payor is entitled to apply to
remedy the default or complete the contract or subcontract.






Cancellation of claim of lien by giving security




24

(1)


A person against whose land a claim of lien has been filed, and a
contractor, subcontractor or any other person liable on a contract or
subcontract in connection with an improvement on the land, may apply
to a court to have the claim of lien cancelled on giving sufficient
security for the payment of the claim.




(2)

The court hearing the application under subsection (1) may, after
considering all relevant circumstances, order the cancellation of the
claim of lien on the giving of security satisfactory to the court.




(3)

The value of the security required under an order under subsection (2)
may be less than the amount of the claim of lien.




(4)

The registrar or gold commissioner in whose office a claim of lien is
filed must, on receiving an order or certified copy of the order made
under subsection (2), file it and cancel the claim of lien as to the
property affected by the order.




(5)

The giving of security for the payment of a claim of lien under
subsection (1) does not make the owner liable for a greater sum
than provided for in section 34.






Powers of court, registrar or gold commissioner to remove claim of
lien




25

(1)


An owner, contractor, subcontractor, lien claimant or agent of any of
them may at any time apply to the court, registrar or gold
commissioner and the court, registrar or gold commissioner may cancel
a claim of lien if satisfied that




(a)

a lien is extinguished under section 22 or 33,




(b)

an action to enforce the claim of lien has been dismissed and no
appeal from the dismissal has been taken within the time limited for
the appeal,




(c)

an action to enforce the claim of lien has been discontinued, or




(d)

the claim of lien has been satisfied.




(2)

An owner, contractor, subcontractor, lien claimant or agent of any of
them may at any time apply to the court and the court may cancel a
claim of lien if satisfied that




(a)

the claim of lien does not relate to the land against which it is
filed, or




(b)

the claim of lien is vexatious, frivolous or an abuse of process.




(3)

An application under subsection (1) or (2) may be made without notice
to any other person.






Enforcement of claim




26


A claim of lien may be enforced by an action according to the Supreme
Court Civil Rules.






Local venue for proceedings under this Act




27


Section 21 of the

Law and Equity Act

applies to a proceeding in respect of a claim of lien or other
proceeding under this Act in the same way that section applies to a
foreclosure proceeding on a mortgage.






Proof of filing of claim of lien




28


In a proceeding to enforce a claim of lien, the production of a copy
of the claim of lien disclosing the date of its filing and certified
by the registrar or gold commissioner is proof, in the absence of
evidence to the contrary, of the filing of the claim of lien and the
date of its filing.






Evidence of delivery of material




29


If a person to whom material is supplied signs an acknowledgement of
receipt of the material stating that it is received for inclusion in
an improvement at a named address, the acknowledgement is proof, in
the absence of evidence to the contrary, that the material was
delivered to the land described by the address.






Counterclaim and judgment for creditor




30

(1)


Subject to the rights of lien claimants engaged by or under the
plaintiff, a defendant in an action to enforce a claim of lien may set
up by way of counterclaim any right or claim arising out of the same
transaction for any amount, whether the counterclaim is for damages or
not.




(2)

On the trial of an action to enforce a claim of lien, the court may,
so far as the parties before it are debtor and creditor, give judgment
for any indebtedness or liability arising out of the claim of lien in
the same manner as if the indebtedness or liability had been the
subject of an action in the court without reference to this Act.






Court may order sale




31

(1)


In an action to enforce a claim of lien, the court may declare that
the lien claimant is entitled to a lien for the amount found to be
due.




(2)

If the owner has not been discharged under section 23 (2) of all
liability for claims of lien, the court may order the sale of the land
or the improvement, or the material supplied or the interest of the
owner in any of them.




(3)

If an estate or interest sold in proceedings under this Act is a
leasehold interest, the purchaser at the sale is conclusively deemed
to be an assignee of the lease.




(4)

For the purpose of effecting a sale of the land, the court may order
that any or all claims of lien filed in connection with the
improvement be removed from the title subject to conditions that it
considers appropriate.




(5)

The proceeds of the sale under this section must be paid into court
and must be allocated in accordance with section 36.




(6)

No order for the sale of an interest in land owned by the Crown or a
municipality may be made, but the court may give judgment for an
amount equal to the maximum liability under this Act, as owner against
either of them, and any money realized on the judgment must be dealt
with as if it were the proceeds of a sale of the interest in land.






Priority of secured lender




32

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), the amount secured in good faith by a
registered mortgage as either a direct or contingent liability of the
mortgagor has priority over the amount secured by a claim of lien.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), an advance by a mortgagee that results in an
increase in the direct or contingent liability of a mortgagor, or
both, under a registered mortgage occurring after the time a claim of
lien is filed ranks in priority after the amount secured by that claim
of lien.




(3)

In a proceeding for the enforcement of a claim of lien,




(a)

the court may order the sale of mortgaged land at an upset price of at
least the amount secured by all registered mortgages that have
priority over the claim of lien, court ordered costs and the costs of
the sale, and




(b)

the amount secured by any registered mortgages must be satisfied out
of the proceeds of the sale in the order of their priorities and in
priority over the claim of lien to the extent provided under this
section.




(4)

A mortgagee who applies mortgage money in payment of a claim of lien
that has been filed is subrogated to the rights and priority of the
lien claimant to the extent of the money applied.




(5)

Despite subsections (1) and (2) or any other enactment, if one or more
claims of lien are filed in a land title office in relation to an
improvement, a mortgagee may apply to the court for an order that one
or more further advances under the mortgage are to have priority over
the claims of lien.




(6)

On an application by a mortgagee under subsection (5), the court must
make the order if it is satisfied that




(a)

the advances will be applied to complete the improvement, and




(b)

the advances will result in an increased value of the land and the
improvement at least equal to the amount of the proposed advances.




(7)

An amount secured in good faith by a registered right to purchase land
has the same priority over the amount secured by a claim of lien as
has the amount secured by a registered mortgage under subsections (1)
and (2).




(8)

For the purposes of this Act, the vendor under a registered right to
purchase is deemed to be a mortgagee under a registered mortgage, and
the amount secured in good faith by the registered right to purchase
is subject to this section as though the amount had been secured in
good faith under a registered mortgage.






Limitation and notice to commence an action




33

(1)


If a claim of lien has been filed, an action to enforce the claim of
lien must be commenced and, unless the claim of lien has been removed
or cancelled under section 23 or 24, a certificate of pending
litigation in respect of the action must be registered, not later than
one year from the date of its filing, in the land title office or gold
commissioner's office in which the claim has been filed.




(2)

Despite subsection (1),




(a)

an owner, or




(b)

a lien claimant who has commenced an action


may serve on a lien claimant, or other lien claimants, as the case may
be, a notice to commence an action to enforce the claim of lien and to
register in the land title office or in the gold commissioner's
office, as the case may be, a certificate of pending litigation within
21 days after service of the notice.




(3)

The notice served under subsection (2) must be in the prescribed form,
and service is validly effected if the notice is




(a)

served personally on the lien claimant, or




(b)

mailed or delivered to the address for service given in the claim of
lien.




(4)

If service is by mail the notice is conclusively deemed to have been
served on the eighth day after deposit of the notice in the Canada
Post Office at any place in Canada.




(5)

Unless an action to enforce a claim of lien is commenced and a
certificate of pending litigation is registered within the time
provided in this section, the lien is extinguished.






Limit of claims




34

(1)


The maximum aggregate amount that may be recovered under this Act by
all lien holders who claim under the same contractor or subcontractor
is equal to the greater of




(a)

the amount owing to the contractor or subcontractor by the person who
engaged the contractor or subcontractor, and




(b)

the amount of the required holdback in relation to the contract
between the contractor or subcontractor and the person who engaged the
contractor or subcontractor.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1) (a),




(a)

an amount claimed by way of counterclaim against a contractor or
subcontractor by the person who engaged the contractor or
subcontractor does not reduce the amount owing to the contractor or
subcontractor by that person,




(b)

a payment that is made in bad faith to a contractor or subcontractor
by the person who engaged the contractor or subcontractor does not
reduce the amount owing to the contractor or subcontractor by that
person, and




(c)

a payment to a contractor or subcontractor by the person who engaged
the contractor or subcontractor that is made




(i)

after a claim of lien has been filed by a lien holder claiming under
the contractor or subcontractor,




(ii)

if the person has actual notice of the claim of lien, and




(iii)

if the claim of lien has not been removed or cancelled from the title
to the land, under section 23 or 24 or otherwise, at the
time the payment was made,


does not, to the extent of the lien, reduce the amount owing to the
contractor or subcontractor by that person.




(3)

Despite subsection (2), a person may, on the default of another person
that the first person engaged, apply money held by the first person in
excess of the required holdback in order to remedy that default or
compensate for damage caused by the default.






Maximum claim against purchaser's interest




35


The amount that may be claimed under this Act against the interest of
a purchaser in good faith of an improvement in respect of claims of
lien filed after the latest of




(a)

acceptance for registration of the purchaser's interest at a land
title office or gold commissioner's office,




(b)

completion, abandonment or termination of the head contract for
construction of the improvement, and




(c)

completion or abandonment of the improvement if the owner did not
engage a head contractor


must not exceed 10% of the purchase price of the improvement.






Allocation of proceeds from sale




36

(1)


In this section,
"owner's discharge sum"
means an amount that, if paid into court by the owner under
section 23, would be sufficient to discharge the owner from
liability with respect to all claims of lien filed by persons other
than contractors or workers engaged by the owner.




(2)

Subject to any order of the court in relation to the discharge of any
prior encumbrances or an order under section 32 (3), the proceeds from
a sale under section 31 must be distributed as follows:




(a)

the lesser of




(i)

the difference between the owner's discharge sum and any amount
previously paid into court by or on behalf of the owner under
section 23, and




(ii)

the proceeds from the sale under section 31


must be applied to the payments of the claims of persons other than
persons engaged by the owner and be distributed under section 37;




(b)

proceeds in excess of the amount allocated under paragraph (a)
must be applied to pay the claims of lien of persons engaged by the
owner and to pay the owner, and be distributed under section 38.






Distribution among claimants not engaged by owner




37

(1)


In this section:



"available holdback fund"

or

"holdback funds available"

means




(a)

the amount paid into court under section 23, and




(b)

the amount available for distribution under this section as calculated
under section 36 (2) (a);



"priority computation base"

of a class of lien claimants means the lesser of




(a)

the amount owing to the person who engaged the class of lien
claimants, and




(b)

the total amount of the claims of the class members.




(2)

The available holdback funds must be applied to pay and be distributed
to subcontractors and workers other than workers engaged by the owner
according to the following priority:




(a)

the costs of the lien claimants of and incidental to the proceedings
of filing and enforcing their claims of lien;




(b)

up to 6 weeks' wages, if that much is owed, to workers;




(c)

the amount of money owed




(i)

to the workers in excess of 6 weeks' wages, and




(ii)

to the subcontractors.




(3)

The holdback funds available to a category of lien claimants
constituted under subsection (2) (a) or (b) must be distributed
proportionally among the members of the category so that a single
member of the category is entitled to that proportion of the amount
recovered that the amount of the member's lien bears to the aggregate
amount of the liens of all members of the category.




(4)

Before the holdback funds available to lien claimants in the category
constituted under subsection (2) (c) are distributed, the holdback
funds must be allocated proportionally among the classes of lien
claimants so that each class is allocated that proportion of the
available holdback funds that the priority computation base of the
class bears to the aggregate amount of the priority computation bases
of all classes, including that of the class whose allocation is being
assessed.




(5)

The portion of the available holdback funds allocated to a class under
subsection (4) must be distributed proportionally among the members of
the class so that a single member of the class is entitled to that
proportion of the allocated funds that the amount of the member's lien
bears to the aggregate amount of the liens of all members of the
class.




(6)

In a distribution under this section a lien claimant is not entitled
to recover more than the amount of the claimant's lien claim and
entitlement to costs under subsection (2) (a).




(7)

Money distributed under this section is subject to
sections 10, 11 and 14.






Distribution among claimants engaged by owner




38

(1)


The portion of the proceeds of sale allocated under section 36 (2) (b)
must be applied to pay the claims of lien of contractors and workers
engaged by the owner, and to pay the owner, and distributed according
to the following priority:




(a)

the costs of lien claimants of and incidental to the proceedings of
filing and enforcing their claims of lien;




(b)

up to 6 weeks' wages, if that much is owed, to workers;




(c)

the amount of money owed




(i)

to the workers in excess of 6 weeks' wages, and




(ii)

to the contractors;




(d)

the owner.




(2)

The funds available to the members of a category of lien claimants
constituted under each of subsection (1) (a), (b) or (c) must be
distributed proportionally among the members of that category so that
a single member of the category is entitled to that proportion of the
amount recovered that the amount of the member's lien bears to the
aggregate amount of the liens of all members of the category, but a
lien claimant is not entitled to recover more than the amount of the
claimant's lien and entitlement to costs under subsection (1) (a).




(3)

Money distributed under this section is subject to
sections 10, 11 and 14.






During continuance of lien, property not to be removed




39

(1)


During the continuance of a lien, material must not be removed from
the land or the improvement to the prejudice of a lien holder.




(2)

An attempt at removal may be restrained on application to the court.






Subcontractor's lien enforceable despite noncompletion by another




40


A subcontractor may enforce the subcontractor's lien despite the
noncompletion or abandonment of the contract or subcontract by the
contractor or other subcontractor under whom the first subcontractor
claims.






Right to information




41

(1)


A lien holder or a beneficiary of a trust under this Act may, at any
time, by delivering a written request, require




(a)

from the owner




(i)

the terms of the head contract or contract under which the lien holder
of beneficiary claims, including the names of the parties to the
contract, the contract price and the state of accounts between the
owner and the head contractor,




(ii)

the name and address of the savings institution in which a holdback
account has been opened, and the account number,




(iii)

particulars of credits to and payments from the holdback account,
including the dates of credits and payments, and the balance at the
time the information is given, and




(iv)

particulars of any labour and material payment bond posted by the
contractor with the owner in respect of the head contract or contract
under which the lien holder or beneficiary claims, and




(b)

from a mortgagee or an unpaid vendor




(i)

the terms of the mortgage or agreement for sale,




(ii)

in the case of a mortgage, particulars of the amount advanced under
the mortgage, including the dates of advances, and of any arrears in
payment, and




(iii)

in the case of an agreement for sale, particulars of the amount
secured under the agreement for sale and any arrears in payment.




(2)

The owner may request in writing from




(a)

a subcontractor when a claim of lien has been filed or a written
notice of a claim of lien has been received by the owner, and




(b)

the contractor, at any time,

the following information:



(c)

the terms of any subcontract, including the names of the parties to
the subcontract, the subcontract price and the state of accounts
between the contractor and a subcontractor or between a subcontractor
and another subcontractor, or any other person providing work or
material;




(d)

particulars of any labour and material payment bond posted by a
subcontractor with the contractor or by a subcontractor with another
subcontractor.




(3)

The person to whom a request is made under subsection (1) or (2) must
comply within 10 days after the day the request is delivered.




(4)

A person who fails to comply in writing with a request within the time
provided in subsection (3), or who knowingly or negligently misstates
the information requested, is liable to the person requesting the
information for any resulting loss or damage.




(5)

On the failure of a person to comply with a request made under
subsection (2) within the time provided, the owner may also, if the
request is made of




(a)

a contractor, withhold further payments to the contractor, or




(b)

a subcontractor, instruct the contractor or another subcontractor to
withhold further payments to the subcontractor


until the contractor or subcontractor, as the case may be, has
complied with the request.




(6)

The court may, on application by an interested person at any time
before or after an action is commenced for the enforcement of a claim
of lien,




(a)

order that the owner, mortgagee, vendor, contractor or subcontractor
produce for inspection all contracts, subcontracts, documents, books
or records relating to the contract or subcontract or to the payment
of the contract or subcontract price,




(b)

order that any person referred to in paragraph (a) deliver to the
applicant copies of any documents referred to in that paragraph, and




(c)

make an order as to the costs of the application.






Certain acts, agreements, assignments void




42

(1)


A conveyance, mortgage or charge of or on land given for the purpose
of granting a lien holder a preference or priority is void for that
purpose.




(2)

An agreement that this Act is not to apply, or that the remedies
provided by it are not to be available for a person's benefit, is
void.




(3)

A device by an owner, contractor or subcontractor adopted to defeat
the priority given by this Act to a worker for the worker's wages is
void as against the worker.




(4)

No assignment by the contractor or subcontractor of any money due in
respect of the contract or subcontract is valid as against any lien or
trust created by this Act.






Lien may be assigned




43


A lien holder may assign in writing the lien holder's lien rights and,
if not assigned, lien rights may pass by operation of law.






Insurance money




44


If all or part of property subject to a lien under this Act is
destroyed by fire, insurance money receivable by the owner, mortgagee
or other encumbrancer as a result of the fire stands in place of the
property so destroyed, and is, after satisfying any mortgage, charge
or encumbrance, in the manner and to the extent set out in
section 36, subject to the claims of all persons for liens to the
same extent as if the insurance money were realized by the sale of the
property in an action to enforce a claim of lien.






Offence




45

(1)


A person who knowingly files or causes an agent to file a claim of
lien containing a false statement commits an offence.




(2)

A person who commits an offence under subsection (1) is liable to a
fine not exceeding the greater of $2 000 and the amount by which the
stated claim exceeds the actual claim.






Application of
Offence Act




46


Section 5 of the

Offence Act

does not apply to this Act or to the regulations.






Power to make regulations




47

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
section 41 of the

Interpretation Act

.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations as follows:




(a)

prescribing forms for the purposes of this Act;




(b)

prescribing a fee to be paid for filing a claim of lien, and providing
for the fee to be calculated on




(i)

the number of parcels of land to which the claim of lien purports to
attach, or




(ii)

the amount of the claim of lien;




(c)

respecting the administration of holdback accounts;




(d)

governing rights in relation to holdback accounts on a sale of an
improvement by an owner.




(3)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations the Lieutenant
Governor in Council considers necessary or advisable for meeting or
removing any difficulty arising out of the transition to this Act from
the Act repealed by this Act and for preserving and giving effect to
the rights of persons arising under the repealed Act except as those
rights are expressly varied by this Act, and the regulations may be
made to apply generally or to a particular case or class of cases.






Transition




48

(1)


In this section,
"transition project"
means an improvement for which the time for filing liens has not yet
expired under the Act repealed by this Act.




(2)

This Act applies to a transition project unless all parties agree that
the Act repealed by this Act continues to apply.




(3)

Despite this Act there is no obligation to create or maintain a
holdback account under section 5 on a transition project.




(4)

If this Act requires a person not previously required to retain a
holdback under the Act repealed by this Act to retain a holdback, it
is sufficient compliance with this Act if, in relation to a transition
project, the person retains a holdback only with respect to advances
or payments made after this Act comes into force.




(5)

Despite subsection (4), for the purposes of sections 23 and 34, in
relation to a transition project,
"required holdback"
means the amount that would have been retained if this Act had applied
to the transition project from the time the improvement was started.




(6)

In respect of a transition project, nothing done in compliance with
the law in force immediately before this Act comes into force is
invalidated by subsection (2).




(7)

[Not in force.]




(8)

In respect of a transition project, on the coming into force of this
Act money paid into court under section 20 (4) of the Act repealed by
this Act or under an order of the court under section 33 (2) of the
Act repealed by this Act is deemed to be money paid into court under
section 23 of this Act.




(9)

Parties to a dispute respecting a transition project may apply to the
court for directions as to the application of this section and the
regulations to the circumstances of the dispute.






Spent





49-54




[Consequential amendments and repeal. Spent. 1997-45-49 to 54.]







Commencement




55


This Act comes into force by regulation of the Lieutenant Governor in
Council.




