




Container Trucking Act
[SBC 2014] CHAPTER 28


Assented to November 27, 2014




Part 1 — Interpretation





Definitions




1


In this Act:



"commissioner"

means the British Columbia Container Trucking Commissioner appointed
under section 2;


"complaint"
means a complaint made under section 26;


"container"
has the meaning prescribed in the regulations;



"container trucking services"

means the transportation of a container by means of a truck;



"deemed licence"

means a trucking authorization deemed to be a licence by an order made
under section 17;


"director"
has the same meaning as in the

Employment Standards Act

;


"licence"
means




(a)

a licence issued by the commissioner under section 16, and




(b)

a deemed licence;


"licensee"
means a person who holds a licence;


"trucker"
means




(a)

a person who has an ownership interest or a leasehold interest in a
vehicle that is designed to be self-propelled,




(i)

to which a trailer, within the meaning of the

Motor Vehicle Act

, that is designed, used or intended for the carriage of containers is
or may be attached, and




(ii)

by which a trailer described in subparagraph (i) is or may be drawn,




(b)

an employee, within the meaning of the

Employment Standards Act

, of a licensee performing container trucking services, and




(c)

a person who drives a vehicle described in paragraph (a) on behalf of




(i)

a licensee, or




(ii)

a person referred to in paragraph (a);



"trucking authorization"

means a prescribed authorization issued under the

Canada Marine Act

to carry out container trucking services;



"wait time remuneration"

has the meaning prescribed in the regulations.




Part 2 — British Columbia Container Trucking Commissioner



Division 1 — Appointment of Commissioner





Commissioner




2

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council must appoint a British Columbia
Container Trucking Commissioner and may appoint not more than 2 deputy
commissioners.




(2)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may, subject to this section,
determine the remuneration and the terms and conditions of appointment
of the persons appointed under subsection (1).




(3)

Deputy commissioners must, on the request of the commissioner, provide
any assistance to the commissioner in the performance or exercise of
the commissioner's powers, duties and functions that may be requested
by the commissioner, including, without limitation, exercising any of
the decision-making powers of the commissioner, and a reference in
this Act to the commissioner includes a reference to the deputy
commissioners if and to the extent that the deputy commissioners have
been requested to assist the commissioner.




(4)

The definitions of "application", "constitutional question", "court",
"privative clause", "tribunal" and "tribunal's enabling Act" in
section 1 of the

Administrative Tribunals Act

and sections 21, 30, 44, 45, 46.3, 57, 58 and 61 of that Act apply to
the commissioner.




(5)

The commissioner may perform or exercise other powers, duties or
functions that the Lieutenant Governor in Council may prescribe.






Interim commissioner




3

(1)


Before making a first appointment under section 2, the Lieutenant
Governor in Council may appoint an employee appointed under the

Public Service Act

as the interim commissioner.




(2)

An appointment under subsection (1) is for a term specified by the
Lieutenant Governor in Council, or, if no term is specified, for a
term that ends on the date on which the term of the first person
appointed under section 2 commences.




(3)

The interim commissioner has all the powers, duties and functions of
the commissioner under this Act.






Commissioner's power to delegate




4

(1)


The commissioner may delegate to any person any of the commissioner's
powers, duties and functions under this Act, except the power to
delegate under this section.




(2)

A delegation under this section




(a)

may be cancelled,




(b)

does not prevent the commissioner performing or exercising the
delegated power, duty or function, and




(c)

may be made subject to the terms the commissioner considers
appropriate.




(3)

If the commissioner ceases to hold office, a delegation under this
section continues in effect




(a)

as long as the delegate continues in office, or




(b)

until cancelled by a succeeding commissioner.




(4)

A person who claims to be performing or exercising a power, duty or
function delegated by the commissioner under this section must, on
request, produce evidence of the delegation.






Employees and consultants




5

(1)


The commissioner may appoint, in accordance with the

Public Service Act

, employees necessary to enable the commissioner to perform the duties
of the office.




(2)

For the purpose of the application of the

Public Service Act

to subsection (1), the commissioner is declared to be a deputy
minister.




(3)

The commissioner may retain auditors, consultants, inspectors or other
persons or entities necessary to enable the commissioner to perform or
exercise the powers, duties and functions of the office and may enter
into agreements with the persons or entities respecting their
remuneration and the terms and conditions of their retainers.




(4)

The

Public Service Act

does not apply in respect of a person retained under
subsection (3).






Rules of practice and procedure




6

(1)


The commissioner may make rules respecting practice and procedure for
all applications, audits, complaints, reconsiderations, submissions
and hearings coming before the commissioner and for all
investigations.




(2)

The commissioner must make the rules respecting practice and procedure
made under this section accessible to the public in the manner the
commissioner considers appropriate.






Financial administration




7


The commissioner must, whenever required by the minister,




(a)

render detailed accounts of the revenues and expenditures of the
office of the commissioner for the period or to the day that the
minister designates, and




(b)

provide to the minister a budget, satisfactory to the minister, for an
upcoming fiscal year identified by the minister.






Persons not required to testify or produce evidence




8

(1)


The commissioner, a deputy commissioner or an employee appointed under
section 5 is not required to testify or produce evidence in any civil,
administrative or regulatory action or proceeding respecting records
or information obtained in the discharge of duties under this Act.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), the commissioner may be required by the
Supreme Court to produce the record of a proceeding that is the
subject of an application for judicial review under the

Judicial Review Procedure Act

.




Division 2 — Powers of Commissioner





Orders of commissioner




9

(1)


If a licensee fails to comply with any provision of this Act or the
regulations or with the licensee's licence, the commissioner may order
the licensee to comply with those requirements promptly or within a
period that the commissioner may specify.




(2)

An order of the commissioner takes effect immediately or on any later
date specified in the order.




(3)

If a work, act, matter or thing is, by order of the commissioner,
required to be performed or completed within a specified time, the
commissioner may, if the circumstances of the case in the
commissioner's opinion so require, extend the time so specified.






Fees, information and records required on application




10


The commissioner may,




(a)

subject to the approval of Treasury Board, establish fees for the
purposes of sections 16 (3) (b) and 20 (b), and




(b)

identify information and records that must be submitted on an
application under section 16.






Publication required




11


The commissioner must publish, in accordance with the regulations,




(a)

orders made under section 9,




(b)

application requirements identified under section 10 (b),




(c)

annual fees established under section 10 (a) for the purposes of
section 20 (b), and




(d)

orders made under section 22 (3) or (4).






Jurisdiction of commissioner exclusive




12

(1)


The commissioner has exclusive jurisdiction in all cases and for all
matters in which jurisdiction is conferred on the commissioner by this
or any other enactment.




(2)

An order, decision or proceeding of the commissioner must not be
questioned, reviewed or restrained by any process or proceeding in any
court.




Division 3 — Reports of Commissioner





Annual reports




13


Within 5 months after the end of each fiscal year, the commissioner
must make a report to the minister for the preceding fiscal year,
setting out briefly




(a)

all applications to the commissioner under this Act,




(b)

all orders issued by the commissioner,




(c)

the financial statements applicable to the office of the commissioner
including full disclosure of the expenses of, and associated with, the
office of the commissioner, and




(d)

other information the minister, by order, specifies.






Commissioner to make recommendations




14


In addition to any other reports the commissioner may or must provide
under this Act, the commissioner must, when directed to do so by the
minister,




(a)

review this Act and recommend to the minister any amendments to this
Act that the commissioner considers will better enable the
commissioner to perform or exercise the commissioner's powers, duties
and functions under this Act, and




(b)

report to the minister on any other matter, as specified by the
minister.




Division 4 — Fees





Fees




15


The commissioner must pay into the consolidated revenue fund all fees
paid to the commissioner.




Part 3 — Licences, Rates and Fuel Surcharges



Division 1 — Licences





Licence required




16

(1)


A person must not carry out prescribed container trucking services in
a prescribed area unless




(a)

the person holds a licence issued to that person that gives the person
permission to carry out container trucking services in the specified
prescribed area, and




(b)

the person carries out the container trucking service in compliance
with




(i)

this Act and the regulations,




(ii)

the licence, and




(iii)

if applicable, an order issued to the person under this Act.




(2)

The commissioner, by publishing an advertisement in accordance with
the regulations, may invite applications for a licence.




(3)

Within the time specified in an advertisement published under
subsection (2), a person may apply to the commissioner for a licence
by submitting, in the form and manner the commissioner requires,




(a)

the required information and records,




(b)

the required fee, and




(c)

the security required under section 20, if any.




(4)

Subject to subsection (5), on receiving an application under
subsection (3) and after considering the prescribed matters, if any,
the commissioner may




(a)

issue a licence to an applicant if the applicant meets the prescribed
requirements, or




(b)

refuse to issue a licence.




(5)

If the commissioner refuses, under subsection (4) (b), to issue a
licence to an applicant, the commissioner must provide notice to the
applicant of that refusal.






Trucking authorization deemed to be licence




17

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may, by order, deem each trucking
authorization in a specified class of trucking authorizations to be a
licence under this Act.




(2)

An order made under subsection (1) may also specify a class of deemed
licences for the purposes of subsection (3).




(3)

If a trucking authorization that is a deemed licence




(a)

is cancelled by the authority that issued or otherwise granted the
trucking authorization, or




(b)

otherwise expires,


the deemed licence expires on the date of that cancellation or expiry,
if the deemed licence is in a class of deemed licences specified under
subsection (2).






Conditions on licence




18

(1)


In issuing a licence under section 16 (4) (a), the commissioner may
impose any conditions that the commissioner considers necessary.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the commissioner may impose a
condition on a licence respecting




(a)

the payment of wait time remuneration by the licensee to truckers
employed or retained by the licensee, and




(b)

subject to the regulations, if any, the terms and conditions of
employment or retainers respecting truckers employed or retained by
the licensee.






Amendment of licence




19

(1)


After giving a licensee an opportunity to be heard, the commissioner
may amend a licensee's licence.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the commissioner may amend a licence
to impose a condition respecting the payment of wait time remuneration
by the licensee to truckers employed or retained by the licensee.




(3)

If the commissioner amends a licence under this section, the
commissioner must provide notice to the licensee of the amendment.






Security and annual fees




20


The commissioner, by order or by imposition of a condition under
section 18 or 19, may require




(a)

a licensee or an applicant for a licence to provide security to the
commissioner, in the amount the commissioner requires and in
accordance with the regulations, to ensure the performance of an
obligation under this Act or a licence, and




(b)

a licensee to pay an annual fee, in the amount and at the time
specified in the order.






Cancellation of licence




21

(1)


The commissioner, after providing notice to the licensee, may cancel a
licence if the commissioner is satisfied that the licensee is no
longer carrying out container trucking services.




(2)

If the commissioner cancels a licence under subsection (1), the
commissioner must provide notice to the former licensee of the
cancellation.




Division 2 — Rates and Fuel Surcharges





Rates and fuel surcharges may be established




22

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may, by regulation,




(a)

establish an initial minimum rate that a licensee must pay to a
trucker who provides, in specified circumstances, specified container
trucking services to or on behalf of the licensee,




(b)

establish a rate under paragraph (a) based on one or more of the
following:




(i)

a rate per trip;




(ii)

an hourly rate;




(iii)

any other basis the Lieutenant Governor in Council considers
appropriate,




(c)

for the purposes of paragraph (a), specify one or more circumstances
and one or more container trucking services on any one or more of the
following:




(i)

the starting point of the container trucking services;




(ii)

the end point of the container trucking services;




(iii)

the geographic area within which the container trucking services are
carried out;




(iv)

the dates or times of the container trucking services;




(v)

the duration or distance travelled during the carrying out of the
container trucking services;




(vi)

any other basis the Lieutenant Governor in Council considers
appropriate,




(d)

for the purposes of paragraph (b) (i), specify which container
trucking services or which parts of the container trucking services
constitute a trip to which a rate established under paragraph (b) is
to apply,




(e)

specify the time by which a rate established under paragraph (a) must
be paid, and




(f)

establish an initial minimum fuel surcharge, based on a specified unit
of fuel used during the provision of container trucking services, that
a licensee must pay to a trucker who provides, in specified
circumstances, specified container trucking services to or on behalf
of the licensee.




(2)

For certainty, an initial minimum rate and an initial minimum fuel
surcharge established under subsection (1) may be based on container
trucking services provided before this section comes into force.




(3)

If the Lieutenant Governor in Council repeals the initial minimum rate
established under subsection (1), the commissioner may establish, by
order, a minimum rate, and, for that purpose, subsection (1) applies
as if a reference in that subsection to the Lieutenant Governor in
Council were a reference to the commissioner.




(4)

If the Lieutenant Governor in Council repeals the initial minimum fuel
surcharge established under subsection (1), the commissioner may
establish, by order, a minimum fuel surcharge, and, for that purpose,
subsection (1) applies as if a reference in that subsection to the
Lieutenant Governor in Council were a reference to the commissioner.




(5)

An order made under subsection (3) or (4) comes into force on the date
the order is published under section 11 or on a later date specified
in the order.




Division 3 — Obligations on Licensees





Compliance with established rate




23

(1)


A licensee, in seeking to employ or retain a trucker to provide
container trucking services to or on behalf of the licensee, must not
offer to the trucker, or require or request the trucker to accept, a
rate or a fuel surcharge that is less than the rate or fuel surcharge
established under section 22 for those container trucking services.




(2)

A licensee who employs or retains a trucker to provide container
trucking services must pay the trucker a rate and a fuel surcharge
that is not less than the rate and fuel surcharge established under
section 22 for those container trucking services.




(3)

For certainty, subsection (2) applies despite any provision of a
collective agreement to the contrary.






Financial set-offs, commissions and deductions




24


A licensee must not solicit or receive, directly or indirectly, a
financial set-off, commission or rate deduction or rebate from a
trucker.






Records




25


For each trucker employed or retained to provide container trucking
services, the licensee must prepare and keep records as required by
the commissioner.




Part 4 — Enforcement



Division 1 — Complaints





Complaint




26


Any person may, in accordance with rules made under section 6, make a
complaint to the commissioner that a licensee or a trucker has
contravened a provision of this Act.






If complainant requests identity be kept confidential




27


If requested by a complainant, the commissioner must make best efforts
to avoid disclosing any identifying information respecting the
complainant unless the disclosure is necessary for the purposes of a
proceeding under this Part.






Trucker not to be mistreated because of complaint, inspection or
investigation




28


A licensee must not do any of the following because a complaint,
inspection or investigation may be or has been made under this Part,
because other action may be or has been taken under this Part or
because information may be or has been supplied under this Part:




(a)

refuse to employ or retain or refuse to continue to employ or retain a
trucker;




(b)

threaten a trucker;




(c)

discriminate against or threaten to discriminate against a trucker
with respect to container trucking services;




(d)

intimidate or coerce or impose a monetary or other penalty on a
trucker.






Commissioner to pursue complaints




29

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), the commissioner must accept and review a
complaint made in accordance with section 26.




(2)

The commissioner may refuse to accept or review a complaint or may
stop or postpone reviewing a complaint if




(a)

the complaint is not made or delivered to the commissioner in
accordance with section 26,




(b)

the complaint is frivolous, vexatious or trivial or is not made in
good faith,




(c)

there is no reasonable prospect that the complaint will succeed,




(d)

a proceeding relating to the subject matter of the complaint has been
commenced before a court, a tribunal, an arbitrator or a mediator,




(e)

a court, a tribunal or an arbitrator has made a decision or an award
relating to the subject matter of the complaint, or




(f)

the dispute that caused the complaint is resolved.




(3)

If the commissioner refuses to accept or review a complaint or stops
or postpones reviewing a complaint, the commissioner must provide
notice to the complainant of the decision, and the notice must advise
the complainant of the reasons for that decision.






Commissioner may share information




30

(1)


The commissioner may enter into an information-sharing agreement with
the director or a person or entity approved by the Lieutenant Governor
in Council.




(2)

An information-sharing agreement may only be entered into




(a)

for the purposes of the administration of this Act,




(b)

for the purposes of the administration of the

Employment Standards Act

, or




(c)

for any other purpose specified by the Lieutenant Governor in Council.




Division 2 — Audits, Inspections and Investigations





Commissioner may conduct audit or investigation




31


The commissioner may conduct an audit or investigation to ensure
compliance with this Act, the regulations and a licence, whether or
not the commissioner has received a complaint.






Entry and inspection powers




32

(1)


For the purpose of an audit or investigation under section 31 or for
the purposes of reviewing, investigating or adjudicating a complaint,
the commissioner may, if the commissioner has reasonable grounds to
believe that there has been a contravention of this Act or the
regulations, do one or more of the following:




(a)

enter during regular working hours any place, including any means of
conveyance or transport, where




(i)

a licensee carries on business or stores assets or records relating to
the licensee's business,




(ii)

a record required for the purposes of this Part is kept, or




(iii)

anything to which this Part applies is taking place or has taken
place;




(b)

inspect, and question a person respecting, any work, container, means
of conveyance or transport or other thing in the place;




(c)

inspect any records and things that may be relevant to an
investigation under this Part;




(d)

on giving a receipt for a record inspected under paragraph (c), remove
the record to make copies or extracts;




(e)

require a person to disclose, under oath or affirmation, either orally
or in writing, a matter required under this Part;




(f)

require a person to produce, or to deliver to a place specified by the
commissioner, any records and things for inspection under paragraph
(c).




(2)

Despite subsection (1), the commissioner may enter a place occupied as
a private residence only with the consent of the occupant or under the
authority of a warrant issued under section 33.




(3)

A licensee or trucker must not obstruct the commissioner's inspection
under this section or withhold, destroy, conceal or refuse to produce
any information, record or thing that is required by the commissioner
for the purposes of the inspection or is otherwise relevant to any of
the matters in respect of which the inspection may be conducted.




(4)

Without limiting section 27, a person, including the commissioner,
must not disclose or be compelled to disclose any information, record
or thing that is obtained in the course of an inspection unless the
disclosure is necessary in the administration of this Act or is
otherwise required by law.




(5)

If an original of a record or thing is produced, or delivered to or
removed by the commissioner, the commissioner must, within 10 days
after being requested to do so by the person from whom the original
record or thing was obtained, return the original record or thing to
that person.




(6)

Copies of or extracts from records or things produced, delivered or
removed that are certified by the commissioner as being true copies of
or extracts from the originals are admissible in evidence to the same
extent, and have the same evidentiary value, as the original records
or things.






Warrant to exercise audit and inspection powers




33


If satisfied that there are reasonable grounds to believe there are in
a private residence records or things that are relevant to an
investigation under this Part, a justice may issue a warrant
authorizing the person named in the warrant to enter the private
residence in accordance with the warrant in order to exercise the
powers referred to in section 32.




Division 3 — Penalties





Penalties relating to licences




34

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), if the commissioner is satisfied that a
licensee has failed to comply with this Act or the terms and
conditions of the licensee's licence, the commissioner may, in
accordance with this Part and within 6 months after becoming
aware of the licensee's failure to comply, take one or more of the
following actions:




(a)

order that the licensee's licence be suspended for the period
specified by the commissioner;




(b)

order that the licensee's licence be cancelled;




(c)

order that an administrative fine be imposed on the licensee.




(2)

If the commissioner proposes to impose a penalty under subsection (1),
the commissioner must provide notice to the licensee of that
intention, and the notice must




(a)

advise which of the penalties referred to in subsection (1) the
commissioner proposes to impose,




(b)

if the commissioner proposes to impose a penalty referred to in
subsection (1) (a), indicate the period proposed for that
suspension or prohibition,




(c)

if the commissioner proposes to impose a penalty referred to in
subsection (1) (c), indicate the amount of the proposed
administrative fine,




(d)

set out the reasons for the proposed penalty,




(e)

advise that the licensee may, within 7 days after receipt of the
notice, provide to the commissioner a written response setting out why
the proposed penalty should not be imposed, and




(f)

advise that the commissioner will, if the licensee provides a written
response in accordance with paragraph (e), provide notice to the
licensee of the commissioner's decision respecting that response.




(3)

If a licensee who receives a notice under subsection (2) does not
provide a written response within the time specified in the notice,
the commissioner




(a)

may impose the penalty proposed in the notice, and




(b)

must provide notice to the licensee of any penalty imposed.




(4)

If a licensee who receives a notice under subsection (2) provides a
written response within the time specified in the notice, the
commissioner must consider that response and may make a decision to




(a)

refrain from imposing any or all of the proposed penalties, or




(b)

impose any or all of the proposed penalties.




(5)

The commissioner must provide notice to the licensee of the
commissioner's decision under subsection (4).




(6)

A penalty referred to




(a)

in subsection (1) (a) must not exceed a period of 1 year, and




(b)

in subsection (1) (c) must not exceed the prescribed amount.




(7)

On application, the commissioner may, at any time after imposing a
penalty under subsection (1), reduce or rescind that penalty.






Imposition of administrative fines




35

(1)


If an administrative fine is imposed under section 34 (1) (c), the
notice provided under section 34 (3) (b) or (5) must advise the
licensee of the amount and manner of payment of the administrative
fine.




(2)

A licensee who is subject to an administrative fine must pay the fine
amount to the commissioner within 30 days after the date of the
notice.




(3)

The commissioner must pay all amounts derived from administrative
fines into the consolidated revenue fund.




(4)

If, after an administrative fine has been paid, the amount of the
administrative fine is reduced or cancelled on a reconsideration under
section 39, the amount to be returned to the licensee must be paid out
of the consolidated revenue fund without an appropriation other than
this section.




(5)

If a licensee who is subject to an administrative fine does not pay
the full amount of the administrative fine to the commissioner within
the time required under subsection (2), the commissioner may
issue a certificate setting out the unpaid amount of the
administrative fine and, in that event,




(a)

the certificate is conclusive as to the unpaid amount of the
administrative fine,




(b)

that amount is a debt due to the government by the licensee, and




(c)

the certificate, if filed in the Supreme Court, has the same effect
and is subject to the same proceedings as a judgment of the court for
the recovery of a debt in the amount stated in the certificate against
the person named in it.




Part 5 — Reconsiderations





Definitions




36


In this Part:



"commissioner's decision"

means a decision of the commissioner under
section 16 (4) (b), 21 or 34 (3) or (4);



"decision notice"

means a notice provided to a licensee under
section 16 (5), 21 (2)
or 34 (3) (b) or (5).






Decision notice must include advice respecting reconsideration




37


A decision notice must include notification that the person to whom
the decision notice is addressed may request a reconsideration by the
commissioner of the commissioner's decision.






Initiating reconsiderations




38

(1)


A commissioner's decision may be reconsidered by filing a notice of
reconsideration with the commissioner not more than 30 days after the
licensee's receipt of the decision notice.




(2)

The commissioner may extend the time to file a notice of
reconsideration, whether or not the time to file the notice of
reconsideration under subsection (1) has expired, if the commissioner
is satisfied that




(a)

special circumstances existed that precluded the filing of that notice
of reconsideration within the time required in subsection (1), and




(b)

an injustice would otherwise result.




(3)

A notice of reconsideration must




(a)

be made in writing or in another form satisfactory to the
commissioner,




(b)

identify the decision for which a reconsideration is requested,




(c)

state why the decision should be changed,




(d)

state the outcome requested,




(e)

include the name, address and telephone number of the appellant, and,
if the appellant has an agent to act on the appellant's behalf in
respect of the appeal, include the full name of the agent and a
telephone number at which the agent may be contacted during normal
business hours,




(f)

include an address for delivery of any notices in respect of the
appeal, and




(g)

be signed by the appellant or the appellant's agent.




(4)

Despite subsection (3), if a notice of reconsideration is deficient,
the commissioner may in the commissioner's discretion allow a
reasonable period of time within which the notice of reconsideration
may be perfected.






Reconsiderations




39

(1)


Despite the filing of a notice of reconsideration under section 38 (1)
but subject to subsection (2) of this section, the commissioner's
decision that is subject to the reconsideration remains in effect
until the outcome of the reconsideration.




(2)

On a reconsideration from an order of the commissioner referred to in
section 34 (1) (a), (b) or (c), the commissioner
may, at any time before making a final determination on the
reconsideration, order that the commissioner's order be suspended
until the outcome of the reconsideration.




(3)

On a reconsideration under this section, the commissioner must, after
considering the information provided by the licensee,




(a)

rescind the commissioner's decision, or




(b)

confirm the commissioner's decision.




(4)

The commissioner must provide notice to the licensee of the decision
made under subsection (3).




(5)

If the suspension or cancellation of a licence is rescinded, the
commissioner must promptly reinstate and, if necessary, reissue the
licence that was suspended or cancelled.




(6)

If the imposition of a condition or the amendment of a licence is
rescinded, the commissioner must promptly reissue the licence with the
condition removed or the amendment reversed.




Part 6 — General





Compliance with orders




40


A person to whom an order under this Act applies must comply with the
order.






Offence Act




41


Section 5 of the

Offence Act

does not apply to this Act or the regulations.






Offences




42

(1)


A person who contravenes section 16 or subsection (2) of this section
commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10 000.




(2)

A person must not purport to be




(a)

a licensee, or




(b)

a trucker authorized to carry out container trucking services to or on
behalf of a licensee


unless the person is a licensee or trucker authorized to carry out
container trucking services to or on behalf of a licensee.






Time limit for commencing prosecution




43

(1)


The time limit for laying an information to commence a prosecution for
an offence under this Act is




(a)

3 years after the date on which the act or omission that is alleged to
constitute the offence occurred, or




(b)

if the commissioner issues a certificate described in subsection (2),
3 years after the date on which the commissioner learned of the act or
omission referred to in paragraph (a).




(2)

A certificate purporting to have been issued by the commissioner
certifying the date referred to in subsection (1) (b) is proof of that
date.






Power to make regulations




44

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
section 41 of the

Interpretation Act

.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1) or section 22, the Lieutenant Governor
in Council may make the following regulations:




(a)

defining "container" and "wait time remuneration" in section 1 and any
other word or expression used but not defined in this Act;




(b)

identifying authorizations for the purposes of the definition of
"trucking authorization" in section 1;




(c)

prescribing additional powers, duties or functions for the purposes of
section 2 (5);




(d)

prescribing publication requirements for the purposes of section 11;




(e)

prescribing types of container trucking services for the purposes of
section 16 (1);




(f)

prescribing areas for the purposes of section 16 (1);




(g)

prescribing requirements for the purposes of section 16 (2);




(h)

prescribing matters for the purposes of section 16 (4);




(i)

respecting conditions referred to in section 18 (2) (b);




(j)

respecting security required under section 20, including, without
limitation, prescribing




(i)

the minimum or maximum amount of security, or both, that may be
required,




(ii)

the forms of security that may be provided, and




(iii)

the circumstances under which security may be realized;




(k)

prescribing amounts for the purposes of section 34 (6) (b);




(l)

prescribing rules of practice and procedure for the commissioner.




(3)

If the Lieutenant Governor in Council prescribes rules of practice and
procedure for the commissioner under subsection (2) (l), any rules
made by the commissioner are inapplicable to the extent they are
inconsistent with the prescribed rules.






Commencement




45


This Act comes into force by regulation of the Lieutenant Governor in
Council.




