




County Boundary Act


[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER
75










Division of British Columbia into counties





1



For all purposes of the administration of justice, and if it is not otherwise
provided in an Act relating to a special branch of it, and for all other purposes
dealt with in any Act if the provisions of this Act are incorporated or referred to,
British Columbia is divided into divisions known and described as
"counties".








Limits of counties bounded by water





2



(1)


The limits of all counties bounded or partially bounded by the sea extend
to the boundary of the jurisdiction of the courts of British
Columbia.






(2)


The limits of all counties on any inlet, gulf or strait, lake, bay or
river extend to the middle of the inlet, gulf or strait, lake or bay, and to the
middle of the main channel of the river and, unless otherwise provided, also
include all the islands the whole or the greater part of which are comprised
within the outlines of the counties prolonged.








Power of Lieutenant Governor to remedy and settle
boundaries





3



(1)


The Lieutenant Governor may by proclamation






(a)


annex any small tract of land, not forming part of a county, to a
county, or partly to one or more counties to which it may be adjacent,
and






(b)


settle any doubt which may arise or exist in regard to the boundaries
on the ground of a county.






(2)


If the Lieutenant Governor exercises the power under subsection (1)
(a), the tract then forms part of the county to which it is
annexed.






(3)


If the Lieutenant Governor exercises the power under subsection (1)
(b), the boundaries are then the boundaries between the counties
affected for the distance specified.








Alteration: effect on process





4



(1)


A sheriff, the boundaries of whose county are at any time altered, may,
despite the alteration, proceed on and complete the enforcement or service
within the limits of the old county of any final process in the sheriff's hands
at the time of the alteration, or of any renewal of the process, or of any
subsequent process in the same suit.






(2)


The acts of the sheriff are valid to the same extent as if the alteration
had not been made.








County of Cariboo





5



All that portion of British Columbia contained within the following boundaries
is to be known as the County of Cariboo:




Commencing at the northeast corner of the Province; thence westerly along
the northerly boundary of the Province to the 126th meridian of West longitude;
thence South along said meridian to the northerly boundary of the watershed of
the Peace River; thence westerly, southerly and southeasterly along the boundary
of the watershed of the Peace River to the point thereon which lies due North of
mile-post 34 as set on the 55th parallel of North latitude as established by
survey upon the ground; thence South to said mile-post; thence westerly along
said surveyed parallel to the 125th meridian of West longitude; thence South
along said meridian to the northerly boundary of Indian Reserve No. 2,
(Soyandostar); thence easterly and southerly along the boundaries of said Indian
reserve to the southeast corner thereof, being a point on the northerly shore of
Trembleur Lake; thence easterly, southerly and westerly following the shore of
said lake to the 125th meridian; thence South along said meridian to the
northerly boundary of Lot 3654, Range 5, Coast Land District; thence westerly
and southerly along the boundaries of Lot 3654 to the more northerly southwest
corner thereof; thence due South to meet the line drawn due West from the more
southerly southwest corner of Lot 3654; thence East to the 125th meridian;
thence South along said meridian to the northerly boundary of Lot 2842; thence
easterly and southerly along the boundaries of Lot 2842 to the southeasterly
corner thereof, being a point on the northerly shore of Stuart Lake; thence
westerly along said shore to the 125th meridian; thence South along said
meridian to the northerly boundary of Lot 4953; thence easterly along said
boundary to the northeast corner of Lot 4953; thence southerly along the
easterly boundaries of Lots 4953 and 4952 to the southeasterly corner of
Lot 4952, being a point on the northerly shore of Whitefish Lake; thence
westerly, southerly, and easterly along the shore of said lake to the 125th
meridian; thence South along said meridian to the northerly boundary of
Lot 4951; thence easterly and southerly along the boundaries of Lot 4951 to the
northerly boundary of Lot 5034; thence westerly, southerly, and easterly along
the boundaries of Lot 5034 to the 125th meridian; thence South along said
meridian to the northerly boundary of Lot 3257; thence easterly along said
boundary of Lot 3257 to the northeast corner thereof; thence southerly along the
easterly boundaries of Lots 3257, 3254, 3832, 6399, and 5989 to the southeast
corner of Lot 5989; thence westerly along the southerly boundary of Lot 5989 to
the southwest corner thereof; thence southerly along the westerly boundaries of
Lots 5998 and 2495 to the southwest corner of Lot 2495; thence easterly along
the southerly boundary of Lot 2495 to the 125th meridian; thence South along
said meridian to the northerly boundary of Lot 2570; thence easterly and
southerly along the boundaries of Lot 2570 to the southeast corner thereof;
thence westerly and southerly along the boundaries of Lot 2571 to the
southwesterly corner thereof, being a point on the northerly bank of the
Stellako River; thence in a straight line to the northeasterly corner of
Lot 2563; thence southerly following the easterly boundary of Lot 2563 to the
southeasterly corner thereof, being a point on the northerly shore of Francois
Lake — all the lots herein above mentioned, beginning with Lot 3654, being in
Range 5, Coast Land District; thence easterly, southerly, and westerly along the
shore of said lake to the northwesterly corner of Lot 1677, Range 4, Coast Land
District; thence southerly and easterly along the boundaries of Lot 1677 to the
125th meridian; thence South along said meridian to the 53rd parallel of North
latitude as established by survey upon the ground; thence westerly along said
surveyed parallel to mile-post 93 as set thereon; thence due West to the Cascade
Mountains, as defined by the


Interpretation Act


; thence southeasterly					along the Cascade Mountains to the easterly boundary of the watershed of the
streams flowing westerly and southerly into Toba and Jervis Inlets and into Howe
Sound; thence southeasterly along said boundary to the northerly boundary of the
watershed of the Soo River; thence easterly along said boundary to the point of
intersection thereof with the line drawn on a bearing of N45ºW from the post as
established by survey on the parallel of North latitude of 50º14' about 8 chains
West of Soo River; thence S45ºE to said survey-post; thence East along said
parallel to the easterly boundary of the watershed of Green River; thence
southerly along said boundary to the northerly boundary of the watershed of
Billygoat Creek; thence southeasterly along said boundary to the point thereon
which lies due West of the northwest corner of Lot 5536, Group 1, New
Westminster Land District; thence East to said corner; thence easterly along the
northerly boundary of Lot 5536 to the northeast corner thereof; thence due East
to the Cascade Mountains; thence southerly along the Cascade Mountains to the
northerly boundary of the watershed of Nahatlatch (Salmon) River; thence
easterly along said boundary to the northerly boundary of Township 12, Range 27,
West of the 6th meridian; thence easterly along the northerly boundaries of
Township 12 in Ranges 27, 26 and 25 West of the 6th meridian to the westerly
boundary of the watershed of the Nicola River; thence northerly along said
boundary to the northwesterly boundary of the watershed of Prospect Creek;
thence northeasterly along said boundary and that of the northwesterly boundary
of the watershed of Nuaitch Creek to the West boundary of Township 14, Range 23,
West of the 6th meridian; thence northerly along said boundary of said township
to the northwest corner thereof; thence easterly along the North boundary of
said township to the westerly boundary of Indian Reserve No. 10 (Nooaitch);
thence northerly, easterly and southerly along the boundaries of said Indian
reserve to the point of intersection of the easterly boundary thereof with the
southerly boundary of Section 3 of Township 15, Range 23, West of the 6th
meridian; thence easterly along the southerly boundary of said township and that
of Township 15, Range 22, West of the 6th meridian, to the westerly boundary of
the watershed of Guichon (Mamit) Creek; thence northerly and easterly along said
boundary to the easterly boundary of Township 19, Range 22, West of the 6th
meridian; thence northerly along said easterly boundary and that of Township 20
of said Range 22 to the northerly bank of the Thompson River; thence easterly
along said riverbank to the southeasterly corner of Lot 2457, Kamloops Land
District; thence northwesterly along the easterly boundary of Lot 2457 and that
of the Deadman Creek Indian Reserve to the West boundary of Township 21,
Range 21, West of the 6th meridian; thence northerly along said boundary and
that of Township 22, Range 21, to the southwest corner of Section 18 thereof;
thence easterly along the southerly boundaries of Sections 18, 17, 16, 15, 14
and 13 of said township and the southerly boundary of Section 18 of Township 22,
Range 20, West of the 6th meridian, to the southeast corner of Section 18;
thence northerly following the easterly boundaries of Sections 18, 19, 30 and 31
to the North boundary of said Township 22; thence easterly along said boundary
to the easterly boundary of the watershed of Criss Creek; thence in a general
northeasterly direction along said boundary to the northerly boundary of
Township 23, Range 18, West of the 6th meridian; thence westerly along said
boundary to the southeast corner of Section 1, Township 24, Range 19; thence
northerly, westerly and northerly following the easterly boundary of Section 1,
the northerly boundaries of Sections 1 and 2, and the easterly boundary of
Section 10, respectively, to the northeast corner of Section 10; thence easterly
for a distance of 4.56 chains, more or less, to the post set by survey at the
southerly extremity of the surveyed easterly boundary of the Lillooet Land
District; thence northerly along said boundary a distance of 65 miles and 50.58
chains, more or less, to the northeast corner of Lillooet Land District, being a
point on the 52nd parallel of North latitude, as established by survey upon the
ground, 46.75 chains, more or less, easterly from mile-post 60 set on said
parallel; thence due East to the westerly boundary of the watershed of the
streams flowing into the Clearwater River North of the mouth of Mahood River;
thence northerly along the westerly boundary of the watershed of the Clearwater
River to the northerly boundary thereof; thence southeasterly along said
northerly boundary and that of the watershed of the North Thompson River to the
most easterly point thereon which lies due West of the southwest corner of
Lot 7383, Cariboo Land District; thence East to said corner; thence easterly
along the southerly boundary of Lot 7383 and the northerly boundary of Lot 3103,
Kamloops Land District, to the northeast corner of Lot 3103; thence due East to
the westerly boundary of the watershed of the Canoe River; thence in a southerly
direction along said boundary to the southerly boundary of the watershed of
Foster Creek; thence easterly along said boundary to the Canoe River and
continuing easterly across the Canoe River to and along the southerly boundary
of the watershed of Baker Creek to the easterly boundary of the Province; thence
northwesterly and northerly along said Provincial boundary to the point of
commencement.








County of Kootenay





6



All that portion of British Columbia contained within the following boundaries
is to be known as the County of Kootenay:




Commencing at the point of intersection of the southerly boundary of the
Province with the westerly boundary of the watershed of July Creek; thence
northerly along said boundary to the intersection thereof with the southerly
boundary of Lot 1580(S), Similkameen Division of Yale Land District; thence
easterly, northerly and westerly along the boundaries of said lot to the
northeast corner of Lot 1579(S); thence westerly along the northerly boundary of
Lot 1579(S) to the southeast corner of Lot 2376(S); thence northerly along the
easterly boundaries of Lots 2376(S), 2374(S), 2500(S), 2499(S), and 515(S) to
the southerly boundary of Lot 1695; thence easterly, northerly and westerly
along the boundaries of Lot 1695 to the easterly boundary of Lot 2702; thence
northerly along said boundary to the southerly boundary of Lot 1776; thence
easterly, northerly and westerly along the boundaries of Lot 1776 to the
easterly boundary of Lot 2702; thence northerly along said boundary to and along
the easterly boundary of Lot 3251, and continuing northerly along the easterly
boundary of Lot 2702 to the southwesterly boundary of Lot 3550; thence
northwesterly and northeasterly along the westerly boundaries of Lots 3550 and
3306, respectively, to the intersection thereof with the easterly boundary of
Lot 2702; thence northerly along said boundary to the intersection thereof with
the southerly boundary of Lot 252; thence easterly and northerly along the
boundaries of said lot to the southwest corner of Lot 1098; thence easterly
along the southerly boundaries of Lots 1098 and 1067(S) to the southwest corner
of Lot 1053; thence easterly and northerly along the boundaries of Lots 1053,
1052, and 750(S), respectively, to the southwest corner of Lot 1222; thence
northerly along the westerly boundaries of Lots 1222 and 1439(S) and the
northerly prolongation thereof to the point due East of the summit of Pelly
Mountain; thence West to said summit; thence northerly along the westerly
boundary of the watershed of Granby River to the southerly boundary of
Lot 3005(S); thence easterly, northerly and westerly along the boundaries of
said lot to the intersection thereof with the aforesaid westerly boundary of the
watershed of Granby River — all the lots herein above mentioned with suffix
"(S)" being in Similkameen Division of Yale Land District and all other lots
hereinabove mentioned being in Similkameen (formerly Osoyoos) Division of Yale
Land District; thence northerly and easterly along the westerly and northerly
boundaries of the watershed of Granby River to the westerly boundary of the
watershed of Lower Arrow Lake; thence northerly along said boundary to the
southerly boundary of Lot 4252, Osoyoos Division of Yale Land District; thence
easterly along said boundary to the southeast corner thereof; thence due East to
the point due South of the southeast corner of Lot 2151, Osoyoos Division of
Yale Land District; thence North to said corner and continuing northerly along
the easterly boundary of said lot and the prolongation thereof to the westerly
boundary of the watershed of the Arrow Lakes; thence northerly along said
boundary to the northerly boundary of the watershed of Pingston Creek; thence
easterly and southerly along the northerly and easterly boundaries of the
watershed of said creek and the northerly and easterly boundaries of the
watershed of Bannock Creek to a point due West of the northeast corner of
Lot 8312, Kootenay Land District; thence East to said corner; thence southerly
along the westerly boundaries of Lots 8312 and 12898 to the high-water mark on
the shore of Shelter Bay; thence southeasterly in a straight line to the middle
line of Upper Arrow Lake; thence northerly along said middle line to a point due
West of the middle line of Galena Bay at the entrance thereto; thence East to
said middle line; thence northeasterly along the middle line of Galena Bay to a
point due West of the southwest corner of Lot 2110; thence East to said corner;
thence easterly along the southerly boundaries of Lots 2110 and 7819 to the
westerly boundary of Lot 7818; thence southerly and easterly along the westerly
and southerly boundaries of said lot to the southeast corner thereof; thence due
East to the southerly boundary of the watershed of Mackenzie Creek; thence
southerly and northeasterly along the westerly and southerly boundaries of the
watershed of Mackenzie Creek and the southerly boundary of the watershed of Hill
Creek to the westerly boundary of the watershed of Beaton Creek; thence
northerly along said boundary to the intersection thereof with the southerly
boundary of Lot 11332; thence easterly along the southerly boundaries of
Lots 11332, 505, 7960 and 7961 to the southeast corner of Lot 7961; thence
northerly and westerly along the boundaries of Lots 7961, 7958 and 504,
respectively, and the northerly boundary of Lot 503 to the northwest corner
thereof; thence due West to the easterly boundary of the watershed of Town Creek
— all the lots herein above mentioned beginning with Lot 8312 being in Kootenay
Land District; thence northerly along said boundary to and along the easterly
boundary of the watershed of Akolkolex River and the southerly and easterly
boundaries of the watershed of Albert Creek produced to the middle line of
Illecillewaet River; thence easterly along said middle line to the westerly
boundary of the watershed of Tangier River; thence northerly along said boundary
to and along the northerly boundary of the watershed of Woolsey Creek to the
northerly boundary of the watershed of La Forme Creek; thence westerly along
said boundary to the left bank of Columbia River; thence westerly across said
river to and along the height of land between 2 unnamed creeks to the northerly
boundary of the watershed of Jordan River; thence westerly along said boundary
to the easterly boundary of the watershed of Perry River; thence northerly along
the easterly and northerly boundaries of the watershed of said river to the
westerly boundary of the watershed of Columbia River; thence northerly along
said boundary and that of the watershed of Canoe River to the southerly boundary
of the watershed of Foster Creek; thence easterly along said boundary produced
to the middle line of Canoe River; thence up-stream in a northerly direction
along said middle line to the westerly production of the southerly boundary of
the watershed of Baker Creek; thence easterly to and along said boundary to the
easterly boundary of the Province; thence in a southeasterly direction along
said Provincial boundary to the southeast corner of the Province; thence
westerly along the southerly boundary of the Province to the point of
commencement.








County of Nanaimo





7



All that portion of British Columbia contained within the following boundaries
is to be known as the County of Nanaimo:




Commencing at the point of intersection of the 51st parallel of North
latitude with the westerly boundary of the Province; thence East along said
parallel to the northwesterly prolongation of the middle line of Gordon (New)
Channel; thence southeasterly to and along said middle line and the middle lines
of Queen Charlotte Strait, George Passage, Blackfish Sound, Blackney Passage,
and Johnstone Strait (passing to the South of Helmcken, Walkem and Turn Islands)
to the southwesterly prolongation of the middle line of Nodales Channel; thence
northeasterly to and along said middle line produced to the middle line of
Cordero Channel; thence southeasterly along said middle line (passing to the
South of Dent and Gillard Islands and of all islets adjacent thereto) and the
middle lines of Yucalta Rapids, Calm Channel and Lewis Channel to continue
southerly to and along the middle line of False Passage (passing to the West of
Kinghorn Island and to the East of the Powell Islands) to the middle line of the
Strait of Georgia; thence southeasterly along the middle line of the Strait of
Georgia to the point thereon due East of the northerly end of Hornby Island;
thence in a straight line to the northerly end of the middle line of Sabine
Channel; thence southeasterly along said middle line (passing to the East of
Jervis and Jedidiah Islands) and the extension thereof to the point due East of
the southerly end of Lasqueti Island; thence due South to the middle line of the
Strait of Georgia and southeasterly along said middle line to the first point of
contact with the southerly boundary of the Province; thence in a westerly
direction in the Strait of Georgia to and along the middle line of Porlier Pass
and passing thence to and around the westerly extremity of Reid Island to the
middle line of the main channel separating Thetis and Kuper Islands from Norway
and Secretary Islands; thence in a general southerly direction along said middle
line to continue southeasterly to and along the middle lines of Stuart Channel,
Sansum Narrows, and Satellite Channel to the northerly prolongation of the
middle line of Saanich Inlet; thence southerly to and along said middle line to
the point thereon which lies due East of the southeast corner of Fractional
Section 1, Range 9, Shawnigan Land District, being a point on high-water mark of
Mill Bay; thence West to said corner; thence westerly along the southerly
boundaries of Sections 1 in Ranges 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4 and 3, all of Shawnigan Land
District, to the point of junction of the southerly boundary of Section 1,
Range 3, with the easterly shore of Shawnigan Lake; thence westerly in a
straight line to the point of junction of the westerly shore of said lake with
the southerly boundary of Section 1, Range 2, Shawnigan Land District; thence
westerly along said boundary to the easterly boundary of Lot 106, Malahat Land
District; thence northerly, westerly and southerly along the boundaries of
Lot 106 to the southerly boundary of Section 1, Range 1, Shawnigan Land
District; thence westerly along said boundary and that of Lot 34, Helmcken Land
District, to the southwest corner of Lot 34; thence due West to the easterly
boundary of Lot 38, Helmcken Land District; thence southerly and westerly along
the boundaries of said lot to the southwest corner thereof; thence southerly and
westerly along the boundaries of Lot 17, Helmcken Land District, to the easterly
boundary of Lot 9, Helmcken Land District; thence southerly, westerly and
northerly along the boundaries of Lot 9 to the northwest corner thereof, being a
point on the easterly boundary of Lot 162, Malahat Land District; thence
northerly and westerly along the boundaries of Lot 162 to the northwest corner
thereof; thence due North to the line drawn due West from the southwest corner
of Lot 34, Helmcken Land District; thence due West to the easterly boundary of
Section 1, Helmcken Land District; thence southerly and westerly along the
boundaries of Section 1 to the southeasterly boundary of Lot 48G, Helmcken Land
District; thence southwesterly and northwesterly along the boundaries of Lot 48G
to the southerly boundary of Section 1, Helmcken Land District; thence westerly
and northerly along the boundaries of Section 1 to the point thereon which lies
due West of the southwest corner of Lot 34, Helmcken Land District; thence due
West to the most westerly boundary of the Esquimalt and Nanaimo Railway
Company's Land Grant; thence northwesterly along said boundary to the middle
line of the Nitinat River; thence southwesterly following said middle line and
the middle lines of Nitinat Lake and the outlet of said lake produced to the
westerly boundary of the Province; thence northwesterly along said boundary to
the point of commencement.








County of Prince Rupert





8



All that portion of British Columbia contained within the following boundaries
is to be known as the County of Prince Rupert:




Commencing at the northwesterly corner of the Province; thence easterly
along the northerly boundary of the Province to the 126th meridian of West
longitude; thence South along said meridian to the northerly boundary of the
watershed of the Peace River; thence westerly, southerly, and southeasterly
along the boundary of the watershed of the Peace River to the point thereon
which lies due North of mile-post 34 as set on the 55th parallel of North
latitude as established by survey upon the ground; thence South to said
mile-post; thence westerly along said surveyed parallel to the 125th meridian of
West longitude; thence South along said meridian to the northerly boundary of
Indian Reserve No. 2 (Soyandostar); thence easterly and southerly along the
boundaries of said Indian reserve to the southeast corner thereof, being a point
on the northerly shore of Trembleur Lake; thence easterly, southerly, and
westerly following the shore of said lake to the 125th meridian; thence South
along said meridian to the northerly boundary of Lot 3654, Range 5, Coast Land
District; thence westerly and southerly along the boundaries of Lot 3654 to the
more northerly southwest corner thereof; thence due South to meet the line drawn
due West from the more southerly southwest corner of Lot 3654; thence East to
the 125th meridian; thence South along said meridian to the northerly boundary
of Lot 2842; thence easterly and southerly along the boundaries of Lot 2842 to
the southeast corner thereof, being a point on the northerly shore of Stuart
Lake; thence westerly along said shore to the 125th meridian; thence South along
said meridian to the northerly boundary of Lot 4953; thence easterly along said
boundary to the northeast corner of Lot 4953; thence southerly along the
easterly boundaries of Lots 4953 and 4952 to the southeast corner of Lot 4952,
being a point on the northerly shore of Whitefish Lake; thence westerly,
southerly and easterly along the shore of said lake to the 125th meridian;
thence South along said meridian to the northerly boundary of Lot 4951; thence
easterly and southerly along the boundaries of Lot 4951 to the northerly
boundary of Lot 5034; thence westerly, southerly and easterly along the
boundaries of Lot 5034 to the 125th meridian; thence South along said meridian
to the northerly boundary of Lot 3257; thence easterly along said boundary of
Lot 3257 to the northeast corner thereof; thence southerly along the easterly
boundaries of Lots 3257, 3254, 3832, 6399 and 5989 to the southeast corner of
Lot 5989; thence westerly along the southerly boundary of Lot 5989 to the
southwest corner thereof; thence southerly along the westerly boundaries of Lots
5998 and 2495 to the southwest corner of Lot 2495; thence easterly along the
southerly boundary of Lot 2495 to the 125th meridian; thence South along said
meridian to the northerly boundary of Lot 2570; thence easterly and southerly
along the boundaries of Lot 2570 to the southeast corner thereof; thence
westerly and southerly along the boundaries of Lot 2571 to the southwesterly
corner thereof, being a point on the northerly bank of the Stellako River;
thence in a straight line to the northeast corner of Lot 2563; thence southerly
following the easterly boundary of Lot 2563 to the southeast corner thereof,
being a point on the northerly shore of Francois Lake — the lots herein above
mentioned, beginning with Lot 3654, being in Range 5, Coast Land District;
thence easterly, southerly and westerly along the shore of said lake to the
northwesterly corner of Lot 1677, Range 4, Coast Land District; thence southerly
and easterly along the boundaries of Lot 1677 to the 125th meridian; thence
South along said meridian to the 53rd parallel of North latitude as established
by survey upon the ground; thence westerly along said survey parallel to
mile-post 93 as set thereon; thence due West to the Cascade Mountains, as
defined by the


Interpretation Act


; thence					southeasterly along the Cascade Mountains to the point thereon which lies due
North of the northeast corner of Lot 459, Range 3, Coast Land District; thence
South to said corner; thence southerly following the easterly boundary of said
lot and the westerly boundaries of Lots 575 and 576 to the southwest corner of
Lot 576; thence due West to the westerly boundary of the watershed of the
Klinaklini River; thence in a general southwesterly direction along said
boundary to the southerly boundary of the watershed of Machmell River; thence
westerly along said southerly boundary to the westerly boundary of the watershed
of Seymour River; thence southerly along said westerly boundary to the southerly
boundary of the watershed of the streams flowing northerly into Long Lake,
Wyclees Lagoon and Takush River; thence in a general westerly direction along
said boundary to the point thereon which is nearest to the northeast corner of
Lot 241, Range 2, Coast Land District; thence in a straight line to said corner;
thence following the northerly and westerly boundaries of Lot 241 and the
easterly and southerly boundaries of Lot 239, Range 2, Coast Land District, to
the southwest corner of Lot 239; thence westerly following the shore of Queen
Charlotte Strait to Cape Caution; thence southwesterly in a straight line in
Queen Charlotte Strait to the point of intersection of the northwesterly
prolongation of the middle line of Gordon (New) Channel with the 51st parallel
of North latitude; thence West along said parallel to the westerly boundary of
the Province; thence in a general northwesterly direction along said westerly
boundary to the point of commencement.








County of Vancouver





9



All that portion of British Columbia contained within the following boundaries
is to be known as the County of Vancouver:




Commencing at the most northerly point of contact of the middle line of
the Strait of Georgia with the southerly boundary of the Province; thence
northeasterly in a straight line in the Strait of Georgia to the westerly
extremity of the middle line of the main stream of the Fraser River; thence in
an easterly direction along said middle line (passing to the South of Duck,
Barber and Kirkland Islands, to the North of Lot 471, Group 2, New Westminster
Land District, to the North of Deas Island, and to the South of Lots 516 and
517, both of Group 1 of said land district) to and along the middle line of
Annacis Channel (passing to the North of Patrick Island) to the southerly
prolongation of the westerly boundary of Lot 758, Group 1, New Westminster Land
District; thence northerly to and along said westerly boundary produced to the
middle line of the North Arm of the Fraser River; thence westerly along said
middle line to the southerly prolongation of the easterly boundary of Lot 331;
thence northerly along said prolongation to and along said easterly boundary and
the easterly boundaries of Lots 335, 339, 49, 36 and of the Hastings Townsite
produced to the middle line of Burrard Inlet; thence easterly along said middle
line to the southerly prolongation of the middle line of Indian Arm; thence
northerly to and along said middle line and that of Indian River (passing to the
East of Lot 177 and Croker Island and to the West of Boulder and Racoon Islands)
to that point on said middle line of Indian River which lies due East of the
southeast corner of Lot 2029 — all the lots herein above mentioned being in
Group 1, New Westminster Land District; thence due East to the easterly boundary
of the watershed of the Indian River; thence northerly along said boundary and
the easterly boundaries of the watersheds of the Mamquam, Cheakamus, and Green
Rivers to the point thereon which lies due East of the post set by survey upon
the parallel of North latitude of 50º14' about 8 chains West of the Soo River;
thence West to said survey-post; thence on a bearing of N45ºW to the northerly
boundary of the watershed of Soo River; thence westerly along said boundary to
the easterly boundary of the watershed of the streams flowing westerly and
southerly into Howe Sound and into Jervis and Toba Inlets; thence northwesterly
following said boundary to the Cascade Mountains, as defined by the


Interpretation Act


; thence northwesterly					along the Cascade Mountains to the point thereon which lies due North of the
northeast corner of Lot 459, Range 3, Coast Land District; thence South to said
corner; thence southerly following the easterly boundary of said lot and the
westerly boundaries of Lots 575 and 576 to the southwest corner of Lot 576;
thence due West to the westerly boundary of the watershed of the Klinaklini
River; thence in a general southwesterly direction along said boundary to the
southerly boundary of the watershed of Machmell River; thence westerly along
said southerly boundary to the westerly boundary of the watershed of Seymour
River; thence southerly along said westerly boundary to the southerly boundary
of the watershed of the streams flowing northerly into Long Lake, Wyclees Lagoon
and Takush River; thence in a general westerly direction along said boundary to
the point thereon which is nearest to the northeast corner of Lot 241, Range 2,
Coast Land District; thence in a straight line to said corner; thence following
the northerly and westerly boundaries of Lot 241 and the easterly and southerly
boundaries of Lot 239, Range 2, Coast Land District, to the southwest corner of
Lot 239; thence westerly following the shore of Queen Charlotte Strait to Cape
Caution; thence southwesterly in a straight line in Queen Charlotte Strait to
the point of intersection of the northwesterly prolongation of the middle line
of Gordon (New) Channel with the 51st parallel of North latitude; thence
southeasterly to and along said middle line and the middle line of Queen
Charlotte Strait, George Passage, Blackfish Sound, Blackney Passage and
Johnstone Strait (passing to the South of Helmcken, Walkem and Turn Islands) to
the southwesterly prolongation of the middle line of Nodales Channel; thence
northeasterly to and along said middle line produced to the middle line of
Cordero Channel; thence southeasterly along said middle line (passing to the
South of Dent and Gillard Islands and of all islets adjacent thereto) and the
middle lines of Yucalta Rapids, Calm Channel and Lewis Channel to continue
southerly to and along the middle line of False Passage (passing to the West of
Kinghorn Island and to the East of the Powell Islands) to the middle line of the
Strait of Georgia; thence southeasterly along the middle line of the Strait of
Georgia to the point thereon due East of the northerly end of Hornby Island;
thence in a straight line to the northerly end of the middle line of Sabine
Channel; thence southeasterly along said middle line (passing to the East of
Jervis and Jedidiah Islands) and the extension thereof to the point due East of
the southerly end of Lasqueti Island; thence due South to the middle line of the
Strait of Georgia and southeasterly along said middle line to the point of
commencement.








County of Victoria





10



All that portion of British Columbia contained within the following boundaries
is to be known as the County of Victoria:




Commencing at the southeast corner of Fractional Section 1, Range 9,
Shawnigan Land District, being a point on the high-water mark of Mill Bay,
Saanich Inlet; thence westerly following the southerly boundaries of Section 1
in Ranges 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4 and 3, all of Shawnigan Land District, to the point
of junction of the southerly boundary of Section 1, Range 3, with the easterly
shore of Shawnigan Lake; thence westerly in straight line to the point of
junction of the westerly shore of said lake with the southerly boundary of
Section 1, Range 2, Shawnigan Land District; thence westerly along said boundary
to the easterly boundary of Lot 106, Malahat Land District; thence northerly,
westerly and southerly along the boundaries of Lot 106 to the southerly boundary
of Section 1, Range 1, Shawnigan Land District; thence westerly along said
southerly boundary and that of Lot 34, Helmcken Land District, to the southwest
corner of Lot 34; thence due West to the easterly boundary of Lot 38, Helmcken
Land District; thence southerly and westerly along the boundaries of said lot to
the southwest corner thereof; thence southerly and westerly along the boundaries
of Lot 17, Helmcken Land District, to the easterly boundary of Lot 9, Helmcken
Land District; thence southerly, westerly and northerly along the boundaries of
Lot 9 to the northwest corner thereof, being a point on the easterly boundary of
Lot 162, Malahat Land District; thence northerly and westerly along the
boundaries of Lot 162 to the northwest corner thereof; thence due North to the
line drawn due West from the southwest corner of Lot 34, Helmcken Land District;
thence due West to the easterly boundary of Section 1, Helmcken Land District;
thence southerly and westerly along the boundaries of Section 1 to the
southeasterly boundary of Lot 48G, Helmcken Land District; thence southwesterly
and northwesterly along the boundaries of Lot 48G to the southerly boundary of
Section 1, Helmcken Land District; thence westerly and northerly along the
boundaries of Section 1 to the point thereon which lies due West of the
southwest corner of Lot 34, Helmcken Land District; thence due West to the most
westerly boundary of the Esquimalt and Nanaimo Railway Company's Land Grant;
thence northwesterly following said boundary to the middle line of the Nitinat
River; thence southwesterly following said middle line and the middle lines of
Nitinat Lake and the outlet of said lake produced to the westerly boundary of
the Province; thence southeasterly and northerly along the boundary of the
Province to the most northerly point of said boundary on the middle line of the
Strait of Georgia; thence westerly in the Strait of Georgia to and along the
middle line of Porlier Pass and passing thence to and around the westerly
extremity of Reid Island to the middle line of the main channel separating
Thetis and Kuper Islands from Norway and Secretary Islands; thence in a general
southerly direction along said middle line to continue southeasterly to and
along the middle lines of Stuart Channel, Sansum Narrows, and Satellite Channel
to the northerly prolongation of the middle line of Saanich Inlet; thence
southerly to and along said middle line to the point thereon which lies due East
of the point of commencement; thence West to the point of
commencement.








County of Westminster





11



All that portion of British Columbia contained within the following boundaries
is to be known as the County of Westminster:




Commencing at the most northerly point of contact of the middle line of
the Strait of Georgia with the southerly boundary of the Province; thence
northeasterly in a straight line in the Strait of Georgia to the westerly
extremity of the middle line of the main stream of the Fraser River; thence
easterly along said middle line (passing to the South of Duck, Barber and
Kirkland Islands, to the North of Lot 471, Group 2, New Westminster Land
District, to the North of Deas Island, and to the South of Lots 516 and 517,
both of Group 1 of said land district) to and along the middle line of Annacis
Channel (passing to the North of Patrick Island) to the southerly prolongation
of the westerly boundary of Lot 758, Group 1, New Westminster Land District;
thence northerly to and along said westerly boundary produced to the middle line
of the North Arm of the Fraser River; thence westerly along said middle line to
the southerly prolongation of the easterly boundary of Lot 331; thence northerly
along said prolongation to and along said easterly boundary and the easterly
boundaries of Lots 335, 339, 49, 36 and of the Hastings Townsite produced to the
middle line of Burrard Inlet; thence easterly along said middle line to the
southerly prolongation of the middle line of Indian Arm; thence northerly to and
along said middle line and that of Indian River (passing to the East of Lot 177
and Croker Island and to the West of Boulder and Racoon Islands) to that point
on said middle line of Indian River which lies due East of the southeast corner
of Lot 2029 — all the lots herein above mentioned being in Group 1, New
Westminster Land District; thence due East to the easterly boundary of the
watershed of the Indian River; thence northerly along said boundary and the
easterly boundaries of the watersheds of the Mamquam, Cheakamus and Green Rivers
to the northerly boundary of the watershed of Billygoat Creek; thence
southeasterly following said boundary to the point thereon which lies due West
of the northwest corner of Lot 5536, Group 1, New Westminster Land District;
thence East to said corner; thence easterly along the northerly boundary of
Lot 5536 to the northeast corner thereof; thence due East to the Cascade
Mountains, as defined by the


Interpretation Act


; thence southerly along					the Cascade Mountains to the northerly boundary of the watershed of Nahatlatch
(Salmon) River; thence easterly along said boundary to the northerly boundary of
Township 12, Range 27, West of the 6th meridian; thence easterly along the
northerly boundaries of Township 12 in Ranges 27, 26 and 25 West of the 6th
meridian to the westerly boundary of the watershed of the Nicola River; thence
southerly along said boundary and along the westerly boundaries of the
watersheds of the Coldwater and Similkameen Rivers to the northerly boundary of
Township 5, Range 23, West of the 6th meridian; thence westerly, southerly and
easterly following the boundaries of said Township 5 to the westerly boundary of
the watershed of the Similkameen River; thence southerly along said boundary to
the southerly boundary of the Province; thence westerly along said boundary to
the point of commencement.








County of Yale





12



All that portion of British Columbia contained within the following boundaries
is to be known as the County of Yale:




Commencing at the point of intersection of the southerly boundary of the
Province with the westerly boundary of the watershed of July Creek; thence
northerly along said boundary to the intersection thereof with the southerly
boundary of Lot 1580(S), Similkameen Division of Yale Land District; thence
easterly, northerly and westerly along the boundaries of said lot to the
northeast corner of Lot 1579(S); thence westerly along the northerly boundary of
Lot 1579(S) to the southeast corner of Lot 2376(S); thence northerly along the
easterly boundaries of Lots 2376(S), 2374(S), 2500(S), 2499(S) and 515(S) to the
southerly boundary of Lot 1695; thence easterly, northerly and westerly along
the boundaries of Lot 1695 to the easterly boundary of Lot 2702; thence
northerly along said boundary to the southerly boundary of Lot 1776; thence
easterly, northerly and westerly along the boundaries of Lot 1776 to the
easterly boundary of Lot 2702; thence northerly along the said boundary to and
along the easterly boundary of Lot 3251, and continuing northerly along the
easterly boundary of Lot 2702 to the southwesterly boundary of Lot 3550; thence
northwesterly and northeasterly along the westerly boundaries of Lots 3550 and
3306, respectively, to the intersection thereof with the easterly boundary of
Lot 2702; thence northerly along said boundary to the intersection thereof with
the southerly boundary of Lot 252; thence easterly and northerly along the
boundaries of said lot to the southwest corner of Lot 1098; thence easterly
along the southerly boundaries of Lots 1098 and 1067(S) to the southwest corner
of Lot 1053; thence easterly and northerly along the boundaries of Lots 1053,
1052 and 750(S), respectively, to the southwest corner of Lot 1222; thence
northerly along the westerly boundaries of Lots 1222 and 1439(S) and the
northerly prolongation thereof to the point due East of the summit of Pelly
Mountain; thence West to said summit; thence northerly along the westerly
boundary of the watershed of Granby River to the southerly boundary of
Lot 3005(S); thence easterly, northerly and westerly along the boundaries of
said lot to the intersection thereof with the aforesaid westerly boundary of the
watershed of Granby River — all the lots herein above mentioned with suffix
"(S)" being in Similkameen Division of Yale Land District and all other lots
herein above mentioned being in Similkameen (formerly Osoyoos) Division of Yale
Land District; thence northerly and easterly along the westerly and northerly
boundaries of the watershed of Granby River to the westerly boundary of the
watershed of Lower Arrow Lake; thence northerly along said boundary to the
southerly boundary of Lot 4252, Osoyoos Division of Yale Land District; thence
easterly along said boundary to the southeast corner thereof; thence due East to
the point due South of the southeast corner of Lot 2151, Osoyoos Division of
Yale Land District; thence North to said corner and continuing northerly along
the easterly boundary of said lot and the prolongation thereof to the westerly
boundary of the watershed of the Arrow Lakes; thence northerly along said
boundary to the northerly boundary of the watershed of Pingston Creek; thence
easterly and southerly along the northerly and easterly boundaries of the
watershed of said creek and the northerly and easterly boundaries of the
watershed of Bannock Creek to a point due West of the northeast corner of
Lot 8312, Kootenay Land District; thence East to said corner; thence southerly
along the westerly boundaries of Lots 8312 and 12898 to the high-water mark on
the shore of Shelter Bay; thence southeasterly in a straight line to the middle
line of Upper Arrow Lake; thence northerly along said middle line to a point due
West of the middle line of Galena Bay at the entrance thereto; thence East to
said middle line; thence northeasterly along the middle line of Galena Bay to a
point due West of the southwest corner of Lot 2110; thence East to said corner;
thence easterly along the southerly boundaries of Lots 2110 and 7819 to the
westerly boundary of Lot 7818; thence southerly and easterly along the westerly
and southerly boundaries of said lot to the southeast corner thereof; thence due
East to the southerly boundary of the watershed of Mackenzie Creek; thence
southerly and northeasterly along the westerly and southerly boundaries of the
watershed of Mackenzie Creek and the southerly boundary of the watershed of Hill
Creek to the westerly boundary of the watershed of Beaton Creek; thence
northerly along said boundary to the intersection thereof with the southerly
boundary of Lot 11332; thence easterly along the southerly boundaries of Lots
11332, 505, 7960 and 7961 to the southeast corner of Lot 7961; thence northerly
and westerly along the boundaries of Lots 7961, 7959 and 504, respectively, and
the northerly boundary of Lot 503 to the northwest corner thereof; thence due
West to the easterly boundary of the watershed of Town Creek — all the lots
herein above mentioned beginning with Lot 8312 being in Kootenay Land District;
thence northerly along said boundary to and along the easterly boundary of the
watershed of Akolkolex River and the southerly and easterly boundaries of the
watershed of Albert Creek produced to the middle line of Illecillewaet River;
thence easterly along said middle line to the westerly boundary of the watershed
of Tangier River; thence northerly along said boundary to and along the
northerly boundary of the watershed of Woolsey Creek to the northerly boundary
of the watershed of La Forme Creek; thence westerly along said boundary to the
left bank of Columbia River; thence westerly across said river to and along the
height of land between 2 unnamed creeks to the northerly boundary of the
watershed of Jordan River; thence westerly along said boundary to the easterly
boundary of the watershed of Perry River; thence northerly along the easterly
and northerly boundaries of the watershed of said river to the westerly boundary
of the watershed of Columbia River; thence northerly along said boundary and
that of the watershed of the Canoe River to the point thereon which lies due
East of the northeast corner of Lot 3103, Kamloops Land District; thence West to
said corner; thence westerly along the northerly boundary of said lot and the
southerly boundary of Lot 7383, Cariboo Land District, to the southwest corner
thereof; thence due West to and thence northwesterly along the northerly
boundary of the watershed of the North Thompson River and that of the Clearwater
River to the westerly boundary of the watershed of the streams flowing into
Clearwater River North of the mouth of Mahood River; thence southerly along said
boundary to the point thereon which lies due East of the post set at the
northeast corner of the Lillooet Land District, being a point on the 52nd
parallel of North latitude as established by survey upon the ground, 46.75
chains, more or less, easterly from mile-post 60, set on said parallel; thence
southerly along the easterly boundary of said land district a distance of 65
miles and 50.58 chains, more or less, to the post set at a distance of 4.56
chains, more or less, measured easterly from the northeast corner of Section 10,
Township 24, Range 19, West of the 6th meridian; thence westerly to said corner;
thence southerly, easterly and southerly following the easterly boundary of
Section 10, the northerly boundaries of Sections 2 and 1,
and the easterly boundary of Section 1, respectively, to the southeast corner of
said Township 24; thence easterly along the northerly boundary of Township 23,
Range 18, West of the 6th meridian, to the easterly boundary of the watershed of
Criss Creek; thence in a general southwesterly direction along said boundary to
the North boundary of Township 22, Range 20, West of the 6th meridian; thence
westerly along said boundary to the northeast corner of Section 31 thereof;
thence southerly following the easterly boundaries of Sections 31, 30, 19 and 18
of said township to the southeast corner of Section 18; thence westerly
following the southerly boundaries of Section 18 and of Sections 13, 14, 15, 16,
17 and 18 of Township 22, Range 21, West of the 6th meridian, to the southwest
corner of Section 18; thence southerly along the West boundary of Township 22
and that of Township 21, Range 21, to the easterly boundary of the Deadman Creek
Indian Reserve; thence southeasterly following said boundary and that of
Lot 2457, Kamloops Land District, to the southeasterly corner of said lot, being
a point on the northerly bank of the Thompson River; thence westerly along said
riverbank to the easterly boundary of Township 20, Range 22, West of the 6th
meridian; thence southerly following said boundary and that of Township 19,
Range 22, to the westerly boundary of the watershed of Guichon (Mamit) Creek;
thence westerly and southerly along said boundary to the southerly boundary of
Township 15, Range 22; thence westerly along said southerly boundary and that of
Township 15, Range 23, West of the 6th meridian, to the easterly boundary of
Indian Reserve No. 10 (Nooaitch); thence northerly, westerly and southerly along
the boundaries of said Indian reserve to the North boundary of Township 14,
Range 23, West of the 6th meridian; thence westerly and southerly along said
boundaries of said township to the northwesterly boundary of the watershed of
Nuaitch Creek; thence southwesterly along said boundary and that of the
northwesterly boundary of the watershed of Prospect Creek to the westerly
boundary of the watershed of the Nicola River; thence southerly along said
boundary and along the westerly boundaries of the watersheds of the Coldwater
and Similkameen Rivers to the northerly boundary of Township 5, Range 23, West
of the 6th meridian; thence westerly, southerly and easterly following the
boundaries of Township 5 to the westerly boundary of the watershed of the
Similkameen River; thence southerly along said boundary to the southerly
boundary of the Province; thence easterly along said boundary to the point of
commencement.




