




Crown Proceeding Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 89






Definitions




1


In this Act:


"agent"
, when used in relation to the government, includes an independent
contractor employed by the government;


"Crown"
means Her Majesty the Queen in right of British Columbia;



"officer of the government"

includes a minister of the government and an employee of the
government;


"order"
includes a judgment, decree, rule, award and declaration;


"person"
does not include the government;



"proceeding against the government"

includes a claim by way of set off or counterclaim raised in
proceedings by the government, an interpleader proceeding to which the
government is a party, and a proceeding in which the government is a
garnishee.






Liability of government




2


Subject to this Act,




(a)

proceeding against the government by way of petition of right is
abolished,




(b)

a claim against the government that, if this Act had not been passed,
might be enforced by petition of right, subject to the grant of a fiat
by the Lieutenant Governor, may be enforced as of right by proceeding
against the government in accordance with this Act, without the grant
of a fiat by the Lieutenant Governor,




(c)

the government is subject to all the liabilities to which it would be
liable if it were a person, and




(d)

the law relating to indemnity and contribution is enforceable by and
against the government for any liability to which it is subject, as if
the government were a person.






Limitations on proceedings and liabilities




3

(1)


This Act is subject to the

Workers Compensation Act

and does not apply to any of the following:




(a)

proceedings under




(i)

the

Income Tax Act

,




(ii)

the

Corporation Capital Tax Act

, or




(iii)

the

Logging Tax Act

;




(b)

assurance fund proceedings under land title legislation;




(c)

proceedings to which the

Federal Courts Jurisdiction Act

applies.




(2)

Nothing in section 2 does any of the following:




(a)

authorizes proceedings against the government for anything done or
omitted to be done by a person acting in good faith while discharging
or purporting to discharge responsibilities




(i)

of a judicial nature vested in the person, or




(ii)

that the person has in connection with the execution of judicial
process;




(b)

subjects the government to greater liability for the acts or omissions
of an independent contractor employed by the government than that to
which the government would be subject for those acts or omissions if
it were a person;




(c)

affects the right of the government to intervene in proceedings
affecting its rights, property or profits;




(d)

authorizes proceedings against the government for a cause of action
that is enforceable against a corporation or other agency owned or
controlled by the government;




(e)

authorizes proceedings against the government for anything done in the
proper enforcement of the criminal law or the penal provisions of an
Act;




(f)

subjects the government, in its capacity as a highway authority, to
any greater liability than that to which a municipal corporation is
subject in that capacity.






Institution of claims in the Supreme Court




4

(1)


Subject to this Act, all proceedings against the government in the
Supreme Court must be instituted and proceeded with under the

Supreme Court Act

and, if applicable, under the

Class Proceedings Act

.




(2)

In proceedings against the government, the trial must be without a
jury.






Institution of claims in the Provincial Court




5

(1)


Without limiting section 4 but subject to subsections (3) and (4) of
this section, proceedings may be brought against the government in the
Provincial Court.




(2)

Subject to this Act, all proceedings against the government in the
Provincial Court must be instituted and proceeded with under the

Small Claims Act

.




(3)

Nothing in this Act extends the jurisdiction of the Provincial Court
beyond the jurisdiction available to it under section 3 of the

Small Claims Act

.




(4)

In a proceeding against the government under the

Small Claims Act

, the Provincial Court does not have jurisdiction over




(a)

a matter for which notice under section 8 of the

Constitutional Question Act

is required, or




(b)

a matter involving the

Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms

.






Institution of claims in the Civil Resolution Tribunal




5.1

(1)


In this section,
"civil resolution tribunal"
means the Civil Resolution Tribunal established under the

Civil Resolution Tribunal Act

.




(2)

Without limiting section 4, but subject to subsections (4) and (5) of
this section and to section 9
[government as party]
of the

Civil Resolution Tribunal Act

, claims may be resolved or adjudicated against the government in the
civil resolution tribunal.




(3)

Subject to this Act, all proceedings against the government in the
civil resolution tribunal must be instituted and proceeded with under
the

Civil Resolution Tribunal Act

.




(4)

Nothing in this Act extends the jurisdiction of the civil resolution
tribunal beyond the jurisdiction available to it under the

Civil Resolution Tribunal Act

.




(5)

In a proceeding against the government under the

Civil Resolution Tribunal Act

, the civil resolution tribunal does not have jurisdiction over




(a)

a matter for which notice under section 8 of the

Constitutional Question Act

is required, or




(b)

a matter involving the

Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms

.






Appeals and stays of proceedings




6


Subject to this Act, all enactments and rules of court for appeals and
stays of proceedings apply to proceedings against the government and
proceedings in which the government is a party.






Designation of government




7


In proceedings under this Act, the government must be designated "Her
Majesty the Queen in right of the Province of British Columbia".






Service on government




8


A document to be served on the government




(a)

must be served on the Attorney General at the Ministry of Attorney
General in the City of Victoria, and




(b)

is sufficiently served if




(i)

left there during office hours with a solicitor on the staff of the
Attorney General at Victoria, or




(ii)

mailed by registered mail to the Deputy Attorney General at Victoria.






Discovery and inspection of documents




9

(1)


In proceedings against the government and proceedings in which the
government is a party, if there are, in the rules of the court in
which the proceedings are brought, rules relating to one or more of
discovery and inspection of documents, examinations for discovery and
interrogatories, those rules apply as if the government were a
corporation.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not affect a rule of law that authorizes or
requires the withholding of a document, or the refusal to answer a
question, on the ground that the disclosure of the document or the
answering of the question would be injurious to the public interest.




(3)

If the government claims that the disclosure of the document or the
answering of the question would be injurious to the public interest,
the court may, after holding an inquiry it considers necessary and
reasonable, and on finding that the public interest in the
administration of justice should prevail over the public interest in
withholding the document or answering the question, order, subject to
conditions or restrictions it considers appropriate, production and
discovery of the document or that the question be answered.






Interpleader




10

(1)


Even if an application for relief is made by a sheriff or bailiff or
other similar officer, the government may




(a)

obtain relief by way of interpleader proceedings in the same manner as
a person may obtain relief by way of those proceedings, and




(b)

be made a party to the proceedings in the same manner as a person may
be made a party to them.




(2)

Subject to this Act, the interpleader provisions in the Supreme Court
Civil Rules apply to the proceedings.






Rights of parties and authority of the court




11

(1)


In proceedings against the government and proceedings in which the
government is a party, the rights of the parties must, subject to this
Act, be as nearly as possible the same as in a proceeding between
persons, and the court may




(a)

make an order, including an order as to costs, that it may make in
proceedings between persons, and




(b)

otherwise give the appropriate relief that the case may require.




(2)

If, in proceedings against the government, relief is sought that
might, in proceedings between persons, be granted by way of injunction
or specific performance, the court




(a)

must not grant an injunction or make an order for specific performance
against the government, and




(b)

may make an order declaring the rights of the parties instead of an
injunction or an order for specific performance.




(3)

A person must not make use




(a)

of a set off or counterclaim in proceedings by the government for the
recovery of taxes, duties or penalties, or




(b)

in proceedings of any nature by the government, of a set off or
counterclaim arising out of a right or claim to repayment for taxes,
duties or penalties.




(4)

In a proceeding, the court




(a)

must not grant an injunction or make an order against an officer of
the government if the effect of granting the injunction or making the
order would be to give relief against the government that could not
have been obtained in proceedings against the government, and




(b)

may make an order declaring the rights of the parties instead of
granting the injunction or making the order.




(5)

Without leave of the court, a person must not make use of a set off or
counterclaim in proceedings by the government, unless the subject
matter of the set off or counterclaim relates to a matter under the
administration of the particular government ministry for which the
proceedings are brought by the government.




(6)

In proceedings against the government in which the recovery of land or
other property is claimed, the court




(a)

must not make an order for the recovery of the land or the delivery of
the property, and




(b)

may, instead, make an order declaring that the claimant is entitled,
as against the government, to land or property or to possession of it.






Interest on judgments




12


A judgment debt due to or from the government bears interest in the
same way as a judgment debt due from one person to another.






Certificate of judgment




13

(1)


Subject to this Act, if in proceedings against the government and
proceedings in which the government is a party, an order for costs or
other order is made by a court against the government, the proper
officer of the court must, on application, issue a certificate.




(2)

If the court directs, a separate certificate must be issued for the
costs, if any, ordered to be paid to the applicant.




(3)

A certificate issued under this section may be served on the person
named in the record as the solicitor, or as the person acting as
solicitor, for the government.




(4)

If the order provides for the payment of money by way of damages or
otherwise, or of costs, the certificate must state the amount payable,
and the Minister of Finance must, subject to this Act, pay out of the
consolidated revenue fund to the person entitled, or to the person's
order, the amount appearing by the certificate to be due, together
with the interest, if any, lawfully due.




(5)

The court which makes an order or a court to which an appeal against
the order lies may direct that, pending an appeal or otherwise,
payment of the whole of the amount payable, or any part is suspended
and, if the certificate has not been issued, may order the direction
to be inserted in it.




(6)

An execution or attachment or process of that nature must not be
issued out of a court for enforcing payment by the government of money
or costs.






Certificate of settlement




14

(1)


If a claim is made against the government and the Attorney General
certifies, either before or after proceedings authorized by this Act
have been commenced, that




(a)

the Attorney General considers that the claim, if pursued, could
result in an order referred to in section 13 (4) for the payment of
money by the government, and




(b)

it is in the public interest to settle the claim in an amount set out
in the certificate,


the Minister of Finance must pay that amount to the person making the
claim.




(2)

If a proceeding authorized by this Act has been commenced and the
Attorney General certifies that it is in the public interest to make
payment into court, the Minister of Finance must pay into court the
amount set out in the certificate.




(3)

[Repealed 1998-42-4.]




(4)

Money paid by the Minister of Finance under this section must be paid
out of the consolidated revenue fund.






Report to Legislative Assembly




15


The Attorney General must prepare in each fiscal year a report
respecting the money paid out in the preceding fiscal year under
sections 13 (4) and 14 (4) and lay the report before the Legislative
Assembly as soon as practicable.






Rights of government to rely on statutes




16

(1)


This Act does not prejudice the right of the government to take
advantage of an Act.




(2)

In proceedings against the government, an Act that could, if the
proceedings were between persons, be relied on by the defendant as a
defence to the proceedings, whether in whole or in part, or otherwise,
may, subject to an express provision to the contrary, be relied on by
the government.




