




Employer Health Tax Act
[SBC 2018] CHAPTER 42


Assented to November 8, 2018




Part 1 — Interpretation and Special Rules





Definitions




1


In this Act:


"assessment"
, in relation to an assessment under this Act, includes a
reassessment;



"BC remuneration"

, in relation to an employer, means the total of the following:




(a)

all remuneration paid by the employer to or on behalf of the
employer's employees, other than former employees, who




(i)

subject to section 3 (1) and (2), report for work at a permanent
establishment of the employer in British Columbia, or




(ii)

do not report for work at a permanent establishment of the employer,
whether or not in British Columbia, if the remuneration is paid from
or through a permanent establishment of the employer in British
Columbia;




(b)

all remuneration paid by the employer to or on behalf of any of the
employer's former employees who, when the former employee was last
employed by the employer,




(i)

subject to section 3 (3), reported for work at a permanent
establishment of the employer in British Columbia, or




(ii)

did not report for work at a permanent establishment of the employer,
whether or not in British Columbia, if remuneration was paid to the
former employee from or through a permanent establishment of the
employer in British Columbia;



"charitable or non-profit employer"

means an employer that is




(a)

a registered charity as defined in section 248 (1) of the

Income Tax Act

(Canada), or




(b)

a non-profit organization,

but does not include



(c)

an organization within the government reporting entity as defined in
the

Budget Transparency and Accountability Act

, or




(d)

an organization in a prescribed class of organizations;



"commissioner"

means




(a)

subject to paragraph (b), the Commissioner of Income Tax appointed
under the

Income Tax Act

, or




(b)

another person designated under section 88
[designation of commissioner]
of this Act by the minister to administer this Act;


"employee"
means the following:




(a)

an individual employed by an employer;




(b)

an individual appointed to an office with an employer who receives
remuneration in respect of the performance of the duties of the
office;




(c)

a former employee;


"employer"
means the following:




(a)

a person who pays remuneration to an employee;




(b)

a trustee in bankruptcy, assignee, liquidator, receiver, administrator
or other person administering, managing, winding up, controlling or
otherwise dealing with property or business of a person referred to in
paragraph (a);



"former employee"

means an individual who was formerly an employee within the meaning of
paragraph (a) or (b) of the definition of "employee";



"non-profit organization"

means an organization described in section 149 (1) (e), (g), (i), (j),
(k) or (l) of the

Income Tax Act

(Canada);



"permanent establishment"

means any fixed place of business, including, without limitation, an
agency, a branch, a factory, a farm, a gas well, a mine, an office, an
oil well, timberland, a warehouse or a workshop;


"person"
includes the following:




(a)

a trust;




(b)

an unincorporated association;




(c)

the government of British Columbia, another province or Canada;




(d)

the government of another jurisdiction in Canada;



"remuneration"

includes all payments, benefits and allowances received or deemed to
be received by an individual that are required under section 5, 6 or 7
of the

Income Tax Act

(Canada), or would be required if the individual were resident in
Canada, to be included in the income of the individual for the
purposes of that Act, including, without limitation,




(a)

salaries and wages,




(b)

bonuses,




(c)

taxable allowances, and




(d)

commissions and other similar amounts fixed by reference to the volume
of sales made or contracts negotiated,


but does not include a pension, annuity or superannuation benefit paid
by an employer to a former employee after the retirement of the former
employee;


"tax return"
means a tax return required to be filed under any of sections 32 to 34

[annual return; tax return — bankrupt employer; tax return for
part-year permanent establishment]

and 37
[tax return on demand]
.






Remuneration paid by employer




2

(1)


The following rules apply for the purposes of this Act:




(a)

an amount paid by the employer to a trustee or custodian, as the case
may be, for the benefit of an employee under an employees profit
sharing plan, employee benefit plan, employee trust or salary deferral
arrangement is deemed to be remuneration paid by the employer to or on
behalf of the employee if the amount, upon payment or allocation to
the employee, is required under section 5, 6 or 7 of the

Income Tax Act

(Canada) to be included in the income of a person under that Act;




(b)

all remuneration received, or deemed to be received under section 5, 6
or 7 of the

Income Tax Act

(Canada), by an employee of the employer in respect of the employee's
employment by the employer is deemed to be remuneration paid by that
employer to or on behalf of the employee.




(2)

In subsection (1) (a),
"employee benefit plan"
,
"employee trust"
,

"employees profit sharing plan"

and
"salary deferral arrangement"
have the same meanings as in section 248 (1) of the

Income Tax Act

(Canada).






BC remuneration




3

(1)


For the purposes of this Act, the remuneration paid to or on behalf of
an employee, other than a former employee, who reports for work at a
permanent establishment of the employer in British Columbia at any
time during a calendar year includes all remuneration paid to or on
behalf of the employee during the calendar year, whether or not the
employee also reports for work at a permanent establishment of the
employer outside British Columbia at any time during that calendar
year.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), if the commissioner is satisfied that an
employee reported for work at a permanent establishment of an employer
outside British Columbia for all or substantially all of the calendar
year, no remuneration paid to or on behalf of the employee is to be
included in the employer's BC remuneration for that calendar year.




(3)

If the commissioner is satisfied that a former employee, in the
calendar year during which the former employee was last employed by
the former employee's employer, reported for work at a permanent
establishment of the employer outside British Columbia for all or
substantially all of the period in that calendar year the former
employee was employed by that employer, no remuneration paid to or on
behalf of the former employee is to be included in the employer's BC
remuneration for the calendar year in which the remuneration was paid.






Deemed permanent establishment




4


Without limiting the definition of "permanent establishment", the
following rules apply for the purposes of this Act:




(a)

a corporation is deemed to have a permanent establishment in the place
designated in its charter, articles of incorporation, constitution or
bylaws, as the case may be, as being the corporation's head or
registered office;




(b)

an employer is deemed to have a permanent establishment in a
jurisdiction if the employer carries on business in the jurisdiction
through an employee or agent who has general authority to contract on
behalf of that employer;




(c)

an employer is deemed to have a permanent establishment in a
jurisdiction if an employee or agent of the employer




(i)

has a stock of merchandise owned by that employer in the jurisdiction,
and




(ii)

fills orders received by the employee or agent from the stock of
merchandise;




(d)

land or premises owned or leased by an employer is deemed to be a
permanent establishment of the employer;




(e)

an employer is deemed to have a permanent establishment at the place
where and during the time when the employer uses substantial machinery
or equipment;




(f)

an insurance corporation is deemed to have a permanent establishment
in each jurisdiction in which the corporation is registered or
licensed to do business;




(g)

an employer who does not otherwise carry on business in Canada in a
calendar year is deemed to have a permanent establishment at any place
where the employer, in the calendar year, produces, grows, mines,
creates, manufactures, fabricates, improves, packs, preserves,
processes or constructs, in whole or in part, any thing in Canada,
whether or not the employer exports that thing before selling it;




(h)

an employer who has no fixed place of business is deemed to have a
permanent establishment in the principal place in which the employer
conducts business and in each place from which the employer carries on
or transacts a substantial portion of the business.






Reporting for work at permanent establishment




5


For the purposes of this Act, an employee reports for work at a
permanent establishment of the employee's employer if the employee
comes to the permanent establishment in person to work or otherwise
can reasonably be considered to be attached to the permanent
establishment.






Deemed employer




6

(1)


In this section:



"BC resident"

means a person who has a permanent establishment in British Columbia;



"non-resident employer"

means an employer that does not have a permanent establishment in
British Columbia.




(2)

This section applies if a BC resident and a non-resident employer
enter into an agreement under which work is performed or services are
provided for the benefit of the BC resident by an employee of the
non-resident employer.




(3)

Subsection (4) applies in respect of the BC resident and employee
referred to in subsection (2) if the following requirements are met
during the period in a calendar year in which the work is performed or
the services are provided:




(a)

the non-resident employer does not have a permanent establishment in
British Columbia at any time during the period;




(b)

the non-resident employer is not subject to tax under this Act in
respect of the remuneration paid to or on behalf of the employee
during the period in respect of the work performed or services
provided by the employee for the benefit of the BC resident;




(c)

the work performed or services provided by the employee for the
benefit of the BC resident




(i)

is performed or provided in British Columbia under the direction or
approval of the BC resident, and




(ii)

is of a type that can reasonably be considered to be performed or
provided by an employee of the BC resident;




(d)

the BC resident and non-resident employer do not deal with each other
at arm's length at any time during the period or did not deal with
each other at arm's length at the time the agreement referred to in
subsection (2) was entered into.




(4)

For the purposes of this Act, if this subsection applies to a BC
resident and employee referred to in subsection (2), the following
rules apply during the period in the calendar year in which the work
is performed or the services are provided:




(a)

the BC resident is deemed




(i)

to be the employee's employer, and




(ii)

to have paid remuneration to or on behalf of the employee during the
period in an amount equal to the remuneration paid by the non-resident
employer to or on behalf of the employee during the period in respect
of the work performed or services provided by the employee for the
benefit of the BC resident;




(b)

the employee is deemed




(i)

to be the BC resident's employee, and




(ii)

to report for work during the period at a permanent establishment of
the BC resident in British Columbia.






Application of federal provisions — arm's length




7


Section 251 of the

Income Tax Act

(Canada) applies for the purposes of this Act.




Part 2 — Imposition of Tax



Division 1 — Tax on Employers





Tax on BC remuneration paid in calendar year




8


Subject to this Act, an employer must pay to the government for each
calendar year a tax equal to 1.95% of the BC remuneration paid by the
employer during the calendar year.




Division 2 — Employers Other Than Associated Employers and Charitable or
Non-Profit Employers





Application of Division




9


This Division applies to an employer for a calendar year unless
Division 3, 4 or 5 of this Part applies to the employer for the
calendar year.






Exemption — BC remuneration not greater than $500 000




10


Subject to section 12, if the BC remuneration paid during a calendar
year by an employer is not greater than $500 000, no tax is
payable under this Part by the employer for the calendar year.






Notch rate — BC remuneration not greater than $1 500 000




11


Subject to section 12, if the BC remuneration paid during a calendar
year by an employer is greater than $500 000 but not greater than
$1 500 000, the tax payable under this Part by the employer for
the calendar year is equal to 2.925% of the amount by which the BC
remuneration paid exceeds $500 000.






Proration for part-year permanent establishment




12

(1)


This section applies to an employer for a calendar year if the
employer has a permanent establishment in British Columbia for only
part of the calendar year.




(2)

If the BC remuneration paid during a calendar year by an employer to
whom this section applies is not greater than the amount determined by
the following formula, no tax is payable under this Part by the
employer for the calendar year:





amount = $500 000 ×

BC permanent establishment







365






where


BC permanent establishment
=

the number of days in the calendar year in which the employer
has one or more permanent establishments in British Columbia.







(3)

If the BC remuneration paid during a calendar year by an employer to
whom this section applies is greater than the amount determined by the
formula in subsection (2) but not greater than the amount determined
by the following formula, the tax payable under this Part by the
employer for the calendar year is equal to 2.925% of the amount by
which the BC remuneration paid exceeds the amount determined by the
formula in subsection (2):





amount = $1 500 000 ×

BC permanent establishment







365






where


BC permanent establishment
=

the number of days in the calendar year in which the employer
has one or more permanent establishments in British Columbia.







Division 3 — Associated Employers





Definition of "associated employers"




13


In this Division,
"associated employers"
, in relation to an employer for a calendar year, means all of the
following:




(a)

the employer;




(b)

all of the employers that are associated with the employer referred to
in paragraph (a) at the end of the calendar year.






Application of Division




14

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), this Division applies to an employer for a
calendar year if the employer is associated with one or more other
employers at the end of the calendar year.




(2)

This Division does not apply to an employer for a calendar year if
Division 4 or 5 of this Part applies to the employer for the calendar
year.






Application of federal provisions — associated employers




15

(1)


Subject to this Act, section 256 of the

Income Tax Act

(Canada) applies for the purposes of this Division.




(2)

Section 256 (2), (2.1) and (7) to (9) of the

Income Tax Act

(Canada) does not apply for the purposes of this Division.




(3)

In applying section 256 of the

Income Tax Act

(Canada) for the purposes of this Division, the following rules apply:




(a)

that section is to be read as if the references to "taxation year"
were references to "calendar year";




(b)

subsections (3) and (4) of that section are to be read as if the
references to "Minister" were references to "commissioner".






Other rules — associated employers




16

(1)


For the purposes of determining, at any time, whether 2 or more
employers are associated with each other, the following rules apply:




(a)

if an employer is an individual,




(i)

the employer is deemed to be a corporation having issued a capital
stock of a single class of voting shares, and




(ii)

the individual is deemed to own, at that time, all of the issued
shares of that class;




(b)

if an employer is a partnership or a trust,




(i)

the employer is deemed to be a corporation having issued a capital
stock of a single class of voting shares divided into 100 issued
shares, and




(ii)

each member of the partnership or each beneficiary under the trust is
deemed to own, at that time, the number of issued shares of that class
that is equal to the proportion of 100 that




(A)

the member's or beneficiary's share of the income or loss of the
partnership or trust for the fiscal period of the partnership or trust
that includes that time

is of



(B)

the total income or loss of the partnership or trust for that fiscal
period.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1) (b) (ii), if the income or loss of
the partnership or trust for a period is zero, the proportion under
that subsection is to be determined as if the partnership or trust had
income for the period in the amount of $100.




(3)

The following rules apply for the purposes of this Division:




(a)

subject to paragraph (b), if




(i)

2 employers would not, but for this paragraph, be associated with each
other at a particular time, and




(ii)

each of the 2 employers is associated with the same employer at the
particular time,


the 2 employers are deemed to be associated with each other at that
particular time;




(b)

subject to paragraph (c), if an employer would, but for this
paragraph, be associated at a particular time with a charitable or
non-profit employer, the 2 employers are deemed not to be associated
with each other at the particular time;




(c)

if 2 or more employers who are not charitable or non-profit employers
would be deemed to be associated with each other under paragraph (a)
at a particular time because each of the employers is, but for
paragraph (b), associated with the same charitable or non-profit
employer, those employers are deemed to be associated with each other
at the particular time;




(d)

if it may reasonably be considered that




(i)

the separate existence of 2 or more employers at the end of a calendar
year, or




(ii)

the transfer of a business or part of a business from one employer to
another employer in a calendar year


was undertaken or arranged primarily for the purpose of reducing the
amount of tax payable under this Act by any one of the employers for
the calendar year, those employers are deemed to be associated with
each other at the end of the calendar year.






Exemption — associated employers




17


No tax is payable under this Part by an employer for a calendar year
if the total BC remuneration paid during the calendar year by all of
the associated employers is not greater than




(a)

$500 000, or




(b)

if each of the associated employers has a permanent establishment in
British Columbia for only part of the calendar year, the amount
determined by the following formula in respect of the associated
employers:





amount = $500 000 ×

BC permanent establishment







365






where


BC permanent establishment
=

the number of days in the calendar year in which at least one of
the associated employers has one or more permanent
establishments in British Columbia.









Allocation agreement




18

(1)


In this section:



"allocation agreement"

means a written agreement in the form and containing the information
required by the commissioner;



"exemption amount"

, in relation to an employer for a calendar year, means the lesser of
the following:




(a)

the amount assigned to the employer for the calendar year under the
allocation agreement referred to in subsection (2) (b);




(b)

the amount determined by the following formula:





amount = $500 000 ×

BC permanent establishment







365






where


BC permanent establishment
=

the number of days in the calendar year in which the employer
has one or more permanent establishments in British Columbia.







(2)

This section applies to an employer for a calendar year if the
following requirements are met:




(a)

the total BC remuneration paid during the calendar year by all of the
associated employers is




(i)

greater than $500 000 and not greater than $1 500 000, or




(ii)

if each of the associated employers has a permanent establishment in
British Columbia for only part of the calendar year,




(A)

greater than the amount determined by the formula in section 17 (b),
and




(B)

not greater than the amount determined by the following formula in
respect of the associated employers:





amount = $1 500 000 ×

BC permanent establishment







365






where


BC permanent establishment
=

the number of days in the calendar year in which at least one of
the associated employers has one or more permanent
establishments in British Columbia;







(b)

the associated employers file with the commissioner an allocation
agreement that assigns, for the purposes of this Division, an amount
not less than zero to each of the associated employers for the
calendar year;




(c)

the total of the amounts assigned by the allocation agreement referred
to in paragraph (b) does not exceed $500 000 or the amount
referred to in paragraph (a) (ii) (A), as the case may be.




(3)

If the BC remuneration paid during a calendar year by an employer to
whom this section applies is not greater than the employer's exemption
amount for the calendar year, no tax is payable under this Part by the
employer for that calendar year.




(4)

If the BC remuneration paid during a calendar year by an employer to
whom this section applies is greater than the employer's exemption
amount for the calendar year, the tax payable under this Part by the
employer for that calendar year is equal to 2.925% of the amount by
which the BC remuneration paid exceeds the employer's exemption
amount.




Division 4 — Charitable or Non-Profit Employers





Application of Division




19

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), this Division applies to an employer for a
calendar year if the employer is a charitable or non-profit employer




(a)

on the last day of the calendar year, or




(b)

in the case of an employer that has a permanent establishment in
British Columbia for only part of the calendar year, on the last day
in the calendar year that the employer has a permanent establishment
in British Columbia.




(2)

This Division does not apply to an employer for a calendar year if
Division 5 of this Part applies to the employer for the calendar year.






Exemption — BC remuneration not greater than $1 500 000




20


Subject to section 22, if the BC remuneration paid during a calendar
year by a charitable or non-profit employer is not greater than $1
500 000, no tax is payable under this Part by the charitable or
non-profit employer for the calendar year.






Notch rate — BC remuneration not greater than $4 500 000




21


Subject to section 22, if the BC remuneration paid during a calendar
year by a charitable or non-profit employer is greater than $1
500 000 but not greater than $4 500 000, the tax payable
under this Part by the charitable or non-profit employer for the
calendar year is equal to 2.925% of the amount by which the BC
remuneration paid exceeds $1 500 000.






Proration for part-year permanent establishment




22

(1)


This section applies to a charitable or non-profit employer for a
calendar year if the charitable or non-profit employer has a permanent
establishment in British Columbia for only part of the calendar year.




(2)

If the BC remuneration paid during a calendar year by a charitable or
non-profit employer to whom this section applies is not greater than
the amount determined by the following formula, no tax is payable
under this Part by the charitable or non-profit employer for the
calendar year:





amount = $1 500 000 ×

BC permanent establishment







365






where


BC permanent establishment
=

the number of days in the calendar year in which the employer
has one or more permanent establishments in British Columbia.







(3)

If the BC remuneration paid during a calendar year by a charitable or
non-profit employer to whom this section applies is greater than the
amount determined by the formula in subsection (2) but not greater
than the amount determined by the following formula, the tax payable
under this Part by the charitable or non-profit employer for the
calendar year is equal to 2.925% of the amount by which the BC
remuneration paid exceeds the amount determined by the formula in
subsection (2):





amount = $4 500 000 ×

BC permanent establishment







365






where


BC permanent establishment
=

the number of days in the calendar year in which the employer
has one or more permanent establishments in British Columbia.







Division 5 — Charitable or Non-Profit Employers with 2 or More
Qualifying Locations





Definition of "qualifying location"




23

(1)


In this Division,
"qualifying location"
means a qualifying location within the meaning of subsection (2).




(2)

For the purposes of this Division, a qualifying location, in relation
to an employer, consists of all of the following:




(a)

land or premises that




(i)

is, or is part of, a permanent establishment of the employer in
British Columbia, and




(ii)

meets the following requirements:




(A)

the employer has the exclusive right to occupy the land or premises;




(B)

the land or premises is used and occupied solely by the employer;




(b)

any land or premises contiguous to the land or premises referred to in
paragraph (a) that is, or is part of, a permanent establishment of the
employer.






Application of Division




24


This Division applies to an employer for a calendar year if the
following requirements are met:




(a)

the employer is a charitable or non-profit employer




(i)

on the last day in the calendar year, or




(ii)

in the case of an employer that has a permanent establishment in
British Columbia for only part of the calendar year, on the last day
in the calendar year that the employer has a permanent establishment
in British Columbia;




(b)

the employer has 2 or more qualifying locations at any time during the
calendar year.






BC remuneration




25


For the purposes of this Division and subject to section 3
[BC remuneration]
, the following rules apply:




(a)

subject to paragraph (b) of this section, if an employee reports for
work at a qualifying location of a charitable or non-profit employer
in a calendar year, the BC remuneration paid by the charitable or
non-profit employer to or on behalf of the employee in respect of the
qualifying location is deemed to include all remuneration paid to or
on behalf of the employee during the calendar year;




(b)

if an employee reports for work at 2 or more qualifying locations of a
charitable or non-profit employer in a calendar year, the BC
remuneration paid by the charitable or non-profit employer to or on
behalf of the employee in respect of the qualifying location at which
that employee primarily reports for work is deemed to include all
remuneration paid to or on behalf of the employee during the calendar
year;




(c)

if an employee does not report for work at a qualifying location of a
charitable or non-profit employer in a calendar year, the BC
remuneration paid by the charitable or non-profit employer to or on
behalf of the employee is to be attributed to a qualifying location of
the charitable or non-profit employer that is reasonable having regard
to all of the circumstances;




(d)

without limiting paragraphs (a) to (c) of this section, all of the BC
remuneration paid by a charitable or non-profit employer during a
calendar year is to be attributed to one or more qualifying locations
of the charitable or non-profit employer for the calendar year.






Total tax payable




26


If this Division applies to a charitable or non-profit employer for a
calendar year, the tax payable by the charitable or non-profit
employer under this Part is equal to the total of the tax payable by
the charitable or non-profit employer for the calendar year in respect
of each qualifying location of the charitable or non-profit employer.






Exemption for qualifying location — BC remuneration not greater than
$1 500 000




27


Subject to section 30, if the BC remuneration paid during a calendar
year by a charitable or non-profit employer in respect of a qualifying
location is not greater than $1 500 000, no tax is payable under
this Part by the charitable or non-profit employer for the calendar
year in respect of the qualifying location.






Notch rate for qualifying location — BC remuneration not greater than
$4 500 000




28


Subject to section 30, if the BC remuneration paid during a calendar
year by a charitable or non-profit employer in respect of a qualifying
location is greater than $1 500 000 but not greater than $4
500 000, the tax payable under this Part by the charitable or
non-profit employer for the calendar year in respect of the qualifying
location is equal to 2.925% of the amount by which the BC remuneration
paid exceeds $1 500 000.






Tax payable for qualifying location — BC remuneration greater than $4
500 000




29


Subject to section 30, if the BC remuneration paid during a calendar
year by a charitable or non-profit employer in respect of a qualifying
location is greater than $4 500 000, the tax payable under this
Part by the charitable or non-profit employer for the calendar year in
respect of the qualifying location is equal to 1.95% of the BC
remuneration paid.






Proration for part-year permanent establishment




30

(1)


This section applies to a charitable or non-profit employer for a
calendar year if the charitable or non-profit employer has a permanent
establishment in British Columbia for only part of the calendar year.




(2)

If the BC remuneration paid during a calendar year by a charitable or
non-profit employer to whom this section applies in respect of a
qualifying location is not greater than the amount determined by the
following formula, no tax is payable under this Part by the charitable
or non-profit employer for the calendar year in respect of the
qualifying location:





amount = $1 500 000 ×

BC permanent establishment







365






where


BC permanent establishment
=

the number of days in the calendar year in which the employer
has one or more permanent establishments in British Columbia.







(3)

If the BC remuneration paid during a calendar year by a charitable or
non-profit employer to whom this section applies in respect of a
qualifying location is greater than the amount determined by the
formula set out in subsection (2) but not greater than the amount
determined by the following formula, the tax payable under this Part
by the charitable or non-profit employer for the calendar year in
respect of the qualifying location is equal to 2.925% of the amount by
which the BC remuneration paid exceeds the amount determined by the
formula set out in subsection (2):





amount = $4 500 000 ×

BC permanent establishment







365






where


BC permanent establishment
=

the number of days in the calendar year in which the employer
has one or more permanent establishments in British Columbia.







(4)

If the BC remuneration paid during a calendar year by a charitable or
non-profit employer to whom this section applies in respect of a
qualifying location is greater than the amount determined by the
formula set out in subsection (3), the tax payable under this Part by
the charitable or non-profit employer for the calendar year in respect
of the qualifying location is equal to 1.95% of the BC remuneration
paid.




Part 2.1 — Increased Employment Credit





Definitions




30.01



In this Part:



"associated employers"

, in relation to an employer, means all of the following:




(a)

the employer;




(b)

all of the employers that were associated with the employer referred
to in paragraph (a) on December 31, 2020;



"base period"

means the period beginning on July 1, 2020 and ending on September 30,
2020;



"base period remuneration"

means the total of all eligible remuneration paid by an employer to or
on behalf of an eligible employee in respect of all weeks in the base
period;



"determination"

, in relation to a determination under this Part, includes a
redetermination;



"eligible employee"

has the meaning set out in section 30.03
[eligible employee]
;



"eligible remuneration"

has the meaning set out in section 30.04
[eligible remuneration]
;



"increased employment credit"

means a deemed overpayment under this Part, calculated under section
30.08
[calculation of increased employment credit]
;



"normal redetermination period"

means the period referred to in section 30.09 (1) (b)
[determinations — general rule]
;



"public institution"

has the same meaning as in section 125.7 of the

Income Tax Act

(Canada), but does not include the following:




(a)

a corporation that meets all of the following conditions:




(i)

the corporation is a corporation described in section 149 (1) (d.5) of
the

Income Tax Act

(Canada);




(ii)

not less than 90% of the shares, or the capital, of the corporation
are owned by one or more Aboriginal governments, as defined in section
241 (10) of the

Income Tax Act

(Canada), or similar Indigenous governing bodies, described in section
149 (1) (c) of the

Income Tax Act

(Canada);




(iii)

the corporation carries on a business;




(b)

a corporation that meets all of the following conditions:




(i)

the corporation is a corporation described in section 149 (1) (d.6) of
the

Income Tax Act

(Canada);




(ii)

all of the shares, except directors' qualifying shares, or the
capital, of the corporation are owned by one or more of




(A)

an Aboriginal government, as defined in section 241 (10) of the

Income Tax Act

(Canada), or a similar Indigenous governing body, described in section
149 (1) (c) of the

Income Tax Act

(Canada), or




(B)

a corporation described in this paragraph or paragraph (a);




(iii)

the corporation carries on a business;



"qualifying period"

means the period beginning on October 1, 2020 and ending on December
31, 2020;



"qualifying period remuneration"

means the total of all eligible remuneration paid by an employer to or
on behalf of an eligible employee in respect of all weeks in the
qualifying period;



"registered political party"

means




(a)

a political party registered under Part 9

[Registration of Political Parties and Constituency Associations]

of the

Election Act

, or




(b)

a registered party, as defined in the

Canada Elections Act

;



"remuneration"

does not include any of the following:




(a)

an amount received or deemed to have been received by an employee
under section 7 of the

Income Tax Act

(Canada);




(b)

an amount, in respect of the base period or the qualifying period,
paid by an employer to or on behalf of an employee after June 30,
2021;




(c)

an amount paid to or on behalf of an employee in lieu of notice of
termination;



"report for work in British Columbia"

means, in respect of an employee,




(a)

to work in person at a permanent establishment of the employee's
employer in British Columbia,




(b)

to be physically present in British Columbia for the performance of
the employee's duties and be paid from or through a permanent
establishment of the employer in British Columbia, or




(c)

if the employee is on paid leave from the employer,




(i)

to have worked for the employer as described in paragraph (a)
immediately before the start of the leave, or




(ii)

to have worked for the employer as described in paragraph (b)
immediately before the start of the leave and to be paid, while on
leave, from or through a permanent establishment of the employer in
British Columbia.






Employer eligibility for increased employment credit




30.02

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), the following employers are not eligible
for an increased employment credit:




(a)

a registered political party;




(b)

a public institution.




(2)

An employer that operates a private school or private college, within
the meaning of section 8901.1 of the Income Tax Regulations (Canada),
is eligible for an increased employment credit.




(3)

A partnership is not eligible for an increased employment credit if
50% or more of the fair market value of all interests in the
partnership is held, at any time during the period beginning on July
1, 2020 and ending on December 31, 2020, directly or indirectly, by
one or more persons that are




(a)

a registered political party, or




(b)

a public institution, other than an Aboriginal government, as defined
in section 241 (10) of the

Income Tax Act

(Canada), or a similar Indigenous governing body, described in section
149 (1) (c) of the

Income Tax Act

(Canada).






Eligible employee




30.03

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), an employee is an eligible employee of an
employer for the purposes of this Part when the employee is reporting
for work in British Columbia during the base period or the qualifying
period.




(2)

An employee is not an eligible employee if both of the following
circumstances apply:




(a)

the employee does not deal with the employer at arm's length;




(b)

the employee was not an employee of the employer on July 1, 2020.






Eligible remuneration




30.04

(1)


Subject to subsections (2) and (3) and for the purposes of this Part,
eligible remuneration is remuneration paid by an employer to or on
behalf of an eligible employee in respect of all days in a week in the
base period or the qualifying period, as applicable, on which the
employee reported for work in British Columbia.




(2)

The remuneration described in subsection (1) is deemed to be the
lesser of




(a)

the remuneration paid by the employer to or on behalf of the employee
in respect of the days in the week on which the employee reported for
work in British Columbia, and




(b)

$1 129.33.




(3)

If the base period or the qualifying period begins or ends during a
week,




(a)

the amount under subsection (2) (a) only includes the remuneration
paid to or on behalf of the employee in respect of the days of that
week that fall within the relevant period, and




(b)

the amount under subsection (2) (b) is prorated for that week by the
number of days of that week that fall within the relevant period.






Associated employers




30.05

(1)


Despite section 14 (2)
[application of Division 3]
, in determining whether two or more employers are associated with one
another for the purposes of this Part, sections 15
[application of federal provisions — associated employers]
and 16 (1), (2) and (3) (a)
[other rules — associated employers]
apply.




(2)

For the purposes of this Part, if two or more employers are associated
with one another and employ the same eligible employee in the base
period or the qualifying period,




(a)

only one of the associated employers may claim an increased employment
credit in respect of that employee,




(b)

the associated employer that claims an increased employment credit in
respect of that employee is deemed to have paid all of the
remuneration paid to or on behalf of that employee in respect of the
base period or the qualifying period by all of the associated
employers, and




(c)

the associated employer that claims the increased employment credit in
respect of that employee must file with the commissioner a written
agreement described in subsection (3).




(3)

A written agreement referred to in subsection (2) (c) must




(a)

describe which of the associated employers will claim an increased
employment credit with respect to the employee who is employed by two
or more of the associated employers, and




(b)

be in the form, and contain any further information, required by the
commissioner.






Application for increased employment credit




30.06

(1)


An employer that wishes to claim an increased employment credit must




(a)

file an application electronically in the form and manner required by
the commissioner, and




(b)

file with the application any other information or records required by
the commissioner.




(2)

An application under this section must be filed on or before December
31, 2021.






Determination of increased employment credit




30.07

(1)


On receiving an application under section 30.06, the commissioner must
examine the application, and any other information or records filed
with the application, and determine




(a)

whether the applicant is eligible for an increased employment credit,
and




(b)

if the applicant is eligible, the amount of the applicant's increased
employment credit in accordance with section 30.08.




(2)

In making a determination, the commissioner is not bound by an
application filed under this Part or any other information or records
supplied under this Act.




(3)

Subject to being amended or varied on appeal or by a redetermination,
a determination is valid and binding despite any error, defect or
omission in the determination or in procedure.






Calculation of increased employment credit




30.08

(1)


The amount of the increased employment credit is determined by the
following formula:





amount = (qualifying amount − base amount) × 15%



where


qualifying amount
=

the total of all qualifying period remuneration paid to all of
an employer's eligible employees;



base amount
=

the total of all base period remuneration paid to all of an
employer's eligible employees.







(2)

An overpayment of the amount calculated under subsection (1) on
account of an employer's liability under this Act for the 2020
calendar year is deemed to have arisen if




(a)

an employer has applied under section 30.06
[application for increased employment credit]
for an increased employment credit,




(b)

the employer is eligible for an increased employment credit, and




(c)

the amount calculated under subsection (1) is greater than zero.




(3)

A deemed overpayment under subsection (2) arises even if no tax is
payable under this Act by the employer for the 2020 calendar year.






Determinations — general rule




30.09

(1)


The commissioner may make a determination




(a)

at any time, if




(i)

the applicant, or a person filing the applicant's application for an
increased employment credit, has made any misrepresentation or
committed any fraud in filing the application or in supplying, at any
time, other information or records, or




(ii)

a waiver filed under subsection (2) by the applicant is in effect at
that time, or




(b)

within 6 years after the date of the original notice of determination,
in any other case.




(2)

An applicant may file a waiver with the commissioner before the
expiration of the normal redetermination period.




(3)

A waiver filed under subsection (2) continues in effect until 6 months
after the applicant files with the commissioner a notice revoking the
waiver.




(4)

A waiver filed under subsection (2) and a notice filed under
subsection (3) must be filed in the form and manner, and containing
the information, required by the commissioner.




(5)

Despite subsection (1), a determination to which subsection (1) (a)
(i) or (ii) applies may be made after the applicant's normal
redetermination period, but only to the extent that the determination
can reasonably be considered as relating to,




(a)

if subsection (1) (a) (i) applies, any misrepresentation made by the
applicant, or a person filing the applicant's application for an
increased employment credit, or any fraud committed by the applicant
or that other person in filing the application or in supplying any
other information or records under this Act, or




(b)

if subsection (1) (a) (ii) applies, a matter specified in the waiver
filed with the commissioner.




(6)

The authority of the commissioner to make a determination under
section 30.10
[consequential determinations — income taxes]
or 30.11
[consequential redeterminations after appeal]




(a)

is in addition to the authority to make a determination under section
30.07
[determination of increased employment credit]
or this section,




(b)

is not limited by the authority to make a determination under section
30.07
[determination of increased employment credit]
or this section, and




(c)

does not limit the authority to make a determination under section
30.07
[determination of increased employment credit]
or this section.






Consequential determinations — income taxes




30.10

(1)


Subsection (2) applies in relation to an applicant under this Part if




(a)

the applicant is issued a notice of assessment, reassessment or
additional assessment under the

Income Tax Act

(Canada), and




(b)

an amount relevant in calculating the amount of the applicant's
increased employment credit would be changed if a determination were
made under this Part.




(2)

If this subsection applies,




(a)

the applicant must file with the commissioner




(i)

a notice, in the form and manner and containing the information,
required by the commissioner, and




(ii)

any other information or records required by the commissioner to be
filed with the notice, and




(b)

the commissioner may, subject to subsection (4), make a determination,
but only to the extent that the determination can reasonably be
considered as relating to the assessment, reassessment or additional
assessment under the

Income Tax Act

(Canada).




(3)

The applicant must file the notice, and any other information and
records, referred to in subsection (2) (a) on or before the later of




(a)

September 30, 2021, and




(b)

the date that is 90 days after the applicant receives the notice
referred to in subsection (1) (a).




(4)

The commissioner may make a determination under subsection (2) (b)
only before the later of




(a)

the last day of the normal redetermination period, and




(b)

the end of the day that is one year after the day that is the earlier
of




(i)

the day that the commissioner is notified under subsection (2) (a),
and




(ii)

the day that the commissioner is otherwise notified of the assessment,
reassessment or additional assessment under the

Income Tax Act

(Canada).






Consequential redeterminations after appeal




30.11

(1)


This section applies in relation to a person if




(a)

a court has, on the disposition of an appeal by the person in respect
of a determination,




(i)

allowed the appeal,




(ii)

varied the decision from which the appeal was made, or




(iii)

referred the decision back to the commissioner for reconsideration,
and




(b)

any further appeal is disposed of or the time for filing any further
appeal has expired.




(2)

If this section applies in relation to a person, the commissioner must
make a redetermination in accordance with the decision of the court.






Notice of determination




30.12

(1)


After the commissioner makes a determination in respect of an
applicant, the commissioner must give the applicant a notice of
determination.




(2)

Despite section 92 (4)
[how and when documents are given by commissioner]
, if a notice of determination is sent by ordinary mail, registered
mail or electronic mail, the notice, for the purposes of this Act, is
deemed to have been given on the date of that notice.






Payment of increased employment credit




30.13

(1)


Without limiting section 69
[refund of overpayment]
, if an overpayment is deemed to have arisen under section 30.08
[calculation of increased employment credit]
, the minister, on the certificate of the commissioner as to facts,
must refund out of the consolidated revenue fund to the employer the
amount of the overpayment.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), if there is an amount owing to the government
under this Act by the employer, the amount overpaid must first be
applied in satisfaction of the amount owing, and notice must be given
to the employer, accompanied by the refund of the amount overpaid and
remaining unapplied.




(3)

Despite subsections (1) and (2), if the amount to be refunded under
subsection (1) or (2) is less than $10, the amount overpaid, and, in
the case of subsection (2), remaining unapplied, is deemed to be zero.




(4)

The amount payable under subsection (1) must be paid by electronic
funds transfer.




(5)

Despite the

Financial Administration Act

and the Interest on Overdue Accounts Payable Regulation, B.C. Reg.
215/83, no interest is payable by the government with respect to the
amount payable under subsection (1).






Anti-avoidance rule




30.14



In applying section 53
[anti-avoidance rule]
for the purposes of this Part, the following rules apply:




(a)

a reference in that section to a "tax benefit" includes an increased
employment credit to which an employer is not entitled, or an
increased employment credit amount that is greater than the amount to
which an employer is entitled;




(b)

in the definition of "tax consequences", the reference to "BC
remuneration" is to be read as a reference to "increased employment
credit";




(c)

in subsection (3), the reference to "by assessment" is to be read as a
reference to "by determination".






Gross negligence — increased employment credit




30.15

(1)


If an employer knowingly, or under circumstances amounting to gross
negligence, makes, or participates in, assents to or acquiesces in the
making of, a false statement or an omission in an increased employment
credit application or other record filed or supplied or in information
supplied under this Part, the employer is liable to a penalty equal to
the greater of




(a)

$100, and




(b)

50% of the amount by which the amount of an increased employment
credit calculated on the basis of the false statement or omission
exceeds the amount of the increased employment credit calculated on
the basis of accurate and complete information.




(2)

An employer must pay to the government interest on a penalty under
subsection (1) from the date on which the application or other record
was filed or supplied, or the date on which the information was
supplied, until the date of payment.






Misrepresentation by third party — increased employment credit




30.16


In applying section 163.2 (5) of the

Income Tax Act

(Canada) for the purposes of this Part, the following rules apply:




(a)

section 163.2 (5) of the

Income Tax Act

(Canada) is to be read as if the reference to "subsection 163 (2)"
were a reference to section 30.15
[gross negligence — increased employment credit]
of this Act;




(b)

section 163.2 (5) of the

Income Tax Act

(Canada) is to be read as if the reference to "a return filed for the
purposes of this Act" were a reference to "an application for an
increased employment credit or other record filed or supplied or in
information supplied under this Part".






Excess refund — increased employment credit




30.17

(1)


If it appears from an inspection, audit, examination or investigation
or from other information available to the commissioner that, under
section 30.13 (1)
[payment of increased employment credit]
, an amount has been refunded to an employer in excess of the amount
to which the employer was entitled under this Part, the excess is
deemed to be an amount that became payable to the government by the
employer on the day on which the amount was refunded.




(2)

If an amount applied under section 30.13 (2)
[payment of increased employment credit]
to an amount owing by an employer is in excess of the amount to which
the employer is entitled as a refund under this Act, this section
applies in respect of the amount applied as if that amount had been
refunded to the employer on the day the amount was applied to the
amount owing.




(3)

The commissioner may at any time assess a person for any amount
payable under subsection (1) or (2).




(4)

In applying Division 3
[Assessments]
of Part 3
[Administration and Enforcement]
for the purposes of this Part, "assessable amount", in relation to a
person, is deemed to include an amount payable under this section by
the person.






Interest




30.18



If an amount is deemed under section 30.17 to be an amount payable by
an employer, the employer is liable to pay interest on the amount from
the date the amount became payable under that section until the date
of payment.






Appeals




30.19

(1)


In applying Part 4
[Appeals]
for the purposes of this Part, the following rules apply:




(a)

Part 4 is to be read as if the references to an "assessment" were
references to a determination under this Part;




(b)

section 75 (5)
[appeal to minister]
is to be read as if the reference to section 49
[assessments of other amounts payable]
were a reference to section 30.17
[excess refund — increased employment credit]
.




(2)

Despite section 75 (2)
[appeal to minister]
, for the purposes of this Part, written notice of an appeal must be
given to the minister after April 20, 2021 and on or before the later
of




(a)

September 30, 2021, and




(b)

the date that is 90 days after the date of the notice of determination
in respect of the matter being appealed.






Offences — increased employment credit




30.20


Without limiting section 99
[general offences]
, a person who does any of the following commits an offence:




(a)

destroys, alters, mutilates, hides or otherwise disposes of a record,
to obtain or claim an increased employment credit to which a person is
not entitled, or in an amount that is greater than that amount to
which a person is entitled, under this Part;




(b)

makes, or participates in, assents to or acquiesces in the making of,
a false or deceptive entry in a record related to an application for
an increased employment credit under this Part;




(c)

makes or uses, or participates in, assents to or acquiesces in the
making or use of, a record in a false or deceptive manner in order to
obtain or claim an increased employment credit to which a person is
not entitled, or in an amount greater than that amount to which a
person is entitled, under this Part;




(d)

wilfully, in any manner, attempts to obtain or claim an increased
employment credit to which a person is not entitled, or in an amount
that is greater than the amount to which a person is entitled, under
this Part;




(e)

conspires with any person to do anything described in paragraphs (a)
to (d).






Penalties — increased employment credit




30.21


In applying section 100
[penalties]
for the purposes of this Part, the following rules apply:




(a)

a reference to "an offence under section 99" is to be read to include
an offence under section 30.20;




(b)

a reference to "the amount of tax that was sought to be evaded" is to
be read as "the amount of increased employment credit to which a
person is not entitled, or that is greater than that amount to which a
person is entitled".






Assessment of assessable amount




30.22

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), the commissioner may assess an employer for
an assessable amount at any time after receiving an application under
this Part from the employer.




(2)

In applying section 50 (1)
[assessments of penalties and interest]
for the purposes of this Part,




(a)

a reference to section 46
[assessments — general rules]
is to be read as a reference to section 30.09
[determinations — general rule]
,




(b)

a reference to section 47
[consequential assessments — income taxes]
is to be read as a reference to section 30.10
[consequential determinations — income taxes]
, and




(c)

a reference to section 48
[consequential reassessments after appeal]
is to be read as a reference to section 30.11
[consequential redeterminations after appeal]
.






Information sharing




30.23


An applicant under this Part is deemed to be a taxpayer for the
purposes of sections 90
[communication of information]
and 91
[information-sharing agreements]
.






Repeal by regulation




30.24


After December 31, 2024, the Lieutenant Governor in Council may repeal
this Part and section 107.01
[retroactive regulations]
by regulation.




Part 3 — Administration and Enforcement



Division 1 — Registration





Registration




31

(1)


An employer must apply to the commissioner to be registered for the
purposes of this Act on or before December 31 of the first calendar
year in respect of which




(a)

the employer is liable to pay tax under this Act, or




(b)

in the case of an employer to whom Division 5 of Part 2 applies for a
calendar year, the BC remuneration paid by the employer during the
calendar year is greater than




(i)

$1 500 000, or




(ii)

if the employer has a permanent establishment in British Columbia for
only part of the calendar year, the amount determined by the formula
in section 30 (2)
[proration for part-year permanent establishment]
.




(2)

An application under subsection (1) must be in the form and contain
the information required by the commissioner.




(3)

An employer required to file an application under subsection (1) must




(a)

file the application electronically in the manner required by the
commissioner, and




(b)

file, with the application, any other information or records required
by the commissioner.




(4)

On receiving an application and any other information or records to be
filed with the application, the commissioner may register the employer
for the purposes of this Act and issue the employer a registration
number.




Division 2 — Returns, Instalments, Payment of Tax and Excess Refund





Annual return




32

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), an employer must file with the commissioner
a tax return for each calendar year.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply to an employer for a calendar year if,




(a)

in the case of an employer to whom Division 5 of Part 2 applies for
the calendar year, the BC remuneration paid by the employer during the
calendar year is not greater than




(i)

$1 500 000, or




(ii)

if the employer has a permanent establishment in British Columbia for
only part of the calendar year, the amount determined by the formula
in section 30 (2)
[proration for part-year permanent establishment]
, or




(b)

in any other case, the employer is not liable to pay tax under this
Act for the calendar year.




(3)

The employer must, without notice or demand, file the tax return under
subsection (1) for a calendar year on or before March 31 in the year
following the calendar year.






Tax return — bankrupt employer




33

(1)


Despite section 32, if that section applies to an employer for a
calendar year in which the employer becomes bankrupt, the employer
must file with the commissioner a tax return for the portion of the
calendar year before the date the employer becomes bankrupt.




(2)

The employer must file the tax return under subsection (1) of this
section within 90 days after the date the employer becomes bankrupt.






Tax return for part-year permanent establishment




34


Despite section 32, if that section applies to an employer for a
calendar year in which the employer ceases to have a permanent
establishment in British Columbia, the employer must file with the
commissioner the tax return required to be filed under that section
within 90 days after the date on which the employer ceases to have a
permanent establishment in British Columbia.






Tax return — person dealing with property or business of employer




35


A trustee in bankruptcy, assignee, liquidator, receiver, administrator
or any other person administering, managing, winding up, controlling
or otherwise dealing with the property or business of an employer who
has not filed a tax return required under section 32, 33 or 34 must
file the tax return with the commissioner within 90 days after the
date on which the person began dealing with the property or business
of the employer.






Extension of time




36


The commissioner may at any time extend the time established by
section 32, 33, 34 or 35 for filing a tax return under the applicable
section.






Tax return on demand




37

(1)


On written demand given to a person by the commissioner, the person
must file with the commissioner, on or before the date specified in
the demand, a tax return for a calendar year.




(2)

Subsection (1) applies whether or not a tax return has been or is
required to be filed under section 32, 33, 34 or 35.






Form and contents of tax return




38

(1)


A tax return must be in the form and contain the information required
by the commissioner.




(2)

A person required to file a tax return must




(a)

file the tax return electronically in the manner required by the
commissioner, and




(b)

file, with the tax return, any other information or records required
by the commissioner.






Duty to obtain certificate before distribution




39


A trustee in bankruptcy, assignee, liquidator, receiver, administrator
or any other person administering, managing, winding up, controlling
or otherwise dealing with the property or business of an employer must
not distribute assets of the employer unless a certificate has been
obtained from the commissioner certifying that no amount is owing to
the government under this Act by the employer.






Trustee in bankruptcy — notice to commissioner




40


If a trustee in bankruptcy is appointed to administer, manage, wind
up, control or otherwise deal with the property or business of an
employer, the trustee in bankruptcy must, within 10 days after the
appointment, give written notice of the appointment to the
commissioner.






Instalments




41


If an employer's tax payable for the preceding calendar year exceeds
the prescribed amount, the employer must pay to the government, on
account of the employer's tax payable under this Act for the current
calendar year, on or before June 15, September 15 and
December 15 in the current calendar year, an amount that is not
less than 25% of the lesser of




(a)

the employer's tax payable for the preceding calendar year, and




(b)

the employer's estimated tax payable for the current calendar year.






Payment with filed tax return




42


On or before the date an employer is required to file a tax return for
a calendar year, the employer must pay to the government the amount
remaining unpaid of the employer's tax payable under this Act for the
calendar year.






Excess refund




43

(1)


If it appears from an inspection, audit, examination or investigation
or from other information available to the commissioner that an amount
has been refunded to an employer in excess of the amount to which the
employer was entitled as a refund under this Act, the excess is deemed
to be an amount that became payable to the government by the employer
on the day on which the amount was refunded.




(2)

If an amount applied under section 69 (2)
[refund of overpayment]
to an amount owing by an employer is in excess of the amount to which
the employer is entitled as a refund under this Act, this section
applies in respect of the amount applied as if that amount had been
refunded to the employer on the day the amount was applied to the
amount owing.




Division 3 — Assessments





Definitions




44


In this Division:



"assessable amount"

, in relation to a person, means




(a)

any tax payable under this Act by the person,




(b)

any penalties payable under this Act by the person,




(c)

an amount payable under section 43
[excess refund]
by the person, and




(d)

any interest payable under this Act by the person;



"normal reassessment period"

means the period referred to in section 46 (1) (b)
[assessments — general rules]
for a person for a calendar year.






Examination of tax return and resulting assessment




45


After the commissioner receives an employer's tax return for a
calendar year and any other information or records required to be
filed with the tax return, the commissioner must




(a)

examine the tax return, and




(b)

assess the employer for any assessable amounts for the calendar year.






Assessments — general rules




46

(1)


The commissioner may assess a person for an assessable amount for a
calendar year




(a)

at any time, if




(i)

the person has failed to file a tax return for the calendar year,




(ii)

the person or a person filing the person's tax return for the calendar
year has made any misrepresentation or committed any fraud




(A)

in filing the tax return, or




(B)

in supplying, at any time, other information or records under this Act
for the calendar year, or




(iii)

a waiver filed under subsection (2) by the person for the calendar
year is in effect at that time, or




(b)

within 6 years after the date of the original notice of assessment for
the calendar year, in any other case.




(2)

A person may, before the expiration of the normal reassessment period
for a calendar year, file with the commissioner a waiver for the
calendar year.




(3)

A waiver filed under subsection (2) continues in effect until 6 months
after the person files with the commissioner a notice revoking the
waiver.




(4)

A waiver filed under subsection (2) and a notice filed under
subsection (3) must be filed in the form and manner, and containing
the information, required by the commissioner.




(5)

Despite subsection (1), an assessment to which subsection (1) (a) (ii)
or (iii) applies in respect of a person for a calendar year may be
made after the person's normal reassessment period for the calendar
year, but only to the extent that the assessment can reasonably be
considered as relating to,




(a)

if subsection (1) (a) (ii) applies to the assessment, any
misrepresentation made by the person or another person who filed the
person's tax return for the calendar year or any fraud committed by
the person or that other person in filing the tax return or in
supplying any other information or records under this Act, or




(b)

if subsection (1) (a) (iii) applies to the assessment, a matter
specified in the waiver filed with the commissioner for the calendar
year.




(6)

The authority of the commissioner to assess a person for an assessable
amount under sections 47 to 50




(a)

is in addition to the authority to make an assessment under section 45
or this section,




(b)

is not limited by the authority to make an assessment under section 45
or this section, and




(c)

does not limit the authority to make an assessment under section 45 or
this section.






Consequential assessments — income taxes




47

(1)


Subsection (2) applies in relation to an employer for a calendar year
if




(a)

the employer is issued a notice of assessment, reassessment or
additional assessment under the

Income Tax Act

(Canada), and




(b)

an amount relevant in calculating an assessable amount under this Act
for the employer for the calendar year would be changed if an
assessment were made under this Act.




(2)

If this subsection applies in relation to an employer for a calendar
year,




(a)

the employer must, within 90 days of receiving the notice referred to
in subsection (1) (a), file with the commissioner




(i)

a notice, in the form and manner, and containing the information,
required by the commissioner, and




(ii)

any other information or records required by the commissioner to be
filed with the notice, and




(b)

the commissioner may, subject to subsection (3), assess the employer
for an assessable amount for the calendar year, but only to the extent
that the assessment can reasonably be considered as relating to the
assessment, reassessment or additional assessment under the

Income Tax Act

(Canada).




(3)

The commissioner may make an assessment under subsection (2) only
before the later of




(a)

the last day of the normal reassessment period for the calendar year,
and




(b)

the end of the day that is one year after the day that is the earlier
of




(i)

the day that the commissioner is notified under subsection (2) (a),
and




(ii)

the day that the commissioner is otherwise notified of the assessment,
reassessment or additional assessment under the

Income Tax Act

(Canada).






Consequential reassessments after appeal




48

(1)


This section applies in relation to a person if




(a)

a court has, on the disposition of an appeal by the person in respect
of an assessment,




(i)

allowed the appeal,




(ii)

varied the decision from which the appeal was made, or




(iii)

referred the decision back to the commissioner for reconsideration,
and




(b)

any further appeal is disposed of or the time for filing any further
appeal has expired.




(2)

If this section applies in relation to a person, the commissioner must
reassess the person for an assessable amount in accordance with the
decision of the court.






Assessments of other amounts payable




49


The commissioner may at any time assess a person for any amount
payable under section 43
[excess refund]
.






Assessments of penalties and interest




50

(1)


The commissioner may assess a person for a penalty to which the person
is liable under this Act, and any interest payable in relation to the
penalty, but the assessment may not be made after the latest of the
applicable dates by which the commissioner may assess, under the
following provisions, a person in respect of whose liability the
penalty is assessed:




(a)

section 46
[assessments — general rules]
;




(b)

section 47
[consequential assessments — income taxes]
;




(c)

section 48
[consequential reassessments after appeal]
.




(2)

The commissioner may at any time reassess a person




(a)

as is necessary to give effect to a cancellation under section 61
[waiver or cancellation of penalty]
of all or part of a penalty otherwise payable under this Act by the
person, or




(b)

as is necessary to give effect to a cancellation under section 68
[waiver or cancellation of interest]
of all or part of any interest otherwise payable under this Act by the
person.






Rules relating to assessments




51

(1)


Despite a prior assessment, or if no assessment has been made, a
person continues to be liable for an amount owing to the government
under this Act.




(2)

In making an assessment, the commissioner




(a)

is not bound by a tax return filed under this Act or any other
information or records supplied under this Act, and




(b)

may assess an assessable amount despite the filing of a tax return or
the supply of any other information or records under this Act or if no
tax return has been filed.




(3)

Subject to being amended or varied on appeal or by a reassessment, an
assessment is valid and binding despite any error, defect or omission
in the assessment or in procedure.






Notice of assessment




52

(1)


After making an assessment in respect of a person, the commissioner
must give the person a notice of assessment that includes a statement
of the assessable amounts.




(2)

If a notice of assessment has been given to a person as required by
this Act, the assessment is deemed to have been made on the date of
the notice.




(3)

Evidence that a notice of assessment has been given is proof, in the
absence of evidence to the contrary, that the amounts assessed under
this Act are due and owing, and the onus of proving otherwise is on
the person liable to pay the amounts assessed.






Anti-avoidance rule




53

(1)


In this section:



"avoidance transaction"

means a transaction




(a)

that, but for this section, would result, directly or indirectly, in a
tax benefit, or




(b)

that is part of a series of transactions that, but for this section,
would result, directly or indirectly, in a tax benefit,


but does not include a transaction that may reasonably be considered
to have been undertaken or arranged primarily for bona fide purposes
other than to obtain a tax benefit;



"tax benefit"

means a reduction or avoidance of an amount of tax payable under this
Act;



"tax consequences"

, in relation to an employer, means




(a)

the amount of the employer's BC remuneration, or




(b)

any amount, other than an amount referred to in paragraph (a), that is
payable or refundable to the employer under this Act or that is
relevant for the purposes of calculating that amount;



"transaction"

includes an arrangement or event.




(2)

For the purposes of this section, a series of transactions is deemed
to include any related transactions completed in contemplation of the
series.




(3)

If a transaction is an avoidance transaction, the commissioner may, by
assessment, determine the tax consequences to an employer in a manner
that is reasonable in the circumstances in order to deny a tax benefit
that, but for this section, would result, directly or indirectly, from
that transaction or from a series of transactions that includes that
transaction.




(4)

Subsection (3) applies to a transaction only if the transaction may
reasonably be considered to be a transaction that




(a)

would, if this Act were read without reference to this section,
result, directly or indirectly, in a misuse of the provisions of this
Act or the regulations, or




(b)

would result, directly or indirectly, in an abuse having regard to
those provisions, other than this section, read as a whole.




(5)

Without limiting subsection (3), in determining the tax consequences
to an employer in a manner that is reasonable in the circumstances in
order to deny a tax benefit that, but for this section, would result,
directly or indirectly, from an avoidance transaction, the
commissioner may do one or more of the following:




(a)

allow or disallow in whole or in part any amount included or deducted
in calculating an amount referred to in paragraph (a) or (b) of the
definition of "tax consequences" in subsection (1);




(b)

recharacterize the nature of any payment or other amount.




Division 4 — Administrative Penalties





Penalty for failure to file tax return




54


An employer who fails to file a tax return under section 32
[annual return]
, 33
[tax return — bankrupt employer]
or 34
[tax return for part-year permanent establishment]
for a calendar year within the time required under Division 2 of this
Part is liable to a penalty equal to the total of




(a)

5% of the amount remaining unpaid of the employer's tax payable under
this Act for the calendar year on the date the tax return was required
to be filed, and




(b)

the amount determined by the following formula:




amount = 1% × A × B






where


A
=

the amount remaining unpaid of the employer's tax payable under
this Act for the calendar year on the date the tax return was
required to be filed;



B
=

the number of months, not exceeding 12 and rounded down to the
nearest whole number, in the period beginning on the date the
tax return was required to be filed and ending on the earlier of



(i)
the date the tax return was filed, and


(ii)

the date the employer is assessed a penalty under this section.









Penalty for repeated failure to file tax return




55


If all of the following apply:




(a)

an employer fails to file a tax return under section 32, 33 or 34 for
a calendar year within the time required under Division 2 of this
Part;




(b)

the employer subsequently fails to file a tax return under section 37
[tax return on demand]
for the calendar year within the time required under that section;




(c)

the employer was assessed a penalty under section 54 in respect of a
failure to file a tax return referred to in that section for any of
the 3 preceding calendar years,


the employer is liable to a penalty equal to the total of




(d)

10% of the amount remaining unpaid of the employer's tax payable under
this Act for the calendar year on the date the tax return referred to
in paragraph (a) was required to be filed, and




(e)

the amount determined by the following formula:




amount = 2% × A × B






where


A
=

the amount remaining unpaid of the employer's tax payable under
this Act for the calendar year on the date the tax return
referred to in paragraph (a) was required to be filed;



B
=

the number of months, not exceeding 20 and rounded down to the
nearest whole number, in the period beginning on the date the
tax return referred to in paragraph (a) was required to be filed
and ending on the earlier of



(i)
the date the tax return was filed, and


(ii)

the date the employer is assessed a penalty under this section.









Penalty for failure to provide required information




56


If a person who is required to file a tax return fails to include in
the return any required information or fails to file with the return
any other required information or records, the person is liable to a
penalty of $100 for each failure.






Penalties respecting information and records




57

(1)


A person who fails to comply with a provision specified in subsection
(2) is liable, in respect of each failure, to a penalty equal to the
greater of




(a)

$100, and




(b)

$25 for each day during which the failure continues, to a maximum of
$2 500.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1), the following provisions are
specified:




(a)

section 70 (3) (a), (b) or (c)

[production of records and answering questions at specified
location]

;




(b)

section 71
[requirement to provide records]
;




(c)

section 72 (3)
[demand for information]
.






Penalty for interfering with inspection or audit




58


A person who contravenes section 70 (8) (a) or (b)
[interfering with inspection or audit]
is liable to a penalty of $100 for each contravention.






Gross negligence




59

(1)


In this section,
"additional tax"
means the amount by which the tax payable under this Act for the
calendar year calculated on the basis of accurate and complete
information exceeds the tax payable for the calendar year calculated
on the basis of the false statement or omission described in
subsection (2).




(2)

If an employer knowingly, or under circumstances amounting to gross
negligence, makes, or participates in, assents to or acquiesces in the
making of, a false statement or an omission in a tax return, notice,
application or other record filed or supplied or in information
supplied under this Act for a calendar year, the employer is liable to
a penalty equal to the greater of




(a)

$100, and




(b)

50% of the additional tax.






Misrepresentation by third party




60

(1)


Section 163.2 of the

Income Tax Act

(Canada) applies for the purposes of this Act with the changes the
circumstances require for the purposes of this Act.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), in applying section 163.2 of the

Income Tax Act

(Canada) for the purposes of this Act, the following rules apply:




(a)

a reference in that section to the

Income Tax Act

(Canada) is to be read as a reference to this Act;




(b)

a reference in that section to an assessment is to be read as a
reference to an assessment under this Act;




(c)

that section is to be read without reference to the definition of
"excluded activity" in subsection (1) of that section and without
reference to subsections (7) and (8) (b) (i) and (ii) of that section;




(d)

subsection (5) of that section is to be read as if




(i)

the reference to "subsection 163 (2)" were a reference to section 59
(2) of this Act, and




(ii)

the reference to "return filed for the purposes of this Act" were a
reference to "tax return, notice, application or other record filed or
supplied or in information supplied under this Act";




(e)

subsection (10) of that section must be read as if the reference to
"section 163 (3)" were a reference to subsection (3) of this section;




(f)

subsection (15) of that section must be read as if the reference to
"or an employee engaged in an excluded activity" were excluded.




(3)

In an appeal to the Supreme Court under section 76
[appeal to court]
of this Act, the onus is on the minister to establish the facts
justifying the assessment of a penalty to which a person is liable
under this section.






Waiver or cancellation of penalty




61


The commissioner may at any time waive or cancel all or part of any
penalty otherwise payable by a person under this Act.




Division 5 — Interest





Interest on unpaid instalments




62

(1)


If an employer fails to pay an instalment on or before an instalment
due date as required under section 41
[instalments]
, the employer must pay to the government interest on the amount that
is equal to 25% of the lesser of




(a)

the employer's tax payable for the preceding calendar year, and




(b)

the employer's tax payable for the current calendar year.




(2)

An employer who is required to pay an instalment under section 41 for
a calendar year must pay interest under subsection (3) of this section
if the employer pays an instalment on or before an instalment due date
that is less than the amount that is equal to 25% of the lesser of




(a)

the employer's tax payable for the preceding calendar year, and




(b)

the employer's tax payable for the current calendar year.




(3)

An employer who must pay interest under this subsection must pay to
the government interest on the amount by which the amount referred to
in subsection (2) exceeds the instalment paid by the employer.




(4)

Interest payable under subsection (1) or (3) is payable from the
instalment due date until the earlier of




(a)

the date of payment, and




(b)

the date the employer is required to file a tax return for the
calendar year.




(5)

If an employer who must pay interest under this section does not pay
the interest on or before the date referred to in subsection (4) (b),
the employer must pay to the government interest on the amount of
interest unpaid from the day after the date referred to in subsection
(4) (b) until the date of payment.






Interest on unpaid taxes




63


If an employer fails to pay tax as required under section 42
[payment with filed tax return]
, the employer must pay to the government interest on the amount
unpaid from the date the tax was payable under that section until the
date of payment.






Interest on excess refund




64


If an amount is deemed under section 43 (1)
[excess refund]
to be an amount payable by an employer, the employer is liable to pay
interest on the amount from the date the amount became payable under
that section until the date of payment.






Interest on penalties




65


A person must pay to the government interest on a penalty assessed
under this Act as follows:




(a)

in the case of a penalty under section 54
[penalty for failure to file tax return]
, from the date on which the tax return was required to be filed until
the date of payment;




(b)

in the case of a penalty under section 55
[penalty for repeated failure to file tax return]
, from the date on which the tax return referred to in paragraph (a)
of that section was required to be filed until the date of payment;




(c)

in the case of a penalty under section 56
[penalty for failure to provide required information]
, from the date on which the tax return was filed until the date of
payment;




(d)

in the case of a penalty under section 59 (2)
[gross negligence]
, from the date on which the tax return, notice, application or other
record was filed or supplied, or the date on which the information was
supplied, until the date of payment;




(e)

in the case of any other penalty, from the date of the notice of
assessment that specifies the amount of the penalty assessed until the
date of payment.






Calculation of interest




66


Interest payable to the government under this Act must be calculated
at the prescribed rate and in the prescribed manner.






No interest if full payment within 30 days




67


Despite any other provision of this Division, if




(a)

a notice of assessment or statement of account given to a person by
the commissioner specifies an amount that is owing to the government
under this Act by the person, and




(b)

the person, within 30 days after the date of the notice of assessment
or statement of account, pays the amount owing in full,


interest is not payable on the amount owing from the date of the
notice of assessment or statement of account until the date of
payment.






Waiver or cancellation of interest




68


The commissioner may at any time waive or cancel all or part of any
interest otherwise payable under this Act by a person.




Division 6 — Refunds





Refund of overpayment




69

(1)


If the commissioner believes, based on the results from an inspection,
audit, examination or investigation or other information available to
the commissioner, that an overpayment has been made by an employer,
the minister, on the certificate of the commissioner as to facts, must
refund the amount overpaid to the employer from the consolidated
revenue fund.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), if there is an amount owing to the government
under this Act by the employer, the amount overpaid must first be
applied in satisfaction of the amount owing, and notice must be given
to the employer, accompanied by the refund of the amount overpaid and
remaining unapplied.




(3)

Despite subsections (1) and (2), if the amount to be refunded under
subsection (1) or (2) is less than $10, the amount overpaid, and, in
the case of subsection (2), remaining unapplied, is deemed to be zero.




Division 7 — Inspections and Audits





Inspection and audit powers




70

(1)


In this section:


"electronic"
has the same meaning as in the

Electronic Transactions Act

;



"specified location"

means any place




(a)

used by a person in relation to business carried on by the person, or




(b)

where the records of a person are kept.




(2)

Subject to subsection (4), the commissioner may, at any reasonable
time and for any purpose related to the administration and enforcement
of this Act and the regulations,




(a)

enter a specified location,




(b)

inspect, audit and examine records at the specified location,




(c)

make copies of records, and




(d)

subject to subsection (7), remove records from the specified location
for the purpose of making copies.




(3)

A person occupying a specified location must do all of the following,
as applicable:




(a)

produce or provide electronic access to all records as may be required
by the commissioner;




(b)

in the case of records in electronic form, produce or provide
electronic access to the records in the form and manner required by
the commissioner;




(c)

answer all questions of the commissioner relating to the matters
referred to in subsection (2).




(4)

The power to enter a specified location under subsection (2) must not
be used to enter a specified location that is occupied as a residence
without the consent of the occupier except under the authority of a
warrant issued under subsection (5).




(5)

On being satisfied by evidence on oath that entry on or into any place
is necessary for any purpose relevant to the administration and
enforcement of this Act and the regulations, a justice may issue a
warrant authorizing an individual named in the warrant to enter the
place in accordance with the warrant in order to exercise the powers
referred to in subsection (2) (a) to (d).




(6)

The commissioner may make an application for a warrant under
subsection (5) without notice to any other person.




(7)

If the commissioner removes records from a specified location for the
purpose of making copies, the commissioner must return the records
within a reasonable time.




(8)

A person must not




(a)

interfere with, hinder or molest a person doing anything that the
person is authorized to do under this section, or




(b)

prevent or attempt to prevent a person from doing anything that the
person is authorized to do under this section.






Requirement to provide records




71


When required by the commissioner, a person must provide to the
commissioner all records that the commissioner considers necessary to
determine whether this Act and the regulations are being or have been
complied with.






Demand for information




72

(1)


For any purpose related to the administration or enforcement of this
Act or the regulations, the commissioner may, by giving a person a
demand notice, require from the person




(a)

any information or additional information,




(b)

the production of any records, or




(c)

a written statement.




(2)

A demand notice under subsection (1)




(a)

must be given by leaving the demand notice with the person or by
sending the demand notice to the person by registered mail,




(b)

must specify a reasonable time by which the person must comply with
the demand notice, and




(c)

in relation to a requirement under subsection (1) (c), may require the
written statement to be made by way of affidavit or statutory
declaration.




(3)

A person to whom a demand notice is given under this section must
comply with the notice within the time specified in the notice.




(4)

The commissioner may issue a document certifying one or both of the
following, and the document is proof of the facts certified in it:




(a)

a demand notice was given to a person in accordance with subsection
(2);




(b)

a person has failed to comply with subsection (3) in respect of a
demand notice given to the person under this section.






Records required to be kept




73

(1)


An employer must keep adequate records for the purposes of this Act.




(2)

If the records kept by an employer are, in the opinion of the
commissioner, not adequate for the purposes of this Act, the
commissioner may specify one or more of the following in respect of
the records to be kept by the employer:




(a)

the information to be contained in the records;




(b)

the form or manner in which the records are to be kept.




(3)

An employer who is required to keep records under this section must
retain the records for a period of 6 years after the end of the
calendar year to which the records relate.






Evidence — copies of records




74


A record certified by the commissioner to be a copy of a record
obtained by the commissioner under this Act is evidence of the nature
and content of the original.




Part 4 — Appeals





Appeal to minister




75

(1)


Subject to this section, an appeal to the minister lies from




(a)

an assessment, and




(b)

a determination under section 84 (13)
[lien — associated corporations]
.




(2)

Written notice of the appeal must be given to the minister within 90
days after the date of the notice of assessment or the determination,
as the case may be.




(3)

The appellant must set out in the notice of appeal a statement of all
material facts and the reasons in support of the appeal.




(4)

On receiving the notice of appeal, the minister must




(a)

consider the matter,




(b)

affirm, amend or change the assessment or determination, as the case
may be, and




(c)

promptly give the appellant written notice of the result of the
appeal.




(5)

An appeal may not be made under this section in relation to an
assessment made under any of the following provisions:




(a)

section 49
[assessments of other amounts payable]
;




(b)

section 50 (2)
[assessments of penalties and interest]
.




(6)

The minister may, in writing, delegate any of the minister's powers or
duties under this section.




(7)

A delegation under subsection (6) may be to a named person or to a
class of persons.






Notice of appeal




75.1

(1)


The date on which a notice of appeal is given to the minister under
section 75 (2) is the date it is received by the minister.




(2)

A notice of appeal is conclusively deemed to have been given to the
minister if it is received at a location and by a method specified by
the minister.






Appeal to court




76

(1)


A decision of the minister under section 75 may be appealed to the
Supreme Court by way of a petition proceeding.




(2)

The Supreme Court Civil Rules relating to petition proceedings, other
than Rule 18-3, apply to appeals under this section.




(3)

A petition must be filed in the court registry within 90 days after
the date of the minister's decision.




(4)

In a petition filed under this section, the government must be
designated "Her Majesty the Queen in right of the Province of British
Columbia".




(5)

Within 14 days after the filing of a petition under this section, the
petition must be served on the government in accordance with section 8
of the

Crown Proceeding Act

.




(6)

An appeal under this section is a new hearing that is not limited to
the evidence and issues that were before the minister.




(7)

The court may




(a)

dismiss the appeal,




(b)

allow the appeal,




(c)

vary the decision from which the appeal is made, or




(d)

refer the decision back to the commissioner for reconsideration.




(8)

[Repealed 2021-18-16.]






Irregularities




77


An assessment made under this Act must not be varied or disallowed by
a court because of an irregularity, informality, omission or error on
the part of a person in the observation of any directory provision up
to the date of the notice of assessment.






Tax collection not affected by pending appeal




78


Neither the giving of a notice of appeal by a person nor a delay in
the hearing of an appeal




(a)

affects the date an amount that is owing to the government under this
Act and that is the subject matter of the appeal is payable under this
Act,




(b)

affects the amount of interest payable on an amount that is owing to
the government under this Act and that is the subject matter of the
appeal, or




(c)

delays the collection of an amount that is owing to the government
under this Act and that is the subject matter of the appeal, or any
interest payable under this Act on that amount.






If decision set aside or amount reduced on appeal




79


If the commissioner's or minister's decision is set aside, or the
amount of an assessment or an amount owing to the government under
this Act is reduced on appeal, the minister must refund the amount or
excess amount paid to the appellant from the consolidated revenue
fund.




Part 5 — Recovery of Amounts Owing





Court proceedings to recover amount owing




80


The government may commence a proceeding in a court of competent
jurisdiction to recover an amount owing to the government under this
Act as a debt due to the government.






Summary proceedings




81

(1)


If a person fails to pay an amount owing to the government under this
Act, the commissioner may issue a certificate specifying the amount
owed and the name of the person who owes it.




(2)

The commissioner may file with the Supreme Court a certificate issued
under subsection (1).




(3)

A certificate filed under subsection (2) has the same force and
effect, and all proceedings may be taken on the certificate, as if it
were a judgment of the court in favour of the government for the
recovery of a debt in the amount specified in the certificate against
the person named in the certificate.




(4)

If the amount specified in a certificate is different from the actual
amount owing to the government under this Act, the commissioner may
correct the amount by issuing a new certificate specifying the revised
amount owed and the name of the person who owes it.




(5)

The commissioner may file with the Supreme Court a certificate issued
under subsection (4).




(6)

A certificate filed under subsection (5)




(a)

revises the certificate filed under subsection (2) that names the same
person,




(b)

is deemed to be filed at the same time as the certificate it revises,
and




(c)

has the same force and effect, and all proceedings may be taken on the
certificate, as if it were a judgment of the court in favour of the
government for the recovery of a debt in the amount specified in the
certificate against the person named in the certificate.






Alternative remedies




82

(1)


Remedies available to the government for the recovery of an amount
owing to the government under this Act may be exercised separately,
concurrently or cumulatively.




(2)

The liability of a person for the payment of an amount owing to the
government under this Act is not affected by a fine or penalty imposed
on or paid by the person for contravention of this Act.






Attachment of funds




83

(1)


In this section,
"debtor"
means any person who is liable to pay an amount under this Act.




(2)

If the commissioner knows or suspects that a person is or is about to
become indebted or liable to make a payment to a debtor, the
commissioner may demand that that person pay to the government, on
account of the debtor's liability under this Act, all or part of the
money otherwise payable to the debtor.




(3)

Without limiting subsection (2), if the commissioner knows or suspects
that a person is about to advance money to or make a payment on behalf
of a debtor, or make a payment in respect of a negotiable instrument
issued by a debtor, the commissioner may demand that that person pay
to the government, on account of the debtor's liability under this
Act, the money that would otherwise be advanced or paid.




(4)

A demand under this section must be given by leaving the demand with
the person or by sending the demand to the person by registered mail,
electronic mail or fax.




(5)

If under this section the commissioner demands that a person pay to
the government, on account of a debtor's liability under this Act,
money otherwise payable by that person to the debtor as interest,
rent, remuneration, a dividend, an annuity or other periodic payment,
the demand




(a)

is applicable to all of those payments to be made by the person to the
debtor until the liability under this Act is satisfied, and




(b)

operates to require payments to the government out of each payment of
the amount stipulated by the commissioner in the demand.




(6)

Money or a beneficial interest in money in a savings institution




(a)

on deposit to the credit of a debtor at the time a demand is given, or




(b)

deposited to the credit of a debtor after a demand is given


is money for which the savings institution is indebted to the debtor
within the meaning of this section, but money on deposit or deposited
to the credit of a debtor as described in paragraph (a) or (b) does
not include money on deposit or deposited to the credit of a debtor in
the debtor's capacity as a trustee.




(7)

A demand under this section continues in effect until the earliest of
the following:




(a)

subject to paragraphs (b) and (c), the demand is satisfied;




(b)

subject to paragraph (c), 90 days after the demand is given;




(c)

3 years after the demand is given, if the demand is made in respect of
an outstanding legal claim or insurance claim that, if resolved in the
debtor's favour, will result in money becoming available to the
debtor.




(8)

Despite subsection (7), if a demand is made in respect of a periodic
payment referred to in subsection (5), the demand continues in effect
until it is satisfied unless no periodic payment is made or is liable
to be made within 90 days after the demand is given, in which case the
demand ceases to have effect at the end of that period.




(9)

Money demanded from a person by the commissioner under this section
becomes payable




(a)

as soon as the person is given the demand, if that person is indebted
or liable to make a payment to the debtor at the time the demand is
given, or




(b)

as soon as the person becomes indebted or liable to make a payment to
the debtor, in any other case.




(10)

A person who fails to comply with a demand under subsection (2) or (5)
is liable to pay to the government an amount equal to the amount that
the person was required to pay under subsection (2) or (5).




(11)

A person who fails to comply with a demand under subsection (3) is
liable to pay to the government an amount equal to the lesser of




(a)

the total of the money advanced or paid, and




(b)

the amount that the person was required to pay under subsection (3).




(12)

Money paid by any person to the government in compliance with a demand
under this section




(a)

satisfies the original liability to the extent of the payment, and




(b)

is deemed to have been paid by that person to the debtor.






Lien




84

(1)


In this section:



"amount owing"

means an amount owing to the government under this Act and any
interest on that amount;



"associated corporation"

includes a corporation that is determined under subsection (13) to be
associated with another corporation for the purposes of this section;


"collateral"
has the same meaning as in the

Personal Property Security Act

;



"financing statement"

has the same meaning as in the

Personal Property Security Act

;


"inventory"
has the same meaning as in the

Personal Property Security Act

;



"personal property registry"

means the registry under the

Personal Property Security Act

;


"proceeds"
has the same meaning as in the

Personal Property Security Act

;


"property"
, when referring to the property of an associated corporation or a
related individual, means property that is used in, or in conjunction
with, the business in respect of which the amount referred to in
subsection (2) is required to be levied and remitted;



"purchase money security interest"

has the same meaning as in the

Personal Property Security Act

;



"related individual"

has the same meaning as in the

Property Transfer Tax Act

;



"security interest"

has the same meaning as in the

Personal Property Security Act

.




(2)

If a person is required to pay an amount to the government under this
Act and does not pay the amount, the commissioner may register a lien




(a)

against the real property of




(i)

the person,




(ii)

an associated corporation of the person, or




(iii)

a related individual of the person


by registering a certificate of lien in the prescribed form in the
appropriate land title office in the same manner that a charge is
registered under the

Land Title Act

, and




(b)

against the personal property of




(i)

the person,




(ii)

an associated corporation of the person, or




(iii)

a related individual of the person


by registering a financing statement in the personal property
registry.




(3)

On registration of a certificate of lien against the real property of
a person under subsection (2) (a), a lien is created on the real
property against which the lien is registered for the amount owing.




(4)

On registration of a lien against the personal property of a person
under subsection (2) (b), a lien is created on the present and after
acquired personal property in which the person has a legal or
equitable interest for the amount owing.




(5)

A lien registered under subsection (2) (b) against personal property
does not have priority over




(a)

a security interest that secures unpaid wages under section 87 (3)
[lien for unpaid wages]
of the

Employment Standards Act

, regardless of when that security interest arises, or




(b)

a purchase money security interest in collateral other than collateral
that at the time the purchase money security interest attaches is
inventory or its proceeds.




(6)

In relation to a certificate of lien registered under subsection (2)
(a) against the real property of a person, the commissioner may
register a certificate of lien in the form prescribed for the purposes
of subsection (2) (a) in the appropriate land title office in the same
manner that a charge is registered under the

Land Title Act

if




(a)

the certificate of lien registered under subsection (2) (a) against
the real property of the person contains a statement of the amount
owing, and




(b)

the commissioner is satisfied that the amount referred to in paragraph
(a) of this subsection that is stated in that certificate of lien is
incorrect.




(7)

In relation to a financing statement registered under subsection (2)
(b) against the personal property of a person, the commissioner may
register a financing change statement, as defined in the

Personal Property Security Act

, in the personal property registry if




(a)

the financing statement registered under subsection (2) (b) against
the personal property of the person contains a statement of the amount
owing, and




(b)

the commissioner is satisfied that the amount referred to in paragraph
(a) of this subsection that is stated in that financing statement is
incorrect.




(8)

A certificate of lien registered under subsection (6) and a financing
change statement registered under subsection (7) must contain a
revised statement of the amount owing.




(9)

On registration of a certificate of lien against the real property of
a person under subsection (6), the certificate of lien registered
under subsection (2) (a) against the real property of the person is,
at the same time it was originally registered, deemed to be revised to
set out the amount owing as stated in the certificate of lien
registered under subsection (6).




(10)

On registration of a financing change statement against the personal
property of a person under subsection (7), the financing statement
registered under subsection (2) (b) against the personal property of
the person is, at the same time it was originally registered, deemed
to be revised to set out the amount owing as stated in the financing
change statement registered under subsection (7).




(11)

Despite section 90
[communication of information]
, the commissioner must,




(a)

on the oral or written request of a person, disclose in writing the
amount of the lien under this section registered against the personal
or real property of the person, or




(b)

on the written request of a person accompanied by the written consent
of a named person, disclose in writing the amount of the lien under
this section registered against the personal or real property of the
named person.




(12)

If the commissioner believes that one corporation is associated with
another corporation within the meaning of section 256 of the

Income Tax Act

(Canada), the commissioner may request one or both of the corporations
to provide to the commissioner the records and information required by
the commissioner to confirm or rebut that belief.




(13)

The commissioner may determine that corporations are associated
corporations for the purposes of this section if




(a)

a corporation that has been requested to provide records or
information to the commissioner under subsection (12) fails or refuses
to comply with that request within a period of time considered by the
commissioner to be reasonable in the circumstances, or




(b)

the records or information provided to the commissioner under this
section confirm the commissioner's belief that the corporations are
associated.




(14)

Immediately after a corporation is determined under this section to be
associated with a person referred to in subsection (2) (a) (i) and (b)
(i), the commissioner




(a)

must notify the corporation of this in writing, and




(b)

may register a lien under this section against the real and personal
property of the corporation.




(15)

The commissioner may seize personal property against which a lien is
registered under subsection (14) (b) at any time after the
registration of the lien, but must not take any action to realize on
those assets until the later of




(a)

the date that is 90 days after the date on which the notice required
under subsection (14) (a) was given to the corporation, and




(b)

if a notice of appeal is given to the minister in respect of the
determination within the time provided by section 75 (2)
[appeal to minister]
, the date on which the minister upholds the determination under that
appeal.




(16)

If, at any time, the commissioner becomes convinced that the
corporations were not associated within the meaning of section 256 of
the

Income Tax Act

(Canada) at the time that the lien was registered under subsection
(14) (b) of this section or if the minister or a court of competent
jurisdiction upholds the corporation's appeal against the
commissioner's determination on the basis that the corporations were
not associated at the time that the lien was registered, the
commissioner must,




(a)

if the commissioner has not realized on any of the assets against
which the lien was registered, promptly release the lien, and




(b)

if the commissioner has realized on some or all of the assets against
which the lien was registered, promptly release the lien against the
remaining assets and pay the proceeds realized from the sale of the
realized assets minus any costs or expenses incurred in the sale




(i)

to the corporation, or




(ii)

if the commissioner considers it appropriate to do so, into the
Supreme Court under Rule 10-3 of the Supreme Court Civil Rules.




(17)

The release of the lien under subsection (16) (a) or the release of
the lien and payment of the applicable net sale proceeds under
subsection (16) (b) is deemed to be full satisfaction of all claims
any person, including the corporation, might have arising out of or in
any way connected with the determination made under subsection (13),
the registration of the lien or the seizure or sale of any or all of
the assets against which the lien was registered.






Responsibility of person having control of property




85

(1)


In this section,
"secured party"
has the same meaning as in the

Personal Property Security Act

.




(2)

This section applies to a person who, as assignee, liquidator,
administrator, receiver, receiver manager, trustee, secured party or
similar person, other than a trustee appointed under the

Bankruptcy and Insolvency Act

(Canada), takes control or possession of the property of a person who
has an amount owing to the government under this Act.




(3)

Before distributing the proceeds from the realization of the property
referred to in subsection (2), a person to whom this section applies
must obtain from the commissioner a certificate that the amount that
constituted a lien under section 84 has been paid.




(4)

If a person to whom this section applies distributes the proceeds from
the realization of the property referred to in subsection (2) without
having obtained the certificate required by subsection (3), the person
is personally liable to the government for an amount equal to the
amount required to be paid to obtain the certificate.




(5)

An amount payable under subsection (4) in respect of a distribution of
the proceeds from the realization of property must be paid on or
before the last day of the month after the month in which the
disposition occurred.






Notice of enforcement proceedings




86

(1)


Before taking proceedings for the recovery of an amount owing to the
government under this Act, the commissioner must give to the person
who owes the amount notice of the commissioner's intention to enforce
payment.




(2)

Failure to give notice under subsection (1) does not affect the
validity of proceedings taken for the recovery of an amount owing to
the government under this Act.






Limitation period




87

(1)


In this section,
"collection proceeding"
means




(a)

a proceeding for the recovery of an amount owing to the government
under section 80,




(b)

the filing of a certificate under section 81,




(c)

the making of a demand under section 83, and




(d)

the registration or enforcement of a lien under section 84.




(2)

A collection proceeding may be commenced at any time within 7 years
after the date of the notice of assessment for the amount claimed in
the collection proceeding.




(3)

Despite subsection (2), a collection proceeding that relates to a
contravention of this Act or the regulations and that involves wilful
default or fraud may be commenced at any time.




(4)

If, before the expiry of the limitation period that applies under
subsection (2) to an amount claimed, a person acknowledges liability
in respect of the amount claimed, the date of the notice of assessment
is deemed to be the day on which the acknowledgement is made.




(5)

Subsection (4) does not apply to an acknowledgement, other than an
acknowledgement referred to in subsection (6), unless the
acknowledgement is




(a)

in writing,




(b)

signed, by hand or by electronic signature within the meaning of the

Electronic Transactions Act

,




(c)

made by the person making the acknowledgement or the person's agent,
and




(d)

made to the government or an agent of the government.




(6)

In the case of an amount claimed to which the limitation period under
subsection (2) applies, for the purposes of subsection (4), part
payment of the amount by the person against whom the claim is or may
be made or by the person's agent is an acknowledgement by the person
against whom the claim is or may be made of liability in respect of
the claim.




(7)

Section 24 (2), (4) and (10) of the

Limitation Act

applies for the purposes of this section.




(8)

The liability of a person for the payment of an amount owing to the
government under this Act is not affected by the expiry of the
limitation period that applies under subsection (2) to the amount
claimed.




Part 6 — General





Designation of commissioner




88


The minister may designate a person who is appointed under the

Public Service Act

as commissioner to administer this Act.






Delegation




89

(1)


The commissioner may, in writing, delegate any of the commissioner's
powers or duties under this Act.




(2)

A delegation under subsection (1) may be to a named person or to a
class of persons.






Communication of information




90

(1)


In this section:



"authorized person"

means a person who is engaged or employed, or who was formerly engaged
or employed, by or on behalf of the government of British Columbia to
assist in carrying out the provisions of this Act;



"finance minister"

means the member of the Executive Council charged with the
administration of the

Financial Administration Act

;


"official"
means any person




(a)

who is employed in the service of, who occupies a position of
responsibility in the service of or who is engaged by or on behalf of
the government of British Columbia, another province or Canada, or




(b)

who was formerly so employed or formerly occupied such a position or
was formerly so engaged;



"police officer"

means a police officer as defined in section 462.48 (17) of the

Criminal Code

;


"taxpayer"
means an employer that is subject to tax under this Act, whether or
not the employer is liable to pay tax;



"taxpayer information"

means information of any kind and in any form relating to one or more
taxpayers




(a)

that is obtained for the purposes of this Act by or on behalf of the
minister, or




(b)

that is prepared from information referred to in paragraph (a),


but does not include information that does not directly or indirectly
reveal the identity of the taxpayer to whom the information relates.




(2)

Despite any other enactment or law, except as authorized by this
section an official must not




(a)

knowingly provide, or knowingly allow to be provided, to any person
any taxpayer information,




(b)

knowingly allow any person to have access to any taxpayer information,
or




(c)

knowingly use any taxpayer information otherwise than in the course of
the administration and enforcement of this Act or for a purpose for
which the information was provided under this section.




(3)

Despite any other enactment or law, an official must not be required,
in connection with any legal proceedings, to give or produce evidence
relating to any taxpayer information.




(4)

Subsections (2) and (3) do not apply in respect of legal proceedings
referred to in section 241 (3) of the

Income Tax Act

(Canada).




(5)

Subject to subsection (6), an official may do one or more of the
following:




(a)

provide to any person taxpayer information that can reasonably be
considered necessary for the purposes of the administration or
enforcement of this Act, solely for those purposes;




(b)

provide to any person taxpayer information that can reasonably be
considered necessary for the purposes of determining




(i)

any tax, interest, penalty or other amount that is or may become
payable by the person under this Act,




(ii)

any refund to which the person is or may become entitled under this
Act, or




(iii)

any other amount that is relevant for the purposes of a determination
under subparagraph (i) or (ii);




(c)

provide taxpayer information as follows:




(i)

to an official of the Department of Finance of the Government of
Canada solely for the purposes of the formulation or evaluation of
fiscal policy;




(ii)

to an official solely for the purposes of the initial implementation
of a fiscal policy or for the purposes of the administration or
enforcement of an Act of the Parliament of Canada that provides for
the imposition and collection of a tax or duty;




(iii)

to an official solely for the purposes of the administration or
enforcement of an enactment of British Columbia or another province
that provides for the imposition or collection of a tax or duty;




(iv)

to an official solely for the purposes of the administration or
enforcement of the

Workers Compensation Act

;




(v)

to an official of the ministry of the finance minister solely for the
purposes of the formulation or evaluation of fiscal policy;




(vi)

to an official solely for the purposes of setting off against any sum
of money that may be due or payable by the government of British
Columbia a debt due to that government or to the government of another
province or of Canada;




(d)

provide taxpayer information, or allow the inspection of or access to
taxpayer information, as the case may be, under, and solely for the
purposes of,




(i)

sections 44 (1)

[powers of commissioner in conducting investigations, audits or
inquiries]

and 61 (1)
[powers, duties and protections of adjudicator]
of the

Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act

, or




(ii)

sections 15
[staff in government or government organizations]
, 16
[access to information, documents or things]
and 17
[summons and requests]
of the

Auditor General Act

;




(e)

provide taxpayer information solely for the purposes of sections 17 to
19

[write off of assets and uncollectable debts; extinguishment of
debts; remissions]

of the

Financial Administration Act

;




(f)

use taxpayer information to compile information in a form that does
not directly or indirectly reveal the identity of the taxpayer to whom
the information relates;




(g)

use, or provide to any person, taxpayer information solely for a
purpose relating to the supervision, evaluation or discipline of an
authorized person by the government in respect of a period during
which the authorized person was employed by, or engaged by or on
behalf of, the government to assist in the administration or
enforcement of this Act, to the extent that the information is
relevant for the purpose;




(h)

use taxpayer information relating to a taxpayer to provide information
to the taxpayer;




(i)

provide taxpayer information to a police officer solely for the
purpose of investigating whether an offence has been committed under
the

Criminal Code

, or the laying of an information or the preferring of an indictment,
if




(i)

the taxpayer information can reasonably be considered necessary for
the purpose of ascertaining




(A)

the circumstances in which an offence under the

Criminal Code

may have been committed, or




(B)

the identity of the person who may have committed an offence,


with respect to an official, or with respect to any person related to
that official,




(ii)

the official was or is engaged in the administration or enforcement of
this Act, and




(iii)

the offence can reasonably be considered to be related to that
administration or enforcement;




(j)

provide taxpayer information to, or allow inspection of or access to
taxpayer information by, any person otherwise legally entitled to the
information under a prescribed enactment of British Columbia solely
for the purposes for which that person is entitled to that
information.




(6)

Except in accordance with an agreement entered into under section 91,
an official must not, under subsection (5) (a) to (c) or (e) to (j) of
this section, provide taxpayer information to, or allow inspection of
or access to taxpayer information by, an official of




(a)

a public body, as defined in the

Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act

, other than the ministry of the minister or, under subsection (5) (c)
(v) of this section, the ministry of the finance minister,




(b)

the government of Canada, or




(c)

the government of another province.




(7)

Section 241 (3.1), (4.1) and (5) of the

Income Tax Act

(Canada) applies for the purposes of this Act.




(8)

In applying section 241 of the

Income Tax Act

(Canada),




(a)

the reference to "the Minister" in subsection (3.1) of that section is
to be read as a reference to the minister responsible for this Act,




(b)

the reference to "authorized person" in subsection (4.1) of that
section is to be read as a reference to "authorized person" within the
meaning of this section, and




(c)

the reference to "official" in subsection (5) of that section is to be
read as a reference to official within the meaning of this section.




(9)

To the extent of any inconsistency or conflict with sections 32
[use of personal information]
and 33
[disclosure of personal information]
of the

Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act

, this section applies despite that Act.






Information-sharing agreements




91

(1)


In this section:



"information-sharing agreement"

means an agreement or arrangement to exchange, by electronic data
transmission, electronic data matching or any other means, information
for a purpose described in section 90 (5);



"taxpayer information"

has the same meaning as in section 90.




(2)

The minister may enter into an information-sharing agreement with




(a)

the government of Canada or an agency of that government,




(b)

the government of a province or other jurisdiction in Canada or an
agency of that government, or




(c)

a public body as defined in the

Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act

.




(3)

Subject to subsection (4), taxpayer information obtained by the
minister under an information-sharing agreement may only be used or
disclosed for the purpose for which it was obtained under the
applicable agreement.




(4)

Subsection (3) does not prevent




(a)

any taxpayer information obtained by the minister under an
information-sharing agreement with the government of Canada or an
agency of that government from being used or disclosed for the purpose
of administering and enforcing an enactment administered by the
minister that provides for the imposition and collection of a tax, or




(b)

any taxpayer information obtained by the minister under an
information-sharing agreement from being used or disclosed for the
purpose of administering and enforcing an Act of the Parliament of
Canada that provides for the imposition and collection of a tax or
duty.




(5)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may prescribe terms and conditions
that are to be included in the information-sharing agreements entered
into by the minister.






How and when documents are given by commissioner




92

(1)


Subject to this Act, if, under this Act, a document must or may be
given by the commissioner to a person, the document may be given in
accordance with subsection (2).




(2)

The commissioner may give a document to a person as follows:




(a)

if the person is an individual, by leaving the document with the
individual;




(b)

if the person is a corporation, by leaving the document with a board
member or senior officer of the corporation;




(c)

if the person is an extraprovincial corporation, by leaving the
document with




(i)

a person referred to in paragraph (b), or




(ii)

an attorney for the extraprovincial corporation;




(d)

if the person is a partnership, by leaving the document with an
individual who is a member of the partnership;




(e)

by leaving the document with a person apparently employed at the place
of business of the person;




(f)

by sending the document by ordinary mail or registered mail to the
last known address of the person according to the records of the
commissioner;




(g)

by sending the document by electronic mail to the last known
electronic mail address of the person according to the records of the
commissioner;




(h)

by sending the document by fax to the last known fax number of the
person according to the records of the commissioner;




(i)

by sending the document by another communication method agreed to by
the person and the commissioner.




(3)

If a person carries on business under a name or style other than the
person's own name or style, a document to be given in accordance with
this section may be addressed to the name or style under which the
person carries on business.




(4)

A document sent by ordinary mail, registered mail, electronic mail,
fax or a communication method referred to in subsection (2) (i) is
conclusively deemed to have been given on the date the document was
sent.




(5)

Despite subsection (4), if a notice of assessment is sent by ordinary
mail, registered mail or electronic mail, the notice, for the purposes
of this Act, is deemed to have been given on the date of that notice.




(6)

For the purposes of this Act, the date of a notice given by the
commissioner is the date stated on the notice.






Proof of compliance




93


In a prosecution or any proceeding for any matter arising under this
Act, the facts necessary to establish compliance on the part of the
commissioner with section 92 may be sufficiently proved in any court
by the production of an affidavit of the commissioner setting out the
facts.






Proof of receipt




94

(1)


Proof of the receipt by a person of a document to which section 92
applies may be established in any court by showing that the document
was given in accordance with that section.




(2)

A person seeking to establish that a document referred to in
subsection (1) was not received by the person bears the burden of
establishing that fact.






How and when documents are given by minister




95


If, under this Act, a document must or may be given by the minister to
a person,




(a)

the document may be given in accordance with section 92 (2), and




(b)

if the document is given in accordance with that section, the document
is conclusively deemed to have been given on the date of that
document.






Electronic payment




96


A person required to pay an amount to the government under this Act
must pay the amount electronically in the manner required by the
commissioner.






When payment is received




97


If, under this Act, an amount must or may be paid to the government,
the amount is conclusively deemed to be paid on the date it is
received by the government.






When documents are filed with or given to commissioner




98

(1)


If, under this Act, a document must or may be filed with or given to
the commissioner, the document is conclusively deemed to be filed or
given on the date it is received by the commissioner.




(2)

[Repealed 2022-11-15.]




Part 7 — Offences





General offences




99


A person who does any of the following commits an offence:




(a)

makes, or participates in, assents to or acquiesces in the making of,
a false or deceptive statement in a tax return, notice, application or
other record required to be filed or given under this Act;




(b)

destroys, alters, mutilates, hides or otherwise disposes of a record
to evade payment of an amount to be paid to the government under this
Act;




(c)

makes, or participates in, assents to or acquiesces in the making of,
a false or deceptive entry in a record related to an amount to be paid
to the government under this Act;




(d)

omits, or participates in, assents to or acquiesces in the omission
of, a material particular in a record required to be kept under this
Act;




(e)

makes or uses, or participates in, assents to or acquiesces in the
making or use of, a record in a false or deceptive manner in order to
obtain a tax benefit;




(f)

wilfully, in any manner, evades or attempts to evade payment of tax
payable under this Act;




(g)

conspires with any person to do anything described in paragraphs (a)
to (f).






Penalties




100

(1)


An individual who commits an offence under section 99 is liable to




(a)

a fine of not less than 50% and not more than 200% of the amount of
tax that was sought to be evaded,




(b)

imprisonment for not more than 2 years, or




(c)

both the fine and imprisonment referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b)
of this subsection.




(2)

A corporation that commits an offence under section 99 is liable to a
fine of not less than 50% and not more than 200% of the amount of tax
that was sought to be evaded.






Offences for failure to provide records or information required by
commissioner or for interference




101

(1)


A person commits an offence if the person contravenes any of the
following provisions:




(a)

section 70 (3) (a), (b) or (c)

[production of records and answering questions at specified
location]

;




(b)

section 70 (8) (a) or (b)
[interfering with inspection or audit]
;




(c)

section 71
[requirement to provide records]
;




(d)

section 72 (3)
[demand for information]
.




(2)

An individual who commits an offence under subsection (1) is liable to




(a)

a fine of not more than $100 000,




(b)

imprisonment for not more than 12 months, or




(c)

both the fine and imprisonment referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b)
of this subsection.




(3)

A corporation that commits an offence under subsection (1) is liable
to a fine of not more than $100 000.






Offences in relation to confidential information




102

(1)


A person commits an offence if




(a)

the person contravenes section 90 (2)
[communication of information]
, or




(b)

the person knowingly contravenes an order made under section 241 (4.1)
of the

Income Tax Act

(Canada) as that section applies for the purposes of this Act.




(2)

A person




(a)

to whom taxpayer information has been provided for a particular
purpose under section 90 (5) (b), (d), (g) or (j), or




(b)

who is an official to whom taxpayer information has been provided for
a particular purpose under section 90 (5) (a), (c) or (e)


and who for any other purpose knowingly uses, provides to any person,
allows the provision to any person of or allows access to that
information commits an offence.




(3)

An individual who commits an offence under subsection (1) or (2) is
liable to




(a)

a fine of not more than $5 000,




(b)

imprisonment for not more than 12 months, or




(c)

both the fine and imprisonment referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b)
of this subsection.




(4)

A corporation that commits an offence under subsection (1) or (2) is
liable to a fine of not more than $5 000.






Offence by corporation




103

(1)


If a corporation commits an offence under this Act, an employee,
officer, director or agent of the corporation who authorized,
permitted or acquiesced in the offence also commits that offence,
whether or not the corporation is prosecuted for the offence.




(2)

In a prosecution for an offence under this Act, it is sufficient proof
of the offence to establish that it was committed by an employee,
officer, director or agent of the defendant, whether or not the
employee, officer, director or agent is identified or has been
prosecuted for the offence.




(3)

Subsection (2) does not apply if the defendant establishes that the
defendant exercised due diligence to prevent the commission of the
offence.






Limitation period for prosecution




104


The time limit for laying an information for an offence under this Act
is 6 years after the date when the act or omission that is alleged to
constitute the offence occurred.






Section 5 of
Offence Act




105


Section 5
[general offence]
of the

Offence Act

does not apply to this Act or the regulations.




Part 8 — Regulations





General regulation-making authority




106

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
section 41 of the

Interpretation Act

.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations respecting any matter for which regulations are
contemplated by this Act.




(3)

The authority to make regulations under another provision of this Act
does not limit subsection (1) or (2).




(4)

In making a regulation under this Act, the Lieutenant Governor in
Council may do one or more of the following:




(a)

delegate a matter to a person;




(b)

confer a discretion on a person;




(c)

make different regulations for different persons, places, things,
circumstances or transactions, or for different classes of persons,
places, things, circumstances or transactions;




(d)

establish or define classes of persons, places, things, circumstances
or transactions.






Other regulations




107


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations as follows:




(a)

prescribing classes of organizations for the purposes of paragraph (d)
of the definition of "charitable or non-profit employer" in section 1
[definitions]
;




(b)

prescribing an amount for the purposes of section 41
[instalments]
;




(c)

prescribing interest rates and the manner of calculating interest for
the purposes of this Act.






Retroactive regulations




107.01


A regulation made in respect of Part 2.1
[Increased Employment Credit]
may be made retroactive to March 30, 2021 or a later date, and if made
retroactive is deemed to have come into force on the specified date.




Part 9 — Transitional Provisions and Amendments to This Act



Division 1 — Transitional Provisions





Instalments and interest — 2019 calendar year




108


Despite sections 41
[instalments]
and 62
[interest on unpaid instalments]
, for the purposes of applying those sections to an employer in the
2019 calendar year, the employer's tax payable for the 2018 calendar
year is deemed to be equal to the amount of tax that would have been
payable by that employer for that calendar year if this Act and the
regulations had come into force on January 1, 2018.






Registration — 2019 calendar year




109


Despite section 31
[registration]
but subject to section 108, if an employer is required to pay an
amount under section 41
[instalments]
on or before June 15, 2019, the employer must apply to be registered
under section 31 (1) on or before May 15, 2019.






Repealed




110


[Repealed 2018-42-110 (4).]




Division 2 — Amendments to This Act



Amendments to this Act









[Note: See Table of Legislative Changes for the status of sections
111 to 117.]









Section(s)





Affected Act






111-117





Budget Measures Implementation (Employer Health Tax) Act, 2018










Commencement




118


The provisions of this Act referred to in column 1 of the following
table come into force as set out in column 2 of the table:




Item

Column 1

Provisions of Act


Column 2

Commencement





1

Anything not elsewhere covered by this table

The date of Royal Assent


2
Sections 1 to 110
January 1, 2019


3
Sections 112 to 117

By regulation of the Lieutenant Governor in Council







