




Flood Relief Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 151






Authority for flood control measures




1


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may




(a)

enter into agreements with any public authority in British Columbia
for relief and rehabilitation because of flood conditions or other
circumstances attributable to them;




(b)

contribute or lend to a public authority a proportion of the cost of
measures undertaken by the public authority with the approval of the
Lieutenant Governor in Council for relief or rehabilitation in flood
areas;




(c)

enter into agreements with Canada for payment of a portion of the cost
incurred by British Columbia, by municipal authorities in the Fraser
Valley and by departments and agencies of Canada in repairing,
strengthening, constructing and reconstructing dikes in the valley on
the basis that Canada bears 75% of the cost.






Municipal powers




2

(1)


A municipality located in an area in British Columbia defined as a
flood relief area by the Lieutenant Governor in Council may




(a)

enter into an agreement with British Columbia approved by the
Lieutenant Governor in Council,




(b)

do all things necessary for or incidental to carrying out the
agreement,




(c)

defray the costs of the agreement as part of the ordinary expenditures
of the municipality or from money borrowed for the agreement, and




(d)

initiate, undertake and execute any work or undertaking within the
scope of any agreement entered into by the municipality under this
Act.




(2)

Subsection (1) applies despite any other Act and although the
municipality may not have submitted the matter to or obtained the
approval of the electors of the municipality.






Boards for flood areas




3

(1)


For flood areas, the Lieutenant Governor in Council may do any of the
following:




(a)

establish and name boards considered necessary;




(b)

confer on a board powers necessary to carry out this Act;




(c)

appoint persons to a board and set their remuneration.




(2)

A board is a corporation and an agent of the government.




(3)

A board may appoint required employees and set and pay their
remuneration.




(4)

The members of a board hold office during pleasure.




(5)

The employees hold office during the pleasure of the board.






Report and audit




4

(1)


A board must submit a report of its transactions to and at the times
required by the Lieutenant Governor in Council.




(2)

Unless the Auditor General is appointed in accordance with the

Auditor General Act

as the auditor of the board, the Lieutenant Governor in Council must
appoint an auditor to audit the accounts of the board at least once
each year.






Repealed




5


[Repealed 2003-22-8.]






Power to direct payment




6


In addition to all other money to be spent under any other Act, the
Lieutenant Governor in Council may direct that money required for the
purposes of this Act and to pay all costs of the administration of
this Act be expended from the consolidated revenue fund.






Power to make regulations




7

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
sectionÂ 41 of the

Interpretation Act

.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations as follows:




(a)

prescribing the duties and functions of a board;




(b)

prescribing the measures to be taken by a board under this Act;




(c)

prescribing the nature of the damage for which aid may be given;




(d)

prescribing the extent and nature of work to be undertaken for the
building of works for the prevention of flood damage.




