




Greenbelt Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 176






Definitions




1


In this Act:


"Crown land"
means ungranted Crown or public land or Crown domain within British
Columbia that belongs to the government, whether or not waters flow
over or cover it, and includes any right, title, estate or interest of
the government in land;



"greenbelt land"

means land that is




(a)

considered by the minister to be suitable for preservation as
greenbelt land under this Act, and




(b)

reserved or acquired for that purpose under section 3.






Application of other Acts




2

(1)


Except as provided in this Act or the regulations, greenbelt land is
not subject to any other enactment, whenever enacted or made.




(2)

Except in accordance with this Act or the regulations, no person may
exercise a power granted under any other enactment so as to affect
greenbelt land.




(3)

Despite subsections (1) and (2), this Act is subject to the

Agricultural Land Commission Act

, the

Ecological Reserve Act

, the

Environment and Land Use Act

, the

Environmental Management Act

and the

Water Sustainability Act

.






Preservation of greenbelt land




3


For establishing and preserving greenbelt land,




(a)

the Lieutenant Governor in Council may, by order, reserve Crown land
as greenbelt land,




(b)

with the approval of the Lieutenant Governor in Council, the minister
may acquire land on behalf of the government as greenbelt land, and




(c)

with the approval of the Lieutenant Governor in Council, the minister
may make an agreement on behalf of the government with any of the
following for the acquisition by the government of land owned by them
as greenbelt land:




(i)

Canada;




(ii)

an agency of Canada;




(iii)

an agency of the government;




(iv)

a municipality or regional district;




(v)

an agency of a municipality or regional district.






Greenbelt register




4

(1)


The minister must maintain a greenbelt register to record all land
reserved or acquired under section 3.




(2)

The record may include the following:




(a)

the legal description of the land;




(b)

the name of the owner of the fee simple if other than the government;




(c)

the estate or interest in the land held by the government and the
method of acquisition;




(d)

the area;




(e)

the date of entry in the register.






Gifts of money




5

(1)


The Minister of Finance may accept money, received from a gift or
grant, for the acquisition or maintenance of greenbelt land.




(2)

On the requisition of the minister, money accepted under subsection
(1) may be paid out for this Act without any other appropriation.






Disposition of greenbelt land




6

(1)


With the approval of the Lieutenant Governor in Council and after
public notice, the minister may dispose of greenbelt land in
accordance with the

Land Act

.




(2)

On disposal, the minister must delete the record of that land from the
greenbelt register.




(3)

This section does not apply to land acquired by gift under the former
Greenbelt Protection Fund Act
.






Inconsistent use under existing lease or agreement




7

(1)


Land that, at the time it is recorded in the greenbelt register is
being used, under a lease or other agreement, for a purpose
inconsistent with the nature and use of the land as greenbelt land,
may continue to be used for that purpose until the expiry of the term
of that lease or other agreement and any extension specifically
permitted by the lease or other agreement.




(2)

If, at the time it is recorded in the greenbelt register, there are
buildings on greenbelt land, the minister may lease the buildings.






Management of greenbelt land




8

(1)


The minister is responsible for the management of greenbelt land.




(2)

The minister may carry out maintenance, improvement and development
work on greenbelt land.




(3)

The minister may, in writing, delegate the management of greenbelt
land.






Lease, right of way or easement over greenbelt land




9


Despite section 6, the minister may lease or grant a right of way or
easement over greenbelt land in accordance with the

Land Act

to any person on terms consistent with the continued existence, nature
and use of the land as greenbelt land.






Power to make regulations




10


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
section 41 of the

Interpretation Act

.




