




Hospital Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 200






Definitions




1


In this Act:



"board of management"

means the directors, managers, trustees or other body of persons
having the control and management of a hospital;



"chief inspector"

means the chief inspector or an assistant chief inspector appointed
under section 40;



"day's treatment"

means necessary medical or surgical treatment in a hospital of a
patient for a complete period of 24 hours commencing and ending
at midnight, but the hours of necessary treatment in a hospital of a
patient during the day of the person's admission and the day of the
person's discharge must be counted together as one day's treatment;


"hospital"
, except in Parts 2 and 2.1, means a nonprofit institution that
has been designated as a hospital by the minister and is operated
primarily for the reception and treatment of persons




(a)

suffering from the acute phase of illness or disability,




(b)

convalescing from or being rehabilitated after acute illness or
injury, or




(c)

requiring extended care at a higher level than that generally provided
in a private hospital licensed under Part 2;


"inspector"
means any person appointed as chief inspector or inspector under
section 40;



"licensed community care facility"

means a community care facility, as defined in the

Community Care and Assisted Living Act

, that is licensed under that Act;



"practitioner"

means a person registered as a member of a prescribed health
profession.




Part 1 — Requirements for Hospitals





Requirements for hospitals




2

(1)


A hospital, except a hospital owned by the government or by Canada,
must do the following:




(a)

provide for the representation of the government and the board of the
regional hospital district on the board of management of the hospital
to the extent and in the manner provided;




(b)

have full control of the revenue and expenditure of the hospital
vested in its board of management;




(c)

have a properly constituted board of management and bylaws or rules
thought necessary by the minister for the administration and
management of the hospital's affairs and the provision of a high
standard of care and treatment for patients;




(d)

comply with further conditions prescribed by the Lieutenant Governor
in Council.




(2)

The constitution and bylaws or rules of a hospital, including medical
staff bylaws, are not effective until approved by the minister.




(3)

Despite the

Societies Act

, a society that owns or operates a hospital must not exercise any of
the borrowing powers conferred by the

Societies Act

without the prior approval of the minister.




(4)

Despite any other Act, or the constitution, bylaws or rules of a
hospital, for the purposes of this section, the minister may appoint a
person or persons to represent the government on the board of
management of a hospital for a term not longer than 2 years or
until the person's successor is appointed.




(5) to (8)

[Repealed 1997-23-21.]






Treatment of communicable diseases




3


A person suffering from a communicable disease who is required to be
isolated by an order made under the

Public Health Act

must not be admitted to a hospital unless it can be established to the
satisfaction of the minister that




(a)

in the hospital there is accommodation and facilities for the
isolation of persons suffering from communicable diseases, and




(b)

the person will not be housed or treated anywhere in the hospital
except in that accommodation during the period the person is required
to be isolated.






Duties of a hospital




4

(1)


A hospital must not refuse to admit a person on account of the
person's indigent circumstances.




(2)

A hospital must take all reasonable measures to ensure that the limits
on direct or extra billing established by Part 4 of the

Medicare Protection Act

are complied with in respect of service rendered to a beneficiary, as
defined in section 1 of the

Medicare Protection Act

, by a medical practitioner at the hospital.




(3)

Subject to the regulations, the Schedule to the

Community Care and Assisted Living Act

applies to




(a)

an adult patient who resides in a private hospital licensed under Part
2, and




(b)

an adult person who resides in an institution designated as a hospital
for the treatment of persons referred to in paragraph (c) of the
definition of "hospital".




(4)

A hospital described in subsection (3) must




(a)

display in a prominent place in the hospital a copy of the rights
applicable to adult patients as set out in the Schedule to the

Community Care and Assisted Living Act

, and




(b)

make the rights referred to in paragraph (a) known, orally and in
writing, to adult patients and their representatives.






Conflicts of interest prohibited




4.1

(1)


In this section:


"employee"
includes a licensee, an employee, contractor and volunteer of an
extended care facility or a private hospital;



"extended care facility"

means a hospital described in paragraph (c) of the definition of
"hospital" in section 1;


"patient"
means a patient of an extended care facility or a private hospital;



"personal representative"

includes the following:




(a)

a committee under the

Patients Property Act

;




(b)

an attorney acting under a power of attorney;




(c)

a representative under the

Representation Agreement Act

;




(d)

an executor under the

Wills Act

;




(e)

a trustee of an estate or part of an estate under administration;



"private hospital"

means a hospital licensed under Part 2.




(2)

An employee must not do any of the following:




(a)

persuade or induce, or attempt to persuade or induce, a patient to




(i)

make or change the patient's will,




(ii)

make a gift,




(iii)

provide a benefit for an employee or the employee's spouse, relative
or friend, or




(iv)

conduct the financial affairs of the patient for the benefit of an
employee or the employee's spouse, relative or friend;




(b)

require that a person seeking admission to an extended care facility
or a private hospital, as a condition of admission, make any payment
or donation other than as specified in a written contract;




(c)

act as a personal representative for a patient or former patient,
unless the employee is a child, parent or spouse of the patient or
former patient.




(3)

A provision of a will, a change to a will, a gift, a provision of a
benefit or another measure described in subsection (2) (a) (i) to (iv)
is void if




(a)

it confers a benefit on an employee or the employee's spouse, relative
or friend, and




(b)

the Public Guardian and Trustee has not given written consent to it.




(4)

If an employee acts as an attorney or a representative contrary to
subsection (2) (c), the power of attorney or representation agreement,
and any disposition made under the power of attorney or representation
agreement, is void unless




(a)

the employee is a child, parent or spouse of the patient or former
patient.




(b)

[Repealed 2010-6-164.]




(5)

For the purposes of subsection (3) (a), a benefit conferred by a will,
a change to a will, a gift, a provision of a benefit or another
measure described in subsection (2) (a) (i) to (iv), is deemed to be
conferred at the time the will, change, gift or provision is made or
the other measure is taken.




Part 2 — Private Hospitals





Interpretation and definitions for Part 2




5

(1)


In this Part:


"house"
includes a building, tent or other structure, whether permanent or
temporary, intended for human habitation;



"licensed hospital"

means a private hospital for which a licence has been issued under
this Act and the licence has not been revoked;


"licensee"
means a person to whom a licence has been issued under this Part and
the licence is still in force;



"occasional skilled care"

means nursing or other services rendered intermittently or
periodically to a person by a formally trained person under an
arrangement approved by the inspector, in an amount or to a degree or
with a frequency which, in the opinion of the inspector, is less than
that which would necessitate the individual being lodged in a nursing
home or hospital in order to be properly cared for;


"patient"
means a person, including a mentally disordered person as defined in
the

Mental Health Act

, who is under observation, treatment or care for illness, disease or
injury, or who is receiving nursing care and attention, or a person
who needs that care or treatment, but does not include a person who,
in the opinion of the inspector, only needs or is receiving personal
care or occasional skilled care, or both;



"personal care"

means room and board, assistance with some of the activities of daily
living, nonprofessional care and supervision and a planned program of
social and recreational activities;



"private hospital"

or
"hospital"
means a house in which 2 or more patients, other than the spouse,
parent or child of the owner or operator, are living at the same time,
and includes a nursing home or convalescent home, but does not include
a hospital as defined in section 1.




(2)

For the purposes this Part and of the definition of
"house"
in subsection (1), if there are 2 or more structures in the occupation
of the same person, and located on the same piece of land, they are a
single house.






Licence required for private hospital




6

(1)


A person must not use a house as a private hospital except under the
authority of a licence issued by the minister under this Act.




(2)

An occupier or other person concerned in the management of a hospital
who contravenes subsection (1) is liable to a penalty of not more than
$25 for every day during which the use is continued.






Application for private hospital licence




7

(1)


An application for a licence to keep a private hospital must be made
in writing to the minister, and must contain the following:




(a)

the full name, address and occupation of the applicant;




(b)

a statement of the estate or interest of the applicant in the house
for which the licence is requested;




(c)

a statement showing the maximum number of patients that are to be
lodged in the house and in each room of it at one time;




(d)

the legal description of the land on which the house is located;




(e)

a description of the location of the premises and the surrounding
area, together with photographs showing clearly the exterior of the
house;




(f)

a plan of each floor of the house of a scale and type satisfactory to
the minister;




(g)

a statement of the length, breadth and height of every room or area in
the house and the purpose for which it is to be used;




(h)

a statement of the sanitary arrangements, ventilation, heating,
lighting and water supply of the house;




(i)

a full description of the fire escapes of the house and the facilities
provided for use in case of fire;




(j)

a statement as to the classes of patients proposed to be received into
the house.




(2)

If the applicant proposes to construct a building for use as a private
hospital, the application must contain the particulars specified in
subsection (1) required by the minister, together with other
information required by the minister.




(3)

An application must be verified by a signed statement of the
applicant, and must be accompanied by a fee of $5.




(4)

Before issuing a licence, the minister may require the applicant to
establish that the house has been recently inspected by the fire
commissioner, the building inspector and other inspectors and
officials thought necessary by the minister.




(5)

A person who knowingly provides information that is false or
misleading with respect to a material fact contained in a signed
statement under subsection (3) commits an offence.




(6)

A person who produces or relies upon a signed statement given by
another person under subsection (3) while knowing the signed statement
to be false or misleading with respect to a material fact contained in
that signed statement commits an offence.






Conditions for licence being granted




8


A licence must not be granted unless




(a)

the house is approved by the chief inspector as suitable for the
purpose indicated in the application, and




(b)

the minister is satisfied as to the character and fitness of the
applicant.






Licences




9

(1)


Patients must be received and lodged in a licensed hospital, and their
care and treatment provided for in it only in accordance with the
provisions specified in the licence.




(2)

A licensed hospital must be operated and managed by the licensee in
accordance with the conditions specified by the minister.




(3)

A licence must state the maximum number of patients who may be
received and lodged in the hospital at one time.




(4)

A licence may be limited to the reception of a particular class or
classes of patients.




(5)

A licensee must display the licence at all times in a prominent place
in the licensed hospital.




(6)

A licence continues in force until revoked in accordance with this
Act.






Annual licence fee




10


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may prescribe




(a)

the fee payable for a licence issued under this Part, and




(b)

the manner in which the fee is to be paid.






Transmission of licence on death of one joint holder




11


If a licence has been issued to 2 or more persons jointly, and during
the currency of it any of those persons dies leaving the other or
others surviving, the licence remains in force and has the same effect
as if it were granted to the survivor or survivors.






Transfer of licence on application of parties




12

(1)


On application in writing signed by the licensee and by a person to
whom the licensee wants the licence to be transferred, the minister
may, by endorsement on the licence or otherwise in writing, transfer
the licence to that person.




(2)

A person to whom a licence is transferred under subsection (1)




(a)

becomes the licensee of the hospital, and




(b)

has the same rights and obligations as if the licence had been granted
to that person.




(3)

A transfer of ownership, mortgage, lease or other dealing with the
land and improvements in which a private hospital business is being
carried on is not effective until the written approval of the chief
inspector is obtained.




(4)

A change in the ownership of shares in the corporation which owns or
operates a private hospital is not effective until the written
approval of the chief inspector is obtained.




(5)

A corporation that is the licensee of a private hospital must




(a)

annually, on payment of the fee under section 10, file with the
chief inspector a report in duplicate listing the full name, address
and occupation of each director and shareholder of the corporation and
setting forth the person's interest in the corporation, and,




(b)

within one month of receiving a request in writing, furnish an
inspector with whatever information the inspector requests about




(i)

the ownership of shares in the corporation, or




(ii)

the operation of the private hospital.






Transfer or revocation of licence on death of licensee




13

(1)


If the licensee or the sole surviving licensee dies, the minister may,
by endorsement on the licence or otherwise in writing, transfer the
licence to a person nominated by the executors or administrators of
the deceased licensee.




(2)

A person to whom a licence is transferred under subsection (1) becomes
the licensee of the hospital, with the same rights and obligations as
if the licence had been granted to that person.




(3)

Unless the licence is revoked under this section or section 14,
the hospital continues to be a licensed hospital, and for the purposes
of this Part the superintendent and other officers continue in office
in the same manner as if the licensee were still living.




(4)

If the licence is not transferred under this section within
2 months after the death of the licensee or of the sole surviving
licensee, the minister may, in writing, revoke the licence.




(5)

If the minister revokes a licence under subsection (4), the minister
must publish a notice of the revocation in the Gazette.






Revocation of licence




14

(1)


A licence may at any time be revoked by the minister if any of the
following conditions exist:




(a)

the licensee has defaulted for 3 months in paying the annual
licence fee;




(b)

the licensee or superintendent has been convicted of an offence
against this Act, or of an offence punishable by imprisonment;




(c)

in the opinion of the inspector, the hospital premises are unsanitary,
without proper fire protection or are otherwise unsuitable for
hospital purposes, or the hospital is managed or conducted in such a
manner that the revocation of the licence is required in the public
interest.




(2)

Before a licence is revoked under subsection (1), the minister must
give notice to the licensee or superintendent of the ground on which
it is proposed to revoke the licence, and must allow the person an
opportunity to show why the licence should not be revoked.




(3)

Despite subsection (1), the minister may revoke the licence of a
licensed hospital if the following conditions are met:




(a)

the minister determines that




(i)

the proper standard of care or treatment is not being provided for a
patient in it,




(ii)

any portion of the licensed hospital or its equipment or furnishings
is unsatisfactory or unsuitable, or




(iii)

the hospital is being operated contrary to a condition imposed under
section 9 (1) or (2);




(b)

the minister has issued a notice to the licensee




(i)

advising the licensee of the proposed revocation of the licence,




(ii)

specifying the matters complained of, and




(iii)

setting a period of time thought adequate by the minister for the
correction of those matters;




(c)

the licensee fails to correct the matters complained of in the notice
or fails to show why the licence should not be revoked, to the
satisfaction of the minister, within the time set in the notice.




(4)

A notice issued by the minister under this section, or a request or
notice issued under this Part, may be served by delivering it
personally to the licensee or superintendent, or by mailing it by
registered mail to the licensee at the licensed hospital or the
licensee's last known address.




(5)

For the purposes of subsection (4), a notice or request sent by
registered mail is deemed to be received by the licensee on the day on
which it would reach the licensee in the ordinary course of mail,
regardless of whether the licensee fails or refuses to take delivery
of it.




(6)

The revocation of a licence must be effected in writing by the
minister.




(7)

Notice of the revocation must be




(a)

served on the licensee as provided in this Act, and




(b)

published in the Gazette.




(8)

The decision of the minister as to the revocation of a licence is
final and conclusive, and may not be questioned in a court or a
proceeding.






Restrictions on advertising




15

(1)


Unless a place is licensed as a private hospital under this Part, is a
hospital as defined in section 1, or is a Provincial mental
health facility as defined in the

Mental Health Act

a person must not




(a)

advertise or otherwise make a representation that




(i)

nursing care or attention, or




(ii)

observation or treatment of or care for illness, disease or injury


will be provided in the place under supervision by or with the
approval or assistance of the government or an agency of it, or




(b)

by the use or publication of the words "hospital", "nursing home" or
"convalescent home", or any other words, imply or attempt to give the
implication that




(i)

nursing care or attention, or




(ii)

observation or treatment of or care for illness, disease or injury


is or will be provided in any place under supervision by or with the
approval or assistance of the government or an agency of it.




(2)

A person who contravenes this section commits an offence and is liable
on conviction to a fine of not more than $100.






Alteration, addition or repairs to licensed hospital




16

(1)


A structural alteration of or addition to a licensed hospital must not
be made until a plan of the proposed alteration or addition has been
submitted to and approved by the chief inspector.




(2)

Any repair, alteration or addition to a licensed hospital or a house
that is to be used for that purpose must be made in a proper manner
with suitable materials,




(a)

in accordance with the requirements of the chief inspector and of the
municipality in which the licensed hospital or house is located, or




(b)

if the licensed hospital or house is not located within a
municipality, in accordance with the National Building Code of Canada
and the requirements of the Provincial authorities specified by the
chief inspector.




(3)

Immediately on completion of a repair, alteration or addition, the
owner or operator of the licensed hospital or house must




(a)

have the work inspected by the inspectors or officials, either
Provincial or municipal, required by law, or by the chief inspector,
and




(b)

submit to the chief inspector reports of the inspections required by
the chief inspector.




(4)

Subsections (2) and (3) apply to a building being constructed for use
as a private hospital.




(5)

If a repair, alteration or addition is made in breach of this section,
the licensee is liable on conviction to a fine of not more than $100.






Superintendent of licensed hospital




17

(1)


A licensed hospital must have a superintendent who is




(a)

resident on the premises, and




(b)

a medical practitioner, a member of the Registered Nurses' Association
of British Columbia or a graduate nurse whose qualifications are
approved by the chief inspector.




(2)

The superintendent is responsible for




(a)

the nursing care, treatment and other services provided to patients,
and




(b)

the supervision of staff dealing directly with patients.




(3)

The superintendent is responsible for conducting the business affairs
of the licensed hospital and the supervision of staff who do not deal
directly with patients, unless some or all of those responsibilities
have been assigned by the licensee to another person.




(4)

The licensee may be the superintendent, but a person must not act as
superintendent without the approval of the chief inspector.




(5)

For the purposes of subsection (4), the chief inspector may specify
that the superintendent is to be initially appointed on a probationary
basis for a period not longer than 6 months.




(6)

During the probationary period under subsection (5), the chief
inspector may cancel the appointment if the chief inspector is of the
opinion that the superintendent is not properly qualified, or is not
performing the superintendent's duties in a satisfactory manner.




(7)

The superintendent or acting superintendent must




(a)

keep proof of the superintendent's or acting superintendent's
qualifications readily available in the licensed hospital, and




(b)

permit the inspector to examine that proof on demand and without prior
notice being given by the inspector.




(8)

During the temporary absence, illness or incapacity of the
superintendent, the licensee may appoint as acting superintendent, for
a period not longer than 6 months, any person qualified under
this section if the licensee notifies an inspector within
24 hours of the appointment of




(a)

the full name and qualifications of the acting superintendent, and




(b)

the circumstances necessitating the appointment.




(9)

If the chief inspector approves the appointment, the acting
superintendent, while acting as the superintendent, is deemed for the
purposes of this Part to be the superintendent.




(10)

If a licensed hospital is used while there is no qualified
superintendent, or while the superintendent is not resident on the
premises, the licensee is liable to a penalty of not more than $25 for
each day during which it is so used.




(11)

The chief inspector may, because of special circumstances, and on
terms and conditions the chief inspector thinks fit, by warrant
temporarily exempt a licensed hospital from the requirements of
subsections (1), (2), (3) and (4).




(12)

An exemption granted under subsection (11) may be withdrawn by notice
from the chief inspector delivered to the licensee of the hospital.






Register of patients




18

(1)


The licensee of a hospital must keep at the hospital a register of
patients in a form prescribed by the chief inspector, in which the
licensee must enter the following:




(a)

the full name, age and usual address of every patient, the date of the
patient's admission to the hospital and the name and address of the
patient's next of kin;




(b)

the name of the practitioner attending each patient;




(c)

the date on which each patient is discharged from the hospital, or, in
the event of the death of a patient in the hospital, the date of the
patient's death;




(d)

other particulars prescribed by the chief inspector.




(2)

The particulars must be entered in the register as soon as practicable
after the occurrence or event to which the entry relates.




(3)

A person must not do any of the following:




(a)

knowingly make an untrue entry in the register of patients;




(b)

destroy, damage or mutilate a register of patients or any part of it;




(c)

delete or alter a true and correct entry appearing in a register of
patients, or fail to make an entry required to be made under this
Part.




(4)

If the hospital ceases operation or if the licence issued under this
Act for it is revoked, the register of patients must at once be
surrendered to an inspector.




(5)

A person who fails to comply with this section commits an offence and
is liable on conviction to a fine of not more than $100.






Inspection of licensed hospital and submission of reports to inspector




19

(1)


To determine whether the patients in a licensed hospital are receiving
adequate care under safe and satisfactory conditions, an inspector may
at any time inspect every part of the hospital and its books and
records personally, or by or with a Provincial or municipal official
authorized by the inspector whom the inspector thinks it advisable to
consult regarding the care or treatment of patients or the
maintenance, operation or management of hospitals.




(2)

The licensee or superintendent must provide the reports and
information required by the inspector within the time specified by the
inspector.






Removal of dead persons




20


An apparently dead person must not be removed from a licensed hospital
until a medical practitioner or nurse practitioner has certified that
the person is actually dead.






Inspection of unlicensed houses




21

(1)


If an inspector believes or suspects that a house is used as a private
hospital without being licensed under this Act, the inspector may, at
any time during ordinary business hours, enter and inspect every part
of the house personally, or by or with any Provincial or municipal
official authorized by the inspector.




(2)

If 2 or more persons lodged in the house appear to be patients, the
inspector, or anyone authorized by the inspector, may inquire as to
their physical condition to determine whether they are patients within
the meaning of this Part.




(3)

A person who prevents or obstructs, or attempts to prevent or
obstruct, any entry, inspection or inquiry under this section commits
an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of not more than
$200.






Unauthorized use of licensed hospital




22

(1)


If a licensed hospital is used for the reception of a greater number
of patients than is permitted by the licence, or for the reception of
a patient of a class not authorized by the licence, the licensee and
the superintendent each incur a penalty of not more than $25 for each
day during which it is so used.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), the inspector may, if the inspector thinks it
in the public interest, temporarily exempt a licensed hospital from
subsection (1) by a written permit, specifying




(a)

the number of additional beds that may be put into use,




(b)

the conditions imposed by the inspector, and




(c)

the date and time at which the permit is issued by the inspector.




(3)

A permit issued under section (2) is not valid for a period longer
than 5 days.






Penalty




23


If a person commits an offence under this Part and no penalty is
provided for the offence, the person is liable on conviction to a
penalty of not more than $25 for each offence.






Burden of proof




24

(1)


For a prosecution, action or proceeding under this Part, the facts
necessary to establish that a person is a patient within the meaning
of this Part may be proved in court by production of an affidavit of a
practitioner, without proof of the signature or qualification of the
practitioner, and the burden of proving that a person living in a
house is not a patient within the meaning of this Part is on the
person charged.




(2)

In a prosecution for an offence against this Part, the burden of
proving that a licence is in force and of proving its terms, and that
a person apparently having the charge, control or management of the
hospital is not the superintendent of it within the meaning of this
Part, is on the person charged.




Part 2.1 — Hospitals Providing Abortion Services





Abortion services




24.1

(1)


In this section
"qualified person"
has the meaning given to it in section 1 of the

Hospital Insurance Act

.




(2)

Each hospital listed in the Schedule to this Act must provide the
facilities and services, and be operated and maintained, as necessary
to allow a qualified person to receive abortion services at that
hospital.




(3)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may, by regulation, amend the
Schedule to add to it any hospital in British Columbia.




Part 3





Repealed




25-39


[Repealed 2002-25-36.]




Part 4 — General





Power to appoint inspectors




40

(1)


Subject to the

Public Service Act

, the minister may appoint a chief inspector, 2 assistant chief
inspectors and the number of inspectors necessary for the purposes of
this Act.




(2)

A hospital must be open to the inspection of the inspector and of a
person appointed by the minister for that purpose.




(3)

An inspection under subsection (2) must include the accounts, books,
buildings, medical appliances, drugs and any other thing in or about
the hospital.






Certain actions for damages prohibited




41

(1)


In this section,
"medical staff committee"
means a committee established or approved by a board of management of
a hospital for




(a)

evaluating, controlling and reporting on clinical practice in a
hospital in order to continually maintain and improve the safety and
quality of patient care in the hospital, or




(b)

performing a function for the appraisal and control of the quality of
patient care in the hospital.




(2)

No liability for damages or other relief arises or may be enforced
against a member of a medical staff committee for anything done or
omitted to be done by the member in good faith in carrying out the
duties and powers of a member of the committee.






Minister may require bylaws be revised




42


The minister may require that the bylaws or rules of a hospital or a
society or corporation having among its objects the provision of
hospital facilities or the operation of a hospital be revised in a
manner satisfactory to the minister in order to meet changing
conditions and policies, and to provide for greater uniformity and
efficiency in all matters concerning the administration and operation
of hospitals.






Definitions for sections 42.1 to 42.4




42.1


In this section and sections 42.2 to 42.4:


"alter"
has the same meaning as in the

Societies Act

;


"bylaws"
has the same meaning as in the

Societies Act

;



"constitution"

has the same meaning as in the

Societies Act

;


"director"
has the same meaning as in the

Societies Act

;



"hospital purpose society"

means a society, other than a hospital society, that has among its
purposes the purpose of owning, managing or operating a premises that
is to be operated primarily for the reception and treatment of persons
described in paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of the definition of "hospital"
in section 1;



"hospital society"

means a society that owns, manages or operates a hospital as defined
in section 1;


"society"
has the same meaning as in the

Societies Act

.






Approval required in relation to societies




42.2

(1)


A person must not, without the prior written approval of the minister,
form, under the

Societies Act

, by incorporation, amalgamation, continuation or conversion, a
hospital purpose society.




(2)

A society that is not a hospital purpose society must not, without the
prior written approval of the minister, become a hospital purpose
society by altering, under the

Societies Act

, the constitution of the society.




(3)

A society that is a hospital society or a hospital purpose society
must not, without the prior written approval of the minister,




(a)

alter, under the

Societies Act

, the society's constitution or bylaws,




(b)

enter into an agreement to amalgamate, under the

Societies Act

, with one or more other corporations,




(c)

sell, lease or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of the
society's undertaking, as described in section 92 of the

Societies Act

,




(d)

propose an arrangement under section 99 of the

Societies Act

, or




(e)

voluntarily dissolve, or liquidate and dissolve, under the

Societies Act

.




(4)

A person must not, without the prior written approval of the minister,
apply to restore, under Division 11 of Part 10 of the

Societies Act

, a dissolved society that was, on dissolution, a hospital society or
a hospital purpose society.




(5)

The minister may attach conditions to an approval given under this
section.




(6)

A person to whom a condition referred to in subsection (5) applies
must comply with the condition on or before the date, if any, the
minister specifies.






Annual requirement for hospital societies




42.3

(1)


A hospital society must annually, on or before the date the minister,
by order, specifies, provide to the minister, in the form and manner
the minister requires, an affidavit that




(a)

is sworn by one or more directors of the hospital society, and




(b)

states whether the hospital society has, during the period since the
immediately preceding affidavit required under this section was sworn,
complied with section 42.2 (3).




(2)

The minister may, for different classes of hospital societies, specify
different requirements as to the form of affidavits required under
subsection (1) or the manner in which affidavits under that subsection
are to be provided to the minister.






Further application of sections 42.2 and 42.3




42.4

(1)


The minister may, by order, designate as a hospital society, for the
purposes of a provision of section 42.2 (3), a society that




(a)

owns, manages or operates a licensed community care facility, and




(b)

receives or has received from the government financial assistance in
relation to that facility, including, without limitation, operational
funding.




(2)

If the minister designates, under subsection (1), a society as a
hospital society for the purposes of a provision of section 42.2 (3),




(a)

that provision applies to the society as if that society were a
hospital society, and




(b)

sections 42.2 (5) and (6) and 42.3 apply in respect of that provision
of section 42.2 (3) as that provision relates to the society.






Reports and returns may be requested by chief inspector




43


The administrator of every hospital or the secretary of the board of
management of a hospital must forward to the chief inspector returns
and reports requested by the chief inspector, in the form and manner
and at times specified by the chief inspector.






Special supervision of tubercular patients




44


All patients with tuberculosis of the respiratory tract treated at a
hospital are subject to supervision by a medical health officer
appointed by the Lieutenant Governor in Council.






Facilities for university medical students




45

(1)


A hospital that provides primarily acute care must provide reasonable
facilities in or near the hospital for giving clinical instruction to
the medical students of The University of British Columbia by
designated staff of the hospital and by professors and members of the
teaching staff of the medical faculty of The University of British
Columbia.




(2)

If the authorities of the hospital and of the university are unable to
agree as to the nature and extent of the facilities to be granted, or
the rules under which they are to be made use of, they must be
determined by the Lieutenant Governor in Council.






Hospital Appeal Board




46

(1)


The Hospital Appeal Board, consisting of the members appointed under
subsection (4), is continued for the purpose of providing
practitioners appeals from




(a)

a decision of a board of management that modifies, refuses, suspends,
revokes or fails to renew a practitioner's permit to practise in a
hospital, or




(b)

the failure or refusal of a board of management to consider and decide
on an application for a permit.




(1.1) and (1.2)

[Repealed 2004-45-102.]




(2)

The Hospital Appeal Board may affirm, vary, reverse or substitute its
own decision for that of a board of management on the terms and
conditions it considers appropriate.




(2.1)

A practitioner may appeal to the Hospital Appeal Board if




(a)

the practitioner is dissatisfied with the decision of a hospital's
board, or




(b)

a hospital's board fails to notify the practitioner of its decision
within the prescribed time.




(2.2)

A practitioner who wishes to appeal under subsection (2.1) is not
required to first proceed by way of an application to the hospital's
board.




(2.3)

An appeal to the Hospital Appeal Board is a new hearing.




(3)

The Hospital Appeal Board has exclusive jurisdiction to inquire into,
hear and determine all those matters and questions of fact, law and
discretion arising or required to be determined in an appeal under
this section and to make any order permitted to be made.




(3.1)

A decision or order of the Hospital Appeal Board under this Act on a
matter in respect of which the Hospital Appeal Board has exclusive
jurisdiction is final and conclusive and is not open to question or
review in any court.




(3.2)

A practitioner who wishes to appeal under subsection (2.1) must
deliver the notice of appeal




(a)

if the appeal concerns a board's decision under subsection (2.1) (a),
not later than 90 days after the date that the board caused a notice
of its decision to be sent to the practitioner, or




(b)

if the appeal concerns a board's decision under subsection (2.1) (b),
not later than 210 days after the date that the practitioner applied
for a permit in the prescribed manner.




(3.3)

A notice of appeal must




(a)

be in writing or in another form authorized by the rules of the
Hospital Appeal Board and directed to the chair of that board,




(b)

set out the grounds for appeal,




(c)

state whether or not the appellant waives an oral hearing of the
matter,




(d)

state the outcome requested,




(e)

contain the name, address and telephone number of the appellant, and,
if the appellant has an agent to act on the appellant's behalf in
respect of the appeal, the name of the agent and a telephone number at
which the agent may be contacted during regular business hours,




(f)

include an address for delivery of notices in respect of the appeal,




(g)

be signed by the appellant or the appellant's agent,




(h)

include reference to any correspondence, documents and memoranda
relating to the matter in issue, and




(i)

if applicable, include a copy of the order or decision being appealed.




(3.4)

Unless both parties have waived an oral hearing of an appeal, the
Hospital Appeal Board must as soon as practicable set a time and place
for the hearing and promptly notify the parties in writing.




(3.5)

If the parties have waived an oral hearing of an appeal, or in an
interim or preliminary matter, the Hospital Appeal Board may hold any
combination of written, electronic or oral hearings.




(3.6)

On written application by either party, the Hospital Appeal Board may
extend the time for doing anything required under this section except
the time for the bringing of an appeal under subsection (3.2).




(3.7)

If a notice of appeal is deficient, the chair of the Hospital Appeal
Board or the chair's delegate may allow a reasonable period of time
within which the notice may be corrected.




(4)

Subject to subsection (4.1), the minister must appoint 10 members of
the Hospital Appeal Board as follows:




(a)

one member designated as the chair;




(b)

one member designated as the vice chair after consultation with the
chair;




(c)

other members appointed after consultation with the chair.




(4.1)

For the purposes of subsection (4), the members of the Hospital Appeal
Board must be appointed as follows:




(a)

one member selected after a merit-based process from among 3 or more
individuals nominated by the executive body of the College of
Physicians and Surgeons of British Columbia;




(b)

one member selected after a merit-based process from among 3 or more
individuals nominated by the executive body of the College of Dental
Surgeons of British Columbia;




(c)

one member




(i)

selected after a merit-based process from among 3 or more individuals
nominated by the executive body of the British Columbia College of
Nurses and Midwives, and




(ii)

authorized to practise the designated health profession of midwifery;




(d)

one member selected after a merit-based process from among 3 or more
individuals nominated by the executive body of the Association of
Doctors of BC;




(e)

6 other members selected after a merit-based process.




(4.2)

The following provisions of the

Administrative Tribunals Act

apply to the Hospital Appeal Board:




(a)

Part 1
[Interpretation and Application]
;




(b)

Part 2
[Appointments]
;




(c)

Part 3
[Clustering]
;




(d)

Part 4
[Practice and Procedure]
, except the following:




(i)

section 21
[notice of hearing by publication]
;




(ii)

section 22
[notice of appeal (inclusive of prescribed fee)]
;




(iii)

section 23
[notice of appeal (exclusive of prescribed fee)]
;




(iv)

section 24
[time limit for appeals]
;




(v)

section 36
[form of hearing of application]
;




(vi)

section 40
[information admissible in tribunal proceedings]
;




(vii)

section 41
[hearing open to public]
;




(e)

section 44

[tribunal without jurisdiction over constitutional questions]

;




(f)

section 46.2

[limited jurisdiction and discretion to decline jurisdiction to
apply the Human Rights Code]

;




(g)

Part 6
[Costs and Sanctions]
, except sections 47.1
[security for costs]
and 47. 2
[government and agents of government]
;




(h)

Part 7
[Decisions]
;




(i)

Part 8
[Immunities]
;




(j)

section 57
[time limit for judicial review]
;




(k)

section 58
[standard of review with privative clause]
;




(l)

section 59.1
[surveys]
;




(m)

section 59.2
[reporting]
;




(n)

section 60 (1) (a), (b) and (d) to (i) and (2)
[power to make regulations]
;




(o)

section 61

[application of Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy
Act]

.




(5)

[Repealed 2004-45-102.]




(6)

All information or evidence




(a)

about an application for a practitioner's permit to practise in a
hospital, or contained in the decision of a board of management
resulting from the application, or




(b)

received by, or presented to, the Hospital Appeal Board for an appeal


is privileged and an action must not be brought against a person for
it.




(7)

[Repealed 2003-47-33.]




(8)

Before giving a decision on an appeal, the Hospital Appeal Board may
refer a matter to a professional or other organization in the health
field to obtain expert assistance or a formal report.




(9)

[Repealed 2003-47-33.]






Information admissible in Hospital Appeal Board proceedings




46.1

(1)


The Hospital Appeal Board may receive and accept information that it
considers relevant, necessary and appropriate, whether or not the
information would be admissible in a court of law.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), the Hospital Appeal Board may exclude anything
unduly repetitious.




(3)

Subject to subsections (6) and (7), nothing is admissible before the
Hospital Appeal Board that is inadmissible in a court because of a
privilege under the law of evidence.




(4)

Nothing in subsection (1) overrides the provisions of any Act
expressly limiting the extent to or purposes for which any oral
testimony, documents or things may be admitted or used in evidence.




(5)

Notes or records kept by a person appointed by the Hospital Appeal
Board to conduct a dispute resolution process in relation to a
proceeding are inadmissible in Hospital Appeal Board proceedings.




(6)

For the purposes of section 51 of the

Evidence Act

, a proceeding before the Hospital Appeal Board is a proceeding before
a board of management.




(7)

Information that is inadmissible before a court under section 51 of
the

Evidence Act

is admissible in a proceeding before the Hospital Appeal Board.






Power to withhold amounts payable to hospitals




47


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may withhold the amounts payable
under this or any other Act to a hospital, including a hospital under
Part 2.1, if its board of management refuses or neglects to comply
with this Act or the regulations, or fails to administer the hospital
in a manner satisfactory to the minister.






Conditions applicable to hospital receiving financial assistance




48

(1)


If the government has granted financial assistance toward the
planning, constructing, reconstructing, purchasing and equipping of a
hospital as defined in section 1 or 5, or the acquiring of land
or buildings for hospital purposes, the owner or operator of it must
do the following:




(a)

secure the written approval of the minister before making




(i)

a structural alteration to an area in the hospital used for housing or
serving patients, if the total cost of labour and materials exceeds an
amount determined by the minister, or




(ii)

an increase or decrease in the space used for housing patients, or in
the number of beds ordinarily maintained for patients, or before using
an area designed for housing patients for any other purpose;




(b)

if the hospital premises or equipment is damaged or destroyed, set
aside from the payment received under an insurance policy covering the
loss or from other compensation received in regard to the loss a sum
determined by the minister to be proportionate to the amount of
financial assistance granted by the government;




(c)

secure the written approval of the minister to a proposed lease or
transfer of the hospital land, building or equipment, or any part of
it, to another person and if a lease or transfer is made, there must
be set aside from the consideration or purchase price a sum determined
by the minister in the manner set out in paragraph (b);




(d)

if the hospital land, building or equipment ceases to be used for
hospital purposes, set aside a sum determined by the minister to be
proportionate to the amount of financial assistance granted by the
government.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1) (c), if the minister determines
that a lease or transfer is in the public interest and is made for
consideration or purchase price that is less than the leasehold or
market value,




(a)

the minister may direct that no sum be set aside, and




(b)

the minister may further direct that this section applies to a
subsequent lease or transfer.




(3)

A lease or transfer of hospital land, building or equipment for which
the government has granted financial assistance is not effective
unless approved by the minister.




(4)

For the purposes of subsection (1) (d), the minister may direct that
no sum need be set aside if the minister determines that the land,
building or equipment is to be used for a purpose that is in the
public interest, and, in that case, the minister may require the owner
or operator to subsequently set aside a sum if the land, building or
equipment is leased or transferred or ceases to be used for a purpose
that is in the public interest.




(5)

If the sum determined by the minister to be set aside under subsection
(1) (b), (c) or (d) is not acceptable to the owner or operator of the
hospital, the sum to be set aside must be submitted to arbitration
under the

Arbitration Act

, and the sum determined by the arbitration board is the sum to be set
aside under subsection (1) (b), (c) and (d).




(6)

A sum required to be set aside under subsection (1) (b) or (c) must be
paid into the consolidated revenue fund within one month of the day on
which the owner or operator of a hospital receives full or partial
payment of insurance money or other compensation, or the proceeds of a
lease or transfer.




(7)

A sum required to be set aside under subsection (1) (d) must be paid
into the consolidated revenue fund by the owner or operator of the
land, building or equipment in the manner determined by the minister
and within a period specified by the minister which must not be longer
than one year, or a longer period specified by the Lieutenant Governor
in Council, from the date on which the minister notifies the owner or
operator of the sum to be set aside.






Extended application of section 48




49

(1)


Section 48 applies, with the necessary modifications, to the owner or
operator of a hospital in respect of financial assistance provided
under the

Hospital District Act

.




(2)

The determination under this section of the sum to be set aside under
this section, including sums related to money provided to the owner or
operator of a hospital by the board of a regional hospital district in
payment of items of expense determined to be the sole responsibility
of the regional hospital district under the

Hospital District Act

, must be made by the minister and, subject to proceedings under the

Arbitration Act

, must be paid to the board of the regional hospital district in which
the hospital is located within the appropriate period specified in
section 48.




(3)

The board of a regional hospital district must hold each sum received
under this section separate from all other money, and use each sum
only for purposes approved by the minister.






Further application of section 48




50

(1)


The minister may, by order, designate as a hospital, for the purposes
of a provision of section 48, a licensed community care facility that




(a)

is owned or operated by




(i)

a society as defined in section 1 of the

Societies Act

, or




(ii)

a registered extraprovincial non-share corporation as defined in
section 167 of the

Societies Act

, and




(b)

receives from the government financial assistance, including financial
assistance for the retirement of debt arising out of the planning,
constructing, reconstructing, equipping or acquiring of land or
buildings for the purposes of the facility.




(2)

If the minister designates, under subsection (1), a licensed community
care facility as a hospital for the purposes of a provision of section
48,




(a)

that provision applies to the facility as if that facility were a
hospital, and




(b)

if either or both of paragraphs (c) and (d) of section 48 (1) are made
applicable to that facility under paragraph (a) of this subsection, a
notice that is required to be or may be filed in a land title office,
indicating that the hospital land of a hospital, as defined in section
1 or 5, is subject to section 48 (1) (c) and (d), may be filed in
respect of




(i)

licensed community care facility land, and




(ii)

either or both of paragraphs (c) and (d) of section 48 (1),

even if the regulation providing for filing



(iii)

does not refer to licensed community care facilities or licensed
community care facility land, and




(iv)

refers to both paragraphs (c) and (d) of section 48 (1).






Records




51

(1)


A record regarding a patient that is prepared in a hospital by an
employee or by a practitioner is the property of the hospital.




(2)

A copy of a hospital record certified to be true and correct by the
administrator of the hospital or by another officer of it is
admissible as evidence in a court without proof of the official
position or signature of the administrator or officer.






Appointment of examining board or public administrator




52

(1)


If the minister considers it necessary in the public interest, the
minister may appoint an examining board to




(a)

examine any aspect of the planning, construction or operation of a
hospital, and




(b)

hear and receive evidence about it.




(2)

An examining board appointed under this section must




(a)

proceed in accordance with instructions issued by the minister, and




(b)

report in writing to the minister within a time specified by the
minister.




(3)

If, in the opinion of the minister, the circumstances warrant, the
minister may refer to the Lieutenant Governor in Council the report
mentioned in subsection (2), together with recommendations the
minister thinks appropriate.




(4)

Despite the

Societies Act

and the

Business Corporations Act

, or any other Act or document of incorporation, the Lieutenant
Governor in Council may appoint a public administrator to manage the
property and affairs of a hospital society or corporation that owns,
operates or is planning or constructing a hospital defined under
section 1, if the Lieutenant Governor in Council considers it in
the public interest to do so.




(5)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may give a public administrator
appointed under subsection (4) the exclusive right to exercise all of
the powers of the society or corporation, the board of directors or
trustees, and the members of the society or corporation, together with
exclusive control and disposition of the property, assets and revenues
of the society or corporation.




(6)

On the appointment of a public administrator under subsection (4), the
trustees or directors of the hospital society or corporation cease to
hold office unless otherwise ordered by the Lieutenant Governor in
Council.




(7)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may specify the terms and
conditions governing any of the following:




(a)

the powers, duties and responsibilities of a public administrator
appointed under subsection (4);




(b)

the management of the property and affairs of the society or
corporation during the transitional period preceding the termination
of the appointment of the public administrator;




(c)

the planning, construction or operation of the hospital after the
termination of the appointment of the public administrator.






Hospital land exempt




53

(1)


Land that is vested either in a person who owns a hospital, as defined
in section 1, or in a district incorporated under the

Hospital District Act

, is not liable to be entered on, used or taken by a municipal or
other corporation, or by a person possessing the right of taking land
compulsorily, except with the written approval of the minister.




(2)

No power to expropriate enacted after April 3, 1970 extends to the
land described in subsection (1), unless in the Act conferring the
power it applies in express terms to that land.




(3)

Nothing in this section prohibits the protection of a heritage site or
heritage object under the

Heritage Conservation Act

, the

Local Government Act

or the

Vancouver Charter

.






Penalty




54


A person who contravenes this Act or the regulations commits an
offence and is liable on conviction, unless a penalty is expressly
provided by this Act, to a penalty of not more than $200.






Recovery of penalty




55


Except as otherwise provided in this Act, the penalties imposed under
this Act are recoverable under the

Offence Act

.






Power to make regulations




56

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make any regulations deemed
necessary for the carrying out of the provisions of this Act to meet
any contingency not expressly provided for in it, and providing for
the returns to be rendered by the secretary or other executive officer
of a hospital.




(1.1)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may, by regulation, prescribe a
health profession for the purpose of the definition of "practitioner"
in section 1.




(2)

[Repealed 1999-12-7.]




(3)

The power to make regulations under this section extends to
prescribing, for any hospital as defined under any of the provisions
of this Act, any of the following:




(a)

the proportion of the accommodation which is to be used as public or
standard ward accommodation;




(b)

the number or proportion of persons




(i)

to or for whom income assistance is provided under the

Employment and Assistance Act

or disability assistance is provided under the


Employment and Assistance for Persons with Disabilities Act


, and




(ii)

who are to be provided with the necessary care and accommodation;




(b.1)

the rates payable for the persons referred to in paragraph (b);




(c)

the rules or standards for the ownership, capital debt, construction,
maintenance, operation and management of hospitals or licensed
hospitals;




(d)

the issue, by the board of management, of permits authorizing the
treatment of patients by practitioners;




(e)

the establishment of medical staff organizations and other bodies
comprised of persons to whom permits are issued under paragraph (d)
and the promulgation, by a board of management, of bylaws or rules
governing those organizations or other bodies;




(f)

the requirements governing the admission to and discharge from
hospitals of patients;




(g)

the rules or standards regarding the care and treatment of patients;




(h)

the records and documents respecting patients to be kept by a hospital
or supplied by a practitioner to a hospital, and the minimum period
for the retention of those records and documents by a hospital;




(i)

the powers, duties and responsibilities of a public administrator
appointed under section 52, and any matter respecting a hospital
corporation for which the appointment is made;




(j)

the terms and conditions of the planning, construction and operation
of a hospital following public administration under section 52.




(3.01)

For the purposes of section 4 (3), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations as follows:




(a)

providing for the application to this Act of a word or expression used
in the Schedule to the

Community Care and Assisted Living Act

;




(b)

for the purpose of promoting the rights of adult patients, requiring a
hospital described in section 4 (3) to comply with one or more
requirements of a regulation made under the

Community Care and Assisted Living Act

and modifying those requirements as the Lieutenant Governor in Council
considers advisable.




(3.1)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations adding any
hospital in British Columbia to the Schedule.




(4)

If regulations are made,




(a)

a hospital to which the regulations apply must observe them, and




(b)

the person in charge of admissions to a hospital to which regulations
made under subsection (3) (b) apply must, if the number or proportion
of the persons to whom that paragraph refers accommodated in that
hospital is less than the number or proportion prescribed, give
preference of admission to those persons.




Schedule


[section 24.1]




1
Bulkley Valley District Hospital


2
Burnaby Hospital


3
Campbell River and District General Hospital


4
Cariboo Memorial Hospital


5
Cumberland Health Care Facility


6
Dawson Creek and District Hospital


7
Eagle Ridge Hospital and Health Care Centre


8
Fort St. John General Hospital


9
Golden and District General Hospital


10
G.R. Baker Memorial Hospital


11
Kelowna General Hospital


12
Kimberley and District Hospital


13
Kitimat General Hospital


14
Kootenay Lake District Hospital


15
Lions Gate Hospital


16

Maple Ridge Meadows Hospital and Health Care Centre



17
Mills Memorial Hospital


18
Mission Memorial Hospital


19
Nanaimo Regional General Hospital


19.1

North Island Hospital, Campbell River & District



19.2
North Island Hospital, Comox Valley


20
Peace Arch District Hospital


21
Prince George Regional Hospital


22
Prince Rupert Regional Hospital


23
Queen Victoria Hospital


24
Royal Columbian Hospital


25
Royal Inland Hospital


26
Royal Jubilee Hospital


27
Sechelt Hospital/shíshálh Hospital


28
Surrey Memorial Hospital


29
Trail Regional Hospital


30
U.B.C. Health Sciences Centre Hospital


31
Vancouver General Hospital


32
Vernon Jubilee Hospital


33
Victoria General Hospital


34
West Coast General Hospital





