




InBC Investment Corp. Act
[SBC 2021] CHAPTER 13


Assented to May 20, 2021




Part 1 — Definitions





Definitions




1


In this Act:



"advisory forum"

means the advisory forum established under section 25;


"board"
means the board of directors appointed under section 6;



"chief executive officer"

means the chief executive officer of the corporation, appointed by the
board under section 15 (1);



"chief investment officer"

means the chief investment officer of the corporation, appointed by
the board under section 16 (1);



"corporation"

means InBC Investment Corp. as continued under section 2 (1);


"director"
means a member of the board;



"Minister of Finance"

has the same meaning as in the

Financial Administration Act

.




Part 2 — InBC Investment Corp.





InBC Investment Corp. continued




2

(1)


InBC Investment Corp. is continued as a corporation consisting of the
board.




(2)

The capital of the corporation is 2 shares with a par value
of $1.




(3)

One share in the corporation must be issued to and registered in the
name of the minister, and the minister must hold that share on behalf
of the government.




(4)

One share in the corporation must be issued to and registered in the
name of the Minister of Finance, and the Minister of Finance must hold
that share on behalf of the government.




(5)

For certainty, upon the continuation of the corporation under
subsection (1),




(a)

the property, rights and interests of InBC Investment Corp., as
incorporated under the

Business Corporations Act

, continue to be the property, rights and interests of the
corporation,




(b)

the corporation is liable for all obligations of InBC Investment
Corp., as incorporated under the

Business Corporations Act

,




(c)

any cause of action, claim or liability to prosecution that existed in
relation to InBC Investment Corp., as incorporated under the

Business Corporations Act

, continues in relation to the corporation,




(d)

any legal proceeding initiated or pending by or against InBC
Investment Corp., as incorporated under the

Business Corporations Act

, is continued by or against the corporation, and




(e)

any conviction against, or ruling, order or judgment in favour of or
against, InBC Investment Corp., as incorporated under the

Business Corporations Act

, is enforceable by or against the corporation.






Corporation is agent of government




3

(1)


The corporation is an agent of the government.




(2)

The corporation, as an agent of the government, is not liable to
taxation except to the extent that the government is liable.






Purposes of corporation




4

(1)


The purposes of the corporation are as follows:




(a)

to make investments that achieve a financial return;




(b)

to make investments that support the social, economic and
environmental policy objectives of the government.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply in respect of investments that are made
under agreements that were in place before this Act comes into force.






Capacity and powers




5


The corporation has the capacity and powers of a natural person of
full capacity.




Part 3 — Governance





Board of directors




6

(1)


The corporation is to be managed by a board of directors.




(2)

The board is to consist of the following directors appointed by the
Lieutenant Governor in Council on the recommendation of the minister,
provided under section 7 (2):




(a)

2 directors from the public service;




(b)

up to 7 directors from outside the public service.




(3)

The chair of the board is a director who




(a)

is designated in writing as chair by the minister, after consultation
with the Minister of Finance, or




(b)

if a chair is not designated under paragraph (a), is appointed by the
board under the bylaws of the corporation.




(4)

The board must elect a vice chair from among the directors.






Nomination and recommendation process




7

(1)


In accordance with requirements specified by the minister, the board
must submit to the minister the names of individuals the board
recommends for membership on the board.




(2)

The minister, after consultation with the Minister of Finance, may
recommend to the Lieutenant Governor in Council that the Lieutenant
Governor in Council appoint to the board an individual recommended to
the minister under subsection (1).






Term of office and reappointment




8


An individual may be appointed as a director for a term of up to
3 years and may be reappointed for additional terms of up to
3 years each.






Termination of appointment




9


The minister and the Minister of Finance, acting jointly, may order
the termination of a director's appointment to the board.






When directors cease to hold office




10

(1)


A director ceases to hold office when




(a)

the director's term of office expires,




(b)

the director resigns or dies, or




(c)

the director's appointment to the board is terminated under section 9.




(2)

The resignation of a director takes effect on the latest of the
following:




(a)

the date and time that the director's written resignation is provided
to the minister;




(b)

if the written resignation specifies that the resignation is to take
effect




(i)

on a specified date, the beginning of the specified date,




(ii)

on a specified date and at a specified time, the specified date and
time, or




(iii)

on the occurrence of a specified event, the occurrence of the
specified event.






Duties and powers of board




11

(1)


The board must manage the affairs of the corporation or supervise the
management of those affairs.




(2)

The board




(a)

may exercise the powers conferred on it under this Act,




(b)

may exercise the powers of the corporation on behalf of the
corporation, and




(c)

must supervise the delegation of any of its powers or duties.




(3)

The board may pass the resolutions or bylaws it considers necessary or
advisable for the management and conduct of the affairs of the
corporation and for the exercise of the powers and duties of the
board.




(4)

Without limiting subsections (2) and (3), the board must pass bylaws
that establish a policy, applicable to directors and senior officers,
on the disclosure of interests and the handling of conflicts of
interest.




(5)

Without limiting subsections (2) and (3) but subject to section 13,
the board may pass resolutions or bylaws respecting the calling and
holding of meetings of the board or committees of the board and the
procedures to be followed at those meetings.




(6)

The board may establish committees of the board to assist the board,
which committees




(a)

must be chaired by a director, and




(b)

may include members of the advisory forum, if any.




(7)

For the purposes of subsections (1) and (2), the board may, by
resolution or bylaw, delegate any power or duty of the board or the
corporation except




(a)

the power to establish committees of the board,




(b)

the power to pass resolutions or bylaws respecting the procedures to
be followed at meetings of the board,




(c)

the duty to appoint a chief executive officer and a chief investment
officer, and




(d)

the power to delegate.






Board remuneration




12


In accordance with the general directives of Treasury Board, the board
may




(a)

pay remuneration to directors, and




(b)

reimburse or pay an allowance to directors for reasonable travelling
and out-of-pocket expenses necessarily incurred in carrying out the
directors' duties.






Meetings and quorum of board




13

(1)


The board must meet at least 6 times in each year.




(2)

The chair is to preside at all meetings of the board but, in the
absence of the chair, the vice chair is to preside.




(3)

In the absence of the chair and the vice chair, the directors who are
present at a meeting of the board must designate one of those present
to preside.




(4)

At any meeting of the board, a majority of the directors holding
office must be present to constitute a quorum.




(5)

The affirmative votes of a majority of the directors present at a
meeting of the board at which a quorum is constituted are sufficient
to pass a resolution or bylaw of the corporation.




(6)

A director may participate in, and vote at, a meeting of the board




(a)

in person, or




(b)

by any communications medium that enables all participants in the
meeting to communicate with one another during the meeting.




(7)

A director who participates in a meeting in a manner described in
subsection (6) (b) is deemed to be present in person at the
meeting.




(8)

A resolution in writing, signed by all the directors and filed with
the minutes of the proceedings of the directors, is valid and as
effective as if the resolution had been passed in the usual manner at
a meeting of the board.






Duties of directors and officers




14


A director or officer of the corporation, when exercising the powers
and performing the duties of a director or officer of the corporation,
as the case may be, must




(a)

act honestly and in good faith, with a view to the best interests of
the corporation,




(b)

exercise the care, diligence and skill that a reasonably prudent
individual would exercise in comparable circumstances, and




(c)

act in accordance with this Act and the regulations.






Chief executive officer




15

(1)


The board must appoint an individual as the chief executive officer of
the corporation.




(2)

The board may determine the remuneration and the terms and conditions
of employment of the chief executive officer.




(3)

The chief executive officer is responsible for the general supervision
and direction of the operations of the corporation and its employees
and other officers and must exercise the powers and perform the duties
that are specified in the bylaws or resolutions of the board.






Chief investment officer




16

(1)


The chief executive officer must, on the recommendation of the board,
appoint an individual as the chief investment officer of the
corporation.




(2)

The board, on the recommendation of the chief executive officer, may
determine the remuneration and the terms and conditions of employment
of the chief investment officer.




(3)

The chief investment officer must ensure that investments of the
assets of the corporation are made in accordance with the purposes of
the corporation as set out in section 4.




(4)

For the purposes of subsection (3), the policy objectives referred to
in section 4 (1) (b) are to be determined by the minister
and the Minister of Finance, acting jointly, and communicated in
writing to the chief investment officer by the chair of the board.






Officers and employees




17

(1)


The chief executive officer may appoint officers and employees of the
corporation, as necessary, to carry on the business and operations of
the corporation and may define their duties.




(2)

The

Public Service Act

and the

Public Service Labour Relations Act

do not apply to the corporation or the officers and employees of the
corporation.




(3)

The

Public Service Benefit Plan Act

applies to the corporation and its officers and employees.




(4)

The Public Service Pension Plan, continued under the

Public Sector Pension Plans Act

, applies to the corporation and its officers and employees.




Part 4 — Financial Administration



Division 1 — Investment Independence





Investment independence




18

(1)


No person other than the chief investment officer or an external fund
manager retained by the corporation may make an investment decision.




(2)

Subject to section 16 (3), in making an investment decision on
behalf of the corporation,




(a)

the chief investment officer is not subject to direction from anyone,
and




(b)

an external fund manager is not subject to direction from anyone other
than the chief investment officer.




(3)

For certainty, in making investment decisions on behalf of the
corporation, the chief investment officer and an external fund manager
are not subject to direction from any of the following:




(a)

the government;




(b)

a minister;




(c)

the board or a director;




(d)

the chief executive officer;




(e)

any other public officer.




Division 2 — Financial Administration





Financial administration




19

(1)


The corporation must establish and maintain an accounting system
satisfactory to the Minister of Finance and must, whenever required by
that minister, render detailed accounts of the corporation's revenues
and expenditures for the period or to the date that the Minister of
Finance specifies.




(2)

The corporation must prepare financial statements in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles.




(3)

All books or records of account, documents and other financial records
must at all times be open for inspection by the minister or the
Minister of Finance, or by a person designated by either of those
ministers.




(4)

The Minister of Finance may direct the Comptroller General to report
to Treasury Board on any aspect of the financial administration of the
corporation.




(5)

Unless the Auditor General is appointed, in accordance with the

Auditor General Act

, as the auditor of the corporation, the corporation must appoint an
auditor to audit the accounts of the corporation at least once in each
year.




(6)

The fiscal year of the corporation begins on April 1 in each year
and ends on March 31 in the following year.




(7)

The Minister of Finance is the fiscal agent of the corporation.






No borrowing or deficit




20

(1)


The corporation must not borrow money without the prior written
approval of the Minister of Finance.




(2)

The corporation must not incur or budget for a deficit, as determined
in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, for a
fiscal year without the prior written approval of the minister and the
Minister of Finance.






Corporation revenue




21


Subject to section 20 (2), money received by the corporation from
any source may be retained by the corporation to be used and dealt
with for the corporation's purposes.




Division 3 — Reports and Reviews





Definition




22


In this Division,
"performance"
, in relation to an investment of the corporation other than an
investment made under an agreement in place before this Act comes into
force, includes the extent to which the investment advances the policy
objectives referred to in section 16 (4).






Annual reports




23

(1)


The corporation must, for each fiscal year of the corporation, make a
report to the minister and the Minister of Finance on the performance
of the investments of the corporation.




(2)

A report made under subsection (1) must




(a)

be in the form and manner specified by the minister, and




(b)

include any particular information relating to the performance of the
investments that is specified by the minister or the Minister of
Finance.




(3)

The minister must lay a report made under subsection (1) before the
Legislative Assembly as soon as practicable and, promptly after doing
so, must make the report publicly available.






External reviews




24

(1)


At least once every 5 years, the minister must, after consulting with
the Minister of Finance, appoint a person to review, and to make a
report to the minister and the Minister of Finance on, the performance
of the investments of the corporation during a period specified in
writing by the minister.




(2)

A report made under subsection (1) must




(a)

be in the form and manner specified by the minister, and




(b)

include any particular information relating to the performance of the
investments that is specified by the minister or the Minister of
Finance.




(3)

The minister must lay a report made under subsection (1) before the
Legislative Assembly as soon as practicable and, promptly after doing
so, must make the report publicly available.




Part 5 — Advisory Forum





Advisory forum




25

(1)


The board may establish an advisory forum to provide advice to the
board on matters specified by the board.




(2)

The advisory forum is to consist of up to 12 members, with




(a)

a maximum of 6 members to be appointed by the minister and the
Minister of Finance, acting jointly, and




(b)

a maximum of 6 members to be appointed by the board.




(3)

The board may, in accordance with the regulations, if any,




(a)

pay remuneration to members of the advisory forum, and




(b)

reimburse or pay an allowance to members of the advisory forum for
reasonable travelling and out-of-pocket expenses necessarily incurred
in carrying out their duties as members of the advisory forum.




Part 6 — General





Application of
Business Corporations Act
and
Societies Act




26

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), the

Business Corporations Act

does not apply to the corporation.




(2)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may direct that specified
provisions of the

Business Corporations Act

or the

Societies Act

apply to the corporation.






Application of
Securities Act




27


For the purposes of the

Securities Act

and its regulations, the corporation must be treated in the same
manner that the government is treated under that Act and its
regulations.






Transfer of records




28

(1)


Despite the

Information Management Act

but subject to the regulations,




(a)

the minister may transfer records to the corporation, and




(b)

the corporation may transfer records to the minister.




(2)

On the effective date of a transfer made under subsection (1), the
records cease to be the records of the transferor and become the
records of the transferee.




(3)

For the purposes of a transfer made under subsection (1), records may
be identified by name, class or description.






Section 5 of
Offence Act




29


Section 5 of the

Offence Act

does not apply to this Act or the regulations.






Regulations




30

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
section 41 of the

Interpretation Act

.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations as follows:




(a)

respecting the appointment of members to the advisory forum;




(b)

respecting the composition, structure, governance and activities of
the advisory forum;




(c)

respecting the remuneration to be paid to members of the advisory
forum;




(d)

respecting any allowance to be paid to members of the advisory forum
for travelling and out-of-pocket expenses incurred in carrying out
their duties as members of the advisory forum;




(e)

extending the application of any provision of this Act to a subsidiary
of the corporation;




(f)

requiring the corporation to obtain the prior written approval of the
minister before entering into an agreement with the government of
Canada, the government of a jurisdiction outside Canada, the
government of a province or the governing body of a First Nation, or
with an agent or official of any of these;




(g)

respecting the transfer of records under section 28, including,
without limitation,




(i)

imposing terms and conditions respecting access to or retention of the
records by the minister or the corporation, as applicable,




(ii)

restricting the categories of records that may be transferred, and




(iii)

respecting the manner in which a transfer is to be made;




(h)

respecting any other matter for which regulations of the Lieutenant
Governor in Council are contemplated by this Act.




Part 7 — Transitional Provisions





Transition — board




31


Despite sections 6 (2) and 7, the directors of InBC Investment
Corp. appointed under the

Business Corporations Act

are continued as the directors of the corporation.






Transition — chief executive officer




32


The appointment of the chief executive officer of InBC Investment
Corp. under the

Business Corporations Act

is deemed to have been made under section 15 (1) of this Act.






Transition — shares




33


Any shares in InBC Investment Corp. that are authorized or issued
under the

Business Corporations Act

are cancelled, and the corporation must issue shares in accordance
with section 2 (3) and (4) of this Act.






Transition — cancellation of registration under
Business Corporations Act




34


The registration of InBC Investment Corp. under the

Business Corporations Act

is cancelled.






Transition — regulations




35

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations it considers
necessary or advisable




(a)

to more effectively bring this Act into operation, and




(b)

to remedy any transitional difficulties, in respect of any matter
encountered in the transition from InBC Investment Corp., as
incorporated under the

Business Corporations Act

, to the corporation as continued under this Act.




(2)

For 3 years after the date this Act comes into force, a
regulation made under this section may be made retroactive to a date
not earlier than the date this Act or any provision of this Act comes
into force and, if made retroactive, is deemed to come into force on
the date specified in the regulation.




(3)

This section is repealed 3 years after the date it comes into
force and, on its repeal, any regulations made under it, unless
repealed earlier, are also repealed.






Commencement




36


This Act comes into force on the date of Royal Assent.




