




Industrial Development Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 220






Powers vested in Lieutenant Governor in Council




1

(1)


Despite a law to the contrary, the Lieutenant Governor in Council may
do one or more of the following:




(a)

sell or lease on terms and for a price or rental the Lieutenant
Governor in Council considers advisable to any person who proposes to
establish or expand an aluminum industry in British Columbia, Crown
land or an interest in it, and also on terms and for a price or rental
the Lieutenant Governor in Council considers advisable grant a licence
to that person to store or use any unrecorded water in British
Columbia;




(b)

make other arrangements regarding the future operations of that
industry the Lieutenant Governor in Council believes to be in the best
interest of British Columbia including arrangements for the sale or
transfer of electricity to that person from sources other than the
hydro electric development and works and facilities made and
constructed by that person and on terms and for a price the Lieutenant
Governor in Council considers advisable.




(c)

make with that person arrangements the Lieutenant Governor in Council
considers advisable regarding any future taking by any public
authority of the hydro electric development and works and facilities
made and constructed by that person, including arrangements as to the
manner and extent of the taking, the determination of the compensation
payable in connection with it and the conditions governing the future
supply of electric power from the development so taken;




(d)

authorize the minister to execute an agreement for the purposes of
this subsection.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not authorize the Lieutenant Governor in Council
to grant that person financial assistance by way of loans, subsidies
or in any other manner.




(3)

An agreement entered into under this Act must provide for the
protection that may be considered advisable by the Lieutenant Governor
in Council of fisheries that would be injuriously affected.






Amendment of agreements




2


An agreement made under this Act may be amended or extended if
considered advisable by the Lieutenant Governor in Council, if the
subject matter of the amendment or extension could lawfully have been
incorporated in the original agreement at the time it was made.






Incorporation of industrial township




3


If an agreement made under section 1 provides for the
incorporation of an industrial township, the Lieutenant Governor in
Council may incorporate that area of British Columbia covered by the
agreement into an industrial township, and after that the taxes
payable in respect of the land and improvements in the area
incorporated are, despite any other Act, as provided for in the
agreement.






Regulations for township




4


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations the Lieutenant
Governor in Council considers necessary and expedient for the
administration and conduct of the affairs of an industrial township,
but the rules and regulations must not be inconsistent with the terms
of an agreement made under section 1 relating to the industrial
township.




