




Insurance (Captive Company) Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 227






Definitions




1


In this Act:



"affiliated corporation"

has the same meaning as "affiliate" in section 1 (1) of the

Business Corporations Act

;



"association"

means an association of member organizations that has been in
continuous existence for at least one year, if all the issued
voting shares of the association captive insurance company are owned
by




(a)

all the member organizations,




(b)

all the member organizations who are insured by the company or who
will be insured by the company after purchasing the shares of the
company,




(c)

the association if it has the legal capacity to own the shares, or




(d)

the association if it has the legal capacity to own the shares and
either all the members or all the insured members;



"association captive insurance company"

means a company, within the meaning of the

Business Corporations Act

, that was incorporated to provide insurance for the purpose referred
to in section 5 (3);



"captive insurance company"

means a company that is a pure captive insurance company, an
association captive insurance company or a sophisticated insured
captive insurance company;



"member organization"

means a person that belongs to an association;


"parent"
means




(a)

a corporation that owns all of the issued voting shares of a pure
captive insurance company, or




(b)

a group of affiliated corporations




(i)

each one of which owns issued voting shares of a pure captive
insurance company, and




(ii)

the member corporations of which collectively own all the issued
voting shares of the pure captive insurance company;



"pure captive insurance company"

means a company, within the meaning of the

Business Corporations Act

, that was incorporated to provide insurance for the purpose referred
to in section 5 (2);


"registrant"
means a captive insurance company registered under this Act;



"sophisticated insured"

means an insured




(a)

who, in the opinion of the superintendent, has expertise in insurance
matters, and




(b)

whose aggregate annual premiums for insurance on all risks insured by
an insurance company total at least a prescribed amount;



"sophisticated insured captive insurance company"

means a company, within the meaning of the

Business Corporations Act

, that was incorporated to provide insurance for the purpose referred
to in section 5 (4);



"sophisticated insured group"

means a group of sophisticated insureds each member of which owns
issued voting shares of, and the members of which collectively own all
the issued voting shares of, a sophisticated insured captive insurance
company;



"superintendent"

means the superintendent as defined in the

Financial Institutions Act

.






Conflicts with other enactments




2


In the case of a conflict between this Act or the regulations and any
other Act or other regulations, this Act and its regulations prevail
unless the other Act or other regulation contains an express provision
that it, or a provision of it, applies despite this Act or its
regulations.






Application of other Acts to captive insurance companies




3

(1)


Sections 34 to 37, 39 to 46, 63, 64 (2), 70, 75, 80, 81, 105, 133,
211, 213, 215, 218, 243, 244, 246, 247 and 259 of the

Financial Institutions Act

and the prescribed provisions of the

Insurance Act

apply to a captive insurance company.




(2)

For the purposes of applying the provisions of the

Financial Institutions Act

referred to in subsection (1) to a captive insurance company,
"business authorization" includes registration of a captive insurance
company under this Act.




(3)

The prescribed provisions of the

Insurance Act

apply to an association captive insurance company and a sophisticated
insured captive insurance company.




(4)

Other than the sections of the

Financial Institutions Act

referred to in subsection (1) and the provisions of the

Insurance Act

prescribed for the purposes of subsections (1) and (3), those Acts do
not apply to a captive insurance company.




(5)

Divisions 4 and 8 of Part 9 of the

Business Corporations Act

do not apply to a captive insurance company.






Use of term "captive insurance company" in company name




4

(1)


A captive insurance company must not carry on business under a name
that includes the word "insurance" or a form of the word, but it may
carry on business under a name that includes the phrase "captive
insurance company".




(2)

A company other than a captive insurance company must not carry on
business under a name that includes the phrase "captive insurance
company".






Permitted business for a captive insurance company




5

(1)


A captive insurance company must not carry on any type of business
other than the business of insurance or the business of risk
management.




(2)

A pure captive insurance company may undertake only prescribed classes
of insurance and only for the purpose of insuring




(a)

its parent and the parent's affiliated corporations, and




(b)

the officers, directors, employees, agents and independent contractors
of itself, its parent or an affiliated corporation referred to in
paragraph (a) against losses incurred while acting on behalf of
itself, the parent or the parent's affiliated corporation.




(3)

An association captive insurance company may undertake only prescribed
classes of insurance and only for the purpose of insuring




(a)

the member organizations of its association and their affiliated
corporations, and




(b)

the officers, directors, employees, agents and independent contractors
of itself, a member organization or an affiliated corporation referred
to in paragraph (a) against losses incurred while acting on behalf of
the member organization or affiliated corporation.




(4)

A sophisticated insured captive insurance company may undertake only
prescribed classes of insurance and only for the purpose of insuring




(a)

the sophisticated insureds that comprise its sophisticated insured
group and their affiliated corporations, and




(b)

the officers, directors, employees, agents and independent contractors
of itself, a sophisticated insured or an affiliated corporation
referred to in paragraph (a) against losses incurred while acting on
behalf of the sophisticated insured or affiliated corporation.






Registration of captive insurance companies




6

(1)


A captive insurance company must not carry on business unless it is
registered by the superintendent.




(2)

The superintendent must not register a captive insurance company
unless the company satisfies the superintendent as to




(a)

its ability to meet its present and future obligations, and




(b)

other prescribed matters.




(3)

The superintendent may




(a)

establish conditions that must be met by an applicant before
registration,




(b)

grant initial registration for a period, or




(c)

refuse to grant initial registration.




(4)

The superintendent may refuse to renew registration only in accordance
with section 11.




(5)

Registration expires and may be renewed as set out in the regulations.






Superintendent's consent required




7


A captive insurance company must not, without first informing and
obtaining the consent of the superintendent,




(a)

amalgamate,




(b)

wilfully take any action that would facilitate a change in the actual
control of the company, or




(c)

change its memorandum, notice of articles or articles.






Shareholders' equity and reserves




8

(1)


Before initial registration a captive insurance company must have, and
after initial registration a captive insurance company must maintain,
shareholders' equity, calculated in accordance with the regulations,
of at least the greater of




(a)

the amount prescribed, and




(b)

the amount the superintendent considers necessary to maintain the
solvency of the company.




(2)

After initial registration a captive insurance company must maintain
reserves, calculated in accordance with the regulations, of at least
the greater of




(a)

the amount prescribed, and




(b)

the amount the superintendent considers necessary to maintain the
solvency of the company.






Reports and statements




9

(1)


Each year a captive insurance company must file with the
superintendent, in the form required by the superintendent




(a)

a financial statement audited by an auditor approved by the
superintendent, and




(b)

an actuarial statement prepared by an actuary or other person or class
of person approved by the superintendent.




(2)

If a captive insurance company enters into a guarantee or indemnity
under which a parent, sophisticated insured, member organization or a
corporation that is an affiliated corporation with respect to any of
them, may incur liability for the benefit of the captive insurance
company, the captive insurance company must file a copy of the
guarantee or indemnity with the superintendent within 30 days
after its execution.




(3)

The superintendent may, at any time, require information from a
captive insurance company concerning its solvency or the conduct of
its business, and the company must provide the information fully,
promptly and in the manner required by the superintendent.




(4)

The superintendent may, at any time, require information from a
parent, member organization, sophisticated insured or a person who is
an affiliated corporation of any of them concerning the solvency of
the captive insurance company or the conduct of its business, and the
person must provide the information fully, promptly and in the manner
required by the superintendent.






Inspection of records




10

(1)


The superintendent may, personally or by a person appointed by the
superintendent, attend the premises of a captive insurance company and
inspect its records during normal business hours.




(2)

A person must not obstruct an inspection under this section.






Conditions, suspension, refusal, revocation




11

(1)


After giving a captive insurance company an opportunity to be heard,
the superintendent may report to the minister as to whether




(a)

the ability of the company to meet its present and future obligations
is uncertain,




(b)

insureds can reasonably rely on insurance written by the company,




(c)

the company has failed to pay, within the time required by the

Insurance Act

, an undisputed claim for which the insurer is liable,




(d)

the company has failed to comply with a requirement of an enactment,




(e)

an officer, director or person having primary responsibility for the
day to day management of the company's affairs is incompetent or
untrustworthy, or




(f)

it is in the public interest for the company to continue to be
registered.




(2)

On receiving a report of the superintendent under subsection (1),
after or without hearing the company, the minister may impose
conditions on the company, suspend or revoke its registration or order
the superintendent to refuse to renew its registration.




(3)

If the minister considers that the length of time that would be
required to give a captive insurance company an opportunity to be
heard under subsection (1) would be prejudicial to the public
interest, the minister may, without giving the company an opportunity
to be heard, decide to impose conditions, suspend or revoke
registration or refuse to renew registration, but, in this case, the
minister must immediately notify the company in writing of the
decision and the reasons for it.




(4)

If the minister makes a decision under subsection (3), within 49 days
after the decision, the superintendent must give the company an
opportunity to be heard and make the report to the minister referred
to in subsection (1).




(5)

During a suspension, revocation or refusal of renewal, the company
must not carry on business, except for winding up its affairs in
British Columbia and complying with this Act and any other applicable
law, but nothing in this section prejudicially affects a policy holder
or creditor of the insurer.




(6)

The minister may, after or without a hearing, cancel a condition,
suspension or revocation or order refusing renewal, without conditions
or on the conditions the minister thinks appropriate.




(7)

Notice of the imposition of conditions or of a suspension, revocation
or refusal to renew, or of a cancellation under subsection (6), must




(a)

be given to the company by the superintendent,




(b)

be published by the superintendent in the Gazette at the cost of the
company, and




(c)

be given by the company to its insureds.






Offences




12

(1)


A person who




(a)

is required by this Act to comply with a provision of the

Financial Institutions Act

, the

Insurance Act

or the

Business Corporations Act

, a contravention of which constitutes an offence under that Act or
under the

Offence Act

, and




(b)

fails to comply with the provision


commits an offence under the applicable Act or the

Offence Act

, as the case may be, and is liable to the penalty provided in the
applicable Act or the

Offence Act

, as the case may be, and a provision that applies to the offence
under the applicable Act applies as if the offence were committed
under that Act.




(2)

A person commits an offence who




(a)

makes a statement in any record or information required or given under
section 6, 7 or 9 that would mislead a reasonable
person with respect to a statement or omission of a material fact, or




(b)

contravenes section 4 (2) or 10 (2).




(3)

A captive insurance company that contravenes section 4 (1), 5, 6 (1),
7, 8, 9, or 11 (5) or (7) (b) commits an offence.




(4)

If a corporation commits an offence under this section, every director
or officer of the corporation who authorized, permitted or acquiesced
in the offence also commits the offence.




(5)

A corporation convicted of an offence under subsection (2), (3) or (4)
is liable to a fine of $100 000.




(6)

An individual convicted of an offence under subsection (2), (3) or (4)
is liable to either a fine of $100 000 or to imprisonment for not more
than 5 years less one day.




(7)

Section 5 of the

Offence Act

does not apply to this Act or the regulations.






Personal liability protection




12.1

(1)


In this section:


"Authority"
means the BC Financial Services Authority established under section 2
of the

Financial Services Authority Act

;



"protected individual"

means an individual who is any of the following:




(a)

the superintendent;




(b)

an individual acting on behalf of or under the direction of the
superintendent.




(2)

Subject to subsection (3), no legal proceeding for damages lies or may
be commenced or maintained against a protected individual because of
anything done or omitted




(a)

in the exercise or intended exercise of any power under this Act, or




(b)

in the performance or intended performance of any duty under this Act.




(3)

Subsection (2) does not apply to a protected individual in relation to
anything done or omitted in bad faith.




(4)

Subsection (2) does not absolve the Authority from vicarious liability
arising out of anything done or omitted by a protected individual for
which the Authority would be vicariously liable if this section were
not in force.






Power to make regulations




13

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
section 41 of the

Interpretation Act

.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations respecting:




(a)

the creation of discretionary powers exercisable by the
superintendent;




(b)

the solvency of captive insurance companies;




(c)

registration and renewal of registration, including conditions
required to be met before or after registration;




(d)

fees;




(e)

advertising or holding out by a captive insurance company;




(f)

registers;




(g)

examinations;




(h)

hearings;




(i)

disclosure statements;




(j)

the incorporation of captive insurance companies;




(k)

the disapplication, in respect of a captive insurance company or class
of captive insurance company, of all or part of




(i)

this Act,




(ii)

the

Insurance Act

,




(iii)

the

Company Act

,




(iii.1)

the

Business Corporations Act

,




(iv)

the

Financial Institutions Act

, or




(v)

regulations made under any of the Acts referred to in this paragraph;




(k.1)

the application, in respect of a captive insurance company or a class
of captive insurance companies, of provisions of the

Insurance Act

;




(l)

information required to be supplied by a captive insurance company to
the superintendent or Registrar of Companies;




(m)

the definition, for the purpose of this Act, of any word or expression
not defined in this Act.




(3)

A regulation under this section may prescribe different regulations
for different persons or classes of persons.




