




Judicial Compensation Act
[SBC 2003] CHAPTER 59


Assented to October 23, 2003






Definitions




1

(1)


In this Act:


"commission"
means the Judicial Compensation Commission formed under section 2;



"fiscal year"

, except in Part 3, means the period beginning on April 1 in one year
and ending on March 31 in the next year;


"lawyer"
means a member or former member of the Law Society of British
Columbia;



"Public Service Pension Plan"

means the Public Service Pension Plan continued under the Public
Service Pension Plan Joint Trust Agreement;



"Public Service Pension Plan Joint Trust Agreement"

means the agreement established under section 18 of Schedule C of the

Public Sector Pension Plans Act

.




(2)

The definitions in the

Provincial Court Act

, except where a contrary definition is set out in this Act, apply to
this Act.




Part 1 — Judicial Compensation Commission





Judicial Compensation Commission




2

(1)


On or before March 1, 2022 and on or before March 1 in every fourth
year after that, 5 individuals must be appointed, in accordance with
subsection (2), to form the Judicial Compensation Commission.




(2)

The individuals forming the Judicial Compensation Commission must be
appointed as follows:




(a)

the minister must appoint 2 individuals;




(b)

the chief judge, after consulting with the Provincial Court Judges'
Association of British Columbia and the Judicial Justices Association
of British Columbia, must appoint 2 individuals;




(c)

the individuals appointed under paragraphs (a) and (b) must appoint
one other individual to the commission to chair that commission.






Repealed




3


[Repealed 2015-6-21.]






Commission members




4

(1)


If there is a vacancy on the commission, an individual must be
appointed in the same manner as the individual who vacated the
position was appointed, and the appointment is subject to the
exclusions specified under subsections (3) and (3.1).




(2)

An individual appointed to the commission may be reappointed to a
subsequent commission.




(3)

The following may not be appointed to the commission:




(a)

a judge or judicial justice;




(b)

a retired judge or retired judicial justice;




(c)

a person employed in the public service or by a Crown corporation;




(d)

a member or former member of the judicial council continued under
section 21 of the

Provincial Court Act

.




(3.1)

At least one of the individuals appointed under section 2 (2) (a) and
(b) must be someone who is not a lawyer.




(4)

The members of the commission must be reimbursed for travelling
expenses reasonably and necessarily incurred in the discharge of their
duties, and, in addition, may be paid remuneration specified by the
Lieutenant Governor in Council.






Report and recommendations




5

(1)


Not later than October 1 following its formation, the commission must,
in a preliminary report to the minister and chief judge,




(a)

report on all matters respecting the remuneration, allowances and
benefits of judges and judicial justices, and




(b)

make recommendations with respect to those matters for each of the
next 4 fiscal years.




(2)

Within 14 days of receiving the preliminary report, the minister or
chief judge may apply to the commission for a clarification of a
matter in the report or in respect of a matter the commission did not
address in the report.




(3)

If an application is made under subsection (2), the commission must
make a final report to the minister not later than October 30
following its formation.




(4)

If an application is not made under subsection (2), the preliminary
report is the final report.




(5)

In preparing a report, the commission must be guided by the need to
provide reasonable compensation for judges and judicial justices in
British Columbia over the 4 fiscal years that are the subject of
the report, taking into account all of the following:




(a)

the need to maintain a strong court by attracting highly qualified
applicants;




(b)

changes, if any, to the jurisdiction of judges or judicial justices;




(c)

compensation provided in respect of similar judicial positions in
Canada, having regard to the differences between those jurisdictions
and British Columbia;




(d)

changes in the compensation of others paid by provincial public funds
in British Columbia;




(e)

the generally accepted current and expected economic conditions in
British Columbia;




(f)

the current and expected financial position of the government over the
4 fiscal years that are the subject of the report.




(5.1)

The report of the commission must demonstrate that the commission has
considered all of the factors set out in subsection (5).




(5.2)

The commission may consider factors it considers relevant that are not
set out in subsection (5), but if it relies on another factor, the
report of the commission must explain the relevance of the factor.




(6)

Before preparing a report, the commission may




(a)

write and receive submissions,




(b)

hold hearings in the manner the commission may decide, and




(c)

with the approval of the minister, engage and retain consultants the
commission considers necessary.






Lieutenant Governor in Council may accept all recommendations




5.1

(1)


Within 15 days after the minister receives the final report of the
commission, the minister must




(a)

lay the report before the Legislative Assembly if the Legislative
Assembly is then sitting, or




(b)

file the report with the Clerk of the Legislative Assembly if the
Legislative Assembly is not sitting.




(2)

After the report is laid before the Legislative Assembly or filed with
the Clerk of the Legislative Assembly but not later than January 31
following the receipt of the report by the minister, the Lieutenant
Governor in Council may accept all the recommendations made in the
final report of the commission.




(3)

If all the recommendations are accepted under subsection (2), the
judges and judicial justices are entitled to receive the remuneration,
allowances and benefits proposed by those recommendations beginning on
April 1 of the year following the year referred to in, or applicable
under, section 2 (1).




(4)

If a recommendation referred to in subsection (2) conflicts with a
provision of this Act, the recommendation prevails over that provision
to the extent of the conflict.




(5)

A recommendation referred to in subsection (2) may set different
salaries for different responsibilities.




(6)

Section 6 does not apply if the Lieutenant Governor in Council accepts
all the recommendations made in the final report of the commission.






Reports before the Legislative Assembly




6

(1)


The minister must lay the final report of the commission before the
Legislative Assembly, and must advise the Legislative Assembly about
the effect of subsection (3),




(a)

within 7 sitting days of the Legislative Assembly after
January 31 following the date on which the minister receives the
report, and




(b)

if the Legislative Assembly is prorogued or dissolved within 16
sitting days after the date on which the report is laid before the
Legislative Assembly and the Legislative Assembly has not passed a
resolution under subsection (2), within 7 sitting days after the
opening of the next session.




(c)

[Repealed 2012-6-6.]




(2)

The Legislative Assembly may, by a resolution passed within 16 sitting
days after the date on which a report is laid before the Legislative
Assembly under subsection (1),




(a)

reject one or more of the recommendations made in the report, and




(b)

set the remuneration, allowances or benefits that are to be
substituted for the remuneration, allowances or benefits proposed by
the rejected recommendations.




(3)

If a recommendation is not rejected by the Legislative Assembly within
the time limited by subsection (2), the judges or judicial justices
are entitled to receive the remuneration, allowances and benefits
proposed by that recommendation beginning on April 1 of the year
following the year referred to in, or applicable under, section 2 (1).




(4)

If the Legislative Assembly does resolve to reject a recommendation
under subsection (2) (a), the judges or judicial justices
are, in respect of that recommendation, entitled to receive the
remuneration, allowances and benefits set by the resolution under
subsection (2) (b) beginning on April 1 of the year
following the year referred to in, or applicable under, section 2 (1).




(5)

If the 16 sitting days specified in subsection (2) end after April 1
of the year for which the recommendations in the report, subject to
subsection (2), were to apply, the recommendation applicable under
subsection (3) or the resolution applicable under subsection (4) is
retroactive to the extent necessary to give effect to the
recommendation or resolution on April 1 of that year.




(6)

If a resolution referred to in subsection (2) or a recommendation
referred to in subsection (3) conflicts with a provision of this Act,
the resolution or recommendation prevails over that provision to the
extent of the conflict.




(7)

A resolution referred to in subsection (2) or a recommendation
referred to in subsection (3) may set different salaries for
different responsibilities.






Implementation clarifications




7


On the application of both the minister and chief judge, the
commission may provide clarification or directions with respect to the
implementation of a recommendation.






Appropriation




7.1

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), the government may pay out of the
consolidated revenue fund the reasonable costs, incurred by the
Provincial Court Judges' Association of British Columbia and the
Judicial Justices Association of British Columbia, of participating in
the commission.




(2)

The maximum amount that may be paid under subsection (1), which
maximum amount applies separately to the Provincial Court Judges'
Association of British Columbia and the Judicial Justices Association
of British Columbia, is as follows:




(a)

the first $30 000 in costs;




(b)

2/3 of the costs over $30 000 but under $150 000.




(3)

Despite subsections (1) and (2), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may, by regulation, set higher amounts for the purposes of subsection
(2).




Part 2 — Salary and Benefits





Salary of judges




8

(1)


Subject to subsections (2) and (2.1), a judge must be paid, out of the
consolidated revenue fund, a salary




(a)

recommended by a report laid before the Legislative Assembly under
section 6 (1),




(b)

if a resolution is passed by the Legislative Assembly under section 6
(2), set by the resolution, or




(c)

recommended by a report and accepted by the Lieutenant Governor in
Council under section 5.1 (2).




(2)

A senior judge's salary in any year




(a)

must not exceed 40% of the salary of a full time judge, and




(b)

must not exceed the difference between the salary to which a full time
judge is entitled for that year and the senior judge's pension for
that year.




(2.1)

The limits imposed under subsection (2) on a senior judge's salary may
be exceeded, by an amount no greater than 20% of the maximum permitted
under that subsection, if




(a)

the chief judge authorizes the senior judge to sit in excess of that
senior judge's scheduled sittings for the year, and




(b)

the extra sittings are necessary, in the chief judge's opinion, to
meet urgent and unforeseen needs of the court, including needs arising
from the illness or injury of another judge.




(3)

For the purpose of calculating a senior judge's salary under this
section, the chief judge may require the judge to give written notice
of




(a)

the normal form of the judge's pension calculated before any election
of pension options and before any pension division or deduction from
the pension, and




(b)

any adjustments or changes to the pension the judge receives.






Remuneration of judicial justices




9

(1)


A full time judicial justice must be paid, out of the consolidated
revenue fund, a salary




(a)

recommended by a report laid before the Legislative Assembly under
section 6 (1),




(b)

if a resolution is passed by the Legislative Assembly under section 6
(2), set by the resolution, or




(c)

recommended by a report and accepted by the Lieutenant Governor in
Council under section 5.1 (2).




(2)

A part time judicial justice must be paid, out of the consolidated
revenue fund, a per diem rate




(a)

recommended by a report laid before the Legislative Assembly under
section 6 (1),




(b)

if a resolution is passed by the Legislative Assembly under section 6
(2), set by the resolution, or




(c)

recommended by a report and accepted by the Lieutenant Governor in
Council under section 5.1 (2).






Expenses reimbursed




10


A judge or judicial justice must be reimbursed for reasonable
travelling and out of pocket expenses incurred by the judge or
judicial justice in discharging the judge's or judicial justice's
duties.






Vacation leave




11


The chief judge is responsible for scheduling the annual vacation of
judges and full time judicial justices.






Leave of absence




12

(1)


The chief judge may in special circumstances grant a judge or full
time judicial justice leave of absence from duties for more than the
maximum annual vacation to which the judge or full time judicial
justice is entitled, at a salary, if any, that the chief judge
determines.




(2)

If the chief judge believes that a judge or full time judicial justice
who has not been granted a leave of absence under subsection (1) has
been absent for more than the maximum annual vacation to which the
judge or full time judicial justice is entitled, the chief judge must
report the absence to the minister.






Sickness or disability benefit plan




13


A judge or full time judicial justice who is entitled to receive
benefits under a sickness or disability benefit plan for, or
applicable to, judges or full time judicial justices is not entitled
to the judge's or judicial justice's salary except as provided in the
plan.






Temporary assignment judges or temporary judges




14

(1)


Subject to subsection (2) but despite any other provision of this Act,
a judge serving under section 7 of the

Provincial Court Act

or appointed under section 8 of the

Provincial Court Act

is not entitled to payment by the government of remuneration,
expenses, vacation benefits, pension benefits, sickness or disability
benefits or any other kind of payment merely because of services
rendered or costs incurred as a result of the service or appointment.




(2)

If the minister authorizes payment of an amount to the judge appointed
under section 8 of the

Provincial Court Act

or to the province from which the judge comes, or to both, as some or
all of the remuneration or expenses of the judge, the payment may be
made.






Application of Public Service Pension Plan to judicial justices




15


The Public Service Pension Plan applies to a full time judicial
justice on the full time judicial justice delivering to the Public
Service Pension Board of Trustees notice of that full time judicial
justice's election to have the plan apply to that full time judicial
justice.




Part 3 — Judges' Pensions





Definitions and interpretation




16

(1)


In this Part:



"active member"

means, except in section 24, a judge who, on or after January 1,
2001, is making, or is deemed to be making, contributions to the
pension fund in respect of service as a judge, and includes a judge
who is




(a)

on a leave of absence approved by the chief judge,




(b)

receiving a group disability plan benefit, or




(c)

no longer required by this Act or the pension plan rules to contribute
to the pension fund,


but does not include a judge who has ceased to hold office or who is
receiving a pension benefit;


"actuary"
means an actuary retained by the board in accordance with the Public
Service Pension Plan Joint Trust Agreement;


"board"
has the same meaning as "public service board" in section 1 (1) of the

Public Sector Pension Plans Act

;



"judicial service"

means pensionable service for which contributions to the pension fund
have been made, or are deemed to have been made, in respect of service
as a judge;



"latest retirement age"

means the age at which a judge ceases to hold office under
section 17 (3) of the

Provincial Court Act

;



"pension fund"

means the Public Service Pension Fund continued under the Public
Service Pension Plan Joint Trust Agreement;



"pension plan rules"

mean the rules of the Public Service Pension Plan.




(2)

The definitions in the pension plan rules, except where a contrary
definition is set out in this Part, apply to this Part.






Application of Public Service Pension Plan to judges




17

(1)


Subject to this Part, the Public Service Pension Plan continues to
apply to every judge.




(2)

The pension plan rules are subject to this Part, and apply with the
necessary changes and so far as they are applicable.




(3)

If there is a conflict or inconsistency between this Part and the
pension plan rules, this Part prevails.




(4)

A decision of the plan administrative agent respecting the application
of this Part and the pension plan rules may, by written notice, be
appealed to the board in accordance with the practice and procedure
for appeals to the board.






Contributions to pension fund




18

(1)


The board




(a)

must, based on the recommendations of an actuary, determine the total
amount of the contributions required to fund the pension benefits
provided under this Act, and




(b)

may change the amount determined under paragraph (a) if the board
receives a recommendation by an actuary that a change in the amount is
required to fund the pension benefits provided under this Act.




(1.1)

The total amount of the contributions required to fund the pension
benefits provided under this Act, as determined under subsection (1),
must be paid as follows:




(a)

the active members must contribute 24% of that amount;




(b)

the government must contribute 76% of that amount.




(1.2)

Instead of the contributions required by the pension plan rules,




(a)

the government must deduct 8.38%, or, if subsection (6) applies, the
percentage determined under subsection (6) (a) (i), from each payment
of salary made to an active member and pay that amount to the pension
fund, as a contribution from the member, and




(b)

each time the government deducts and pays an active member's
contributions in accordance with paragraph (a), the government must
pay to the pension fund, as a contribution from the government,
26.55%, or, if subsection (6) applies, the percentage determined under
subsection (6) (a) (ii), of the active member's salary.




(2)

An active member who stopped contributing before January 1, 2001 after
reaching 35 years of pensionable service, determined in
accordance with the

Provincial Court Act

and the pension plan rules as they both read on December 31, 2000,
may, effective January 1, 2001, at the active member's option, resume
making contributions in accordance with subsection (1.2) (a) or (6)
(a) (i), as applicable.




(3)

If an active member referred to in subsection (2) resumes making
contributions in accordance with subsection (1.2) (a) or (6) (a) (i),
the government must resume making contributions in accordance with
subsection (1.2) (b) or (6) (a) (ii), as applicable.




(4)

Member contributions and government contributions under this section
must stop on the earlier of




(a)

the member reaching latest retirement age, and




(b)

the member accruing the maximum pension referred to in section 21 (6),
in which case the member is deemed to continue as an active member
until the member ceases employment.




(5)

Member contributions and government contributions under this section
must be allocated to the pension fund accounts as determined by the
board.




(6)

If the board changes the total amount of the contributions required to
fund the pension benefits provided under this Act under subsection (1)
(b), the board must,




(a)

based on a recommendation by an actuary,




(i)

determine the percentage amount the government must, under
subsection (1.2) (a), deduct from each payment of salary
made to an active member and pay to the pension fund, and




(ii)

determine the percentage amount the government must, under
subsection (1.2) (b), contribute to the pension fund, and




(b)

ensure the percentage amounts determined under paragraph (a) (i) and
(ii) are consistent with subsection (1.1).






Options for member who ceases to hold office before age 55




18.1


A member who ceases to hold office before reaching age 55 may elect to
receive,




(a)

on meeting the eligibility requirements of section 20 (1) or
22 (1), a pension calculated in accordance with this Act, or




(b)

if the member's age is less than 55, a commuted value of the pension
to which the member is entitled.






Spouse or beneficiary entitlement if member dies before age 55




18.2

(1)


If a member dies before reaching age 55, the member's spouse or
beneficiary is entitled to receive a lump-sum amount equal to the
total of the commuted value of the pension the member would have been
entitled to in respect of the member's pensionable service had the
member ceased to hold office immediately before death.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), the member's spouse, instead of receiving a
lump-sum amount under subsection (1), may elect to receive an
immediate pension that is




(a)

the actuarial equivalent of the amount calculated under subsection
(1), and




(b)

payable as if the member had chosen the joint life and last survivor
option under section 23 (4).






Deferred pension benefit




19

(1)


A member who




(a)

was an active member,




(b)

[Repealed 2019-36-3.]




(c)

ceases to hold office and terminates employment on or after
January 1, 2001, and




(d)

elects to receive a deferred pension


will receive a pension in accordance with this Act, on meeting the
eligibility requirements of section 20 (1) or 22 (1).




(2)

For greater certainty, an inactive member who




(a)

ceased to hold office before January 1, 2001,




(b)

was eligible to receive a deferred pension under the pension plan
rules, and




(c)

applies to receive the deferred pension


is entitled to receive that pension in accordance with the

Provincial Court Act

or this Act, as the applicable Act read on the date the inactive
member ceased to hold office, and the pension plan rules, as they read
on the date the inactive member terminated employment.






Eligibility for unreduced retirement benefit




20

(1)


An active member, or a member referred to in section 19 (1), who, on
or after January 1, 2001, ceases employment is, on
application, entitled to an unreduced pension calculated under this
Act if




(a)

the member meets the criteria for an unreduced pension as specified in
the pension plan rules, or




(b)

the member has reached age 55 and has completed at least 5 years of
contributory service.




(2)

The payment of pension benefits must not be delayed beyond latest
retirement age.






Calculation of unreduced retirement benefits




21

(1)


For the purpose of calculating the amount of the pension to which a
member referred to in section 20 (1) is entitled, the highest average
salary is, subject to subsection (2), the average of 1/12 of the
annual salary that the member received, or is deemed to have received,
in each fiscal year




(a)

during the 3 years of service in which the member received, or is
deemed to have received, the member's highest salary before the date
on which the member begins receiving a pension, or




(b)

during the member's actual period of pensionable service, if the
member's period of pensionable service is less than 3 years.




(2)

A partial year may be combined as required with a portion of the
salary of the lowest of the 3 years in order to calculate a highest
annual salary for the combined year if




(a)

a member does not cease employment at the end of a fiscal year, and




(b)

if the annualized salary for that partial year is equal to or higher
than the annual salaries received, or deemed to have been received, in
each of the 3 full years of highest annual salary as determined under
subsection (1),


and the combined year can be used in place of the lowest of the 3
years, but in no case can the total of the 2 portions exceed one year
of salary.




(3)

Subsections (1) and (2) apply to both judicial service and any other
pensionable service that preceded the judicial service.




(4)

Instead of the pension provided by the pension plan rules, a member
referred to in section 20 (1) is entitled to receive an unreduced
pension, payable in accordance with section 23, that is the sum of all
of the following:




(a)

3% of the member's highest average salary multiplied by the number of
years of judicial service accrued on and after
January 1, 2001;




(b)

2.35% of the lesser of




(i)

the member's highest average salary, and




(ii)

1/12 of the year's maximum pensionable earnings for the calendar year
immediately before the calendar year of the effective date of the
pension


multiplied by the number of years of judicial service accrued on and
after January 1, 1966 and before January 1, 2001;




(c)

3% of the excess of the member's highest average salary over the
amount determined under paragraph (b) (ii), multiplied by the number
of years of judicial service accrued on and after January 1, 1966 and
before January 1, 2001;




(d)

an amount, payable until the earlier of the member reaching age 65 and
the death of the member, that is 0.65% of the lesser of




(i)

the member's highest average salary, and




(ii)

1/12 of the year's maximum pensionable earnings for the calendar year
immediately before the calendar year of the effective date of the
pension


multiplied by the number of years of judicial service accrued on and
after January 1, 1966 and before January 1, 2001;




(e)

1.35% of the lesser of




(i)

the member's highest average salary, and




(ii)

1/12 of the year's maximum pensionable earnings for the calendar year
immediately before the calendar year of the effective date of the
pension


multiplied by the number of years of pensionable service accrued on
and after January 1, 1966 that are not judicial service;




(f)

2% of the excess of the member's highest average salary over the
amount determined under paragraph (e) (ii), multiplied by the number
of years of pensionable service accrued on and after January 1, 1966
that are not judicial service;




(g)

an amount, payable until the earlier of the member reaching age 65 and
the death of the member, that is 0.65% of the lesser of




(i)

the member's highest average salary, and




(ii)

1/12 of the year's maximum pensionable earnings for the calendar year
immediately before the calendar year of the effective date of the
pension


multiplied by the number of years of pensionable service accrued on
and after January 1, 1966 that are not judicial service;




(h)

2% of the member's highest average salary multiplied by the number of
years of pensionable service accrued before January 1, 1966 that
are not judicial service.




(5)

Despite subsection (4), in the case of an active member who, on or
after January 1, 2001 but before March 1, 2002, ceases
employment, the percentage in




(a)

subsection (4) (b) is deemed to be 2.3%,




(b)

subsection (4) (d) is deemed to be 0.7%,




(c)

subsection (4) (e) is deemed to be 1.3%, and




(d)

subsection (4) (g) is deemed to be 0.7%.




(6)

The pension determined under this section must not exceed 70% of the
member's highest average salary.






Eligibility for and calculation of reduced retirement benefits




22

(1)


An active member, or a member referred to in section 19 (1), who, on
or after January 1, 2001, ceases employment is, on
application, entitled to a reduced pension if the member meets the
criteria for a reduced pension as specified in the pension plan rules.




(2)

A member entitled to a reduced pension under subsection (1) is
entitled to receive a pension calculated in accordance with
section 21 but reduced by 5% as follows:




(a)

if the member has 2 or more years of contributory service, for each
year of age by which the member's age is less than age 60, and
the percentage must be prorated by fractions of years;




(b)

if the member has reached age 55 while an active member and has less
than 2 years of contributory service, for each year of age by
which the member's age is less than age 65, and the percentage
must be prorated by fractions of years.






Pension plan options at retirement




23

(1)


Instead of the pension options provided by the pension plan rules, a
pension




(a)

to which a member is entitled under section 20 (1) or 22 (1), and




(b)

that is calculated under section 21 or 22 (2)


must be paid in accordance with this section.




(2)

If the member does not have a spouse at the time the payment of the
pension begins, the pension to which the member is entitled is a
single life guaranteed, payable for the longer of




(a)

the life of the member, and




(b)

a term of 10 years.




(3)

Despite subsection (2), a member who is entitled to a pension payable
in accordance with subsection (2) may elect to be paid the member's
pension as a single life guaranteed, payable for the longer of




(a)

the life of the member, and




(b)

a term of 15 years,


but the amount of the pension must be adjusted to the actuarial
equivalent of the pension otherwise payable in accordance with
subsection (2).




(4)

Subject to subsections (5) to (7), if the member has a spouse at the
time the payment of the pension begins, the pension to which the
member is entitled is a joint life and last survivor, payable for




(a)

the life of the member, and




(b)

the life of the surviving spouse,


but the pension payable to the surviving spouse is reduced, on the
death of the member, to 60% of the pension to which the member was
entitled.




(5)

If the spouse waives, in writing by completion of a form specified by
the plan administrative agent, the entitlement that the pension be
paid on the joint life and last survivor basis as provided under
subsection (4), or there is filed with the plan administrative
agent a written agreement or court order made under Part 5
or 6 of the

Family Law Act

with the same effect, the pension to which the member is entitled is
payable in accordance with subsection (2).




(6)

If the spouse




(a)

was the spouse of the member at the time the member ceased to hold
office, and




(b)

is more than 10 years younger than the member,


the amount of the pension payable in accordance with subsection (4)
must be adjusted to the actuarial equivalent of the pension otherwise
payable if the spouse were 10 years younger than the member.




(7)

If the spouse was not the spouse of the member on the date the member
ceased to hold office, the amount of the pension payable on the joint
life and last survivor basis as provided under subsection (4) must be
adjusted to the actuarial equivalent of the pension otherwise payable
in accordance with subsection (2).




(8)

Despite subsection (4), a member may elect to have the member's
pension paid as a joint life and last survivor, payable for




(a)

the life of the member, and




(b)

the life of the surviving spouse, without reduction on the death of
the member,


but the amount of the pension must be adjusted to the actuarial
equivalent of the pension otherwise payable in accordance with
subsection (4).




(9)

If payment of a pension payable in accordance with subsection (4) or
(8) ceases, the last survivor's personal representative must be paid
any amount by which the refund value of the member contributions
exceeds the total of the pension payments made.






Recognition of service




24


If an active member applies, after January 1, 2001, to have judicial
service recognized in accordance with the provisions of the pension
plan rules respecting the purchase of service, reinstatement, arrears
and leaves of absence, the references to the employee and employer
contribution rates in the pension plan rules must be read as
references to the contribution rates specified in this Act when
calculating the cost of the purchase.






Senior judges




25

(1)


Despite section 18, a senior judge is not entitled to make
contributions or have contributions made on the judge's behalf to the
Public Service Pension Plan in respect of service as a senior judge.




(2)

A senior judge is, on the date that the judge's full time service
ceases, entitled to receive the judge's pension under the Public
Service Pension Plan in accordance with this Part and the pension plan
rules, and the cessation of full time service is deemed to be a
termination of the judge's employment but only for the purposes of
those pension plan rules.




(3)

Service as a senior judge does not, for any purpose, count as
contributory service or pensionable service.






Repealed




26


[Repealed 2008-42-29.]






Transitional — annual vacation




27


The disability benefit plan and annual vacation leave entitlement,
existing immediately before October 23, 2003, for judges are
continued.






Transitional — application of Public Service Pension Plan to judicial
justices




28


The Public Service Pension Plan continues to apply to a judicial
justice to whom the Public Service Pension Plan applied immediately
before October 23, 2003.






Spent





29-33



[Consequential amendments. Spent. 2003-59-29 to 33.]




