




Land Survey Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 247




Part 1 — Official Surveys





Boundaries and monuments placed by government are true ones




1


All boundary lines of townships, ranges, sections or legal
subdivisions of sections, blocks, gores, lots and commons surveyed and
run, and all mounds, posts or monuments marked, erected, placed or
planted at the angles of any townships, ranges, sections or other
legal subdivisions, blocks, gores, lots, commons or other parcels of
land, under the authority of the government, are the true and
unalterable boundaries of the townships, ranges, sections or other
legal subdivisions, blocks, gores, lots, commons or other parcels of
land respectively, whether they, on measurement, are or are not found
to contain the exact area or dimensions mentioned or expressed in any
patent, grant or other instrument, in respect of any township, range,
section or other legal subdivision, block, gore, lot, common or parcel
of land.






Parcels to comprise all width included within their boundaries




2


Every township, section or other legal subdivision, block, gore, lot,
common or parcel of land consists of the whole width included between
the mounds, posts, monuments or boundaries, respectively marked,
erected, placed or planted under the authority of the government, at
the several angles of them, and no more or less, despite any quantity
or measure expressed in the original grant or patent.






Division lines joining corresponding posts




3


The division lines between lots and sections, in ranges and blocks,
are straight lines joining the posts in front with the corresponding
posts on the opposite side of the range or block, if the official plan
or field notes show that the opposite posts were intended to be on the
same straight line.






Construction of grant of aliquot part




4


A patent, grant or instrument purporting to be for an aliquot part of
a section or other legal subdivision, block, gore, common, lot or
parcel of land must be construed to be a grant of the aliquot part of
the quantity it contains on the ground, whether the quantity is more
or less than that expressed in the patent, grant or instrument.






If original post or monument cannot be found




5

(1)


If a land surveyor is employed to run a dividing line or limits
between lots, sections or other legal subdivisions, and the original
corner, mound, post or monument from which the line or limit should
begin cannot be found, the land surveyor must obtain the best evidence
available respecting the line, limit, corner, mound, post or monument.




(2)

If evidence of the original corner, mount, post or monument cannot be
satisfactorily ascertained, the surveyor must measure the true
distance between the nearest undisputed corners, mounds, posts or
monuments and divide the distance into the number of lots, sections or
other legal subdivisions, as contained in the original survey, giving
to each a breadth proportionate to that intended in the original
survey, as shown on the original plan of subdivision registered in the
proper land title office or on the plan and field notes of record in
the office of the Surveyor General.




(3)

If a portion of the township, range or section line on which the
corner, mound, post or monument was or should have been planted in the
original survey is obliterated and lost, the surveyor must




(a)

run a line, similar to that shown on the original plan and field
notes, between the 2 nearest points or places where the line can be
clearly and satisfactorily ascertained, and




(b)

plant all intermediate posts or monuments as necessary in the line
ascertained, giving the exact breadth to any allowance for a road or
roads set out in the original survey.




(4)

The corner or dividing line or limits found is the true corner or
dividing line or limits of the lot, section or other legal
subdivision.




(5)

This section applies to all surveys, whether made by or at the
instance of the government, a municipality or a private person.




(6)

All surveys that have been made in accordance with this section must
be considered to have been made in a legal manner, so far as the mode
of procedure is concerned.






Subdivisions of land surveyed in sections one mile square




6

(1)


When a land surveyor is employed to lay out a given half section or
quarter section, if the land has been surveyed into sections of one
mile square, with quarter section posts placed on the section lines
every 40 chains, the land surveyor must do so by connecting the
opposite original quarter section corners, if they exist, by straight
lines.




(2)

If the opposite original quarter section corners do not exist, the
land surveyor must lay out the half section or quarter section by
connecting the several points in place of them found in accordance
with section 5.




(3)

In laying out other and minor legal subdivisions in any quarter
section, the land surveyor must give the legal subdivision its
proportionate share of the frontage and intermediate breadth of the
quarter section, and connect the points found by straight lines.




(4)

The lines or limits drawn as under subsections (1) to (3) on the
ground are the true lines or limits of the half section or quarter
section, or other legal subdivision, whether or not it corresponds
with the area expressed in the original grant or patent of the land.






Division lines if no corresponding posts placed




7


The dividing lines or limits between fractional sections, quarter
sections, lots or gores, if no corresponding posts have been placed on
the opposite sides, must be drawn from the original corners, or the
posts representing those corners, as defined on the ground, in
accordance with this Act, in the line intended as the front of a
fractional section, quarter section, lot or gore, at such an angle to
the line as was intended in the original survey, as shown on the
official plan and field notes of it.






Surveyors may administer oaths for certain purposes




8


For the purposes of ascertaining the original corner or limits of a
township, range, section or other legal subdivision, lot or parcel of
land, a British Columbia land surveyor may administer an oath to a
person the land surveyor may examine concerning a corner, mound, post,
monument or other boundary or original landmark, line, limit or angle
of a township, range, section or other legal subdivision, lot or
parcel of land that the land surveyor is employed to survey.






Compelling attendance of witnesses




9

(1)


If a British Columbia land surveyor is in doubt as to the true corner,
boundary or limit of a township, range, section, lot or parcel of land
that the land surveyor is employed to survey, and has reason to
believe that a person has important information about the corner,
boundary or limit, or of a writing, plan or document tending to
establish the true position of the corner, boundary or limit, then if
the person does not willingly appear before and submit to examination
by the land surveyor, or does not willingly produce to the land
surveyor the writing, plan or document, the land surveyor may apply to
a justice for a subpoena accompanying the application by an affidavit
or solemn declaration to be made before the justice of the facts on
which the application is founded.




(2)

The justice may issue a subpoena to the person to appear before the
land surveyor at a time and place to be mentioned in the subpoena,
and, if the case requires it, to bring along any writing, plan or
document mentioned or referred to in the subpoena.




(3)

The subpoena must be served on the person named in it by delivering a
copy of it to the person, or by leaving it for the person with some
adult person of the person's family at the person's residence,
exhibiting to the person or the adult person the original.




(4)

If the person commanded to appear by the subpoena, after being paid
the person's reasonable expenses, or having them tendered to the
person, refuses or neglects to appear before the land surveyor at the
place and time appointed in the subpoena, or to produce the writing,
plan or document, if any, mentioned or referred to in it, or to give
evidence and information the person possesses about the corner,
boundary or limit in question




(a)

a justice may issue a warrant for the arrest of the person, and




(b)

the person may be fined a sum not exceeding $100, or imprisoned not
more than 90 days, or both, in the discretion of the justice.






Evidence taken by surveyor reduced to writing and signed




10

(1)


Evidence taken by a British Columbia land surveyor must be




(a)

reduced to writing,




(b)

read over to the person giving it, and




(c)

signed by that person.




(2)

If the person who gives evidence cannot write, the person must
acknowledge it as correct before 2 witnesses, who must sign it along
with the British Columbia land surveyor.




(3)

The evidence, and any document or plan prepared and sworn to as
correct before a justice by any British Columbia land surveyor with
reference to any survey performed by the land surveyor, must be
annexed to the field notes of the survey, and be deposited in the
office of Surveyor General.




Part 2 — Integrated Survey Areas





Definitions




11


For the purposes of this Part:



"coordinate control monument"

means a monument established in compliance with the requirements of
the Surveyor General for the purposes of section 13 (2);



"original monument"

means a mound, post, mark or monument marked, erected, placed or
planted lawfully to mark the boundaries of a township, range, section
or other legal subdivision, block, gore, lot, common or other parcel
of land, under this or another enactment.






Orders and rules for integrated survey areas




12

(1)


The Surveyor General may make orders as follows:




(a)

constituting a portion of British Columbia an integrated survey area
and defining its boundaries;




(b)

redefining or readjusting the boundaries of an existing integrated
survey area;




(c)

extending, reducing, subdividing or annulling any existing integrated
survey area or merging all or part of it with another integrated
survey area or areas;




(d)

establishing the density of control monuments in or surrounding the
integrated survey area.




(2)

The Association of British Columbia Land Surveyors may make rules
under section 75 of the

Land Surveyors Act

for surveys under this Part.






Integrated survey area plan or map




13

(1)


If an integrated survey area has been constituted under section 12
(1), the Surveyor General must file a plan in the land title office or
Crown land registry or publish an electronic map of the integrated
survey area.




(2)

The plan or electronic map must show the location and designation of
the coordinate control monuments, the boundary of the integrated
survey area and any other information the Surveyor General considers
necessary.




(3)

The Surveyor General may file an amended plan or publish an amended
electronic map for a plan or electronic map filed under subsection
(1).




(4)

The plan or electronic map filed under subsection (1) or (3) is the
official plan of the location of the coordinate control monuments and
boundary of the integrated survey area.




(5)

If a plan is filed or an electronic map is published under subsection
(1), the Surveyor General must file a certificate in the land title
office or Crown land registry or publish an electronic listing setting
out the values for the coordinate control monuments located in the
integrated survey area.




(6)

The Surveyor General may file an amended certificate or publish an
amended electronic listing for a certificate or listing filed under
subsection (5).




(7)

The certificate or electronic listing filed under subsection (5) or
(6) is the official certificate or electronic listing of the
coordinate control monuments.






Effect of constituting integrated survey area




14

(1)


If an integrated survey area is constituted under section 12 (1),




(a)

all original monuments established after that within the integrated
survey area pertaining to the creation of new townships, ranges,
sections or other legal subdivisions, blocks, gores, lots, commons or
other parcels of land,




(b)

all those set under sections 67 to 69 of the

Land Title Act

, and




(c)

all those previously established and pertinent to the survey of a
parcel of land


must be tied by survey to the coordinate control monuments according
to the procedures in rules made under section 75 of the

Land Surveyors Act

.




(2)

If




(a)

a survey has been carried out in accordance with subsection (1),




(b)

the original monuments have in that way been tied to coordinate
control monuments, and




(c)

a plan of the survey has been deposited as required either in the
proper land title office or with the Surveyor General,


the coordinates that may be derived from the plan for those original
monuments are evidence of their positions and must be considered if it
becomes necessary to define or redefine the true position on the
ground of any original monuments or the boundaries governed by them.




Part 2.1 — General





Powers of Surveyor General




14.1


The Surveyor General may do any or all of the following:




(a)

approve types of control monuments for the purposes of this Act;




(b)

approve types of reference posts;




(c)

require electronic submission of survey plans, field notes and other
survey data;




(c.1)

specify standards for electronic submission of survey plans, field
notes and other survey data;




(d)

issue survey instructions to a practising land surveyor under the

Land Surveyors Act

for integrated control surveys;




(e)

require the correction and readjustment of coordinate control monument
values within integrated survey areas and require the filing of
supplementary certificates setting out new or amended coordinates and
updating the official plan of an integrated survey area;




(f)

make rules for the conduct of surveys and the preparation of
explanatory plans under section 70 of the

Land Title Act

;




(g)

if a parcel is being created under the

Land Act

, require an unsurveyed road to be posted at specified widths and
locations;




(h)

issue instructions for surveys under the

Mineral Tenure Act

to a practising land surveyor under the

Land Surveyors Act

.




Part 3 — Power to Make Regulations





Power to make regulations




15

(1)


For this Act, the Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations
referred to in section 41 of the

Interpretation Act

.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations to provide examples for the method of laying out
subdivisions of original sections.




