




Patients Property Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 349






Definitions




1


In this Act:


"committee"
means the following persons:




(a)

a person appointed as committee under section 6 (1);




(b)

the Public Guardian and Trustee under section 6 (3);




(c)

a statutory property guardian under Part 2.1 of the

Adult Guardianship Act

;


"court"
means Supreme Court;


"patient"
means




(a)

a person who, before paragraph (a.1) of this definition comes into
force, was described in a certificate signed by the director of a
Provincial mental health facility or psychiatric unit as defined in
the

Mental Health Act

as one who is, because of mental infirmity arising from disease, age
or otherwise, incapable of managing his or her affairs,




(a.1)

a person who has a statutory property guardian under Part 2.1 of the

Adult Guardianship Act

, or




(b)

a person who is declared under this Act by a judge to be




(i)

incapable of managing his or her affairs,




(ii)

incapable of managing himself or herself, or




(iii)

incapable of managing himself or herself or his or her affairs;



"Public Guardian and Trustee"

means the Public Guardian and Trustee holding office under the

Public Guardian and Trustee Act

;



"representation agreement"

means an agreement made under the

Representation Agreement Act

.






Application and service of notice




2

(1)


The Attorney General, a near relative of a person or other person may
apply to the court for an order declaring that a person is, because of




(a)

mental infirmity arising from disease, age or otherwise, or




(b)

disorder or disability of mind arising from the use of drugs,


incapable of managing his or her affairs or incapable of managing
himself or herself, or incapable of managing himself or herself or his
or her affairs.




(2)

Subject to subsection (3), a notice setting out the time and place of
the application must be served personally on the person who is the
subject of the application not less than 10 days before the date of
the application.




(3)

On an application under this section, the court may




(a)

direct that any person be served with notice of the application, or




(b)

dispense with service on any person of notice of the application.




(4)

Despite subsection (3), unless the court is satisfied that service on
the person who is the subject of the application would be injurious to
that person's health or would for any other reason be inadvisable in
the interests of that person, the court must not dispense with service
on that person.






Hearing of application




3

(1)


If, on




(a)

hearing an application, and




(b)

reading the affidavits of 2 medical practitioners setting out their
opinion that the person who is the subject of the application is,
because of




(i)

mental infirmity arising from disease, age or otherwise, or




(ii)

disorder or disability of mind arising from the use of drugs,


incapable of managing his or her affairs or incapable of managing
himself or herself, or incapable of managing himself or herself or his
or her affairs,


the court is satisfied that the person is, because of




(c)

mental infirmity arising from disease, age or otherwise, or




(d)

disorder or disability of mind arising from the use of drugs,


incapable of managing his or her affairs or incapable of managing
himself or herself, or incapable of managing himself or herself or his
or her affairs, it must, by order, declare the person




(e)

incapable of managing his or her affairs,




(f)

incapable of managing himself or herself, or




(g)

incapable of managing himself or herself or his or her affairs.




(2)

The court may, on hearing an application under this section and
reading the affidavits described in subsection (1), direct an issue to
be tried, and in that event the following provisions apply:




(a)

the question in issue is whether the person who is the subject of the
application is, because of




(i)

mental infirmity arising from disease, age or otherwise, or




(ii)

disorder or disability of mind arising from the use of drugs,


incapable of managing his or her affairs or incapable of managing
himself or herself, or incapable of managing himself or herself or his
or her affairs;




(b)

this Act applies to the issue and the trial of it;




(c)

the Supreme Court Civil Rules apply;




(d)

the court must




(i)

dismiss the application, or




(ii)

by order, declare that the person who is the subject of the
application




(A)

is incapable of managing his or her affairs,




(B)

is incapable of managing himself or herself, or




(C)

is incapable of managing himself or herself or his or her affairs.






Reassessment and review




3.1

(1)


The rights to reassessment and review set out in sections 34 and 35 of
the

Adult Guardianship Act

apply, and section 37 (3) and (4) of that Act applies, to a patient as
defined in paragraph (a) of the definition of "patient" under this Act
as if




(a)

the patient is an adult with a statutory property guardian under the

Adult Guardianship Act

,




(b)

the patient's committee is a statutory property guardian under the

Adult Guardianship Act

,




(c)

the director of a Provincial mental health facility or psychiatric
unit who signed the certificate referred to in paragraph (a) of the
definition of "patient" under this Act, or a person acting on his or
her behalf or who is his or her successor, is the health authority
designate referred to in the

Adult Guardianship Act

,




(d)

the certificate referred to in paragraph (a) of the definition of
"patient" under this Act is a certificate of incapability issued under
section 32 of the

Adult Guardianship Act

, and




(e)

for the purposes of section 35 (2) (b) of the

Adult Guardianship Act

, the body that appointed the director who signed the certificate
referred to in paragraph (a) of the definition of "patient" under this
Act is a party to a review.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1),




(a)

[Not in force.]




(b)

if statutory property guardianship ends under section 37 (3) of the

Adult Guardianship Act

, the person ceases to be a patient.




(3)

For greater certainty, the rights to reassessment and review set out
in sections 34 and 35, and section 37 (3) and (4), of the

Adult Guardianship Act

continue to apply to a patient as defined in paragraph (a.1) of the
definition of "patient".






Order declaring person no longer incapable




4

(0.1)


This section applies only to patients as defined in paragraph (b) of
the definition of "patient".




(1)

At any time after one year from the making of an order under
section 3 or sooner by leave of the court, the Attorney General,
the patient or other person may apply to the court for an order
declaring that a patient is no longer




(a)

incapable of managing his or her affairs,




(b)

incapable of managing himself or herself, or




(c)

incapable of managing himself or herself or his or her affairs.




(2)

Except by leave of the court, a patient must not be the subject of an
application under this subsection more often than once in any year.




(3)

If, on




(a)

hearing an application under this section, and




(b)

reading the affidavits of 2 medical practitioners setting out their
opinion that the patient is no longer




(i)

incapable of managing his or her affairs,




(ii)

incapable of managing himself or herself, or




(iii)

incapable of managing himself or herself or his or her affairs,


the court is satisfied that the patient is no longer




(c)

incapable of managing his or her affairs,




(d)

incapable of managing himself or herself, or




(e)

incapable of managing himself or herself or his or her affairs,

the court may, by order, so declare.





Examination




5

(1)


If




(a)

an application is made or an issue is tried under section 3,




(b)

an appeal is taken from an order under section 3, or




(c)

an application is made under section 4,


the court hearing the appeal or application or trying the issue may
order the person who is the subject of the application or the patient
to attend and submit at the time and place the order directs to
examination.




(2)

An examination under this section must be made by




(a)

one or more medical practitioners other than those whose affidavits
were before the court on the appeal, application or trial, or




(b)

a board of 3 or more medical practitioners designated by the College
of Physicians and Surgeons of British Columbia at the request of the
court.




(3)

If the person who is the subject of the application or the patient
requests an examination under this section, unless the court hearing
the appeal or application is satisfied that the person or patient is
not mentally competent to form and express the request, the court must
order the examination.






Appointment of committee




6

(1)


Subject to section 13, on application by the Attorney General or any
other person, the court may appoint any person to be the committee of
the patient.




(2)

On application by the Attorney General, the Public Guardian and
Trustee or any other person, the court may, subject to
section 13, rescind the appointment of a person appointed as
committee.




(3)

Subject to section 16, except during the time that a person appointed
under subsection (1), other than the Public Guardian and Trustee,
is the committee of a patient, the Public Guardian and Trustee is the
committee of the patient.




(4)

An application under subsection (1) and an application under
section 2 may be made as one application.






Service of notice of application to appoint committee




7


Notice in writing of an application to appoint a committee must be
served, not less than 10 days before the date of the application,
on




(a)

the Public Guardian and Trustee, and




(b)

the committee of the patient if one has been appointed.






Discharge of committee




8


If the court appoints a committee to succeed another committee, the
former committee, on being discharged under section 13,




(a)

ceases to be the committee of the patient, and




(b)

must transfer the estate of the patient to the appointed committee.






Nomination of committee by patient




9


On an application for the appointment of a committee, if there is
presented to the court a nomination in writing of a committee by the
patient,




(a)

made and signed by the patient at a time when the patient was of full
age and of sound and disposing mind, and




(b)

executed in accordance with the requirements for the making of a will
under the

Wills, Estates and Succession Act

,


the nominee must be appointed committee unless there is good and
sufficient reason for refusing the appointment.






Inventory, security and accounts




10

(1)


If a committee other than the Public Guardian and Trustee has been
appointed under this Act, the following rules apply:




(a)

[Repealed 2003-37-38.]




(b)

if property belonging to the patient is discovered after the first
passing of accounts under paragraph (d) and that property is valued at
$25 000 or more, the committee must, within 30 days of the discovery
of the property, deliver to the Public Guardian and Trustee a true
account of the property as it is discovered;




(c)

if ordered by the court, either on the person's appointment as
committee or subsequently on the application of the Public Guardian
and Trustee, the committee must give security for the proper
performance of the committee's duties in the amount the court directs
in the form of a bond that must be in the name of the Public Guardian
and Trustee, approved by the Registrar of the Supreme Court, and filed
with the Public Guardian and Trustee;




(d)

the committee must pass the committee's accounts before the Public
Guardian and Trustee at the times directed by the Public Guardian and
Trustee, including, if the Public and Guardian Trustee requires it, a
true inventory of the whole estate of the patient, stating the
estimated revenue of it and setting out the debts, credits and effects
of the patient to the extent they have come to the knowledge of the
committee;




(e)

if required by the Public Guardian and Trustee, the committee must
pass the accounts before the Supreme Court in the county in which the
committee was appointed committee.




(2)

A committee may at any time appeal the passing of accounts by the
Public Guardian and Trustee to the Supreme Court.






When a person ceases to be a patient




11

(1)


A person ceases to be a patient on any of the following events:




(a) to (d)

[Repealed 2014-9-33.]




(e)

the making of an order declaring that




(i)

the patient is no longer incapable of managing his or her affairs,




(ii)

the patient is no longer incapable of managing himself or herself, or




(iii)

the patient is no longer incapable of managing himself or herself or
his or her affairs.




(2)

[Repealed 2014-9-33.]




(3)

Despite anything in this Act to the contrary, the Public Guardian and
Trustee may carry out and complete a transaction entered into by the
Public Guardian and Trustee in relation to a patient's estate which is
not completed before the patient ceases to be a patient.






Application for discharge of committee




12


If a person ceases to be a patient, the person or the committee of the
person's estate other than the Public Guardian and Trustee may apply,
on 10 days' notice in writing to the Public Guardian and Trustee,
to the court for the discharge of the committee.






Passing of accounts




13

(1)


If




(a)

an application is made under section 12 for the discharge of a
committee other than the Public Guardian and Trustee, or




(b)

an application is made for the rescission of the appointment of a
committee other than the Public Guardian and Trustee,


the court may, and must if requested by the Public Guardian and
Trustee, order that the committee pass the accounts and may, in the
order, specify the time and the manner of passing the accounts, and
must adjourn the application until the carrying out of the order.




(2)

If a committee fails to pass the accounts as ordered, or if the
accounts are found to be incomplete or inaccurate, the committee may
be required to attend before the court to explain why the accounts
have not been passed or a proper proceeding in connection with them
taken, and the court may give the direction it considers proper.




(3)

After the order made under subsection (1) has been carried out, and
the court is satisfied that no further passing of accounts is
necessary, the court may order that the committee is discharged.




(4)

If the Public Guardian and Trustee or a committee is discharged under
this section, the Public Guardian and Trustee or the committee




(a)

has no further powers or duties with respect to the estate of the
person who has ceased to be a patient, and




(b)

is released, except in respect of undisclosed acts, neglects, defaults
or accounts or dishonest or unlawful conduct, from all actions, claims
and demands for or concerning the Public Guardian and Trustee's or the
committee's management or administration of the estate.






Compensation for acting as committee




14

(1)


A person may be allowed reasonable compensation from the estate of a
patient or from the estate of a person who has ceased to be a patient
for services rendered as committee of the patient or of the person who
has ceased to be a patient.




(2)

The compensation, if any, to be paid to a person other than the Public
Guardian and Trustee must be fixed on the passing of accounts.




(3)

If, in the opinion of a person who is entitled to compensation under
this section, the estate of a patient or the estate of a person who
has ceased to be a patient is so limited in value that the payment out
of it of compensation would create poverty or hardship for the patient
or person who has ceased to be a patient or the patient's dependants,
no compensation need be claimed or paid or no amount need be retained
out of the estate.




(4)

A committee of a patient or a person who has been the committee of a
person who has ceased to be a patient has a first lien or charge on
the estate of the patient or person who has ceased to be a patient for
all costs, expenses and advances made by him or her for or incidental
to the administration of the estate of the patient or the person who
has ceased to be a patient or for the benefit of the patient or person
who has ceased to be a patient, the patient's family or other
dependants.






Powers of committee




15

(1)


Subject to section 16,




(a)

the committee of a patient as defined in paragraph (a) or (a.1) of the
definition of "patient" in section 1 has all the rights, privileges
and powers with regard to the estate of the patient as the patient
would have if of full age and of sound and disposing mind, and




(b)

the committee of a patient




(i)

declared to be incapable of managing his or her affairs has all the
rights, privileges and powers with regard to the estate of the patient
as the patient would have if of full age and of sound and disposing
mind,




(ii)

declared to be incapable of managing himself or herself has the
custody of the person of the patient, and




(iii)

declared to be incapable of managing himself or herself or his or her
affairs has all the rights, privileges and powers with regard to the
estate of the patient as the patient would have if of full age and of
sound and disposing mind, and as well the custody of the person of the
patient.




(2)

For investing money, a committee is a trustee within the meaning of
the

Trustee Act

.






Special direction limiting powers of committee




16

(1)


On the appointment of a committee, the court may, by the same order,
attach conditions or restrictions on the committee's exercise of
certain rights, privileges or powers specified in the order, including
requiring the written consent of the Public Guardian and Trustee prior
to the committee's exercise of any right, privilege or power.




(2)

If, under subsection (1), the court has attached a condition that the
consent of the Public Guardian and Trustee is required prior to the
committee's exercise of any right, privilege or power, the registrar
of the court must send a copy of the court's order to the Public
Guardian and Trustee.






Rights, powers and privileges included




17


The rights, powers and privileges vested in the committee include all
the rights, powers and privileges that would be exercisable by the
patient as a trustee, as the guardian of a person, as the holder of a
power of appointment and as the personal representative of a person,
if the person were of full age and of sound and disposing mind.






Exercise of powers




18

(1)


A committee must exercise the committee's powers for the benefit of
the patient and the patient's family, having regard to the nature and
value of the property of the patient and the circumstances and needs
of the patient and the patient's family.




(2)

A committee must, to the extent reasonable, foster the independence of
the patient and encourage the patient's involvement in any decision
making that affects the patient.






Effect on power of attorney or representation agreement of person
becoming a patient by court order




19


On a person becoming a patient as defined in paragraph (b) of the
definition of "patient" in section 1,




(a)

every power of attorney given by the person is terminated, and




(b)

unless the court orders otherwise, every representation agreement made
by the person is terminated.






Effect on power of attorney or certain representation agreements of
person becoming a patient other than by court order




19.1

(1)


On a person becoming a patient as defined in paragraph (a) or (a.1) of
the definition of "patient" in section 1, the following are suspended:




(a)

every power of attorney that was given by the person;




(b)

every provision of a representation agreement made by the person in
respect of his or her property.




(2)

After receiving a copy of the suspended power of attorney or of a
representation agreement any provision of which has been suspended
under subsection (1) and any information that the Public Guardian and
Trustee may require, the Public Guardian and Trustee must determine
whether it is necessary or desirable for the Public Guardian and
Trustee to manage the patient's property under this Act.




(3)

If the Public Guardian and Trustee determines that it is necessary or
desirable for the Public Guardian and Trustee to manage the patient's
property, then on the making of the determination




(a)

the power of attorney that was suspended under subsection (1) is
terminated, or




(b)

the provisions of the representation agreement that were suspended
under subsection (1) are cancelled,

as the case may be.



(4)

If the Public Guardian and Trustee determines that it is not necessary
or desirable for the Public Guardian and Trustee to manage the
patient's property,




(a)

the Public Guardian and Trustee's authority as committee is terminated
on the making of that determination, and




(b)

the suspension of the power of attorney or of the provisions of the
representation agreement ends on the termination of the Public
Guardian and Trustee's authority as committee.






Repealed




19.2


[Repealed 2011-5-29.]






Repealed




20


[Repealed 2011-5-29.]






Effect of things done by committee




21


Everything done by a committee in the exercise of the committee's
powers under this Act has the same effect with respect to all other
persons as if done by the patient at a time when the patient was of
full age and of sound and disposing mind.






Actions for and against patient




22

(1)


A person other than the committee of the patient must not bring an
action on behalf of the patient.




(2)

An action against a patient must be brought against the committee as
litigation guardian.






Cost of maintenance, care and treatment




23

(1)


A patient is liable for the cost of the patient's maintenance, care
and treatment and, subject to section 18, the committee must pay
out of the estate of the patient the amounts necessary to defray all
just and reasonable charges for the maintenance, care and treatment of
the patient.




(2)

The Public Guardian and Trustee may permit a patient of whose estate
the Public Guardian and Trustee is committee to hold, manage or
control a part of the estate to defray normal living expenses or part
of them, and the Public Guardian and Trustee is not liable for loss or
damage to the estate of the patient resulting from the patient
holding, managing or controlling that part of the estate.






Death of patient




24

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), on the death of a patient and until a
representation grant, within the meaning of the

Wills, Estates and Succession Act

, is issued in respect of the patient's estate and notice in writing
of the representation grant is served on the committee, the committee
of the patient




(a)

continues to have the rights, powers, duties and privileges that the
committee would have had if the patient had not died, and




(b)

has the powers of a person who has been issued a representation grant.




(2)

Despite section 10 (1) (d), the Public Guardian and Trustee must not
require the committee to pass accounts before the Public Guardian and
Trustee after the death of the patient.




(3)

After the death of the patient, the committee must provide the
committee's accounts to




(a)

the executor or administrator of the patient's estate, or




(b)

if the committee and the executor or administrator of the patient's
estate are the same person, the beneficiaries of the patient's estate.




(4)

The executor, administrator or beneficiaries of the patient's estate
may provide to the committee written approval of, and consent to, the
accounts received under subsection (3).




(5)

If a committee fails to provide its accounts as required under
subsection (3), or if the accounts are incomplete or inaccurate, a
person entitled to the accounts may require the committee to attend
before the court to explain the committee's failure to provide the
accounts or to provide a satisfactory accounting, and the court may
give the direction it considers proper.




(6)

The court may, on being satisfied that no further accounting by the
committee is necessary, order at any time that the committee is
discharged.






Repealed




25-26


[Repealed 1999-25-23.]






Costs




27


The costs of all proceedings under this Act are in the discretion of
the court.






Orders by court




28


If there is insufficient provision in this Act, the court may at any
time, on the application of any person, make an order not in
contradiction to this Act or the regulations that it considers
necessary for or in the interests of the proper, honest and prudent
management and administration of the estate of a patient.






Repealed




29


[Repealed 1999-25-23.]






Appointment of new Public Guardian and Trustee




30

(1)


If a new Public Guardian and Trustee is appointed, the new Public
Guardian and Trustee is committee to every patient of whom the
predecessor was the committee.




(2)

[Repealed 1999-25-23.]






Persons outside British Columbia




31

(1)


If a person resident in another province who would be, if resident in
British Columbia, a patient as defined under this Act has estate in
British Columbia, the Lieutenant Governor in Council may appoint the
person who is charged with the duty of managing, handling,
administering or caring for the estate of that person in that province
to be the committee of the estate of the person in British Columbia.




(2)

The order in council making an appointment under subsection (1) is
conclusive evidence that all conditions precedent to the appointment
have been fulfilled.




(3)

Every person appointed a committee under subsection (1)




(a)

has as committee in respect to the estate of the person in British
Columbia the same rights, powers, privileges and immunities as are
conferred by this Act on the Public Guardian and Trustee as committee
of a patient in British Columbia, and




(b)

is subject to the same obligations and must perform the same duties


and this Act applies to the person in the same manner as to the Public
Guardian and Trustee acting as the committee of the estate of the
person.




(4)

All acts of a person appointed committee under this section are
binding in all courts and land title offices in the same manner and to
the same extent as the acts of the Public Guardian and Trustee acting
as the committee of the estate of a patient are binding.




