




Public Sector Employers Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 384




Part 1 — Introductory Provisions





Definitions




1


In this Act:



"contract of employment"

means a policy or contract, whether written or oral, express or
implied, with respect to or containing terms of employment between a
public sector employer and an employee or a class of employee;


"council"
means the Public Sector Employers' Council continued under
section 3;



"employers' association"

means an employers' association established under section 6;



"employment compensation standard"

means a standard established under section 14.2 or 14.3 (5);



"employment termination"

includes the expiry, cessation, change or renewal of a contract of
employment;



"employment termination standard"

means a standard established under section 14.4;



"public sector employee"

means a person employed by, or appointed to an office with, a public
sector employer, but does not include a justice or a person appointed
as a justice;



"public sector employer"

means




(a)

the government,




(b)

unless exempted by the regulations,




(i)

a corporation or an unincorporated board, commission, council, bureau,
authority or similar body that has on its board of management or board
of directors 50% or more members who are appointed by an Act, a
minister or the Lieutenant Governor in Council, or




(ii)

a subsidiary, as defined in section 1 (1) of the

Business Corporations Act

, of a corporation that is a public sector employer,




(c)

a board of school trustees as defined in the

School Act

or a francophone education authority as defined in that Act,




(d)

a university as defined in paragraph (a) of the definition of
"university"
in section 1 of the

University Act

,




(d.1)

Royal Roads University continued under the

Royal Roads University Act

,




(d.2)

[Repealed 2002-35-12.]




(d.3)

the Thompson Rivers University,




(e)

an institution as defined in the

College and Institute Act

and a special purpose, teaching university as defined in the

University Act

,




(f)

a hospital as defined in the

Hospital Act

or an employer that is designated in the regulations as a health care
employer, and




(g)

an employer that is designated in the regulations as a social services
employer;



"public service sector"

means the government and the employees of the government;


"sector"
means all the employers referred to in a paragraph of the definition
of "public sector employer" and the employees of those employers.






Purposes of Act




2


The purposes of this Act are




(a)

to ensure the coordination of human resource and labour relations
policies and practices among public sector employers, and




(b)

to improve communication and coordination between public sector
employers and representatives of public sector employees.




Part 2 — Public Sector Employers' Council





Public Sector Employers' Council




3

(1)


The Public Sector Employers' Council is continued.




(2)

The council consists of the minister and the following members
appointed by the Lieutenant Governor in Council:




(a)

not more than 7 persons each of whom is either a member of the
Executive Council or a deputy minister;




(b)

a person nominated by each of the employers' associations established
under Part 3;




(c)

the agency head appointed under the

Public Service Act

.




(3)

The minister is the chair of the council.




(4)

The chair may authorize another member of the Executive Council to act
as chair of the council during the chair's absence from a meeting of
the council.




(5)

A member of the Executive Council other than the minister may
authorize a deputy minister or other employee of the government to
represent the member of the Executive Council at a meeting of the
council.




(6)

If an employers' association fails to nominate a person for the
purpose of subsection (2) (b), the Lieutenant Governor in Council may
appoint a person to represent the employers' association on the
council.




(7)

A representative of the Union of British Columbia Municipalities may
attend meetings of the council as an observer.






Functions of the council




4

(1)


The functions of the council are




(a)

to set and coordinate strategic directions in human resource
management and labour relations,




(b)

to advise the government on human resource issues with respect to the
public sector, and




(c)

to provide a forum to enable public sector employers to plan solutions
to human resource issues,


consistent with cost efficient and effective delivery of services in
the public sector.




(2)

In addition, it is a function of the council to enable representatives
of public sector employees to consult with public sector employers on
policy issues that directly affect the employees.






Council access to employment information




4.1


A public sector employer must provide, without charge, to the council
copies of contracts of employment and other information that the
council requests for the purpose of monitoring compliance with
employment compensation standards and employment termination
standards.






Repealed




4.2


[Repealed 2002-64-2.]






Employees of the council




5

(1)


The council may employ a chief executive officer and other officers
and employees it considers necessary for the purposes of this Act, and
may determine their duties, conditions of employment and remuneration.




(2)

The council may retain consultants, experts and specialists and set
the remuneration of the persons retained and the terms and conditions
of the retainers.




(3) and (4)

[Repealed 1999-44-97.]




Part 3 — Public Sector Employers' Associations



Division 1 — Formation of Employers' Associations





Public Sector Employers' Associations




6

(1)


An employers' association must be established for each sector other
than the public service sector.




(2)

The purposes of an employers' association are to coordinate the
following with respect to a sector:




(a)

compensation for employees who are not subject to collective
agreements;




(b)

benefit administration;




(c)

human resource practices;




(d)

collective bargaining objectives.




(3)

In addition, it is a purpose of an employers' association




(a)

to foster consultation between the association and representatives of
employees in that sector, and




(b)

to assist the council in carrying out any objectives and strategic
directions established by the council for the employers' association.




(4)

Every public sector employer referred to in paragraphs (b) to (g) of
the definition of "public sector employer" must become and remain a
member of the employers' association for the sector that applies to
that employer.






Requirements




7

(1)


Every employers' association must do the following:




(a)

make provision for the representation of the government on the board
of directors of the association;




(b)

make provision to levy fees and assessments from its members for the
purposes referred to in section 6;




(c)

have a properly constituted board of directors and bylaws or rules
considered necessary by the minister for the administration and
management of the employers' association;




(c.1)

comply with any strategic direction that is set by the council in the
exercise of its functions under section 4 and that is of general
application or applies specifically to that association;




(c.2)

with respect to persons who are employed by the association and who
are not subject to a collective agreement, comply




(i)

as if it were a public sector employer, with any employment
compensation standard or employment termination standard that is of
general application, or




(ii)

with any employment compensation standard that the minister may
establish, under section 14.3, specifically for those persons or
that association;




(c.3)

provide, without charge, to the council copies of




(i)

contracts of employment relating to persons who are employed by the
association and who are not subject to a collective agreement, and




(ii)

other information that the council requests for the purpose of
monitoring compliance with paragraph (c.2);




(d)

comply with any further conditions prescribed by the Lieutenant
Governor in Council.




(2)

If authorized to do so by its bylaws or rules, an employers'
association may levy additional fees or assessments for the provision
of other services for its members.




(3)

An employers' association may bargain collectively on behalf of its
members if authorized to do so under section 43 of the

Labour Relations Code

, section 12 of this Act or any other enactment.




(4)

Despite any other Act, the constitution and bylaws or rules of the
employers' association are not effective until approved by the
minister.




(5)

Despite the

Societies Act

, an employers' association must not exercise any of the borrowing
powers conferred by the

Societies Act

without the prior approval of the minister.






Repealed




8


[Repealed 2002-48-62.]






Minister may require that bylaws and constitution be revised




8.1

(1)


Despite the

Societies Act

, the minister may request an employers' association to




(a)

amend or repeal an existing bylaw or rule or make a new bylaw or rule,
or




(b)

amend or repeal a provision of its constitution or make a new
provision of its constitution.




(2)

If an employers' association does not comply with the minister's
request under subsection (1) within 60 days after the date of the
request, the Lieutenant Governor in Council, in accordance with the
request, may




(a)

amend or repeal the existing bylaw or rule or make the new bylaw or
rule, or




(b)

amend or repeal the existing provision of the constitution or make the
new provision of the constitution.




(3)

A bylaw or rule may not be made, amended or repealed under subsection
(2) (a) unless notice of the proposed bylaw, rule, amendment or repeal
is given to the employers' association




(a)

at least 30 days before the bylaw, rule, amendment or repeal comes
into force, or




(b)

within a period shorter than that set out in paragraph (a) that the
minister considers appropriate in the circumstances.




(4)

A provision of the constitution of an employers' association may not
be made, amended or repealed under subsection (2) (b) unless notice of
the proposed provision, amendment or repeal is given to the employers'
association




(a)

at least 30 days before the provision, amendment or repeal comes into
force, or




(b)

within a period shorter than that set out in paragraph (a) that the
minister considers appropriate in the circumstances.






Application of the
Societies Act
to employers' associations




9

(1)


Sections 42 (2), 50 and 84 (2) of the

Societies Act

do not apply to an employers' association.




(2)

A member of an employers' association has the votes and may vote in
the manner set out in the association's bylaws.




(3)

The government may appoint to the board of directors of an employers'
association the number of directors provided for in the bylaws of the
association and the members of the association may, in accordance with
those bylaws, nominate, elect or appoint the remaining directors.




(4)

A director of an employers' association may be removed from office,
and another director may be elected or appointed to serve during the
balance of the term, in the manner provided for in the association's
bylaws.




(5)

A reference in the

Societies Act

to a special resolution is, when read in relation to an employers'
association established under this Act, to be read as a reference to




(a)

a special resolution as defined in the association's bylaws, or




(b)

if those bylaws do not define a special resolution, a special
resolution as defined in the

Societies Act

.




(6)

If there is a conflict between a provision of this Act and a provision
of the

Societies Act

, the provision of this Act prevails.






Appointment of public administrator




9.1

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may appoint a public administrator
to discharge the powers, duties and functions of a board of directors
of an employers' association if the Lieutenant Governor in Council
considers this necessary in the public interest.




(2)

On appointment of a public administrator, the members of the board of
directors cease to hold office unless otherwise ordered by the
Lieutenant Governor in Council.




(3)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may specify




(a)

the powers, duties and responsibilities of a public administrator
appointed under this section,




(b)

the terms and conditions for management of the property and affairs of
the employers' association by a public administrator, or




(c)

how the employers' association will operate after the termination of
the appointment of a public administrator.




Division 2 — Collective Bargaining





Definitions




10


In this Division:


"board"
means the Labour Relations Board under the Code;


"Code"
means the

Labour Relations Code

;



"organization"

means an organization formed under section 13.






Accreditation for collective bargaining




11

(1)


An employers' association or 2 or more members of an employers'
association may apply to the board for accreditation under section 43
of the Code.




(2)

In addition to its other purposes under this Act, an employers'
association that is accredited under the Code has the purpose of
acting as bargaining agent for the members of the employers'
association that are named in the accreditation.






Direction by minister




12

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), the minister may, on application of 2 or
more employers that are members of an employers' association or on the
minister's own motion and after the investigation considered necessary
or advisable, direct the board to consider whether in a particular
case an employers' association or any group of employers in an
employers' association would be an appropriate bargaining agent for
the employers in a sector or a part of a sector.




(2)

The minister must not make a direction under this section unless




(a)

an employers' association or any employers that are members of an
employers' association have at any time before or after the
commencement of this Act made an application for accreditation under
section 43 of the Code or any predecessor to that section, and




(b)

the minister considers that the direction is necessary to secure and
maintain industrial peace and promote conditions favourable to
settlement of disputes.




(3)

If a direction is made under subsection (1), the board must determine
whether the employers' association or any group of employers in the
employers' association is appropriate for collective bargaining for
the employers in the sector or part of the sector and must make any
other examination of records, inquiry or findings including the
holding of hearings it considers necessary to determine the matter.




(4)

The board must make its determination under subsection (1) within the
time period specified by the minister.




(5)

After a determination under subsection (3) and if the board considers
it necessary or advisable, the board may recommend to the minister
that the employers' association or any group of employers in the
employers' association should be the bargaining agent for all or any
of the employers in the sector.




(6)

When the minister receives a recommendation from the board, the
minister may direct that the employers' association or any group of
employers in the employers' association has exclusive authority to
bargain collectively for the employers who are named by the minister
and to bind those employers by collective agreement.




(7)

The board may modify or cancel an accreditation under section 43
of the Code to reflect a direction under subsection (6).




(8)

The minister may cancel or modify a direction under subsection (6).






Collective bargaining by part of employers' association




13

(1)


If the minister makes a direction under section 12 with respect
to a group of employers in an employers' association, the employers in
that group must form an organization for the purpose of allowing them
to participate in collective bargaining as if they were named in an
accreditation under section 43 of the Code.




(2)

In addition, it is a purpose of an organization to assist the
employers' association in carrying out any objectives and strategic
directions established by the employers' association for the
organization.




(3)

An organization must establish a constitution and bylaws or rules that
are satisfactory to the minister to enable the organization to
participate in collective bargaining.




(4)

If, in the opinion of the minister, an organization is unable or
unlikely to establish a constitution and bylaws or rules that are
satisfactory to the minister, the minister may recommend that the
rules for the organization be prescribed by the Lieutenant Governor in
Council.




(5)

When the constitution and bylaws or rules of an organization are
prescribed, they apply to the organization as if they were established
and approved under subsection (3).




(6)

An organization may levy fees or assessments from the employers in the
organization for the purpose of participating in collective
bargaining.






Application of
Labour Relations Code




14

(1)


Sections 12 and 13 apply despite sections 43 and 44 of the Code.




(2)

The provisions of the Code respecting multi-employer bargaining other
than sections 43 and 44 of the Code apply to an employers'
association or organization that receives its authority to bargain
collectively under section 13.




Part 3.1 — Exempt Employee Compensation



Division 1 — Definitions





Definitions




14.1


In this Part:



"compensation"

includes all remuneration provided to an employee by a public sector
employer for service with the employer, whether in the form of money
or other benefit;



"effective date"

means the date on which the
Public Sector Employers Amendment Act, 2002
receives first reading in the Legislative Assembly;


"employee"
means a public sector employee who is excluded from membership in a
bargaining unit.




Division 2 — Employment Compensation Standards





Vacation leave and sick leave standards




14.2

(1)


Except as provided under subsection (2), an employee is not entitled
to




(a)

bank, accumulate or carry forward to subsequent employment years any
unused vacation leave benefits attributable to any previous employment
year, or




(b)

be paid out for unused vacation leave for an employment year.




(2)

An employee who has unused vacation days for an employment year may,
to the extent that the contract of employment allows the carrying
forward of unused vacation days,




(a)

be paid out for the unused vacation days in the form of a lump sum
cash payment in the employment year immediately following the
employment year for which the unused vacation leave is attributable,




(b)

carry forward the unused vacation days and use them for vacation leave
in the employment year immediately following the employment year for
which the unused vacation leave is attributable, or




(c)

in the employment year immediately following the employment year for
which the unused vacation leave is attributable, in part, be paid out
under paragraph (a) and, in part, carry forward unused vacation days
and use them for vacation leave under paragraph (b).




(3)

In respect of sick leave benefits that allow an employee to bank,
accumulate or carry forward unused sick days for an employment year,
the employee is not entitled to be paid out for any unused sick day in
the form of




(a)

additional vacation leave, or




(b)

a cash payment or any other benefit, other than sick leave.




(4)

Subsections (1) to (3) do not apply in relation to an employee's
vacation leave benefits or sick leave benefits banked or accumulated
on or before December 31, 2002.




(5)

The provisions of this section




(a)

are deemed to be employment compensation standards for the purposes of
this Act, and




(b)

are deemed to be included in employees' contracts of employment that
are in force on January 1, 2003 or are commenced, changed or
renewed on or after that date.




(6)

Effective January 1, 2003, any provision of a contract of employment
referred to in subsection (5) (b) that conflicts or is inconsistent
with an employment compensation standard established by this section
is void to the extent of the conflict or inconsistency.






Other compensation standards




14.3

(1)


The minister may direct an employers' association or a public sector
employer to prepare




(a)

one or more compensation plans respecting compensation that will be
provided to




(i)

employees in the sector or within the employ of the public sector
employer, or




(ii)

persons employed by the employers' association and who are not subject
to a collective agreement, and




(b)

a report in respect of each compensation plan required under paragraph
(a) describing, in accordance with the minister's directions,




(i)

the methodology used in devising the plan, and




(ii)

how the employers' association or public sector employer intends to
implement and monitor the compensation plan.




(2)

The minister may do one or more of the following for the purposes of a
direction issued under subsection (1):




(a)

make the direction specific to one or more employees or persons
referred to in subsection (1) (a) and, for this purpose, may specify a
position or an occupation or categories of positions or occupations;




(b)

prescribe information that must be included in a compensation plan;




(c)

without limiting paragraph (b), require that the employers'
association or public sector employer include in the plan




(i)

a detailed description of the nature, amount and range of compensation
that will be provided to the employees or persons in respect of whom
the plan applies, and




(ii)

any other information the minister considers appropriate;




(d)

prescribe information that must be included in a report referred to in
subsection (1) (b);




(e)

without limiting paragraph (d), require that the employers'
association or public sector employer include in the report




(i)

comparisons of actual compensation provided to persons employed in the
same or a similar sector, position or occupation, whether those
persons are employed in the public sector or the private sector, as
considered appropriate by the minister, and




(ii)

any other information the minister considers appropriate;




(f)

specify the form and manner in which a compensation plan and the
report in respect of it are to be prepared and submitted for review by
the minister.




(3)

The minister may issue different directions under subsection (1) for
different employers' associations, public sector employers, public
sector employees or persons referred to in paragraph (a) of that
subsection.




(4)

If directed to prepare a compensation plan and report under this
section, the employers' association or public sector employer in
respect of whom the direction is issued must, in accordance with the
minister's direction,




(a)

prepare the plan and report, and




(b)

submit them for review by the minister.




(5)

If, following a review of a compensation plan, the plan is approved by
the minister, that compensation plan is adopted as an employment
compensation standard on that approval.




(6)

On the minister issuing a direction to an employers' association or a
public sector employer under subsection (1), no increase in
compensation may be provided to employees or persons in positions or
occupations in respect of which the direction is issued unless




(a)

a compensation plan in respect of those employees or persons is
approved by the minister and the increase in compensation is
consistent with the applicable employment compensation standard
resulting from the operation of subsection (5),




(b)

the increase in compensation was agreed to before the date on which
the minister issues the direction and the increase in compensation is
consistent with the applicable employment compensation standard, if
any, that was in force and effect before the issuance of the
direction,




(c)

the increase is the result of a change in an employee's or person's
position within a range of positions that was established for the
sector, employee or person before the issuance of the direction, or




(d)

the increase is within a range of compensation that was established
for the employee's or person's position before the issuance of the
direction.




(7)

This section does not apply in respect of compensation that will be
provided to a directeur général or superintendent who is appointed
under the

School Act

by a francophone education authority or board of education, as the
case may be.




Division 3 — Employment Termination Standards





Employment termination standards




14.4

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may, by regulation, establish
employment termination standards for an employee.




(2)

In making regulations under subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in
Council may do one or more of the following:




(a)

delegate a matter to the council, the Treasury Board, an employers'
association, a public sector employer or the minister;




(b)

confer a discretion on the council, the Treasury Board, an employers'
association, a public sector employer or the minister;




(c)

establish different standards for different public sector employers or
public sector employees;




(d)

specify positions or occupations or categories of positions or
occupations for the purpose of paragraph (c).




(3)

If the Lieutenant Governor in Council establishes an employment
termination standard by regulation under subsection (1), effective on
the date on which the regulation comes into force,




(a)

the standard is deemed to be included in all applicable contracts of
employment that are commenced, changed or renewed on or after that
date, and




(b)

any provision of an applicable contract of employment referred to in
paragraph (a) that conflicts or is inconsistent with the standard is
void to the extent of the conflict or inconsistency.




(4)

The Employment Termination Standards regulation (B.C. Reg. 379/97)
made under this Act before the commencement of this section continues,
as amended by this section, and is deemed to have been made under this
section.




(5)

On the effective date,




(a)

the Employment Termination Standards regulation (B.C. Reg. 379/97) is
deemed to have been amended as set out in the Schedule to the
Public Sector Employers Amendment Act, 2002
,




(b)

the employment termination standards set out in that regulation are
deemed to be included in all applicable contracts of employment that
are in force on the effective date or are commenced, changed or
renewed on or after that date, and




(c)

any provision of an applicable contract of employment referred to in
paragraph (b) that conflicts or is inconsistent with any of those
standards is void to the extent of the conflict or inconsistency.




(6)

Subsection (5) is retroactive to the extent necessary to give it force
and effect on and after the effective date.




(7)

The amendment to section 5 (2) of the Employment Termination Standards
regulation (B.C. Reg. 379/97) made under this section does not apply
in relation to an employee with whom a contract of employment was
entered into before the effective date and which contract of
employment is for a definite term unless that contract of employment
is changed or renewed on or after the effective date.




Division 4 — Compensation Information





Definition and application




14.5

(1)


In this Division,
"senior employee"
means an employee who




(a)

earns a base salary above a prescribed amount, and




(b)

is not employed in a prescribed position or occupation or category of
positions or occupations that may be excluded from the application of
this Division.




(2)

For the purpose of the definition of "senior employee", the Lieutenant
Governor in Council may make regulations




(a)

prescribing an amount for the purpose of paragraph (a) of that
definition, and




(b)

prescribing positions or occupations or categories of positions or
occupations for the purpose of paragraph (b) of that definition.




(3)

This Division applies to a senior employee's contract of employment
that is in force on the effective date or entered into on or after
that date.






Compensation information to be specified and provided




14.6

(1)


For each senior employee, a public sector employer must provide for
the chief executive officer of the council a report specifying all the
terms and conditions of employment relating to the senior employee's
compensation.




(2)

If any change is made to the terms and conditions of employment
relating to a senior employee's compensation, the public sector
employer must provide for the chief executive officer of the council a
revised report specifying each change made to those terms and
conditions.




(3)

The terms and conditions referred to in subsection (1) and any changes
to them must be specified and provided in a form and in a manner
acceptable to the chief executive officer of the council.






Filing of contracts of employment and compensation information




14.7

(1)


A public sector employer must file with the chief executive officer of
the council a report required to be provided in relation to a senior
employee under section 14.6 together with a copy of the written
contract of employment, if any, for the senior employee




(a)

within 15 days after the contract of employment is entered into, and




(b)

within 15 days of any change to a term or condition of the senior
employee's contract of employment that relates to compensation.




(2)

In the case of a contract of employment entered into before this
section comes into force, the public sector employer must file the
report and copy described in subsection (1) with the chief executive
officer of the council before March 31, 2003.




(3)

A public sector employer must provide the chief executive officer of
the council with any information the chief executive officer of the
council may require to be satisfied that a copy of a written contract
of employment is a true copy or that the report described in
subsection (1) or (2) includes complete and accurate information
regarding the terms and conditions of employment.




(4)

If a public sector employer fails to comply with subsection (1), (2)
or (3), the minister may declare all or part of the contract of
employment to be void and on that declaration the contract of
employment or part of it, as the case may be, is deemed to be void.






Contracts of employment are public documents




14.8

(1)


A provision of a contract of employment that all or part of the
contract is to remain confidential is void.




(2)

Each senior employee's contract of employment is deemed to include a
provision that the contract is a public document and the public sector
employer must make the contract, together with any report filed with
the chief executive officer of the council in relation to it,
available for public inspection in accordance with this section.




(3)

A public sector employer must, by both of the following means, make
available to the public all information in contracts of employment and
reports referred to in subsection (2) that would otherwise be
available to an applicant making a request under the

Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act

:




(a)

posting the information on a publicly accessible website maintained by
or on behalf of the public sector employer;




(b)

having the information available for public inspection in the office
of the public sector employer during regular office hours.




(4)

Information must be posted and made available under subsection (3) in
the form and manner and at such times required by the chief executive
officer of the council.




(5)

The chief executive officer of the council may do any of the
following:




(a)

prepare a report respecting senior employee compensation information
reported under subsection (3) (a) and (b);




(b)

make the report available to the public by one or both of the
following means:




(i)

posting the report on a publicly accessible website maintained by or
on behalf of the chief executive officer;




(ii)

having the information available for public inspection in the office
of the chief executive officer during regular office hours.




Division 5 — Tribunal Exclusions





Members of tribunals




14.9

(1)


Division 3 of this Part does not apply to




(a)

the chief coroner and deputy chief coroner under the

Coroners Act

,




(b)

the fire commissioner under the

Fire Services Act

,




(c)

[Repealed 2006-35-115.]




(d)

a director of the Workers' Compensation Board under the

Workers Compensation Act

, or




(e)

a person who is a member of a tribunal designated in the Schedule,
when the person is acting in the person's capacity as a member of the
tribunal.




(2)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may, by regulation, add a tribunal
to the Schedule.




(3)

The appointment of a person referred to in subsection (1) may be
terminated without notice before the end of the term of their
appointment on payment of the lesser of




(a)

12 months' compensation, or




(b)

the compensation in an amount equal to the remuneration otherwise
owing until the end of the term.




(4)

An amount paid under subsection (3) must be in the form of periodic
payments unless the employer, in its sole discretion, considers a lump
sum payment to be more appropriate.




(5)

For greater certainty, the Lieutenant Governor in Council may, for the
designated tribunals referred to in the Schedule, prescribe further
employment termination standards that are not inconsistent with this
section.




Part 4 — General





Power to make regulations




15

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
section 41 of the

Interpretation Act

.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations as follows:




(a)

designating or exempting employers for the purposes of the definition
of "public sector employer";




(b)

respecting the information that must be provided to the council to
enable it to carry on its purposes under section 4;




(c)

prescribing conditions for the purposes of section 7 (1);




(d)

prescribing the constitution and bylaws or rules of an employers'
association or an organization formed under section 13.






Compliance with Part 3.1




15.1

(1)


If, after the effective date of Part 3.1, a person accepts money or
receives a benefit from a public sector employer that exceeds the
amount or benefit permitted by that Part or by a regulation under that
Part, the excess money or cost to the employer of the benefit is a
debt that is payable to the government by the person who receives the
amount or benefit.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply if the public sector employer referred
to in that subsection recovers the excess money or cost within




(a)

the year after the date on which the person accepts the money or
receives the benefit that exceeds the amount or benefit permitted by
Part 3.1 or by a regulation under that Part, or




(b)

a longer period specified by the minister.






Transitional — regulations




16

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations considered
necessary or advisable for the purpose of more effectively bringing
into operation this Act and to obviate any transitional difficulties
encountered in so doing.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the regulations may for a period the
Lieutenant Governor in Council specifies, suspend the operation of a
provision of an enactment if that provision would impede the effective
operation of this Act.




(3)

Unless earlier repealed, a regulation under subsection (1) or (2) is
repealed one year after it is enacted.




Schedule


Designated Tribunals


(section 14.9)

Agricultural Land Commission

Appeal Board (
Motion Picture Act
)


Appeal Division (
Workers Compensation Act
)

BC Benefits Appeal Board
BC Financial Services Authority

British Columbia Farm Industry Review Board (
Natural Products Marketing (BC) Act
)

British Columbia Securities Commission
British Columbia Utilities Commission

Building Code Appeal Board (
Building Act
)

Civil Resolution Tribunal
Community Care and Assisted Living Appeal Board
Community Care Facility Appeal Board

Employment and Assistance Appeal Tribunal (
Employment and Assistance Act
)

Employment Standards Tribunal
Environmental Appeal Board
Farm Practices Board
Forest Appeals Commission
Forest Practices Board

Health Care Practitioner's Special Committee for Audit (
Medicare Protection Act
)


Hospital Appeal Board (
Hospital Act
)

Human Rights Tribunal
Labour Relations Board
Land Reserve Commission

Medical Review Panel (
Workers Compensation Act
)


Medical Services Commission (
Medicare Protection Act
)

Property Assessment Appeal Board
Property Assessment Review Panels
Provincial Agricultural Land Commission

Review Board (
Criminal Code
)


Review Panel (
Mental Health Act
)

Safety Standards Appeal Board
Skilled Trades BC Appeal Board

Surface Rights Board (
Petroleum and Natural Gas Act
)

Workers' Compensation Appeal Tribunal
Workers' Compensation Review Board


