




Vancouver Island Natural Gas Pipeline Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 474






Definitions




1


In this Act:



"local distribution utility"

means a public utility, as defined by section 1 of the

Utilities Commission Act

, that operates a system, connected directly to the pipeline, for the
transmission, sale or delivery of natural gas;



"natural gas"

means all fluid hydrocarbons, both before and after processing, which
are not defined as petroleum, and includes hydrogen sulphide contained
in them;


"petroleum"
means crude petroleum and all other hydrocarbons, regardless of
gravity, that are or can be recovered in liquid form from underground
through a well by ordinary production methods;


"pipeline"
means the Vancouver Island Natural Gas Pipeline as defined by
section 2;


"proponent"
means the Pacific Coast Energy Corporation.






Pipeline




2


The natural gas pipeline facilities on the mainland of British
Columbia, in the Strait of Georgia and on Vancouver Island, including
connected works and undertakings owned by the proponent, all as
described in the proponent's application for an energy project
certificate under the

Utilities Commission Act

, are to be known as the Vancouver Island Natural Gas Pipeline.






Agreements with Canada, etc.




3


The minister may enter into one or more agreements with




(a)

Canada,




(b)

the proponent,




(c)

one or more local distribution utilities,




(d)

Westcoast Energy Inc.,




(e)

Alberta Energy Company Ltd.,




(f)

BC Gas Inc.,




(g)

Centra Gas British Columbia Inc.,




(h)

Westcoast Power Holdings Inc.,




(i)

CGBC Holdings Inc., or




(j)

any other person approved by the Lieutenant Governor in Council


with respect to the funding, construction and operation of the
pipeline, the granting of service areas and any other matter relating
to this Act.






Provincial financial assistance




4

(1)


The minister may, to facilitate construction of the pipeline, make
grants or loans to the proponent not exceeding $25 million in the
aggregate on terms and conditions that may be specified in an
agreement under section 3 (a).




(2)

Amounts, not exceeding $25 million in the aggregate, may be paid out
of the consolidated revenue fund for the purposes of grants or loans
under this section.






Repealed




5


[Repealed 2014-31-13.]






Conversions assistance program




6

(1)


Subject to the regulations, the minister must establish a program to
grant financial assistance to persons to assist in the conversion of
oil, propane or other fuel fired appliances to the use of natural gas
as a fuel.




(2)

A cumulative total, not exceeding $55 million, may be paid out of
the consolidated revenue fund for the purposes of the program
established under this section.






Application of utility statutes




7

(1)


The

Utilities Commission Act

and the

Gas Utility Act

apply to the proponent and a local distribution utility except to the
extent otherwise provided in this section or in a regulation under
this section.




(2)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations as follows:




(a)

ordering that prescribed provisions of the

Utilities Commission Act

or of the

Gas Utility Act

do not apply in respect of




(i)

the proponent,




(ii)

the local distribution utilities, or




(iii)

a particular local distribution utility;




(b)

prescribing limitations and conditions for the purposes of a
regulation under paragraph (a).




(3)

Despite Parts 3 and 6 of the

Utilities Commission Act

, the Lieutenant Governor in Council may issue directions to the
British Columbia Utilities Commission, specifying one or more of the
following:




(a)

the factors, criteria and guidelines that the commission must or must
not use in regulating and fixing rates for the proponent or a local
distribution utility;




(b)

classes of customers of the proponent or of a local distribution
utility, according to volume of natural gas taken, location, date of
application for natural gas service, type of premises or on any other
basis the Lieutenant Governor in Council considers appropriate;




(c)

the rates that may be permitted to be charged under the

Utilities Commission Act

by the proponent to its customers or by a local distribution utility
to its customers, and, in specifying rates under this paragraph, the
Lieutenant Governor in Council may differentiate among the classes of
customers specified under paragraph (b);




(d)

limitations or principles that must be applied by the commission in
fixing or varying the rates charged by the proponent to its customers
or by a local distribution utility to its customers, and, for any
specification of limitations or principles under this paragraph,
differentiating, or requiring or empowering the commission to
differentiate, among the classes of customers specified under
paragraph (b);




(e)

for all or part of any year since the commencement of operation of the
pipeline, one or more of the following:




(i)

the cost of service of the proponent or a local distribution utility;




(ii)

the manner of determining the proponent's or a local distribution
utility's cost of service;




(iii)

the components, factors and considerations that must or must not be
taken into account in making a determination under subparagraph (ii);




(f)

an order that has been made by the British Columbia Utilities
Commission and is or may be relevant to the proponent, one or more
local distribution utilities, or both, and doing either or both of the
following:




(i)

requiring the commission to apply or to refrain from applying that
order or a specified portion or aspect of that order to the proponent,
one or more local distribution utilities, or both;




(ii)

directing the commission as to the extent or manner in which it must
or must not apply that order or a specified portion or aspect of that
order to the proponent, one or more local distribution utilities, or
both.




(4)

Despite the

Utilities Commission Act

and the

Gas Utility Act

,




(a)

the British Columbia Utilities Commission must comply with a direction
issued under subsection (3) of this section, and




(b)

if a direction issued under subsection (3) of this section is
inconsistent or in conflict with the

Utilities Commission Act

or the

Gas Utility Act

, the direction prevails.




(5)

[Repealed 2014-31-14.]






Power to make regulations




8


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations respecting the
implementation of the conversion assistance program under
section 6, including regulations respecting eligibility for
assistance under that program.




