







B.C. Reg. 169/2009

O.C. 303/2009


Deposited July 7, 2009

effective July 1, 2010






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.

See “Amendments Not in Force” and the


Cumulative B.C. Regulations Bulletin 2024

for

amendments effective after March 5, 2024.





Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Court Rules Act


Supreme Court Family Rules


[Last amended January 15, 2024 by B.C. Reg. 277/2023]




Part 1 — Interpretation



Rule 1-1 — Interpretation






Definitions



(1)

In these Supreme Court Family Rules, unless the context otherwise
requires:



"accessible address"

means an address that describes a unique and identifiable location in
British Columbia that is accessible to the public during normal
business hours for the delivery of documents;



"application"

means an application made before trial to obtain a court order or an
application, whenever made, to change a final order;



"arbitration award"

means an award, within the meaning of the

Arbitration Act

, made in respect of a family law dispute;



"business day"

means a day on which the court registries are open for business;



"Chief Justice"

means the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of British Columbia;


"claimant"
means a person who has filed a notice of family claim under Rule 4-1;


"court"
means the Supreme Court of British Columbia and, if an associate judge
has jurisdiction, includes an associate judge of the Supreme Court;



"
Divorce Act
"

means the

Divorce Act

(Canada);


"document"
has an extended meaning and includes a photograph, film, recording of
sound, any record of a permanent or semi-permanent character and any
information recorded or stored by means of any device;



"family justice counsellor"

means a person appointed as a family court counsellor under section 3
of the

Family Relations Act

or a person appointed as a family justice counsellor under section 10
of the

Family Law Act

;



"family law case"

means a proceeding in which one or more of the following orders is
sought:




(a)

an order under the

Divorce Act

;




(b)

an order under the

Family Law Act

;




(b.1)

a FHRMIRA order;




(c)

an order for annulment of marriage;




(d)

an order,




(i)

based on unjust enrichment or other trust claims, for an interest in
property, or




(ii)

based on unjust enrichment, for compensation


if the claim for the interest or compensation arises out of a
marriage-like relationship;




(e)

an order for adoption,

and includes



(f)

a proceeding that, under Rule 3-1 (4.1), was started by the filing of
a requisition and agreement under Rule 2-1 (1),




(g)

a proceeding that, under Rule 3-1 (4.4), was started by the filing of
a requisition under Rule 20-6 (3), and




(h)

a proceeding that, under Rule 3-1 (4.5), was started by the filing of
a requisition and arbitration award under Rule 2-1.2 (2);



[Orders available under a family law case include orders concerning
guardianship, parenting arrangements or contact with a child, orders
for support for a child or spouse, protection orders, orders dealing
with property and divorce orders.]




"FHRMIRA order"

means an order made under the


Family Homes on Reserves and Matrimonial Interests or Rights Act


(Canada) or under a First Nation's law made under that Act;


"file"
means file in the registry;



"final order"

means an order finally resolving a claim in a family law case even
though the order may be subject to change;



"FMEP Director"

means the Director of Maintenance Enforcement under the

Family Maintenance Enforcement Act

;



"former Supreme Court Rules"

means the Supreme Court Rules, B.C. Reg. 221/90;



"joint family law case"

means a family law case referred to in Rule 2-2 (1);



"notice of application"

means the document described in Rule 10-6 (3);


"party"
means




(a)

a claimant,




(b)

a respondent,




(c)

a respondent by way of counterclaim,




(d)

a petitioner,




(e)

a petition respondent, and




(f)

if a support order is filed with him or her, the FMEP Director in
relation to the following:




(i)

any matter arising under section 9, 14 (1) or (2), 16 (3) or (4), 18
(2), 19, 20, 21, 22 (1), 23 (1), 26 (10), 29, 30, 30.1, 31, 39 (1) or
46 (1) of the

Family Maintenance Enforcement Act

;




(ii)

an application to change, suspend or terminate a support order that is
in arrears, other than a support order under the

Divorce Act

;




(iii)

an application to change, suspend or terminate a support order made
under the

Divorce Act

if the order has been assigned to a minister designated by the
Lieutenant Governor in Council under the

Divorce Act

;



"petition proceeding"

means a family law case started by a petition;



"petition respondent"

means a person who has filed a response to petition under Rule 17-1
(4);


"petitioner"
means a person who has filed a petition under Rule 17-1;


"pleading"
means a notice of family claim, a response to family claim, a
counterclaim and a response to counterclaim;



"regional manager"

in relation to a registry, means the regional manager of the Family
Justice Services Division (Justice Services Branch), Ministry of
Attorney General, who is responsible for the region in which the
registry is located;


"registrar"
includes a district registrar and a deputy district registrar;


"registry"
, in relation to a family law case, means the office of the court in
which the family law case is being conducted;


"relief"
includes remedy;


"respondent"
means a person who has filed a response to family claim under Rule
4-3;



"respondent by way of counterclaim"

means a person who has filed a response to counterclaim under Rule 4-4
(5);


"support"
includes maintenance;



"undefended family law case"

means a family law case in which one of the following is true:




(a)

the family law case is a joint family law case and no party has filed
a notice of withdrawal;




(b)

no response to family claim has been filed;




(c)

a response to family claim was filed but has been withdrawn or struck
out;




(d)

a response to family claim and a counterclaim have been filed but the
notice of family claim and any response to counterclaim have been




(i)

withdrawn, or




(ii)

struck out, discontinued or dismissed;




(e)

all claims other than a claim for divorce, if any, have been settled,
the parties have filed a statement to that effect signed by the
parties or their lawyers and the claim for divorce, if any, is not
contested.


[am. B.C. Regs. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 1; 133/2012, s. 1; 27/2013, Sch.
2, s. 14; 90/2014, Sch. 2, s. 1; 121/2014, s. 1; 249/2014, s. 1;
99/2018, Sch. 2, s. 17; 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 1; 277/2023, Sch. 3, s.
1.]








Interpretation Act
and
Supreme Court Act




(2)

Unless a contrary intention appears, the

Interpretation Act

and the interpretation section of the

Supreme Court Act

apply to these Supreme Court Family Rules.







Titles and headings



(3)

The titles and headings of these Supreme Court Family Rules are for
convenience only and are not intended as a guide to interpretation.







Reference aids



(4)

Italicized words in square brackets are not part of these Supreme
Court Family Rules, are included editorially for convenience of
reference only and are not to be used in interpreting the rules or any
provision to which the words refer.




Rule 1-2 — Citation and Application






Citation



(1)

These Supreme Court Family Rules may be cited as the "Supreme Court
Family Rules" and are included within any citation to the "Rules of
Court" or the "Supreme Court Rules".







Rules apply to all family law cases



(2)

These Supreme Court Family Rules apply to all family law cases.







Waiver of rule by agreement



(3)

On application, and if all parties to a family law case agree, the
court may order that any provision of these Supreme Court Family Rules
does not apply to the family law case.




Rule 1-3 — Object of Rules






Object



(1)

The object of these Supreme Court Family Rules is to




(a)

help parties resolve the legal issues in a family law case fairly and
in a way that will




(i)

take into account the impact that the conduct of the family law case
may have on a child, and




(ii)

minimize conflict and promote cooperation between the parties, and




(b)

secure the just, speedy and inexpensive determination of every family
law case on its merits.







Proportionality



(2)

Securing the just, speedy and inexpensive determination of a family
law case on its merits includes, so far as is practicable, conducting
the family law case in ways that are proportionate to




(a)

the interests of any child affected,




(b)

the importance of the issues in dispute, and




(c)

the complexity of the family law case.




Part 2 — Resolving Cases by Agreement



Rule 2-1 — Agreements






Written agreements



(1)

A copy of a written agreement referred to in section 15, 44 (3), 58
(3), 148 (2) or 163 (3) of the

Family Law Act

may be filed.


[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 2, as am. by B.C. Reg. 67/2013, s. 1 (a).]








Filing agreements under the
Family Law Act




(2)

To file an agreement under subrule (1), a copy of the agreement must
be attached to a requisition in Form F17.1 and the requisition must be
filed.

[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 2.]






Enforcing agreements



(3)

Without limiting any other power the court may have to enforce an
agreement filed under this rule, the court may make an order for that
purpose on an application and, for that purpose, Part 10 of these
Supreme Court Family Rules applies.

[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 2.]



Rule 2-1.1 — Determinations of Parenting Coordinators






Determination may be filed



(1)

Subject to subrule (2), a determination of a parenting coordinator
referred to in section 18 of the

Family Law Act

may be filed in a family law case.

[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 2.]






Agreement must be filed



(2)

If the parenting coordinator who makes a determination was engaged
under an agreement referred to in section 15 (1) of the

Family Law Act

, the determination must not be filed until that agreement has been
filed under Rule 2-1.

[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 2.]







Filing determinations under the
Family Law Act




(3)

To file a determination under subrule (1), a copy of the determination
must be attached to a requisition in Form F17.2 and the requisition
must be filed.

[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 2.]



Rule 2-1.2 — Arbitration Awards






Arbitration awards may be filed



(1)

An arbitration award may be filed in a registry.

[en. B.C. Reg. 121/2014, s. 2.]






Filing arbitration awards



(2)

To file an arbitration award under subrule (1), a certified copy of
the arbitration award must be attached to a requisition in Form F17.3
and the requisition must be filed.

[en. B.C. Reg. 121/2014, s. 2.]



Rule 2-2 — Joint Family Law Case






Joint family law case



(1)

A family law case may be started jointly by the persons involved if
all relief, except any claim for divorce, is by consent.




[See Rule 10-10 for the process to be followed for obtaining judgment
in a joint family law case.]








Notice of family claim in joint family law case




(2)

In a joint family law case, the notice of family claim




(a)

must be in Form F1, and




(b)

need not be served.







Withdrawal from joint family law case



(3)

A person may withdraw from a joint family law case by




(a)

filing a notice of withdrawal in Form F2, and




(b)

serving a copy of the filed notice of withdrawal by personal service
in accordance with Rule 6-3 (2).







Claiming additional relief



(4)

If a person who withdraws from a joint family law case wishes to
oppose a claim made in the joint notice of family claim or wishes to
claim other relief, that person must, at the time of filing the notice
of withdrawal, file a response to family claim or counterclaim or
both.







Application of rules



(5)

If a notice of withdrawal is filed under subrule (3), these Supreme
Court Family Rules apply to the family law case as if it were not a
joint family law case.




Rule 2-2.1 —
Civil Marriage Act
(Canada)







Application under Part 2 of the
Civil Marriage Act
(Canada)




(1)

In this Rule,



"court order"

, in respect of a marriage to which Part 2 of the

Civil Marriage Act

(Canada) applies, means a certified copy of an order from a court in
the jurisdiction where one of the spouses resides declaring that the
other spouse




(a)

is incapable of making decisions about his or her civil status because
of a mental disability,




(b)

is unreasonably withholding consent, or




(c)

cannot be found;



"supporting affidavit"

means an affidavit respecting the grounds for divorce as set out in
section 7 (1) of the

Civil Marriage Act

(Canada).

[en. B.C. Reg. 4/2016, s. 1.]






What to file



(2)

A divorce under Part 2 of the

Civil Marriage Act

(Canada) may be sought by filing all of the following:




(a)

an application in Form F1.1;




(b)

the marriage certificate;




(c)

the applicable of the following:




(i)

a supporting affidavit sworn by both spouses;




(ii)

supporting affidavits sworn by each spouse;




(iii)

a supporting affidavit sworn by the applicant spouse and a court order
respecting the other spouse.

[en. B.C. Reg. 4/2016, s. 1.]






Certificate



(3)

A certificate of divorce referred to in section 9 of the

Civil Marriage Act

(Canada) must be in Form F1.2 and may be signed and issued by the
registrar.

[en. B.C. Reg. 4/2016, s. 1.]



Part 3 — How to Start and Defend a Family Law Case



Rule 3-1 — Choosing the Correct Form of Proceeding







Commencing family law cases by notice of family claim




(1)

Except for those special situations referred to in subrules (2.1) to
(2.4), (4.1), (4.4) and (4.5) of this rule, every family law case must
be started by filing a notice of family claim under Rule 4-1.


[am. B.C. Regs. 133/2012, s. 3 (a); 121/2014, s. 3 (a).]







Repealed



(2)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 3 (b).]







Joint family law case



(2.1)

A joint family law case must be started in accordance with Rule 2-2.

[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 3 (b).]






When petition must be used



(2.2)

The following orders must be sought in a family law case started in
accordance with subrule (3) of this rule:




(a)

an order for adoption;




(b)

an order for return of a child under the Convention on the Civil
Aspects of International Child Abduction signed at The Hague on
October 25, 1980;




(c)

an order granting a person, other than a spouse,




(i)

leave under section 16.1 (3) of the

Divorce Act

to make an application for a parenting order or interim parenting
order in respect of a child, or




(ii)

leave under section 16.5 (3) of the

Divorce Act

to make an application for a contact order or interim contact order
that provides for contact between the person and a child;




(d)

an order granting a person, other than a former spouse, to whom a
parenting order does not relate leave under section 17 (2)
of the

Divorce Act

to make an application for an order varying, rescinding or suspending
the parenting order.


[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 3 (b); am. B.C. Reg. 208/2020, s. 1.]







Order for declaration of parentage



(2.3)

An order for a declaration of parentage must be sought in a family law
case




(a)

started by filing a notice of family claim under Rule 4-1, or




(b)

in accordance with subrule (4) of this rule.

[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 3 (b).]







When petitions or applications must be used




(2.4)

The following orders must be sought in accordance with subrule (4) of
this rule:




(a)

an order under section 35 or 36 of the

Family Law Act

to recognize a Canadian extraprovincial declaratory order or a
non-Canadian extraprovincial declaratory order respectively;




(b)

directions sought by a guardian of a child under section 49 of the

Family Law Act

;




(c)

an order under section 75 of the

Family Law Act

to recognize an extra provincial order;




(d)

an order under section 231 (4) of the

Family Law Act

to apprehend a child;




(e)

an order under the

Divorce Act

to vary, rescind or suspend a support order, parenting order or
contact order of another court;




(f)

an order under section 183 of the

Family Law Act

;




(g)

an order under section 28 of the

Child, Family and Community Service Act

;




(h)

an order under section 10 of the

Family Orders and Agreements Enforcement Assistance Act

(Canada) authorizing an official of the court to make an application
under section 12 of that Act for the release of information.


[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 3 (b); am. B.C. Regs. 121/2014, s. 3 (b);
208/2020, s. 2; 219/2023, Sch. 1, s. 1.]







Petitions



(3)

To obtain any of the orders referred to in subrule (2.2), a person
must start a family law case by petition under Rule 17-1 and seek the
order within that family law case.

[am. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 3 (c).]






Applications and petitions



(4)

To obtain any of the orders referred to in subrule (2.3) (b) or (2.4)
of this rule, a person must apply for the order as follows:




(a)

if there is an existing family law case within which, under these
Supreme Court Family Rules, it is appropriate to seek that order, the
application for that order must be made in that family law case;




(b)

if there is no existing family law case within which it is appropriate
to seek that order, a person wishing to obtain that order must start a
family law case by petition under Rule 17-1 and seek the order within
that family law case.

[am. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 3 (d) and (e).]







Filing agreements under the
Family Law Act




(4.1)

If a person files under Rule 2-1 (2) a requisition to which an
agreement is attached and there is no existing family law case within
which it is appropriate to file the requisition, the filing of the
requisition under that rule starts a family law case.

[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 3 (f).]







Style of proceedings if filing of agreement starts family law case




(4.2)

If the filing of a requisition starts a family law case under subrule
(4.1) of this rule, the style of proceeding in the family law case
must name the person filing the requisition as "Claimant" and the
other parties to the agreement as "Respondents".

[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 3 (f).]







Filing determinations of parenting coordinators




(4.3)

Without limiting Rule 2-1.1 (2), if a person wishes to file a
determination of a parenting coordinator under Rule 2-1.1 and there is
no existing family law case within which it is appropriate to file the
determination, the person must first start a family law case under
subrule (4.1) of this rule and file the determination within that
family law case.

[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 3 (f).]







Filing a requisition to appoint a litigation representative




(4.4)

If a person files a requisition under Rule 20-6 (3) and there is no
existing family law case within which it is appropriate to file the
requisition, the filing of that requisition under that rule starts a
family law case, the style of proceeding of which must be "In the
Matter of the Estate of" followed by the name of the deceased.

[en. B.C. Reg. 90/2014, Sch. 2, s. 2.]







Filing arbitration awards under the
Family Law Act




(4.5)

If a person files under Rule 2-1.2 (1) a requisition to which an
arbitration award is attached and there is no existing family law case
within which it is appropriate to file the requisition, the filing of
the requisition under that rule starts a family law case.

[en. B.C. Reg. 121/2014, s. 3 (c).]







Style of proceedings if filing of arbitration award starts family
law case




(4.6)

If the filing of a requisition starts a family law case under subrule
(4.5) of this rule, the style of proceeding in the family law case
must name the person filing the requisition as "Claimant" and the
other parties to the arbitration as "Respondents".

[en. B.C. Reg. 121/2014, s. 3 (c).]






Joining claims and parties



(5)

A claim that, on its own, would not be the subject matter of a family
law case may be brought in a family law case, and a person by or
against whom any such claim is made may be added as a party in that
family law case, if




(a)

relief referred to in paragraph (a), (b), (c), (d) or (e) of the
definition of "family law case" in Rule 1-1 is being sought in the
family law case, and




(b)

the claim is related to or connected with any of that relief.

[am. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 3 (g).]



Part 4 — Family Law Cases Started by Filing a Notice of Family Claim



Rule 4-1 — Notice of Family Claim






Notice of family claim



(1)

To start a family law case other than a family law case referred to in
Rule 3-1 (2.1), (2.2), (2.3) (b), (2.4) or (4.1), a person must file a
notice of family claim in Form F3.


[A joint family law case is to be brought under Rule 2-2.]



[An application to change, suspend or terminate an existing order is
to be brought under Part 10.]



[am. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 4, as am by B.C. Reg. 67/2013, s. 1 (b).]







Service



(2)

After filing a notice of family claim, the claimant must serve a copy
of the filed notice of family claim on each of the persons named as a
respondent in the notice of family claim




(a)

by personal service in accordance with Rule 6-3 (2), or




(b)

if the court makes an order under Rule 6-4 (1) allowing service by an
alternative method, by that alternative method.



[Rule 4-2 limits the time for service.]


[Part 6 provides instructions about service.]



Rule 4-2 — Serving and Renewing the Notice of Family Claim







Renewal of original notice of family claim




(1)

An original notice of family claim does not remain in force for more
than 12 months, but if a respondent named in a notice of family claim
has not been served, the court, on the application of the claimant
made before or after the expiration of the 12 months, may order that
the original notice of family claim be renewed for a period of not
more than 12 months.








Further renewal of notice of family claim




(2)

If a renewed notice of family claim has not been served on a
respondent named in the notice of family claim, the court, on the
application of the claimant made during the currency of the renewed
notice of family claim, may order the renewal of the notice of family
claim for a further period of not more than 12 months.







When renewal period begins



(3)

Unless the court otherwise orders, a renewal period ordered under
subrule (1) or (2) begins on the date of the order.








After renewal of notice of family claim




(4)

Unless the court otherwise orders, a copy of each order granting
renewal of a notice of family claim must be served with the renewed
notice of family claim, and the renewed notice of family claim remains
in force and is available to prevent the operation of any statutory
limitation and for all other purposes.




Rule 4-3 — Responding to a Notice of Family Claim






Filing a response to family claim



(1)

To respond to a notice of family claim, a person must, within 30 days
after being served,




(a)

file a response to family claim in Form F4, and




(b)

serve a copy of the filed response to family claim on the claimant and
on the other persons named in the notice of family claim as
respondents.








No notice of hearing if no response to family claim




(2)

A person served with a notice of family claim under Rule 4-1 (2) who
does not file a response to family claim in accordance with subrule
(1) of this rule is not entitled to receive notice of any part of the
family law case including, without limitation, any court appearance,
hearing, conference or trial.




Rule 4-4 — Counterclaim






Counterclaim



(1)

In addition to filing a response to family claim under Rule 4-3, a
respondent may bring one or more of the following against the
claimant:




(a)

a claim under the

Divorce Act

;




(b)

a claim under the

Family Law Act

;




(b.1)

a claim for a FHRMIRA order;




(c)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 6 (a).]




(d)

a claim for annulment of marriage;




(e)

a claim,




(i)

based on unjust enrichment or other trust claims, for an interest in
property, or




(ii)

based on unjust enrichment, for compensation


if the claim for the interest or compensation arises out of a
marriage-like relationship;




(f)

a claim that, on its own, would not be the subject matter of a family
law case if the claim is related to or connected with any of the
relief sought in the family law case.



[Orders that may be sought under subrule (1) include orders
concerning guardianship, parenting arrangements or contact with a
child, orders for support for a child or spouse, protection orders,
orders dealing with property and divorce orders.]



[am. B.C. Regs. 133/2012, ss. 5 and 6; 249/2014, s. 2.]







Form of counterclaim



(2)

To seek an order referred to in subrule (1) of this rule, a party
named as a respondent must file a counterclaim in Form F5 within 30
days after being served with the notice of family claim.








Counterclaim may include claims against persons other than the
claimant




(3)

If one or more of the claims made in a counterclaim brought by a
respondent against the claimant also relate to another person, the
respondent may name that other person as a respondent to the
counterclaim.







Service required



(4)

A respondent who files a counterclaim must,




(a)

within 30 days after being served with the notice of family claim,
serve a copy of the filed counterclaim by ordinary service on all
parties, and




(b)

within 60 days after being served with the notice of family claim,
serve a copy of the filed counterclaim and a copy of the filed notice
of family claim by personal service in accordance with Rule 6-3 (2) on
any person who is not yet a party to the family law case but against
whom a claim is made in the counterclaim.








Parties against whom relief is sought must respond




(5)

To respond to a counterclaim, the claimant and any other person named
as a respondent to the counterclaim must, within 30 days after being
served,




(a)

file a response to counterclaim in Form F6, and




(b)

serve a copy of the filed response to counterclaim on all parties.








No notice of hearing if no response to counterclaim




(6)

A person referred to in subrule (4) (b) who does not file a response
to counterclaim in accordance with subrule (5) is not entitled to
receive notice of any part of the family law case including, without
limitation, any court appearance, hearing, conference or trial.








If family law case stayed or discontinued




(7)

A respondent's counterclaim in a family law case may proceed even
though the claimant's claim in the family law case has been stayed,
discontinued or dismissed.







Separate trial of counterclaim



(7.1)

If, on the application of a party against whom a counterclaim is made,
it appears that the subject matter of the counterclaim ought to be
dealt with separately, the court may order that the counterclaim be
struck out or tried separately or may make any other order the court
considers will further the object of these Supreme Court Family Rules.

[en. B.C. Reg. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 2.]






Judgment



(8)

If a set-off or counterclaim establishes a defence to the claimant's
claim, the court may grant judgment in favour of the respondent for
any balance in the respondent's favour or for other relief as the
court considers appropriate.




Rule 4-5 — Other Rules about Notice of Family Claim Cases






Person allegedly involved in adultery



(1)

If it is alleged in a notice of family claim or counterclaim that a
spouse has committed adultery with another person,




(a)

that other person must not be identified in the notice of family claim
or counterclaim unless that other person is named as a party to the
family law case,




(b)

that other person must not be named as a party to the family law case
unless relief, other than or in addition to costs, is claimed against
the person, and




(c)

the identity of that other person may be demanded by the party
alleging adultery, but any information provided in response to that
demand must not be filed before the trial or application for final
order.







Marriage certificate to be filed



(2)

The first person to file in a family law case a document in which a
claim for divorce or nullity is made must file with that document a
certificate of the marriage or of registration of the marriage unless




(a)

the filed document




(i)

sets out the reasons why the certificate is not being filed with the
document and states that the certificate will be filed before the
family law case is set down for trial or before an application is made
for an order of divorce or nullity, or




(ii)

sets out the reasons why it is impossible to file a certificate, and




(b)

the registrar is satisfied with the reasons given for the failure or
inability to file such a certificate.

[am. B.C. Reg. 321/2021, Sch. 2, s. 1.]






Withdrawal



(3)

In a family law case in which a divorce is claimed, a party who has
filed a pleading may withdraw that document or any part of it by
filing and serving a notice of withdrawal in Form F7.




Rule 4-6 — Pleadings Generally


Content of Pleadings






Inconsistent allegations



(1)

A party must not, in a pleading, make an allegation of fact or raise a
new ground or claim inconsistent with the party's previous pleading.







Alternative allegations



(2)

Subrule (1) does not affect the right of a party to make allegations
in the alternative or to amend or apply for leave to amend a pleading.



Particulars






Order for particulars



(3)

The court may order a party to serve further and better particulars of
a matter stated in a pleading.







Demand for particulars



(4)

Before applying to the court for particulars, a party must demand them
in writing from the other party.








Demand for particulars not a stay of proceedings




(5)

A demand for particulars does not operate as a stay of proceedings or
give an extension of time, but a party may apply for an extension of
time for serving a response to family claim or a response to
counterclaim on the ground that the party cannot answer the notice of
family claim or counterclaim respectively until particulars are
provided.




Part 5 — Financial Disclosure



Rule 5-1 — Financial Disclosure


Interpretation






Interpretation



(1)

In this rule:



"applicable income documents"

means, in respect of a person,




(a)

a copy of every personal income tax return filed by the person for
each of the 3 most recent taxation years,




(b)

a copy of every notice of income tax assessment or reassessment issued
to the person for each of the 3 most recent taxation years,




(c)

if the person is receiving employment insurance benefits, a copy of
the 3 most recent employment insurance benefit statements,




(d)

if the person is receiving workers' compensation benefits, a copy of
the 3 most recent workers' compensation benefit statements,




(e)

if the person is receiving income assistance, current documentary
evidence of the income assistance that is being received by that
person,




(f)

if the person is an employee,




(i)

the most recent statement of earnings indicating the total earnings
paid to the person in the year to date, including overtime, or




(ii)

if that statement is not provided by the employer, a letter from the
person's employer setting out the information referred to in
sub-paragraph (i) and including the person's rate of annual salary or
remuneration,




(g)

if the person is self employed, the following information for the 3
most recent taxation years:




(i)

the financial statements of the person's business or professional
practice, other than a partnership;




(ii)

a statement showing a breakdown of all salaries, wages, management
fees or other payments or benefits paid to, or on behalf of, persons
or corporations with whom the person does not deal at arm's length,




(h)

if the person is a partner in a partnership, confirmation of the
person's income and draw from, and capital in, the partnership for
each of its 3 most recent taxation years,




(i)

if the person controls a corporation, the following information for
the corporation's 3 most recent taxation years:




(i)

the financial statements of the corporation and its subsidiaries;




(ii)

a statement showing a breakdown of all salaries, wages, management
fees or other payments or benefits paid to, or on behalf of, persons
or corporations with whom the corporation and every related
corporation does not deal at arm's length,




(j)

if the person is a beneficiary under a trust, a copy of the trust
settlement agreement and copies of the trust's 3 most recent financial
statements, and




(k)

if the person owns or has an interest in real property, a copy of the
most recent assessment notice issued from an assessment authority for
each property;



"child support guidelines"

means,




(a)

in reference to a claim under the

Family Law Act

, the child support guidelines established under the

Family Law Act

, or




(b)

in reference to a claim under the

Divorce Act

, the child support guidelines established under the

Divorce Act

;



"income assistance"

includes




(a)

income assistance within the meaning of the

Employment and Assistance Act

, and




(b)

disability assistance within the meaning of the


Employment and Assistance for Persons with Disabilities Act


;


"party"
means a person named as a party to a family law case who is claiming,
or against whom is claimed,




(a)

an order for child support or an order changing, suspending or
terminating an order for child support,




(b)

an order for spousal support or an order changing, suspending or
terminating an order for spousal support,




(c)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 7 (c), as am. by B.C. Reg. 67/2013,
s. 1 (c).]




(d)

relief under Part 5 of the

Family Law Act

, or




(e)

a FHRMIRA order;


"stepparent"
means, in relation to a child,




(a)

a stepparent of the child within the meaning of section 146 of the

Family Law Act

, or




(b)

a person who stands in the place of a parent for the child within the
meaning of the

Divorce Act

.


[am. B.C. Regs. 133/2012, ss. 5 and 7 (a), (b) and (d) and s. 7 (c),
as am by B.C. Reg. 67/2013, s. 1 (c); 249/2014, s. 3 (a); 321/2021,
Sch. 2, s. 2.]







Application of this rule



(2)

This rule applies to a family law case as follows:




(a)

if, in the family law case, a person is seeking to obtain or to
change, suspend or terminate an order for child support, subrules (1),
(3) to (8) and (11) to (32) apply;




(b)

if, in the family law case, a person is seeking to obtain, review or
change, suspend or terminate an order for spousal support, subrules
(1), (3), (9) and (11) to (32) apply;




(c)

if, in the family law case, a person is seeking to obtain or to
change, suspend or terminate an order for relief under Part 5 of the

Family Law Act

, subrules (1), (3) and (10) to (32) apply;




(c.1)

if, in the family law case, a person is seeking to obtain, vary or
revoke a FHRMIRA order, subrules (1), (3) and (10) to (32) apply;




(d)

if, in the family law case, a person is seeking to set aside or
replace the whole or any part of that portion of an agreement that
deals with child support, subrules (1), (3) to (8) and (11) to (32)
apply;




(e)

if, in the family law case, a person is seeking to review, set aside
or replace the whole or any part of that portion of an agreement that
deals with spousal support, subrules (1), (3), (9) and (11) to (32)
apply.


[am. B.C. Regs. 133/2012, ss. 5 and 7 (e) to (g); 249/2014, s. 3 (b).]







Numbering applicable income documents



(3)

Each page of the applicable income documents that are to be used in
court must be numbered sequentially.



Claims for Child Support







Who must provide Part 1 of a Form F8 financial statement




(4)

Each party who is required under the child support guidelines to
provide income information must file the following documents and must
serve them under subrule (11):




(a)

Part 1 of a Form F8 financial statement;




(b)

the party's applicable income documents;




(c)

any other documents that the party is required to file and serve under
subrules (5) to (7).








Who must provide Parts 2 and 3 of a Form F8 financial statement




(5)

In addition to any other documents a party is obliged to file and
serve under this rule, the party must file Parts 2 and 3 of a Form F8
financial statement and must serve those documents under subrule (11),
if one of the following is true:




(a)

the child support guidelines require the court to consider any or all
of the following:




(i)

the financial ability of the parties;




(ii)

the means of the parties;




(iii)

the condition, means, needs and other circumstances of the parties or
the child;




(b)

the party who is to pay the child support is a stepparent of the
child.








If special or extraordinary expenses are claimed




(6)

A party who makes a claim for special or extraordinary expenses must




(a)

file Part 4 of a Form F8 financial statement, in addition to any other
documents the party is obliged to file under this rule, and




(b)

serve that Part 4 under subrule (11).




["Special or extraordinary expenses" is defined in section 7 of the
child support guidelines.]







If undue hardship is claimed



(7)

In addition to any other documents that a party is obliged to file and
serve under this rule, if a claim for undue hardship is made,




(a)

the party making the claim for undue hardship must file and serve,
under subrule (11), Parts 1, 2, 3, 5 and 6 of a Form F8 financial
statement along with that party's applicable income documents, and




(b)

unless the court otherwise orders, a party other than the party making
the claim for undue hardship must file and serve, under subrule (11),
Parts 1, 2, 3 and 6 of a Form F8 financial statement along with that
party's applicable income documents.




["Undue hardship" is defined in section 10 of the child support
guidelines.]







Agreement avoids need for documents



(8)

Parties are deemed to have complied with the requirements of the child
support guidelines respecting the provision of documents, and with the
requirements of this rule, as it applies to child support, respecting
the filing and service of documents, if




(a)

the parties have agreed on the annual income of the party who is to
pay the child support,




(b)

the parties have signed an agreement in Form F9, and




(c)

the agreement in Form F9 has been filed together with the documents
referred to in that agreement.



Applications for Spousal Support






Who must provide income documents



(9)

In addition to any other documents a party is obliged to file and
serve under this rule, a party must file Parts 1, 2 and 3 of a Form F8
financial statement along with the party's applicable income
documents, and must serve those Parts and applicable income documents
under subrule (11), if one of the following is true:




(a)

the party is seeking to obtain a spousal support order;




(b)

the party is seeking to change, suspend or terminate a spousal support
order;




(c)

a spousal support order is being sought against the party;




(d)

a spousal support order has been obtained against the party and
another party is seeking to change, suspend or terminate that order.

[am. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 7 (e), (h) and (i).]


Applications for Division of Assets







Who must provide Part 3 of a Form F8 financial statement




(10)

Each party who is making a claim under Part 5 of the

Family Law Act

or applying for a FHRMIRA order, or against whom such a claim or an
application is being made, must




(a)

file Part 3 of a Form F8 financial statement, in addition to any other
documents that the party is obliged to file under this rule, and




(b)

serve that Part 3 under subrule (11).


[am. B.C. Regs. 133/2012, s. 5; 249/2014, s. 3 (c).]



Service







When party must file and serve documents




(11)

A party who is obliged to file documents under subrule (4), (5), (6),
(7), (9) or (10) (in this subrule called the "disclosing party") must
file all of those documents that have not already been filed, and
serve on each of the other parties all of those documents that have
not already been served on that party, as follows:




(a)

if the disclosing party's obligation arises because of a claim he or
she made, he or she must file and serve those documents within 30
days, or such other period as the court may order, after service of
the document in which the claim is made;




(b)

if the disclosing party's obligation arises because of a claim made by
another party and the disclosing party resides in Canada or the United
States of America, the disclosing party must file and serve those
documents within 30 days, or such other period as the court may order,
after service of the document in which the claim is made;




(c)

if the disclosing party's obligation arises because of a claim made by
another party and the disclosing party resides in a country other than
Canada or the United States of America, the disclosing party must file
and serve those documents within 60 days, or such other period as the
court may order, after service of the document in which the claim is
made.



Assessment Notice






Assessment notice to be included



(12)

If Part 3 of a Form F8 financial statement is to be served on a party
under this rule, the party serving the Part 3 must, if that party owns
or has an interest in real property, serve, with the Part 3, the most
recent assessment notice prepared for that real property by an
assessment authority unless that assessment notice has already been
served.



Particulars of Form F8 Financial Statements






Particulars may be demanded



(13)

If a Form F8 financial statement lacks sufficient information, the
other party may demand particulars.







Court may order particulars



(14)

If the party from whom particulars are demanded under subrule (13)
fails to provide those particulars within 7 days after receipt of the
demand, the court may, on terms it considers appropriate, make any
order it considers will further the object of these Supreme Court
Family Rules, including




(a)

an order that particulars be served within a specified time, or




(b)

an order that a new Form F8 financial statement be served within a
specified time.



Changes in Financial Circumstances






Information must be kept current



(15)

If information contained in a document filed and served under this
rule is rendered inaccurate or incomplete by a material change in
circumstances, the party who filed and served that document must,
promptly after that material change, serve on all parties




(a)

a written statement setting out the accurate and complete information,
or




(b)

a revised Form F8 financial statement containing the accurate and
complete information.







Additional documents



(16)

If the material change in circumstances referred to in subrule (15) is
such that the party becomes obliged to file and serve documents under
this rule that are additional to the documents previously filed and
served under this rule by that party, the party must




(a)

serve copies of those additional documents within 28 days after the
material change, and




(b)

comply with subrule (15) in relation to the previously served
documents.








If written statement or particulars provided




(17)

If a party provides particulars under subrule (13) or (14) (a) or
serves a written statement under subrule (15) (a),




(a)

the particulars or statement may be treated at a trial or hearing as
forming part of the original Form F8 financial statement of the party,
and




(b)

the other party may, with leave of the court, require that the
particulars or statement be




(i)

verified by an affidavit of the party providing the particulars or
serving the statement, or




(ii)

the subject of further cross-examination.







Updated statements



(18)

A party who has served a Form F8 financial statement more than 91 days
before the start of the trial or hearing of an application to which a
Form F8 is relevant must serve on all parties an updated Form F8
financial statement at least 28 days before but not more than 63 days
before the start of the trial or hearing.



Disclosure of Business Interests






Production of documents



(19)

If a party discloses business or corporate interests in a Form F8
financial statement served under this rule, the party receiving the
Form F8 financial statement may, in writing, request the disclosing
party to produce for inspection and copying specified documents or
classes of documents in the disclosing party's possession or control
that might reasonably be required to verify the valuation of the
disclosing party's interest or to determine the disclosing party's
income.







Responding to demand



(20)

A party who receives a request under subrule (19) must, within 21 days
after receipt, serve on the requesting party a notice stating




(a)

a time and place, during normal business hours, at which the documents
may be inspected, and




(b)

the cost of copying the documents.








Request to corporation, partnership or proprietorship




(21)

If a party who makes a request under subrule (19) is not satisfied
with the reply to the request, the requesting party may serve on the
corporation, partnership or proprietorship in which the disclosing
party has disclosed an interest a written request to produce for
inspection all documents that are relevant to the valuation of the
interest or the determination of the disclosing party's income.







Production required



(22)

A corporation, partnership or proprietorship that receives a request
under subrule (21) must, within 21 days after receipt, provide a
written statement to the requesting party




(a)

detailing the documents in its possession or control that it is
obliged to produce in response to the request,




(b)

identifying those documents, if any, in respect of which the
corporation, partnership or proprietorship intends to seek an
exemption under subrule (24),




(c)

specifying a time and place at which the documents for which an
exemption is not being sought may be inspected, and




(d)

specifying the cost of copying the documents for which an exemption is
not being sought.







Application to court for directions



(23)

A corporation, partnership or proprietorship or either of the parties
may apply to the court at any time for directions respecting any
request for production of documents under subrule (19) or (21),
including directions respecting payment of the costs of copying the
documents, and the court may give those directions accordingly.







Application to court for exemption



(24)

A corporation, partnership or proprietorship may, within 21 days after
the date a request is served on it under subrule (21), apply to the
court for an order exempting it from the requirement to produce any
document.







Application by person authorized



(25)

An application under subrule (23) or (24) may be made on behalf of a
corporation or partnership by a person who has been authorized by the
corporation or partnership for that purpose.







Court may order exemption



(26)

On an exemption application under subrule (24), the court may make an
order exempting the applicant from the requirement to produce all or
any of the requested documents if the court considers that




(a)

the documents and information already received by the party who made
the request under subrule (21) are sufficient for the purposes of the
main application,




(b)

the production of the documents is not necessary for the purposes of
the main application,




(c)

in the case of a corporation, the prejudice that is likely to be
suffered by the corporation, or to its directors or shareholders, if
the exemption is not granted outweighs the prejudice that is likely to
be suffered by the person requesting the documents if the exemption is
granted, or




(d)

in the case of a partnership, the prejudice that is likely to be
suffered by the partnership, or to its partners or associates, if the
exemption is not granted outweighs the prejudice that is likely to be
suffered by the person requesting the documents if the exemption is
granted.







Costs



(27)

The court may order that the costs of producing documents under
subrule (20) or (22) and the costs of an application under subrule
(23) or (24) be paid in favour of or against




(a)

either of the parties to the family law case, or




(b)

the corporation, the partnership or the owner of the proprietorship,
as the case may be.



Enforcement of This Rule






Relief



(28)

Without limiting Rule 21-5 and any other powers the court may have
under the

Family Law Act

, if a party fails to comply with a requirement under this rule to
file or serve a Form F8 financial statement or any applicable income
document or fails to comply with an order under this rule to provide
particulars, the court may do any or all of the following:




(a)

order that the Form F8 financial statement, applicable income document
or particulars, as the case may be, be filed or served or both on
terms the court considers appropriate;




(b)

dismiss all or part of that party's claim or application;




(c)

strike out all or part of that party's response to family claim or
response to counterclaim;




(d)

proceed under Rule 21-7 to punish the party for contempt of court;




(e)

impose a fine under section 213 (2) (d) (iii) of the

Family Law Act

;




(f)

draw an adverse inference against the party;




(g)

attribute income to that party in an amount the court considers
appropriate;




(h)

make an order as to costs.



[Rule 21-5 sets out what the court may do if parties fail to comply
with these rules.]


[am. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 7 (j) and (k).]


Confidentiality of Information






Confidentiality



(29)

Any person who has access to documents obtained under this rule must
keep the documents and any information contained in them in confidence
and must not disclose the documents or information to anyone other
than




(a)

for the purposes of a valuation of an asset,




(b)

for a determination of the disclosing party's income, or




(c)

in the course of permitting the documents to be introduced into
evidence during the family law case.







Sealing of financial information



(30)

If the court considers that public disclosure of any information filed
under this rule would be a hardship on the person in respect of whom
the information is filed,




(a)

the court may order that the whole or any part of the document in
which the information is contained, and the whole or any part of the
transcript of the cross-examination on the document, must promptly be
sealed in an envelope, and




(b)

if an order is made under paragraph (a), no person may search the
sealed documents without an order of the court.



Conflict with Guidelines






Child support guidelines prevail



(31)

If and to the extent that there is a conflict between any provision of
this rule and a provision of the child support guidelines, the
provision of the child support guidelines prevails.







No conflict



(32)

For the purposes of subrule (31), it is not a conflict between the
child support guidelines and this rule merely because this rule




(a)

requires a person to provide information that is different from or
additional to the information, if any, that that person would be
obliged to provide under the child support guidelines,




(b)

requires that certain information required by this rule but not by the
child support guidelines be presented in a manner or form that is
different from the manner or form in which information required under
the child support guidelines is to be presented, or




(c)

requires the provision, in one manner or form, of information some or
all of which is required under the child support guidelines to be
provided in a different manner or form.




Part 6 — Service



Rule 6-1 — Address for Service







Required addresses for service of party represented by lawyer




(1)

A party to a family law case who is represented by a lawyer must have,
as the party's addresses for service, both




(a)

an e-mail address, if available, and




(b)

an accessible address that is an office address of that lawyer.

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 2.]







Required addresses for service of unrepresented party




(1.1)

A party to a family law case who is not represented by a lawyer must




(a)

have, as the party's addresses for service, both




(i)

an e-mail address, if available, and




(ii)

an accessible address within 30 kilometres of the registry, or




(b)

if the party does not have an accessible address within 30 kilometres
of the registry, have, as the party's addresses for service, both




(i)

an e-mail address, if available, and




(ii)

either




(A)

a postal address in British Columbia, or




(B)

a fax number.

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 2.]






Additional addresses for service



(2)

A party may have, in addition to the address or addresses for service
the party is required to have under subrule (1) or (1.1), one or more
of the following as addresses for service:




(a)

a postal address;




(b)

a fax number;




(c)

an additional e-mail address.

[am. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 3.]






Change of address for service



(3)

A party may change the party's address or addresses for service by
filing and serving on the other parties a notice of address for
service in Form F10 that shows, for the party,




(a)

the address or addresses for service required under subrule (1) or
(1.1), and




(b)

any additional addresses for service referred to in subrule (2) that
the party wishes to include.

[am. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 4.]



Rule 6-2 — Ordinary Service



[See Rule 6-5 for rules on how service is effected outside British
Columbia.]








Documents normally to be served by ordinary service




(1)

Subject to Rule 6-3 (1) and unless the court otherwise orders,
documents to be served by a party under these Supreme Court Family
Rules may be served by ordinary service.








How to serve documents by ordinary service




(2)

Unless the court otherwise orders, ordinary service of a document is
to be effected




(a)

on a person, other than the FMEP Director, in any of the following
ways:




(i)

by leaving the document at the person's address for service;




(ii)

by mailing the document by ordinary mail to the person's address for
service;




(iii)

subject to subrule (5) of this rule, if a fax number is provided as
one of the person's addresses for service, by faxing the document to
that fax number together with a fax cover sheet;




(iv)

if an e-mail address is provided as one of the person's addresses for
service, by e-mailing the document to that e-mail address, or




(b)

on the FMEP Director by




(i)

mailing it to the post office box number provided by the FMEP
Director, or




(ii)

faxing it to the fax number provided by the FMEP Director.








When service by delivery is deemed to be completed




(3)

A document served by leaving it at a person's address for service is
deemed to be served on the person as follows:




(a)

if the document is left at the address for service at or before 4 p.m.
on a day that is not a Saturday or holiday, the document is deemed to
be served on the day of service;




(b)

if the document is left at the address for service on a Saturday or
holiday or after 4 p.m. on any other day, the document is deemed to be
served on the next day that is not a Saturday or holiday.








When service by mail is deemed to be completed




(4)

A document sent for service by ordinary mail under this rule is deemed
to be served one week later on the same day of the week as the day of
mailing or, if that deemed day of service is a Saturday or holiday, on
the next day that is not a Saturday or holiday.







When documents may be served by fax



(5)

A document may be served by fax as follows:




(a)

if the document, including the fax cover sheet, is less than 30 pages,
the document may be served by fax at any time;




(b)

if the document, including the fax cover sheet, is 30 pages or more,
the document may be served by fax if it is transmitted




(i)

between 5 p.m. and the following 8 a.m., or




(ii)

at another time if the person receiving the document agreed to that
time before service.








When service by fax or e-mail is deemed to be completed




(6)

A document transmitted for service by fax or e-mail under this rule is
deemed to be served as follows:




(a)

if the document is transmitted before 4 p.m. on a day that is not a
Saturday or holiday, the document is deemed to be served on the day of
transmission;




(b)

if the document is transmitted on a Saturday or holiday or after 4
p.m. on any other day, the document is deemed to be served on the next
day that is not a Saturday or holiday.



[Sunday is a holiday for the purposes of this Rule.]






If no address for service given



(7)

If, despite these Supreme Court Family Rules, a party on whom a
document is to be served has no address for service, and if these
Supreme Court Family Rules do not specify that the document must be
served by personal service on the party,




(a)

the document may be served by mailing a copy of the document by
ordinary mail to




(i)

the lawyer acting for the party in the family law case, or




(ii)

if the party has no lawyer in the family law case, to the party's last
known address, and




(b)

subrule (4) applies.








Request for copy of document served by e-mail




(8)

If a document is transmitted for service by e-mail and the person
receiving the document requests, within 3 days of receiving that
document, that a copy be sent to another address for service for that
person, the party who served the document by e-mail must provide the
copy at the requested address for service within 7 days of receiving
that request or as agreed upon by the parties.

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 5.]



Rule 6-3 — Personal Service



[See Rule 6-5 for rules on how service is effected outside British
Columbia.]








When documents must be served by personal service




(1)

Unless the court otherwise orders, the following documents must be
served by personal service in accordance with subrule (2):




(a)

a notice of family claim;




(b)

a petition;




(c)

a counterclaim if that counterclaim is being served on a person who
has not yet filed a pleading in the family law case;




(d)

a notice of withdrawal under Rule 2-2 (3) or 4-5 (3);




(e)

a notice of application to




(i)

change, suspend or terminate an existing final order,




(ii)

set aside or replace the whole or any part of an agreement filed under
Rule 2-1 (2),




(iii)

change or set aside the determination of a parenting coordinator filed
under Rule 2-1.1 (1), or




(iv)

change, suspend or terminate an arbitration award filed under Rule
2-1.2 (1),


and the accompanying documents referred to in Rule 10-6 (6);




(f)

a summons to appear at a default hearing or show cause hearing under
Rule 15-5 (1);




(g)

a summons to appear at a committal hearing under Rule 15-5 (2);




(h)

a notice of application under Rule 21-7 for an order for contempt;




(i)

a subpoena to a witness who is not a party;




(j)

a subpoena to a debtor;




(k)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 8 (b).]




(l)

any document not mentioned in paragraphs (a) to (k) of this subrule
that is to be served on a person who is not a party to the family law
case or who has not provided an address for service in the family law
case under Rule 10-6 (10).

[am. B.C. Regs. 133/2012, s. 8; 121/2014, s. 4.]







How to serve documents by personal service




(2)

Unless the court otherwise orders, personal service of a document is
to be effected,




(a)

if the document is to be served on an individual, by having a person
who is not a party and who is at least 19 years of age leave the
document with the individual to be served,




(b)

if the document is to be served on the FMEP Director, by




(i)

mailing it to the post office box number provided by the FMEP
Director, or




(ii)

faxing it to the fax number provided by the FMEP Director,




(c)

if the document is to be served on a corporation,




(i)

by leaving a copy of the document with the president, chair, mayor or
other chief officer of the corporation,




(ii)

by leaving a copy of the document with the city clerk or municipal
clerk,




(iii)

by leaving a copy of the document with the manager, cashier,
superintendent, treasurer, secretary, clerk or agent of the
corporation or of any branch or agency of the corporation in British
Columbia, or




(iv)

in the manner provided by the

Business Corporations Act

or any enactment relating to the service of court documents,


and, for the purpose of this paragraph, if the chief place of business
of the corporation is outside British Columbia, every person who,
within British Columbia, transacts or carries on any of the business
of, or any business for, that corporation is deemed to be an agent of
the corporation,




(d)

if the document is to be served on an unincorporated association,
other than a trade union, by leaving a copy of the document with any
officer of the association,




(e)

if the document is to be served on a trade union, by leaving a copy of
the document with any officer of the trade union or with a business
agent,




(f)

if the document is to be served on an infant, in the manner provided
by the

Infants Act

,




(g)

if the document is to be served on a mentally incompetent person, by
leaving a copy of the document




(i)

with the person's committee or, if there is no committee, with the
person with whom the mentally incompetent person resides or in whose
care he or she is or with the person appointed by the court to be
served in the mentally incompetent person's place, and




(ii)

with the Public Guardian and Trustee,


and in no case is it necessary to show the original document,




(h)

if the document is to be served on a principal referred to in subrule
(3), in accordance with subrules (3) to (5), or




(i)

if the document is to be served on the Attorney General, in accordance
with subrule (6).







Service on Attorney General



(3)

A document to be served on the Attorney General must be served at the
Ministry of Attorney General in the City of Victoria, and is
sufficiently served if it is left during office hours with any lawyer
on the staff of the Attorney General at Victoria or mailed by
registered mail to the Deputy Attorney General at Victoria.


[am. B.C. Regs. 27/2013, Sch. 2, s. 15; 99/2018, Sch. 2, s. 18.]








When personal service is deemed to be completed




(4)

A document served by personal service is deemed to be served as
follows:




(a)

if the document is served before 4 p.m. on a day that is not a
Saturday or holiday, the document is deemed to be served on the day of
service;




(b)

if the document is served on a Saturday or holiday or after 4 p.m. on
any other day, the document is deemed to be served on the next day
that is not a Saturday or holiday.



[Sunday is a holiday for the purposes of this subrule.]






Date of deemed service



(5)

If a notice of family claim, counterclaim or petition has not been
served on a person, but the person files a response to family claim,
response to counterclaim or response to petition or attends at the
trial or hearing, the notice of family claim, counterclaim or petition
is deemed to have been served on that person on the date the person
files or attends.




Rule 6-4 — Alternative Methods of Service






Alternative service methods



(1)

If it is impracticable to serve a document by personal service or if
the person to be served by personal service




(a)

cannot be found after a diligent search, or




(b)

is evading service of the documents,


the court may, on application without notice, make an order for
substituted service granting permission to use an alternative method
of service.

[am. B.C. Reg. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 3 (a).]







If an alternative service method is permitted




(2)

If a document is to be served by an alternative method permitted under
subrule (1), a copy of the entered substituted service order that
granted permission to use that alternative method must be served with
the document unless




(a)

the court otherwise orders, or




(b)

the alternative method of service permitted under subrule (1) is
service by advertisement.

[am. B.C. Reg. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 3 (b).]






Service by advertisement



(3)

If, under subrule (1), the court permits a document to be served by
advertisement, the advertisement must be in Form F11.




Rule 6-5 — Service Outside British Columbia







Service outside British Columbia without leave




(1)

A notice of family claim, counterclaim, petition or other document in
a family law case may be served on a person outside British Columbia
without leave if the court has jurisdiction in relation to the family
law case under section 10 of the

Court Jurisdiction and Proceedings Transfer Act

, section 74 of the

Family Law Act

or section 3 or 4 of the

Divorce Act

.

[am. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 9.]







Application for leave to serve outside the jurisdiction




(2)

In any case not provided for in subrule (1), leave of the court must
be obtained before a notice of family claim, counterclaim, petition or
other document may be served outside British Columbia, and the court
may grant such leave on an application referred to in subrule (3).








Applications may be made without notice




(3)

An application for leave to serve a person outside British Columbia




(a)

may be made without notice in accordance with Rule 10-5 (1) (c), and




(b)

must be supported by an affidavit or other evidence showing




(i)

in what place or country that person is or probably may be found, and




(ii)

the grounds on which the application is made.







Service of order and related documents



(4)

If an order is made granting leave to serve a notice of family claim,
counterclaim, petition or other document outside British Columbia, the
following documents must be served with that notice of family claim,
counterclaim, petition or other document:




(a)

a copy of the filed notice of application, or requisition, for leave
to serve;




(b)

a copy of all filed affidavits in support of the application;




(c)

a copy of the entered order granting leave to serve.







If service without leave valid



(5)

This rule does not invalidate service of a document outside British
Columbia without leave of the court if the document could have been
validly served apart from this rule.







Contract containing terms for service



(6)

Despite this rule, the parties to a contract may agree




(a)

that the court will have jurisdiction to hear a family law case in
respect of the contract, and




(b)

that a document in the family law case may be served




(i)

at any place, within or outside British Columbia,




(ii)

on any party,




(iii)

on any person on behalf of any party, or




(iv)

in any manner

specified in the contract.







Contract does not invalidate effective service




(7)

Service of a document in accordance with a contract referred to in
subrule (6) is effective service, but no contractual stipulation as to
service of a document invalidates service that would otherwise be
effective under these Supreme Court Family Rules.







Definition



(8)

In subrules (9) to (12),
"Convention"
means the Convention on the Service Abroad of Judicial and
Extrajudicial Documents in Civil or Commercial Matters, signed at the
Hague on November 15, 1965.







Manner of service abroad



(9)

A document may be served outside British Columbia




(a)

in a manner provided by these Supreme Court Family Rules for service
in British Columbia,




(b)

in a manner provided by the law of the place where service is made if,
by that manner of service, the document could reasonably be expected
to come to the notice of the person to be served, or




(c)

in a state that is a contracting state under the Convention, in a
manner provided by or permitted under the Convention.







Proof of service abroad



(10)

Service of a document outside British Columbia may be proved




(a)

in a manner provided by these Supreme Court Family Rules for proof of
service in British Columbia,




(b)

in the manner provided for proof of service by the law of the place
where service was made regardless of the manner under subrule (9) by
which service was effected, or




(c)

in accordance with the Convention, if service was effected under
subrule (9) (c).







Forms



(11)

If service is to be made in accordance with Article 5 of the
Convention, Forms F12 and F13 must be used.







Certificate



(12)

If an authority has, in accordance with Article 6 of the Convention,
completed a certificate in Form F14, the certificate is evidence of
the facts stated in it.




Rule 6-6 — Proving Service






Proof of service



(1)

Service of a document is proved as follows:




(a)

service of a notice of family claim on a person is proved




(i)

by filing an affidavit of personal service in Form F15, or




(ii)

by the person filing a response to family claim;




(b)

service of a counterclaim on a person who has not filed a pleading is
proved




(i)

by filing an affidavit of personal service in Form F15, or




(ii)

by the person filing a response to counterclaim;




(c)

service of a petition on a person is proved




(i)

by filing an affidavit of personal service in Form F15, or




(ii)

by the person filing a response to petition;




(d)

service of any other document served by personal service is proved by
filing an affidavit of personal service in Form F15;




(e)

service of any document that is served by ordinary service is proved




(i)

by filing an affidavit of ordinary service in Form F16, or




(ii)

by filing a requisition in Form F17 to which is attached a written
acknowledgment of receipt signed by the party or lawyer on whom the
document was served.







Proof of service by sheriff



(2)

Service of a document by a sheriff may be proved by a certificate in
Form F18 endorsed on a copy of the document.








Service on member of Canadian Armed Forces




(3)

If a member of the Canadian Armed Forces has been served with a
document by an officer of the Canadian Armed Forces, proof of the
service in the form of a certificate annexed to a copy of the document
served, signed by the officer and stating his or her rank and when,
where and how service was effected, may be filed as proof of service.








Admissibility of other evidence of service




(4)

Nothing in subrule (1) or (2) restricts the court from considering any
other evidence of service that the court considers appropriate in the
circumstances.




Rule 6-7 — Relief







If service is alleged to be ineffective




(1)

If a document has been served in accordance with this Part but a
person can show that the document




(a)

did not come to his or her notice,




(b)

came to his or her notice later than when it was served, or




(c)

was incomplete or illegible,


the court may set aside an order, extend time, order an adjournment or
make such other order as it considers will further the object of these
Supreme Court Family Rules.




Part 7 — Conferences



Rule 7-1 — Judicial Case Conference


Requirement for Judicial Case Conference






Requesting a judicial case conference



(1)

A party may request a judicial case conference at any time, whether or
not one or more judicial case conferences have already been held in
the family law case.








Requirement to hold judicial case conference




(2)

Subject to subrules (3) and (4), unless a judicial case conference has
been conducted in a family law case, a party to the family law case
must not serve on another party a notice of application or an
affidavit in support.



Exceptions







Applications that may be brought before a judicial case conference




(3)

A party to a family law case may file and serve a notice of
application and supporting affidavits in respect of any of the
following applications even though a judicial case conference has not
been conducted in the family law case:




(a)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 10 (a).]




(b)

an application for an order under section 91 of the

Family Law Act

restraining the disposition of any property at issue;




(b.1)

an application for an order under section 32 or 39 of the


Family Homes on Reserves and Matrimonial Interests or Rights Act


(Canada) or a First Nation's law made under that Act with respect to
an equivalent matter;




(c)

an application for a consent order;




(d)

an application without notice;




(e)

an application to change, suspend or terminate a final order;




(f)

an application to set aside or replace the whole or any part of an
agreement;




(g)

an application to change or set aside the determination of a parenting
coordinator.


[am. B.C. Regs. 133/2012, s. 10 (a) to (c); 249/2014, s. 4.]








Court may relieve party from requirement of subrule (2)




(4)

On application by a party, the court may relieve a party from the
requirement of subrule (2) if




(a)

it is premature to require the parties to attend a judicial case
conference,




(b)

it is impracticable or unfair to require the party to comply with the
requirements of subrule (2),




(c)

the application referred to in subrule (2) is urgent,




(d)

delaying the application referred to in subrule (2) or requiring the
party to attend a judicial case conference is or might be dangerous to
the health or safety of any person, or




(e)

the court considers it appropriate that the party be relieved from
that requirement.







How to apply for relief



(5)

To bring an application for relief under subrule (4), a party must
file a requisition in Form F18.1.

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 6 (a).]






Powers of the court



(6)

On an application for relief under subrule (4), the court may do one
or more of the following:




(a)

require that further material be provided;




(b)

require that the party or lawyer appear in person to speak to the
application;




(c)

make the order without requiring the party or lawyer to appear to
speak to the application;




(d)

refuse to make the order;




(e)

make any order the court considers will further the object of these
Supreme Court Family Rules.



Arranging the Judicial Case Conference







How to request a judicial case conference




(7)

To request a judicial case conference, a party must file a notice of
judicial case conference in Form F19.








What must be served if judicial case conference is requested




(8)

The party requesting a judicial case conference must serve on all
parties, at least 30 days before the date set for the judicial case
conference,




(a)

a copy of the filed notice of judicial case conference, and




(b)

a copy of the Form F8 financial statement, if any, required under Rule
5-1, along with the applicable income documents referred to in section
B of Part 1 of the Form F8 financial statement.








Court may require a judicial case conference




(9)

At any stage of a family law case, the court may direct that a
judicial case conference take place and may order a party to




(a)

file a notice of judicial case conference, and




(b)

serve a copy of the filed notice of judicial case conference along
with any financial documents required under subrule (8) (b) in
accordance with subrule (8).








Form F8 financial statement must be filed before judicial case
conference




(10)

A party serving a notice of judicial case conference in accordance
with subrule (8) or (9) must, at least 7 days before the date set for
the judicial case conference, file the original of the Form F8
financial statement, if any, required under Rule 5-1 along with the
applicable income documents referred to in section B of Part 1 of the
Form F8 financial statement.








Other parties must file and serve Form F8 financial statement




(11)

At least 7 days before the date set for a judicial case conference, a
party who has been served with a notice of judicial case conference in
accordance with subrule (8) or (9) must




(a)

serve on the party who served the notice of judicial case conference
and on every other party a copy of the Form F8 financial statement, if
any, required under Rule 5-1 along with the applicable income
documents referred to in section B of Part 1 of the Form F8 financial
statement, and




(b)

file the original Form F8 financial statement along with the
applicable income documents referred to in section B of Part 1 of the
Form F8 financial statement.



Conduct of Judicial Case Conference







Judicial case conference must be conducted by judge or associate
judge




(12)

A judicial case conference must be conducted by a judge or associate
judge.

[am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3, s. 5.]







Who must attend the judicial case conference




(13)

Unless the court otherwise orders, if a judicial case conference is
held, each of the parties and the party's lawyer must attend that
judicial case conference.

[am. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 6 (b).]







Application must be made by requisition




(13.1)

An application under subrule (13) for an order exempting a person from
attending a judicial case conference must be made by requisition in
Form F19.1.

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 6 (c).]







Absent parties must be available and accessible by telephone or
other means




(14)

If the court orders that a party need not attend a judicial case
conference, the party must be readily available and immediately
accessible for consultation during the judicial case conference,
either in person or by telephone.








What happens at the judicial case conference




(15)

The court may do one or more of the following at a judicial case
conference:




(a)

identify the issues that are in dispute and those that are not in
dispute and explore ways in which the issues in dispute may be
resolved without recourse to trial;




(b)

make orders to which all the parties consent;




(c)

mediate any of the issues in dispute;




(d)

with the consent of the parties, refer the parties to a family dispute
resolution professional, within the meaning of the

Family Law Act

, other than a family justice counsellor;




(e)

refer the parties to a family justice counsellor, or to a person
designated by the Attorney General to provide specialized support
assistance, if the court has received written advice from the regional
manager that the family justice counsellor or designated person is
readily available to the parties;




(f)

direct a party to attend the Parenting after Separation program
operated by the Family Justice Services Division (Justice Services
Branch), Ministry of Attorney General;




(g)

make orders respecting amendment of a pleading, petition or response
to petition within a fixed time;




(h)

make orders requiring that particulars be provided in relation to any
matter raised in a pleading;




(i)

make orders respecting discovery of documents;




(j)

make orders respecting examinations for discovery;




(k)

direct that any or all applications must be made within a specified
time;




(l)

reserve a trial date for the family law case or reserve a date for a
trial that is restricted to issues defined by the parties;




(m)

set a date for a trial management conference under Rule 14-3;




(n)

make any orders that may be made at a trial management conference
under Rule 14-3 (9);




(o)

without hearing witnesses, give a non-binding opinion on the probable
outcome of a hearing or trial;




(p)

without limiting any other orders respecting timing that may be made
under this subrule, make orders respecting timing of events;




(q)

adjourn the judicial case conference;




(r)

direct the parties to attend a further judicial case conference at a
specified date and time;




(s)

make any procedural order or give any direction that the court
considers will further the object of these Supreme Court Family Rules.


[am. B.C. Regs. 133/2012, s. 10 (d); 27/2013, Sch. 2, s. 15; 99/2018,
Sch. 2, s. 18.]








Non-attendance at judicial case conference




(16)

Without limiting any other power of the court under these Supreme
Court Family Rules, if a party fails to appear at a judicial case
conference, the court may




(a)

proceed in the absence of the party who failed to appear,




(b)

exercise any of the powers of the court under subrule (15) of this
rule, and




(c)

order that the party who failed to appear pay costs to the other
party.








Judge or associate judge may be seized of further applications




(17)

At a judicial case conference, or at any other time, a judge or
associate judge may order that all applications in the family law case
be heard by that judge or associate judge.

[am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3, s. 5.]







Other judges or associate judges may hear applications




(18)

A judge or associate judge who has made an order under subrule (17)
may at any time direct that any or all applications in the family law
case may be heard by another judge or associate judge.

[am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3, s. 5.]






Proceedings must be recorded



(19)

Proceedings at a judicial case conference must be recorded, but no
part of that recording may be made available to or used by any person
without court order.

[en. B.C. Reg. 95/2011, Sch. B, s. 1.]



Rule 7-2 — Settlement Conferences






Settlement conference



(1)

If, at any stage of a family law case, the parties jointly request a
settlement conference by filing a requisition in Form F17 or a judge
or associate judge directs the parties to attend a settlement
conference, the parties must attend before a judge or associate judge
who must, in private and without hearing witnesses, explore all
possibilities of settlement of the issues that are outstanding.

[am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3, s. 5.]






Proceedings must be recorded



(2)

Proceedings at a settlement conference must be recorded, but no part
of that recording may be made available to or used by any person
without court order.







When judge must not preside



(3)

A judge who has presided at a settlement conference must not preside
at the trial, unless all parties consent.




Part 7.1 — Case Planning



Rule 7.1-1 — Case Planning Conferences







Case planning conference may be requested




(1)

At any time after a judicial case conference has been held in a family
law case, a party may request a case planning conference by




(a)

obtaining a date and time for the case planning conference from the
registry, and




(b)

filing a notice of case planning conference in Form F19.2.

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 7.]







Case planning conference may be directed




(2)

Without limiting subrule (1), at any time after a judicial case
conference has been held in a family law case, the court




(a)

may direct that a case planning conference take place, and




(b)

in that case, must direct that a party request a case planning
conference in accordance with subrule (1).

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 7.]






Time for service of notice



(3)

Unless the court otherwise orders or the parties otherwise agree, a
party who is requesting a case planning conference under
subrule (1) or who has been directed to request a case planning
conference under subrule (2) must serve the filed notice of case
planning conference on the other parties,




(a)

in the case of the first case planning conference to be held in the
family law case, at least 35 days, or any shorter period that the
court may order, before the date set for the case planning conference,
and




(b)

in the case of any other case planning conference to be held in the
family law case, at least 7 days, or any shorter period that the
court may order, before the date set for the case planning conference.

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 7.]







Application must be made by requisition




(4)

An application under subrule (3) (a) or (b) to shorten the service
period applicable to a notice of case planning conference




(a)

must be made by requisition in Form F18.1, and




(b)

unless the court otherwise orders, may be made without notice.


[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 7; am. B.C. Reg. 239/2023, Sch. 2,
s. 1.]







Case plan proposal required



(5)

Unless the court otherwise orders, if a case planning conference is
requested or ordered under this rule, the parties must, before the
first case planning conference to be held in the family law case, file
case plan proposals as follows:




(a)

the party who is requesting the case planning conference must, within
14 days after serving the notice of case planning conference,




(i)

file the party's case plan proposal, and




(ii)

serve a copy of the filed case plan proposal on all other parties;




(b)

each other party must, within 14 days after receipt of the case plan
proposal referred to in paragraph (a),




(i)

file the party's case plan proposal, and




(ii)

serve a copy of the filed case plan proposal on all other parties.

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 7.]






Contents of case plan proposal



(6)

A party's case plan proposal referred to in subrule (5) must be in
Form F19.3 and must, in a summary manner, indicate the party's
proposal with respect to the following steps:




(a)

discovery of documents;




(b)

examinations for discovery;




(c)

obtaining the views of a child, if appropriate;




(d)

dispute resolution procedures;




(e)

expert witnesses;




(f)

witness lists;




(g)

trial type, estimated trial length and preferred periods for the trial
date.

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 7.]



Rule 7.1-2 — Conduct of Case Planning Conference







Case planning conference must be conducted by judge or associate
judge




(1)

A case planning conference held in a family law case must be conducted
by a judge or associate judge.


[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 7; am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3,
s. 5.]







Who must attend



(2)

Unless the court otherwise orders, the following persons must attend a
case planning conference in accordance with subrule (3):




(a)

each lawyer representing a party;




(b)

a party if




(i)

the party is not represented by a lawyer in the family law case, or




(ii)

the party is ordered to attend by the court.

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 7.]






Method of attendance



(3)

Unless the court otherwise orders, a lawyer or party referred to in
subrule (2) must attend a case planning conference held in the family
law case




(a)

in person, or




(b)

by telephone, video conference or other communication medium, if all
persons participating in the case planning conference, whether by
telephone, video conference or other communication medium or in
person, are able to communicate with each other.

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 7.]







Application must be made by requisition




(4)

Each application under subrule (2) for an order exempting a person
from attending a case planning conference




(a)

must be made by requisition in Form F19.1, and




(b)

unless the court otherwise orders, may be made without notice.

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 7.]






Considerations of the court



(5)

If an application is brought under subrule (2) for an order exempting
a person from attending a case planning conference, the court may make
such an order if the court considers that




(a)

attendance must be excused on health or compassionate grounds, or




(b)

other extraordinary circumstances exist that justify the order.

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 7.]







Non-attendance at case planning conference




(6)

If a person who, under subrule (2), is required to attend a case
planning conference fails to attend at that case planning conference,
the case planning conference judge or associate judge may do one or
more of the following:




(a)

proceed in the absence of the person who failed to attend;




(b)

adjourn the case planning conference;




(c)

order that the person, or the party on whose behalf the person was to
attend, pay costs to one or more other parties.


[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 7; am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3,
s. 5.]







Proceedings must be recorded



(7)

Proceedings at a case planning conference must be recorded, but no
part of that recording may be made available to or used by any person
without court order.

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 7.]



Rule 7.1-3 — Case Planning Conference Orders






Orders



(1)

At a case planning conference, the case planning conference judge or
associate judge may make one or more of the following orders in
respect of the family law case, whether or not on the application of a
party:




(a)

setting a timetable for the steps to be taken;




(b)

amending a previous case plan order;




(c)

any order referred to in Rule 21-2 (2);




(d)

requiring amendment of a pleading to provide details of one or more of
the following matters set out in that pleading:




(i)

the facts,




(ii)

the relief sought, or




(iii)

the legal basis on which relief is sought or opposed;




(e)

respecting the length and content of pleadings;




(f)

respecting discovery, listing, production, preservation, exchange or
examination of documents or exhibits, including, without limitation,
orders




(i)

respecting electronically stored information, and




(ii)

that discovery, listing, production, exchange or examination be
limited or otherwise conducted as ordered;




(g)

respecting discovery of parties or the examination or inspection of
persons or property, including, without limitation, that discovery,
examination or inspection be limited, expanded or otherwise conducted
in the manner ordered;




(h)

respecting interrogatories;




(i)

respecting third party claims, including imposing terms on any third
party procedure to limit or avoid any prejudice or unnecessary delay
that might otherwise be suffered by the claimant as a result of that
third party procedure;




(j)

respecting witness lists;




(k)

respecting experts, including, without limitation, orders




(i)

that the expert evidence on any one or more issues be given by one
jointly-instructed expert,




(ii)

respecting the number of experts a party may call,




(iii)

that the parties' experts must confer before the service of their
respective reports,




(iv)

setting a date by which an expert's report must be served on the other
parties, and




(v)

respecting the issues on which an expert may be called;




(l)

respecting admissions;




(m)

respecting offers to settle;




(n)

respecting the conduct of any application;




(o)

requiring the parties to attend one or more of a mediation, a
settlement conference or any other dispute resolution process, and
giving directions for the conduct of the mediation, settlement
conference or other dispute resolution process;




(p)

authorizing or directing the parties to try one or more issues in the
action independently of others;




(q)

fixing the length of trial;




(r)

respecting the place at which any step in the action is to be
conducted;




(s)

setting the action for trial on a particular date or on a particular
trial list;




(t)

striking out a counterclaim or directing that a counterclaim be tried
separately;




(u)

adjourning the case planning conference;




(v)

directing the parties to attend a further case planning conference at
a specified date and time;




(w)

any orders the judge or associate judge considers will further the
object of these Supreme Court Family Rules.


[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 7; am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3,
s. 5.]







Prohibited orders



(2)

A case planning conference judge or associate judge must not, at a
case planning conference,




(a)

hear any application supported by affidavit evidence, except under
subrule (6), or




(b)

make an order for final judgment, except by consent or under subrule
(6).


[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 7; am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3,
s. 5.]







Case plan order required



(3)

Without limiting subrules (1) and (2), the judge or associate judge
conducting a case planning conference must, at the conclusion of the
case planning conference, make a case plan order.


[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 7; am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3,
s. 5.]







Case plan order



(4)

A case plan order under subrule (3) must be in Form F19.4 and




(a)

must set out any order made under subrule (1), and




(b)

may but need not include any other matter referred to in Form F19.4.

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 7.]







When approval in writing by lawyer not required




(5)

Without limiting Rule 15-1 (4), if a case plan order under subrule (3)
is approved in writing by the case planning conference judge or
associate judge, that order need not be approved in writing by a
lawyer or by a party.


[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 7; am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3,
s. 5.]







Consequences of non-compliance



(6)

If a party fails to comply with this Part or an order made under this
rule or if anything is done or omitted improperly or unnecessarily by
or on behalf of a party in relation to anything under this Part, the
court may, on application, do one or both of the following:




(a)

make an order under Rule 21-5;




(b)

despite any other provision of these Supreme Court Family Rules to the
contrary and without limiting Rule 16-1 (13),




(i)

award costs of the application on a lump sum basis, and




(ii)

set the period within which those costs must be paid.

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 7.]







Application may be made at case planning conference




(7)

Without limiting Part 10, a party may apply for an order under subrule
(6) at a case planning conference.

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 7.]






Amendments to case plan orders



(8)

Without limiting the ability of a case planning conference judge or
associate judge to amend a case plan order at a case planning
conference under Rule 7.1-3 (1) (b), the parties may apply
to amend a case plan order by requesting a subsequent case planning
conference under Rule 7.1-1.


[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 7; am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3,
s. 5.]




Part 8 — Amendment of Documents and Change of Parties



Rule 8-1 — Amendment of Pleadings






When pleading may be amended



(1)

Subject to Rules 8-2 (7) and (9) and 9-6 (5), a party may amend the
whole or any part of, including any Schedule to, a pleading filed by
the party, other than by adding or changing parties or withdrawing an
admission,




(a)

once without leave of the court, at any time before service of the
notice of trial, or




(b)

after a notice of trial is served, only with




(i)

leave of the court, or




(ii)

written consent of the parties.


[am. B.C. Regs. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 4; 321/2021, Sch. 2, s. 3.]







How amendments made



(2)

Unless the court otherwise orders, to amend a pleading under subrule
(1), a party must




(a)

amend the pleading in accordance with subrule (3),




(b)

indicate on the amended pleading the date on which the original
version of the pleading was filed, and




(c)

file the amended pleading.







Identifying amendments



(3)

Unless the court otherwise orders, an amendment to a pleading under
this rule must be dated, identified and underlined.







Service of amended pleadings



(4)

Unless the court otherwise orders, if a party amends a pleading under
this rule, the party must do both of the following:




(a)

within 7 days after filing the amended pleading, serve, by ordinary
service, a copy of the filed amended pleading on each party;




(b)

if the amended pleading is a notice of family claim or a counterclaim,
promptly after filing the amended pleading and before taking any
further step in the family law case, serve, by personal service, a
copy of the filed amended pleading on any person who




(i)

was served with a copy of the filed original version of the pleading,
and




(ii)

has not filed a response to family claim or response to counterclaim,
as the case may be, to the original version of the pleading.








Response of a party to amended pleading




(5)

If a pleading (in this subrule and in subrule (6) called the "primary
pleading") is amended under this rule and the amended pleading is
served on a party under subrule (4) (a), that party




(a)

may amend, under this rule, any pleading he or she had filed in
response to the original version of the primary pleading but only with
respect to any matter raised by the amendments to the primary
pleading, and




(b)

in that event, must, within 14 days after being served with the
amended pleading, serve a copy of the filed amended responding
pleading on all parties.








Failure to serve amended responding pleading




(6)

If a party on whom an amended pleading is served under subrule (4) (a)
does not serve an amended responding pleading as provided in subrule
(5), the pleading he or she filed in response to the original version
of the primary pleading is deemed to be the pleading he or she filed
in response to the amended pleading.







Responding to amended pleading



(7)

If a notice of family claim or a counterclaim is amended under this
rule and served under subrule (4) (b) on a person who is not yet a
party, the person must, within 30 days after being served with the
amended notice of family claim or counterclaim, file a response to
family claim or response to counterclaim and Rule 4-3 (2) or 4-4 (6),
as the case may be, applies.







Amendment at trial



(8)

Unless the court otherwise orders, if an amendment is granted during a
trial or hearing, an order need not be taken out and the amended
pleading need not be filed or served.




Rule 8-2 — Change of Parties


Change of Party Status or Interest






Party ceasing to exist



(1)

If a party dies or becomes bankrupt, or a corporate party is wound up
or otherwise ceases to exist, but the claim survives, the family law
case may continue in spite of the death or bankruptcy or the corporate
party having been wound up or ceasing to exist.







Effect of death



(2)

Whether or not the claim survives, a family law case may continue in
spite of either party dying between the verdict or finding on the
issues of fact and the entry of judgment, but judgment may be entered
despite the death.







Assignment or conveyance of interest



(3)

If, by assignment, conveyance or death, an estate, interest or title
devolves or is transferred, a family law case relating to that estate,
interest or title may be continued by or against the person on whom or
to whom that estate, interest or title has devolved or to whom that
estate, interest or title has been transferred.








Change or transmission of interest or liability




(4)

If, after the start of a family law case,




(a)

a change or transmission of interest or liability of a party takes
place or a person interested comes into existence, and




(b)

it becomes necessary or desirable that




(i)

a person not already a party should be named as a party, or




(ii)

a person already a party should be named as a party in another
capacity,


the court may order that the family law case be continued between the
continuing parties and the new party.








Prosecution of family law case if claimant or petitioner dies




(5)

If a claimant or petitioner has died and the family law case may be
continued, a respondent may apply to the court for an order that the
person entitled to proceed do proceed within the time that the court
orders and that, in default, the proceeding be dismissed for want of
prosecution.







Costs on dismissal



(6)

If a family law case is dismissed under subrule (5), an order for
payment of costs may be made and enforced against the assets of the
deceased's estate.



Change of Parties







Adding, removing or substituting parties by order




(7)

At any stage of a family law case, the court, on application by any
person, may, subject to subrule (9),




(a)

order that a person cease to be named as a party if it is not
appropriate or necessary for that person to be named as a party,




(b)

order that a person be named as an additional party or be named as a
party in substitution for another named party if




(i)

that person ought to have been named as a party, or




(ii)

that person's participation in the family law case is necessary to
ensure that all matters in the family law case may be adjudicated on,
and




(c)

order that a person be named as an additional party if there may
exist, between the person and any other person who is named as a party
to the family law case, a question or issue relating to or connected
with




(i)

any relief claimed in the family law case, or




(ii)

the subject matter of the family law case


that, in the opinion of the court, it would be just and convenient to
determine as between the person and the other person who is named as a
party.








Procedure if person added, removed or substituted as named party by
order




(8)

Unless the court otherwise orders, if an order is made under subrule
(7) adding, removing or substituting a person as a named party,




(a)

the notice of family claim must be amended in accordance with Rule 8-1
(2) and (3), a reference to the order must be endorsed on that amended
notice of family claim and Rule 8-1 (4) to (7) applies, and




(b)

if a person is named as an additional party or is named as a party in
substitution for another named party,




(i)

a copy of the entered order must be served on the person along with a
copy of the filed amended document served under Rule 8-1 (4),




(ii)

the person may apply to the court to change or set aside the order
within 21 days after the date on which the order is served on the
person under subparagraph (i) of this paragraph, and




(iii)

unless the court orders, in an application under subparagraph (ii) or
otherwise, that the person not be named as a party, these Supreme
Court Family Rules apply in relation to that newly named party as if
the amended notice of family claim were a new notice of family claim.

[am. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 11.]






Consent required



(9)

A person must not be named as a claimant or petitioner without the
person's consent.







Effect of order



(10)

Unless the court otherwise orders, if a person is named as a party in
substitution for a former party, all things done in the family law
case before the person was named as a party have the same effect in
relation to that person as they had in relation to the former party,
but the person named as a party in substitution for a former party
must file a notice of address for service in Form F10.







Application without notice



(11)

Unless the court otherwise orders, an application under subrule (7)
may be made without notice to any person who is not a party.

[en. B.C. Reg. 105/2019, s. 1.]



Part 9 — Procedures for Obtaining Information and Documents



Rule 9-1 — Discovery and Inspection of Documents






List of documents



(1)

Unless all parties consent or the court otherwise orders, each party
to a family law case must




(a)

prepare a list of documents in Form F20 that lists




(i)

all documents that are or have been in the party's possession or
control and that could, if available, be used by any party at trial to
prove or disprove a material fact, and




(ii)

all other documents to which the party intends to refer at trial, and




(b)

serve the list of documents as follows:




(i)

a person who files a notice of family claim must serve his or her list
of documents on a party within 35 days after being served with that
party's response to family claim or response to counterclaim;




(ii)

a person who files a response to family claim must serve his or her
list of documents on a party within 35 days after serving his or her
response to family claim on that party;




(iii)

a person who files a response to counterclaim must serve his or her
list of documents on a party within 35 days after serving his or her
response to counterclaim on that party unless that list of documents
has already been served on that party.







Documents to be enumerated



(2)

Subject to subrules (3) and (4), each party's list of documents must
include a brief description of each listed document.







Claim for privilege



(3)

If it is claimed that a document is privileged from production, the
claim must be made in the list of documents with a statement of the
grounds of the privilege.








Nature of privileged documents to be described




(4)

The nature of any document for which privilege from production is
claimed must be described in a manner that, without revealing
information that is privileged, will enable other parties to assess
the validity of the claim of privilege.







Affidavit verifying list of documents



(5)

The court may order a party to serve an affidavit verifying a list of
documents.







Amending the list of documents



(6)

If, after a list of documents has been served under this rule,




(a)

it comes to the attention of the party serving it that the list is
inaccurate or incomplete, or




(b)

there comes into the party's possession or control a document that
could be used by any party at trial to prove or disprove a material
fact or any other document to which the party intends to refer at
trial,


the party must promptly amend the list of documents and serve the
amended list of documents on the other parties.

[am. B.C. Reg. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 5 (a).]







Party may demand documents required under this rule




(7)

If a party who has received a list of documents believes that the list
omits documents or a class of documents that should have been
disclosed under subrule (1) or (6), the party may, by written demand,
require the party who prepared the list to




(a)

amend the list of documents,




(b)

serve on the demanding party the amended list of documents, and




(c)

make the originals of the newly listed documents available for
inspection and copying in accordance with subrules (12) and (13).

[am. B.C. Reg. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 5 (b) and (c).]






Party may demand additional documents



(8)

If a party who has received a list of documents believes that the list
should include documents or classes of documents that




(a)

are within the listing party's possession, power or control,




(b)

relate to any or all matters in question in the family law case, and




(c)

are additional to the documents or classes of documents required under
subrule (1) or (6),


the party, by written demand that identifies the additional documents
or classes of documents with reasonable specificity and that indicates
the reason why such additional documents or classes of documents
should be disclosed, may require the party who prepared the list to




(d)

amend the list of documents,




(e)

serve on the demanding party the amended list of documents, and




(f)

make the originals of the newly listed documents available for
inspection and copying in accordance with subrules (12) and (13).

[en. B.C. Reg. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 5 (d).]






Response to demand for documents



(9)

A party who receives a demand under subrule (7) or (8) must, within 35
days after receipt, do one of the following:




(a)

comply with the demand in relation to all of the demanded documents;




(b)

comply with the demand in relation to those of the demanded documents
that the party is prepared to list, and indicate, in relation to the
balance of the demanded documents,




(i)

why a supplementary list of documents that includes those documents is
not being prepared and served, and




(ii)

why those documents are not being made available;




(c)

indicate, in relation to the demanded documents,




(i)

why a supplementary list of documents that includes those documents is
not being prepared and served, and




(ii)

why those documents are not being made available.








Application for production of documents




(10)

If a party who receives a demand under subrule (7) or (8) does not,
within 35 days after receipt, comply with the demand in relation to
all of the demanded documents, the demanding party may apply for an
order requiring the listing party to comply with the demand.







Court may alter requirements



(11)

On an application under subrule (10) or otherwise, the court may




(a)

order that a party be excused from compliance with subrule (1), (3),
(12) or (13) or with a demand under subrule (7) or (8), either
generally or in respect of one or more documents or classes of
documents, or




(b)

order a party to




(i)

amend the list of documents to list additional documents that are or
have been in the party's possession, power or control relating to any
or all matters in question in the family law case,




(ii)

serve the amended list of documents on all parties, and




(iii)

make the originals of the newly listed documents available for
inspection and copying in accordance with subrules (12) and (13).


[am. B.C. Reg. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 5 (b), (c) and (e).]







Inspection of documents



(12)

A party who has served a list of documents on any other party must
allow the other party to inspect and copy, during normal business
hours and at the location specified in the list of documents, the
listed documents except those documents that the listing party objects
to producing.

[am. B.C. Reg. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 5 (f).]






Copies of documents



(13)

If a party is entitled to inspect listed documents under subrule (12),
the listing party must, on the request of the party entitled to
inspection and on receiving payment in advance of the cost of
reproduction and service, serve on the requesting party copies of the
documents, if reproducible, for which a request has been made.

[am. B.C. Reg. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 5 (g).]






Order to produce document



(14)

The court may order the production of a document for inspection and
copying by any party or by the court at a time and place and in the
manner it considers appropriate.







Documents not in possession of party



(15)

If a document is in the possession or control of a person who is not a
party, the court, on an application under Part 10 brought on notice to
the person and the parties, may make an order for one or both of the
following:




(a)

production, inspection and copying of the document;




(b)

preparation of a certified copy that may be used instead of the
original.







Order by consent



(16)

An order under subrule (15) may be made by consent if that order is
endorsed with an acknowledgment by the person in possession or control
of the document that the person has no objection to the terms of the
proposed order.







Inspection of document by court



(17)

If, on an application for production of a document, production is
objected to on the grounds of privilege, the court may inspect the
document for the purpose of deciding the validity of the objection.







Party may not use document



(18)

Unless the court otherwise orders, if a party fails to make discovery
of or produce for inspection or copying a document as required by this
rule, the party may not put the document in evidence in the family law
case or use it for the purpose of examination or cross-examination.








Determination of issue before discovery




(19)

If the party from whom discovery, inspection or copying of a document
is sought objects to that discovery, inspection or copying, the court
may, if satisfied that for any reason it is desirable that an issue or
question in dispute should be determined before deciding on the right
to discovery, inspection or copying, order that the issue or question
be determined first and reserve the question of discovery, inspection
or copying.




Rule 9-2 — Examinations for Discovery






Examination of parties



(1)

Subject to subrule (2), each party to a family law case must




(a)

make himself or herself available, or




(b)

if any of subrules (5) to (9) apply, make a person referred to in that
subrule available,


for examinations for discovery by the parties to the family law case
who are adverse in interest to the party subject to examination.







Limitations



(2)

Unless the court otherwise orders, the examinations for discovery,
including all examinations under subrules (16), (18) and (20),
conducted under this rule of a party, including any such examinations
conducted of a person referred to in subrule (1) (b) who is examined
in relation to that party, by any other party who is adverse in
interest must not, in total, exceed in duration




(a)

5 hours, or




(b)

any greater period to which the person to be examined consents.







Considerations of the court



(3)

In an application under subrule (2) to extend the examination for
discovery period, the court must consider the following:




(a)

the conduct of a person who has been or is to be examined, including




(i)

the person's unresponsiveness in any examination for discovery held in
the family law case,




(ii)

the person's failure to provide complete answers to questions, or




(iii)

the person's provision of answers that are evasive, irrelevant,
unresponsive or unduly lengthy;




(b)

any denial or refusal to admit, by a person who has been or is to be
examined, anything that should have been admitted;




(c)

the conduct of the examining party;




(d)

whether or not it is reasonably practicable to complete the
examinations for discovery within the period provided under subrule
(2);




(e)

the number of parties and examinations for discovery and the proximity
of the various interests of those parties.







Oral examination on oath



(4)

An examination for discovery is an oral examination on oath.








Examination of party that is not an individual




(5)

Unless the court otherwise orders, if a party to be examined for
discovery is not an individual,




(a)

the examining party may examine one representative of the party to be
examined,




(b)

the party to be examined must nominate as its representative an
individual, who is knowledgeable concerning the matters in question in
the family law case, to be examined on behalf of that party, and




(c)

the examining party may examine




(i)

the representative nominated under paragraph (b), or




(ii)

any other person the examining party considers appropriate and who is
or has been a director, officer, employee, agent or external auditor
of the party to be examined.








Examination of person for whose benefit family law case brought




(6)

Subject to subrule (8), a person for whose immediate benefit a family
law case is brought or defended may be examined for discovery.







Examination of guardian and infants



(7)

Unless the court otherwise orders, if a party to be examined for
discovery is an infant, the infant, his or her guardian and his or her
litigation guardian may be examined for discovery.

[am. B.C. Reg. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 6.]







Examination of mentally incompetent person




(8)

If a party to be examined for discovery is a mentally incompetent
person, his or her litigation guardian and his or her committee may be
examined for discovery, but the mentally incompetent person must not
be examined without leave of the court.







Examination of bankrupt



(9)

If a party to be examined for discovery is a trustee in bankruptcy,
the bankrupt may be examined for discovery.







Place



(10)

Unless the court otherwise orders or the parties to the examination
for discovery otherwise agree, an examination for discovery must take
place at a location within 30 kilometres of the registry that is
nearest to the place where the person to be examined resides.







Examination before reporter



(11)

An examination for discovery must be conducted before an official
reporter who is empowered to administer the oath.







Service of notice



(12)

Before conducting an examination for discovery under this rule, the
party wishing to conduct that examination for discovery must do the
following:




(a)

if the person to be examined is a party to, and has a lawyer in, the
family law case, ensure that, at least 7 days before the examination
for discovery,




(i)

an appointment in Form F21 is served on that lawyer, and




(ii)

witness fees in the amount required under Schedule 3 of Appendix C are
tendered to that lawyer;




(b)

in any other case, ensure that, at least 7 days before the examination
for discovery,




(i)

an appointment in Form F21 is served on the person to be examined, and




(ii)

witness fees in the amount required under Schedule 3 of Appendix C are
tendered to the person to be examined;




(c)

at least 7 days before the examination for discovery, serve a copy of
the appointment on all parties.

[am. B.C. Reg. 112/2012, Sch. B, s. 1.]






Person must attend examination



(13)

A person to be examined for discovery must attend and submit to
examination for discovery if the party wishing to conduct that
examination for discovery has complied with subrule (12) (a) or (b),
as the case may be.







Fees must not be attached



(14)

If a lawyer receives witness fees under subrule (12) (a), those fees
must not be attached.







Production of documents



(15)

Unless the court otherwise orders, if the person to be examined for
discovery is a person referred to in subrule (6), (7), (8) or (9), the
person must produce for inspection on the examination for discovery
all documents in his or her possession or control, not privileged,
relating to the matters in question in the family law case.







Examination and re-examination



(16)

The examination for discovery of a person is in the nature of a
cross-examination, and the person examined for discovery may be
re-examined on his or her own behalf or on behalf of a party not
adverse in interest to him or her in relation to any matter respecting
which he or she has been examined.







Scope of examination



(17)

Unless the court otherwise orders, a person being examined for
discovery




(a)

must answer any question within his or her knowledge or means of
knowledge regarding any matter, not privileged, relating to a matter
in question in the family law case, and




(b)

is compellable to give the names and addresses of all persons who
reasonably might be expected to have knowledge relating to any matter
in question in the family law case.







Person must inform self



(18)

In order to comply with subrule (17), a person being examined for
discovery may be required to inform himself or herself and the
examination may be adjourned for that purpose.







Response may be provided by letter



(19)

If a person is required to inform himself or herself under subrule
(18) in order to respond to one or more questions posed on the
examination for discovery, the examining party may request the person
to provide the responses by letter.







If letter provided



(20)

If the examining party receives a letter under subrule (19),




(a)

the questions set out in the letter and the answers given in response
to those questions are deemed for all purposes to be questions asked
and answers given under oath in the examination for discovery, and




(b)

the examining party may, subject to subrule (2), continue the
examination for discovery.







Objections



(21)

If a person under examination objects to answering a question put to
him or her, the question and the objection must be taken down by the
official reporter and the court may




(a)

decide the validity of the objection, and




(b)

order the person to submit to further examination and set a maximum
duration for that further examination.







How recorded



(22)

An examination for discovery is to be taken down in the form of
question and answer, and copies of the transcript may be obtained on
payment of the proper fee by




(a)

any party,




(b)

the person examined, or




(c)

any other person as the court for special reason may permit.








Application to persons outside British Columbia




(23)

So far as is practicable, this rule applies to a person residing
outside British Columbia, and the court, on application on notice to
the person, may order the examination for discovery of the person at a
place and in the manner the court considers appropriate.







Service of order and notice



(24)

Unless the court otherwise orders, if an order is made under subrule
(23) for the examination for discovery of a person,




(a)

the order and the notice of appointment may be served on, and




(b)

the witness fees referred to in subrule (12) may be paid to

the lawyer for the person.



Rule 9-3 — Discovery by Interrogatories







Party may serve interrogatories by consent or with leave




(1)

A party to a family law case may serve interrogatories in Form F22 on
any other party, or on a director, officer, partner, agent, employee
or external auditor of a party, if




(a)

the party to be examined consents, or




(b)

the court grants leave.







If a party is a body of persons



(2)

If a party to a family law case is a body of persons, corporate or
unincorporate, that is empowered to sue or to be sued in its own name
or in the name of an officer or other person, another party may, with
leave of the court granted at an application, serve interrogatories on
the officer or member of the body specified in the order.







Powers of court



(3)

In an order granting leave under subrule (1) (b) or (2), the court may
set terms and conditions on the interrogatories, including terms and
conditions respecting




(a)

the number or length of the interrogatories,




(b)

the matters the interrogatories are to cover,




(c)

the timing of any response to the interrogatories, and




(d)

the notification, if any, to be given to the other parties respecting
the interrogatories.







Timing of answer to interrogatories



(4)

A person to whom interrogatories are directed must, within 21 days or
such other period as the court may order under subrule (3), serve an
answer on affidavit to the interrogatories.








If more than one person to answer interrogatories




(5)

If interrogatories are required to be answered by more than one
officer, director, partner, agent or employee of a party, the
interrogatories must state which of the interrogatories each person is
required to answer.







Objection to answer interrogatory



(6)

If a person objects to answering an interrogatory on the grounds of
privilege or on the grounds that it does not relate to a matter in
question in the family law case, the person may make the objection in
an affidavit in answer.







Insufficient answer to interrogatory



(7)

If a person to whom interrogatories have been directed answers any of
them insufficiently, the court may require the person to make a
further answer either by affidavit or on oral examination.








Application to strike out interrogatory




(8)

If a party objects to an interrogatory on the grounds that it will not
further the object of these Supreme Court Family Rules,




(a)

the party may apply to the court to strike out the interrogatory, and




(b)

the court must take into account any offer by the party to make
admissions, to produce documents or to give oral discovery.







Service of interrogatories on lawyer



(9)

A party may, instead of serving interrogatories under subrule (1) or
(2), serve the interrogatories on the lawyer of the person to whom the
interrogatories are directed.







Lawyer must inform



(10)

If a lawyer receives interrogatories under subrule (9), the lawyer
must promptly inform the person to whom the interrogatories are
directed.







Continuing obligation to answer



(11)

If a person who has given an answer to an interrogatory later learns
that the answer is inaccurate or incomplete, the person must promptly
serve on the party who served the interrogatory an affidavit deposing
to an accurate or complete answer.




Rule 9-4 — Pre-Trial Examination of Witness






Order for examination



(1)

If a person who is not a party to a family law case may have material
evidence relating to a matter in question in the family law case, the
court may




(a)

order that the person be examined on oath on the matters in question
in the family law case, and




(b)

either before or after the examination, order that the examining party
pay reasonable lawyer's costs of the person relating to the
application and the examination.







Expert



(2)

An expert retained or specially employed by another party in
anticipation of litigation or preparation for trial may not be
examined under this rule unless the party seeking the examination is
unable to obtain facts and opinions on the same subject by other
means.







Affidavit in support of application



(3)

An application for an order under subrule (1) must be supported by
affidavit setting out




(a)

the matter in question in the family law case to which the applicant
believes that the evidence of the proposed witness may be material,




(b)

if the proposed witness is an expert retained or specially employed by
another party in anticipation of litigation or preparation for trial,
that the applicant is unable to obtain facts and opinions on the same
subject by other means, and




(c)

that the proposed witness




(i)

has refused or neglected on request by the applicant to give a
responsive statement, either orally or in writing, relating to the
witness' knowledge of the matters in question, or




(ii)

has given conflicting statements.







Application procedure



(4)

An applicant for an order under subrule (1) must comply with Part 10
and, without limiting this, the applicant must serve the application
materials on the proposed witness and Part 10 applies to the witness
as if he or she were a party.







Subpoena



(5)

If the court makes an order under subrule (1) entitling a party to
examine a person under this rule, the party may, by serving on the
person to be examined a subpoena in Form F23, require the person to
bring to the examination




(a)

any document in the person's possession or control relating to the
matters in question in the family law case, and




(b)

any physical object in the person's possession or control that the
party contemplates introducing at the trial as an exhibit.








Identification of documents and objects




(6)

A subpoena referred to in subrule (5)




(a)

need not identify any document referred to in subrule (5) (a), and




(b)

must identify any object referred to in subrule (5) (b).







Notice of examination



(7)

The examining party must give notice of an examination under this rule
by serving copies of the subpoena referred to in subrule (5) on all
parties at least 7 days before the date appointed for the examination.







Mode of examination



(8)

The proposed witness must be cross-examined by the party who obtained
the order, then may be cross-examined by any other party, and then may
be further cross-examined by the party who obtained the order.







Time for examination



(9)

Unless the court otherwise orders, examinations conducted of a person
under this rule by all parties must not, in total, exceed 3 hours in
duration.








Application of examination for discovery rules




(10)

Rule 9-2 (11), (15), (17), (18) and (21) to (24) applies to an
examination under this rule.




Rule 9-5 — Physical Examination and Inspection






Order for medical examination



(1)

If the physical or mental condition of a person is in issue in a
family law case, the court may order that the person submit to
examination by a medical practitioner or other qualified person, and
if the court makes an order under this subrule, the court may also
make




(a)

an order respecting any expenses connected with the examination, and




(b)

an order that the result of the examination be put in writing and that
copies be made available to interested parties.







Subsequent examinations



(2)

The court may order a further examination under this rule.







Questions by examiner



(3)

A person who is making an examination under this rule may ask any
relevant question concerning the medical condition or history of the
person being examined.








Order for inspection and preservation of property




(4)

If the court considers it necessary or expedient for the purpose of
obtaining full information or evidence, it may




(a)

order the production, inspection and preservation of any property, and




(b)

authorize




(i)

samples to be taken or observations to be made of the property, or




(ii)

experiments to be conducted on or with the property.







Entry on land or building



(5)

For the purpose of enabling an order under this rule to be carried
out, the court may authorize a person to enter on any land or
building.








Application to persons outside British Columbia




(6)

Rule 9-2 (23) and (24) applies to examinations and inspections ordered
under this rule.




Rule 9-6 — Admissions






Notice to admit



(1)

In a family law case in which a response to family claim has been
filed, a party may, by service of a notice to admit in Form F24,
request any party to admit, for the purposes of the family law case
only, the truth of a fact or the authenticity of a document specified
in the notice.







Effect of notice to admit



(2)

Unless the court otherwise orders, the truth of a fact or the
authenticity of a document specified in a notice to admit is deemed to
be admitted, for the purposes of the family law case only, unless,
within 14 days after service of the notice to admit, the party
receiving the notice to admit serves on the party serving the notice
to admit a written statement that




(a)

specifically denies the truth of the fact or the authenticity of the
document,




(b)

sets out in detail the reasons why the party cannot make the
admission, or




(c)

states that the refusal to admit the truth of the fact or the
authenticity of the document is made on the grounds of privilege or
irrelevancy or that the request is otherwise improper, and sets out in
detail the reasons for the refusal.







Copy of document to be attached



(3)

Unless the court otherwise orders or the demanding party and the
responding party consent, a copy of a document specified in a notice
to admit must be attached to the notice to admit when it is served.







Unreasonable refusal to admit



(4)

If a responding party unreasonably denies or refuses to admit the
truth of a fact or the authenticity of a document specified in a
notice to admit, the court may order the party to pay the costs of
proving the truth of the fact or the authenticity of the document and
may award as a penalty additional costs, or deprive a party of costs,
as the court considers appropriate.







Withdrawal of admission



(5)

A party is not entitled to withdraw




(a)

an admission made in response to a notice to admit,




(b)

a deemed admission under subrule (2), or




(c)

an admission made in a pleading, petition or response to petition


except by consent or with leave of the court.







Application for order on admissions



(6)

An application for judgment or any other application may be made to
the court using as evidence




(a)

admissions of the truth of a fact or the authenticity of a document
made




(i)

in an affidavit or pleading filed by a party,




(ii)

in an examination for discovery of a party or a person examined for
discovery on behalf of a party, or




(iii)

in response to a notice to admit, or




(b)

admissions of the truth of a fact or the authenticity of a document
deemed to be made under subrule (2)


and the court, without waiting for the determination of any other
question between the parties, may make any order it considers will
further the object of these Supreme Court Family Rules.




Rule 9-7 — Depositions






Examination of person



(1)

By consent of the parties or by order of the court, a person may be
examined on oath before or during trial in order that the record of
the examination may be available to be introduced as evidence at the
trial.







Examination of person



(2)

An examination under subrule (1) may be conducted before an official
reporter or any other person as the court may direct.







Grounds for order



(3)

In determining whether to exercise its discretion to order an
examination under subrule (1), the court must take into account




(a)

the convenience of the person sought to be examined,




(b)

the possibility that the person may be unavailable to testify at the
trial by reason of death, infirmity, sickness or absence,




(c)

the possibility that the person will be beyond the jurisdiction of the
court at the time of the trial,




(d)

the possibility and desirability of having the person testify at trial
by video conferencing or other electronic means, and




(e)

the expense of bringing the person to the trial.







Time limits



(4)

In an order under subrule (1), the court may impose limits on the
duration of the direct examination or cross-examination of a person
under this rule.







Subpoena



(5)

If the court makes an order under subrule (1) entitling a party to
examine a person under this rule, the party may, by serving on the
person to be examined a subpoena in Form F23, require the person to
bring to the examination,




(a)

if the person to be examined is not a party or a representative of a
party, any document in the person's possession or control relating to
the matters in question in the family law case, and




(b)

any physical object in the person's possession or control that the
examining party contemplates introducing at the trial as an exhibit.








Identification of documents and objects




(6)

A subpoena referred to in subrule (5)




(a)

need not identify any document referred to in subrule (5) (a), and




(b)

must identify any object referred to in subrule (5) (b).







Place of examination



(7)

Unless the court otherwise orders or the parties to the examination
consent, an examination under this rule must take place at a location
within 30 kilometres of the registry that is nearest to the place
where the person to be examined resides.








Application of rule outside British Columbia




(8)

So far as is practicable, this rule applies to the examination of a
person residing outside British Columbia, and the court may order the
examination of a person in the place and the manner the court
considers appropriate.







If person willing to testify



(9)

If the person whose examination is ordered under subrule (8) is
willing to testify, the order under subrule (8) must be in Form F25
and the instructions to the examiner appointed in the order must be in
Form F26.







If person not willing to testify



(10)

If the person whose examination is ordered under subrule (8) is
unwilling to testify, or if for any other reason the assistance of a
foreign court is necessary, the order under subrule (8) must be in
Form F27 and the letter of request referred to in the order must be in
Form F28.







Letter of request



(11)

If an order referred to in subrule (10) is made, the letter of request
must be sent by the party obtaining the order to the Under Secretary
of State for External Affairs of Canada (or, if the evidence is to be
taken in Canada, to the Deputy Attorney General for the Province of
British Columbia), and must have attached to it




(a)

any interrogatories to be put to the witness,




(b)

a list of the names, addresses and telephone numbers of the lawyers or
agents of the parties, both in British Columbia and in the other
jurisdiction, and




(c)

a copy of the letter of request and any interrogatories




(i)

translated into the appropriate official language of the jurisdiction
where the examination is to take place, and




(ii)

bearing the certificate of the translator that it is a true
translation and giving the translator's full name and address.







Filing of undertaking



(12)

The lawyer for the party obtaining the order referred to in subrule
(10) must file with the Under Secretary of State for External Affairs
of Canada (or the Deputy Attorney General for the Province of British
Columbia, as the case may be) the lawyer's undertaking to be
personally responsible for all the charges and expenses incurred by
the Under Secretary (or the Deputy Attorney General, as the case may
be) in respect of the letter of request and to pay those charges and
expenses on receiving notification of the amount.







Notice of examination



(13)

The examining party must give notice of an examination under this rule
by serving copies of the subpoena referred to in subrule (5) on all
parties at least 7 days before the date appointed for the examination.







Mode of examination



(14)

The examining party must conduct a direct examination of the witness
and the witness is subject to cross-examination and re-examination.







Objection to question



(15)

If an objection is made to a question put to a witness in an
examination under this rule,




(a)

the question and the objection must be taken down by the official
reporter,




(b)

the validity of the objection may, on application, be decided by the
court, and




(c)

the court may, on an application referred to in paragraph (b), order
the witness to submit to further examination.







Recording of deposition evidence



(16)

Unless otherwise ordered, an examination under this rule must be
recorded by the person authorized under subrule (2) to conduct the
examination




(a)

in the form of questions and answers, or




(b)

on a video recording.







Preserving testimony



(17)

If a person alleges that




(a)

circumstances exist that entitle the person to receive an estate or
interest in property on the happening of a future event, and




(b)

the right or claim to that estate or interest cannot be brought to
trial or hearing by the person before the happening of the event,


the person may apply by petition or by requisition in Form F29 for an
order to preserve, by examination under this rule, any testimony that
may be material for establishing the right or claim.




Part 10 — Obtaining Orders Other Than at Trial



Division 1 — Procedure and Affidavits



Rule 10-1 — Choosing the Appropriate Procedure






Application procedure



(1)

Subject to subrules (2) and (3), to obtain an order under this Part, a
party must apply in accordance with Rule 10-5.

[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 12.]







Applications for final orders in undefended family law cases




(2)

To obtain a final order in an undefended family law case, a party must
apply in accordance with Rule 10-10.








Applications for final orders in defended family law cases




(3)

To obtain a final order in a defended family law case, a party must
apply in accordance with Rule 10-11.




Rule 10-2 — Place Application Is Heard






Place of hearing of application



(1)

An application may be heard at




(a)

the place ordered by a registrar under subrule (4),




(b)

if an order is not made under subrule (4), the place on which all
parties have agreed, or




(c)

if paragraphs (a) and (b) do not apply, a place at which the court
normally sits in the judicial district in which the family law case is
being conducted.







If more than one place



(2)

If there is more than one place within the judicial district referred
to in subrule (1) (c) at which the court normally sits, the applicant
may name, as the place for hearing, any of those places.








If place of hearing is a place other than that at which the family
law case is being conducted




(3)

If, under subrule (2), the applicant names as the place for hearing a
place that is different than the place at which the family law case is
being conducted, the court may, if the court considers that it was
unreasonable to have that named place as the place of hearing, make a
special order as to costs and may




(a)

order that the application be heard at some other place,




(b)

dismiss the application, or




(c)

hear the application.








Place of hearing of application with leave of registrar




(4)

If a registrar is satisfied that, due to urgency or the convenience of
the parties, an application should be heard at a place outside the
judicial district in which the family law case is being conducted, the
registrar may, without notice, grant leave for the applicant to do
either or both of the following:




(a)

file the notice of application in some other judicial district;




(b)

name as the place of hearing a place in that other judicial district.



[If an order is sought under section 10 of the Family Orders and
Agreements Enforcement Assistance Act (Canada), the affidavit
referred to in Rule 15-2.3 (1) must be provided to the court with
the other application materials.]









Notice of application must be endorsed to reflect grant of leave




(5)

If a registrar grants leave under subrule (4), he or she must endorse
the notice of application accordingly.








If place of hearing is a place chosen with leave of registrar




(6)

If, in respect of an application for which leave was granted under
subrule (4), the court at the hearing of the application considers
that the application should not be heard at that place, the court may
make a special order as to costs and may




(a)

order that the application be heard at some other place,




(b)

dismiss the application, or




(c)

hear the application.







Repealed



(7)-(8)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 7.]




Rule 10-3 — Chambers Proceedings






Definition



(1)

In this rule,
"chambers proceeding"
includes the following:




(a)

a petition proceeding;




(b)

an application, including, without limitation, the following:




(i)

an application to change or set aside a judgment;




(ii)

a matter that is ordered to be disposed of other than at trial;




(c)

an appeal from, or an application to confirm, change or set aside, an
order, a report, a certificate or a recommendation of an associate
judge, registrar, special referee or other officer of the court;




(d)

a family law case that has, or issues in a family law case that have,
been ordered to be proceeded with by affidavit or on documents before
the court;




(e)

an application for judgment under Rule 9-6 (6) or 11-3.

[am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3, s. 1.]






Failure of party to attend



(2)

If a party to a chambers proceeding fails to attend at the hearing of
the chambers proceeding, the court may proceed if, considering the
nature of the chambers proceeding, it considers it will further the
object of these Supreme Court Family Rules to do so, and may require
evidence of service it considers appropriate.







Reconsideration of order



(3)

If the court makes an order in circumstances referred to in subrule
(2), the order must not be reconsidered unless the court is satisfied
that the person failing to attend was not guilty of wilful delay or
default.







Evidence on an application



(4)

On a chambers proceeding, evidence must be given by affidavit, but the
court may




(a)

order the attendance for cross-examination of the person who swore or
affirmed the affidavit, either before the court or before another
person as the court directs,




(b)

order the examination of a party or witness, either before the court
or before another person as the court directs,




(c)

give directions required for the discovery, inspection or production
of a document or copy of that document,




(d)

order an inquiry, assessment or accounting under Rule 18-1, and




(e)

receive other forms of evidence.



[Subrule (4) (a) applies to all affidavits, including Form F8
financial statements.]




[If an order is sought to appoint a person as the guardian of one or
more children, the affidavit referred to in Rule 15-2.1 must be
provided to the court with the other application materials.]


[am. B.C. Reg. 41/2013, s. 1.]






Hearing of application in public



(5)

Except in cases of urgency, a chambers proceeding must be heard in a
place open to the public, unless the court, in the case of a
particular chambers proceeding, directs that for special reasons the
chambers proceeding ought to be dealt with in private.








Adjournment of application if applications not heard on date set




(6)

If a chambers proceeding has been set for hearing on a day on which
the court does not hear chambers proceedings, the chambers proceeding
stands adjourned without order to the next day on which the court
hears chambers proceedings.







Power of the court



(7)

Without limiting subrule (4), on the hearing of a chambers proceeding,
the court may




(a)

grant or refuse the relief claimed in whole or in part, or dispose of
any question arising on the chambers proceeding,




(b)

adjourn the chambers proceeding from time to time, either to a
particular date or generally, and when the chambers proceeding is
adjourned generally a party may set it down on 3 days' notice for
further hearing,




(c)

obtain the assistance of one or more experts, in which case Rule 13-5
applies, and




(d)

order a trial of the chambers proceeding, either generally or on an
issue, and order a pleading to be filed and, in that event, give
directions for the conduct of the trial and of pre-trial proceedings
and for the disposition of the chambers proceeding.







Powers of court if notice not given



(8)

If it appears to the court that notice of a chambers proceeding ought
to have been but was not served on a person, the court may




(a)

dismiss the chambers proceeding or dismiss it only against that
person,




(b)

adjourn the chambers proceeding and direct that service be effected on
that person or that notice be given in some alternate manner to that
person, or




(c)

direct that any order made, together with any other documents the
court may order, be served on that person.







Urgent chambers proceeding



(9)

Rules 10-8 and 10-9 apply to chambers proceedings.







Adjournment



(10)

The hearing of a chambers proceeding may be adjourned from time to
time by a registrar.







Notes of applications



(11)

A registrar must




(a)

attend at and keep notes of the hearings of all chambers proceedings,
and




(b)

include, in the notes kept under paragraph (a) in relation to the
hearing of a chambers proceeding, a short statement of the questions
or points decided or orders made at the hearing.




Rule 10-4 — Affidavits






Affidavit to be filed



(1)

An affidavit used in a family law case must be filed.







Form and content of affidavit



(2)

An affidavit




(a)

must be expressed in the first person and show the name, address and
occupation of the person swearing or affirming the affidavit,




(b)

if the person swearing or affirming the affidavit is a party or the
lawyer, agent, director, officer or employee of a party, must state
that fact,




(c)

must be divided into paragraphs numbered consecutively, and




(d)

subject to Rule 15-2.1, may be in Form F30.



[If an order is sought to appoint a person as the guardian of one or
more children, the affidavit referred to in Rule 15-2.1 must be
provided to the court.]


[am. B.C. Reg. 41/2013, s. 2.]






Identifying affidavits



(3)

An affidavit, other than an affidavit of service, must set out, in the
top right hand corner of the first page,




(a)

the name of the person swearing or affirming the affidavit,




(b)

the sequential number of the affidavit made by that person in the same
family law case, and




(c)

the date on which the affidavit was made.







Making affidavit



(4)

An affidavit is made when




(a)

the affidavit is sworn or affirmed by the person swearing or affirming
the affidavit,




(b)

the person swearing or affirming the affidavit




(i)

signs the affidavit, or




(ii)

if the person swearing or affirming the affidavit is unable to sign
the affidavit, places his or her mark on it, and




(c)

the person before whom the affidavit is sworn or affirmed completes
and signs a statement in accordance with subrule (5) and identifies
each exhibit, if any, to the affidavit in accordance with subrule (8).







Statement to be signed



(5)

The person before whom an affidavit is sworn or affirmed must confirm
that the affidavit was sworn or affirmed in the person's presence by
completing and signing a statement on the affidavit in the following
form:

Sworn (or affirmed) before me at ........................, British
Columbia on ......... [
dd/mmm/yyyy
]...........








Statement if person swearing or affirming the affidavit unable to
read




(6)

If it appears to the person before whom an affidavit is sworn or
affirmed that the person swearing or affirming the affidavit is unable
to read it, the person before whom it is sworn or affirmed must
certify in the statement signed under subrule (5) that the affidavit
was read in his or her presence to the person swearing or affirming
the affidavit who seemed to understand it.








Interpretation to person swearing or affirming the affidavit who
does not understand English




(7)

If it appears to the person before whom an affidavit is to be sworn or
affirmed that the person swearing or affirming the affidavit does not
understand the English language, the affidavit must be interpreted to
the person swearing or affirming the affidavit by a competent
interpreter who must certify on the affidavit, by endorsement in Form
F30, that he or she has interpreted the affidavit to the person
swearing or affirming the affidavit.







Exhibit to be marked



(8)

The person before whom an affidavit is sworn or affirmed must identify
each exhibit referred to in the affidavit by signing a certificate
placed on the exhibit in the following form:



This is Exhibit .......... referred to in the affidavit of
.............................. sworn (or affirmed) before me on
........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].........







Exhibits referred to in affidavits



(9)

The following applies to an exhibit referred to in an affidavit:




(a)

if the exhibit is a document that complies with Rule 21-1 (2) and does
not exceed 10 pages, a true reproduction of the document must be
attached to the affidavit and to all copies of the affidavit that are
served;




(b)

if the exhibit is a document that complies with Rule 21-1 (2) and
exceeds 10 pages, the exhibit need not be filed with the affidavit,
but must be made available for the use of the court and for the prior
inspection of a party to the proceeding;




(c)

if the exhibit is not a document that complies with Rule 21-1 (2), the
exhibit must not be filed with the affidavit, but must be made
available for the use of the court and for the prior inspection of a
party to the proceeding.

[en. B.C. Reg. 321/2021, Sch. 2, s. 4.]






Numbering exhibit pages



(10)

Each page of the documentary exhibits referred to in an affidavit,
other than an affidavit of service, must be numbered sequentially,
beginning with the first page of the first exhibit and ending with the
last page of the last exhibit,




(a)

on the original exhibits and on all copies that are served, and




(b)

even though one or more of those exhibits is not attached to the
affidavit.







Alterations to be initialled



(11)

The person before whom an affidavit is sworn or affirmed must initial
all alterations in the affidavit and, unless so initialled, the
affidavit must not be used in a family law case without leave of the
court.







Limitation on contents of affidavit



(12)

Subject to subrule (13), an affidavit must state only what a person
swearing or affirming the affidavit would be permitted to state in
evidence at a trial.







Exception



(13)

An affidavit may contain statements as to the information and belief
of the person swearing or affirming the affidavit, if




(a)

the source of the information and belief is given, and




(b)

the affidavit is made




(i)

in respect of an application that does not seek a final order or a
change in, or a suspension or termination of, a final order, or




(ii)

by leave of the court under Rule 10-3 (4) (e) or 14-7 (71) (a).

[am. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 13.]






Use of defective affidavit



(14)

With leave of the court, an affidavit may be used in evidence despite
an irregularity in its form.








Affidavit made before proceeding started




(15)

An affidavit may be used in a family law case even though it was made
before the family law case was started.








Affidavit of patient under the
Patients Property Act




(16)

If an affidavit is required for use in a family law case and the
person who is proposed to swear or affirm the affidavit is a patient
as defined in the

Patients Property Act

, the affidavit may be sworn, on information and belief, by the
litigation guardian of the patient.




Division 2 — Usual Application Procedure



Rule 10-5 — Application Procedure






How applications are to be brought



(1)

To apply for an order referred to in subrule (2), a party must do the
following, and to apply for an order to enforce an agreement filed
under Rule 2-1 (2), to enforce an order, to enforce compliance with a
determination of a parenting coordinator filed under Rule 2-1.1 (1) or
to enforce an arbitration award filed under Rule 2-1.2 (1), a party
may do the following:




(a)

in the case of an application not referred to in paragraph (b), (c),
(d) or (e) of this subrule, apply in accordance with Rule 10-6;




(b)

in the case of an application for an order by consent, apply in
accordance with Rule 10-6 or 10-7;




(c)

in the case of an application of which notice need not be given, apply
in accordance with Rule 10-6 or 10-8;




(d)

in the case of an urgent application, apply in accordance with Rule
10-9;




(e)

in the case of an application for which a procedure is provided for by
these Supreme Court Family Rules, apply in accordance with that
procedure.


[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 15; am. B.C. Reg. 121/2014, s. 5 (a).]







Applications brought under this Part



(2)

Subrule (1) applies to applications for the following orders:




(a)

an interim order;




(b)

to change, suspend or terminate a final order;




(c)

to set aside or replace the whole or any part of an agreement filed
under Rule 2-1;




(d)

to change or set aside a determination of a parenting coordinator
filed under Rule 2-1.1;




(e)

to change, suspend or terminate an arbitration award.


[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 15; am. B.C. Reg. 121/2014, s. 5 (b).]




Rule 10-6 — Usual Application Procedure






Definition



(1)

In this rule,
"application respondent"
means a person who files an application response under
subrule (8).

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 8.]






Notice of application



(2)

A party wishing to apply under this rule must file




(a)

a notice of application, and




(b)

subject to Rule 15-2.1, the original of every affidavit, and of every
other document, that




(i)

is to be referred to by the applicant at the hearing, and




(ii)

has not already been filed in the family law case.



[If an order is sought to appoint a person as the guardian of one or
more children, the affidavit referred to in Rule 15-2.1 must be
provided to the court with the other application materials.]


[am. B.C. Reg. 41/2013, s. 3.]






Contents of notice of application



(3)

A notice of application must be in Form F31 and must




(a)

set out the orders sought or attach a draft of the order sought,




(b)

briefly summarize the factual basis for the application,




(c)

set out the rule, enactment or other jurisdictional authority relied
on for the orders sought and any other legal arguments on which the
orders sought should be granted,




(d)

list the affidavits and other documents on which the applicant intends
to rely at the hearing of the application,




(e)

set out the applicant's estimate of the time the application will take
for hearing,




(f)

subject to subrules (4) and (5), set out the date and time of the
hearing of the application,




(g)

set out the place for the hearing of the application in accordance
with Rule 10-2, and




(h)

provide the data collection information required in the appendix to
the form,


and the notice of application, other than any draft order attached to
it under paragraph (a), must not exceed 10 pages in length.

[en. B.C. Reg. 241/2010, Sch. B, s. 1 (b).]






Date and time of hearing



(4)

Subject to subrule (5), the hearing of an application must be set for
9:45 a.m. on a date on which the court hears applications or at such
other time or date as has been fixed by the court or a registrar.








Date and time if hearing time more than 2 hours




(5)

If the applicant's estimate referred to in subrule (3) (e) is more
than 2 hours, the date and time of hearing must be fixed by a
registrar.

[am. B.C. Reg. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 8 (a).]






Service of application materials



(6)

The applicant must serve the following, in accordance with subrule
(7), on each of the parties and on every other person, other than a
person named as a party, who may be affected by the orders sought:




(a)

a copy of the filed notice of application;




(b)

a copy of the filed version of each of the affidavits and documents,
referred to in the notice of application under subrule (3) (d), that
has not already been served on that person;




(c)

in addition to the documents referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b), if
the application is brought under Rule 11-3, any notice that the
applicant is required to give under Rule 11-3 (9);




(d)

in addition to the documents referred to in paragraphs (a) to (c), if
the application is in relation to an agreement filed in, or to start,
a family law case, a copy of the filed agreement;




(e)

in addition to the documents referred to in paragraphs (a) to (d), if
the application is in relation to a determination of a parenting
coordinator filed under Rule 2-1.1 (1),




(i)

a copy of the filed determination, and




(ii)

if the parenting coordinator was engaged under an agreement filed
under Rule 2-1 (2), a copy of the filed agreement;




(f)

in addition to the documents referred to in paragraphs (a), (b) and
(d), if the application is in relation to an arbitration award filed
in, or to start, a family law case, a copy of the filed arbitration
award.


[am. B.C. Regs. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 8 (b); 133/2012, s. 16 (a) and
(b); 121/2014, s. 6 (a) and (b).]







Service requirements



(7)

The documents referred to in subrule (6) of this rule must be served
as follows:




(a)

subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) of this subrule, the documents must
be served at least 8 business days before the date set for the hearing
of the application;




(b)

in the case of an application under Rule 11-3, the documents must be
served at least 12 business days before the date set for the hearing
of the application;




(c)

in the case of an application to change, suspend or terminate a final
order or to set aside or replace the whole or any part of an agreement
filed under Rule 2-1 (2),




(i)

the documents must be served by personal service in accordance with
Rule 6-3 (2), and




(ii)

service under subparagraph (i) of this paragraph must occur at least
21 business days before the date set for the hearing of the
application;




(d)

in the case of an application to change or set aside a determination
of a parenting coordinator filed under Rule 2-1.1 (1) or to change,
suspend or terminate an arbitration award filed under Rule 2-1.2 (1),
the documents must be served by personal service in accordance with
Rule 6-3 (2) and paragraph (a) of this subrule.


[am. B.C. Regs. 241/2010, Sch. B, s. 1 (c) to (e); 133/2012, s. 16 (c)
and (d); 121/2014, s. 6 (c).]







Application response



(8)

A person who is served with documents referred to in subrule (6) of
this rule and who wishes to respond to the notice of application (in
this subrule called the "responding person") must do the following
within the applicable period referred to in subrule (8.1):




(a)

file an application response that complies with subrule (9) and, if
applicable, subrule (10);




(b)

file the original of every affidavit, and of every other document,
that




(i)

is to be referred to by the responding person at the hearing, and




(ii)

has not already been filed in the family law case;




(c)

serve on the applicant 2 copies of the following, and on every other
party one copy of the following:




(i)

a copy of the filed application response;




(ii)

a copy of each of the filed affidavits and documents, referred to in
the application response under subrule (9) (b) (ii), that has not
already been served on that person;




(iii)

if the application is brought under Rule 11-3, any notice that the
application respondent is required to give under Rule 11-3 (9).

[en. B.C. Reg. 241/2010, Sch. B, s. 1 (f).]






Time for filing and service



(8.1)

The responding person must file the documents referred to in subrule
(8) (a) and (b) and serve the documents referred to in subrule (8) (c)
within whichever of the following periods applies to the application:




(a)

subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) of this subrule, within 5 business
days after service of the documents referred to in subrule (6);




(b)

in the case of an application under Rule 11-3, within 8 business days
after service of the documents referred to in subrule (6) of this
rule;




(c)

in the case of an application to change, suspend or terminate a final
order, to set aside or replace the whole or any part of an agreement
filed under Rule 2-1 (2) or to change, suspend or terminate an
arbitration award filed under Rule 2-1.2 (1), within 14 business days
after service of the documents referred to in subrule (6).


[en. B.C. Reg. 241/2010, Sch. B, s. 1 (f); am. B.C. Regs. 133/2012, s.
16 (e); 121/2014, s. 6 (d).]







Contents of application response



(9)

An application response must be in Form F32, must not exceed 10 pages
in length and must




(a)

indicate, for each order sought on the application, whether the
application respondent consents to, opposes or takes no position on
the order, and




(b)

if the application respondent wishes to oppose any of the relief
sought in the application,




(i)

briefly summarize the factual and legal bases on which the orders
sought should not be granted,




(ii)

list the affidavits and other documents to which the application
respondent intends to refer at the hearing of the application, and




(iii)

set out the application respondent's estimate of the time the
application will take for hearing.

[am. B.C. Reg. 241/2010, Sch. B, s. 1 (g).]






Address for service



(10)

An application respondent who has not yet provided an address for
service in the family law case must include an address for service in
any application response filed under subrule (8), and Rule 6-1
applies.







Repealed



(11)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 241/2010, Sch. B, s. 1 (h).]







Applicant may respond



(12)

An applicant who wishes to respond to any document served under
subrule (8) of this rule must file and serve on each application
respondent any responding affidavits no later than 4 p.m. on the
business day that is one full business day before the date set for the
hearing.


[am. B.C. Regs. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 8 (d); 241/2010, Sch. B, s. 1 (i)
and (j).]







No additional affidavits



(13)

Unless all parties consent or the court otherwise orders, a party must
not serve any affidavits additional to those served under subrules
(6), (8) and (12).

[am. B.C. Reg. 241/2010, Sch. B, s. 1 (i).]






Application record



(14)

Subject to subrule (16), the applicant must provide to the registry
where the hearing is to take place an application record as follows:




(a)

the application record must be in a ring binder or in some other form
of secure binding;




(b)

the application record must contain, in consecutively numbered pages,
or separated by tabs, the following documents in the following order:




(i)

a title page bearing the style of proceeding and the names of the
lawyers, if any, for the applicant and the application respondents;




(ii)

an index;




(iii)

a copy of the filed notice of application;




(iv)

a copy of each filed application response;




(v)

a copy of every filed affidavit and pleading, and of every other
document other than a written argument, that is to be relied on at the
hearing;




(vi)

if the application is brought under Rule 11-3, a copy of each filed
pleading;




(vii)

a copy of each filed order that the applicant seeks to vary or rescind
or that is otherwise relevant to the relief sought;




(viii)

the most current Form F102 statement of information for corollary
relief proceedings, if any, filed by each party in accordance with
Rule 15-2.2;




(c)

the application record may contain




(i)

a draft of the proposed order,




(ii)

a written argument,




(iii)

a list of authorities and




(iv)

a draft bill of costs;




(d)

the application record must not contain




(i)

affidavits of service,




(ii)

copies of authorities, including case law, legislation, legal articles
or excerpts from textbooks, or




(iii)

any other documents unless they are included with the consent of all
the parties;




(e)

the application record must be provided to the registry




(i)

no earlier than 9 a.m. on the business day that is three full business
days before the date set for the hearing and no later than 4 p.m.
on the business day that is one full business day before the date set
for the hearing, or




(ii)

if an earlier date is fixed by a registrar, on or before that date.


[am. B.C. Regs. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 8 (e) and (f); 241/2010, Sch. B,
s. 1 (j); 121/2014, s. 6 (e); 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 9.]








Additional copy of filed notice of application




(14.1)

The applicant must, concurrently with the filing of the application
record under subrule (14), provide to the registry a copy of the filed
notice of application that




(a)

is kept separate from the ring binder or other form of secure binding
referred to in subrule (14) (a), and




(b)

clearly indicates the orders sought by way of highlighting or other
marking of the relevant paragraphs of Part 1 of the copy of the filed
notice of application.

[en. B.C. Reg. 239/2023, Sch. 2, s. 2.]







Application to be removed from hearing list




(14.2)

Unless the court otherwise orders, if the applicant fails to provide
an application record to the registry in accordance with subrule (14),
the application must be removed from the hearing list.

[en. B.C. Reg. 239/2023, Sch. 2, s. 2.]







Leave to permit late filing of application record




(14.3)

Despite subrule (14) (e), the applicant may apply for an order
granting leave to provide an application record to the registry after
the period or date referred to in that subrule, as the case may be.

[en. B.C. Reg. 239/2023, Sch. 2, s. 2.]







Applicant may apply to reinstate application to hearing list




(14.4)

If an application has been removed from the hearing list under subrule
(14.2), the applicant may apply for an order that the application be
reinstated to the hearing list.

[en. B.C. Reg. 239/2023, Sch. 2, s. 2.]






Order for costs



(14.5)

If an application respondent attends for the hearing of an application
that has been removed from the hearing list under subrule (14.2), the
application respondent may apply for an order for costs or other
directions.

[en. B.C. Reg. 239/2023, Sch. 2, s. 2.]






Form of application



(14.6)

An application for an order under subrule (14.3), (14.4) or (14.5)
must be made by requisition in Form F32.001.

[en. B.C. Reg. 239/2023, Sch. 2, s. 2.]






Service of application record index



(15)

The applicant must serve a copy of the application record index on
each application respondent no later than 4 p.m. on the business
day that is one full business day before the date set for the hearing.

[am. B.C. Reg. 241/2010, Sch. B, s. 1 (k).]







If application respondent's application is to be heard at the
hearing




(16)

If an application respondent intends to set an application for hearing
at the same time as the applicant's application, those parties must,
so far as is possible, prepare and provide to the registry where the
hearing is to take place a joint application record and agree to a
date for the hearing of both applications.

[am. B.C. Reg. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 8 (g).]






Application record to be returned



(17)

Unless the court otherwise orders, the applicant must retrieve the
application record




(a)

at the conclusion of the hearing, or




(b)

if the hearing of the application is adjourned to a date later than
the following business day, after the hearing is adjourned.


[am. B.C. Regs. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 8 (h); 241/2010, Sch. B, s. 1
(l).]








Application record to be returned to the registry




(18)

If the application record has been retrieved by the applicant under
subrule (17) (b), the applicant must return the application record to
the registry between 9:00 a.m. and 4 p.m. on the business day that is
one full business day before the new date set for the hearing of the
application.


[am. B.C. Regs. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 9; 241/2010, Sch. B, s. 1 (m).]








Provision of amended application record




(19)

If any additional affidavits are filed and served under subrule (12)
and are not included in the application record, the applicant must
provide to the registry an amended application record containing those
affidavits.







Resetting adjourned applications



(19.1)

To reset an application that has been adjourned without a date being
set for it to be heard ("adjourned generally") or that has been
removed from the hearing list under subrule (14.2), the applicant must




(a)

file a requisition in Form F17 setting out the following:




(i)

the date and time of the hearing of the application;




(ii)

the date the notice of application was filed;




(iii)

a brief description of the orders sought;




(iv)

the applicant's estimate of the time the application will take for
hearing;




(v)

whether the orders sought are within the jurisdiction of an associate
judge, and




(b)

serve a copy of the filed requisition on the application respondents
at least 2 business days before the date set for the hearing.


[en. B.C. Reg. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 8 (i); am. B.C. Regs. 241/2010,
Sch. B, s. 1 (n); 239/2023, Sch. 2, s. 3; 277/2023, Sch. 3, s. 1.]








Application respondent may apply for directions




(20)

If, after an application has been adjourned generally, the applicant
does not reset the application for hearing within a reasonable time
after an application respondent has requested the applicant to do so,
an application respondent may apply, by requisition in Form F17 on 2
business days' notice, for directions.


[am. B.C. Regs. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 8 (j); 241/2010, Sch. B, s. 1
(o).]




Rule 10-7 — Consent Applications







How consent applications are to be brought




(1)

To apply for an order referred to in subrule (1.1), a party must file
the following, and to apply for a consent order to enforce an
agreement filed under Rule 2-1 (2), to enforce an order, to enforce
compliance with a determination of a parenting coordinator filed under
Rule 2-1.1 (1) or to enforce an arbitration award filed under Rule
2-1.2 (1), a party may file the following:




(a)

a requisition in Form F29;




(b)

a draft of the proposed order in Form F33;




(c)

evidence, in accordance with Rule 15-1 (11), that the application is
consented to;




(c.1)

if guardianship of one or more children is being sought, an affidavit
in Form F101;




(d)

any consent or comments of the Public Guardian and Trustee required
under section 40 of the

Infants Act

.



[If an order is sought to appoint a person as the guardian of one or
more children, the Form F101 affidavit referred to in Rule 15-2.1
must be provided to the court with the other application materials.]



[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 17; am. B.C. Regs. 41/2013, s. 4;
121/2014, s. 7 (a).]







Consent applications under this Part



(1.1)

Subrule (1) applies to the following consent applications:




(a)

for an interim order;




(b)

to change, suspend or terminate a final order;




(c)

to set aside or replace the whole or any part of an agreement filed
under Rule 2-1;




(d)

to change or set aside a determination of a parenting coordinator
filed under Rule 2-1.1;




(e)

to change, suspend or terminate an arbitration award filed under Rule
2-1.2 (1).


[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 17; am. B.C. Reg. 121/2014, s. 7 (b).]







Consent order



(2)

On being satisfied that an application referred to in subrule (1) of
this rule is consented to and that the materials appropriate for the
application have been filed in accordance with subrule (1), a
registrar may




(a)

refer the application to a judge or, if the order sought is within the
jurisdiction of an associate judge, to a judge or associate judge, or




(b)

if the registrar is satisfied that




(i)

none of the parties applying for or consenting to the order is under a
legal disability, or




(ii)

if a party is under a legal disability, section 40 (7) of the

Infants Act

applies,


enter the order or proceed under paragraph (a) of this subrule.

[am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3, ss. 1 and 5.]






Disposition of referred applications



(3)

If an application is referred by a registrar to a judge or associate
judge under subrule (2), the judge or associate judge may




(a)

make the order, or




(b)

give directions respecting the application.

[am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3, s. 5.



Rule 10-8 — Applications of Which Notice Is Not Required







Application of which notice is not required




(1)

An application of which notice is not required may be made by filing




(a)

a requisition in Form F29,




(b)

a draft of the proposed order in Form F34, and




(c)

subject to Rule 15-2.1, affidavit or other evidence in support of the
application.



[If an order is sought to appoint a person as the guardian of one or
more children, the affidavit referred to in Rule 15-2.1 must be
provided to the court with the other application materials.]



[am. B.C. Regs. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 11 (a); 41/2013, s. 5.]







Repealed



(2)-(3)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 11 (b).]




Rule 10-9 — Urgent Applications


When Applications May Be Heard on Short Notice






Short notice



(1)

Without limiting subrule (6), in case of urgency, a person wishing to
bring an application (in this subrule and in subrules (2) to (5)
called the "main application") on less notice than would normally be
required may make an application (in this subrule and in subrules (2)
to (4) called the "short notice application") for an order that the
main application may be brought on short notice.








How to make a short notice application




(2)

A short notice application may be made by requisition in Form F32.01,
without notice, and in a summary way.

[am. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 10.]







Normal time and notice rules do not apply




(3)

The time limits and notice requirements provided in these Supreme
Court Family Rules do not apply to a short notice application.








Powers of court on short notice application




(4)

On a short notice application, the court or a registrar may




(a)

order that the main application be heard on short notice,




(b)

fix the date and time for the main application to be heard,




(c)

fix the date and time before which service of documents applicable to
the main application must be made, and




(d)

give any other directions that the court or registrar considers will
further the object of these Supreme Court Family Rules.







Effect of short notice order



(5)

If an order is made under subrule (4) that the main application be
heard on short notice, the time limits and notice requirements
provided in these Supreme Court Family Rules do not apply to the main
application.



When Applications May Be Heard Without Any Notice






Orders without notice



(6)

The court may make an order without notice in the case of urgency.







Service of orders required



(7)

Promptly after an order is made without notice by reason of urgency,
the party who obtained the order must serve a copy of the entered
order and the documents filed in support on each person who is
affected by the order.








Setting aside orders made without notice




(8)

On the application of a person affected by an order made without
notice under subrule (6), the court may change or set aside the order.




Division 3 — Procedure for Applications for Final Orders



Rule 10-10 — Final Orders in Undefended Family Law Cases







How to bring applications for judgment in undefended family law case




(1)

To apply for judgment in an undefended family law case, a party must
apply




(a)

by requisition in accordance with subrule (2),




(a.1)

by way of summary trial in accordance with Rule 11-3, or




(b)

at trial.

[am. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 11.]







How to bring applications by requisition




(2)

A party wishing to apply for judgment under subrule (1) (a) must file
the following:




(a)

a requisition in Form F35;




(b)

a draft of the proposed order;




(c)

proof that the case is an undefended family law case;




(d)

a certificate of the registrar in Form F36 certifying that the
pleadings and proceedings in the family law case are in order;




(e)

unless subrule (3) applies, proof of service of the notice of family
claim or counterclaim under which judgment is sought;




(f)

if appropriate, a Child Support Affidavit in Form F37;




(f.1)

if guardianship of one or more children is being sought, an affidavit
in Form F101;




(g)

if a divorce is sought, an affidavit in Form F38;




(h)

if any of the following orders under the

Divorce Act

are being sought, a statement of information for corollary relief
proceedings in Form F102:




(i)

a child support order;




(ii)

a spousal support order;




(iii)

a parenting order.



[For the purposes of paragraph (f), it is "appropriate" to file a
child support affidavit if





(a) the family law case includes a claim for divorce and the notice
of family claim, response to family claim, counterclaim or response
to counterclaim identifies a child of the marriage within the
meaning of the

Divorce Act

, or




(b) the family law case includes a claim for child support.]




[If an order is sought to appoint a person as the guardian of one or
more children, the Form F101 affidavit referred to in Rule 15-2.1
must be provided to the court with the other application materials.]


[am. B.C. Regs. 41/2013, s. 6; 208/2020, s. 3.]






When proof of service is not required



(3)

A party wishing to apply for judgment under subrule (1) (a) need not
file proof of service of the notice of family claim or counterclaim
under which judgment is sought if the party against whom judgment is
sought had filed a response to family claim or response to
counterclaim, as the case may be, even though that response to family
claim or response to counterclaim has been withdrawn.








Evidence in undefended family law case if divorce sought




(4)

In an undefended family law case in which a divorce is sought, the
evidence, and any information required to enable the court to comply
with sections 10 and 11 of the

Divorce Act

, may be presented by affidavit, unless the court otherwise orders.







Powers of court on application



(5)

On being satisfied that an application under subrule (1) (a) is
appropriate, the court may give any directions it considers will
further the object of these Supreme Court Family Rules and may,
without limitation,




(a)

make an order or grant judgment without the attendance of lawyers or
the applicant,




(b)

direct the attendance of lawyers or the applicant, or




(c)

direct that further evidence be presented.




Rule 10-11 — Final Orders in Defended Family Law Cases







Final orders in defended family law cases




(1)

To obtain a final order, other than at trial, in a defended family law
case begun by the filing of a notice of family claim, a party must
apply by way of summary trial in accordance with Rule 11-3.




Part 11 — Pre-Trial Resolution Procedures



Rule 11-1 — Offers to Settle






Definition



(1)

In this rule,
"offer to settle"
means




(a)

an offer to settle made and delivered before July 2, 2008 under Rule
37 of the former Supreme Court Rules, as that rule read on the date of
the offer to settle, and in relation to which no order was made under
that rule,




(b)

an offer of settlement made and delivered before July 2, 2008 under
Rule 37A of the former Supreme Court Rules, as that rule read on the
date of the offer of settlement, and in relation to which no order was
made under that rule, or




(c)

an offer to settle made after July 1, 2008 under Rule 37B of the
former Supreme Court Rules, as that rule read on the date of the offer
to settle, or made under this rule, that




(i)

is made in writing by a party to a family law case,




(ii)

has been served on all parties, and




(iii)

contains the following sentence: "The ..............[
party(ies)
].............., ..............[
name(s) of party(ies)
].............., reserve(s) the right to bring this offer to the
attention of the court for consideration in relation to costs after
the court has pronounced judgment on all other issues in this
proceeding."







Offer not to be disclosed



(2)

The fact that an offer to settle has been made must not be disclosed
to the court or jury, or set out in any document used in the family
law case, until all issues in the family law case, other than costs,
have been determined.







Offer not an admission



(3)

An offer to settle is not an admission.








Offer may be considered in relation to costs




(4)

The court may consider an offer to settle when exercising the court's
discretion in relation to costs.







Cost options



(5)

In a family law case in which an offer to settle has been made, the
court may do one or more of the following:




(a)

deprive a party of any or all of the costs, including any or all of
the disbursements, to which the party would otherwise be entitled in
respect of all or some of the steps taken in the family law case after
the date of delivery or service of the offer to settle;




(b)

award double costs of all or some of the steps taken in the family law
case after the date of delivery or service of the offer to settle;




(c)

award to a party, in respect of all or some of the steps taken in the
family law case after the date of delivery or service of the offer to
settle, costs to which the party would have been entitled had the
offer not been made;




(d)

if the party who made the offer obtained a judgment as favourable as,
or more favourable than, the terms of the offer, award to the party
the party's costs in respect of all or some of the steps taken in the
family law case after the date of delivery or service of the offer to
settle.


[am. B.C. Regs. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 12; 121/2014, s. 8.]







Considerations of court



(6)

In making an order under subrule (5), the court may consider the
following:




(a)

whether the offer to settle was one that ought reasonably to have been
accepted, either on the date that the offer to settle was delivered or
served or on any later date;




(b)

the relationship between the terms of settlement offered and the final
judgment of the court;




(c)

the relative financial circumstances of the parties;




(d)

any other factor the court considers appropriate.







Counter offer



(7)

An offer to settle does not expire by reason that a counter offer is
made.




Rule 11-2 — Striking Documents







Scandalous, frivolous or vexatious matters




(1)

At any stage of a family law case, the court may order to be struck
out or amended the whole or any part of a pleading, petition or other
document on the ground that




(a)

it discloses no reasonable claim or defence, as the case may be,




(b)

it is unnecessary, scandalous, frivolous or vexatious,




(c)

it may prejudice, embarrass or delay the fair trial or hearing of the
family law case, or




(d)

it is otherwise an abuse of the process of the court,


and the court may pronounce judgment or order the family law case to
be stayed or dismissed and may order the costs of the application to
be paid as special costs.

[am. B.C. Reg. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 13.]






Admissibility of evidence



(2)

No evidence is admissible on an application under subrule (1) (a).







Powers of registrar



(3)

If, on the filing of a document, a registrar considers that the whole
or any part of the document could be the subject of an order under
subrule (1),




(a)

the registrar may, despite any other provision of these Supreme Court
Family Rules,




(i)

retain the document and all filed copies of it, and




(ii)

refer the document to the court, and




(b)

the court may, after a summary hearing, make an order under subrule
(1).







Reconsideration of order



(4)

If the court makes an order referred to in subrule (3) (b),




(a)

the registrar must give notification of the order, in the manner
directed by the court, to the person who filed the document,




(b)

the person who filed the document may, within 7 days after being
notified, apply to the court, and




(c)

the court may confirm, vary or rescind the order.




Rule 11-3 — Summary Trial






Definition



(1)

In this rule,
"summary trial application"
means an application referred to in subrule (2).







Application



(2)

A party may apply to the court for judgment under this rule, either on
an issue or generally, in any of the following:




(a)

a family law case in which a response to family claim has been filed;




(b)

a family law case that has been transferred to the trial list under
Rule 10-3 (7) (d);




(c)

a family law case by way of counterclaim in which a response to
counterclaim has been filed;




(d)

an undefended family law case.

[am. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 12.]






When application must be heard



(3)

A summary trial application must be heard at least 42 days before the
scheduled trial date.







Setting application for hearing



(4)

Unless the court otherwise orders, a summary trial application must be
set for hearing in accordance with Part 10.







Evidence on application



(5)

Unless the court otherwise orders, on a summary trial application, the
applicant and each other party may, subject to Rule 15-2.1, introduce
evidence by any or all of the following:




(a)

an affidavit;




(b)

an answer, or part of an answer, to interrogatories;




(c)

any part of the evidence taken on an examination for discovery;




(d)

an admission under Rule 9-6;




(e)

a report setting out the opinion of an expert, if




(i)

the report conforms with Rule 13-6 (1), or




(ii)

the court orders that the report is admissible even though it does not
conform with Rule 13-6 (1).



[If an order is sought on a summary trial application to appoint a
person as the guardian of one or more children, the affidavit
referred to in Rule 15-2.1 must be provided to the court with the
other application materials.]


[am. B.C. Reg. 41/2013, s. 7.]






Application of Rule 14-7



(6)

Rule 14-7 (46), (49), (50), (51) and (56) to (58) applies to subrule
(5) of this rule.







Application of Rules 13-6 and 13-7



(7)

Rule 13-6 (2) applies to a summary trial application.

[am. B.C. Reg. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 14.]






Filings with application



(8)

A party who applies for judgment under subrule (2)




(a)

must serve, with the notice of application and the other documents
referred to in Rule 10-6 (6), every expert report, not already filed,
on which the party will rely in support of the application, and




(b)

must not serve any further affidavits, expert reports or notices
except




(i)

to introduce evidence that would, at a trial, be admitted as rebuttal
evidence,




(ii)

to respond to a notice of application filed and served by another
party, or




(iii)

with leave of the court.








Notice of evidence to be used on application




(9)

If a party intends, on a summary trial application, to rely on




(a)

evidence taken on an examination for discovery,




(b)

answers to interrogatories, or




(c)

admissions,


the party must give notice of that fact in accordance with subrule
(10).







Giving notice



(10)

Notice under subrule (9) must be served




(a)

by an applicant, in accordance with Rule 10-6 (6) and (7), and




(b)

by a party who is not an applicant, in accordance with Rule 10-6 (8).

[am. B.C. Reg. 241/2010, Sch. B, s. 2.]






Adjournment or dismissal



(11)

On an application heard before or at the same time as the hearing of a
summary trial application, the court may




(a)

adjourn the summary trial application, or




(b)

dismiss the summary trial application on the ground that




(i)

the issues raised by the summary trial application are not suitable
for disposition under this rule, or




(ii)

the summary trial application will not assist the efficient resolution
of the family law case.







Preliminary orders



(12)

On or before the hearing of a summary trial application, the court may
order that




(a)

a party file and serve, within a fixed time, any of the following on
which the party intends to rely in support of the application:




(i)

an affidavit;




(ii)

a notice referred to in subrule (9),




(b)

the person who swore or affirmed an affidavit, or an expert whose
report is relied on, attend for cross-examination, either before the
court or before another person as the court directs,




(c)

cross-examinations on affidavits be completed within a fixed time,




(d)

no further evidence be introduced on the application after a fixed
time, or




(e)

a party file and serve a brief, with such contents as the court may
order, within a fixed time.








Ancillary or preliminary orders may be made at or before application




(13)

An order under subrule (11) or (12) may be made by a judge or by an
associate judge, and may be made before or at the same time as a
summary trial application.

[am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3, s. 1.]






Judge not seized of application



(14)

A judge who makes an order under subrule (11) or (12) in relation to a
summary trial application is not seized of the summary trial
application unless the judge otherwise orders.







Judgment



(15)

On the hearing of a summary trial application, the court may




(a)

grant judgment in favour of any party, either on an issue or
generally, unless




(i)

the court is unable, on the whole of the evidence before the court on
the application, to find the facts necessary to decide the issues of
fact or law, or




(ii)

the court is of the opinion that it would be unjust to decide the
issues on the application,




(b)

impose terms respecting enforcement of the judgment, including a stay
of execution, and




(c)

award costs.







No further application without leave



(16)

If the court does not grant judgment under subrule (15), the applicant
may not apply again under subrule (2) without leave of the court.







Orders



(17)

If the court is unable to grant judgment under subrule (15) and
considers that the family law case ought to be expedited, the court
may order the trial of a family law case generally or on an issue and
may




(a)

order that the parties attend a judicial case conference,




(b)

make any order that may be made under Rule 7-1 (15), or




(c)

make any other order the court considers will further the object of
these Supreme Court Family Rules.







Right to vary or set aside order



(18)

A court may, before or at trial, vary or set aside an order made under
subrule (12) or (17) of this rule.




Rule 11-4 — Discontinuance and Withdrawal







Discontinuance before family law case set for trial




(1)

At any time before a notice of trial is filed in a family law case, a
claimant may discontinue it in whole or in part against a respondent
by filing a notice of discontinuance in Form F39 and serving a filed
copy of the notice of discontinuance on all parties.








Discontinuance after family law case set for trial




(2)

After a notice of trial is filed in a family law case, a claimant may
discontinue the family law case in whole or in part against a
respondent with the consent of all parties or by leave of the court.







Withdrawal by respondent



(3)

A respondent may withdraw his or her response to family claim or any
part of it with respect to any claimant at any time by filing a notice
of withdrawal in Form F40 and serving a filed copy of the notice of
withdrawal on all parties.








Costs and default procedure on discontinuance or withdrawal




(4)

Subject to subrule (2), a person wholly discontinuing a family law
case against a party or wholly withdrawing his or her response to
family claim filed in response to a notice of family claim of a party
must pay the costs of that party to the date of service of the notice
of discontinuance or the notice of withdrawal, as the case may be, and
if a claimant who is liable for costs under this subrule subsequently
brings a proceeding for the same or substantially the same claim
before paying those costs, the court may order the proceeding to be
stayed until the costs are paid.







Some costs remain recoverable



(5)

A claimant's right to recover costs from a respondent under subrule
(4) does not preclude the claimant recovering other costs properly
incurred.








Proceeding after response is withdrawn




(6)

If a respondent wholly withdraws his or her response under this rule,
the claimant may proceed as if the respondent had served no response
and Rule 4-3 (2) applies.







Discontinuance not a defence



(7)

Unless the court otherwise orders, the discontinuance of a family law
case in whole or in part is not a defence to a subsequent family law
case for the same or substantially the same claim or claims.








Application to counterclaim and petition




(8)

This rule applies to a counterclaim and a petition.




Part 12 — Property and Injunctions



Rule 12-1 — Detention, Preservation and Recovery of Property







Property that is the subject matter of a family law case




(1)

The court may make an order for the detention, custody or preservation
of any property that is the subject matter of a family law case or as
to which a question may arise and, for the purpose of enabling an
order under this rule to be carried out, the court may authorize a
person to enter on any land or building.








Fund that is the subject matter of a family law case




(2)

If the right of a party to a specific fund is in dispute in a family
law case, the court may order the fund to be paid into court or
otherwise secured.







Allowance of income from property



(3)

If property is the subject matter of a family law case and the court
is satisfied that the property will be more than sufficient to answer
all claims on it, the court at any time




(a)

may allow the whole or part of the income of the property to be paid,
during such period as the court may direct, to a party who has an
interest in it, or




(b)

in the case of personal property, may order that part of the personal
property be delivered or transferred to a party.







Recovery of specific property



(4)

If a party claims the recovery of specific property other than land,
the court may order that the property claimed be given up to the
party, pending the outcome of the family law case, either
unconditionally or on terms and conditions, if any, relating to giving
security, time, mode of trial or otherwise.







Compensation for wrongful recovery



(5)

Unless the court otherwise orders, if an order is made under subrule
(4) in favour of a party, the order must contain the party's
undertaking to abide by any order that the court may make as to
damages arising out of delivery of the property to the party or
compliance with any other order.




Rule 12-2 — Receivers






Appointment of receiver



(1)

The court may appoint a receiver in any proceeding either
unconditionally or on terms, whether or not the appointment of a
receiver was included in the relief claimed by the applicant.







Form of security



(2)

Unless the court otherwise orders, a receiver must give security as
the court may direct in either Form F41 or Form F42 and, until that
security is given, the order appointing the receiver must not be
presented for entry.







Remuneration of receiver



(3)

The court must fix any remuneration to be paid to a receiver.







Accounts of receiver



(4)

Unless the court otherwise orders, a receiver must file and deliver
his or her accounts annually.




Rule 12-3 — Interpleader







Entitlement to relief by way of interpleader




(1)

If




(a)

a person (in this rule called the "applicant")




(i)

is sued or expects to be sued in respect of property in the person's
possession or under the person's control or in respect of the proceeds
from a disposition of the property, or




(ii)

receives a claim in respect of




(A)

the property, or




(B)

the proceeds


by or from 2 or more persons (in this rule called the "property
claimants") making adverse claims, and




(b)

the applicant claims no beneficial interest in the property,


the applicant may apply to the court for interpleader relief.








Claim to real or personal property taken by sheriff




(2)

A person who makes a claim to or in respect of property taken or
intended to be taken by a sheriff in the execution of any writ of
execution, or to the proceeds from a disposition of the property, must
deliver to the sheriff written notice of the person's claim and the
person's address.







Sheriff to deliver notice



(3)

On receipt of a notice of claim under subrule (2), a sheriff must
promptly deliver a copy of the notice to the person who caused the
writ of execution to issue, and that person must, within 7 days after
receiving the copy, deliver to the sheriff a written notice stating
whether that person admits or disputes the claim.







If claim admitted



(4)

Promptly after receiving under subrule (3) a notice admitting a claim,




(a)

a sheriff must release any property the claim to which is admitted,
and




(b)

the court may restrain the bringing of a proceeding against the
sheriff for or in respect of having taken possession of the property,
and


unless the court otherwise orders, the person who admitted the claim
is only liable to the sheriff for any costs, fees and expenses
incurred by the sheriff before receipt of the notice admitting the
claim.








Sheriff may apply for interpleader relief




(5)

A sheriff who receives a notice of claim under subrule (2) may apply
for interpleader relief if




(a)

the sheriff receives a notice under subrule (3) disputing the claim,
or




(b)

the person who caused the writ of execution to issue fails to give the
sheriff the notice required under subrule (3) within the time required
by that subrule.







Mode of application



(6)

An application for interpleader relief must be made by petition,
unless it is made in a proceeding that has already been started, in
which case it may be made by notice of application.







Affidavit



(7)

An application for interpleader relief must be supported by an
affidavit stating the names and addresses of the property claimants of
whom the applicant has knowledge and that the applicant




(a)

claims no beneficial interest in the property in dispute, other than
for costs, fees or expenses,




(b)

does not collude with any property claimant, and




(c)

is willing to deliver the property to the court or to dispose of it as
the court may direct.







Application for interpleader relief



(8)

An application for interpleader relief may be made without notice, and
the court may deal with the application summarily or may give
directions for service.








Powers of court on hearing application




(9)

On the hearing of an application for interpleader relief, the court
may




(a)

order a property claimant to be named as a party to a proceeding that
has already been started in substitution for or in addition to the
applicant,




(b)

order an issue between the property claimants to be stated and tried
in an action and direct which property claimant is to be the plaintiff
in the action and which property claimant is to be the defendant,




(c)

on the request of the applicant or a property claimant, determine the
rights of the property claimants summarily,




(d)

if a property claimant fails to attend, or attends and fails or
refuses to comply with an order made in the proceeding, make an order
declaring that the property claimant and all persons claiming under
the property claimant be forever barred from prosecuting the claim
against the applicant, without affecting the rights of the property
claimants as between themselves,




(e)

stay any further step in a proceeding,




(f)

if there are interpleader applications pending in several proceedings,
make an order that is binding on all the parties to the various
proceedings,




(g)

order the costs of the applicant to be paid out of the property or
proceeds,




(h)

declare that the liability of the applicant with respect to the
property or the proceeds is extinguished, and




(i)

make any other order the court considers will further the object of
these Supreme Court Family Rules.




Rule 12-4 — Injunctions







Applications for pre-trial injunctions




(1)

An application for a pre-trial injunction may be made by a party
whether or not a claim for an injunction is included in the relief
claimed.








Applications for pre-trial injunctions before family law case
started




(2)

An application for a pre-trial injunction may be made before the start
of a family law case and the injunction may be granted on terms
providing for the start of the family law case.








Applications for interim injunctions without notice




(3)

If an application for a pre-trial injunction is made without notice,
the court may grant an interim injunction.







Injunction by court order



(4)

An injunction must be imposed by order of the court.







Undertaking as to damages



(5)

Unless the court otherwise orders, an order for a pre-trial or interim
injunction must contain the applicant's undertaking to abide by any
order that the court may make as to damages.








Application for injunction after judgment




(6)

In a family law case in which an injunction has been or might have
been claimed, a party may apply by petition after judgment to restrain
another party from the repetition or continuance of the wrongful act
or breach of contract established by the judgment or from the
commission of any act or breach of a like kind.




Part 13 — Court Ordered Reports and Expert Witnesses



Rule 13-1 — Court Ordered Reports under Section 211 of the
Family Law Act







Report must include address for service




(1)

If, under section 211 of the

Family Law Act

, the court appoints a person to conduct an assessment, that person
must




(a)

include in the report required under section 211 (4) of that Act an
address for service at which a notice under subrule (2) may be served,
and




(b)

unless the court otherwise orders, file a copy of the report and serve
a filed copy of the report on all parties at least 42 days before the
scheduled trial date.

[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 19.]







Permission required to call person who prepares court-ordered report




(2)

A party who wishes to cross-examine at trial the person who prepared a
report referred to in subrule (1) must, at least 28 days before the
scheduled trial date, serve on the person and all parties, by ordinary
service, a notice in Form F43.

[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 19.]



Rule 13-2 — Duty of Expert Witnesses






Duty of expert witness



(1)

In giving an opinion to the court, an expert appointed under this Part
by one or more parties or by the court has a duty to assist the court
and is not to be an advocate for any party.







Advice and certification



(2)

If an expert is appointed under this Part by one or more parties or by
the court, the expert must, in any report he or she prepares under
this Part, certify that he or she




(a)

is aware of the duty referred to in subrule (1),




(b)

has made the report in conformity with that duty, and




(c)

will, if called on to give oral or written testimony, give that
testimony in conformity with that duty.




Rule 13-3 — Appointing Joint Expert Witnesses






Definition



(1)

In this rule,
"financial issue"
means




(a)

an issue arising out of a claim under Part 5 or 6 of the

Family Law Act

or out of an application for a FHRMIRA order,




(b)

a claim for an interest in property based on unjust enrichment or
other trust claims, or




(c)

a claim for compensation based on unjust enrichment.

[am. B.C. Regs. 133/2012, s. 5; 249/2014, s. 5.]






Joint appointment on financial issues



(2)

If any party wishes to present to the court expert opinion evidence on
a financial issue,




(a)

that evidence must be presented to the court by means of a jointly
appointed expert unless the court otherwise orders or the parties
otherwise agree, and




(b)

Rule 13-4 applies.








Other appointments on non-financial issues




(3)

If a party wishes to present to the court expert opinion evidence on
an issue other than a financial issue,




(a)

the parties may present that evidence by means of a jointly appointed
expert under Rule 13-4, or




(b)

any one or more of the parties may appoint his or her own expert.




Rule 13-4 — Jointly Appointed Experts







Matters to be settled prior to appointment




(1)

When an expert is to be jointly appointed by 2 or more parties under
Rule 13-3 (2) or (3) (a), the following must be settled before the
expert is appointed:




(a)

the identity of the expert;




(b)

the issue in the family law case the expert opinion evidence may help
to resolve;




(c)

any facts or assumptions of fact agreed to by the parties;




(d)

for each party, any assumptions of fact not included under paragraph
(c) of this subrule that the party wishes the expert to consider;




(e)

the questions to be considered by the expert;




(f)

when the report must be prepared by the expert and given to the
parties;




(g)

responsibility for fees and expenses payable to the expert.







Appointment agreement



(2)

If the parties agree on the matters referred to in subrule (1), they
must enter into a written agreement that reflects those agreed upon
matters and




(a)

the agreement must be signed by each party to the agreement or their
lawyers,




(b)

the agreement must be signed by the expert to signify that he or she




(i)

has been made aware of the content of this Part, and




(ii)

consents to the appointment reflected in the agreement, and




(c)

a copy of the agreement must be served, promptly after signing, on
every party to the family law case who is not a party to the
agreement.







Application to court



(3)

If the parties do not agree that a joint expert is required or do not
agree on any matter relating to the appointment of a joint expert, any
party may apply to the court in accordance with Rule 10-5 for an order




(a)

appointing a joint expert, and




(b)

settling any matter relating to the appointment of the joint expert.







Order



(4)

If the court makes an order on an application under subrule (3), the
applicant for the order must promptly serve the expert with a copy of
the entered order.








Role of expert appointed under this rule




(5)

Unless the court otherwise orders on an application referred to in
subrule (6), a joint expert appointed in relation to an issue, by
agreement under subrule (2) or by a court order made on an application
under subrule (3), is the only expert who may give expert opinion
evidence in the family law case on the issue.







Notice of application



(6)

A party wishing to apply under subrule (5) for leave to introduce the
evidence of an additional expert at trial must, within 21 days after
receipt of the joint expert's report, serve on all parties the
documents that under Rule 10-6 (6) are required for the application.







Additional experts



(7)

The court may, on an application referred to in subrule (6) of this
rule, grant leave for the evidence of an additional expert to be
introduced at trial if the court is satisfied that the evidence of
that additional expert is necessary to ensure a fair trial.







Considerations



(8)

In assessing whether to grant leave for the evidence of an additional
expert to be introduced at trial, the court may consider




(a)

whether the parties have fully cooperated with the joint expert and
have made full and timely disclosure of all relevant information and
documents to the joint expert,




(b)

whether the dispute about the opinions of the joint expert may be
resolved by requesting clarification or further opinions from that
expert, and




(c)

any other factor the court considers relevant.







Cooperation required



(9)

All parties must cooperate fully with a joint expert and make full and
timely disclosure of all relevant information and documents to the
joint expert.







Cross-examination



(10)

Each party has the right to cross-examine a joint expert at trial.




Rule 13-5 — Appointment of Court's Own Expert






Appointment of experts by court



(1)

Subject to this rule, the court may, on its own initiative at any
stage of a family law case, appoint an expert if it considers that
expert opinion evidence may help the court in resolving an issue in
the family law case.







Materials required by court



(2)

In deciding whether to appoint an expert under this rule in relation
to an issue in a family law case, the court may




(a)

ask each party to name one or more persons who




(i)

are qualified to give expert opinion evidence on the issue, and




(ii)

have been made aware of the content of this Part and consent to being
appointed,




(b)

require each party to state any connection between an expert named
under paragraph (a) and a party to the family law case, and




(c)

receive other material and make other inquiries to help decide which
expert to appoint.







Court may name different expert



(3)

The court may appoint an expert under this rule whether or not that
expert was named by a party under subrule (2).







Expert must consent



(4)

The court may appoint an expert under this rule if the expert consents
to the appointment after he or she has been made aware of the content
of this Part.







What court may consider



(5)

In deciding whether to appoint an expert under this rule in relation
to an issue in a family law case, the court may consider




(a)

the complexity of the issue,




(b)

the expense of appointing the expert,




(c)

whether the appointment will expedite or delay the trial of the family
law case,




(d)

the interests of justice, and




(e)

any other consideration the court considers relevant.







Previous report not a bar



(6)

The court may appoint an expert under this rule in relation to an
issue even if that expert has already given a report to a party on the
issue or on another issue in the family law case.







Consequences of court appointment



(7)

Unless the court otherwise orders, if an expert is appointed under
this rule to give expert opinion evidence on an issue, each party has
the right to cross-examine the expert.







Directions to expert



(8)

The court, after consultation with the parties, must




(a)

settle the questions to be submitted to any expert appointed by the
court under this rule,




(b)

give the expert any directions the court considers appropriate, and




(c)

give the parties any directions the court considers appropriate to
facilitate the expert's ability to provide the required opinion.







Contents of order appointing expert



(9)

The order appointing an expert under this rule must contain the
directions referred to in subrule (8) and the court may make
additional orders to enable the expert to carry out the directions
applicable to him or her, including, on application by a party, an
order under Rule 9-5 for




(a)

an examination with respect to the physical or mental condition of a
party, or




(b)

inspection of property.







Remuneration of expert



(10)

The remuneration of an expert appointed under this rule




(a)

must be fixed by the court and consented to by the expert, and




(b)

may include




(i)

a fee for the report, and any supplementary reports, required under
Rule 13-6, and




(ii)

an appropriate sum for each day that the expert's attendance in court
is required.







Security for remuneration



(11)

The court may make one or both of the following orders, without
prejudice to any party's right to costs:




(a)

an order directing that the expert's remuneration be paid by the
persons and at the time ordered by the court;




(b)

an order for security for the expert's remuneration.







Report



(12)

An expert appointed under this rule must




(a)

prepare a report that complies with Rule 13-6 and send it to the
registry, with a copy to each party, within such time as the court
directs, and




(b)

if the expert's opinion changes in a material way after an expert's
report is sent to the registry under paragraph (a), prepare a
supplementary report that complies with Rule 13-6 and send it to the
registry, with a copy to each party, within such time as the court
directs.







Report must be introduced as evidence



(13)

Each report and supplementary report of an expert appointed by the
court under this rule must be introduced as evidence at the trial of
the family law case, unless the trial judge otherwise orders.




Rule 13-6 — Expert Reports






Requirements for report



(1)

An expert's report that is to be introduced as evidence at the trial
must be signed by the expert, must include the certification required
under Rule 13-2 (2) and must set out the following:




(a)

the expert's name, address and area of expertise;




(b)

the expert's qualifications and employment and educational experience
in his or her area of expertise;




(c)

the instructions provided to the expert in relation to the family law
case;




(d)

the nature of the opinion being sought and the issues in the family
law case to which the opinion relates;




(e)

the expert's opinion respecting those issues;




(f)

the expert's reasons for his or her opinion, including




(i)

a description of the factual assumptions on which the opinion is
based,




(ii)

a description of any research conducted by the expert that led him or
her to form the opinion, and




(iii)

a list of every document, if any, relied on by the expert in forming
the opinion.

[am. B.C. Reg. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 15.]






Proof of qualifications



(2)

The assertion of qualifications of an expert is evidence of them.







Service of report



(3)

Unless the court otherwise orders, at least 84 days before the
scheduled trial date, an expert's report, other than the report of an
expert appointed by the court under Rule 13-5, must be served on every
party, along with written notice that the report is being served under
this rule,




(a)

by the party who intends, with leave of the court under Rule 13-4 (7)
or otherwise, to introduce the expert's report at trial, or




(b)

if 2 or more parties jointly appointed the expert, by each party who
intends to tender the expert's report at trial.







Service of responding report



(4)

Unless the court otherwise orders, if a party intends to introduce an
expert's report at trial to respond to an expert witness whose report
is served under subrule (3), the party must serve on every party, at
least 42 days before the scheduled trial date,




(a)

the responding report, and




(b)

written notice that the responding report is being served under this
rule.








Supplementary report of joint or court-appointed expert




(5)

If, after an expert's report is served under subrule (3) (b), the
expert's opinion changes in a material way,




(a)

the expert must, as soon as practicable, prepare a supplementary
report and ensure that that supplementary report is provided to the
party who served the report under subrule (3), and




(b)

the party to whom the supplementary report is provided under paragraph
(a) of this subrule must promptly serve that supplementary report on
every other party.







Supplementary report of own expert



(6)

If, after an expert's report is served under subrule (3) (a) or (4),
the expert's opinion changes in a material way and the party who
served the report intends to introduce that expert's report at trial
despite the change,




(a)

the expert must, as soon as practicable, prepare a supplementary
report and ensure that that supplementary report is provided to the
party, and




(b)

the party must promptly serve that supplementary report on every other
party.







Requirements for supplementary report



(7)

A supplementary report under Rule 13-5 (12) or under subrule (5) (a)
or (6) (a) of this rule must




(a)

be identified as a supplementary report,




(b)

be signed by the expert,




(c)

include the certification required under Rule 13-2 (2), and




(d)

set out the change in the expert's opinion and the reason for it.







Production of documents



(8)

Unless the court otherwise orders, if a report of a party's own expert
appointed under Rule 13-3 (3) (b) or 13-4 (7) is served under this
rule, the party who served the report must,




(a)

promptly after being asked to do so by a party, serve on the
requesting party whichever one or more of the following has been
requested:




(i)

any written statement or statements of facts on which the expert's
opinion is based;




(ii)

a record of any independent observations made by the expert in
relation to the report;




(iii)

any data compiled by the expert in relation to the report;




(iv)

the results of any test conducted by or for the expert, or of any
inspection conducted by the expert, if the expert has relied on that
test or inspection in forming his or her opinion, and




(b)

if asked to do so by a party, make available to the requesting party
for review and copying the contents of the expert's file relating to
the preparation of the opinion set out in the expert's report,




(i)

if the request is made within 14 days before the scheduled trial date,
promptly after receipt of that request, or




(ii)

in any other case, at least 14 days before the scheduled trial date.







Notice of trial date to expert



(9)

The person who is required to serve the report or supplementary report
of an expert under this rule must, promptly after the appointment of
the expert or promptly after a trial date has been obtained, whichever
is later, inform the expert of the scheduled trial date and that the
expert may be required to attend at trial for cross-examination.








Notice of objection to expert opinion evidence




(10)

A party who receives an expert report or supplementary report under
this rule must, on the earlier of the date of the trial management
conference and the date that is 21 days before the scheduled trial
date, serve on every party a notice of any objection to the
admissibility of the expert's evidence that the party receiving the
report or supplementary report intends to raise at trial.







When objection not permitted



(11)

Unless the court otherwise orders, if reasonable notice of an
objection could have been given under subrule (10), the objection must
not be permitted at trial if that notice was not given.




Rule 13-7 — Expert Opinion Evidence at Trial






Admissibility



(1)

Unless the court otherwise orders, opinion evidence of an expert,
other than an expert appointed by the court under Rule 13-5, must not
be introduced at trial unless




(a)

that evidence is included in a report of that expert that has been
prepared and served in accordance with Rule 13-6, and




(b)

any supplementary reports required under Rule 13-5 (12) or 13-6 (5) or
(6) have been prepared and served in accordance with Rule 13-6 (5) to
(7).







When report stands as evidence



(2)

Unless the court otherwise orders, the following apply to a report or
supplementary report of an expert:




(a)

if, within 21 days after service of the report or within such other
period as the court may order, a demand is made under subrule (3) of
this rule that the expert who made the report attend at trial for
cross-examination, the report must not be introduced or accepted as
evidence at the trial unless the appointing party calls the expert at
trial to be cross-examined in compliance with the demand;




(b)

if no such demand is made under subrule (3) within the demand period
referred to in paragraph (a) of this subrule,




(i)

the expert whose report has been served under this Part need not
attend at trial to give oral testimony, and




(ii)

the report, if admissible, may be introduced and accepted as evidence
at the trial.







Cross-examination of expert



(3)

A party may demand that an expert whose report has been served on the
parties under Rule 13-6 attend at the trial for cross-examination as
follows:




(a)

if the expert was jointly appointed under Rule 13-3 (2) or (3) (a) or
was appointed by the court under Rule 13-5, any party may, within the
demand period referred to in subrule (2) (a) of this rule, demand the
attendance of the expert for cross-examination by that party or by any
of the other parties;




(b)

if the expert was appointed by a party under Rule 13-3 (3) (b) or 13-4
(7), any party who is adverse in interest to the party who appointed
that expert may, within the demand period referred to in subrule (2)
(a) of this rule, demand the attendance of the expert for
cross-examination.







Costs of cross-examination



(4)

If an expert has been required to attend at trial for
cross-examination by a demand under subrule (3) and the court is of
the opinion that the cross-examination was not of assistance, the
court may order the party who demanded the attendance of the expert to
pay to the other party or to the expert costs in an amount the court
considers appropriate.








Restrictions on calling expert as witness at trial




(5)

Unless the court otherwise orders, if a party appoints his or her own
expert under Rule 13-3 (3) (b) or 13-4 (7)




(a)

the party must not call the expert to give oral evidence at trial
unless




(i)

the expert's attendance has been demanded under subrule (3) of this
rule, or




(ii)

the expert's report has been served in accordance with Rule 13-6, the
party believes direct examination of the expert is necessary to
clarify terminology in the report or to otherwise make the report more
understandable and any direct examination of that expert is limited to
those matters, and




(b)

the party must not cross-examine the expert at trial.








When court may dispense with requirement of this Part




(6)

At trial, the court may allow an expert to provide evidence, on terms
and conditions, if any, even though one or more of the requirements of
this Part have not been complied with, if




(a)

facts have come to the knowledge of one or more of the parties and
those facts could not, with due diligence, have been learned in time
to be included in a report or supplementary report and served within
the time required by this Part,




(b)

the non-compliance is unlikely to cause prejudice




(i)

by reason of an inability to prepare for cross-examination, or




(ii)

by depriving the party against whom the evidence is introduced of a
reasonable opportunity to introduce evidence in response, or




(c)

the interests of justice require it.




Part 14 — Trial Rules



Division 1 — Application



Rule 14-1 — Application






Application



(1)

This Part applies to




(a)

a family law case started by a notice of family claim, and




(b)

a family law case that is transferred to the trial list under Rule
10-3 (7) (d).




Division 2 — Setting a Family Law Case for Trial



Rule 14-2 — How to Set Trial for Hearing






Notice of trial



(1)

To set a family law case for trial, a party must file a notice of
trial in Form F44.







Content of notice of trial



(2)

A notice of trial filed under subrule (1) must include the date
reserved at a judicial case conference for the trial or, if no trial
date was reserved at a judicial case conference, the trial date
obtained from the registry.

[en. B.C. Reg. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 16.]






Registry



(3)

The notice of trial must be filed in




(a)

the registry where the document that started the family law case was
filed unless paragraph (b) applies, or




(b)

the registry to which the family law case has been transferred if the
family law case has been transferred for all purposes to another
registry.







Place of trial



(4)

The place of trial must be the place named in the notice of family
claim, if any, but the court may order that the place of trial be
changed or that the trial be heard partly in one place and partly in
another.







When notice of trial must be served



(5)

Promptly after a notice of trial has been filed, the claimant, or such
other party as may be ordered by the court, must serve a copy of the
filed notice of trial on all parties.







If trial date unacceptable



(6)

If a party on whom a notice of trial is served under subrule (5)
objects to the trial date set out in that notice of trial, the party
must, within 21 days after service of the notice of trial, apply to
the court to have the trial rescheduled.







Time of trial



(7)

The trial is to be heard on the day appointed by the notice of trial
or so soon after that day as may be convenient to the court.








Court may make orders respecting trial dates




(8)

The court may




(a)

order the adjournment of a trial,




(b)

fix the date of trial of a family law case,




(c)

fix the date of trial of an issue in a family law case, or




(d)

order that a trial take precedence over another trial.







Duty to inform registry



(9)

Each party to a family law case that has been set for trial must
advise the registry without delay




(a)

if the family law case settles, and




(b)

of any circumstances affecting the estimated length of the trial.




Rule 14-2.1 — Trial Brief






Claimant must file trial brief



(1)

Unless the court otherwise orders, the claimant must, at least 56 days
before the scheduled trial date,




(a)

file a trial brief in Form F45, and




(b)

serve a copy of the filed trial brief on each of the other parties.

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 13.]






Other parties must file trial brief



(2)

Unless the court otherwise orders, each party, other than the
claimant, must, at least 49 days before the scheduled trial date,




(a)

file a trial brief in Form F45, and




(b)

serve a copy of the filed trial brief on each of the other parties.

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 13.]






Claimant may file amended trial brief



(3)

Unless the court otherwise orders, the claimant may, at least 42 days
before the scheduled trial date,




(a)

file an amended trial brief in Form F45, and




(b)

serve a copy of the filed amended trial brief on each of the other
parties.

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 13.]






Failure to file or serve trial brief



(4)

If a party has failed to comply with subrule (1) (a) or (b) or (2) (a)
or (b), the judge or associate judge at a trial management conference
may order costs against that party.


[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 13; am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch.
3, s. 5.]







Trial removed from trial list



(5)

Unless the court otherwise orders, a trial must be removed from the
trial list if neither the claimant nor any other party has filed a
trial brief as required by subrule (1) or (2).

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 13.]






Witness list must be amended



(6)

If a party who has provided a witness list in a trial brief later
learns that the witness list is inaccurate or incomplete, the party
must promptly




(a)

file an amended witness list, and




(b)

serve a copy of the filed amended witness list on each of the other
parties.

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 13.]







Person named in witness list need not testify




(7)

Nothing in this rule requires a party to, at trial, lead evidence from
a person listed in the witness list set out in the party's trial
brief.

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 13.]







New trial briefs required if trial adjourned




(8)

If the date for the hearing of a trial is rescheduled, a party who has
already filed a trial brief as required under subrule (1)
or (2) must file a new trial brief under those subrules, as
applicable, in relation to the new scheduled trial date unless




(a)

the new scheduled trial date is less than 6 months from the date on
which the previous trial brief was filed, or




(b)

the court otherwise orders.

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 13.]



Rule 14-3 — Trial Management Conference







When trial management conference is required




(1)

A trial management conference must take place if




(a)

required by order of the court, or




(b)

unless the court otherwise orders,




(i)

more than 15 days have been reserved for the trial,




(ii)

any party is not represented by a lawyer, or may not be represented by
a lawyer at the trial, or




(iii)

a party requests a trial management conference by filing a requisition
not less than 42 days before the scheduled trial date.

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 14 (a).]







Date and place of trial management conference




(1.1)

Unless the court otherwise orders, the trial management conference
must take place at least 28 days before the scheduled trial date, at a
time and place to be fixed by a registrar.

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 14 (a).]







Trial management conference must be conducted by judge or associate
judge




(2)

A trial management conference must be conducted by a judge or
associate judge.


[am. B.C. Regs. 58/2012, Sch. B, s. 1 (a); 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 14
(b); 277/2023, Sch. 3, s. 5.]







Repealed



(3)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 14 (c).]








Who must attend the trial management conference




(4)

Unless the court otherwise orders, the following persons must attend a
trial management conference in person:




(a)

each lawyer representing a party or a child;




(b)

subject to the exception set out in subrule (6), the parties.








Non-attendance at trial management conference




(5)

If a person who, under subrule (4), is required to attend a trial
management conference fails to appear at that trial management
conference, the trial management conference judge or associate judge
may do one or more of the following:




(a)

proceed in the absence of the person who failed to appear;




(b)

adjourn the trial management conference;




(c)

order that the person, or the party on whose behalf the person was to
attend, pay costs to one or more other parties.


[am. B.C. Regs. 58/2012, Sch. B, s. 1 (b); 277/2023, Sch. 3, s. 5.]








Absent parties must be available and accessible by telephone or
other means




(6)

A party need not attend the trial management conference in person if
the party is represented by a lawyer and one of the following is
readily available for consultation during the trial management
conference, either in person or by telephone, video conference or
other communication medium:




(a)

the party;




(b)

an individual who




(i)

has full authority to make decisions for that party concerning the
family law case, or




(ii)

has ready access to a person who has, or to a group of persons who
collectively have, full authority to make decisions for that party
concerning the family law case.

[am. B.C. Reg. 176/2023. Sch. 2, s. 14 (d).]







Application must be made by requisition




(7)

An application under subrule (4) for an order respecting the manner in
which a person is to attend a trial management conference or exempting
a person from attending a trial management conference




(a)

must be made by requisition in Form F19.1, and




(b)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 15 (b).]




(c)

unless the court otherwise orders, may be made without notice.

[am. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 15.]






Proceedings must be recorded



(8)

Proceedings at a trial management conference must be recorded, but no
part of that recording may be made available to or used by any person
without court order.








Orders at a trial management conference




(9)

The judge or associate judge presiding at a trial management
conference may consider the following and, without limiting the
ability of the trial judge or associate judge to make other orders at
trial, may, whether or not on the application of a party, make orders
respecting one or more of the following:




(a)

directing the parties to attend a settlement conference;




(b)

amendment of a pleading within a fixed time;




(c)

a plan for how the trial should be conducted;




(d)

admissions of fact at trial;




(e)

admission of documents at trial, including




(i)

agreements as to the purposes for which documents may be admitted, and




(ii)

the preparation of common books of documents and document agreements;




(f)

imposing time limits for the direct examination or cross-examination
of witnesses, opening statements and final submissions;




(g)

directing that a party provide a summary of the evidence that the
party expects one or more of the party's witnesses will give at trial;




(h)

directing that evidence of witnesses be presented at trial by way of
affidavit;




(i)

respecting experts, including, without limitation, orders that the
parties' experts must, before the service of their respective reports,
confer to determine and report on those matters on which they agree
and those matters on which they do not agree;




(j)

directing that the parties present opening statements and final
submissions in writing;




(k)

adjournment of the trial;




(l)

directing that the number of days reserved for the trial be changed;




(m)

adjourning the trial management conference;




(n)

directing the parties to attend a further trial management conference
at a specified date and time;




(o)

any other matter that may assist in making the trial more efficient;




(p)

any other matter that may aid in the resolution of the family law
case;




(q)

any orders the judge or associate judge considers will further the
object of these Supreme Court Family Rules.


[am. B.C. Regs. 58/2012, Sch. B, s. 1 (b); 277/2023, Sch. 3, s. 5.]








When approval in writing by lawyer not required




(10)

Without limiting Rule 15-1 (4), if an order under subrule (9) of this
rule is signed or initialled by the trial management conference judge
or associate judge, that order need not be approved in writing by a
lawyer or by a party.


[am. B.C. Regs. 58/2012, Sch. B, s. 1 (b); 277/2023, Sch. 3, s. 5.]







Prohibited orders



(11)

A trial management conference judge or associate judge must not, at a
trial management conference,




(a)

hear any application for which affidavit evidence is required, or




(b)

make an order for final judgment, except by consent.


[am. B.C. Regs. 58/2012, Sch. B, s. 1 (b); 277/2023, Sch. 3, s. 5.]




Rule 14-4 — Trial Record






Trial record for the court



(1)

The party who files a notice of trial must file a trial record for the
court, which trial record must contain




(a)

the notice of family claim and each response to family claim,
counterclaim and response to counterclaim,




(b)

particulars served under a demand, together with the demand made,




(c)

the most current Form F8 financial statement, if any, filed by each
party,




(c.1)

the most current Form F102 statement of information for corollary
relief proceedings, if any, filed by each party in accordance with
Rule 15-2.2,




(d)

any order relating to the conduct of the trial,




(d.1)

the trial brief filed by each party, and




(e)

any document required by a registrar under subrule (2).


[am. B.C. Regs. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 17; 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 16.]








Powers of registrar respecting trial records




(2)

A registrar may direct inclusion in the trial record of any document
the registrar thinks necessary or may reject a trial record that, in
the registrar's opinion,




(a)

does not contain all the documents required under subrule (1),




(b)

contains a document that is not a document required under subrule (1),
or




(c)

is illegible.







Filing and service of trial record



(3)

The party referred to in subrule (1) must




(a)

file the trial record at least 14 days before but not more than 28
days before the scheduled trial date, and




(b)

promptly after filing, serve a copy of the filed trial record on all
parties.







Amended trial record



(4)

If the whole or any part of, including any Schedule to, a pleading is
amended after service of the trial record, the party who filed the
notice of trial must




(a)

amend the trial record by substituting the amended pleading for the
version of the pleading that had previously been included, and




(b)

at least one day before the trial,




(i)

file the amended trial record, and




(ii)

serve a copy on all parties.







When certificate required



(5)

A party to a family law case in which a claim for divorce or nullity
is made must not file




(a)

a trial record,




(b)

a notice of application under Rule 11-3, or




(c)

a requisition in an application for judgment under Rule 10-10 (1) (a)


unless a party has filed a certificate in Form F36, signed by the
registrar, certifying that the pleadings and proceedings in the family
law case are in order.

[am. B.C. Reg. 321/2021, Sch. 2, s. 5.]






Direction as to trial record



(6)

If the court directs that a family law case be set down for trial, it
may also direct one of the parties to prepare, file and serve a trial
record.




Rule 14-5 — Trial Certificate






Trial certificate



(1)

Each party must file a trial certificate in Form F46 in the registry
where the action was commenced.

[am. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 17 (a).]






When trial certificate must be filed



(2)

A trial certificate must be filed at least 14 days before but not more
than 28 days before the scheduled trial date.







What trial certificate must contain



(3)

A trial certificate must contain the following:




(a)

a statement that the party filing the trial certificate will be ready
to proceed on the scheduled trial date;




(b)

a statement certifying that the party filing the trial certificate has
completed all examinations for discovery that the party intends to
conduct;




(c)

the party's current estimate of the length of the trial;




(d)

a statement that a trial management conference has been conducted or
was not required in the family law case.


[am. B.C. Regs. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 18; 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 17 (b).]







Service



(4)

Promptly after filing a trial certificate, the filing party must serve
a copy of the filed trial certificate on all parties.







Failure to file



(5)

Unless the court otherwise orders, if no party files a trial
certificate, the trial must be removed from the trial list.

[am. B.C. Reg. 95/2011, Sch. B, s. 2.]






Applications prohibited



(6)

A party who fails to file a trial certificate under subrule (1) is
not, without leave of the court, entitled to make further
applications.




Division 3 — Conduct of Trial



Rule 14-6 — Mode of Trial






Trial without jury



(1)

A trial must be heard by the court without a jury.







Trial of one question before others



(2)

The court may order that one or more questions of fact or law be tried
and determined before the others.




Rule 14-7 — Evidence and Procedure at Trial






Application



(1)

This rule does not apply to summary trials under Rule 11-3, except as
provided in that rule.



Proof of Facts and Documents






Court may vary order



(2)

An order made under this rule concerning the mode of proving a fact or
document or of introducing evidence may be revoked or varied by a
subsequent order made at or before the trial.







Failure to prove a material fact



(3)

If a party omits or fails to prove some fact material to the party's
case, the court may proceed with the trial, subject to that fact being
afterwards proved as the court directs, and, unless the court
otherwise orders, judgment must be entered according to whether or not
that fact is or is not afterwards proved as directed.



No Evidence and Insufficient Evidence Applications






No evidence application



(4)

At the close of the claimant's case, the respondent may apply to have
the family law case dismissed on the ground that there is no evidence
to support the claimant's case.








Respondent need not elect whether to call evidence




(5)

A respondent is entitled to apply under subrule (4) without being
called on to elect whether or not to call evidence.







Insufficient evidence application



(6)

At the close of the claimant's case, the respondent may apply to have
the family law case dismissed on the ground that the evidence is
insufficient to make out the claimant's case.








Respondent must elect not to call evidence




(7)

Unless the court otherwise orders, an application under subrule (6)
may be made only after the respondent has elected not to call
evidence.



Documentary and Other Exhibits






Notice to produce



(8)

By serving a notice in Form F47 at least 2 days before a trial, a
party may require any other party to bring to the trial




(a)

any document listed by the other party in a list of documents prepared
under Rule 9-1, and




(b)

any physical object in the other party's possession or control that
the party serving the notice contemplates introducing at the trial as
an exhibit, but the notice must identify the object.







Numbering exhibit pages



(9)

If a copy of a document is introduced as an exhibit,




(a)

each page of the exhibit must be numbered sequentially, beginning with
the first page of the exhibit and ending with the last page of the
exhibit, or




(b)

if the exhibit is divided by tabs,




(i)

each page of the exhibit that is not behind a tab must be numbered
sequentially, beginning with the first of those pages and ending with
the last of those pages, and




(ii)

each page of the exhibit that is behind a tab must be numbered
sequentially, beginning with the first page behind the tab and ending
with the last page behind the tab.







Opportunity to inspect exhibit



(10)

Unless the court otherwise orders or the parties otherwise agree, no
plan, photograph or object may be received in evidence at the trial of
a family law case unless, at least 7 days before the start of the
trial, the parties have been given an opportunity to inspect it.







Registrar to take charge of exhibits



(11)

A registrar must




(a)

take charge of each document or object put in as an exhibit,




(b)

mark or label each exhibit with a number, and




(c)

make a list of the exhibits, giving a short description of each and
stating by whom it was introduced.







Return of exhibits



(12)

Subject to subrule (13), after the time for appeal from judgment has
expired or after the disposition of an appeal, new trial or further
appeal, whichever is latest, a registrar may return an exhibit to the
party who introduced it.







Other returns



(13)

The parties may agree or the court may order that an exhibit be
returned at an earlier time or to a person other than the party who
introduced it.








Disposal of exhibits after final disposition




(14)

A registrar may, with the approval of the Deputy Attorney General,
destroy or otherwise dispose of an exhibit introduced in evidence in a
family law case if the return of the exhibit has not been applied for
within one year after the later of




(a)

the date of the judgment at trial in, or any other final disposition
of, the family law case, and




(b)

the date of the judgment on, or any other final disposition of, any
appeal, new trial or further appeal.








Notice respecting disposal of exhibits before final disposition




(15)

If an exhibit is introduced in evidence in a family law case and
nothing is filed in that family law case for a period of 2 years, a
registrar may notify the parties that the registrar intends to destroy
or otherwise dispose of the exhibit unless, within 30 days after the
date of the notice,




(a)

an application is made for the return of the exhibit, or




(b)

a notice of intention to proceed in Form F48 is served on all parties
and a copy of the notice and proof of its service is filed in the
family law case.








Disposal of exhibits before final disposition




(16)

After giving notice of the intended destruction or disposition of an
exhibit under subrule (15) a registrar may,




(a)

if, within 30 days after the date of the notice, a person applies to
the registrar for a return of the exhibit, return the exhibit to the
party who introduced it or to such other person as the parties may
agree or the court may order, or




(b)

if no such application is made and if none of the parties comply with
subrule (15) (b) within 30 days after the date of the notice, destroy
or otherwise dispose of the exhibit with the approval of the Deputy
Attorney General.







If exhibit disposed of



(17)

If an exhibit is disposed of under subrule (14) or (16) (b),




(a)

any money received as a result of the disposition must be paid to the
Minister of Finance, and




(b)

the exhibit list must be endorsed to indicate the date and method of
disposition and the amount of any money recovered.







If exhibit destroyed



(18)

If an exhibit is destroyed under subrule (14) or (16) (b), the exhibit
list must be endorsed to indicate the date and method of destruction.



Adverse Witnesses






"Adverse party" defined



(19)

For the purpose of subrules (19) to (22),
"adverse party"
means a party who is adverse in interest.







Adverse witness



(20)

Subrules (21) to (24) apply if a party wishes to call as a witness at
the trial




(a)

an adverse party, or




(b)

a person who, at the time the notice referred to in subrule (21) is
served, is a director, officer, partner, employee or agent of an
adverse party.







Notice to call adverse witness



(21)

If a party wishes to call as a witness a person referred to in subrule
(20) (a) or (b), the party must serve on the adverse party a notice in
Form F49 together with proper witness fees at least 7 days before the
date on which the attendance of the intended witness is required.







Exceptions



(22)

Despite subrule (21), a party may




(a)

call as a witness, without payment of witness fees or previous notice,
a person referred to in subrule (20) (a) or (b) if the person called
is in attendance at the trial, or




(b)

subpoena a person referred to in subrule (20) (a) or (b).







Application to set notice aside



(23)

The court may set aside a notice served under subrule (21) on the
grounds that




(a)

the adverse party is unable to procure the attendance of the person
named in the notice,




(b)

the evidence of the person is unnecessary,




(c)

it would work a hardship on the person or the adverse party to require
the person to attend the trial, or




(d)

the person named in the notice is not a person referred to in subrule
(20) (a) or (b).







Court may make order



(24)

On an application under subrule (23), the court may make any order it
considers will further the object of these Supreme Court Family Rules,
including, without limitation, an order adjourning the trial.







Refusal to comply with notice



(25)

If a person called as a witness in accordance with subrule (21) or
(22) refuses or neglects to attend at the trial, to be sworn or to
affirm, to answer a proper question put to the person or to produce a
document that the person is required to produce, the court may do one
or more of the following:




(a)

grant judgment in favour of the party who called the witness;




(b)

adjourn the trial;




(c)

make an order as to costs;




(d)

make any other order it considers will further the object of these
Supreme Court Family Rules.








Adverse party as witness may be cross-examined




(26)

If, in accordance with subrule (21) or (22), a party calls as a
witness a person referred to in subrule (20) (a) or (b), the following
apply:




(a)

the party calling the witness is entitled to cross-examine the witness
generally on one or more issues;




(b)

the adverse party must not cross-examine the witness except to obtain
an explanation of matters brought out in the examination-in-chief;




(c)

other parties may cross-examine the witness generally on one or more
issues, as the court may direct;




(d)

the party calling the witness must not re-examine the witness except
in relation to new matters brought out in cross-examination.



Rules Applicable to All Witnesses






Witness to testify orally



(27)

Subject to any enactment and these Supreme Court Family Rules,




(a)

a witness at a trial of a family law case must testify in open court,
and




(b)

unless the parties otherwise agree, the witness must testify orally.








Witness must be listed in witness list




(28)

Unless the court otherwise orders, a party must not, at trial, lead
evidence from a witness unless that witness is listed in the witness
list set out in a party's trial brief.

[am. B.C. Reg. 149/2022, Sch. 2, s. 1.]






Examination of witnesses



(29)

The court may permit a party




(a)

to examine a witness, either generally or with respect to one or more
issues,




(i)

by the use of leading questions,




(ii)

by referring the witness to a prior statement made by the witness,
whether or not made under oath,




(iii)

respecting the interest of the witness, if any, in the outcome of the
family law case, or




(iv)

respecting any relationship or connection between the witness and a
party, or




(b)

to cross-examine a witness, either generally or with respect to one or
more issues.







Any party may contradict testimony



(30)

A party may contradict or impeach the testimony of any witness.







Party may prepare and serve subpoena



(31)

A party may prepare a subpoena and serve it on any person.







Form of subpoena



(32)

A subpoena must be in Form F23 and may contain any number of names.







Subpoena not to be filed or sealed



(33)

A subpoena need not be filed in or bear the seal of the court.







Service of subpoena



(34)

A subpoena must be served and, if an affidavit is filed for the
purpose of proving the service, the affidavit must state when, where,
how and by whom service was effected.







Fees to accompany subpoena



(35)

A person served with a subpoena is entitled to tender of the proper
fees at the time of service.








Production of documents and physical objects




(36)

A party, by subpoena in Form F23, may require any person other than a
party or a representative of a party to bring to the trial




(a)

any document in the person's possession or control relating to the
matters in question in the family law case, without the necessity of
identifying the document, and




(b)

any physical object in the person's possession or control that the
party contemplates introducing at the trial as an exhibit, but the
subpoena must identify the object to be brought.








Order for attendance of witness in custody




(37)

The court may order the attendance of a witness who is in the lawful
custody of another person, including the custodian of a penal
institution.








Failure of witness to attend or remain in attendance




(38)

On proof




(a)

of the service of a subpoena on a witness who fails to attend or to
remain in attendance in accordance with the requirements of the
subpoena,




(b)

that proper witness fees have been paid or tendered to that witness,
and




(c)

that the presence of that witness is material to the ends of justice,


the court, by its warrant in Form F50 directed to a sheriff or other
officer of the court or to a peace officer, may cause that witness to
be apprehended and promptly brought before the court and to be
detained in custody or released on terms the court may order, and the
court may order that witness to pay the costs arising from his or her
failure to attend or to remain in attendance.







Order setting aside subpoena



(39)

A person who has been served with a subpoena may apply to the court
for an order setting aside the subpoena on the grounds that compliance
with it is unnecessary or that it would work a hardship on the person,
and the court may make any order, as to postponement of the trial or
otherwise, it considers will further the object of these Supreme Court
Family Rules.



Deposition Evidence






Use of deposition evidence



(40)

A transcript or video recording of a deposition under Rule 9-7 may be
given in evidence at the trial by any party and, even though the
deposition of a witness has or may be given in evidence, the witness
may be called to testify orally at the trial.







Use of videotape or film



(41)

If a video recording of a deposition is given in evidence under
subrule (40) of this rule, a transcript of the deposition may also be
given.







Certified transcript



(42)

If a transcript of a deposition is certified as an accurate
transcription by the person taking the deposition, the transcript may
be introduced in evidence without proof of the signature of that
person.








Video recording of deposition evidence




(43)

A video recording of a deposition may be introduced in evidence
without proof of its accuracy or completeness, but the court may order
an investigation to verify the accuracy or completeness of the video
recording.








Video recording of evidence becomes exhibit




(44)

A video recording of a deposition introduced in evidence becomes an
exhibit at the trial.







Deposition to be given in full



(45)

If a transcript or video recording of a deposition is given in
evidence,




(a)

subrule (56) applies, and




(b)

the deposition must be presented in full, unless otherwise agreed by
the parties or ordered by the court.



Evidence from Examinations for Discovery







Persons against whom discovery evidence is admissible




(46)

If otherwise admissible, the evidence given on an examination for
discovery by a party or by a person examined under Rule 9-2 (5) to (9)
may be introduced in evidence at trial by any party adverse in
interest, unless the court otherwise orders, but the evidence is
admissible against the following persons only:




(a)

the adverse party who was examined;




(b)

the adverse party whose status as a party entitled the examining party
to conduct the examination under Rule 9-2 (5) to (9).







Notice required of evidence



(47)

If a person examined for discovery was, at the time of the
examination, a former director, officer, employee, agent or external
auditor of a party, any part of his or her evidence may be introduced
at trial if notice has been served on all parties at least 14 days
before trial specifying the part of the evidence intended to be given
at trial.







Attendance at trial may be required



(48)

Any party may require the attendance at trial of a person whose
evidence taken on examination for discovery is intended to be
introduced under subrule (47), and, if the evidence is introduced, all
parties may cross-examine that person.







Court may consider whole examination



(49)

If part of an examination for discovery is introduced in evidence, the
court may review the whole of that examination and if, following the
review, the court considers that another part of the examination is
closely connected with the part introduced in evidence, it may direct
that the other part be introduced as evidence.








Discovery evidence of person under disability




(50)

If, at the time of an examination for discovery, the person examined
was an infant or a mentally incompetent person, the examination must
not be introduced in evidence unless the trial judge, at the time the
evidence is introduced, determines that the person, at the time of the
examination, was competent to give evidence.







Transcripts of discovery evidence



(51)

If a transcript of an examination for discovery is certified as an
accurate transcription by the official reporter, the transcript may be
introduced in evidence without proof of the reporter's signature.



Pre-trial Examinations







Use of pre-trial examination of a witness




(52)

A party may introduce in evidence at the trial all or part of the
examination of a person taken under Rule 9-4




(a)

to contradict or impeach the testimony of the person at trial, or




(b)

if it is necessary in the interests of justice and




(i)

the person is dead,




(ii)

the person is unable to attend and testify because of age, infirmity,
sickness or imprisonment,




(iii)

the person is out of the jurisdiction, or




(iv)

the person's attendance cannot be secured by subpoena.








Court may consider whole pre-trial examination




(53)

If part of an examination of a person taken under Rule 9-4 is
introduced in evidence, the court may review the whole of that
examination and if, following the review, the court considers that
another part of the examination is so closely connected with the part
introduced in evidence that the last mentioned part ought not to be
used without the other part, it may direct that the other part be
introduced as evidence.



Transcripts and Interrogatories







Use of transcript of other proceedings




(54)

If a witness is dead, or is unable to attend and testify because of
age, infirmity, sickness or imprisonment or is out of the jurisdiction
or his or her attendance cannot be secured by subpoena, the court may
permit a transcript of any evidence of that witness taken in any
proceeding, hearing or inquiry at which the evidence was taken under
oath, whether or not involving the same parties, to be put in as
evidence, but reasonable notice must be given of the intention to give
that evidence.







Transcript for the court



(55)

In a family law case in which evidence or argument is taken down by an
official reporter or is recorded digitally or on audio tape, it is the
duty of the claimant, if required by the court, to furnish the court
with a certified transcript of the evidence or argument or any portion
of it, the costs of which form part of the costs of the family law
case, but if payment of the costs of providing a transcript would be a
hardship on a party, the court may order that the transcript be
prepared at the expense of the government.








Objection to transcript evidence at trial




(56)

At a trial, a party may object to the admissibility of any question
and answer in a transcript or video recording introduced in evidence,
although no objection was taken at the examination.







Custody of transcripts



(57)

If a transcript is made of a deposition examination, examination for
discovery or pre-trial examination of a witness, the party at whose
instance the examination was held must keep the original transcript
unmarked and must have it available at the trial.







Use of interrogatories at trial



(58)

At the trial of a family law case, a party may give in evidence an
answer, or part of an answer, to interrogatories, but the court may
look at the whole of the answers and, if it is of the opinion that any
other answer or part of an answer is so connected with an answer or
part of it given in evidence that the one ought not to be used without
the other, it may direct that the other answer or part of it be put in
as evidence.



Evidence Given by Affidavit






Affidavit evidence



(59)

On the application of a party at or before trial, a judge or associate
judge may order that the evidence in chief of a witness may be given
by affidavit.

[am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3, s. 5.]






Copy of affidavit must be furnished



(60)

A party seeking to introduce evidence by affidavit must serve a copy
of the affidavit on all parties at least 28 days, or such lesser
period as may be ordered by the court, before the application referred
to in subrule (59).







Cross-examination



(61)

If a copy of an affidavit of a witness is served under subrule (60),
any party may, unless the court otherwise orders, require the witness
to be called for cross-examination at trial, provided that that party
gives to the party seeking to introduce the evidence by affidavit
notice of the requirement within 14 days after receiving the
affidavit.








Court may extend or abridge time to require witness attendance




(62)

If a copy of an affidavit is served under subrule (60) less than 28
days before the application referred to in subrule (59), the court may
extend or abridge the time referred to in subrule (61) within which
parties may require the attendance of the witness at trial for
cross-examination.







Contents



(63)

The person swearing or affirming an affidavit referred to in subrule
(59) may state only what he or she would be permitted to state were
the evidence to be given orally.







Cross-examination not limited



(64)

Cross-examination under subrule (61) or (62) is not confined to
matters contained in the affidavit.







Costs where attendance unnecessary



(65)

If a witness has been required to give evidence under subrule (61) or
(62), and the court is of the opinion that the evidence obtained does
not materially add to the information in the affidavit furnished under
subrule (60), the court may order the party that required the
attendance of the witness to pay, as costs, an amount the court
considers appropriate.



Trial Procedures






Trial with assessor



(66)

The court may at any time order a trial to be heard wholly or
partially by the court sitting with an assessor, and the court may fix
the remuneration for the assessor and the remuneration forms part of
the costs of the family law case.







Trial of one question before others



(67)

The court may order that one or more questions of fact or law arising
in a family law case be tried and determined before the others.







Trial by different modes of trial



(68)

The court may order that different questions of fact arising in a
family law case be tried by different modes of trial.








Calculation of amount by officer of the court




(69)

In a family law case in which it appears that the amount to be
recovered is substantially a matter of calculation, the court may
direct an inquiry, assessment or accounting under Rule 18-1.







Use of recording device



(70)

If authorized by the court to do so, a party may use a recording
device to record evidence.







Evidence of particular facts



(71)

At or before a trial, the court may order that evidence of a fact or
document may be presented at the trial in any manner, including




(a)

by statement on oath of information and belief,




(b)

by documents or entries in books,




(c)

by copies of documents or entries in books, or




(d)

by a specified publication that contains a statement of that fact.







Order of speeches



(72)

Addresses to the court must be as follows:




(a)

the party on whom the onus of proof lies may open his or her case
before giving evidence;




(b)

at the close of the case of the party who began, the opposite party,
if that party announces his or her intention to give evidence, may
open his or her case;




(c)

at the close of all of the evidence, the party who began may address
the court, and the opposite party may then address the court and the
party who began may then reply and the court may allow the opposite
party to be heard in response to a point raised in the reply;




(d)

if a respondent claims relief against another respondent, that
respondent may address the court after that other respondent;




(e)

if a party is represented by a lawyer, the rights conferred by this
rule must be exercised by the party's lawyer.








Court may make order respecting submissions




(73)

At or before a trial, the court may make one or both of the following
orders in respect of a party's submissions to the court at the trial:




(a)

an order that all or any part of the submissions be in writing;




(b)

an order that all or any part of the submissions be of limited length.







Clerk to note time of trial



(74)

On each day of a trial, the clerk must record the following:




(a)

the time the trial begins and ends;




(b)

the name of each witness;




(c)

the time the witness' evidence begins and ends.



Failure to Attend







Failure of all parties to appear at trial




(75)

Without limiting any other power of the court under these Supreme
Court Family Rules, if no party is in attendance when the trial of a
family law case is called, the family law case must be struck off the
trial list unless the court otherwise orders.








Failure of one party to appear at trial




(76)

If a party is not in attendance when the trial of a family law case is
called, the court may proceed with the trial, including hearing a
counterclaim, in the absence of that party.







Court may set aside judgment



(77)

The court may set aside a verdict or judgment obtained if a party does
not attend the trial.




Part 15 — Court Orders and Their Enforcement



Rule 15-1 — Orders






Form of order



(1)

Unless these Supreme Court Family Rules otherwise provide, an order
must be in the following form:




(a)

if the order is a final order,




(i)

in Form F33 if the order changes, suspends or terminates a final order
and is made by consent,




(ii)

in Form F51 if the order changes, suspends or terminates a final order
and is not made by consent,




(iii)

in Form F34 if the order is made under Rule 10-8 without notice and
without a hearing, or




(iv)

in Form F52 in any other case;




(b)

if the order is not a final order and is made without a hearing and by
consent, in Form F33;




(c)

if the order is not a final order and is made under Rule 10-8 without
notice and without a hearing, in Form F34;




(d)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 20 (b).]




(d.1)

if the order is a protection order under section 183 of the

Family Law Act

, in Form F54;




(d.2)

if the order terminates a protection order under section 187 of the

Family Law Act

, in Form F54.1;




(d.3)

if the order is a restraining order under section 46 of the

Family Maintenance Enforcement Act

, in Form F54.2;




(d.4)

if the order is made under Rule 7-1 (15) at a judicial case
conference, in Form F51.1;




(d.5)

if the order is made under Rule 14-3 (9) at a trial management
conference, in Form F51.2;




(e)

for any order not referred to in paragraph (a), (b), (c), (d.1),
(d.2), (d.3), (d.4) or (d.5), in Form F51.


[en. B.C. Reg. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 19; am. B.C. Regs. 133/2012, s. 20
(a) and (b); 104/2015, s. 1 (a); 149/2022, Sch. 2, s. 2; 176/2023,
Sch. 2, s. 18.]








Protection orders and restraining orders




(2)

A protection order under section 183 or 187 of the

Family Law Act

, or a restraining order under section 46 of the

Family Maintenance Enforcement Act

, must not include any provisions respecting matters that are not
directly related to the matters set out in those sections.

[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 20 (c).]







What happens if protection order is made




(2.1)

If the court makes a protection order under section 183 of the

Family Law Act

, the registrar must, as soon as possible,




(a)

provide a copy to the protection order registry,




(b)

arrange service on, or provide a copy to, the party against whom the
protection order is made, as follows:




(i)

if that party is present when the order is made, provide the party
with the protection order;




(ii)

if that party is not present when the order is made, arrange for the
personal service of the protection order on that party within British
Columbia;




(iii)

if the registry is unable to arrange service under subparagraph (ii)
or that party is evading service, notify the person who applied for
the order of that fact and that the person is now responsible for
service, and




(c)

provide a copy to the person who applied for the order.

[en. B.C. Reg. 149/2022, Sch. 2, s. 3.]






Information for service



(2.2)

If a party against whom a protection order is made is not present when
the order is made, the party who applied for the order must provide
the registry with information about the location of the party against
whom the order is made for the purposes of the registry arranging
service under subrule (2.1) (b) (ii).

[en. B.C. Reg. 149/2022, Sch. 2, s. 3.]






Court to make new protection order



(2.3)

If the court changes a term or condition of an existing protection
order, including by extending the term of the protection order, the
court must terminate the existing protection order and make a new
protection order.

[en. B.C. Reg. 149/2022, Sch. 2, s. 3.]







What happens if protection order is terminated




(2.4)

If the court terminates a protection order, the registrar must, as
soon as possible, provide a copy of the termination order to the
protection order registry and to all parties.

[en. B.C. Reg. 149/2022, Sch. 2, s. 3.]






Drawing and approving orders



(3)

An order of the court




(a)

subject to subrules (16) and (16.1), may be drawn up by any party,




(b)

subject to subrules (3.3) and (4) and paragraph (c) of this subrule,
must, unless the court otherwise orders or the order is one referred
to in subrule (1) (d.1), (d.2) or (d.3), be approved in writing by all
parties or their lawyers,




(c)

need not be approved by a party who has not consented to it and who
did not attend or was not represented at the trial or hearing
following which the order was made, and




(d)

after approval under this rule, must be left with a registrar to have
the seal of the court affixed.


[am. B.C. Regs. 121/2014, s. 9; 104/2015, s. 1 (b); 149/2022, Sch. 2,
s. 4.]








Service of order drawn up by party and signing instructions




(3.1)

If an order of the court must be approved in writing by a party or the
party's lawyer, the party who draws up the order must serve the order
on that party along with signing instructions in Form F32.1.

[en. B.C. Reg. 149/2022, Sch. 2, s. 5.]







Time limit for approving or objecting to order drawn up by party




(3.2)

A party who is served with an order under subrule (3.1) or the party's
lawyer must, within 14 days after being served,




(a)

if the party or lawyer approves the terms of the order, sign the order
and return it to the party who drew up the order, or




(b)

if the party or lawyer disagrees with the accuracy of the terms of the
order, deliver to the party who drew up the order a written objection
that sets out in detail the reasons why the terms of the order are not
accurate.

[en. B.C. Reg. 149/2022, Sch. 2, s. 5.]







Approval not required after non-compliance




(3.3)

If a party who is served with an order under subrule (3.1) or the
party's lawyer does not return the approved order or deliver a written
objection within the time limit set out in subrule (3.2), the order
need not be approved by that party or that party's lawyer.

[en. B.C. Reg. 149/2022, Sch. 2, s. 5.]






Entry of order after non-compliance



(3.4)

The registrar may enter an order that has not been approved by a party
or the party's lawyer if the party who drew up the order files




(a)

proof of service on the party of the order and the signing
instructions referred to in subrule (3.1),




(b)

proof that the party who was served with the order or that party's
lawyer did not return the approved order, or deliver a written
objection, within the time limit set out in subrule (3.2), and




(c)

a requisition in Form F17 requesting entry of the order.

[en. B.C. Reg. 149/2022, Sch. 2, s. 5.]






When approval in writing not required



(4)

If an order is signed or initialled by the presiding judge or
associate judge, that order need not be approved in writing by a
lawyer or by a party.

[am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3, s. 5.]







Endorsement of order on application sufficient in certain cases




(5)

If an order has been made substantially in the same terms as
requested, and if the court endorses the notice of application,
petition or other document to show that the order has been made or
made with any variations or additional terms shown in the endorsement,
it is not necessary to draw up the order, but the endorsed document
must be filed.








Order granted conditionally on document to be filed




(6)

If an order may be entered on the filing of a document, the party
seeking entry of the order must file the document when leaving the
draft order with a registrar, and the registrar must examine the
document and, if satisfied that it is sufficient, must enter the order
accordingly.







Waiver of order obtained on condition



(7)

If a person who has obtained an order on condition does not comply
with the condition, the person is deemed to have abandoned the order
so far as it is beneficial to the person and, unless the court
otherwise orders, any other person interested in the family law case
may take either the steps the order may warrant or the steps that
might have been taken if the order had not been made.







Order of judge or associate judge



(8)

An order of a single judge or associate judge is an order of the
court.

[am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3, s. 5.]






Date of order



(9)

An order




(a)

must be dated as of the date on which it was pronounced or, if made by
a registrar, as of the date on which it is signed by the registrar,
and




(b)

unless the court otherwise orders, takes effect on the day of its
date.







Approval of order



(10)

An order may be approved by any judge.







Requirement of consent order



(11)

A consent order must not be entered unless the consent of each party
affected by the order is signified as follows:




(a)

if the party is represented by a lawyer, by the signature of the
lawyer;




(b)

if the party is not represented by a lawyer,




(i)

by the oral consent of the party who attends before the court or a
registrar, or




(ii)

by the written consent of the party.







Settlement of orders



(12)

An order must be settled, when necessary, by a registrar, who may
refer the draft to the judge or associate judge who made the order.

[am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3, s. 5.]






Appointment to settle



(13)

A party may file an appointment in Form F55 to settle an order and
must, at least one day before the time fixed by the appointment, serve
on all parties whose approval of the order is required under subrule
(3) the following documents:




(a)

a copy of the filed appointment;




(b)

the draft order;




(c)

any written objections to the draft order that have been delivered to
the party.

[en. B.C. Reg. 149/2022, Sch. 2, s. 6.]







Party failing to attend on appointment to settle




(14)

If a party fails to attend at the time appointed for the settlement of
an order, a registrar may settle the order in the party's absence.







Review of settlement



(15)

The court may review and vary the order as settled.







Registrar may draw order



(16)

The court may direct a registrar to draw up and enter an order.







Order must be drawn up by registrar



(16.1)

Unless the court otherwise orders, an order referred to in subrule (1)
(d.1) or (d.2) must be drawn up and entered by a registrar.

[en. B.C. Reg. 104/2015, s. 1 (c).]







Special directions for entry or service




(17)

The court may give special directions respecting the entry or service
of an order.







Correction of orders



(18)

The court may at any time correct a clerical mistake in an order or an
error arising in an order from an accidental slip or omission, or may
amend an order to provide for any matter that should have been but was
not adjudicated on.








Opinions, advice and directions of the court




(19)

The opinion, advice or direction of the court must be entered in the
same manner as an order of the court and is to be termed a "judicial
opinion", "judicial advice" or "judicial direction", as the case may
require.







Orders on terms and conditions



(20)

When making an order under these Supreme Court Family Rules, the court
may impose terms and conditions and give directions it considers will
further the object of these Supreme Court Family Rules.




Rule 15-2 — Divorce Orders







Civil Marriage Act
(Canada)




(0.1)

This rule does not apply to a divorce under Part 2 of the

Civil Marriage Act

(Canada).

[en. B.C. Reg. 4/2016, s. 2.]






Ongoing prior proceedings



(1)

A divorce order must not be granted unless the court is satisfied that
no earlier divorce proceeding is ongoing anywhere in Canada.








Claim for divorce joined with other claims




(2)

If a claim is made for divorce together with one or more other claims,
the court may do one or more of the following:




(a)

grant a divorce and direct that an order for divorce alone be entered;




(b)

adjourn the hearing of the claim for divorce;




(c)

grant judgment on the other claims and direct that a separate order
dealing with them be entered;




(d)

adjourn the hearing of the other claims.




[Rule 15-1 (1) (a) (iv) provides that the form of a divorce order must
be in Form F52.]







Form of certificate of divorce



(3)

The certificate of divorce referred to in section 12 (7) of the

Divorce Act

must be in Form F56 and may be signed and issued by the registrar.







Service of divorce order



(4)

Unless the court otherwise orders, a party who has submitted for entry
an order for divorce must, promptly after the order is entered,




(a)

serve a copy of the entered order on each of the parties who has an
address for service, and




(b)

if any of the parties does not have an address for service, mail a
copy of the entered order to that party's last known address.




Rule 15-2.1 — Guardianship Orders






Guardianship affidavit required



(1)

When an order is sought appointing a person as the guardian of one or
more children, the applicant must




(a)

file with the court an affidavit in Form F101 that complies with
subrule (4) and serve a copy of that filed affidavit on the other
parties and on any other person who may be affected by the orders
sought, and




(b)

provide to the court any other evidence the court considers necessary.



[A person who is a guardian within the meaning of section 39 of the

Family Law Act

does not need to apply for guardianship and does not need to file
the Form F101 affidavit referred to above.]


[en. B.C. Reg. 41/2013, s. 8.]






Interim order may be made



(2)

The court may make an interim order for guardianship without an
affidavit in Form F101 having been filed if the court is satisfied
that it is in the best interests of the child that an interim
guardianship order be made before that affidavit is filed.

[en. B.C. Reg. 41/2013, s. 8.]






Duration of interim order



(3)

An interim order under subrule (2) must expire within 90 days after
the date of pronouncement unless renewed by the court.

[en. B.C. Reg. 41/2013, s. 8.]






Currency of information



(4)

Unless the court otherwise orders,




(a)

an affidavit referred to in subrule (1) must be sworn or affirmed




(i)

not more than 28 days before the date set for the hearing at which the
order referred to in that subrule is sought, or




(ii)

if the order is sought without a hearing, not more than 7 days before
the date on which the materials in support of the application are
filed, and




(b)

any records check, criminal records check or protection order records
check attached as an exhibit to the affidavit must be dated




(i)

not more than 60 days before the date set for the hearing at which the
order referred to in subrule (1) is sought, or




(ii)

if the order is sought without a hearing, not more than 60 days before
the date on which the materials in support of the application are
filed.

[en. B.C. Reg. 41/2013, s. 8.]







Materials required if hearing adjourned




(5)

Unless the court otherwise orders, if the swearing or affirmation of,
and the date of the record checks exhibited to, a Form F101 affidavit
referred to in subrule (1) are in compliance with the requirements of
subrule (4) (a) (i) and (b) (i), as those requirements relate to the
date originally set for the hearing at which the order referred to in
subrule (1) is sought, the following apply if that hearing is
adjourned:




(a)

if the hearing is adjourned to a date that is not more than 14 days
after the date originally set for the hearing, the following apply:




(i)

if there has been no material change in any of the information
contained in the Form F101 affidavit, the applicant may rely on that
affidavit whether or not it complies with the requirements of subrule
(4) (a) (i) and (b) (i) in relation to the new date set for the
hearing;




(ii)

if there has been a material change in any of the information
contained in the Form F101 affidavit, the applicant must promptly file
a new affidavit setting out the material change and serve a copy of
that filed new affidavit on each of the parties and on every other
person who may be affected by the orders sought;




(b)

if the hearing is adjourned to a date that is more than 14 days after
but not more than 6 months after the date originally set for the
hearing, the applicant must, at least 7 days before the new date set
for the hearing,




(i)

if there has been no material change in any of the information
contained in the Form F101 affidavit, file a new affidavit confirming
that fact and serve a copy of that filed new affidavit on each of the
parties and on every other person who may be affected by the orders
sought, or




(ii)

if there has been a material change in any of the information
contained in the Form F101 affidavit, file a new affidavit setting out
the material change and serve a copy of that filed new affidavit on
each of the parties and on every other person who may be affected by
the orders sought;




(c)

if the hearing is adjourned to a date that is more than 6 months after
the date originally set for the hearing, the applicant must, at least
14 days before the new date set for the hearing, file a new affidavit
in Form F101 that complies with the requirements of subrule (4) (a)
(i) and (b) (i) in relation to the new date set for the hearing and
serve a copy of that filed new affidavit on each of the parties and on
every other person who may be affected by the orders sought.

[en. B.C. Reg. 41/2013, s. 8.]



Rule 15-2.2 — Orders for Corollary Relief in Divorce Proceedings






Definition



(1)

In this rule,
"corollary relief proceeding"
means a proceeding in which either or both former spouses are seeking
any of the following orders under the

Divorce Act

:




(a)

a child support order;




(b)

a spousal support order;




(c)

a parenting order.

[en. B.C. Reg. 208/2020, s. 4.]







Party to corollary relief proceeding must provide information




(2)

Each party to a corollary relief proceeding must file a statement of
information for corollary relief proceedings in Form F102 before
a child support order, spousal support order or parenting order is
made.

[en. B.C. Reg. 208/2020, s. 4.]






Duty to maintain accurate information



(3)

If a party to a corollary relief proceeding has filed Form F102
and the information contained in the form is no longer accurate, the
party must file a new Form F102 that contains accurate
information before a child support order, spousal support order or
parenting order is made.

[en. B.C. Reg. 208/2020, s. 4.]







Court not restricted if form not filed




(4)

Nothing in subrule (2) or (3) restricts the court from making an order
in a corollary relief proceeding if a Form F102 has not been
filed.

[en. B.C. Reg. 208/2020, s. 4.]



Rule 15-2.3 — Orders Under Part 1 of the
Family Orders and Agreements Enforcement Assistance Act
(Canada)






Materials required for application



(1)

An application under section 7 of the

Family Orders and Agreements Enforcement Assistance Act

(Canada) must meet the requirements of section 8 or 9 of that Act, as
the case may be, including, in the case of an application made by an
individual without notice, the requirement that the application be
accompanied by




(a)

the results of a recent criminal record check in respect of the
individual, and




(b)

an affidavit that meets the requirements of section 8 (1) (a), (2) and
(3) (b) or 9 (1) (a), (2) and (3) (b) of that Act.

[en. B.C. Reg. 219/2023, Sch. 1, s. 2.]






Court may consider specified matters



(2)

On an application under section 7 of the

Family Orders and Agreements Enforcement Assistance Act

(Canada) for an order under section 10 of that Act, the court may
consider the following:




(a)

in the case of an application made by an individual without notice,
whether or not to make an order under section 11 of that Act requiring
that the federal minister not send to the person referred to in
section 8 (2) (a) or 9 (2) (a) of that Act, as the case may be, a copy
of the order that authorizes the making of the application and a
notice informing the person that information will be released;




(b)

in the case of an application that is in relation to the establishment
or variation of a support provision or enforcement of a family
provision, as those terms are defined in that Act,




(i)

whether or not to authorize, without further order of the court, the
disclosure under section 13 (3) of that Act of any information
received by the court as a result of the order to the parties or any
other person, service or body or official of the court that it
considers appropriate, and




(ii)

if disclosure of information is authorized, whether or not to make an
order under section 13 (3) of that Act to protect the confidentiality
of the information.

[en. B.C. Reg. 219/2023, Sch. 1, s. 2.]







Court may order that service or order not required




(3)

Despite Rule 10-9 (7), in the case of an application under section 7
of the

Family Orders and Agreements Enforcement Assistance Act

(Canada) that is made by an individual without notice, the court may
order that the requirement under Rule 10-9 (7) to serve the materials
referred to in that provision does not apply.

[en. B.C. Reg. 219/2023, Sch. 1, s. 2.]



Rule 15-3 — Extra-Provincial Orders






Repealed



(1)-(3)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 208/2020, s. 5.]







Registration of orders



(4)

If an order that has legal effect throughout Canada under section 20
(2) of the

Divorce Act

is made by a court other than the Supreme Court, the order may be
registered without fee by filing a certified copy of the order in the
Victoria Registry of the Supreme Court.



[Section 20 of the

Divorce Act

refers to any order for support or custody made under that Act.]








Exchange of orders between provinces



(5)

The registrar of the court must, on request or if the court is
required to do so by section 17 (11) of the

Divorce Act

, and without a fee, send a certified copy of a support order,
parenting order, contact order or change order made by the court




(a)

to the registrar of a court in another province or to any person
holding an equivalent position to that of registrar in relation to
that court,




(b)

to a public welfare organization in another province, or




(c)

to any person designated by the Attorney General of another province.

[am. B.C. Reg. 208/2020, s. 6.]






Enforcement in Provincial Court



(6)

A support order made by the court or registered under subrule (4) may
be filed in and enforced by the Provincial Court as if it were
contained in an order of that court made under the

Family Law Act

.

[am. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 5.]



Rule 15-4 — Enforcement of Orders






Order to pay money to a person



(1)

An order for the payment of money to a person may be enforced by writ
of seizure and sale in Form F57.







Order to pay money into court



(2)

An order for the payment of money into court may be enforced by writ
of sequestration in Form F58.








Order for recovery or delivery of land




(3)

An order for the recovery or the delivery of the possession of land
may be enforced by writ of possession in Form F59.








Order for recovery or delivery of property other than land




(4)

An order for the recovery or the delivery of the possession of any
property other than land or money may be enforced by writ of delivery
in Form F60 or F61or by writ of sequestration in Form F58.







Appointment of receiver



(5)

An order may be enforced by the appointment of a receiver under Rule
12-2.








Execution by or against person not a party




(6)

A person not a party to a family law case, who obtains an order or in
whose favour an order is made, may enforce the order in the same
manner as if the person were a party to the family law case, and an
order that may be enforced against a person not a party to a family
law case may be enforced against that person as if he or she were a
party to the family law case.








Remedy on non-compliance with mandatory order




(7)

If a mandatory order or an order for the specific performance of a
contract is not obeyed, the court, in addition to or instead of
proceeding against the disobedient person for contempt, may direct
that the act required to be done may be done so far as is practicable
by the person who obtained the order, or by some other person
appointed by the court, at the expense of the disobedient person, and
on the act being done, the expenses incurred may be ascertained in
such manner as the court may direct, and execution may issue for the
amount so ascertained and costs.








Issue of execution on conditional order




(8)

If an order is to the effect that a person is entitled to relief
subject to or on compliance with a condition or the happening of a
contingency, the person so entitled, after compliance with the
condition or the happening of the contingency, and after demand is
made on the person against whom he or she is entitled to relief, may
apply to the court for leave to issue execution.







Order when right to relief has arisen



(9)

The court, if satisfied that the right to relief referred to in
subrule (8) has arisen, may




(a)

order that execution issue, or




(b)

direct that any issue or question necessary for the determination of
the rights of the persons be tried.








Issue of execution on change of parties




(10)

If a change has taken place, by death or otherwise, in the persons
entitled or liable to execution, the person claiming to be entitled to
execution may apply to the court for leave to issue execution, and the
court may order




(a)

that execution may issue, or




(b)

that any issue or question necessary to determine the rights of the
person be tried.







Production of order before execution



(11)

A writ of execution must not issue without the production to the
registry of a copy of the order on which the writ is to issue.







Endorsement of writ



(12)

A writ of execution must be endorsed with the name and address of the
lawyer or person causing it to be issued.








Issue of writ of sequestration, possession or delivery




(13)

A writ of sequestration, a writ of possession or a writ of delivery
must not be issued unless there has been filed proof satisfactory to a
registrar that,




(a)

in the case of an order, the order sought to be enforced




(i)

has been served on the person against whom the order is sought to be
enforced, and




(ii)

has not been complied with, or




(b)

in the case of a document, issued under an enactment, that on being
filed in the court may be enforced as if it were an order of the
court, the document




(i)

has been filed in the court,




(ii)

has, before or after being filed in the court, been served in
accordance with the enactment or these Supreme Court Family Rules on
the person against whom the order is sought to be enforced, and




(iii)

has not been complied with.








Issue of writ of execution if order to pay money within a period




(14)

If the order sought to be enforced is for the payment of money within
a specified period, a writ of execution must not be issued until the
expiration of the period.







Issue of writ of execution



(15)

Subject to these Supreme Court Family Rules or an order of the court,
a writ of execution may be issued by a registrar at any time during
the lifetime of the order sought to be enforced.







When writ of execution is issued



(16)

A writ of execution must be prepared by the person seeking to enforce
the order or by the person's lawyer, must be sealed by a registrar and
is, after that, deemed to be issued.








Copy of writ of execution must be left with registry




(17)

The person seeking to enforce the order or the person's lawyer, on
presenting a writ of execution for sealing, must provide a copy of the
writ of execution to the registry.







Term of writ of execution



(18)

A writ of execution, if unexecuted, remains in force for one year
only, unless renewed.







Renewal of writ of execution



(19)

At any time before the expiration of a writ of execution, or a renewed
writ of execution, the writ of execution may, on the application of
the party issuing the writ of execution, be renewed for a one year
period beginning on the date of the renewal.







Hearing of writ of execution



(20)

An application to renew a writ of execution may be heard by




(a)

the court, or




(b)

a registrar designated by the Chief Justice.







Writ of execution to be endorsed



(21)

A renewed writ of execution must be endorsed, by the court or a
registrar, with the date of the order granting renewal and the date of
the renewal.







Enforcement costs



(22)

Unless the court otherwise orders, a party who is entitled to enforce
an order is entitled to the costs, fees and expenses of enforcement
including proceedings under the

Court Order Enforcement Act

, this rule and Rules 15-6 and 15-7.







Registrar may fix amount



(23)

Subject to subrule (24) of this rule, if these Supreme Court Family
Rules provide or some other enactment provides that enforcement costs
may be included in the amount endorsed on any writ of execution, a
registrar may fix the amount to be endorsed on the writ of execution.







Assessments and accounting



(24)

If a judgment debtor alleges that he or she has satisfied an order for
the payment of money or otherwise, whether or not the costs of
enforcement and interest on those costs have been paid,




(a)

either the judgment creditor or the judgment debtor may apply to have
the costs of enforcement assessed before a registrar, and Rule 16-1
applies, or




(b)

the judgment debtor may apply to the registrar for an accounting.







Registrar may certify on accounting



(25)

On an accounting referred to in subrule (24) (b) of this rule, Rule
18-1 applies and a registrar may certify one or more of the following:




(a)

the amount, if any, then due to the judgment creditor;




(b)

the amount, if any, then due to the judgment debtor as a result of an
overpayment;




(c)

that the judgment has been paid.







Certificate of same effect as order



(26)

A certificate under subrule (25) (c) of this rule has the same effect
as if it were an order under subrule (30).







Separate writs for costs



(27)

On an order granting relief and costs, there may be, at the election
of the person entitled, either one writ of execution or separate writs
of execution for the relief granted and for the recovery of the costs.








Judgment for recovery of property other than land




(28)

If an order for the recovery of property other than land or money is
to be enforced by writ of delivery, the court may, on the application
of the judgment holder,




(a)

order that execution issue for the delivery of the property without
giving the other party the option of retaining the property on paying
the assessed value, and




(b)

if the property cannot be found, and unless the court otherwise
orders, order that the sheriff take possession of all the other
party's lands, goods and chattels




(i)

until the other party delivers the property, or




(ii)

at the option of the judgment holder, until the sheriff realizes from
the other party's goods and chattels the assessed value of the
property.







Acknowledgment of payment



(29)

A debtor may require, as a condition of paying a money judgment, that
the judgment creditor promptly execute, file and serve an
acknowledgment of payment in Form F62.







Order that judgment has been paid



(30)

If a judgment debtor claims to have paid the judgment but has not
obtained an acknowledgment of payment from the judgment creditor, the
debtor may apply to the court for an order certifying that the
judgment has been paid.







Stay of execution



(31)

The court may, at or after the time of making an order,




(a)

stay the execution of the order until such time as it thinks fit, or




(b)

provide that an order for the payment of money be payable by
instalments.








Balance becomes payable if instalment not paid when due




(32)

Unless the court in an order under subrule (31) (b) otherwise
provides, if an instalment is not paid by the time fixed for payment,
the balance of the money remaining unpaid under the order is, at that
time, due and payable without notice being given to the judgment
debtor.







Application for relief



(33)

Without limiting subrule (31), a party against whom an order has been
made may apply to the court for a stay of execution or other relief on
grounds with respect to which the supporting facts arose too late for
them to be pleaded, and the court may give relief it considers will
further the object of these Supreme Court Family Rules.







Application for directions



(34)

A sheriff, judgment creditor or judgment debtor may apply to the court
for directions under Rule 15-8 concerning the sale of any property
taken in execution.







Enforcement of certificate



(35)

If a certificate under Rule 16-1 (25), 16-2 (7) or 18-1 (2) has been
filed, it may be enforced as if it were an order of the court.


[en. B.C. Reg. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 20; am. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 21,
as en. by B.C. Reg. 67/2013, s. 1 (e).]




Rule 15-5 — Compelling a Debtor under the
Family Maintenance Enforcement Act
to Appear in Court







Summons under the
Family Maintenance Enforcement Act




(1)

A summons under section 19 or 22 of the

Family Maintenance Enforcement Act

requiring a debtor to appear at a default hearing or a show cause
hearing must be in Form F63.








Committal summons under the
Family Maintenance Enforcement Act




(2)

A summons under section 23 of the

Family Maintenance Enforcement Act

requiring a debtor to appear at a committal hearing must be in Form
F64.







Arrest warrants



(3)

An arrest warrant under the

Family Maintenance Enforcement Act

must be in Form F65.




Rule 15-6 — Subpoena to Debtor






Subpoena to debtor



(1)

A creditor who has obtained an order of the court for the recovery or
payment of money or costs or both may issue out of the registry a
subpoena in Form F66 on filing an affidavit showing that the order is
not satisfied and that no writ of execution issued by the creditor is
outstanding against the debtor.







To whom subpoena must be directed



(2)

A subpoena issued under subrule (1) must be directed,




(a)

if the debtor is an individual, to the debtor,




(b)

if the debtor is a corporation, to an officer or director of the
debtor, or




(c)

if the debtor is a partnership or firm, to a person liable to
execution on an order against the debtor.







Service of subpoena



(3)

A subpoena issued under subrule (1) must be served at least 7 days
before the date of the examination under subrule (4), and with the
subpoena must be tendered any expenses the person served would be
entitled to were he or she required to attend the court as a witness.







Examination of debtor



(4)

The examination referred to in a subpoena issued under subrule (1)
must take place before an examiner and must be on oath as to the
following matters:




(a)

the income and property of the debtor;




(b)

the debts owed to and by the debtor;




(c)

the disposal the debtor has made of any property;




(d)

the means the debtor has, or has had, or in future may have, of
satisfying the order.







Examiner



(5)

The examiner must be




(a)

the court,




(b)

an associate judge, or




(c)

a registrar designated as an examiner by the Chief Justice.

[am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3, s. 1.]






Examination



(6)

At an examination under this rule, the creditor and the person
subpoenaed may, with leave of the examiner, call witnesses who may be
cross-examined.







Adjournment



(7)

The examiner may adjourn an examination under this rule from time to
time.







Debtor refusing to attend or respond



(8)

If the person subpoenaed under subrule (1)




(a)

does not attend as required at the examination under subrule (4) or an
adjournment of it,




(b)

refuses to be sworn or to affirm, or to answer one or more of the
questions put to the person,




(c)

after an order to that effect, refuses or neglects to produce or
permit to be inspected any document or property, or




(d)

does not give answers that are to the satisfaction of the examiner,

then



(e)

if the examiner is an associate judge or registrar,




(i)

in the case of default under paragraph (a), the examiner must make a
report in Form F67 and fix a time and place at which the creditor may
attend before the court, and at that time and place the court may, at
the request of the creditor and without notice to the person
subpoenaed, order




(A)

committal, or




(B)

apprehension under Rule 21-7 (5), and




(ii)

in the case of default under paragraph (b), (c) or (d) of this
subrule, the examiner must make a report in Form F67 and fix a time
and place for the person subpoenaed to attend before the court, and at
that time and place the court may, at the request of the creditor and
without further notice to the person subpoenaed, order




(A)

committal, or




(B)

apprehension under Rule 21-7 (5), or




(f)

if the examiner is the court, the examiner may order committal.

[am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3, s. 1.]






Creditor failing to attend, etc.



(9)

If the creditor who issued a subpoena fails to attend at the
examination under subrule (4), or if the examiner is of the opinion
that the proceedings are unnecessary or vexatious, the examiner may
order the creditor to pay to the person subpoenaed a sum of money by
way of compensation and may order that sum to be paid promptly or to
be set off against the debt.







Debtor unreasonably refusing to pay



(10)

If it appears to the examiner that




(a)

the debtor has, with intent to defraud the creditor, made or caused to
be made any gift, delivery or transfer of property, or has removed or
concealed property,




(b)

the debtor has unreasonably neglected or refused to pay the debt in
whole or in part or to pay any instalment ordered to be paid, or




(c)

the debtor is a corporation and the person subpoenaed has done,
authorized, permitted or acquiesced in an act or omission described in
paragraph (a) or (b),

then



(d)

if the examiner is an associate judge or registrar, the examiner may
make a report of the examiner's findings and fix a time and place for
the person subpoenaed to attend before the court, and at that time and
place the creditor may apply without notice for committal, or




(e)

if the examiner is the court, the examiner may order committal.

[am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 2, s. 1.]






Order for payment



(11)

At an examination under this rule, the examiner may make one or more
of the following orders:




(a)

for the payment of the debt by instalments;




(b)

for the payment of the debt on or before a fixed date;




(c)

varying or rescinding any previous order;




(d)

for payment to be made to a registrar, to the creditor or to the
creditor's lawyer;




(e)

fixing the costs payable by the debtor without assessment,


and if the examiner is an associate judge or registrar, the order has
the effect of an order made by the court and must be entered
accordingly.

[am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3, s. 1.]






Notice of application for committal



(12)

If a debtor fails to pay in accordance with an order made under
subrule (11) by an examiner, the creditor may file a notice of
application for committal in Form F68 on filing an affidavit showing
that the default has occurred, and subrules (2) and (3) apply.







Order for committal



(13)

The court may order committal of a debtor if satisfied that




(a)

the order to pay has not been obeyed,




(b)

the person knew of the order, and




(c)

the person has not shown good cause why an order of committal should
not be made against him or her.







Costs payable by debtor



(14)

The court may fix the costs payable by the debtor without assessment.







Form of order



(15)

An order of committal must be in Form F69 and must commit the person
named in it to prison for a term not exceeding 40 days.







Term of order



(16)

An order of committal must not be enforced after the expiration of one
year after the date the order was made.







Payment to sheriff



(17)

A creditor seeking to enforce an order of committal must pay to the
sheriff for the maintenance of the person committed the sum of $10 per
day for each day of imprisonment by weekly payments of $70 in advance.







Maintenance money recoverable



(18)

The maintenance money paid by a creditor under subrule (17) is a
disbursement recoverable by the creditor from the debtor as costs of
execution, without order.







Debtor to be brought before court



(19)

Subject to subrule (21), a sheriff or peace officer executing an order
of committal must promptly bring the person arrested before the court,
and the person arrested may be examined by the court, and if the court
considers that imprisonment is not appropriate, the court may stay
execution of the order of committal and, in that event, must




(a)

fix a time and place for a hearing to determine whether or not the
order of committal should be set aside or varied, and




(b)

give directions for notice of that hearing to be given to the
creditor.








Application to set aside or vary order




(20)

A person who is the subject of an order of committal may apply to the
court to set aside or vary the order, and the court may order a stay
of execution of the order pending the hearing of the application and
give directions for service of notice of the hearing.







Payment of debt



(21)

A person who is the subject of an order of committal may pay the
amount payable endorsed on the order either to a registrar or to the
sheriff, peace officer or warden in whose custody he or she is.







Receipt for payment



(22)

On payment under subrule (21) to a registrar of the amount payable,
the registrar must issue a receipt to that effect.







Release from custody



(23)

On payment under subrule (21) to any of them of the amount payable or
on being shown a registrar's receipt to that effect, a sheriff, peace
officer or warden must release the person committed from custody and
must endorse the order accordingly and return it to the registry.







Payment to creditor



(24)

All money received under this rule must be paid promptly to the
creditor.







Requisition for discharge



(25)

A creditor who has obtained an order of committal may file in the
registry a requisition in Form F17 requesting discharge of the person
committed, and a registrar must endorse the requisition and a copy
with the words "This is your authority to discharge
...................[
name
].............................. from custody" above the registrar's
signature, and, on being shown the copy of the requisition, a sheriff,
peace officer or warden must release the person committed from custody
and must endorse the order accordingly and return it to the registry.







Failure to pay sheriff



(26)

A sheriff who has not received maintenance money as provided in
subrule (17) must,




(a)

if the person committed is in the sheriff's custody, release the
person committed, or




(b)

if the person committed is in the warden's custody, notify the warden,
who must release the person committed,


and each must endorse the order accordingly and return it to the
registry.







Liability imposed by order



(27)

Imprisonment under these Supreme Court Family Rules does not
extinguish the liability imposed by an order.







Repealed



(28)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 21.]




Rule 15-7 — Examinations in Aid of Execution






Definitions



(1)

In this rule:



"judgment creditor"

means a person entitled to enforce an order of the court, whether for
payment of money or otherwise;



"judgment debtor"

means a person against whom the order may be enforced.







Examination of judgment debtor



(2)

If a judgment creditor is entitled to issue execution on or otherwise
enforce an order of the court, the judgment creditor may examine the
judgment debtor for discovery as to




(a)

any matter pertinent to the enforcement of the order,




(b)

the reason for nonpayment or nonperformance of the order,




(c)

the income and property of the judgment debtor,




(d)

the debts owed to and by the judgment debtor,




(e)

the disposal the judgment debtor has made of any property either
before or after the making of the order,




(f)

the means the judgment debtor has, or has had, or in future may have,
of satisfying the order, and




(g)

whether the judgment debtor intends to obey the order or has any
reason for not doing so.








Examination of corporate, partnership or firm judgment debtor




(3)

An officer or director of a corporate judgment debtor, or a person
liable to execution on the order in the case of a partnership or firm
judgment debtor, may, without an order, be examined for discovery on
the matters set out in subrule (2).







Limitation



(4)

Unless the court otherwise orders, a person examined under subrule (2)
or (3) must not be further examined in the same family law case for a
year.








Examination of person other than judgment debtor




(5)

On being satisfied that any other person may have knowledge of the
matters set out in subrule (2), the court may order that other person
to be examined for discovery concerning the person's knowledge.

[am. B.C. Reg. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 22.]






Order in certain cases



(6)

If a difficulty arises in or about the execution or enforcement of an
order, the court may make any order for the attendance and examination
of a party or person it considers will further the object of these
Supreme Court Family Rules.








Application of examination for discovery rules




(7)

Rule 9-2 (4), (5), (10), (11), (12) (a) and (b), (13) and (15) to (24)
applies to an examination under this rule.







Use of examination



(8)

Any part of an examination for discovery under this rule may be given
in evidence in the same or any subsequent proceeding between the
parties to the proceeding or between the judgment creditor and the
person examined for discovery.







Costs



(9)

Unless the court otherwise orders, the party conducting an examination
under this rule is entitled to recover the costs of the examination
from the judgment debtor.




Rule 15-8 — Sales by the Court






Court may order sale



(1)

If in a family law case it appears necessary or expedient that
property be sold, the court may order the sale and may order a person
in possession of the property or in receipt of the rents, profits or
income from it to join in the sale and transfer of the property and
deliver up the possession or receipt to the purchaser or person
designated by the court.







Conduct of sale



(2)

If an order is made directing property to be sold, the court may
permit any person having the conduct of the sale to sell the property
in the manner the person considers appropriate or as the court
directs.







Directions for sale



(3)

The court may give directions for the purpose of effecting a sale,
including directions




(a)

appointing the person who is to have conduct of the sale,




(b)

fixing the manner of sale, whether by contract conditional on the
approval of the court, private negotiation, public auction, sheriff's
sale, tender or some other manner,




(c)

fixing a reserve or minimum price,




(d)

defining the rights of a person to bid, make offers or meet bids,




(e)

requiring payment of the purchase price into court or to trustees or
to other persons,




(f)

settling the particulars or conditions of sale,




(g)

obtaining evidence of the value of the property,




(h)

fixing the remuneration to be paid to the person having conduct of the
sale and any commission, costs or expenses resulting from the sale,




(i)

that any conveyance or other document necessary to complete the sale
be executed on behalf of any person by a person designated by the
court, and




(j)

authorizing a person to enter on any land or building.







Application for directions



(4)

A person having conduct of a sale may apply to the court for further
directions.







Certificate of sale



(5)

The result of a sale by order of the court must be certified in Form
F70 by the person having conduct of the sale and that certificate must
be filed promptly after completion of the sale.







Vesting order



(6)

The person having conduct of the sale may apply to the court for a
vesting order in favour of a purchaser.




Part 16 — Costs



Rule 16-1 — Costs






Tariff of costs



(1)

If costs are payable to a party under these Supreme Court Family Rules
or by order, those costs must be assessed in accordance with Appendix
B unless any of the following circumstances exist:




(a)

the parties consent to the amount of costs and file a certificate of
costs or expenses setting out that amount;




(b)

the court orders that




(i)

the costs of the family law case be assessed as special costs, or




(ii)

the costs of an application, a step or any other matter in the family
law case be assessed as special costs in which event costs in relation
to all other applications, steps and matters in the family law case
must be determined and assessed under this rule in accordance with
this subrule;




(c)

the court awards lump sum costs for the family law case and fixes
those costs under subrule (14) in an amount the court considers
appropriate;




(d)

the court awards lump sum costs in relation to an application, a step
or any other matter in the family law case and fixes those costs under
subrule (14), in which event costs in relation to all other
applications, steps and matters in the family law case must be
determined and assessed under this rule in accordance with this
subrule.

[am. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 22 (a).]






Assessment of special costs



(2)

On an assessment of special costs, a registrar must




(a)

allow those fees that were proper or reasonably necessary to conduct
the family law case, and




(b)

consider all of the circumstances, including the following:




(i)

the complexity of the family law case and the difficulty or the
novelty of the issues involved;




(ii)

the skill, specialized knowledge and responsibility required of the
lawyer;




(iii)

the amount involved in the family law case;




(iv)

the time reasonably spent in conducting the family law case;




(v)

the conduct of any party that tended to shorten, or to unnecessarily
lengthen, the duration of the family law case;




(vi)

the importance of the family law case to the party whose bill is being
assessed, and the result obtained;




(vii)

the benefit to the party whose bill is being assessed of the services
rendered by the lawyer;




(viii)

Rule 1-3.







Assessment officer



(3)

The officer before whom costs are assessed is a registrar.







Disbursements



(4)

When assessing costs under subrule (1) or (2) of this rule, a
registrar must




(a)

determine which disbursements have been necessarily or properly
incurred in the conduct of the family law case, and




(b)

allow a reasonable amount for those disbursements.







Directions



(5)

If the court has made an order for costs,




(a)

any party may, at any time before a registrar issues a certificate
under subrule (25), apply for directions to the judge or associate
judge who made the order for costs,




(b)

the judge or associate judge may direct that any item of costs,
including any item of disbursements, be allowed or disallowed, and




(c)

the registrar is bound by any direction given by the judge or
associate judge.

[am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3, s. 5.]







Tax in respect of legal services and disbursements




(6)

If tax is payable by a party in respect of legal services or
disbursements, a registrar must, on an assessment under subrule (1) or
(2), allow an additional amount to compensate for that tax as follows:




(a)

if the tax is payable in respect of legal services, the additional
amount to compensate for the tax must be determined by multiplying the
percentage rate of the tax by the amount of costs allowed;




(b)

if the tax is payable in respect of disbursements, the additional
amount to compensate for the tax must be determined by multiplying the
percentage rate of the tax by the monetary value of the disbursements
as assessed.







Costs to follow event



(7)

Subject to subrule (9), costs of a family law case must be awarded to
the successful party unless the court otherwise orders.








Costs where party represented by an employee




(8)

A party is not disentitled to costs merely because the party's lawyer
is an employee of the party.







Costs of applications



(9)

Unless the court hearing an application otherwise orders,




(a)

if the application is granted, the party who brought the application
is entitled to costs of the application if that party is awarded costs
at trial or at the hearing of the petition, but the party opposing the
application, if any, is not entitled to costs even though that party
is awarded costs at trial or at the hearing of the petition, and




(b)

if the application is refused, the party who brought the application
is not entitled to costs of the application even though that party is
awarded costs at trial or at the hearing of the petition, but the
party opposing the application, if any, is entitled to costs if that
party is awarded costs at trial or at the hearing of the petition.







When costs payable



(10)

If an entitlement to costs arises during a family law case, whether as
a result of an order or otherwise, those costs are payable on the
conclusion of the family law case unless the court otherwise orders.







Costs of hearing fees



(11)

If the court orders that the parties bear their own costs, the hearing
fees are to be shared equally between the parties unless the court
otherwise orders or the parties otherwise agree.







Obligation to pay unaffected



(12)

Nothing in subrule (11) removes from the party who filed the notice of
trial the obligation to pay the hearing fees to the registry.








Costs arising from improper act or omission




(13)

If anything is done or omitted improperly or unnecessarily, by or on
behalf of a party, the court or a registrar may order




(a)

that any costs arising from or associated with any matter related to
the act or omission not be allowed to the party, or




(b)

that the party pay the costs incurred by any other party by reason of
the act or omission.








Costs of whole or part of family law case




(14)

The court may award costs




(a)

of a family law case,




(b)

that relate to some particular application, step or matter in or
related to the family law case, or




(c)

except so far as they relate to some particular application, step or
matter in or related to the family law case


and in awarding those costs the court may fix the amount of costs,
including the amount of disbursements.







Costs payable from estate or property



(15)

If it is ordered that any costs are to be paid out of an estate or
property, the court may direct out of what portion of the estate or
property the costs are to be paid.







Set-off of costs



(16)

If a party entitled to receive costs is liable to pay costs to another
party, a registrar may assess the costs the party is liable to pay and
may adjust them by way of deduction or set-off or may delay the
allowance of the costs the party is entitled to receive until the
party has paid or tendered the costs the party is liable to pay.








Costs of one respondent payable by another




(17)

If the costs of one respondent against a claimant ought to be paid by
another respondent, the court may order payment to be made by one
respondent to the other directly, or may order the claimant to pay the
costs of the successful respondent and allow the claimant to include
those costs as a disbursement in the costs payable to the claimant by
the unsuccessful respondent.







Unnecessary expense after judgment



(18)

If after pronouncement of judgment a party puts another party to
unnecessary proceedings or expense, a registrar, in assessing the
costs of the family law case, may award costs as the registrar
considers appropriate against the offending party except in relation
to anything for which expenses have been ordered.

[am. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 22 (b).]






Form of bill of costs



(19)

A bill of costs must be in Form F71.







Appointment to assess costs



(20)

A person who seeks to have costs assessed must




(a)

obtain a date for an appointment before a registrar,




(b)

file an appointment in Form F55 to which is attached the bill of costs
to be assessed, and




(c)

at least 5 days before the date of the appointment, serve a copy of
the filed Form F55 appointment and any affidavit in support in
accordance with subrule (24).







Place for assessment



(21)

An appointment for assessment of costs must be taken out at the
registry at which the proceeding is being conducted or at any other
registry to which the parties to the appointment may agree.







Further particulars



(22)

A registrar may order further particulars or details of a bill of
costs being assessed.







Assessment of sheriff's fees



(23)

If a sheriff who has charged fees for services set out in Schedule 2
of Appendix C or a person affected by those fees wishes to have those
fees assessed, the person seeking the assessment must




(a)

obtain an appointment from a registrar in Form F55 and attach to that
appointment a copy of the bill to be assessed, if available, and




(b)

at least 5 days before the assessment, serve a copy of the appointment
and any affidavit in support on all persons affected by the fees.







Service of appointment



(24)

A person seeking an assessment of costs must serve an appointment in
Form F55 to which is attached the bill of costs, and any affidavit in
support, on




(a)

the person against whom costs are to be assessed, and




(b)

every other person whose interest, whether in a fund or estate or
otherwise, may be affected.







Certificate of costs or expenses



(25)

On the conclusion of an assessment of costs, or if the party charged
has consented to the amount, a registrar must, either by endorsing the
original bill or by issuing a certificate of costs or expenses in Form
F72, certify the amount of costs awarded, and the party assessing
costs must file the certificate.

[am. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 22 (c).]






Review of an assessment



(26)

A party who is dissatisfied with a decision of a registrar on an
assessment of costs may, within 14 days after the registrar has
certified the costs, apply to the court for a review of the
assessment.







Form of bill in certain cases



(27)

A bill for special costs may be rendered on a lump sum basis.







Description of services



(28)

A lump sum bill must contain a description of the nature of the
services and of the matter involved as would, in the opinion of a
registrar, afford any lawyer sufficient information to advise a client
on the reasonableness of the charge made.







Evidence of lawyer



(29)

A party to an assessment of costs may put in evidence the opinion of a
lawyer as to the nature and importance of the services rendered and of
the matter involved and the reasonableness of the charges made, but a
party must not put in evidence the opinions of more than 2 lawyers,
and a lawyer giving an opinion may be required to attend for
examination and cross-examination.







Disallowance of fees and costs



(30)

If the court considers that a party's lawyer has caused costs to be
incurred without reasonable cause, or has caused costs to be wasted
through delay, neglect or some other fault, the court may do any one
or more of the following:




(a)

disallow any fees and disbursements between the lawyer and the
lawyer's client or, if those fees or disbursements have been paid,
order that the lawyer repay some or all of them to the client;




(b)

order that the lawyer indemnify his or her client for all or part of
any costs that the client has been ordered to pay to another party;




(c)

order that the lawyer be personally liable for all or part of any
costs that his or her client has been ordered to pay to another party;




(d)

make any other order that the court considers will further the object
of these Supreme Court Family Rules.








Costs may be ordered without assessment




(31)

If the court makes an order under subrule (30), the court may




(a)

direct a registrar to conduct an inquiry and file a report with
recommendations as to the amount of costs, or




(b)

subject to subrule (34), fix the costs with or without reference to
the tariff in Appendix B.







Notice



(32)

An order against a lawyer under subrule (30) or (31) must not be made
unless the lawyer is present or has been given notice.







Order to be served



(33)

A lawyer against whom an order under subrule (30) or (31) has been
made must promptly serve a copy of the entered order on his or her
client.







Limitation



(34)

An order by the court under subrule (31) (b) in respect of the costs
of an application must not exceed $1 000.








Refusal or neglect to procure assessment




(35)

If a party entitled to costs fails to assess costs and prejudices
another party by failing to do so, a registrar may certify the costs
of the other party and certify the failure and disallow all costs of
the party in default.







Referrals



(36)

Unless the court otherwise orders, fees to lawyers, accountants,
engineers, actuaries, valuators, merchants and other scientific
persons to whom any matter or question is referred by the court must
be determined by a registrar, subject to an appeal to the court.




Rule 16-2 — Assessment of Expenses






Expenses to be assessed



(1)

If, under section 212 (2), 213 (2) (d) (i), 214 (4), 221 (2) (c) (i),
228 (1) (c) (i) or 230 (2) (b) (i) of the

Family Law Act

, the court orders that expenses be paid to a person,




(a)

the parties may consent to the amount of expenses and file a
certificate of costs or expenses in Form F72 setting out that amount,




(b)

the court may award lump sum expenses and fix that lump sum in an
amount the court considers appropriate, or




(c)

if paragraphs (a) and (b) do not apply, those expenses must be
assessed in accordance with this rule.

[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 23.]






Assessment officer



(2)

The officer before whom expenses are assessed is a registrar.

[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 23.]






Directions



(3)

If the court makes an order for expenses,




(a)

any party may, at any time before a registrar issues a certificate
under subrule (7), apply for directions to the judge or associate
judge who made the order for expenses,




(b)

the judge or associate judge may direct that any item be allowed or
disallowed as an expense, and




(c)

the registrar is bound by any direction given by the judge or
associate judge.


[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 23; am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3, s. 5.]







Appointment to assess expenses



(4)

A person who seeks to have expenses assessed must




(a)

obtain a date for an appointment before a registrar,




(b)

file an appointment in Form F55 to which is attached the list of
expenses in Form F71.1, and




(c)

at least 5 days before the date of the appointment, serve a copy of
the filed Form F55 appointment, to which is attached the list of
expenses, and any affidavit in support on




(i)

the person against whom expenses are to be assessed, and




(ii)

every other person whose interest, whether in a fund or estate or
otherwise, may be affected.

[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 23.]






Place for assessment



(5)

An appointment for assessment of expenses must be taken out at the
registry at which the proceeding is being conducted or at any other
registry to which the parties to the appointment may agree.

[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 23.]






Further particulars



(6)

A registrar may order further particulars or details of a list of
expenses being assessed.

[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 23.]






Certificate of costs or expenses



(7)

On the conclusion of an assessment of expenses, or if the party
charged has consented to the amount, a registrar must, by issuing a
certificate of costs or expenses in Form F72, certify the amount of
expenses awarded, and the party assessing expenses must file the
certificate.

[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 23.]






Review of an assessment



(8)

A party who is dissatisfied with a decision of a registrar on an
assessment of expenses may, within 14 days after the registrar has
certified the expenses, apply to the court for a review of the
assessment.

[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 23.]






When expenses payable



(9)

Unless the court otherwise orders, if the court makes an order for
expenses, those expenses are payable promptly after the later of




(a)

the date on which a certificate for those expenses is filed under this
rule, and




(b)

if a review is requested under subrule (8), the date on which the
amount of the expenses to be paid is confirmed by that review.

[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 23.]






No costs if expenses ordered



(10)

If expenses are ordered in relation to a step or matter in the family
law case, costs are not to be assessed in relation to that same step
or matter.

[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 23.]



Part 17 — Petition Proceedings



Rule 17-1 — Petitions






Definitions



(1)

In this rule,
"petition respondent"
means a person who files a response to petition under subrule (4).







Petitions



(2)

A person wishing to bring a family law case referred to in Rule 3-1
(3) or (4) (b) by filing a petition must file a petition in Form F73
and each affidavit in support.



Usual Procedure






Service



(3)

Unless these Supreme Court Family Rules otherwise provide or the court
otherwise orders, a copy of the filed petition and of each filed
affidavit in support must be served by personal service on all persons
whose interests may be affected by the order sought.







Response to petition



(4)

A person who has been served with a copy of a filed petition under
subrule (3) of this rule must, if the person wishes to receive notice
of the time and date of the hearing of the petition, do the following:




(a)

file a response to petition in accordance with subrule (5);




(b)

file, with the response to petition, all affidavits that have not
already been filed and on which the person intends to rely at the
hearing of the petition;




(c)

unless the court otherwise orders, serve on the petitioner 2 copies,
and on every other party one copy, of each document filed under
paragraph (a) or (b) as follows:




(i)

if the petition respondent was served with the petition anywhere in
Canada, within 21 days after that service;




(ii)

if the petition respondent was served with the petition anywhere in
the United States of America, within 35 days after that service;




(iii)

if the petition respondent was served with the petition anywhere else,
within 49 days after that service.

[am. B.C. Reg. 95/2011, Sch. B, s. 3 (a).]






Contents of response to petition



(5)

A response to petition must be in Form F74 and must




(a)

indicate, for each order sought, whether the petition respondent
consents to, opposes or takes no position on the order, and




(b)

if the petition respondent wishes to oppose any of the relief sought
in the petition,




(i)

briefly summarize the factual and legal bases on which the orders
sought should not be granted,




(ii)

list the affidavits and other documents on which the petition
respondent intends to rely at the hearing of the petition, and




(iii)

set out the petition respondent's estimate of the time the petition
will take for hearing.







Petitioner may respond



(6)

A petitioner may file affidavits in response to any document served on
the petitioner under subrule (4) (c), and, in that event, must serve
copies of those filed responding affidavits on each petition
respondent no later than the date on which the notice of hearing is
served on that petition respondent under subrule (8) (b).







Expert opinion evidence



(6.1)

Unless the court otherwise orders, a party may tender a report setting
out the opinion of an expert if




(a)

the report conforms with Rule 13-6 (1), or




(b)

the court orders that the report is admissible even though it does not
conform with Rule 13-6 (1).

[en. B.C. Reg. 149/2022, Sch. 2, s. 7.]






Service of expert reports



(6.2)

Unless the court otherwise orders, expert reports must be served as
follows:




(a)

a petitioner must, at the same time that a copy of the filed petition
is served on a person under subrule (3), serve on the person a copy of
each expert report in support along with written notice that the
expert report is being served under this rule;




(b)

a petition respondent must, within 42 days after being served with a
copy of the filed petition under subrule (3), serve on the petitioner
and every other party a copy of each expert report of the petition
respondent along with written notice that the expert report is being
served under this rule;




(c)

a party must, within 49 days after being served with an expert report
under paragraph (b), serve on every other party a copy of the serving
party's responding expert reports, if any, along with written notice
that the expert reports are being served under this rule.

[en. B.C. Reg. 149/2022, Sch. 2, s. 7.]






Application of Rule 13-6



(6.3)

Rule 13-6 (2) applies to a petition proceeding.

[en. B.C. Reg. 149/2022, Sch. 2, s. 7.]






No additional affidavits



(7)

Unless all parties consent or the court otherwise orders, a party must
not serve any affidavits additional to those served under subrules
(3), (4) and (6).

[am. B.C. Reg. 149/2022, Sch. 2, s. 8.]






Setting application for hearing



(8)

A petitioner wishing to set a petition down for hearing must,




(a)

in the case of a petition to which no response to petition has been
served under subrule (4) (c), file a notice of hearing in Form F75 at
any time before the hearing of the petition, or




(b)

in the case of a petition to which a response to petition has been
filed and served under subrule (4) (c), file a notice of hearing in
Form F75, and serve a copy of the filed notice of hearing on each
petition respondent, at least 7 days before the date set for the
hearing of the petition.







Date and time of hearing



(9)

The hearing of a petition must be set for 9:45 a.m. on a date on which
the court hears petitions or at such other time or date as has been
fixed by the court or a registrar.








Date and time if hearing time more than 2 hours




(10)

If the estimate, set out in the petition, of the time that the hearing
of the petition will take is more than 2 hours, the date and time of
hearing must be fixed by a registrar.

[am. B.C. Reg. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 23 (a).]






Petition record



(11)

Subject to subrule (13), the petitioner must provide to the registry
where the hearing is to take place a petition record as follows:




(a)

the petition record must be in a ring binder or in some other form of
secure binding;




(b)

the petition record must contain, in consecutively numbered pages, or
separated by tabs, the following documents in the following order:




(i)

a title page bearing the style of proceeding and the names of the
lawyers, if any, for the petitioner and the petition respondents;




(ii)

an index;




(iii)

a copy of the filed petition;




(iv)

a copy of each filed response to petition;




(v)

a copy of each filed affidavit that is to be referred to at the
hearing;




(vi)

the most current Form F102 statement of information for corollary
relief proceedings, if any, filed by each party in accordance with
Rule 15-2.2;




(c)

the petition record may contain




(i)

a draft of the proposed order,




(ii)

a written argument,




(iii)

a list of authorities, and




(iv)

a draft bill of costs;




(d)

the petition record must not contain




(i)

affidavits of service,




(ii)

copies of authorities, including case law, legislation, legal articles
or excerpts from text books, or




(iii)

any other documents unless they are included with the consent of all
the parties;




(e)

the petition record must be provided to the registry




(i)

no earlier than 9 a.m. on the business day that is three full business
days before the date set for the hearing and no later than 4 p.m.
on the business day that is one full business day before the date set
for the hearing, or




(ii)

if an earlier date is fixed by a registrar, on or before that date.


[am. B.C. Regs. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 23 (b) and (c); 176/2023, Sch. 2,
s. 19 (a) to (c).]







Additional copy of filed petition



(11.1)

The petitioner must, concurrently with the filing of the petition
record under subrule (11), provide to the registry a copy of the filed
petition that




(a)

is kept separate from the ring binder or other form of secure binding
referred to in subrule (11) (a), and




(b)

clearly indicates the orders sought by way of highlighting or other
marking of the relevant paragraphs of Part 1 of the copy of the filed
petition.

[en. B.C. Reg. 239/2023, Sch. 2, s. 4.]







Petition to be removed from hearing list




(11.2)

Unless the court otherwise orders, if the petitioner fails to provide
a petition record to the registry in accordance with subrule (11), the
petition must be removed from the hearing list.

[en. B.C. Reg. 239/2023, Sch. 2, s. 4.]






Service of petition record



(12)

The petitioner must serve a copy of the petition record index on each
petition respondent no later than 4 p.m. on the business day that
is one full business day before the date set for the hearing.


[am. B.C. Regs. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 23 (d); 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 19
(d).]








If petition respondent's application is to be heard at the hearing




(13)

If a petition respondent intends to set an application for hearing at
the same time as the hearing of the petition, the parties must, so far
as is possible, prepare and file a joint petition record and agree to
a date for the hearing of both applications.







Petition record to be returned



(14)

Unless the court otherwise orders, the applicant must retrieve the
petition record




(a)

at the conclusion of the hearing, or




(b)

if the hearing of the petition is adjourned to a date later than the
following court day, after the hearing is adjourned.

[am. B.C. Reg. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 23 (e).]







Petition record to be returned to registry




(15)

If the petition record has been retrieved by the petitioner under
subrule (14) (b), the petitioner must return the petition record to
the registry between 9:00 a.m. on the second court day before, and 4
p.m. on the business day that is one full business day before, the new
date set for the hearing of the petition.


[am. B.C. Regs. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 9; 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 19 (d).]







Provision of amended petition record



(16)

If any additional affidavits are filed and served under subrule (7),
the petitioner must provide to the registry an amended petition record
containing those affidavits.







Resetting adjourned hearings



(16.1)

To reset the hearing of a petition that has been adjourned without a
date being set for it to be heard ("adjourned generally") or that has
been removed from the hearing list under subrule (11.2), the
petitioner must




(a)

file a requisition in Form F17 setting out the following:




(i)

the date and time of the hearing of the petition;




(ii)

the date the petition was filed;




(iii)

a brief description of the orders sought;




(iv)

the petitioner's estimate of the time the petition will take for
hearing;




(v)

whether the orders sought are within the jurisdiction of an associate
judge, and




(b)

serve a copy of the filed requisition on the petition respondents at
least 2 days before the date set for the hearing.


[en. B.C. Reg. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 23 (f); am. B.C. Regs. 239/2023,
Sch. 2, s. 5; 277/2023, Sch. 3, s. 1.]








Petition respondent may apply for directions




(17)

If the petitioner does not




(a)

set the petition for hearing within a reasonable time after being
requested to do so by a petition respondent, or




(b)

after the hearing of the petition has been adjourned generally, reset
the petition for hearing within a reasonable time after being
requested to do so by a petition respondent,


a petition respondent may apply, by requisition in Form F17 on 2 days'
notice, for directions.

[en. B.C. Reg. 95/2011, Sch. B, s. 3 (b).]






Powers of court



(18)

Without limiting the court's right under Rule 10-3 (7) (d) to transfer
the family law case referred to in this rule to the trial list, the
court may, whether or not on the application of a party, apply any
other of these Supreme Court Family Rules to a family law case
referred to in this rule.







Amendment of petition



(19)

A party may amend a petition or response to petition filed by the
party




(a)

at any time with leave of the court, and




(b)

subject to Rules 8-2 (7) and (9) and 9-6 (5),




(i)

once without leave of the court, at any time before service of the
notice of hearing, and




(ii)

at any time with the written consent of all the parties,


and for that purpose Rule 8-1 (2) to (7) applies.

[am. B.C. Reg. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 4.]






Renewal of original petition



(20)

An original petition does not remain in force for more than 12 months,
but if a respondent named in a petition has not been served, the
court, on the application of the petitioner made before or after the
expiration of the 12 months, may order that the original petition be
renewed for a period of not more than 12 months.







Further renewal of petition



(21)

If a renewed petition has not been served on a respondent named in the
petition, the court, on the application of the petitioner made during
the currency of the renewed petition, may order the renewal of the
petition for a further period of not more than 12 months.







When renewal period begins



(22)

Unless the court otherwise orders, a renewal period ordered under
subrule (20) or (21) begins on the date of the order.







After renewal of petition



(23)

Unless the court otherwise orders, a copy of each entered order
granting renewal of a petition must be served with the renewed
petition, and the renewed petition remains in force and is available
to prevent the operation of any statutory limitation and for all other
purposes.



Procedure Applicable to Adoptions






Uncontested adoptions



(24)

If, in a family law case in which an order for adoption is sought,
notice of an application for the order for adoption is not required,
the petitioner may make that application by filing




(a)

a requisition in Form F29, and




(b)

a draft of the proposed order in Form F34.







Referral by registrar



(25)

On being satisfied that the materials appropriate for an application
referred to in subrule (24) have been filed in accordance with subrule
(24), a registrar may refer the application to a judge or associate
judge.

[am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3, s. 5.]






Disposition of referred applications



(26)

If an application is referred by a registrar to a judge or associate
judge under subrule (25), the judge or associate judge may




(a)

make the order, or




(b)

give directions respecting the application.

[am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3, s. 5.]



Part 18 — Other Procedures



Rule 18-1 — Inquiries, Assessments and Accounts







Direction for inquiries, assessments or accounts




(1)

At any stage of a family law case, the court may direct that an
inquiry, assessment or accounting be held by an associate judge,
registrar or special referee.

[am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3, s. 1.]






Certificate as to result



(2)

The court may direct that the result of an inquiry, assessment or
accounting be certified by the associate judge, registrar or special
referee and, in that event, the certificate, if filed under subrule
(9), is binding on the parties to the family law case.

[am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3, s. 6.]






Report and recommendation



(3)

If the court does not direct that the result of an inquiry, assessment
or accounting be certified, the result of the inquiry, assessment or
accounting must be stated in the form of a report and recommendation
to the court.








Application to vary or confirm recommendation




(4)

On application by a party, the court may




(a)

vary or confirm the recommendation contained in the report and
recommendation referred to in subrule (3),




(b)

remit the inquiry, assessment or accounting with directions, or




(c)

order that the subject matter of the inquiry, assessment or accounting
be determined as directed by the court.







Time and place of hearing



(5)

An associate judge, registrar or special referee may hold a hearing in
relation to an inquiry, assessment or accounting and, in that event,
may




(a)

hold the hearing at a convenient time and place,




(b)

adjourn the hearing from time to time, and




(c)

administer oaths, take evidence, direct production of documents and
give general directions for the conduct of the hearing.

[am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3, s. 2.]






Appointment



(6)

If a party wishes to proceed with an inquiry, assessment or accounting
directed by the court under subrule (1), the party must




(a)

take out an appointment in Form F55, and




(b)

serve notice of the appointment on all parties or as directed by the
court.







Witnesses



(7)

A party to a family law case in which an inquiry, assessment or
accounting is held may subpoena any person, including a party, to give
evidence at the hearing of the inquiry, assessment or accounting and
to produce documents.








Certificate or recommendation to be filed and served




(8)

An associate judge, registrar or special referee must state the result
of an inquiry, assessment or accounting in the form of a certificate
or a report and recommendation as directed under subrule (2) or (3)
respectively, with or without reasons, and must




(a)

provide the certificate to the party requesting the certificate, or




(b)

file the report and recommendation and provide a copy to all persons
who appeared at the hearing.

[am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3, s. 2.]






Party may file certificate



(9)

A party to whom a certificate is provided under subrule (8) (a) may
file that certificate.







Opinion of the court



(10)

Before the associate judge, registrar or special referee has concluded
a hearing of an inquiry, assessment or accounting, the associate
judge, registrar or special referee may, in a summary or other manner,
ask the opinion of the court on any matter arising in the hearing.

[en. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 2, s. 2.]






Accounts of executor, trustee, etc.



(11)

A person may apply by petition for the furnishing of accounts by the
executor or administrator of an estate, a trustee, a receiver, a
liquidator, a guardian or a partner.







Special directions



(12)

The court may give special directions as to the manner in which an
inquiry, assessment or accounting is to be taken or made, and the
directions may include




(a)

the manner in which the inquiry, assessment or accounting is to be
prosecuted,




(b)

the evidence to be introduced in support,




(c)

the parties required to attend all or any part of the proceedings,




(d)

the time within which each proceeding is to be taken, and




(e)

a direction that persons whose interest can be classified constitute a
class and are to be represented by the same lawyer,


and the court may fix a time for the further attendance of the
parties.







Court may appoint lawyer



(13)

If the court makes a direction under subrule (12) (e) and the persons
cannot agree on the lawyer to represent them, the court may appoint
the lawyer to represent them.







Varying directions



(14)

The court may vary or rescind a direction given under subrule (12).







Account to be verified by affidavit



(15)

If an accounting is directed to be held, unless the court otherwise
orders, the party required to account must make out that party's
account and verify it by an affidavit to which the account must be
exhibited.







Form of account



(16)

If an account is made out under subrule (15), the items on each side
of the account must be numbered consecutively, and the party required
to account must file the affidavit and the account referred to in that
subrule and serve copies of those filed documents on all parties.







Particulars of errors in account



(17)

A party who alleges that there are errors or omissions in an account
must file and serve on all parties a notice of those errors with brief
particulars.







Notice of order



(18)

If the court makes an order directing that an inquiry, assessment or
accounting be held in a proceeding relating to the sale of any
property, the court may direct that notice of the order in Form F76 be
served on any person interested in the property.







Person bound as if party



(19)

Any person served with notice of an order in accordance with subrule
(18) is, subject to subrule (21), bound by the order to the same
extent as the person would have been if the person had originally been
made a party to the family law case.







Dispensing with service



(20)

In any case in which it appears that it is impracticable for any
reason to serve a person with a notice of order under subrule (18),




(a)

the court may dispense with service on the person,




(b)

the court may order that that person be bound by any order made to the
same extent as if the person had been served with notice of the order,
and




(c)

the person referred to in an order under paragraph (b) is bound by the
order to the same extent as if the person had been served with notice
of the order unless the order was obtained by fraud or non-disclosure
of material facts.







Person may apply to vary or rescind



(21)

Within 28 days after service of a notice of order under subrule (18)
on a person, the person may, without becoming a party to the family
law case, apply to the court to vary or rescind the order.







Person may file a notice of interest



(22)

A person served with a notice of order under subrule (18) may, after
filing a notice of interest in Form F77, take part in the family law
case.




Rule 18-2 — Jurisdictional Disputes






Disputed jurisdiction



(1)

A party who has been served with a notice of family claim,
counterclaim or petition in a family law case, whether that service
was effected in or outside British Columbia, may, after filing a
jurisdictional response in Form F78,




(a)

apply to strike out the notice of family claim, counterclaim or
petition or to dismiss or stay the family law case on the ground that
the notice of family claim, counterclaim or petition does not allege
facts that, if true, would establish that the court has jurisdiction
over that party in respect of the claim made against that party in the
family law case,




(b)

apply to dismiss or stay the family law case on the ground that the
court does not have jurisdiction over that party in respect of the
claim made against that party in the family law case, or




(c)

allege in a pleading or in a response to petition that the court does
not have jurisdiction over that party in respect of the claim made
against that party in the family law case.








Order declining jurisdiction may be sought




(2)

Whether or not a party referred to in subrule (1) applies or makes an
allegation under that subrule, the party may apply to court for a stay
of the family law case on the ground that the court ought to decline
to exercise jurisdiction over that party in respect of the claim made
against that party in the family law case.







Disputed pleading or service



(3)

If a party who has been served with an notice of family claim,
counterclaim or petition in a family law case, whether served in or
outside British Columbia, alleges that the notice of family claim,
counterclaim or petition is invalid or has expired or that the
purported service of the notice of family claim, counterclaim or
petition was invalid, the party may, after filing a jurisdictional
response in Form F78, apply for one or both of the following:




(a)

an order setting aside the notice of family claim, counterclaim or
petition;




(b)

an order setting aside service of the notice of family claim,
counterclaim or petition.







Powers of court pending resolution



(4)

If an application is brought under subrule (1) (a) or (b) or (3) or an
issue is raised by an allegation in a pleading or a response to
petition referred to in subrule (1) (c), the court may, on the
application of a party, before deciding the first-mentioned
application or issue,




(a)

stay the family law case,




(b)

give directions for the conduct of the first-mentioned application,




(c)

give directions for the conduct of the family law case, and




(d)

discharge any order previously made in the family law case.







Party does not submit to jurisdiction



(5)

If, within 30 days after filing a jurisdictional response in a family
law case, the filing party serves a notice of application under
subrule (1) (a) or (b) or (3) on the parties or files a pleading or a
response to petition referred to in subrule (1) (c),




(a)

the party does not submit to the jurisdiction of the court in relation
to the family law case merely by filing or serving any or all of the
following:




(i)

the jurisdictional response;




(ii)

a pleading or response to petition under subrule (1) (c);




(iii)

a notice of application and supporting affidavits under subrule (1)
(a) or (b), and




(b)

until the court has decided the application or the issue raised by the
pleading, petition or response to petition, the party may, without
submitting to the jurisdiction of the court,




(i)

apply for, enforce or obey an order of the court, and




(ii)

defend the family law case on its merits.




Rule 18-3 — Appeals






Application



(1)

If an appeal or an application in the nature of an appeal from a
decision, direction or order of any person or body, including the
Provincial Court, is authorized by an enactment to be made to the
court or to a judge, the appeal is governed by this rule to the extent
that this rule is not inconsistent with any procedure provided for in
the enactment.







Form



(2)

An appeal is to be started by filing in a registry a notice of appeal
in Form F79 or Form F80.







Directions



(3)

A notice of appeal must include




(a)

the standard set of directions, in the form directed by the Chief
Justice, governing the conduct of the appeal, or




(b)

an application for directions as to the conduct of the appeal.







Conduct of appeal



(4)

If the notice of appeal includes a standard set of directions under
subrule (3) (a), the appeal must be conducted in accordance with those
directions unless the court otherwise orders.







Application for directions



(5)

Unless the court otherwise directs, an application for directions
under subrule (3) (b) must be set for hearing on a date that is at
least 7 days after the date on which the notice of appeal is served in
accordance with subrule (6).







Service of notice of appeal



(6)

Unless the court otherwise orders, a notice of appeal must be served
on




(a)

the person or body that gave the decision or direction, or made the
order, being appealed, and




(b)

all other persons who may be affected by the order sought.







Powers of court



(7)

The court may give directions for the proper hearing and determination
of an appeal and, without limiting this, may make an order




(a)

that documents, transcripts or minutes be produced,




(b)

that evidence be introduced by way of affidavit, or that it be given
orally,




(c)

that the appeal be determined by way of stated case or argument on a
point of law,




(d)

prescribing time limits for taking steps in and for the hearing of the
appeal, or




(e)

that the appeal be disposed of summarily,


and may exercise any of the powers of the court exercisable in a
petition proceeding.







Filing notice of interest



(8)

A person who intends to oppose an appeal must




(a)

file a notice of interest in Form F77 within the following period:




(i)

if the person was served with the notice of appeal anywhere in Canada,
within 7 days after that service;




(ii)

if the person was served with the notice of appeal anywhere in the
United States of America, within 14 days after that service;




(iii)

if the person was served with the notice of appeal anywhere else,
within 28 days after that service, and




(b)

promptly after filing the notice of interest, serve a copy of the
filed notice of interest on the appellant.

[am. B.C. Reg. 95/2011, Sch. B, s. 4.]






Notice of hearing of appeal



(9)

After obtaining from a registrar a date for the hearing of the appeal,
if the appellant wishes to proceed with the appeal, the appellant must
set the appeal for hearing on that date by




(a)

filing a notice of hearing of appeal in Form F81, and




(b)

serving a copy of the filed notice of hearing of appeal on all
parties.







Notice of abandonment of appeal



(10)

An appellant may abandon an appeal by




(a)

filing a notice of abandonment of appeal in Form F82, and




(b)

serving a copy of the filed notice of abandonment of appeal on all
parties.




Part 19 — Judgments from Other Courts



Rule 19-1 — Canadian Judgments






Definition



(1)

In this rule,
"Canadian judgment"
has the same meaning as in the

Enforcement of Canadian Judgments and Decrees Act

.








Registration requirements for Canadian judgments




(2)

A person wishing to register a Canadian judgment under the

Enforcement of Canadian Judgments and Decrees Act

must, for the purposes of section 3 (1) (b) of that Act, file a
certified English translation of the Canadian judgment if the judgment
was made in a language other than English.




Rule 19-2 — Foreign Judgments






Definitions



(1)

In this rule:


"convention"
means the Convention for the Reciprocal Recognition and Enforcement of
Judgments in Civil and Commercial Matters, the English language
version of which is set out in Schedule 4 of the

Court Order Enforcement Act

;



"reciprocally enforceable judgment"

means a judgment that may be registered under Part 2 or 4 of the

Court Order Enforcement Act

.








Application under
Court Order Enforcement Act




(2)

A family law case to register a reciprocally enforceable judgment must
be started by petition.







Affidavit in support



(3)

The application for registration of a reciprocally enforceable
judgment must be supported by an affidavit




(a)

exhibiting




(i)

a certified copy of the judgment under the seal of the original court,




(ii)

if section 29 (2) of the

Court Order Enforcement Act

applies to the application, the certificate referred to in section 29
(3) of that Act, and




(iii)

a certified translation of the judgment or certificate if made in a
language other than English, and




(b)

stating, to the best of the information and belief of the person
swearing or affirming the affidavit,




(i)

that the judgment creditor is entitled to enforce the judgment,




(ii)

the amount presently owing on the judgment,




(iii)

the full name, occupation and usual or last known residence or place
of business of the judgment creditor and judgment debtor respectively,




(iv)

whether the judgment debtor




(A)

was personally served with the process of the original court,




(B)

was served with the process of the original court other than by
personal service, or




(C)

participated in the proceeding or otherwise submitted to the
jurisdiction of the original court, and




(v)

that the judgment is not one that is disqualified from registration
either under section 29 (6) of the

Court Order Enforcement Act

or under Article II, paragraph 2, or Article IV, paragraph 1, of the
convention, whichever is applicable.








Applications for reciprocal enforcement of judgment




(4)

Notice of an application to register a reciprocally enforceable
judgment need not be given to the judgment debtor if




(a)

the application is made under Part 4 of the

Court Order Enforcement Act

, or




(b)

the application is made under Part 2 of the

Court Order Enforcement Act

and section 29 (2) of that Act applies to the application.







Form of order to register



(5)

The order to register the judgment must be in Form F83.







Notice of registration



(6)

If a reciprocally enforceable judgment is registered, and the judgment
debtor had no notice of the application for registration, notice of
the registration must be given to the judgment debtor within one month
after the registration.








Setting aside registration of judgment under convention




(7)

The court may order that the registration of a judgment under Part 4
of the

Court Order Enforcement Act

be set aside if the judgment debtor was not duly served with the
process of the original court, unless the judgment debtor participated
in the proceeding or otherwise submitted to the jurisdiction of the
original court.







Stay of enforcement



(8)

The court may make an order staying or limiting the enforcement of a
judgment registered under Part 4 of the

Court Order Enforcement Act

, subject to any terms and for any period the court considers
appropriate, if




(a)

the judgment is not final,




(b)

an appeal is pending, or




(c)

the time for appeal has not expired.








Stay of proceeding in family law case on foreign judgment




(9)

A respondent in a family law case on a foreign judgment, whether or
not it is a reciprocally enforceable judgment, on proof that an appeal
or other proceeding in the nature of an appeal is pending or the time
for appeal has not expired, may apply for an order staying the family
law case until the determination of the appeal or other proceeding on
terms that the court may impose.




Part 20 — Special Rules for Certain Parties



Rule 20-1 — Partnerships







Partners may sue or be sued in firm name




(1)

Two or more persons claiming to be entitled, or alleged to be liable,
as partners may sue or be sued in the name of the firm in which they
were partners at the time when the alleged right or liability arose.







Service on firm



(2)

Service is effected on a firm by leaving a copy of the document to be
served with




(a)

a person who was a partner at the time the alleged right or liability
arose, or




(b)

a person at a place of business of the firm who appears to manage or
control the partnership business there.







Responding pleading



(3)

A response to family claim, response to counterclaim or response to
petition by a partnership must be in the name of the firm, but a
partner or a person served as a partner may file a response to family
claim, response to counterclaim or response to petition and defend in
the person's own name, whether or not named in the notice of family
claim, counterclaim or petition.







Affidavit naming partners



(4)

If a firm is a party to a family law case, any other party may serve a
notice requiring one of the partners to serve, within 10 days, an
affidavit setting out the names and addresses of all persons who were
partners when the alleged right or liability arose.







Court may order service



(5)

If the affidavit requested under subrule (4) is not served, the court
may order service.








Execution against partnership property




(6)

If an order is made against a firm, execution to enforce the order may
issue against any property of the firm.







Execution against partners



(7)

Without limiting subrule (8), if an order is made against a firm,
execution to enforce the order may issue against any person who




(a)

filed a response to family claim, response to counterclaim or response
to petition in the family law case in the person's own name as a
partner,




(b)

having been served with the notice of family claim, counterclaim or
petition as a partner, failed to file a response to family claim,
response to counterclaim or response to petition in the family law
case,




(c)

admitted in a pleading or affidavit that the person is a partner, or




(d)

was adjudged to be a partner.







Execution against other persons



(8)

If a party who has obtained an order against a firm claims that a
person who is not a person described in subrule (7) is liable to
satisfy the order as being a member of the firm, the party may apply
to the court for leave to issue execution against that person.







Liability may be determined



(9)

If the person against whom an application under subrule (8) is made
disputes liability, the court may order that the liability of the
person be determined in any manner in which an issue or question in a
family law case may be determined.








Family law case against person carrying on business in a name other
than the person's own




(10)

A person carrying on business in a name or style other than the
person's own name may be sued in that name or style as if it were the
name of a firm, and this rule applies as if the person were a partner
and the name in which the person carries on business were the name of
that firm.




Rule 20-2 — Minors






Party who is a minor



(1)

A minor may act without a litigation guardian in a family law case in
the following circumstances:




(a)

in a family law case brought under the

Family Law Act

, if section 201 of that Act applies;




(b)

in any other family law case, if the minor has attained the age of 16
years.

[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 24 (a).]







Rule 20-3 does not apply in certain circumstances




(1.1)

Rule 20-3 does not apply to a minor who may, under subrule (1) of this
rule, act without a litigation guardian in a family law case.

[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 24 (a).]






Appointment of litigation guardian



(2)

Without limiting section 201 of the

Family Law Act

and despite subrule (1), if the court considers that it is in the
interest of a minor referred to in subrule (1) or of any child of the
minor, it may, whether or not on the application of a party, appoint a
litigation guardian for the minor or for the child of the minor.

[am. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 24 (b).]



Rule 20-3 — Persons under Disability






Interpretation



(1)

In this rule,
"committee"
means the committee, appointed under the

Patients Property Act,

of the estate of a patient.








Start of family law case by person under disability




(2)

A family law case brought by or against a person under legal
disability must be started or defended by his or her litigation
guardian.







Role of litigation guardian



(3)

Unless a rule otherwise provides, anything that is required or
authorized by these Supreme Court Family Rules to be done by or
invoked against a party under disability must




(a)

be done on the party's behalf by his or her litigation guardian, or




(b)

be invoked against the party by invoking the same against the party's
litigation guardian.







Lawyer must be involved



(4)

A litigation guardian must act by a lawyer unless the litigation
guardian is the Public Guardian and Trustee.







Litigation guardian



(5)

Unless the court otherwise orders or an enactment otherwise provides,
a person ordinarily resident in British Columbia may be a litigation
guardian of a person under disability without being appointed by the
court.







Committee as litigation guardian



(6)

If a person is appointed committee, that person must be the litigation
guardian of the patient in any family law case unless the court
otherwise orders.







Consent of litigation guardian



(7)

Before the name of a person is used in a family law case as a
litigation guardian, that person's consent, signed by the person or
his or her lawyer, must be filed, unless the person




(a)

has been appointed by the court, or




(b)

is the litigation guardian under section 35 (1) of the

Representation Agreement Act

of a party to that family law case.







Certificate of fitness



(8)

Unless a committee has been appointed, the lawyer for a person under
disability, before acting in a family law case, must, unless subrule
(9) applies, file a certificate that he or she knows or believes that




(a)

the person to whom the certificate relates is an infant or mentally
incompetent person, giving the grounds of that knowledge or belief,
and if the person to whom the certificate relates is a mentally
incompetent person, that a committee has not been appointed for the
person, and




(b)

the proposed litigation guardian of the person under disability has no
interest in the family law case adverse to that person.







Certificate for a litigation guardian



(9)

The lawyer for a person who, under section 35 (1) of the

Representation Agreement Act

, has a litigation guardian must, before acting in a family law case
to which the person is a party, file a certificate certifying that the
lawyer knows or believes that




(a)

the person has entered into a representation agreement,




(b)

the litigation guardian is a representative under that representation
agreement and is authorized under section 7 (1) (d) of the

Representation Agreement Act

in relation to the family law case, and




(c)

the litigation guardian has no interest in the family law case adverse
to the person.







Party becoming incompetent



(10)

If a party to a family law case becomes a mentally incompetent person,
the court must appoint a litigation guardian for him or her unless




(a)

a committee has been appointed for the party, or




(b)

the party has a litigation guardian under section 35 (1) of the

Representation Agreement Act

.







Removal of litigation guardian



(11)

If it is in the interest of a party who is under disability, the court
may remove, appoint or substitute a litigation guardian.







Party attaining age of majority



(12)

A party to a family law case who attains the age of majority may, if
the party is then under no legal disability,




(a)

file an affidavit, in Form F84, confirming the attainment of the age
of majority, and




(b)

serve a copy of the filed affidavit on all parties.







Effect of filing affidavit



(13)

After an affidavit is filed under subrule (12) (a),




(a)

the party on whose behalf the affidavit was filed assumes conduct of
that party's claim or defence in the family law case, and




(b)

the style of proceeding must no longer refer to a litigation guardian
for that party.







Step in default



(14)

A party must not take a step in default against a person under
disability without leave of the court.







Service



(15)

Unless the court otherwise orders, notice of an application for leave
under subrule (14) must be served on the person under disability at
least 10 days before the hearing of the application, in the manner
provided by Part 6.







Litigation guardian must be appointed



(16)

If no response to family claim, response to counterclaim or response
to petition has been filed to a notice of family claim, counterclaim
or petition on behalf of a person under disability, the person who
started the family law case, before continuing the family law case
against the person under disability, must obtain an order from the
court appointing a litigation guardian for the person under
disability.







Compromise by person under disability



(17)

Unless an enactment otherwise provides, if a claim is made by or on
behalf of a person under disability, no settlement, compromise,
payment or acceptance of money paid into court, whenever entered into
or made, so far as it relates to that person's claim, is binding
without the approval of the court.







Approval of compromise



(18)

If, before a family law case is started, an agreement is reached for
the settlement or compromise of a claim of a person under disability,
whether alone or with others, and it is desired to obtain the court's
approval, application may be made by petition and the court may make
any order it considers will further the object of these Supreme Court
Family Rules.




Rule 20-4 — Declaratory Relief






Declaratory order



(1)

A proceeding is not open to objection on the ground that only a
declaratory order is sought, and the court may make binding
declarations of right whether or not consequential relief is or could
be claimed.




Rule 20-5 — Persons Who Are Not Required to Pay Fees







Court may order that no fees are payable




(1)

If the court, on application made in accordance with subrule (3)
before or after the start of a family law case, finds that a person




(a)

receives benefits under the

Employment and Assistance Act

or the


Employment and Assistance for Persons with Disabilities Act


, or




(b)

cannot, without undue hardship, afford to pay the fees under Schedule
1 of Appendix C in relation to the family law case,


the court may order that no fees are payable by the person to the
government under Schedule 1 of Appendix C in relation to the family
law case unless the court considers that the claim or defence




(c)

discloses no reasonable claim or defence, as the case may be,




(d)

is scandalous, frivolous or vexatious, or




(e)

is otherwise an abuse of the process of the court.

[en. B.C. Reg. 104/2015, s. 3.]






Application of order



(2)

An order under subrule (1) may apply to one or more of the following:




(a)

a family law case generally:




(b)

any part of a family law case;




(c)

a specific period of time;




(d)

one or more particular steps in a family law case.







How to apply



(3)

An application under subrule (1) may be made by filing




(a)

a requisition in Form F17,




(b)

a draft of the proposed order in Form F85, and




(c)

an affidavit in Form F86.

[am. B.C. Reg. 95/2011, Sch. B, s. 5.]







Review, variation or rescission of order




(4)

On application or on the court's own motion, the court may review,
vary or rescind any order made under subrule (1) or (2).







No fee payable



(5)

Despite anything in this rule, if the court makes an order in relation
to a person under this rule, no fee is payable by the person to the
government under Schedule 1 of Appendix C in relation to




(a)

the family law case,




(b)

the part of the family law case,




(c)

the period of time, or




(d)

the steps

to which the order applies.
[am. B.C. Reg. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 24 (b).]



Rule 20-6 — Litigation Representatives






Definition



(1)

In this rule,
"litigation representative"
, in relation to the estate of a deceased, means a person referred to
in subrule (3) who is starting, conducting or defending a family law
case referred to in subrule (2) on behalf of the deceased's estate.

[en. B.C. Reg. 90/2014, Sch. 2, s. 3.]






Application of rule



(2)

This rule applies if




(a)

a person who has or may have a cause of action dies before starting a
family law case in relation to that cause of action,




(b)

a person against whom a cause of action may be asserted dies before a
family law case is started in relation to that cause of action,




(c)

a person who has started a family law case dies before judgment is
pronounced in that family law case, or




(d)

a person against whom a family law case has been started dies before
judgment is pronounced in that family law case,


and the cause of action, in relation to which the family law case may
be or has been started, survives.

[en. B.C. Reg. 90/2014, Sch. 2, s. 3.]







Starting, conducting or defending a family law case on behalf of
deceased's estate




(3)

If there is no personal representative for a deceased's estate, the
court may, on application brought in accordance with subrule (5),
appoint a person as a litigation representative to start, conduct or
defend a family law case referred to in subrule (2) on behalf of the
deceased's estate.

[en. B.C. Reg. 90/2014, Sch. 2, s. 3.]






Notice of application required



(4)

Before making an order under subrule (3), the court may require notice
of the application to be given to a person having an interest in the
deceased's estate.

[en. B.C. Reg. 90/2014, Sch. 2, s. 3.]






Procedure for application



(5)

An application under subrule (3) may be brought without notice under
Rule 10-8.

[en. B.C. Reg. 90/2014, Sch. 2, s. 3.]







No authorization to distribute proceeds




(6)

Nothing in this rule authorizes a person who is not the personal
representative of the deceased to distribute proceeds of a proceeding
that belong to the deceased's estate to anyone other than the personal
representative.

[en. B.C. Reg. 90/2014, Sch. 2, s. 3.]






Substitution required



(7)

A litigation representative conducting or defending a family law case
referred to in subrule (2) (c) or (d) must, under Rule 8-2, be
substituted for the deceased as a party in the family law case.

[en. B.C. Reg. 90/2014, Sch. 2, s. 3.]







When personal representative is appointed




(8)

If




(a)

a person becomes a personal representative for a deceased's estate
after a litigation representative is appointed, and




(b)

a family law case referred to in subrule (2) has been started in
relation to the deceased,


the personal representative must, on application under Rule 8-2,




(c)

be substituted for the deceased as a party in the family law case, or




(d)

if a litigation representative is conducting or defending the family
law case, be substituted for the litigation representative as a party
in the family law case,


unless an order is made in respect of the proceeding under section 151
of the

Wills, Estates and Succession Act

.

[en. B.C. Reg. 90/2014, Sch. 2, s. 3.]



Part 21 — General



Rule 21-1 — Forms and Documents






Forms



(1)

The forms in Appendix A must be used if applicable, with variations as
the circumstances of the family law case require, and each of those
forms must be completed by including the information required by that
form in accordance with any instructions included on the form.







Documents



(2)

Unless the nature of the document renders it impracticable, every
document prepared for use in the court must be in the English
language, legibly printed, typewritten, written or reproduced on 8 1/2
inch × 11 inch durable white paper or durable off-white recycled
paper.







Transcripts



(3)

Transcripts of oral evidence must conform to subrule (2).







Space for stamp



(4)

The first page of each document prepared for use in a family law case
must contain a blank area extending at least 5 centimetres from the
top of the page and at least 5 centimetres from the left edge of the
page.







Style of proceeding



(5)

A document prepared for use in a family law case must be headed with
the style of proceeding set out on the most recent notice of family
claim, counterclaim or petition to be filed in that family law case,
but in a document, other than an order or a document that starts a
family law case, if there is more than one party to the family law
case identified as a claimant or as any other classification of party,
the style of proceeding may be abbreviated to show the name of the
first party listed in that classification, followed by the words "and
others".




Rule 21-2 — Time






Computation of time



(1)

Unless a contrary intention otherwise appears, if a period of less
than 7 days is set out by these Supreme Court Family Rules or in an
order of the court, holidays are not counted.







Extending or shortening time



(2)

The court may extend or shorten any period of time provided for in
these Supreme Court Family Rules or in an order of the court, even
though the application for the extension or the order granting the
extension is made after the period of time has expired.








Extending or shortening time respecting documents




(3)

The period fixed by these Supreme Court Family Rules or an order for
serving, filing or amending a pleading or other document may be
extended by consent.








Notice of intention to proceed after delay of one year




(4)

In a family law case in which judgment has not been pronounced and no
step has been taken for one year, a party must not proceed until




(a)

the expiration of 28 days after service of notice of that party's
intention to proceed in Form F48 on all parties, and




(b)

a copy of the notice of intention to proceed and proof of its service
has been filed.







Want of prosecution



(5)

Despite this rule, a respondent may apply to have a family law case
dismissed for want of prosecution without serving a notice of
intention to proceed in Form F48.







Attendance



(6)

Attendance on an appointment before an official reporter within 1/2
hour following the time fixed for the appointment is a sufficient
attendance.




Rule 21-3 — Multiple Claims and Parties






Multiple claims



(1)

Without limiting Rule 3-1 (5) but subject to subrule (6) of this rule,
a person, whether claiming in the same or different capacities, may
join several claims in the same family law case.







Multiple parties



(2)

Subject to subrule (6), a family law case may be started by or against
2 or more persons in any of the following circumstances:




(a)

if separate family law cases were brought by or against each of those
persons, a common question of law or fact would arise in all the
family law cases;




(b)

a right to relief claimed in the family law cases, whether it is
joint, several or alternative, is in respect of or arises out of the
same transaction or series of transactions;




(c)

the court grants leave to do so.








Joining persons jointly entitled to relief




(3)

Subject to any enactment or these Supreme Court Family Rules or unless
the court otherwise orders, a claimant or petitioner who claims relief
to which any other person is jointly entitled must name as parties to
the family law case all persons so entitled, and any of them who do
not consent to be named as a claimant or petitioner must be made a
respondent.







If persons are jointly liable



(4)

If relief is claimed against a person who is jointly liable with some
other person, the other person need not be named as a party to the
family law case, but if persons may be jointly, but not severally,
liable and relief is claimed against some but not all of those persons
in a family law case, the court may stay the family law case until the
other persons who may be liable are named as parties.








Party need not be interested in all relief




(5)

It is not necessary that every person named as a party be interested
in all the relief sought in a family law case, but the court may order
that a party be compensated for being required to attend, or be
relieved from attending, a part of a trial or hearing in which that
party has no interest.







Separation



(6)

If a joinder of several claims or parties in a family law case may
unduly complicate or delay the trial or hearing of the family law case
or is otherwise inconvenient, the court may order separate trials or
hearings or make any other order it considers will further the object
of these Supreme Court Family Rules.







Separating counterclaim



(7)

If a counterclaim ought to be disposed of by a separate family law
case, the court may so order.







Consolidation



(8)

Family law cases may be consolidated at any time by order of the court
or may be ordered to be tried at the same time or on the same day.








Consolidation of proceedings with Provincial Court proceedings




(8.1)

If, under section 194 (3) (c) of the

Family Law Act

, one or more Provincial Court proceedings are to be consolidated with
one or more Supreme Court proceedings, the court may, in the order for
consolidation, make any orders it considers will further one or both
of the object of these Supreme Court Family Rules and the object of
the

Family Law Act

, including, without limitation, orders respecting the following:




(a)

the amendment, filing and service of pleadings;




(b)

any matter in relation to which the court may make an order at a
judicial case conference under Rule 7-1 or at a trial management
conference under Rule 14-3.

[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 25.]






Misjoinder or nonjoinder of parties



(9)

A family law case must not be defeated by reason of the misjoinder or
nonjoinder of a party and the court may deal with the matter in
controversy so far as it affects the rights and interests of the
parties before it.




Rule 21-4 — Change of Lawyer






Change of lawyer



(1)

A party to a family law case




(a)

may change lawyers,




(b)

having acted on his or her own behalf, may engage a lawyer to act, or




(c)

having been represented by a lawyer, may discharge the lawyer and act
on his or her own behalf,


but until copies of notice of the change in Form F87 or F88 have been
filed and served on the other parties, the other parties are entitled
to proceed on the basis that there has been no change of
representation or address for service.







Order that lawyer has ceased to act



(2)

If




(a)

a lawyer for a party has died, cannot be found or for any reason is
unable to practise, and




(b)

the party has not given notice of change of lawyer or of intention to
act in person in accordance with subrule (1),


the court, on the application of any other party, may order that the
lawyer has ceased to be the lawyer of the first mentioned party.







Order on application of lawyer



(3)

If a lawyer who has acted for a party to a family law case has ceased
to act and the party has not given a notice of change in accordance
with subrule (1), the court, on the application of the lawyer, may
declare that the lawyer has ceased to be the lawyer acting for the
party and, if applicable,




(a)

may declare that the lawyer's office is not the address for service of
the party and give directions as to a new address for service, and




(b)

may declare that the lawyer's fax number or e-mail address may no
longer be used for service and give directions for a new fax number or
e-mail address for service.







Notice of intention to withdraw



(4)

As an alternative to proceeding under subrule (3), a lawyer who has
ceased to act for a party who has not given a notice of change under
subrule (1) may serve a notice of intention to withdraw in Form F89 on
that party and on the other parties.







Filing of objection



(5)

If a party on whom a notice of intention to withdraw is served under
subrule (4) wishes to object to the withdrawal, the party must, within
7 days after service,




(a)

file in the registry an objection in Form F90, and




(b)

serve on the lawyer a copy of the filed objection.







Procedure if no objection filed



(6)

A lawyer who serves a notice of intention to withdraw under subrule
(4) on all parties to a family law case may file a notice of
withdrawal of lawyer in Form F91 if no objection, notice of change of
lawyer or notice of intention to act in person is filed within 7 days
after service of the notice of intention to withdraw.







Service of notice of withdrawal



(7)

If a lawyer files a notice of withdrawal of lawyer under subrule (6),
the lawyer ceases to be the party's lawyer when the notice has been
served on all parties.







Service of documents after withdrawal



(8)

After a lawyer ceases under subrule (7) to be a party's lawyer, the
party's address for service is, until that address is changed under
Rule 6-1 (3), the address set out in the notice of withdrawal of
lawyer filed under subrule (6) of this rule.







Procedure if objection filed



(9)

If, within the 7 day period referred to in subrule (6), an objection
is filed in the registry, the lawyer may apply, on notice to each
party who has filed an objection, for an order under subrule (3).







Substituted service



(10)

If personal service of a notice of intention to withdraw cannot be
made in accordance with Rule 6-3 (2) on a party for whom the lawyer
acts, the lawyer may apply for an order under Rule 6-4 allowing
service by an alternative method.







Service of copy of order



(11)

An applicant who obtains an order under subrule (2) or (3) must serve
a copy of the entered order on all parties and, until it is served, a
party is entitled to proceed on the basis that there has been no
change of lawyer or address for service.




Rule 21-5 — If Parties Fail to Comply with These Rules







If party does not comply with the rules




(1)

If a party does not comply with these Supreme Court Family Rules, the
court may do one or more of the following:




(a)

if the party who has not complied is a claimant or a respondent who
has brought a counterclaim,




(i)

strike out the notice of family claim, counterclaim or petition, and




(ii)

grant judgment dismissing the claims made in the notice of family
claim, counterclaim or petition;




(b)

if the party who has not complied is a respondent or a respondent to
counterclaim, strike out the response to family claim, response to
counterclaim or response to petition;




(c)

set aside a step taken;




(d)

make an order for costs against the party;




(e)

make any other order it considers will further the object of these
Supreme Court Family Rules.







Non-compliance with rules



(2)

Unless the court otherwise orders, a failure to comply with these
Supreme Court Family Rules must be treated as an irregularity and does
not nullify




(a)

a family law case,




(b)

a step taken in the family law case, or




(c)

any document or order made in the family law case.

[en. B.C. Reg. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 25.]



Rule 21-6 — If Parties Fail to Attend






Failure of party to attend



(1)

Without limiting Rule 21-5, if a party fails to attend at a trial or
hearing at the time appointed for that trial or hearing, the court
may, after receipt of any evidence of service it considers
appropriate, do one or more of the following:




(a)

proceed with the trial or hearing;




(b)

draw any inference from the failure to attend that the court considers
appropriate, including attributing an amount of income to the party;




(c)

grant some or all of the relief sought.








Failure of all parties to appear at trial




(2)

Unless the court otherwise orders, if no party is in attendance when
the trial of a family law case is called, the family law case must be
struck off the trial list.







Court may set aside judgment



(3)

A party may apply to set aside a judgment obtained at trial in that
party's absence.




Rule 21-7 — Contempt of Court






Power of court to punish



(1)

The power of the court to punish contempt of court must be exercised
by an order of committal or by imposition of a fine or both.







Corporation in contempt



(2)

If a corporation wilfully disobeys an order against the corporation,
the order may be enforced by one or more of the following:




(a)

imposition of a fine on the corporation;




(b)

committal of one or more directors or officers of the corporation;




(c)

imposition of a fine on one or more directors or officers of the
corporation.







Security



(3)

Instead of or in addition to making an order of committal or imposing
a fine, the court may order a person to give security for the person's
good behaviour.







Certain acts as contempt



(4)

A person who is guilty of an act or omission described in Rule 14-7
(25), in addition to being subject to any consequences prescribed by
those rules, is guilty of contempt of court and subject to the court's
power to punish contempt of court.







If person may be guilty of contempt



(5)

If the court is of the opinion that a person may be guilty of contempt
of court, it may order, by warrant in Form F92 directed to a sheriff
or other officer of the court or to a peace officer, that the person
be apprehended and brought before the court.







Power of court after apprehension



(6)

If a person referred to in subrule (5) is apprehended and brought
before the court, the court in a summary manner may adjudge the
innocence or guilt of the person and punish the person for the
contempt, if any, or may give the directions it thinks fit for the
determination of the person's innocence or guilt and punishment.








If corporation may be guilty of contempt




(7)

If the court is of the opinion that a corporation may be guilty of
contempt of court, it may order, by its warrant in Form F92 directed
to a sheriff or other officer of the court or to a peace officer, that
any director, officer or employee of the corporation be apprehended
and brought before the court.







Power of court after apprehension



(8)

If a director, officer or employee referred to in subrule (7) is
apprehended and brought before the court, the court in a summary
manner may adjudge the innocence or guilt of the corporation and
punish the corporation for the contempt, if any, or may give the
directions it thinks fit for the determination of its innocence or
guilt and the punishment to be imposed.

[am. B.C. Reg. 112/2012, Sch. B, s. 3.]






Release of apprehended person



(9)

The court may order the release of a person apprehended under subrule
(5) or (7) on receiving an undertaking in Form F93 from that person.







Order for release



(10)

A release order under subrule (9) must be in Form F94.







Proceeding for contempt



(11)

A party applying for an order for contempt must serve the alleged
contemnor with a copy of the filed notice of application and all filed
affidavits in support of it at least 7 days before the hearing of the
application.







Affidavit



(12)

An application under subrule (11) must be supported by affidavit
setting out the conduct alleged to be contempt of court.







Hearing



(13)

The court may give directions as to the mode of hearing the
application, including an order that the matter be transferred to the
trial list under Rule 10-3 (7) (d).







Service of order not necessary



(14)

If the court is satisfied that a person has actual notice of the terms
of an order of the court, it may find the person guilty of contempt
for disobedience of the order, even though the order has not been
served on the person.







Suspension of punishment



(15)

The court at any time may direct that the punishment for contempt be
suspended for the period or on the terms or conditions the court may
specify.







Discharge of person



(16)

The court, on application by or on behalf of a person committed to
prison for contempt may discharge that person, even though the period
of the committal may not have elapsed.







Weekly review of person in custody



(17)

If the court orders a person committed without specifying in days,
weeks or months the period of the committal, the sheriff must bring
that person before the court at intervals of not more than 7 days, in
order that the court may review the committal and determine whether
relief as set out in subrule (15) or (16) should be granted.




Rule 21-8 — Vexatious Litigants







Leave to file pleading, application or other document




(1)

If an order has been made that a person must not, without leave of the
court, start a proceeding or file an application or other document in
an existing proceeding, the person may apply for leave by filing a
requisition in Form F94.1 to which is attached




(a)

a copy of the pleading, application or document which the person seeks
leave to file, and




(b)

a copy of the order requiring the person to obtain leave of the court.

[en. B.C. Reg. 239/2023, Sch. 2, s. 6.]






Requisition need not be served



(2)

Subject to subrule (3), a person applying for leave under subrule (1)
need not serve the requisition referred to in subrule (1) on any other
person.

[en. B.C. Reg. 239/2023, Sch. 2, s. 6.]






Powers of the court



(3)

On an application for leave under subrule (1), the court may do one or
more of the following:




(a)

grant or refuse the request for leave;




(b)

require that the person or lawyer appear in person to speak to the
application, with or without notice to any other person;




(c)

make any order or give any other directions the court considers will
further the object of these Supreme Court Family Rules.

[en. B.C. Reg. 239/2023, Sch. 2, s. 6.]



Part 22 — Court and Registry Matters



Rule 22-1 — Powers of Court







Court may adjourn trial, hearing or conference




(1)

Whether or not the parties consent, the court may adjourn a trial,
hearing or conference to a specific date or without setting a date.







Waiver or modification



(2)

The court may, at any time,




(a)

waive or modify a time limit set by these Supreme Court Family Rules
or by an order of the court, even after the time limit has expired,
and




(b)

waive or modify any service or notice requirement under these Supreme
Court Family Rules.








Attendance by telephone or other means




(3)

A person entitled or required to attend court may attend by telephone,
video conference or other communications medium if




(a)

the court authorizes attendance in that manner, and




(b)

all persons participating, whether by telephone, by video conference,
by other communications medium or in person, are able to communicate
with each other.








Court may direct how attendance by telephone or other means is to be
conducted




(4)

If the court considers it appropriate for a person to attend court by
telephone, video conference or other communications medium, the court
may direct the manner in which the attendance is to be conducted.








Court may refer calculation of child support




(5)

If the regional manager has advised the court in writing that a person
designated by the Attorney General to provide assistance in the
calculation of child support is readily available to the court, the
court may, at any time,




(a)

refer calculation of child support to that person, and




(b)

require that the results of that calculation be reported back to the
court.







Security for costs



(6)

The court may make an order for security for the costs of a party.







No stay on appeal



(7)

If a parenting order, a contact order, a guardianship order, an order
respecting parenting arrangements or contact with a child or a support
order is appealed, the order remains in force until the determination
of the appeal, unless the court that made the order otherwise directs.

[am. B.C. Regs. 133/2012, s. 26; 208/2020, s. 7.]






Same judge or associate judge



(8)

Whenever practicable and appropriate, the same judge or associate
judge is to manage and hear all of the following in a family law case:




(a)

applications;




(b)

judicial case conferences;




(c)

the trial.

[am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3, s. 5.]



Rule 22-2 — Registry Operations






Copy of document filed in registry



(1)

Unless otherwise provided by an enactment, a person may, on payment of
the proper fees, obtain from the registry a copy of a document on file
in a family law case.







When registry open



(2)

Except on Saturdays, holidays and those days that are prescribed by
the Lieutenant Governor in Council as holidays for the Public Service
of British Columbia, the registry is to be kept open to the public for
the transaction of business from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m.







Hours of registrar



(3)

The hours of attendance by a registrar and the registry staff are from
8:30 a.m. until 4:30 p.m.







Lunch hours



(4)

If a registry has insufficient staff to allow continuous staff
attendance at the lunch hour, the Chief Justice may, in writing,
authorize that registry to close.







Use of seal



(5)

In each registry, the seal of the court must be stamped on every




(a)

notice of family claim, and




(b)

other document requiring a seal

issued from or filed in that registry.






Name of registry



(6)

The name of the registry must be written or stamped on the face of
every document issued from or filed or recorded in that registry.







Signature of registrar



(7)

If the signature or endorsement of a registrar is required on a
document, the document is deemed to have been signed or endorsed by
the registrar if the document is signed or endorsed by a person
appointed for that purpose by the registrar.








Business not to be conducted out of office hours




(8)

In case of urgency, the court may order that a registry be opened for
the purpose of commencing a proceeding or for some other good reason.







Request to registrar by requisition



(9)

Unless these Supreme Court Family Rules provide otherwise, if a person
wishes a registrar to perform some act under these Supreme Court
Family Rules,




(a)

the person must make the request by requisition in Form F17 unless
these Supreme Court Family Rules otherwise provide, and




(b)

the registrar may discard the requisition after the required act has
been done.







Incapacity of judge



(10)

If an application ought to be made to, or any jurisdiction ought to be
exercised by, the judge by whom a family law case has been tried or
partly tried, or heard or partly heard, then, if that judge dies or
ceases to be a judge of the court during or after the trial or
hearing, or if for any other reason it is impossible or inconvenient
for that judge to act in the family law case, the Chief Justice or
next senior judge of the court may, either by a special order or by a
general order, nominate some other judge to whom the application may
be made or by whom the jurisdiction may be exercised.







Powers of substituted judge



(11)

Without limiting subrule (10), the other judge nominated under that
subrule may




(a)

order that the family law case be restored to the proper registry for
retrial or rehearing,




(b)

if, on the original trial or hearing, evidence was given orally,
direct that the retrial or rehearing be on




(i)

an official transcript of that evidence,




(ii)

transcript, evidence given orally and evidence given by affidavit,




(iii)

new evidence, or




(iv)

any other basis,


as in the judge's opinion the circumstances of the family law case
require, and




(c)

dispose of the costs of the original trial or hearing and of the costs
of furnishing any copies of the transcript of the evidence, or refer
the question of costs to the judge presiding at the retrial or
rehearing.

[am. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 20.]






Powers of presiding judge



(12)

Directions for a retrial or rehearing that include a direction for the
use of the transcript of the evidence do not limit or restrict the
power of the judge presiding at the retrial or rehearing to permit in
the judge's discretion the recalling of any witness called at the
original trial or hearing, or to receive other or additional evidence.

[am. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 20.]






Transfers



(13)

At any time after a family law case is started, the court may on
application order the family law case to be transferred from the
registry in which it is being conducted to any other registry of the
court for any or all purposes.




Rule 22-3 — Fax Filing






Application



(1)

This rule applies only to those family law cases that are filed at the
Chilliwack, Cranbrook, Dawson Creek, Kamloops, Kelowna, Nelson,
Penticton, Prince George, Prince Rupert, Rossland, Salmon Arm,
Smithers, Terrace, Vernon or Williams Lake registry of the court.

[am. B.C. Reg. 321/2021, Sch. 2, s. 7.]







Document may be submitted for filing by fax




(2)

Subject to this rule, a person wishing to file a document may transmit
that document by fax to the applicable court registry.







Means of transmission



(3)

A document may be transmitted by fax to a registry for filing if




(a)

the document is transmitted to the appropriate registry at the fax
number designated for that registry by a practice direction of the
Chief Justice,




(b)

the document is




(i)

sent under cover of a fax cover sheet in Form F95, and




(ii)

accompanied by payment of the applicable filing fees, and




(c)

the document is not one referred to in subrule (4).







Application of this rule



(4)

The following documents may not be transmitted by fax to a registry
for filing:




(a)

any document pertaining to the following:




(i)

adoption;




(ii)

reciprocal enforcement of orders under the

Court Order Enforcement Act

;




(b)

any of the following documents:




(i)

a certified copy of any document being filed for enforcement purposes;




(ii)

an application record or a petition record;




(iii)

a trial record;




(iv)

a proof of marriage from a foreign jurisdiction;




(v)

a certificate of judgment;




(vi)

a certificate of pending litigation;




(vii)

an affidavit of service submitted for filing in support of a default
order;




(c)

any of the following documents, unless their submission by fax is
authorized by the Manager, Supreme Court Scheduling of the receiving
registry:




(i)

a trial certificate;




(ii)

a notice of trial;




(iii)

and (iv) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 26 (b).]




(v)

a requisition to reset a hearing or trial;




(vi)

a requisition requesting a judicial case conference;




(d)

a document that, with the fax cover sheet, exceeds 30 pages in length,
unless its submission by fax is authorized by a registrar.

[am. B.C. Reg. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 26.]






When a document is filed



(5)

A document that is transmitted by fax to a registry for filing in
accordance with subrule (3) and that is approved for filing by the
registrar is filed as follows:




(a)

the document is filed on the day it is received by the registry if any
of the document, other than the fax cover sheet, is received at the
fax machine of the registry at or before 4 p.m. on a day on which the
registry is open for business;




(b)

the document is filed on the next day on which the registry is open
for business in any other case.







Confirmation of filing



(6)

After a document is received at the fax machine of the registry, a
registrar must do the following in accordance with subrule (7):




(a)

if the document was transmitted for filing in accordance with subrule
(3) and was approved for filing by the registrar, provide to the
person identified as the submitting party on the fax cover sheet




(i)

confirmation of the fees paid, and




(ii)

the first page of the filed document, bearing the registry stamp and
file number;




(b)

if the document was not transmitted for filing in accordance with
subrule (3), or was not approved for filing by the registrar, provide
to the person identified as the submitting party on the fax cover
sheet




(i)

a notice that the document has not been filed and the reasons for
non-acceptance, and




(ii)

the first page of the document.







Confirmation of filing



(7)

For the purposes of subrule (6), a registrar may provide the documents
referred to in that subrule to the person identified as the submitting
party on the fax cover sheet




(a)

by transmitting those documents by fax to the fax number shown on the
fax cover sheet as the fax number for the submitting party, or




(b)

in any other manner the registrar considers appropriate.








Original of document may be required by court




(8)

The court may require that the original of a document that has been
filed under this rule be produced.




Rule 22-4 — Electronic Filing






Definitions



(1)

In this rule:



"electronic document"

means a document that has been transmitted for filing electronically;



"electronic services agreement"

means an agreement referred to in subrule (3);



"registered user"

means a person who has entered into an electronic services agreement.








This rule prevails in event of conflict




(2)

In the event of a conflict between this rule and another rule, this
rule applies.







Electronic services agreement



(3)

A person wishing to file documents in a registry under this rule must




(a)

enter into an agreement with the Court Services Branch of the Ministry
of Attorney General respecting the terms and conditions under which
those filings may be made, and




(b)

submit documents for filing in accordance with that agreement.


[am. B.C. Regs. 27/2013, Sch. 2, s. 15; 99/2018, Sch. 2, s. 18.]







Means of transmission



(4)

A registered user may electronically transmit a document to a registry
for filing if




(a)

the document is accompanied by payment of the applicable filing fees,
and




(b)

the document is not one referred to in subrule (5).







Application of this rule



(5)

The following documents may not be transmitted for filing
electronically:




(a)

any document pertaining to the reciprocal enforcement of orders under
the

Court Order Enforcement Act

;




(b)

any of the following documents:




(i)

a certified copy of any document being filed for enforcement purposes;




(ii)

an application record, a petition record or a hearing record;




(iii)

a trial record;




(iv)

a proof of marriage from a foreign jurisdiction, unless such proof is
issued electronically;




(v)

a certificate of judgment;




(vi)

a certificate of pending litigation;




(vii)

an affidavit, filed under Rule 14-7 (59), that constitutes the
evidence in chief of a witness.

[am. B.C. Reg. 121/2014, s. 10.]






Affidavits and other signed documents



(6)

An affidavit or other signed document that is being filed for
evidentiary purposes, if submitted for filing electronically, must
clearly identify the signatory and must be accompanied by a statement,
in Form F96, of the lawyer acting for the person on whose behalf the
document is submitted for filing or, if that person is unrepresented,
by a statement of that person, in Form F96, indicating that




(a)

the original paper version of the document appears to bear an original
signature of the person identified as the signatory and the person
making the Form F96 statement has no reason to believe that the
signature placed on the document is not the signature of the
identified signatory, and




(b)

the version of the document that is being submitted for filing
electronically appears to be a true copy of the original paper version
of the document and the person making the Form F96 statement has no
reason to believe that it is not a true copy of the original paper
version.







Retention of documents



(7)

A person who, under subrule (6), submits a document for filing in a
family law case must




(a)

keep the original paper version of the document until the earliest of




(i)

the date on which the family law case, including any appeals, is
finally disposed of,




(ii)

the date on which the appeal period for that family law case has
expired if no notice of appeal respecting the family law case has been
filed within that period, and




(iii)

the date on which a registrar requests that the original paper version
be filed, and




(b)

if a request is made under paragraph (a) (iii), file the original
paper version promptly after that request is made.







Conversion of documents



(8)

If a document in paper form is filed with a registrar, the registrar
may convert the document into electronic form and, in that event, the
registrar must




(a)

store the conversion in a computer or in another electronic system
that the registrar considers appropriate, and




(b)

retain the paper form of the document.







Inspection of original documents



(9)

A person who submits a document referred to in subrule (6) for filing
electronically must, on request, make the original paper version of
that document available for inspection by other parties or their
lawyer and by the court.







Requisition



(10)

A person who is entitled to inspect a document under subrule (9) may,
if that inspection is denied, file a requisition in Form F17 to
request that the original paper version of the document be filed, and,
promptly after receipt of that requisition, the registrar must make a
request under subrule (7) (a) (iii).







Application of Rule 10-4



(11)

Rule 10-4 continues to apply to affidavits filed under this rule, but,
in the event of a conflict between this rule and Rule 10-4 in respect
of those affidavits, this rule prevails.








Electronic authentication deemed a signature




(12)

For the purposes of these Supreme Court Family Rules other than
subrule (6) of this rule, a document is deemed to have been originally
signed if it has been electronically authenticated in the manner
contemplated by the applicable electronic services agreement.







Filing of documents



(13)

If a document that has been transmitted for filing electronically is
accepted for filing by a registrar, the document is deemed to have
been filed as follows:




(a)

if the document is received by the registry at or before 4 p.m. on a
day that is not a Saturday or a holiday, the document is deemed to be
filed on the day of receipt;




(b)

if the document is received by the registry on a Saturday or holiday
or after 4 p.m. on any other day, the document is deemed to be filed
on the next day that is not a Saturday or a holiday.







Electronic acceptance



(14)

After a document that has been transmitted for filing electronically
is accepted for filing by a registrar, the registrar must affix an
electronic version of the registry stamp to the document and, after
that, must provide a copy of the stamped electronic document, in the
manner contemplated by the electronic services agreement, to the
person who transmitted the document for filing.







Sealing of notice of family claim



(15)

After a registrar provides an electronic acceptance of a notice of
family claim under subrule (14), the notice of family claim is deemed
to have been sealed by the registrar.








Public access to documents filed electronically




(16)

After a document has been filed under this rule, a person who is
otherwise entitled to view and obtain a copy of the document may, on
payment of the proper fee,




(a)

obtain from the registry a paper copy of the document,




(b)

if a public access computer terminal is available in the registry,
view the document on that terminal or, if the document is not
available for viewing on that terminal, view on that terminal the
information about the document or its contents, if any, that is
available on that terminal, or




(c)

if the person is a registered user, access the document in accordance
with the terms of the electronic services agreement entered into by
that person.







Service of documents



(17)

A document that may or must be served on a person may, if it is an
electronic document, be served on the person as follows:




(a)

if the person has provided an e-mail address for service, by e-mailing
it to that person's e-mail address for service;




(b)

if the lawyer for the person has provided an e-mail address for
service, by e-mailing it to that lawyer's e-mail address for service;




(c)

if paragraph (a) or (b) applies and, under these Supreme Court Family
Rules, multiple copies of the document are to be served, the serving
party need serve only a single electronic copy of the document.







If document does not reach a person



(18)

Even though a document has been served in accordance with subrule
(17), a person may show, on an application to set aside the
consequences of default, on an application for an extension of time or
on an application in support of a request for an adjournment, that the
document




(a)

did not come to the person's notice,




(b)

did come to the person's notice later than when it was served or
effectively served, or




(c)

was incomplete or illegible.




Rule 22-5 — Money in Court






Interpretation



(1)

In this rule, unless the context otherwise requires:



"financial institution"

means a bank, credit union or trust company designated by the
minister;


"funds"
means any money that has been paid into or deposited in court, except
money paid




(a)

under the

Court Order Enforcement Act

,




(b)

for security for costs,




(c)

in satisfaction of a claim, or




(d)

for bail;


"minister"
means the Minister of Finance;


"securities"
means any bonds, stocks, shares, debentures or other securities.







Deposit of funds



(2)

All funds must be deposited promptly in a financial institution by a
registrar and must, after that, be paid by the registrar to the
minister, accompanied by




(a)

a certified copy of the order directing payment in, or




(b)

if the funds have been paid into court without an order, a statement
showing the particulars of the payment in.







Deposit of securities



(3)

All securities deposited in court must be accompanied




(a)

by a certified copy of the order directing deposit in court and
listing the securities, or




(b)

if the securities are deposited without an order listing the
securities, by a statement listing the securities.







Transmission of securities



(4)

Promptly after securities are deposited in court, a registrar must
transmit those securities to the minister




(a)

by registered mail, insured to the extent of the securities' par
value, or




(b)

through a financial institution,


together with a certified copy of the order or the statement.







Payment out of court



(5)

Funds and securities must be paid out or delivered, on authority of an
order of the court, on production of a certified copy of the order or
authorization by a registrar for payment out, and must be paid or
delivered to the person named in the order or authorization.







Interest



(6)

All funds held in court draw interest, payable by the minister, for
each 6 month period after December 31, 1992, at 2% below the prime
lending rate of the banker to the government on January 1 and July 1
respectively in each year, with interest to be compounded on January 1
and July 1 in each year.







No other interest payable



(7)

The interest paid under this rule is instead of any interest earned on
an investment made by the minister under subrule (10).







Calculation of interest



(8)

Interest under subrule (6) is payable on all funds up to $100 000
from the first day of the month following payment into court until the
last day of the month before payment out of court, and on all funds in
excess of $100 000 from the date of payment into court until the
date of payment out.







Account



(9)

For the purpose of segregating the funds from other money held by the
minister, the minister must create an account in the treasury
designated "Investments,

Supreme Court Act

", and the funds held in this account




(a)

constitute a trust, and




(b)

must, at all times, be substantially equal to the funds held by the
minister under this rule.







Investments



(10)

The minister may




(a)

invest as he or she sees fit all or any part of the funds, and




(b)

convert securities into money.







Direction for payment out



(11)

If, by an order of the court, funds are directed to be dealt with,
delivered or paid out, the order is a direction to the minister to
that effect.








Deposit of other money paid into court




(12)

Money paid into court, other than funds, must be deposited by a
registrar in a financial institution and be paid out in accordance
with the existing practice of the court, but the registrar must pay to
the minister all moneys that have been on deposit for more than 2
years.







No interest on other funds



(13)

Money paid to the minister under this rule must be held by the
minister in the same manner as funds deposited under subrule (2),
except as to payment of interest.







Money for person under disability



(14)

In a family law case in which a sum of money or a security is awarded
to a person under a disability, the court may, at or after the trial,
order that the whole or any part of the sum or the security be paid,




(a)

if the person is an infant, to the Public Guardian and Trustee in
trust for the infant, or




(b)

in any other case, into court to the credit of the person.







Payment out of money or security



(15)

If a sum of money or a security is paid into court under subrule (14)
(b), the sum or the security may be paid out of court as the court may
direct.







Payment in for infant



(16)

When money is paid into court to the credit of an infant, a copy of
the birth certificate of the infant, or other proof to the
satisfaction of a registrar of the name and date of birth of the
infant, must be filed, unless the registrar dispenses with the filing.







Payment out of money held for infant



(17)

In support of an application for payment out of money paid in under
subrule (16), the applicant must file a declaration in Form F97.




Rule 22-6 — Sittings and Hearings






Under direction of Chief Justice



(1)

The court must dispose of the business before it at the times and in
the places the Chief Justice directs.







Urgency



(2)

In case of urgency, an application may be made personally to a judge,
to an associate judge or to a registrar.

[am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3, s. 1.]






Hearing by communication medium



(3)

In case of urgency, or if the court or a registrar considers it
appropriate to do so, the court or the registrar, as the case may be,
may conduct a hearing and make an order or decision by telephone,
video conference or other communication medium.

[en. B.C. Reg. 65/2013, Sch. B, s. 1 (a).]






Court may direct method of attendance



(4)

On application by a party or on its own initiative, the court may
direct




(a)

that an application be heard in person or by way of telephone, video
conference or other communication medium, and




(b)

the manner in which the application is to be conducted.

[am. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 21.]







Registrar may direct method of attendance




(4.1)

On application by a party or on a registrar's own initiative, a
registrar may direct




(a)

that a hearing before a registrar be heard in person or by way of
telephone, video conference or other communication medium, and




(b)

the manner in which the hearing is to be conducted.


[en. B.C. Reg. 65/2013, Sch. B, s. 1 (b); am. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch.
2, s. 20.]








Application must be made by requisition




(5)

An application under subrule (4) or (4.1) for a direction that an
application or a hearing before a registrar be heard in person or by
way of telephone, video conference or other communication medium must
be made by requisition in Form F19.1.


[am. B.C. Regs. 65/2013, Sch. B, s. 1 (c); 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 22.]




Rule 22-7 — Associate Judges, Registrars and Special Referees






Powers of an associate judge



(1)

Without limiting any other powers of an associate judge under these
Supreme Court Family Rules, an associate judge hearing an application
has the powers of the court set out in Rules 10-3 (2)
to (8) and 10-9 (6) to (8).

[am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3, s. 1.]






Associate judge as registrar



(2)

An associate judge has the powers and jurisdiction of a registrar
under these Supreme Court Family Rules.

[am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3, s. 2.]







Powers of an associate judge in estates




(3)

An associate judge has the powers of the court to dispose of all
non-contentious business in the administration of estates.

[am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3, s. 2.]






Hearing record



(3.1)

Before attending a registrar's hearing started by the filing of an
appointment, the person taking out the appointment (in this subrule
called the "applicant") must provide to the registry where the hearing
is to take place, no later than 4 p.m. on the business day that is one
full business day before the date set for the hearing, a hearing
record as follows:




(a)

the hearing record must be in a ring binder or in some other form of
secure binding;




(b)

the hearing record must contain, in consecutively numbered pages, or
separated by tabs, the following documents in the following order:




(i)

a title page bearing the style of proceeding and the names of the
lawyers, if any, for the applicant and the persons served with the
appointment (in this subrule called the "respondents");




(ii)

an index;




(iii)

a copy of the filed appointment and of every document that, under
these rules, is required to be filed with that appointment;




(iv)

a copy of the affidavit of service of the appointment, which copy must
not include the exhibits to the affidavit;




(v)

if the appointment is to settle an order under Rule 15-1, a copy of
the reasons for judgment on which the order is based, a transcript of
the order made or a copy of the clerk's notes from the hearing;




(vi)

if the appointment is to assess costs under Rule 16-1, a copy of the
entered order for costs;




(vii)

if the appointment has been filed under Rule 18-1, a copy of the
entered order referring the matter to the registrar;




(viii)

a copy of every filed affidavit and pleading, and of every other
document, that is to be relied on at the hearing;




(c)

the hearing record may contain




(i)

a draft of the proposed report or certificate, and




(ii)

a list of authorities;




(d)

the hearing record must not contain




(i)

written argument,




(ii)

copies of authorities, including case law, legislation, legal articles
or excerpts from text books, or




(iii)

any other documents unless they are included with the consent of the
applicant and the respondents.

[en. B.C. Reg. 65/2013, Sch. B, s. 2.]






Dealings with hearing record



(3.2)

Rule 10-6 (15), (17) and (18) applies to a hearing record and, for
that purpose, a reference in Rule 10-6 (15), (17) or (18) to
"application record" is a reference to a hearing record and a
reference to an "applicant" and an "application respondent" is a
reference to the applicant and respondent to the registrar's hearing
respectively and a reference to the "hearing of the application" is a
reference to the hearing of the registrar's hearing.

[en. B.C. Reg. 65/2013, Sch. B, s. 2.]







Registrar's powers at registrar's hearing




(4)

A registrar may, in respect of any registrar's hearing, whether before
that registrar or any other registrar,




(a)

extend, shorten or limit the time for any step in the registrar's
hearing,




(b)

exercise the powers that, under Rule 10-3 (2) and (3) or 22-6 (4), may
be exercised by the court,




(c)

exercise the powers set out in Rule 18-1 (5), and




(d)

direct the parties to attend a pre-hearing conference.

[am. B.C. Reg. 112/2012, Sch. B, s. 4.]







Registrar's directions at pre-hearing conference




(5)

Without limiting Rule 18-1 (5), a registrar conducting a pre-hearing
conference may give directions for the conduct of any registrar's
hearing, whether or not that registrar's hearing is before the
registrar conducting the pre-hearing conference, including, without
limitation, directions respecting the following:




(a)

the production of documents;




(b)

oral examinations for discovery;




(c)

service of notices to admit;




(d)

service of experts' reports;




(e)

any other matter that may assist in the just and efficient
determination of the issues.







Reference by associate judge to judge



(6)

If a matter appears to an associate judge to be proper for the
decision of a judge, the associate judge may refer it to a judge, and
the judge may either dispose of the matter or refer it back to the
associate judge with directions.

[am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3, ss. 1 and 6.]







Reference by registrar to judge or associate judge




(7)

If a matter appears to a registrar to be proper for the decision of a
judge or associate judge, the registrar may refer it to a judge or
associate judge, and the judge or associate judge may either dispose
of the matter or refer it back to the registrar with directions.

[am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3, s. 5.]






Repealed



(8)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 105/2019, s. 2.]







Notice of appeal



(8.1)

An appeal from an order or a decision of an associate judge, registrar
or special referee must be brought by filing a notice of appeal in
Form F98 within 14 days after the order or decision is made.


[en. B.C. Reg. 105/2019, s. 2; am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3, s. 1.]








Service of notice of appeal and appellant's statement of argument




(8.2)

A copy of the filed notice of appeal and of the appellant's statement
of argument in Form F98.1 must be served on the respondent(s) within 7
days after the notice of appeal being filed.

[en. B.C. Reg. 105/2019, s. 2.]






Notice of interest



(8.3)

A respondent who wishes to oppose the appeal must file a notice of
interest in Form F77.

[en. B.C. Reg. 105/2019, s. 2.]







Service of notice of interest and respondent's statement of argument




(8.4)

A copy of the notice of interest and of the respondent's statement of
argument in the form set out in Form F98.2 must be delivered to the
appellant within 14 days of after the notice of appeal and appellant's
statement of argument being served.

[en. B.C. Reg. 105/2019, s. 2.]







Transcript of reasons for judgment or decision




(8.5)

If the order or decision from which the appeal is taken was pronounced
orally rather than issued in writing, the appellant must order a
transcript of the presider's reasons for judgment or decision within
14 days after the order or decision is issued.

[en. B.C. Reg. 105/2019, s. 2.]






Transcript of oral evidence



(8.6)

If the appeal is taken from an order or decision following a hearing
in which oral evidence is taken, in addition to a transcript of the
reasons for judgment or decision, the appellant must order a
transcript of the oral evidence within 14 days after the order or
decision is issued.

[en. B.C. Reg. 105/2019, s. 2.]






Date and time of hearing of appeal



(8.7)

If the hearing of an appeal will require more than 2 hours, the date
and time of the hearing must be fixed by Supreme Court Scheduling, and
if the hearing of the appeal will require 2 hours or less, it may be
set on the chambers list on a date not before the expiry of the time
for delivery of the respondent's notice of interest and statement of
argument.

[en. B.C. Reg. 105/2019, s. 2.]






Appeal record



(8.8)

The appellant must provide to the registry where the hearing of the
appeal is to take place, no earlier than 9 a.m. and no later than 4
p.m. on the business day that is one full business day before the date
set for the hearing, an appeal record as follows:




(a)

the appeal record must be in a ring binder or in some other form of
secure binding;




(b)

the appeal record must contain




(i)

a title page,




(ii)

an index,




(iii)

a copy of the notice of appeal,




(iv)

a copy of the order of the associate judge or decision of the
registrar or special referee that is the subject of the appeal,




(v)

a copy of the written reasons for judgment of the associate judge, or
reasons for decision of the registrar or special referee, or, if the
reasons were given orally, a transcript of the reasons,




(vi)

a copy of the notice of application and application response, and for
registrars' appeals, a copy of the appointment,




(vii)

copies of any affidavits that were before the associate judge,
registrar or special referee that will be relied on for the appeal,




(viii)

a transcript of any oral evidence heard by the associate judge,
registrar or special referee to be relied on for the appeal,




(ix)

the appellant's statement of argument, not to exceed 10 pages, and




(x)

the respondent's statement of argument, not to exceed 10 pages.


[en. B.C. Reg. 105/2019, s. 2; am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3, s. 6.]







Appeal record to be returned



(8.9)

Unless the court otherwise orders, the appellant must retrieve the
appeal record at the conclusion of the hearing or, if the appeal is
adjourned to a date later than the following business day, after the
hearing is adjourned.

[en. B.C. Reg. 105/2019, s. 2.]







Abridgement or modification of timelines and documents required on
appeal




(8.10)

If the circumstances of an appeal require, the timelines and document
filing requirements may be abridged, extended or modified by order
under Rule 21-2 (2).

[en. B.C. Reg. 105/2019, s. 2.]






Repealed



(9)-(10)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 105/2019, s. 2.]







Appeal not to act as stay



(11)

An appeal from the decision of an associate judge or registrar is not
a stay of proceeding unless so ordered by the court or the associate
judge.

[am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3, ss. 1 and 6.]



Rule 22-8 — Searches






Search of files



(1)

Unless the court otherwise orders,




(a)

no person, other than the following, may search a registry file in
respect of a family law case:




(i)

a lawyer, whether or not a lawyer of a party;




(ii)

a party;




(iii)

a person authorized in writing by a party;




(iv)

a person authorized in writing by a party's lawyer, and




(b)

no person, other than the following, may search a registry file in
respect of a proceeding under the

Child, Family and Community Service Act

:




(i)

a party's lawyer;




(ii)

a party;




(iii)

a person authorized in writing by a party;




(iv)

a person authorized in writing by a party's lawyer.








Electronic court docket information available




(2)

Despite any other power the registrar may have to compile and retain
information, the registrar may compile and retain an index, in
electronic format or otherwise, that contains the following
information respecting proceedings referred to in subrule (1):




(a)

the parties as identified in the style of proceeding;




(b)

the case file number as set out in the style of proceeding;




(c)

the category or type of the proceeding;




(d)

the date the proceeding was started.







Access to information



(3)

Unless the court otherwise orders, any person may, in respect of a
proceeding referred to in subrule (1), have access to the information
retained in the registry under subrule (2) about that proceeding.







Limitation



(4)

Nothing in this rule requires the registrar to provide access to
information in any form or format other than the form and format in
which that information is available in the registry at the time that
the request for access is made.







Search of exhibits



(5)

The exhibits produced at the trial or hearing of a proceeding referred
to in subrule (1) must be sealed by the registrar in a secure manner
and, unless the court otherwise orders, no person other than a party's
lawyer, a party or a person authorized by a party or by a party's
lawyer may search the exhibits.







Search of agreements



(6)

Unless the court otherwise orders, no person other than a party, a
party's lawyer, a person authorized in writing by a party or a person
authorized in writing by a party's lawyer may search a separation
agreement filed under section 122 of the

Family Relations Act

.




Part 22.1 — Method of Attendance and Application Record Pilot Projects



Rule 22.1-1 — Method of Attendance Pilot Project






Method of attendance



(1)

Without limiting Rule 22-6 (2), (3), (4) or (4.1), the Chief Justice
may direct that a class of applications, conferences or hearings may
or must be attended by way of telephone, video conference or other
communication medium.

[en. B.C. Reg. 236/2022, Sch. 2, s. 1.]






Directions may be different



(2)

A direction made under subrule (1) may be different for different
registries, types of applications, conferences or hearings, classes of
persons or circumstances.

[en. B.C. Reg. 236/2022, Sch. 2, s. 1.]







Application to change method of attendance




(3)

Despite a direction made under subrule (1), on application by a party
or on its own initiative, the court may order that an application,
conference or hearing be attended in person.

[en. B.C. Reg. 236/2022, Sch. 2, s. 1.]







Application must be made by requisition




(4)

An application under subrule (3) for an order that an application,
conference or hearing be attended in person must be made by
requisition in Form F19.1.


[en. B.C. Reg. 236/2022, Sch. 2, s. 1; am. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2,
s. 23.]







Directions apply



(5)

A direction made under subrule (1) applies despite any provision of
these Supreme Court Family Rules that requires in-person attendance.

[en. B.C. Reg. 236/2022, Sch. 2, s. 1.]



Rule 22.1-2 — Electronic Transmission of Application Record Pilot
Project







Electronic transmission of application record




(1)

Despite Rule 22-4 (4) (b) and (5) (b) (ii), the Chief Justice may
direct that the application record for an application in a class of
applications may or must be transmitted electronically to a registry.

[en. B.C. Reg. 236/2022, Sch. 2, s. 1.]






Directions may be different



(2)

A direction made under subrule (1) may be different for different
registries, types of applications, classes of persons or
circumstances.

[en. B.C. Reg. 236/2022, Sch. 2, s. 1.]






Application of other rules



(3)

Rule 10-6 (14) (a) and (d), (17) and (18) does not apply to an
application record that is transmitted electronically.

[en. B.C. Reg. 236/2022, Sch. 2, s. 1.]



Part 23 — Transition



Rule 23-1 — Transition






Definitions



(1)

In this rule:


"appearance"
,

"counterclaim"

,

"requisition"

,

"statement of claim"

,

"statement of defence"

,

"statement of defence to counterclaim"

,

"statement of defence to third party notice"

,

"third party notice"

and

"writ of summons"

have the same meanings as they had in the former Supreme Court Rules;



"transitional family law case"

means a family law case that was started before July 1, 2010.








These rules apply to transitional family law cases




(2)

A transitional family law case is deemed to be a family law case
started under these Supreme Court Family Rules.








Pleadings deemed to be a notice of family claim




(3)

If the person who started a transitional family law case did so by
filing a writ of summons or a writ of summons and statement of claim,




(a)

the person is deemed to be the claimant in the family law case, and




(b)

the writ of summons is, or the writ of summons and statement of claim
collectively are, deemed to be the notice of family claim in the
family law case.








Requisition deemed to be a notice of family claim




(4)

If the person who started a transitional family law case did so by
filing a requisition,




(a)

the person is deemed to be the claimant in the family law case, and




(b)

the requisition is deemed to be the notice of family claim in the
family law case.







Petition



(5)

If the person who started a transitional family law case did so by
filing a petition,




(a)

the person is deemed to be the petitioner in the family law case, and




(b)

the petition is deemed to be a petition in the family law case.








Appearance and statement of defence deemed to be a response to
family claim




(6)

If a person filed, in a transitional family law case referred to in
subrule (3) or (4), an appearance, with or without a statement of
defence,




(a)

the person is deemed to be a respondent in the family law case, and




(b)

the appearance is, or the appearance and statement of defence
collectively are, deemed to be a response to family claim in the
family law case.








Appearance deemed to be a response to petition




(7)

If a person filed, in a transitional family law case referred to in
subrule (5), an appearance,




(a)

the person is deemed to be a petition respondent, within the meaning
of Rule 17-1, in the family law case, and




(b)

the appearance is deemed to be a response to petition in the family
law case.








Counterclaim and third party notice deemed to be counterclaim




(8)

If a person filed, in a transitional family law case referred to in
subrule (3) or (4), a counterclaim or a third party notice,




(a)

the person is deemed to be a respondent in the family law case, and




(b)

the counterclaim or third party notice is deemed to be a counterclaim
in the family law case.







Response to counterclaim



(9)

If, in response to a counterclaim or a third party notice, a person
filed in a transitional family law case referred to in subrule (3) or
(4) an appearance, with or without a statement of defence to
counterclaim or a statement of defence to third party notice,




(a)

the person is deemed to be a respondent in the transitional family law
case, and




(b)

the appearance is, the appearance and statement of defence to
counterclaim collectively are, or the appearance and statement of
defence to third party notice collectively are, deemed to be a
response to counterclaim in the transitional family law case.







Unserved writ of summons



(10)

Unless the court otherwise orders, if, before July 1, 2010, a person
filed a writ of summons, with or without a statement of claim, and
that document has not, or those documents have not, been served on a
person named as a respondent in the transitional family law case
started by that filing, Rule 4-2 applies to the filed document or
documents.







Demand for amendment



(11)

Subject to subrule (14) of this rule, a party to a family law case
referred to in this rule may, by demand in Form F99, demand that a
document that is deemed under this rule to be a notice of family
claim, response to family claim, counterclaim, response to
counterclaim, petition or response to petition be amended by the party
who filed it to make it accord with these Supreme Court Family Rules.







Party must amend



(12)

If a demand is served under subrule (11), the party on whom the demand
is served must, within 21 days after service, amend the deemed notice
of family claim, response to family claim, counterclaim, response to
counterclaim, petition or response to petition to make it accord with
these Supreme Court Family Rules and that amendment does not
constitute an amendment for the purposes of Rule 8-1 (1) (a).







Failure to amend



(13)

If a demand is served under subrule (11) of this rule and the party on
whom the demand is served does not make the amendments required under
subrule (12) within the period referred to in that subrule, the
demanding party may apply to the court for an order to strike the
deemed notice of family claim, response to family claim, counterclaim,
response to counterclaim, petition or response to petition of the
party on whom the demand is served.








No demand if final relief has been given




(14)

A demand must not be served under subrule (11) if final orders have
been made in respect of all of the claims in the family law case.







Address for service



(15)

For the purposes of Rule 6-1 of these Supreme Court Family Rules,
until a new address for service is provided for a party to a family
law case referred to in this rule, the party is deemed to have, as an
address for service in the family law case, that party's address for
delivery under the former Supreme Court Rules.







Step in ongoing proceeding



(16)

If a step in a family law case is taken before July 1, 2010, the
former Supreme Court Rules apply to any right or obligation arising
out of or relating to that step if and to the extent that that right
or obligation is to have effect before September 1, 2010.







Trial management conference



(17)

If the trial of a transitional family law case is scheduled to begin
before October 1, 2010,




(a)

a trial management conference may be held in the transitional family
law case at any time, or




(b)

if a trial management conference was not required to be held in
relation to the transitional family law case under the former Supreme
Court Rules, the trial may proceed without a trial management
conference.







Court may decide



(18)

If there is any dispute in relation to the procedure to be applied to
or followed in a family law case referred to in this rule, any party
may seek directions.




Rule 23-2 —
Family Law Act
Transitional Provisions






Transitional references



(1)

In these Supreme Court Family Rules, as they relate to a family law
case started before March 18, 2013,




(a)

a reference to relief referred to in paragraph (a), (b), (c), (d) or
(e) of the definition of "family law case" in Rule 1-1 includes
reference to relief referred to in paragraph (a), (b), (c), (d), (e),
(f) or (g) of the definition of "family law case" in Rule 1-1 as it
read before March 18, 2013,




(b)

a reference to a claim under the

Family Law Act

includes reference to a claim under the

Family Relations Act

,




(c)

a reference to a claim or relief under Part 5 of the

Family Law Act

includes reference to a claim or relief under Part 5 of the

Family Relations Act

, and




(d)

a reference to a claim or relief under Part 6 of the

Family Law Act

includes reference to a claim or relief under Part 6 of the

Family Relations Act

.

[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 27.]






Documents filed before March 18, 2013



(2)

If a document filed before March 18, 2013 contains one or more claims
for relief under the

Family Relations Act

, the court may, subject to sections 252 and 253 of the

Family Law Act

, treat the document, as it relates to those claims, as one seeking
relief under the

Family Law Act

and make one or more orders accordingly.

[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 27.]







Reports prepared before March 18, 2013




(3)

Rule 13-1 as it read before March 18, 2013 applies to any report under
section 15 of the

Family Relations Act

that was completed before March 18, 2013.

[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 27.]







References to non-final orders in documents filed before March 18,
2013




(4)

A reference in a filed pleading or other filed document to a non-final
order is deemed to be a reference to an interim order.

[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 27.]






Court may decide



(5)

If there is any dispute in relation to the procedure to be applied to
or followed in a family law case started before March 18, 2013, any
party may seek directions.

[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 27.]






Parental support



(6)

If a proceeding started before November 24, 2011 includes a claim for
parental support, the provisions of these Supreme Court Family Rules
that apply to spousal support claims apply to the claim for parental
support.

[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 27.]



Appendix A — Forms



Link to fillable forms



Appendix A — List of Forms



Form F1
— Notice of Joint Family Claim

[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 28 as am. by B.C. Reg. 67/2013, Sch., s. 1
(f); am. B.C. Regs. 105/2019, s. 3; 208/2020, s. 8; 321/2021, Sch. 2, s.
8.]



Form F1.1
— Application for Divorce Under the
Civil Marriage Act
(Canada)

[en. B.C. Reg. 4/2016, s. 3.]



Form F1.2
— Certificate of Divorce Under the
Civil Marriage Act
(Canada)

[en. B.C. Reg. 4/2016, s. 3.]



Form F2
— Notice of Withdrawal from Joint Family Law Case




Form F3
— Notice of Family Claim

[en. B.C. Reg. 4/2016, s. 4; am. B.C. Regs. 5/2021, Sch. 1, s. 1;
208/2020, s. 9; 321/2021, Sch. 2, s. 9.]



Form F4
— Response to Family Claim

[en. B.C. Reg. 4/2016, s. 4; am. B.C. Regs. 5/2021, Sch. 1, s. 2;
208/2020, s. 10.]



Form F5
— Counterclaim

[en. B.C. Reg. 4/2016, s. 4; am. B.C. Regs. 5/2021, Sch. 1, s. 3;
208/2020, s. 9.]



Form F6
— Response to Counterclaim

[am. B.C. Regs. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 28; 133/2012, s. 30; 360/2012, s.
2; 208/2020, s. 10.]



Form F7
— Notice of Withdrawal in Family Law Case in Which a Divorce Is
Claimed




Form F8
— Financial Statement

[am. B.C. Regs. 133/2012, s. 31; 5/2021, Sch. 1, s. 4; 321/2021, Sch. 2,
s. 10.]



Form F9
— Agreement as to Annual Income




Form F10
— Notice of Address for Service




Form F11
— Notice for Publication

[am. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 32.]



Form F12
— Request




Form F13
— Notice and Summary of Document




Form F14
— Certificate




Form F15
— Affidavit of Personal Service

[am. B.C. Regs. 95/2011, Sch. B, s. 7; 321/2021, Sch. 2, s. 11.]



Form F16
— Affidavit of Ordinary Service




Form F17
— Requisition — General

[am. B.C. Regs. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 29; 236/2022, Sch. 2, s. 2;
176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 24; 239/2023, Sch. 2, s. 7.]



Form F17.1
— Requisition — Filing of Agreement

[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 33, as. am. by B.C. Reg. 67/2013, s. 1 (m);
am. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 25.]



Form F17.2
— Requisition — Parenting Coordinator Determination

[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 33; am. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 26.]



Form F17.3
— Requisition — Arbitration Award

[en. B.C. Reg. 121/2014, s. 11; am. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 27.]



Form F18
— Certificate of Service by Sheriff




Form F18.1
— Requisition — General (Application)

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 28; am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 2,
s. 4 (a).]



Form F19
— Notice of Judicial Case Conference

[am. B.C. Regs. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 30; 133/2012, s. 34; 277/2023, Sch.
3, s. 5.]



Form F19.1
— Requisition — Method of Attendance

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 28; am. B.C. Regs. 239/2023, Sch. 2,
s. 8; 277/2023, Sch. 2, s. 4 (a).]



Form F19.2
— Notice of Case Planning Conference

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 28.]



Form F19.3
— Case Plan Proposal

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 28.]



Form F19.4
— Case Plan Order

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 28; am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 2,
s. 4 (b) and (c).]



Form F20
— List of Documents

[en. B.C. Reg. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 31; am. B.C. Reg. 4/2016, s. 5.]



Form F21
— Appointment to Examine for Discovery

[am. B.C. Reg. 4/2016, s. 6.]



Form F22
— Interrogatories




Form F23
— Subpoena to Witness

[am. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 35.]



Form F24
— Notice to Admit




Form F25
— Order for Examination of Persons Outside the Jurisdiction

[am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 2, s. 4 (d).]



Form F26
— Instructions to Examiner




Form F27
— Order for Issue of a Letter of Request to Judicial Authority of
Another Jurisdiction




Form F28
— Letter of Request for Examination of Witness out of Jurisdiction




Form F29
— Requisition for Consent Order or for Order Without Notice




Form F30
— Affidavit




Form F31
— Notice of Application

[am. B.C. Regs. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 32; 241/2010, Sch. B, s. 3;
133/2012, s. 36; 121/2014, s. 12; 208/2020, s. 10; 321/2021, Sch. 2, s.
12; 239/2023, Sch. 2, s. 9; 277/2023, Sch. 2, s. 4 (e) and Sch. 3, ss. 1
and 5.]



Form F32
— Application Response

[am. B.C. Regs. 208/2020, s. 10; 321/2021, Sch. 2, s. 13; 239/2023, Sch.
2, s. 10.]



Form F32.001
— Requisition — Chambers Practice

en. [B.C. Reg. 239/2023, Sch. 2, s. 11; am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 2,
s. 4 (f) and Sch. 3, s. 5.]



Form F32.01
— Requisition — Short Notice

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 28; am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 2,
s. 4 (a).]



Form F32.1
— Order Signing Instructions

[en. B.C. Reg. 149/2022, Sch. 2, s. 9; am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 2,
s. 4 (f) and (g).]



Form F33
— Consent Order

[am. B.C. Regs. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 33; 65/2013, Sch. B, s. 3;
208/2020, s. 11; 277/2023, Sch. 2, s. 4 (b).]



Form F34
— Order Made Without Notice

[am. B.C. Regs. 65/2013, Sch. B, s. 3; 208/2020, s. 11; 321/2021, Sch.
2, s. 14; 277/2023, Sch. 2, s. 4 (b).]



Form F35
— Requisition — Undefended Family Law Case

[am. B.C. Regs. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 34; 321/2021, Sch. 2, s. 15;
176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 29.]



Form F36
— Certificate

[am. B.C. Reg. 95/2011, Sch. B, s. 8.]



Form F37
— Child Support Affidavit

[en. B.C. Reg. 58/2012, Sch. B, s. 2; am. B.C. Regs. 133/2012, s. 37, as
am. B.C. Reg. 67/2013, s. 1 (n); 149/2022,
Sch. 2, s. 10.]



Form F38
— Affidavit — Desk Order Divorce

[en. B.C. Reg. 58/2012, Sch. B, s. 2; am. B.C. Regs. 133/2012, s. 38;
65/2013, Sch. B, s. 4.]



Form F39
— Notice of Discontinuance




Form F40
— Notice of Withdrawal




Form F41
— Security for Receiver




Form F42
— Security of Receiver by Undertaking




Form F43
— Notice to Cross-examine

[am. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 39.]



Form F44
— Notice of Trial

[am. B.C. Regs. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 37; 95/2011, Sch. B, s. 12;
104/2015, s. 4.]



Form F45
— Trial Brief

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 30; am. B.C. Reg. 239/2023, Sch. 2,
s. 12]



Form F46
— Trial Certificate

[am. B.C. Regs. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 38; 239/2023, Sch. 2, s. 13.]



Form F47
— Notice to Produce




Form F48
— Notice of Intention to Proceed




Form F49
— Notice of Intention to Call Adverse Party as a Witness




Form F50
— Warrant After Subpoena




Form F51
— Order Made After Application

[en. B.C. Reg. 58/2012, Sch. B, s. 2; am. B.C. Regs. 133/2012, s. 40;
65/2013, Sch. B, s. 5; 208/2020, s. 11; 277/2023, Sch. 2, s. 4 (d) and
(h).]



Form F51.1
— Order Made at Judicial Case Conference

[en. B.C. Reg. 104/2015, s. 5; am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 2, s. 4
(d).]



Form F51.2
— Order Made at Trial Management Conference

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 28; am. B.C. Regs. 239/2023, Sch. 2,
s. 14; 277/2023, Sch. 2, s. 4 (d).]



Form F52
— Final Order

[en. B.C. Reg. 58/2012, Sch. B, s. 2; am. B.C. Regs. 65/2013, Sch. B, s.
6; 121/2014, s. 14; 208/2020, s. 11; 277/2023, Sch. 2, s. 4 (d) and
(h).]



Form F53
— Repealed.

[B.C. Reg. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 39.]



Form F54
— Protection Order

[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 41; am. B.C. Regs. 149/2022, Sch. 2, s. 11;
277/2023, Sch. 2, s. 4 (d).]



Form F54.1
— Order Terminating a Protection Order

[en. B.C. Reg. 149/2022, Sch. 2, s. 12; am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 2,
s. 4 (d) and (i).]



Form F54.2
— Restraining Order

[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 41, as am. by B.C. Reg. 67/2013, s. 1 (o);
am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 2, s. 4 (d).]



Form F55
— Appointment

[am. B.C. Regs. 133/2012, s. 42; 277/2023, Sch. 2, s. 4 (j).]



Form F56
— Certificate of Divorce




Form F57
— Writ of Seizure and Sale




Form F58
— Writ of Sequestration

[am. B.C. Reg. 95/2011, Sch. B, s. 15.]



Form F59
— Writ of Possession

[am. B.C. Reg. 95/2011, Sch. B, s. 15.]



Form F60
— Writ of Delivery

[am. B.C. Reg. 95/2011, Sch. B, s. 15.]



Form F61
— Writ of Delivery or Assessed Value

[am. B.C. Reg. 95/2011, Sch. B, s. 15.]



Form F62
— Acknowledgment of Payment




Form F63
— Summons to a Default Hearing Under the Family Maintenance
Enforcement Act

[am. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 43.]



Form F64
— Summons to a Committal Hearing Under the Family Maintenance
Enforcement Act




Form F65
— Arrest Warrant




Form F66
— Subpoena to Debtor




Form F67
— Examiner's Report




Form F68
— Notice of Application for Committal




Form F69
— Order of Committal




Form F70
— Certificate of Result of Sale




Form F71
— Bill of Costs

[am. B.C. Regs. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 40; 92/2013, Sch. B.]



Form F71.1
— List of Expenses

[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 44.]



Form F72
— Certificate of Costs or Expenses

[am. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 45, as am. by B.C. Reg. 67/2013, s. 1 (p).]



Form F73
— Petition to the Court

[am. B.C. Regs. 95/2011, Sch. B, s. 16; 65/2013, Sch. B, s. 7; 208/2020,
s. 10; 239/2023, Sch. 2, s. 15; 277/2023, Sch. 2, s. 4 (e).]



Form F74
— Response to Petition

[am. B.C. Regs. 208/2020, s. 10; 321/2021, Sch. 2, s. 16.; 239/2023,
Sch. 2, s. 16]



Form F75
— Notice of Hearing

[am. B.C. Regs. 321/2021, Sch. 2, s. 16; 277/2023, Sch. 3, s. 1.]



Form F76
— Notice of Order




Form F77
— Notice of Interest

[am. B.C. Regs. 208/2020, s. 10; 321/2021, Sch. 2, s. 17.]



Form F78
— Jurisdictional Response




Form F79
— Notice of Appeal if Directions Required

[am. B.C. Regs. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 41; 95/2011, Sch. B, s. 17.]



Form F80
— Notice of Appeal — Standard Directions

[am. B.C. Regs. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 42; 95/2011, Sch. B, s. 17.]



Form F81
— Notice of Hearing of Appeal




Form F82
— Notice of Abandonment of Appeal




Form F83
— Order to Register Foreign Judgment

[am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 2, s. 4 (d).]



Form F84
— Affidavit of Attainment of Majority




Form F85
— Order to Waive Fees

[en. B.C. Reg. 58/2012, Sch. B, s. 2; am. B.C. Regs. 112/2012, Sch. B,
s. 5; 277/2023, Sch. 2, s. 4 (d).]



Form F86
— Affidavit in Support of Order to Waive Fees

[am. B.C. Regs. 95/2011, Sch. B, s. 18; 112/2012, Sch. B, s. 6.]



Form F87
— Notice of Appointment or Change of Lawyer




Form F88
— Notice of Intention to Act in Person




Form F89
— Notice of Intention to Withdraw as Lawyer

[am. B.C. Reg. 95/2011, Sch. B, s. 19.]



Form F90
— Objection




Form F91
— Notice of Withdrawal of Lawyer




Form F92
— Warrant — Contempt




Form F93
— Undertaking




Form F94
— Release Order




Form F94.1
— Requisition — Leave (Vexatious Litigant)

[en. B.C. Reg. 239/2023, Sch. 2, s. 17; am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 2,
s. 4 (f) and (k).]



Form F95
— Fax Cover Sheet

[en. B.C. 112/2012, Sch. B, s. 7; am. B.C. Regs. 105/2019, s. 4;
149/2022, Sch. 2, s. 13; 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 31.]



Form F96
— Electronic Filing Statement

[am. B.C. Reg. 112/2012, Sch. B, s. 8.]



Form F97
— Declaration




Form F98
— Notice of Appeal from Associate Judge, Registrar or Special Referee

[am. B.C. Regs. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 44; 105/2019, s. 5; 208/2020, s.
10; 321/2021, Sch. 2, s. 18; 277/2023, Sch. 2, s. 4 (l).]



Form F98.1
— Appellant's Statement of Argument

[en. B.C. Reg. 105/2019, s. 6; am. B.C. Reg. 239/2023, Sch. 2, s. 18.]



Form F98.2
— Respondent's Statement of Argument

[en. B.C. Reg. 105/2019, s. 6; am. B.C. Reg. 239/2023, Sch. 2, s. 19.]



Form F99
— Demand




Form F100
— Certificate of Mediation

[en. B.C. Reg. 95/2011, Sch. B, s. 21.]



Form F101
— Affidavit

[en. B.C. Reg. 41/2013, s. 9.]



Form F102
— Statement of Information for Corollary Relief Proceedings

[en. B.C. Reg. 208/2020, s. 12, as am. by B.C. Reg. 5/2021,
Sch. 2.]














Form F1 (Rule 2-2 (2) )





Court File No.: .........................


Court Registry: ..........................





In the Supreme Court of British Columbia





Claimant 1:


Claimant 2:





NOTICE OF JOINT FAMILY CLAIM



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]






1 Relationship history

[Check the correct box(es) and complete the required
information.]









Claimant 1 and Claimant 2:

[ ] began to live together in a marriage-like relationship on
................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


[ ] were married on ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]................. at ................[
city or town; province or state; country
]


[ ] separated on ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


[ ] were divorced from each other by order made on
................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................

[ ] were never married








2 Divorce
[
Complete if you are asking for a divorce order.
]








[ ] Claimant 1 and Claimant 2 are asking for a divorce order.




A Personal information:




Claimant 1
Claimant 2



Birthdate: [
dd/mmm/yyyy
]






Habitually resident in British Columbia since: [
dd/mmm/yyyy
]





Surname at birth:




Surname immediately before marriage:





Marital status immediately before marriage:


[ ] never married

[ ] divorced

[ ] widowed


[ ] never married

[ ] divorced

[ ] widowed




Place of marriage: [
city or town; province or state; country
]






B Grounds for claim for divorce:



[

If divorce is claimed as a result of having lived separate and
apart, complete paragraph (i).

]


(i)  [ ]  Claimant 1 and Claimant 2 have
lived separate and apart since .............[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................



AND



[

Check whichever one of the following boxes is correct and
complete any required information.

]


[ ] Claimant 1 and Claimant 2 have not lived together since then


[ ] Claimant 1 and Claimant 2 have lived together again during
the following period(s), in an unsuccessful attempt to
reconcile: ...............[
give dates of period(s)
]...............



[

If divorce is claimed on grounds other than having lived
separate and apart, complete paragraph (ii) by checking both
of the following boxes and completing the required
information.

]


(ii)  [ ]  Other grounds, under section 8
(2) (b) of the
Divorce Act
(Canada):


[ ] Adultery (the respondent has committed adultery)


[ ] Cruelty (the respondent has treated the applicant with
physical or mental cruelty of such a kind as to make continued
cohabitation intolerable)


AND



[ ] There has been no condonation of any act relied on under
section 8 (2) (b) of the
Divorce Act
(Canada) as a ground for divorce.








C  Claimant 1 and Claimant 2 confirm that:

[
Check both of the following boxes.
]



[ ] There is no possibility of reconciliation.


[ ] I do not know about and I am not involved in any
arrangement to make up or to hide evidence or to deceive the
court to obtain a divorce.






D  Proof of marriage:
[

Check whichever one of the following boxes is correct and
complete any required information.

]


[ ] A certificate of marriage or registration of marriage
has been filed.


[ ] A certificate of marriage or registration of marriage
is not being filed with this notice of joint family claim
because ...............[
state the reasons
]...............

and the certificate will be filed before this claim is set down
for trial or an application is made for an order of divorce.


[ ] It is impossible to obtain a certificate of marriage or
registration of marriage because: ...............[
state the reasons
]............... .









3 Information concerning children
[

Check whichever one of the following boxes is correct and
complete any required information

.]









Children:


[ ] There are no children of the marriage, as defined
by the
Divorce Act
(Canada), or children of whom Claimant 1 and Claimant 2 are
parents within the meaning of the
Family Law Act
.

[OR]

[ ] There are no children of the marriage, as defined
by the
Divorce Act
(Canada), or children of whom Claimant 1 and Claimant 2 are
parents within the meaning of the
Family Law Act
, and those children are:


Full name:                                                                Birth date: [
dd/mmm/yyyy
]                                                                Resides
with:











4 Orders asked for in relation to children
[

Complete section 4 for those children in relation to whom you
are asking for an order.

]









A [ ] Claimant 1 and Claimant 2 are asking for
the following order respecting arrangements for parenting or
contact: ...............[
set out terms of proposed order
]...............


B [ ] Claimant 1 and Claimant 2 are asking for an
order for child support as follows: ...............[
set out terms of proposed order
]...............


C [ ] Claimant 1 and Claimant 2 are asking for
the orders under paragraphs A and B of this section under the
following statute(s): [

Check one or both of the following boxes, as applicable.

]


[ ] the
Divorce Act
(Canada)      [ ] the
Family Law Act









5 Spousal support
[

Complete section 5 if you are asking for an order for spousal
support.

]









[ ] Claimant 1 and Claimant 2 are asking for an order
for spousal support as follows: ...............[
set out terms of proposed order
]...............


[ ] Claimant 1 and Claimant 2 are asking for an order
for spousal support under [

Check one or both of the following boxes, as applicable.

]


[ ] the
Divorce Act
(Canada)      [ ] the
Family Law Act









6 Property and debt
[

Complete section 6 if you are asking for an order in relation to
property or debt.

]









A Property claims under the
Family Law Act


[ ] Claimant 1 and Claimant 2 are asking for an order
for:


[

Check whichever one of the following boxes is correct and
complete any required information in relation to family
property and family debt, as those terms are defined in the
Family Law Act.

]


[ ] an equal division of family property and family
debt


[ ] an unequal division of family property and family
debt as follows: ............[
set out details of proposed division
].............

B Other property claims

[ ] Claimant 1 and Claimant 2 ask for an order
respecting an interest in property or for compensation instead
of an interest in that property, as follows:


..............................................................................................................................................................









7 Other
[

Complete section 7 if you are asking for any other order.

]








[ ] Claimant 1 and Claimant 2 are asking for an order in
the following terms: ...............[
set out terms of proposed order
] ..........








8 Claimants' addresses for service
[

Set out the street address of the address for service. One or
both of a fax number and an e-mail address may be given as
additional addresses for service.

]








Claimant 1:


Fax
(optional)            E-mail
(optional)


Claimant 2:


Fax
(optional)            E-mail
(optional)









Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

Signature of

[ ] Claimant 1 [ ] lawyer for Claimant 1


...........................[
type or print name
]..........................







Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

Signature of

[ ] Claimant 2 [ ] lawyer for Claimant 2


...........................[
type or print name
]..........................














If in this family law case a claim is made under the Family Law
Act and one or both of the parties is represented by a lawyer,
each of the lawyers must complete a certificate in the following
form.












LAWYER'S CERTIFICATE (
Family Law Act
, s. 8 (2))







I, ................................, lawyer for
................[
name of party
]................ certify that, in accordance with section 8 (2)
of the
Family Law Act
, I have


(a) discussed with the party the advisability of using various
types of family dispute resolution to resolve the matter, and


(b) informed the party of the facilities and other resources,
known to me, that may be available to assist in resolving the
dispute.









Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

Signature of lawyer


...........................[
type or print name
]..........................














The following certificate must be completed by each party to a
divorce claim.












PARTY'S CERTIFICATE (
Divorce Act
(Canada), s. 7.6)






[  ]


By checking this box, I, ................[
name of party
]................, certify that I am aware of my duties under
sections 7.1 to 7.5 of the
Divorce Act
(Canada), which say:




7.1


A person to whom parenting time or decision-making responsibility
has been allocated in respect of a child of the marriage or who
has contact with that child under a contact order shall exercise
that time, responsibility or contact in a manner that is
consistent with the best interests of the child.




7.2


A party to a proceeding under this Act shall, to the best of their
ability, protect any child of the marriage from conflict arising
from the proceeding.




7.3


To the extent that it is appropriate to do so, the parties to a
proceeding shall try to resolve the matters that may be the
subject of an order under this Act through a family dispute
resolution process.




7.4


A party to a proceeding under this Act or a person who is subject
to an order made under this Act shall provide complete, accurate
and up-to-date information if required to do so under this Act.




7.5


For greater certainty, a person who is subject to an order made
under this Act shall comply with the order until it is no longer
in effect.














The following certificate must be completed for each party to a
divorce claim who is represented by a legal adviser.












LEGAL ADVISER'S CERTIFICATE (
Divorce Act
(Canada), s. 7.7 (3))






[  ]


By checking this box, I, ................................, legal
adviser for ................[
name of party
]................, certify that I have complied with section 7.7
of the
Divorce Act
(Canada), which says:



7.7

(1) Unless the circumstances of the case are of such a nature that
it would clearly not be appropriate to do so, it is the duty of
every legal adviser who undertakes to act on a spouse's behalf in
a divorce proceeding






(a) to draw to the attention of the spouse the provisions of this
Act that have as their object the reconciliation of spouses; and






(b) to discuss with the spouse the possibility of the
reconciliation of the spouses and to inform the spouse of the
marriage counselling or guidance facilities known to the legal
adviser that might be able to assist the spouses to achieve a
reconciliation.





(2) It is also the duty of every legal adviser who undertakes to
act on a person's behalf in any proceeding under this Act






(a) to encourage the person to attempt to resolve the matters that
may be the subject of an order under this Act through a family
dispute resolution process, unless the circumstances of the case
are of such a nature that it would clearly not be appropriate to
do so;






(b) to inform the person of the family justice services known to
the legal adviser that might assist the person







(i) in resolving the matters that may be the subject of an order
under this Act, and







(ii) in complying with any order or decision made under this Act;
and






(c) to inform the person of the parties' duties under this Act.
















Form F1.1 (Rule 2-2.1 (1) )





Court File No.:........................


Court Registry:........................





In the Supreme Court of British Columbia




Spouse 1:






Spouse 2:





APPLICATION FOR DIVORCE UNDER THE
CIVIL MARRIAGE ACT
(CANADA)




[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]







1 Marriage information
[
Complete the required information.
]








Spouse 1 and Spouse 2 were married on ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


The place of marriage was ................[
city or town
]................., British Columbia.








2 Residence
[
Complete the required information.
]








Spouse 1 currently resides in ................[
city or town; province or state; country
]................. and has done so since

................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


Spouse 2 currently resides in ................[
city or town; province or state; country
]................. and has done so since

................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]..................








3 Basis of application
[
Complete the required information.
]








Spouse 1 and Spouse 2 live separate and apart and have done so
since

................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]..................








This application is made: [

Check whichever one of the following boxes is correct and follow
the applicable instructions.

]








[ ] by Spouse 1 and Spouse 2 jointly [

attach joint affidavit, or affidavit of each spouse, respecting
the grounds for divorce under section 7 (1) of the Civil
Marriage Act (Canada)

]




[ ] by Spouse 1 with the consent of Spouse 2 [

attach affidavit of Spouse 1 respecting the grounds for divorce
under section 7 (1) of the Civil Marriage Act (Canada) and an
affidavit of Spouse 2 providing evidence of consent to the
proceedings

]




[ ] by Spouse 1 with an order referred to in section 7 (2) of the
Civil Marriage Act
(Canada) [

attach affidavit of Spouse 1 respecting the grounds for divorce
under section 7 (1) of the Civil Marriage Act (Canada) and a
copy of that order

]









Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

Signature of

[ ] Spouse 1 [ ] lawyer for Spouse 1


...........................[
type or print name
]..........................







Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

Signature of

[ ] Spouse 2 [ ] lawyer for Spouse 2


...........................[
type or print name
]..........................














Signature of Spouse 2 or lawyer for Spouse 2 required only on a
joint application.






















Form F1.2 (Rule 2-2.1 (2) )





Court File No.: .........................


Court Registry: ..........................





In the Supreme Court of British Columbia




Spouse 1:






Spouse 2:





CERTIFICATE OF DIVORCE UNDER THE
CIVIL MARRIAGE ACT
(CANADA)




[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]







This is to certify that ........[
name
]........ and ........[
name
]........, who were married at ........[
place
]........ on ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........, were divorced under the
Civil Marriage Act
(Canada) by an order of this court which took effect and dissolved
the marriage on ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]......... .









GIVEN under my hand and the seal of this court


Date: ......................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].......................


.............................................................................

Registrar
















Form F2 (Rule 2-2 (3) )





Court File No.: .........................


Court Registry: ..........................





In the Supreme Court of British Columbia




Claimant 1:






Claimant 2:




NOTICE OF WITHDRAWAL FROM JOINT FAMILY LAW CASE



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]







TAKE NOTICE that ................[
party
]................ withdraws from this joint family law case.






Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................



..................................................................................

Signature of

[ ] filing party [ ] lawyer for filing party


...........................[
type or print name
]..........................
















Form F3 (Rule 4-1 (1) )





Court File No.:........................


Court Registry:........................





In the Supreme Court of British Columbia




Claimant:






Respondent:




NOTICE OF FAMILY CLAIM



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]








This family law case has been started by the claimant(s) for the
relief set out in section 4 below.






If you intend to respond to this family law case, you or your
lawyer must






(a) file a response to family claim in Form F4 in the
above-named registry of this court within 30 days after the date
on which this copy of the filed notice of family claim was
served on you, and






(b) serve a copy of the filed response to family claim on the
claimant.






If you intend to make a counterclaim, you or your lawyer must






(a) file a response to family claim in Form F4 and a
counterclaim in Form F5 in the above-named registry of this
court within 30 days after the date on which this copy of the
filed notice of family claim was served on you, and






(b) serve a copy of the filed response to family claim and
counterclaim on the claimant and on any new parties named in the
counterclaim.






Orders, including orders granting the relief claimed, may be
made against you if you fail to file the response to family
claim within the 30 day period referred to above.









1 Information about the parties








[
Complete the following for each claimant.
]


The claimant, ................[
name
]................, is ...............[

briefly indicate this person's relationship to other parties to
this family law case

]...............


[
Complete the following for each respondent
.]


The respondent, ................[
name
]................, is ...............[

briefly indicate this person's relationship to other parties to
this family law case

]...............








2 Spousal relationship history
[

Complete this section if a claimant and a respondent are or have
been married or are or have been in a marriage-like
relationship.

]









[

Check the correct box(es) and complete the required
information.

]


The claimant ..................[
name of claimant
].................. and the respondent ...................[
name of respondent
] .................


[ ] began to live together in a marriage-like relationship on
................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


[ ] were married on ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]................. at ................[
city or town; province or state; country
]


[ ] separated on ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


[ ] were divorced from each other by order made on
................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................









3 Prior court proceedings and agreements
[

Check the correct box(es) and complete any required information.

]









[ ] There is no prior agreement, court order or court proceeding
relating to any of the claims made in this notice of family
claim.


[ ] One or more of the following relates to claims made in this
notice of family claim:


[ ] a written agreement dated ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


[ ] a court order dated ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


[ ] a prior court proceeding: ..........[
file number and court registry
]..........









4 The claimant's claims
[

Check the correct box(es) and complete and attach the required
Schedules.

]









The claimant is asking for the following:


[ ] An order for divorce — [
complete and attach Schedule 1
]


[ ] An order respecting child(ren) — [
complete and attach Schedule 2
]


[ ] An order for spousal support — [
complete and attach Schedule 3
]


[ ] An order relating to family property and family debt — [
complete and attach Schedule 4
]


[ ] Another order — [
complete and attach Schedule 5
]

[ ] An order for costs

[ ] An order to [ ] confirm or [ ] set aside [

check whichever one of the following boxes is correct and
complete the required information

] a written agreement dated ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]................. in respect of

[ ] spousal support
[ ] child support
[ ] division of property and/or debt
[ ] other

for the following reasons:


..........................................................................................,









5 Place of trial will be:
................[
name of registry
]................




6 The address of the registry is:
................[
address of registry
]................




7 The claimant's address for service is
[

Set out the street address of the address for service. One or
both of a fax number and an e-mail address may be given as
additional addresses for service.

]








Address for Service:


Fax
(optional)                                        E-mail
(optional)










Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

Signature of

[ ] claimant [ ] lawyer for claimant(s)


...........................[
type or print name
]..........................









Note to Claimant AND Respondent:
you must file
financial information
(Form F8) if any of the following apply:


• there is a claim against you for spousal support or you
are claiming spousal support;


• there is a claim by either party for the division of
property and/or debts under Part 5 or 6 of the
Family Law Act
;


• there is a claim against you for the support of a child,
OR


• you are claiming child support
unless all
of the following conditions apply:


(a) you are making no claim for any other kind of support;


(b) the child support is for children who are not
stepchildren;


(c) none of the children for whom child support is claimed
is 19 years of age or older;


(d) the income of the person being asked to pay child
support is under $150 000 per year;


(e) you are not applying for special expenses under section
7 of the child support guidelines;


(f) you are not applying for an order under section 8 of
the child support guidelines;


(g) you are not applying for an order under section 9 of
the child support guidelines;


(h) you are not making a claim based on undue hardship
under section 10 of the child support guidelines.



If you do not file the financial information that is required,
the court may attribute an amount of income to you, and make a
support award against you, based on that amount.















If in this family law case a claim is made under the Family Law
Act and the claimant is represented by a lawyer, the lawyer must
complete the following certificate.












LAWYER'S CERTIFICATE (
Family Law Act,
s. 8 (2) )






I, ................................, lawyer for ................[
name of party
]................, certify that, in accordance with section 8 (2)
of the
Family Law Act
, I have






(a) discussed with the party the advisability of using various
types of family dispute resolution to resolve the matter, and






(b) informed the party of the facilities and other resources,
known to me, that may be available to assist in resolving the
dispute.








Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

Signature of lawyer


...........................[
type or print name
]..........................




Form F3 (Rule 4-1 (1) )

SCHEDULE 1 — DIVORCE





1 Personal Information








Claimant
Respondent





Birthdate: [
dd/mmm/yyyy
]






Habitually resident in British Columbia since:

[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]





Surname at birth:





Surname immediately before marriage:






Marital status immediately before marriage:


[ ] never married

[ ] divorced

[ ] widowed


[ ] never married

[ ] divorced

[ ] widowed




Place of marriage: [
city or town; province or state; country
]









2 Grounds for the claimant's claim for divorce









[ ] The claimant asks for an order for divorce on these grounds:


[

If divorce is claimed as a result of having lived separate and
apart, complete paragraph (i).

]


(i) [ ] The claimant and his or her spouse have lived separate
and apart since................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


AND


[

Check whichever one of the following boxes is correct and
complete any required information.

]


[ ] the claimant and his or her spouse have not lived together
since then


[ ] the claimant and his or her spouse have lived together again
during the following period(s), in an unsuccessful attempt


to reconcile: ................[
give dates of period(s)
]................


[

If divorce is claimed on grounds other than having lived
separate and apart, complete paragraph (ii) by checking both
of the following boxes and completing the required
information.

]


(ii) [ ]
Other grounds
, under section 8 (2) (b) of the
Divorce Act
(Canada):


[ ] Adultery (the respondent has committed adultery)


[ ] Cruelty (the respondent has treated the applicant with
physical or mental cruelty of such a kind as to make continued
cohabitation intolerable)


AND


[ ] The claimant has not condoned any act relied on under
section 8 (2) (b) of the
Divorce Act
(Canada) as a ground for divorce.









3 The claimant confirms that: [

The claimant seeking an order for divorce must check both of the
following boxes.

]








[ ] There is no possibility of reconciliation.

[ ] I do not know about and I am not involved in any arrangement
to make up or to hide evidence or to deceive the court to obtain
a divorce.









4 Proof of marriage [

Check whichever one of the following boxes is correct and
complete any required information.

]









[ ] A certificate of marriage or of registration of marriage has
been filed


[ ] A certificate of marriage or of registration of marriage is
not being filed with this notice of family claim because
...............[
state the reasons
]..............., and the certificate will be filed before this
claim is set down for trial or an application is made for an
order of divorce


[ ] It is impossible to obtain a certificate of marriage or of
registration of marriage because:


...............[
state the reasons
]...............









5 Children [

Check whichever one of the following boxes is correct and
complete any required information.

]









[ ] There are no children of the marriage as defined by the
Divorce Act
(Canada)

[ ] The children of the marriage are:

Full
name:
Birthdate: [
dd/mmm/yyyy
]
Resides with:

















The following certificate must be completed by each party to a
divorce claim.












PARTY'S CERTIFICATE (
Divorce Act
(Canada), s. 7.6)






[  ]


By checking this box, I, ................[
name of party
]................, certify that I am aware of my duties under
sections 7.1 to 7.5 of the
Divorce Act
(Canada), which say:




7.1


A person to whom parenting time or decision-making responsibility
has been allocated in respect of a child of the marriage or who
has contact with that child under a contact order shall exercise
that time, responsibility or contact in a manner that is
consistent with the best interests of the child.




7.2


A party to a proceeding under this Act shall, to the best of their
ability, protect any child of the marriage from conflict arising
from the proceeding.




7.3


To the extent that it is appropriate to do so, the parties to a
proceeding shall try to resolve the matters that may be the
subject of an order under this Act through a family dispute
resolution process.




7.4


A party to a proceeding under this Act or a person who is subject
to an order made under this Act shall provide complete, accurate
and up-to-date information if required to do so under this Act.




7.5


For greater certainty, a person who is subject to an order made
under this Act shall comply with the order until it is no longer
in effect.














The following certificate must be completed for each party to a
divorce claim who is represented by a legal adviser.












LEGAL ADVISER'S CERTIFICATE (
Divorce Act
(Canada), s. 7.7 (3))






[  ]


By checking this box, I, ................................, legal
adviser for ................[
name of party
]................, certify that I have complied with section 7.7
of the
Divorce Act
(Canada), which says:



7.7

(1) Unless the circumstances of the case are of such a nature that
it would clearly not be appropriate to do so, it is the duty of
every legal adviser who undertakes to act on a spouse's behalf in
a divorce proceeding






(a) to draw to the attention of the spouse the provisions of this
Act that have as their object the reconciliation of spouses; and






(b) to discuss with the spouse the possibility of the
reconciliation of the spouses and to inform the spouse of the
marriage counselling or guidance facilities known to the legal
adviser that might be able to assist the spouses to achieve a
reconciliation.





(2) It is also the duty of every legal adviser who undertakes to
act on a person's behalf in any proceeding under this Act






(a) to encourage the person to attempt to resolve the matters that
may be the subject of an order under this Act through a family
dispute resolution process, unless the circumstances of the case
are of such a nature that it would clearly not be appropriate to
do so;






(b) to inform the person of the family justice services known to
the legal adviser that might assist the person







(i) in resolving the matters that may be the subject of an order
under this Act, and







(ii) in complying with any order or decision made under this Act;
and






(c) to inform the person of the parties' duties under this Act.




Form F3 (Rule 4-1 (1) )

SCHEDULE 2 — CHILDREN





1 Identification of child(ren)




The claimant is asking for an order in respect of the following
child or children:








Child's full legal name


Child's birthdate

[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]


Child's

relationship to

the claimant


Child's

relationship to

the respondent


Child habitually

resident in BC

since

[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]


Child now

living with
























































2 Orders sought









The claimant is asking for the following order(s): [

Check the correct box(es) and complete the required
information.

]


[ ] an order respecting arrangements for parenting for a child
or children [
Complete sections 3 and 4 below.
]


[ ] an order for child support [
Complete sections 5 to 7 below.
]









3 Current arrangements for parenting








Current arrangements for parenting are:














4 Proposed arrangements for parenting









The claimant proposes the following arrangements for parenting:


...............[

set out terms of proposed order sought in relation to
arrangements for parenting, including custody, guardianship,
parenting arrangements or contact with a child

]...............


The claimant is asking for this order under [

Check one or both of the following boxes, as applicable.

]


[ ] the
Divorce Act
(Canada)
[ ] the
Family Law Act









5 Current child support arrangements








Current child support arrangements are:















6 Income of person being asked to pay child support

[

Check whichever one of the following boxes is correct and
complete any required information.

]









[ ] The claimant does not know the income of the person being
asked to pay child support


[ ] The claimant believes that the income of the person being
asked to pay child support is $...............,

based on these facts:

............................................................................................................................................................


............................................................................................................................................................









7 Proposed child support arrangements
[

Check the correct box(es) and complete the required information.

]








The claimant is asking for:


[ ] support in the amount set out in the child support
guidelines table, commencing on .......... [
date
] ........, for the following child(ren): ...............[
name(s) and date(s) of birth of child(ren)
]...............


[ ] special or extraordinary expenses in accordance with section
7 of the child support guidelines, commencing on ........[
date
]........., for the following child(ren): ...............[
name(s) and date(s) of birth of child(ren)
]...............


[ ] an order for support in an amount different than the amount
set out in the child support guidelines table, commencing on
........[
date
]........., for the following child(ren): ..........[
name(s) and date(s) of birth of child(ren)
]..........


The claimant is asking for an order for child support under [

Check one or both of the following boxes, as applicable

]


[ ] the
Divorce Act
(Canada)
[ ] the
Family Law Act





Form F3 (Rule 4-1 (1) )

SCHEDULE 3 — SPOUSAL SUPPORT





1 Current arrangements for spousal support








Current spousal support arrangements are:














2 Proposed spousal support arrangements
[

Check the correct box(es) and complete the required information.

]









[ ] The claimant is asking for an order for spousal support as
follows: ...............[

set out terms of proposed order sought in relation to spousal
support

]...............


[ ] The claimant is asking for an order for spousal support
under [

Check one or both of the following boxes, as applicable.

]


[ ] the
Divorce Act
(Canada)
[ ] the
Family Law Act









3 Income of claimant and respondent









The claimant's gross annual income is $..........,


[

Check whichever one of the following boxes is correct and
complete any required information.

]


[ ] The claimant does not know what the respondent's income is


[ ] The claimant believes that the respondent's gross annual
income is $.........., based on these facts:


.............................................................................................................................................................


.............................................................................................................................................................










Note to Claimant AND Respondent:
You must file
financial information
(Form F8) if there is a claim by you or against you for spousal
support.


If you do not file the financial information that is required,
the court may attribute an amount of income to you and make a
support award against you, based on that amount.





Form F3 (Rule 4-1 (1) )

SCHEDULE 4 — PROPERTY





1 The claimant's claims










A. Property and debt claims under the
Family Law Act



[

Check whichever one of the following boxes is correct and
complete any required information in relation to family
property and family debt, as those terms are defined in the
Family Law Act.

]

The claimant is asking for an order for:

[ ] equal division of family property and family debt


[ ] unequal division of family property and family debt, as
follows and on the following grounds:


...............[

set out details of proposed unequal division and the grounds
on which it is made

]...............


Identify any relevant debt to the extent that it is known at
this time:



...................................................................................................................................................................


The address and legal description of any real property (land and
buildings) in which the claimant claims an interest as a family
property is:



..................................................................................................................................................................


The claimant pleads the following property as excluded from
family property under section 85 of the
Family Law Act
(explain the basis for the exclusion):



...................................................................................................................................................................


B. Other property claims


[

Check the correct box(es) and complete the required
information.

]

The claimant claims:
[ ] occupancy rent / occupational rent

[ ] an interest in the following property: ...............[

specify every interest claimed in property and if an interest
is claimed in real property, provide the address and legal
description of that real property

] ..........................


[ ] an order for compensation instead of an interest in the
property described as .......................[

identify every property for which compensation is claimed and
if compensation is claimed for real property, provide the
address and legal description of that real property

]...................................................................................


on the following grounds: ...............[

set out the grounds on which any claim under this paragraph
for interest or compensation is based

].........................................................................................................................









2 Certificate of Pending Litigation








[ ] The claimant is applying for a Certificate of Pending
Litigation to be registered against the following real property
(land or building): ...............[

provide the legal description of every real property against
which a Certificate of Pending Litigation is to be registered

]...............




Form F3 (Rule 4-1 (1) )

SCHEDULE 5 — OTHER ORDERS






The claimant is asking for the following orders:


[

Check the correct box(es) and complete the required
information.

]


[ ] an order under the
Name Act
that the claimant's name be changed from ................[
current full legal name
]................ to ................[
full new name
]................


[ ] the following additional orders under the
Family Law Act
[

Using numbered paragraphs, set out any orders sought under the
Family Law Act that are not referred to in Schedules 1 to 4
and the sections of that Act under which those orders are
sought.

]

1
2



[ ] other orders [

Using numbered paragraphs, set out terms of other proposed
orders and the authority under which those orders are sought.

]

1
2


















Form F4 (Rule 4-3 (1) )





Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

RESPONSE TO FAMILY CLAIM



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all
forms]



Filed by:
................[
party(ies)
]................










1 Response to information in notice of family claim:













My position regarding the information set out in the
notice of family claim is as follows: [

Check the correct box(es) and complete the required
information.

]





[ ] The information set out in sections 1, 2 and 3 of the
notice of family claim is correct.





[ ] The information set out in sections 1, 2 and 3 of the
notice of family claim is not correct in the following
respects:...............[

identify the information you say is not correct and set
out the information you say is correct

]...............




[ ] Schedule 1:





[ ] The information set out in sections 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5
of Schedule 1 to the notice of family claim is correct.





[ ] The information set out in sections 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5
of Schedule 1 to the notice of family claim is not correct
in the following respects: ...............[

identify the information you say is not correct and set
out the information you say is correct

]...............




[ ] Schedule 2:





[ ] The information set out in sections 1, 3, 5 and 6 of
Schedule 2 to the notice of family claim is correct.





[ ] The information set out in sections 1, 3, 5 and 6 of
Schedule 2 to the notice of family claim is not correct in
the following respects: ...............[

identify the information you say is not correct and set
out the information you say is correct

]...............




[ ] Schedule 3:





[ ] The information set out in sections 1 and 3 of
Schedule 3 to the notice of family claim is correct.





[ ] The information set out in sections 1 and 3 of
Schedule 3 to the notice of family claim is not correct in
the following respects: ...............[

identify the information you say is not correct and set
out the information you say is correct

]...............












2 Response to claims in notice of family claim:













This is my response to claims made against me in the
Schedules to the counterclaim:





[

For each of the claims identified below that are made in
the counterclaim, indicate whether you agree or disagree
with that claim by checking the correct box opposite
that claim.

]




Claim for divorce (Schedule 1, section 2)

[ ] Agree [ ] Disagree



If you disagree, briefly explain why:






Parenting arrangements (Schedule 2, section 4)

[ ] Agree [ ] Disagree



If you disagree, briefly explain why:






Child support (Schedule 2, section 7)

[ ] Agree [ ] Disagree



If you disagree, briefly explain why:






Spousal support (Schedule 3, section 2)

[ ] Agree [ ] Disagree



If you disagree, briefly explain why:






Division of family property and family debt (Schedule 4,
section 1)

[ ] Agree [ ] Disagree



If you disagree, briefly explain why:






Other property claim(s) (Schedule 4, section 1)

[ ] Agree [ ] Disagree



If you disagree, briefly explain why:






Other orders (Schedule 5) [

identify each claim made in Schedule 5 of the notice of
family claim and indicate whether you agree or disagree
with that claim by checking the correct box opposite
that claim

]






[
claim
]


[ ] Agree [ ] Disagree



If you disagree, briefly explain why:







[
claim
]


[ ] Agree [ ] Disagree



If you disagree, briefly explain why:














3 My address for service is
[

Set out the street address of the address for service. One or
both of a fax number and an e-mail address may be given as
additional addresses for service.

]








Address for Service:


Fax
(optional)                                               E-mail
(optional)












Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

Signature of

[ ] filing party [ ] lawyer for filing party(ies)


...........................[
type or print name
]..........................








Note to Claimant AND Respondent:
You must file
financial information
(Form F8) if any of the following apply:


• there is a claim against you for spousal support or you
are claiming spousal support;


• there is a claim by either party for the division of
property and/or debts under Part 5 or 6 of the
Family Law Act
;


• there is a claim against you for the support of a child,
OR


• you are claiming child support
unless all
of the following conditions apply:


(a) you are making no claim for any other kind of support;


(b) the child support is for children who are not stepchildren;


(c) none of the children for whom child support is claimed is 19
years of age or older;


(d) the income of the person being asked to pay child support is
under $150 000 per year;


(e) you are not applying for special expenses under section 7 of
the child support guidelines;


(f) you are not applying for an order under section 8 of the
child support guidelines;


(g) you are not applying for an order under section 9 of the
child support guidelines;


(h) you are not making a claim based on undue hardship under
section 10 of the child support guidelines.




If you do not file the financial information that is required,
the court may attribute an amount of income to you, and make a
support award against you, based on that amount.















If in this family law case a claim is made under the Family Law
Act and the respondent is

represented by a lawyer, the lawyer must complete the following
certificate.












LAWYER'S CERTIFICATE (
Family Law Act
, s. 8 (2) )







I, ................................, lawyer for
................[
name of party
]................, certify that, in accordance with section 8
(2) of the
Family Law Act
, I have


(a) discussed with the party the advisability of using various
types of family dispute resolution to resolve the matter, and


(b) informed the party of the facilities and other resources,
known to me, that may be available to assist in resolving the
dispute.










Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

Signature of lawyer


...........................[
type or print name
]..........................














The following certificate must be completed by each party to a
divorce claim.












PARTY'S CERTIFICATE (
Divorce Act
(Canada), s. 7.6)






[  ]


By checking this box, I, ................[
name of party
]................, certify that I am aware of my duties under
sections 7.1 to 7.5 of the
Divorce Act
(Canada), which say:




7.1


A person to whom parenting time or decision-making responsibility
has been allocated in respect of a child of the marriage or who
has contact with that child under a contact order shall exercise
that time, responsibility or contact in a manner that is
consistent with the best interests of the child.




7.2


A party to a proceeding under this Act shall, to the best of their
ability, protect any child of the marriage from conflict arising
from the proceeding.




7.3


To the extent that it is appropriate to do so, the parties to a
proceeding shall try to resolve the matters that may be the
subject of an order under this Act through a family dispute
resolution process.




7.4


A party to a proceeding under this Act or a person who is subject
to an order made under this Act shall provide complete, accurate
and up-to-date information if required to do so under this Act.




7.5


For greater certainty, a person who is subject to an order made
under this Act shall comply with the order until it is no longer
in effect.














The following certificate must be completed for each party to a
divorce claim who is represented by a legal adviser.












LEGAL ADVISER'S CERTIFICATE (
Divorce Act
(Canada), s. 7.7 (3))






[  ]


By checking this box, I, ................................, legal
adviser for ................[
name of party
]................, certify that I have complied with section 7.7
of the
Divorce Act
(Canada), which says:



7.7

(1) Unless the circumstances of the case are of such a nature that
it would clearly not be appropriate to do so, it is the duty of
every legal adviser who undertakes to act on a spouse's behalf in
a divorce proceeding






(a) to draw to the attention of the spouse the provisions of this
Act that have as their object the reconciliation of spouses; and






(b) to discuss with the spouse the possibility of the
reconciliation of the spouses and to inform the spouse of the
marriage counselling or guidance facilities known to the legal
adviser that might be able to assist the spouses to achieve a
reconciliation.





(2) It is also the duty of every legal adviser who undertakes to
act on a person's behalf in any proceeding under this Act






(a) to encourage the person to attempt to resolve the matters that
may be the subject of an order under this Act through a family
dispute resolution process, unless the circumstances of the case
are of such a nature that it would clearly not be appropriate to
do so;






(b) to inform the person of the family justice services known to
the legal adviser that might assist the person







(i) in resolving the matters that may be the subject of an order
under this Act, and







(ii) in complying with any order or decision made under this Act;
and






(c) to inform the person of the parties' duties under this Act.
















Form F5 (Rule 4-4 (2) )





Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

COUNTERCLAIM



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all
forms.]



Filed by:
................[
party(ies)
]................ (the "respondent")



This counterclaim has been made by the above-named
respondent(s) for the relief set out in section 1 below.



If you intend to respond to this counterclaim, you or your
lawyer must


(a) file a response to counterclaim in Form F6 in the
above-named registry of this court within 30 days after the date
on which a copy of the filed counterclaim was served on you, and


(b) serve a copy of the filed response to counterclaim on all
parties.


Orders, including orders granting the relief claimed, may be
made against you if you fail to file the response to
counterclaim within the 30 day period referred to above.









1 Spousal relationship history
[
Check the correct box(es).
]









The claimant, ................[
name
]................ and the respondent ................[
name
]................:


[ ] Began to live together in a marriage-like relationship on
................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


[ ] Were married on ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]................. at.................[
city or town; province or state; country
].................


[ ] Separated on ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


[ ] Were divorced from each other by order made on
................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................









2 Counterclaim
[

Check the correct box(es) and complete and attach the required
Schedule(s).

]








The respondent is asking for the following:

[ ] An order for divorce — [
complete and attach Schedule 1
]


[ ] An order respecting child(ren) — [
complete and attach Schedule 2
]


[ ] An order for spousal support — [
complete and attach Schedule 3
]


[ ] An order relating to family property and family debt — [
complete and attach Schedule 4
]


[ ] Another order — [
complete and attach Schedule 5
]

[ ] An order for costs

An order to [ ] confirm or [ ] set aside [

check whichever one of the following boxes is correct and
complete the required information

] a written agreement dated ..............[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].............. in respect of

[ ] spousal support
[ ] child support
[ ] division of property and/or debt
[ ] other

for the following reasons:



.....................................................................................................................









3 The respondent's address for service is
[

Set out the street address of the address for service. One or
both of a fax number and an e-mail address may be given as
additional addresses for service.

]








Address for Service:


Fax
(optional)                                        E-mail
(optional)











Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


...............................................................................

Signature of

[ ] filing party [ ] lawyer for filing party(ies)


........................[
type or print name
]...........................









Note to Claimant AND Respondent:
you must file
financial information
(Form F8) if any of the following apply:


•  there is a claim against you for spousal support or you
are claiming spousal support;


• there is a claim by either party for the division of
property and/or debts under Part 5 or 6 of the
Family Law Act
;


• there is a claim against you for the support of a child,
OR


• you are claiming child support
unless all
of the following conditions apply:


(a) you are making no claim for any other kind of support;


(b) the child support is for children who are not stepchildren;


(c) none of the children for whom child support is claimed is 19
years of age or older;


(d) the income of the person being asked to pay child support is
under $150 000 per year;


(e) you are not applying for special expenses under section 7 of
the child support guidelines;


(f) you are not applying for an order under section 8 of the
child support guidelines;


(g) you are not applying for an order under section 9 of the
child support guidelines;


(h) you are not making a claim based on undue hardship under
section 10 of the child support guidelines.




If you do not file the financial information that is required,
the court may attribute an amount of income to you, and make a
support award against you, based on that amount.





Form F5 (Rule 4-4 (2) )

SCHEDULE 1 — DIVORCE





1 Personal information








Claimant
Respondent





Birthdate: [
dd/mmm/yyyy
]






Habitually resident in British Columbia since: [
dd/mmm/yyyy
]





Surname at birth:





Surname immediately before marriage:






Marital status immediately before marriage:


[ ] never married

[ ] divorced

[ ] widowed


[ ] never married

[ ] divorced

[ ] widowed




Place of marriage: [
city or town; province or state; country
]











2 Grounds for the respondent's claim for divorce










[ ] The respondent asks for an order for divorce on these
grounds:


[

If divorce is claimed as a result of having lived separate and
apart, complete paragraph (i).

]


(i) [ ] The respondent and his or her spouse have lived separate
and apart since


................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


AND


[

Check whichever one of the following boxes is correct and
complete any required information.

]


[ ] the respondent and his or her spouse have not lived together
since then


[ ] the respondent and his or her spouse have lived together
again during the following period(s), in an unsuccessful attempt
to reconcile: ................[
give dates of period(s)
]................


[

If divorce is claimed on grounds other than having lived
separate and apart, complete paragraph (ii) by checking both
of the following boxes and completing the required
information.

]


(ii) [ ] Other grounds, under section 8 (2) (b) of the
Divorce Act
(Canada):


[ ] Adultery (the respondent has committed adultery


[ ] Cruelty (the respondent has treated the applicant with
physical or mental cruelty of such a kind as to make continued
cohabitation intolerable)


AND


[ ] The respondent has not condoned any act relied on under
section 8 (2) (b) of the
Divorce Act
(Canada) as a ground for divorce.









3 The respondent confirms that:
[

The respondent seeking an order for divorce must check both of
the following boxes.

]








[ ] There is no possibility of reconciliation.

[ ] I do not know about and I am not involved in any arrangement
to make up or to hide evidence or to deceive the court to obtain
a divorce.









4 Proof of marriage
[

Check whichever one of the following boxes is correct and
complete any required information.

]









[ ] A certificate of marriage or of registration of marriage has
been filed


[ ] A certificate of marriage or of registration of marriage is
not being filed with this counterclaim because ...............[
state the reasons
]..............., and the certificate will be filed before this
claim is set down for trial or an application is made for an
order of divorce


[ ] It is impossible to obtain a certificate of marriage or of
registration of marriage because

...............[
state the reasons
]...............









5 Children
[

Check whichever one of the following boxes is correct and
complete any required information.

]









[ ] There are no children of the marriage as defined by the
Divorce Act
(Canada)

[ ] The children of the marriage are:

Full
name:
Birthdate: [
dd/mmm/yyyy
]
Resides with:

















The following certificate must be completed by each party to a
divorce claim.












PARTY'S CERTIFICATE (
Divorce Act
(Canada), s. 7.6)






[  ]


By checking this box, I, ................[
name of party
]................, certify that I am aware of my duties under
sections 7.1 to 7.5 of the
Divorce Act
(Canada), which say:




7.1


A person to whom parenting time or decision-making responsibility
has been allocated in respect of a child of the marriage or who
has contact with that child under a contact order shall exercise
that time, responsibility or contact in a manner that is
consistent with the best interests of the child.




7.2


A party to a proceeding under this Act shall, to the best of their
ability, protect any child of the marriage from conflict arising
from the proceeding.




7.3


To the extent that it is appropriate to do so, the parties to a
proceeding shall try to resolve the matters that may be the
subject of an order under this Act through a family dispute
resolution process.




7.4


A party to a proceeding under this Act or a person who is subject
to an order made under this Act shall provide complete, accurate
and up-to-date information if required to do so under this Act.




7.5


For greater certainty, a person who is subject to an order made
under this Act shall comply with the order until it is no longer
in effect.














The following certificate must be completed for each party to a
divorce claim who is represented by a legal adviser.












LEGAL ADVISER'S CERTIFICATE (
Divorce Act
(Canada), s. 7.7 (3))






[  ]


By checking this box, I, ................................, legal
adviser for ................[
name of party
]................, certify that I have complied with section 7.7
of the
Divorce Act
(Canada), which says:



7.7

(1) Unless the circumstances of the case are of such a nature that
it would clearly not be appropriate to do so, it is the duty of
every legal adviser who undertakes to act on a spouse's behalf in
a divorce proceeding






(a) to draw to the attention of the spouse the provisions of this
Act that have as their object the reconciliation of spouses; and






(b) to discuss with the spouse the possibility of the
reconciliation of the spouses and to inform the spouse of the
marriage counselling or guidance facilities known to the legal
adviser that might be able to assist the spouses to achieve a
reconciliation.





(2) It is also the duty of every legal adviser who undertakes to
act on a person's behalf in any proceeding under this Act






(a) to encourage the person to attempt to resolve the matters that
may be the subject of an order under this Act through a family
dispute resolution process, unless the circumstances of the case
are of such a nature that it would clearly not be appropriate to
do so;






(b) to inform the person of the family justice services known to
the legal adviser that might assist the person







(i) in resolving the matters that may be the subject of an order
under this Act, and







(ii) in complying with any order or decision made under this Act;
and






(c) to inform the person of the parties' duties under this Act.




Form F5 (Rule 4-4 (2) )

SCHEDULE 2 — CHILDREN





1 Identification of child(ren)




The respondent is asking for an order in respect of the following
child or children:








Child's full legal name


Child's birthdate [
dd/mmm/yyyy
]


Child's relationship to the claimant


Child's relationship to the respondent


Child habitually resident in BC since [
dd/mmm/yyyy
]


Child now living with
















































2 Orders sought









The respondent is asking for the following order(s): [

Check the correct box(es) and complete the required
information.

]


[ ] an order respecting arrangements for parenting [
Complete sections 3 and 4 below.
]


[ ] an order for child support [
Complete sections 5 to 7 below.
]









3 Current arrangements for parenting








Current arrangements for parenting are:














4 Proposed arrangements for parenting









The respondent proposes the following arrangements for
parenting:


...............[

set out terms of proposed order sought in relation to
arrangements for parenting, including custody, guardianship,
parenting arrangements or contact with a child

]...............


The respondent is asking for this order under [

Check one or both of the following boxes, as applicable.

]


[ ] the
Divorce Act
(Canada)        [ ] the
Family Law Act









5 Current child support arrangements








Current child support arrangements are:















6 Income of person being asked to pay child support

[

Check whichever one of the following boxes is correct and
complete any required information.

]









[ ] The respondent does not know the income of the person being
asked to pay child support


[ ] The respondent believes that the income of the person being
asked to pay child support is $.................,

based on these facts:

..............................................................................................................................................................


..............................................................................................................................................................









7 Proposed child support arrangements
[

Check the correct box(es) and complete the required information.

]








The respondent is asking for:

[ ] support in the amount set out in the child support
guidelines table, commencing on...........[
date
]........., for the following child(ren): ...............[
name(s) and date(s) of birth of child(ren)
]...............


[ ] special or extraordinary expenses in accordance with section
7 of the child support guidelines, commencing on...........[
date
]........., for the following child(ren): ...............[
name(s) and date(s) of birth of child(ren)
]...............


[ ] an order for support in an amount different than the amount
set out in the child support guidelines table, commencing
on...........[
date
]........., for the following child(ren): ..........[
name(s) and date(s) of birth of child(ren)
]..........


The respondent is asking for an order for child support under [

Check one or both of the following boxes, as applicable.

]


[ ] the
Divorce Act
(Canada)        [ ] the
Family Law Act





Form F5 (Rule 4-4 (2) )

SCHEDULE 3 — SPOUSAL SUPPORT





1 Current arrangements for spousal support








The current arrangements for spousal support are:














2 Proposed spousal support arrangements
[

Check the correct box(es) and complete the required information.

]









[ ] The respondent is asking for an order for spousal support as
follows: ...............[

set out terms of proposed order sought in relation to spousal
support

]...............


[ ] The respondent is asking for an order for spousal support
under [

Check one or both of the following boxes, as applicable.

]


[ ] the
Divorce Act
(Canada)        [ ] the
Family Law Act









3 Income of claimant and respondent









The respondent's gross annual income is $..........,


[

Check whichever one of the following boxes is correct and
complete any required information.

]


[ ] The respondent does not know what the claimant's income is


[ ] The respondent believes that the claimant's gross annual
income is $.............., based on these facts:


...............................................................................................................................................................


...............................................................................................................................................................










Note to Claimant AND Respondent:
you must file
financial information
(Form F8) if there is a claim by you or against you for spousal
support.


If you do not file the financial information that is required,
the court may attribute an amount of income to you and make a
support award against you, based on that amount.





Form F5 (Rule 4-4 (2) )

SCHEDULE 4 — PROPERTY





1 The respondent's claims










A. Property and debt claims under the
Family Law Act



[

Check whichever one of the following boxes is correct and
complete any required information in relation to family
property and family debt, as those terms are defined in the
Family Law Act.

]

The respondent is asking for an order for:

[ ] equal division of family property and family debt


[ ] unequal division of family property and family debt, as
follows and on the following grounds: ...............[

set out details of proposed unequal division and the grounds
on which it is made

]...............


Identify any relevant debt to the extent that it is known at
this time:


...................................................................................................................................................................


The address and legal description of any real property (land and
buildings) in which the claimant claims an interest as a family
property is:


..................................................................................................................................................................


The respondent pleads the following property as excluded from
family property under section 85 of the
Family Law Act
(explain the basis for the exclusion):


...................................................................................................................................................................


B. Other property claims


[

Check the correct box(es) and complete the required
information.

]

The respondent claims:
[ ] occupancy rent / occupational rent

[ ] an interest in the following property: ...............[

specify every interest claimed in property and if an interest
is claimed in real property, provide the address and legal
description of that real property

]
.............................................................................................................................................................................................


[ ] an order for compensation instead of an interest in the
property described as .......................[

identify every property for which compensation is claimed and
if compensation is claimed for real property, provide the
address and legal description of that real property

].....................................................................................


on the following grounds:...............[

set out the grounds on which any claim under this paragraph
for interest or compensation is based

]........................









2 Certificate of Pending Litigation








[ ] The respondent is applying for a Certificate of Pending
Litigation to be registered against the following real property
(land or building): ...............[

provide the legal description of every real property against
which a Certificate of Pending Litigation is to be registered

]...............




Form F5 (Rule 4-4 (2) )

SCHEDULE 5 — OTHER ORDERS






The respondent is asking for the following orders:


[

Check the correct box(es) and complete the required
information.

]


[ ] an order under the
Name Act
that the respondent's name be changed from ................[
current full legal name
]................ to ................[
full new name
]................


[ ] the following additional orders under the
Family Law Act
[

Using numbered paragraphs, set out any orders sought under the
Family Law Act that are not referred to in Schedules 1 to 4
and the sections of that Act under which those orders are
sought.

]

1
2

[ ] other orders [

Using numbered paragraphs, set out terms of other proposed
orders and the authority under which those orders are sought.

]

1
2
















Form F6 (Rule 4-4 (5) )





Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

RESPONSE TO COUNTERCLAIM



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all
forms.]



Filed by:
................[
party(ies)
]................









1 Response to information in counterclaim












My position regarding the information set out in the
counterclaim is as follows: [

Check the correct box(es) and complete the required
information.

]



[ ] Schedule 1:




[ ] The information set out in sections 1, 2, 3,
4 and 5 of Schedule 1 to the counterclaim is correct.





[ ] The information set out in sections 1, 2, 3,
4 and 5 of Schedule 1 to the counterclaim is not correct
in the following respects: ...............[

identify the information you say is not correct and set
out the information you say is correct

]...............



[ ] Schedule 2:




[ ] The information set out in sections 1, 3, 5
and 6 of Schedule 2 to the counterclaim is correct.





[ ] The information set out in sections 1, 3, 5
and 6 of Schedule 2 to the counterclaim is not correct in
the following respects: ...............[

identify the information you say is not correct and set
out the information you say is correct

]...............



[ ] Schedule 3:




[ ] The information set out in sections 1 and 3
of Schedule 3 to the counterclaim is correct.





[ ] The information set out in sections 1 and 3
of Schedule 3 to the counterclaim is not correct in the
following respects: ...............[

identify the information you say is not correct and set
out the information you say is correct

]...............












2 Response to claims in counterclaim:









This is my response to claims made against me in the Schedules
to the counterclaim:





[

For each of the claims identified below that are made in the
counterclaim, indicate whether you agree or disagree with that
claim by checking the correct box opposite that claim.

]



Claim for divorce (Schedule 1, section 2)
[ ] Agree
[ ] Disagree


Parenting arrangements (Schedule 2, section 4)
[ ] Agree
[ ] Disagree


Child support (Schedule 2, section 7)
[ ] Agree
[ ] Disagree


Spousal support (Schedule 3, section 2)
[ ] Agree
[ ] Disagree



Division of family property and family debt (Schedule 4, section
1)

[ ] Agree
[ ] Disagree



Other property claim(s) (Schedule 4, section 1)

[ ] Agree
[ ] Disagree



Other orders (Schedule 5) [

identify each claim made in Schedule 5 of the counterclaim and
indicate whether you agree or disagree with that claim by
checking the correct box opposite that claim

]





[
claim
]


[ ] Agree
[ ] Disagree




[
claim
]


[ ] Agree
[ ] Disagree







3 My address for service is
[

Set out the street address of the address for service. One or
both of a fax number and an e-mail address may be given as
additional addresses for service.

]








Address for Service:

Fax
(optional)            E-mail
(optional)









Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

Signature of

[ ] filing party [ ] lawyer for filing party(ies)


...........................[
type or print name
]..........................








Note to Claimant AND Respondent:
You may be required to file
financial information
(Form F8) if there is a claim by you or against you for support of
a child or spouse. See the note at the end of Schedules 1 and 2 of
the counterclaim for details.

If you do not file the financial information that is required, the
court may attribute an amount of income to you and make a support
award against you, based on that amount.














The following certificate must be completed by each party to a
divorce claim.












PARTY'S CERTIFICATE (
Divorce Act
(Canada), s. 7.6)






[  ]


By checking this box, I, ................[
name of party
]................, certify that I am aware of my duties under
sections 7.1 to 7.5 of the
Divorce Act
(Canada), which say:




7.1


A person to whom parenting time or decision-making responsibility
has been allocated in respect of a child of the marriage or who
has contact with that child under a contact order shall exercise
that time, responsibility or contact in a manner that is
consistent with the best interests of the child.




7.2


A party to a proceeding under this Act shall, to the best of their
ability, protect any child of the marriage from conflict arising
from the proceeding.




7.3


To the extent that it is appropriate to do so, the parties to a
proceeding shall try to resolve the matters that may be the
subject of an order under this Act through a family dispute
resolution process.




7.4


A party to a proceeding under this Act or a person who is subject
to an order made under this Act shall provide complete, accurate
and up-to-date information if required to do so under this Act.




7.5


For greater certainty, a person who is subject to an order made
under this Act shall comply with the order until it is no longer
in effect.














The following certificate must be completed for each party to a
divorce claim who is represented by a legal adviser.












LEGAL ADVISER'S CERTIFICATE (
Divorce Act
(Canada), s. 7.7 (3))






[  ]


By checking this box, I, ................................, legal
adviser for ................[
name of party
]................, certify that I have complied with section 7.7
of the
Divorce Act
(Canada), which says:



7.7

(1) Unless the circumstances of the case are of such a nature that
it would clearly not be appropriate to do so, it is the duty of
every legal adviser who undertakes to act on a spouse's behalf in
a divorce proceeding






(a) to draw to the attention of the spouse the provisions of this
Act that have as their object the reconciliation of spouses; and






(b) to discuss with the spouse the possibility of the
reconciliation of the spouses and to inform the spouse of the
marriage counselling or guidance facilities known to the legal
adviser that might be able to assist the spouses to achieve a
reconciliation.





(2) It is also the duty of every legal adviser who undertakes to
act on a person's behalf in any proceeding under this Act






(a) to encourage the person to attempt to resolve the matters that
may be the subject of an order under this Act through a family
dispute resolution process, unless the circumstances of the case
are of such a nature that it would clearly not be appropriate to
do so;






(b) to inform the person of the family justice services known to
the legal adviser that might assist the person







(i) in resolving the matters that may be the subject of an order
under this Act, and







(ii) in complying with any order or decision made under this Act;
and






(c) to inform the person of the parties' duties under this Act.
















Form F7 (Rule 4-5 (3) )





Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:


NOTICE OF WITHDRAWAL IN FAMILY LAW CASE IN WHICH A DIVORCE IS
CLAIMED




[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all
forms.]



TAKE NOTICE that ................[
party(ies)
]................ withdraw(s)


[

Check the correct box(es) and complete any required
information.

]

[ ] the whole of my/their
[ ] notice of family claim
[ ] response to family claim
[ ] counterclaim
[ ] response to counterclaim

[OR]


[ ] the following part(s) of my/their

[ ] notice of family claim
[ ] response to family claim
[ ] counterclaim
[ ] response to counterclaim

................[
describe the part(s) withdrawn
]................









Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

Signature of

[ ] withdrawing party

[ ] lawyer for withdrawing party(ies)


...........................[
type or print name
]..........................
















Form F8 (Rule 5-1 and 7-1 (8), 10) and (11) )






This is the ......[
1st/2nd/3rd/etc.
]...... affidavit

of ..............[
name
].............. in this case

and was made on .........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].........

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia


Claimant:



Respondent:



FINANCIAL STATEMENT



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all
forms.]











Instructions for Completion



You must file
financial information
(Form F8) if any of the following apply:



•

there is a claim against you for spousal support or you are
claiming spousal support;



•

there is a claim by either party for the division of property
and/or debts under Part 5 or 6 of the Family Law Act;



•

there is a claim against you for the support of a child, OR



•

you are claiming child support unless
all
of the following conditions apply:




(a) you are making no claim for any other kind of support;




(b) the child support is for children who are not
stepchildren;




(c) none of the children for whom child support is claimed is
19 years of age or older;




(d) the income of the person being asked to pay child support
is under $150 000 per year;




(e) you are not applying for special expenses under section 7
of the child support guidelines;




(f) you are not applying for an order under section 8 of the
child support guidelines;




(g) you are not applying for an order under section 9 of the
child support guidelines;




(h) you are not making a claim based on undue hardship under
section 10 of the child support guidelines.





If you do not file the financial information that is required,
the court may attribute an amount of income to you, and make a
support award against you, based on that amount.











I, ................[
name
]................, of ...............[
address for service
]..............., SWEAR (OR AFFIRM) THAT:


1  The information set out in this financial statement
is true and complete to the best of my knowledge.


[

Check whichever of the following boxes is correct and complete
any required information.

]


2  [ ] I do not anticipate any significant
changes in the information set out in this financial statement.


[ ] I anticipate the following significant changes in the
information set out in this financial statement:


.......................................................................................................................................................












SWORN (OR AFFIRMED) BEFORE
)




ME at ........................., British Columbia

)




on ..........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]..........

)

............................................................................




)




..........................................................

)



A commissioner for taking
)



affidavits for British Columbia
)





....[
print name or affix stamp of commissioner
]....






PART 1 — INCOME






You

do not

need to complete Part 1 if
ALL
of the following apply:


(a) the other party does not claim child support from you;


(b) there are no claims for special expenses under
section 7 of the child support guidelines;


(c) the current parenting arrangement does not involve split or
shared custody under section 8 or section 9 of the
child support guidelines;


(d) there are no claims for split or shared custody;


(e) there are no claims for child support relating to
stepchildren;


(f) there are no children 19 years or older for whom support is
sought;


(g) the payor's child support guidelines income is less than
$150 000 per year;


(h) there are no claims for undue hardship under section 10
of the child support guidelines;


(i) there are no claims for retroactive child support;


(j) there are no claims for spousal support.



A Employer information:


[ ] I am employed by ................[
name and address of employer
]................


[ ] I am self employed as ................[
trade or occupation
]................


[ ] I operate an unincorporated business, the name and
address of which is ................[
name and address of business
]................

[ ] I am unemployed

B Documentation supplied:


I have attached to this statement or serve with it a copy of
each of the following applicable income documents [

Check the first 2 boxes and check each other box that applies
to you and provide the documents referred to beside each
checked box.

]:


[ ] every personal income tax return, including all
attachments, that I have filed for each of the 3 most recent
taxation years;


[ ] every income tax notice of assessment or
reassessment I have received for each of the 3 most recent
taxation years;


[ ] [
if you are an employee
] my most recent statement of earnings indicating the total
earnings paid in the year to date, including overtime, or, if
such a statement is not provided by my employer, a letter from
my employer setting out that information, including my rate of
annual salary or remuneration;


[ ] [
if you are receiving Employment Insurance benefits
] my 3 most recent EI benefit statements;


[ ] [
if you are receiving Workers' Compensation benefits
] my 3 most recent WCB benefit statements;


[ ] [
if you are receiving income assistance
] a statement confirming the amount of income assistance that I
receive;


[ ] [
if you are self-employed
] for the 3 most recent taxation years


(i) the financial statements of my business or professional
practice, other than a partnership, and


(ii) a statement showing a breakdown of all salaries, wages,
management fees or other payments or benefits paid to, or on
behalf of, persons or corporations with whom I do not deal at
arm's length;


[ ] [
if you are in a partnership
] confirmation of my income and draw from, and capital in, the
partnership for its 3 most recent taxation years;


[ ] [
if you control a corporation
] for the corporation's 3 most recent taxation years


(i) the financial statements of the corporation and its
subsidiaries, and


(ii) a statement showing a breakdown of all salaries, wages,
management fees or other payments or benefits paid to, or on
behalf of, persons or corporations with whom the corporation and
every related corporation does not deal at arm's length;


[ ] [
if you are a beneficiary under a trust
] the trust settlement agreement and the trust's 3 most recent
financial statements;


[ ] [
if you own or have an interest in real property
] the most recent assessment notice issued from an assessment
authority for the property.


NOTE: If the applicable income documents are not attached to or
served with this financial statement, they must nonetheless be
provided to the other party if and as required by Rule 5-1 of
the Supreme Court Family Rules.


C Annual Income


If line 150 (total income) of your most recent federal income
tax return sets out what you expect your income will be for this
year and you are not obliged under Note 1 below to complete
Schedule A of this Form, ignore lines 1 to 7 below and record
the number from line 150 of your most recent federal income tax
return at line 8 below. Otherwise, record what you expect your
income for this year to be from each of the following sources of
income that applies to you. Record gross annual amounts.








LINE

GUIDELINE INCOME FOR BASIC CHILD SUPPORT CLAIM







Sources and amounts of annual income





1

Employment income ($..........) paid: [ ] monthly / [
] twice each month / [ ] every 2 weeks)

+



2
Employment insurance benefits
+



3
Workers' compensation benefits
+



4
Interest and investment income
+



5
Pension income
+



6
Income assistance relating to self
+



7
Other income (attach Schedule A) — see Note 1
+



8


Child support guidelines income before adjustments


[

If you are required to complete lines 1 through 7 above,

total the amounts of those lines here. Otherwise, record the
number

from line 150 of your most recent federal income tax return

]


=





Adjustments to income





9
Subtract union and professional dues
−

(        )



10

Adjustments in accordance with Schedule III of the child support
guidelines per line 8 of Schedule B (attached) — see Note 2


+

−


(        )



11


Child support guidelines income for basic child support

(line 8 as adjusted by lines 9 and 10)


=






CHILD SUPPORT GUIDELINE INCOME TO DETERMINE SPECIAL EXPENSES








Child support guidelines income (from line 11 of this table)





12

Add spousal support received from the other party to this family
law case

+



13

Subtract spousal support paid to the other party to this family
law case

—

(        )



14

Add Canada Child Tax Benefit relating to children for whom special
or extraordinary expenses are sought

+



15

Child support guidelines income to determine special expenses

(line 11 as adjusted by lines 12, 13 and 14)

=





INCOME TO BE INCLUDED FOR SPOUSAL SUPPORT CLAIM







Child support guidelines income (from line 11 of this table)





16
Total child support received
+



17

Income assistance received for other members of household

+



18
Canada Child Tax Benefit and BC Family Bonus
+



19


Total income to be used for a spousal support claim

(line 11 plus lines 16, 17 and 18)


=








Note:

1  You must complete Schedule A of this Form and
include, at line 7 above, the total income recorded at line 11
of Schedule A, if you expect to receive income this year from
any of the following sources:


(a) taxable dividends from Canadian corporations;


(b) net partnership income (limited or non-active partners
only);

(c) rental income;
(d) taxable capital gains;

(e) registered retirement savings income;

(f) self-employment income;

(g) any other taxable income that is not included in paragraphs
(a) to (f) or in lines 1 to 5 of Schedule A.


2  If there are any adjustments as set out in Schedule
III of the child support guidelines that apply to you, you must


(a) complete Schedule B of this Form, and


(b) include at line 10 above, the amount recorded at line 8 of
that completed Schedule B.






SCHEDULE A — OTHER INCOME




LINE

OTHER SOURCES OF INCOME





1

Self-employment income: Gross = $..........;

Net = $..........



Note: Provide financial statements of the business, including any
statement of business activities filed as part of your income tax
return



+




2
Other employment income
+



3

Net partnership income: limited or non-active partners only

+



4

Rental income: Gross = $..........;

Net = $..........


+



5

Total amount of dividends from Taxable Canadian Corporations

+



6

Total capital gains ($..........)

minus total capital losses ($..........) =


+



7

Spousal support from another relationship or marriage

+



8

Registered retirement savings plan income

+



9
Net federal supplements
+



10
Any other income
+



11

Total of lines 1 through 10

+





SCHEDULE B — ADJUSTMENTS TO INCOME




LINE

DEDUCTIONS





1

Employment expenses, other than union or professional dues,
claimed under Schedule III of the child support guidelines [
list
]

−




• ............................................. $..........






• ............................................. $..........






Total $..........







2

Actual business investment losses during the year

−



3

Carrying charges and interest expenses paid and deductible under
the
Income Tax Act
(Canada): [
list
]

−




• ............................................. $..........






• ............................................. $..........






Total $..........







4

Prior period earnings ($..........) minus reserves ($..........) =




−



5

Portion of partnership and sole proprietorship income required to
be re-invested

−





ADDITIONS





6

Capital cost allowance for real property

+



7

Employee stock options in Canadian-controlled private corporations
exercised: value of shares when options exercised ($..........)
minus amount paid for shares ($..........) minus amount paid to
acquire option ($..........) =




+



8

Total adjustments







PART 2 — MONTHLY EXPENSES





You

must

complete Part 2 if




(a)

there is a claim, either by you or against you, for spousal
support

OR




(b)

there is a claim, either by you or against you, for child support
and one or more of the following conditions applies:

• one or more of the children is a stepchild;

• one or more of the children for whom child support is claimed is
19 years of age or older;

• the current parenting arrangement involves split or shared
custody under section 8 or 9 of the child support guidelines or
there is an application for an order under section 9 of the child
support guidelines;

• the income of the party being asked to pay child support is more
than $150 000 per year

OR




(c)

there is a claim against you for child support and you intend to
make a hardship claim under the child support guidelines

OR




(d)

there is a claim by you for child support and the opposite party
has made a hardship claim under the child support guidelines

OR




(e)

there is a claim, either by you or against you, for child support
and there is a claim for special expenses under section 7 of the
child support guidelines.








Monthly




Compulsory deductions





CPP contributions



EI premiums



Income taxes



Employee pension contributions




Other [
specify
]





Compulsory Deductions Sub-total





Housing





Rent or mortgage



Property taxes



Property insurance



Water, sewer, garbage



Strata fees



House repairs and maintenance




Other [
specify
]




Housing Sub-total




Utilities





Heat and electricity



Telephone



Cellular telephone



Cable TV



Internet service




Other [
specify
]




Utilities Sub-total




Household expenses





Food



Household supplies



Meals outside the home



Furnishings and equipment




Other [
specify
]





Household expenses Sub-total





Transportation





Public transit, taxis



Gas and oil



Car insurance and licence



Parking



Repairs and maintenance



Lease payments




Other [
specify
]





Transportation Sub-total





Other





Charitable donations



Vacation



Pet care



Newspapers, publications




Other [
specify
]




Other Sub-total




Health





Extended health premiums



Dental plan premiums



Health care (net of coverage)



Drugs (net of coverage)



Dental care (net of coverage)




Other [
specify
]




Health Sub-total




Personal





Clothing



Hair care



Toiletries, cosmetics




Education [
specify
]




Life insurance



Dry cleaning/laundry



Entertainment/recreation



Gifts




Other [
specify
]




Personal Sub-total




Children





Child care



Clothing



Hair care



School fees and supplies



Entertainment/recreation



Activities and lessons



Gifts



Insurance




Other [
specify
]




Children Sub-total




Savings





RRSP



RESP




Other [
specify
]




Savings Sub-total




Support payments to others






[
specify
]





Support payments to others Sub-total





Debt payments






[
specify minimum monthly payments
]





Debt payments Sub-total





TOTAL MONTHLY EXPENSES






TOTAL ANNUAL EXPENSES

[multiply TOTAL MONTHLY EXPENSES by 12]







PART 3 — PROPERTY





You

must

complete Part 3 if




(a)

there is a claim, either by you or against you, for spousal
support

OR




(b)

there is a claim, either by you or against you, for child support
and one or more of the following conditions applies:

• one or more of the children is a stepchild;

• one or more of the children for whom child support is claimed is
19 years of age or older;

• there is an application for an order under section 9 of the
child support guidelines;

• the income of the party being asked to pay child support is more
than $150 000 per year

OR




(c)

there is a claim against you for child support and you intend to
make a hardship claim under the child support guidelines

OR




(d)

there is a claim by you for child support and the opposite party
has made a hardship claim under the child support guidelines

OR




(e)

there is a claim, either by you or against you, for child support
and there is a claim for special expenses under section 7 of
the child support guidelines

OR




(f)

there is a property claim, either by you or against you, under
Part 5 or 6 of the
Family Law Act
.





ASSETS


List all assets that you own, regardless of whether or not the other
party has made a claim.




Assets
Details

Date Acquired

[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]

Value




1 Real estate

• Attach a copy of the most recent assessment notice for any
property that you own or in which you have an interest.

• Provide details, including address or legal description and
nature of interest, of any interest you have in land, including
leasehold interests and mortgages, whether or not you are
registered as owner.

• Record the estimated market value of your interest without
deducting encumbrances or costs of disposition.

[
Record encumbrances under DEBTS below.
]








Real estate Sub-total





2 Vehicles

• List cars, trucks, motorcycles, trailers, motor homes, boats,
etc.








Vehicles Sub-total





3 Financial assets

• List savings and chequing accounts, term deposits, GIC's,
stocks, bonds, Canada Savings Bonds, mutual funds, insurance
policies [
indicate beneficiaries
], accounts receivable, etc.

• Record account number and name of institution where accounts are
held.








Financial assets Sub-total





4 Pensions and RRSP's

• Record name of institution where accounts are held, name and
address of pension plan and pension details.








Pensions and RRSP's Sub-total





5 Business interests

• List any interest you hold, directly or indirectly, in any
unincorporated business, including partnerships, trusts and joint
ventures.

• List any interests you hold in incorporated businesses.

• Record the name and address of the company.








Business interests Sub-total





6 Other

• Include precious metals, collections, works of art and any
jewellery or household items of extraordinary value.

• Include location of safety deposit boxes.








Other Sub-total





TOTAL






DEBTS





Show your debts and other liabilities, whether arising from
personal or business dealings, by category, such as mortgages,
charges, liens, notes, credit cards, accounts payable and tax
arrears. Include contingent liabilities such as guarantees and
indicate that they are contingent.







Debt
Details

Date Incurred

[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]

Amount




Secured debts

• Mortgages

• Other (specify)








Secured debts Sub-total





Unsecured debts

• Bank loans

• Personal loans

•
Credit cards
[
list
]

•
Other
[
specify
]








Unsecured debts Sub-total





TOTAL






EXCLUDED PROPERTY





Of the assets listed above, list which ones are excluded property
or form part of the excluded property claim.








Description


Date of Acquisition


Value at Acquisition or

Commencement


Current Value











DISPOSAL OF PROPERTY





List all real and personal property disposed of during the 2 years
preceding this statement or, if the parties married within that 2
year period, since the date of marriage.








Description

[
describe the property disposed of
]


Date of Disposal

[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]

Value









PART 4 — SPECIAL OR EXTRAORDINARY EXPENSES






You

must

complete Part 4 if there is a claim, either by you or against
you, for child support and there is a claim for special expenses
under section 7 of the child support guidelines.


Note:

1 Provide a separate statement under this Part 4 for each child
for whom a claim is made.


2 To calculate a net amount, subtract, from the gross amount,
subsidies, benefits, income tax deductions or credits relating
to the expense.









Name of child:


Annual

Gross


Annual Net


Monthly

Gross


Monthly

Net



Child care expenses







Medical/dental insurance premiums attributable to child








Health related expenses that exceed insurance reimbursement by at
least $100








Extraordinary expenses for primary or secondary school







Post-secondary education expenses







Extraordinary extracurricular expenses [
list
]







Subtract contributions from child

(            )


(            )


(            )


(            )




TOTAL









PART 5 — UNDUE HARDSHIP





You

must

complete Part 5 if there is a claim against you for child support
and you intend to make an undue hardship claim under the child
support guidelines.









1 Responsibility for unusually high debts reasonably incurred to
support the family prior to separation or in order to earn a
living




Owed to:
Terms of debt:
Monthly Amount



• [
list
]


• [
provide details
]

$..........



Total
$..........




2 Unusually high expenses for exercising parenting time or
contact with, or access to, a child





Details of expense

Amount



• [
list
]

$..........



Total
$..........




3 Legal duty under a court order or separation agreement to
support another person




Name of person
Relationship
Nature of duty









4 Legal duty to support a child, other than a child for whom
support is claimed, who is

(a) under age 19, or

(b) 19 or older but unable to support himself or herself because
of illness, disability or other cause




Name of person
Relationship
Nature of duty









5 Legal duty to support a person who is unable to support
himself or herself because of illness or disability




Name of person
Relationship
Nature of duty








6 Other undue hardship circumstances
[
provide details
]











PART 6 — INCOME OF OTHER PERSONS IN HOUSEHOLD





You

must

complete Part 6 if




(a)

there is a claim against you for child support and you intend to
make an undue hardship claim under the child support guidelines

OR




(b)

there is a claim by you for child support and the other party has
made an undue hardship claim under the child support guidelines.







Name of person
Annual income










Total
















Form F9 (Rule 5-1 (8) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

AGREEMENT AS TO ANNUAL INCOME



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



The parties agree that the income of the payor, ........[
name of party who will pay child support
]........, for the purposes of the child support guidelines is $.....
per year.






Date: ....................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]....................


Date:....................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]....................








........................................................................

Signature of payor


.......................................................................

Signature of recipient





Note:


There must be filed in the registry, with this Form F9, a copy of the
most recent personal income tax return filed by the payor and a copy of
the most recent income tax assessment he or she received, but if one or
both of those documents is unavailable, there must be filed with this
Form F9 whichever of those documents is available, if any, along with an
affidavit


(a) explaining why the unfiled documents are not available, and


(b) providing evidence to satisfy the court that the amount of income
and child support agreed to by the parties is reasonable.













Form F10 (Rule 6-1 (3) and 8-2 (10) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

NOTICE OF ADDRESS FOR SERVICE



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



The address for service of ................[
party(ies)
]................ is:


[

Check whichever of the following boxes is correct and complete the
required information.

]


[ ]
I am represented by a lawyer in the family law case.





Name and office address of party's lawyer: [
this must be an accessible address
]





Additional addresses for service (optional)



Lawyer's fax number:



Lawyer's e-mail address:





[OR]


[ ]

I am not represented by a lawyer in the family law case.






Residential address or business address: [
this must be an accessible address
]






[If the residential address or business address noted above is
more than 30 kilometres from the registry, the party must
provide at least one of the following in addition to the address
noted above. In any case, the party may provide one or more of
the following as additional addresses for service.]




Postal address in British Columbia:



Fax number:



E-mail address:









Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

Signature of [ ] filing party [ ] lawyer for filing
party(ies)





...........................[
type or print name
]..........................


Rule 1-1 (1) of the Supreme Court Family Rules defines "accessible
address" as follows:


"accessible address"
means an address that describes a unique and identifiable location in
British Columbia that is accessible to the public during normal business
hours for the delivery of documents;













Form F11 (Rule 6-4 (3) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

NOTICE FOR PUBLICATION



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



To: ........................[
party(ies)
]........................


TAKE NOTICE THAT on ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........ an order was made for service on you of a ........[
notice of family claim/counterclaim/petition
]........ issued from the ................[
location
]................ Registry of the Supreme Court of British Columbia in
family law case number ........[
registry number
]........ by way of this advertisement.


In the family law case, the ........[
claimant/respondent/petitioner
]........ claims the following relief against you: ........[

describe the relief claimed; e.g. divorce, orders for guardianship,
parenting arrangements or contact with a child, child support, spousal
support, division of family property and family debt or other property
relief

]........ .


You must file a ........[

response to family claim/response to counterclaim/response to petition

]........ within 30 days after the date of the publication of this
notice [

OR, if the court orders a different period, within .....number of days
set out in order

].... after the date of the publication of this notice] failing which
further proceedings may be taken against you without notice to you.


You may obtain a copy of the ....[
notice of family claim/counterclaim/petition
].... and the order for service by advertisement from the
................[
location
]................ Registry, at ................[
address
]................ .


........................................................................

Name of party


........................................................................

Address for service













Form F12 (Rule 6-5 (11) )


REQUEST



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



FOR SERVICE ABROAD OF JUDICIAL OR EXTRAJUDICIAL DOCUMENTS


Convention on the Service Abroad of Judicial and Extrajudicial Documents

in Civil or Commercial Matters,

signed at The Hague, November 15, 1965.









Identity and address of the applicant












Address of receiving authority











The undersigned applicant has the honour to transmit — in duplicate —
the documents listed below and, in conformity with Article 5 of the
Convention, requests prompt service of one copy thereof on the
addressee, i.e.,
........................................................[
identity and address
]........................................................


(a) in accordance with the provisions of subparagraph (a) of the first
paragraph of Article 5 of the Convention*.


(b) in accordance with the following particular method (subparagraph (b)
of the first paragraph of Article 5*)
..........................................................................................................................................
.


(c) by delivery to the addressee, if he or she accepts it voluntarily
(second paragraph of Article 5*).


The authority is requested to return or to have returned to the
applicant a copy of the documents — and of the annexes* — with a
certificate as provided in Form F14.




List of documents:




..................................................................


Done at
...............................................................




..................................................................


...........................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]...........................




..................................................................





..................................................................

Signature and/or stamp.



..................................................................





*Delete if inappropriate.












Form F13 (Rule 6-5 (11) )


NOTICE AND SUMMARY OF DOCUMENT



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]






Identity and address of the addressee








IMPORTANT


The enclosed document is of a legal nature and may affect your rights
and obligations. The "summary of the document to be served" will give
you some information about its nature and purpose. You should, however,
read the document itself carefully. It may be necessary to seek legal
advice.


If your financial resources are insufficient, you should seek
information on the possibility of obtaining legal aid or advice either
in the country where you live or in the country where the document was
issued.


Inquiries about the availability of legal aid or advice in the country
where the document was issued may be directed to:


Legal Services Society

Suite 400 — 510 Burrard Street

Vancouver, BC  V6C 3A8

(Phone) (604) 601-6000


Summary of document to be served
...............................................................................................................


Name and address of the requesting authority
...............................................................................................


.......................................................................................................................................................................


*Particulars of the parties
..............................................................................................................................


.......................................................................................................................................................................

**Judicial document

Nature and purpose of the document
.............................................................................................................


Nature and purpose of the proceedings and if appropriate the amount in
dispute ........................................


.......................................................................................................................................................................


.......................................................................................................................................................................


**Date and place for entering
appearance.....................................................................................................


.......................................................................................................................................................................


.......................................................................................................................................................................


**Court which has given judgment
...............................................................................................................


**Date of judgment
.......................................................................................................................................


**Time limits stated in the document
............................................................................................................


.......................................................................................................................................................................

**Extrajudicial document

Nature and purpose of the document
.............................................................................................................


.......................................................................................................................................................................


**Time limits stated in the document
............................................................................................................


.......................................................................................................................................................................


*If appropriate, identity and address of the person interested in the
transmission of the document.

**Delete if inappropriate.












Form F14 (Rule 6-5 (12) )


CERTIFICATE



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



The undersigned authority has the honour to certify, in conformity with
Article 6 of the Convention.

1 That the document has been served*

— the ....................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]....................


— at ....................[
place, street, number
]....................


— in one of the following methods authorized by Article 5 —


(a) in accordance with the provisions of subparagraph (a) of the first
paragraph of Article 5 of the Convention*


(b) in accordance with the following particular method*:
..............................................


(c) by delivery to the addressee, who accepted it voluntarily*.


The documents referred to in the request have been delivered to:


— [

relationship of person to addressee (family, business or other

)]*


2 That the document has not been served, by reason of the following
facts*:


.............................................................................................................................................................


In conformity with the second paragraph of article 12 of the Convention,
the applicant is requested to pay or reimburse the expenses detailed in
the attached statement*.


Annexes




Documents returned:




.................................................................


Done at
.....................................................................




..................................................................


the...........................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]............................




In appropriate cases, documents establishing the service:
...........................

Signature and/or stamp.



*Delete if inappropriate.












Form F15 (Rule 6-6 (1) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

AFFIDAVIT OF PERSONAL SERVICE



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



I, ................[
name
]................, of ................[
address
]................, ................[
occupation
]................, SWEAR (OR AFFIRM) THAT:


1 On ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........, at ........[
time of day
]........, I served ........[
name of person served
]........ with the ........[
type of document, e.g. notice of family claim, petition, etc.
]........ in this family law case, a copy of which is attached to this
affidavit and marked as Exhibit A, by handing it to and leaving it with
that person at ................[
city and country
]................ .



[In the case of service of a notice of family claim or counterclaim in
which a divorce is claimed, check whichever one of the following boxes
is correct and complete the required information.]



[ ] 2  I know the person served because
................[
set out the means of knowledge
]................ .

[OR]

[ ] 2  I know the person served because
................[
set out the means of knowledge
]................ and attached to this affidavit and marked as Exhibit B
is a photograph that is a true likeness of the person I served.

[OR]

[ ] 2  I do not know the person served and [

State the means by which the person who was served was identified by
checking one or both of the following boxes and providing the required
information.

]


[ ] the person I served produced the following identification
containing a photograph that was a true likeness of the person I served:
................[

specify form of identification produced — e.g. "B.C. Drivers License
No. XXX"

]................, bearing the name of ................


[ ] attached to this affidavit and marked as Exhibit B is a
photograph that is a true likeness of the person I served. [

If this box is checked, there must be filed an affidavit that exhibits
the same photograph and confirms that the person shown in the
photograph is the person identified in section 1 of this affidavit as
the person served.

]




SWORN (OR AFFIRMED) BEFORE
)




ME at ........................., British Columbia

)




on ..........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]..........

)

............................................................................




)




..........................................................

)



A commissioner for taking
)



affidavits for British Columbia
)





....[
print name or affix stamp of commissioner
]....













Form F16 (Rule 6-6 (1) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

AFFIDAVIT OF ORDINARY SERVICE



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



I, ................[
name
]................, of ....................[
address
]...................., ................[
occupation
]................, SWEAR (OR AFFIRM) THAT:


On ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]................, at ................[
time of day
]................, I served ................[
name of person served
]................ with the ................[
type of document, e.g. notice of family claim, petition, etc.
]................ in this family law case, a copy of which is attached
to this affidavit and marked as Exhibit A, by ................[
state means of service
]................ .




SWORN (OR AFFIRMED) BEFORE
)




ME at ........................., British Columbia

)




on ..........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]..........

)

............................................................................




)




..........................................................

)



A commissioner for taking
)



affidavits for British Columbia
)





....[
print name or affix stamp of commissioner
]....














Form F17 (Rules 6-6 (1), 7.1-1 (4), 7-2 (1), 10-6 (19.1) and (20),
15-1 (3.4), 10-9 (2), 15-6 (25), 17-1 (16.1) and (17), 20-5 (3), 22-2
(9) and 22-4 (10) )


Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

REQUISITION — GENERAL



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



Filed by:
........................[
party(ies)
]........................

Required:
This requisition is supported by the following:


[Include a description of supporting document(s). Each affidavit
included on the list must be identified as follows: "Affidavit
#.....[sequential number, if any, recorded in the top right hand
corner of the affidavit]..... of ...............[
name
]..............., made ........[
date
]........".]


1
2




Date: ................[
date
].................


..................................................................................

Signature of [ ] filing party [ ] lawyer for filing
party(ies)





...........................[
type or print name
].....................












Form F17.1 (Rule 2-1 (2) )

Court File No.: ........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

REQUISITION — FILING OF AGREEMENT


[

Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.

]


Filed by:
........................[
party(ies)
]........................


Required: The filing of the attached agreement under the
Family Law Act
.


[

Attach the applicable agreement to this requisition and check the
following box.

]


[ ] The attached agreement is the most recent agreement between the
parties in relation to the subject matter dealt with by this agreement.


[
Check the following box if applicable.
]


[ ] There is no court proceeding involving the parties to the agreement
in which any of the following orders has been made or is being sought:


(a) an order under the
Divorce Act
(Canada);


(b) an order under the
Family Law Act
;

(c) an order for annulment of marriage;
(d) an order,

(i) based on unjust enrichment or other trust claims, for an interest in
property, or


(ii) based on unjust enrichment, for compensation


if the claim for the interest or compensation arises out of a
marriage-like relationship;

(e) an order for adoption.




Date: ................[
date
].................


..................................................................................

Signature of [ ] filing party [ ] lawyer for filing
party(ies)





...........................[
type or print name
].....................












Form F17.2 (Rule 2-1.1 (3) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

REQUISITION — PARENTING COORDINATOR DETERMINATION



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



Filed by:
........................[
party(ies)
]........................


Required: The filing of the attached parenting coordinator
determination, which determination was made under


[ ] an agreement dated ......[
date
]...... between .........[
parties to agreement
]..............[

NOTE: If the determination was made under an agreement, the agreement
must be filed before the determination can be filed.

]


[ ] an order dated ......[
date
]......





Date: ................[
date
].................


..................................................................................

Signature of [ ] filing party [ ] lawyer for filing
party(ies)





...........................[
type or print name
].....................












Form F17.3 (Rule 2-1.2 (2) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

REQUISITION — ARBITRATION AWARD



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



Filed by:
........................[
party(ies)
]........................


Required: The filing of the attached arbitration award made under the
Arbitration Act
.


My address for service is

[Set out the street address of the address for service. One or both of
a fax number and an e-mail address may be given as additional
addresses for service.]






Address for Service:



Fax (optional)    E-mail (optional)








Date: ................[
date
].................


..................................................................................

Signature of [ ] filing party [ ] lawyer for filing
party(ies)





...........................[
type or print name
].....................













Form F18 (Rule 6-6 (2) )


CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE BY SHERIFF



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



I, ................................, certify that on ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........, at ........[
time of day
]........, I left a copy of this document at ................[
specify place of service
]................ with ................................ .





Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

Signature of sheriff or deputy sheriff
















Form F18.1 (Rule 7-1 (5) )


[Style of Proceeding]

REQUISITION — GENERAL (APPLICATION)


[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



Filed by:
...............
[party(ies)]
...............

Required:

[Set out order or relief sought]



This order/relief is sought because:

[Set out the reasons why the order or relief is sought]


This requisition is supported by the following documents:



[Include a description of supporting document(s), if any. An
application pursuant to Rule 7-1 (5) should be supported, at minimum,
by a copy of the proposed notice of application. If the requisition is
supported by an affidavit, each affidavit included on the list must be
identified as follows: "Affidavit #.....[sequential number, if any,
recorded in the top right hand corner of the affidavit]..... of
...............[name]..............., made ........[date]........".]


1
2
Position of the other party(ies):


[State whether other parties have a position with respect to this
application]






Date ...........
[date]
...........


.........................................................................

Signature of

[ ] filing party [ ] lawyer for filing party(ies)


...........[type or print name]...........





ORDER BY ENDORSEMENT
(to be completed by a judge, associate judge or registrar)

Order granted [  ] / refused [  ]

Conditions or directions:



..............................................................................................................



..............................................................................................................


Endorsed:

Judge/Associate Judge/Registrar .....................

Date .....................
[date]
.....................













Form F19 (Rule 7-1 (7) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

NOTICE OF JUDICIAL CASE CONFERENCE



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



Filed by:
........................[
party(ies)
]........................


TAKE NOTICE THAT a judicial case conference will be held at the
following place, date and time:




Address of courthouse:




Date: [
dd/mmm/yyyy
]




Time:




The parties and their lawyers are required to attend.

The purpose of the judicial case conference is to consider matters, set
out in Rule 7-1 (15) of the Supreme Court Family Rules, that may aid in
the settlement or other disposition of the family law case.


At the judicial case conference, the judge or associate judge may give
directions concerning the conduct of the family law case generally in
accordance with Rule 7-1 (15) of the Supreme Court Family Rules.


TAKE NOTICE that no notice of application or affidavit in support of an
application may be served on another party unless a judicial case
conference has been conducted (except applications under section 91 of
the
Family Law Act
, applications by consent, applications without notice and applications
to change, suspend or terminate final orders).





Date: ...............
[dd/mmm/yyyy]
...............


..............................................................................

Signature of

[ ] filing party [ ] lawyer for filing party(ies)


...............[type or print name]...............

















Form F19.1 (Rule 7-1 (13.1), 7.1-2 (4), 14-3 (7), 22-6 (5) and 22.1-1
(4) )


[Style of Proceeding]


REQUISITION — METHOD OF ATTENDANCE



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



Filed by:
........................
[party(ies)]
........................

Required:

[  ] Order to exempt ...............
[name of party]
............... from attending:


[  ] judicial case conference on ...............
[date]
............... [Rule 7-1 (13.1)]


[  ] case planning conference on ...............
[date]
............... [Rule 7.1-2 (4)]


[  ] trial management conference on ...............
[date]
............... [Rule 14-3 (7)]


[  ] Order to permit attendance [ ] in person or by way of [ ]
video conference or [ ] telephone by ..................... [name of
lawyer or party] ..................... at the:


[  ] judicial case conference on ...............
[date]
...............


[  ] case planning conference on ...............
[date]
...............


[  ] trial management conference on ...............
[date]
............... [Rule 14-3 (7)]


[  ] Order that the following application be heard
[  ] in person or by way of [  ] video conference
[  ] telephone or [  ] other communication medium
(please specify below):


...............
[identify application (including filing date)]
............... [Rule 22-6 (5)]


[  ] Order that the following hearing before a registrar be
heard [  ] in person or by way of [  ] video
conference [  ] telephone or [  ] other
communication medium (please specify below):


...............
[identify hearing
] ............... [Rule 22-6 (5)]


[  ] Order that the following application, conference or
hearing be heard in person:


..............

[identify application (including filing date), conference or hearing]

.............. [Rule 22.1-1 (4)]

This order/relief is sought because:

[Set out the reasons why the order or relief is sought]



Position of the other party(ies):



[State whether other parties have a position with respect to this
application]




Contact information for any person whose participation is to be by video
conference or telephone:



[provide email address (for video conference) or telephone number (for
telephone]








Date ...............
[date]
...............


..............................................................................

Signature of

[  ] filing party [  ] lawyer for filing
party(ies)


...............[type or print name]...............





ORDER BY ENDORSEMENT
(to be completed by a judge, associate judge or registrar)

Order granted [  ] / refused [  ]

Conditions or directions:



..............................................................................................



..............................................................................................


Endorsed:

Judge/Associate Judge/Registrar ...............

Date ...............
[date]
...............













Form F19.2 (Rules 7.1-1 (1) )


[Style of Proceeding]


NOTICE OF CASE PLANNING CONFERENCE



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



A case planning conference has been set for this family law case:



[Check whichever one of the following boxes is correct and complete
any required information.]



[  ] at the request of ...............
[party(ies)]
................


[  ] at the direction of the court


The case planning conference will be held at ..........

[address of the registry in which the proceeding is being conducted]

........... at ..........
[time of day]
.......... on ..........
[date]
.......... .

The parties will attend the case planning conference:

......
[Name of claimant's lawyer or claimant]
..... [  ] in person [  ] video conference
[  ] telephone [  ] other communication medium
(please specify below):



......
[Name of respondent's lawyer or respondent]
..... [  ] in person [  ] video conference
[  ] telephone [  ] other communication medium
(please specify below):



This case planning conference has been set to consider:



[Check whichever one of the following boxes is correct and complete
any required information.]



[  ]
[in the case of a first case planning conference]
the matters set out in the parties' respective case plan proposals


[  ]
[in the case of a subsequent case planning conference]
...........

[Using numbered paragraphs, set out a brief summary of the matters to
be considered.]

...........

1
2

Contact information for any person whose participation is to be by video
conference or telephone:



[provide email address (for video conference) or telephone number (for
telephone)]






Date: ................
[date]
.................


..........................................................................................

Signature of

[  ] filing party [  ] lawyer for filing
party(ies)


........................
[type or print name]
........................
















Form F19.3 (Rule 7.1-1 (6) )


[Style of Proceeding]


CASE PLAN PROPOSAL



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



Party submitting this case plan proposal:
..............................................


Indicate the party's proposal with respect to the following steps:




Item
Step

If parties agree, step agreed to and its timing

[set out details or refer to attachment]


If parties disagree, party's proposal respecting step and its
timing

[set out details or refer to attachment]



1

Discovery of documents


[when list is to be produced, where documents are to be made
available for inspection, electronic document protocol, etc.]






2

Examinations for discovery

[person to be discovered, date of discovery, duration of
discovery, etc.]





3

Obtaining the views of a child

[views of the child reports]





4

Dispute resolution procedures under Part 11 of the Supreme Court
Family Rules

[what procedures to be used and when, etc.]





5

Expert witnesses


[area of expertise of expert, date report to be served, etc.]






6

Witness Lists

[date list to be served]





7
Trial Type




8
Estimated trial length




9

Preferred period(s) for trial date





10

Other
[specify]










Date: ................
[date]
.................


...........................................................................................

Signature of

[  ] filing party [  ] lawyer for filing
party(ies)


...........................
[type or print name]
..........................
















Form F19.4 (Rule 7.1-3 (4) )


[Style of Proceeding]








A JUDGE OF THE COURT






BEFORE



or




.....[
date
].....







AN ASSOCIATE JUDGE OF THE COURT








CASE PLAN ORDER



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



AT A CASE PLANNING CONFERENCE conducted on ........
[date]
........ by ..........
[judge/associate judge]
.......... in the presence of ..........
[names of attending counsel and parties]
..........;


THIS COURT ORDERS that the parties comply with the attached case plan.

THE FOLLOWING PARTIES APPROVE THE FORM OF THIS ORDER


[A signature line in the following form must be completed and signed
by or for each approving party.]




..............................................................................

Signature of [  ] party

[  ] lawyer for .......
[name of party(ies)]
.....


.........................
[type or print name]
........................




..............................................................................

Signature of [  ] party

[  ] lawyer for .......
[name of party(ies)]
.....


.........................
[type or print name]
........................








By the Court.







.............................................................................





Registrar






Case Plan

1 Dispute resolution procedures


The parties have discussed resolution options including those under Part
11 of the Supreme Court Family Rules and have agreed to the following:



[Check the box to the left of each step to be taken and fill in the
agreed date.]






Step

Date by which step to be completed




Offer to settle




Mediation




Special Case




Proceeding on point of law




Summary trial




Summary judgment application





Other
[identify]






A party may undertake any of the steps provided for in Part 11 of the
Supreme Court Family Rules whether or not the step is noted above.



2 Document production (Rule 9-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules)



The following steps will be completed by the date set out next to each
step:




Step

Date by which step to be completed


[if dates differ by party, indicate a date for each party]





Delivery of the lists of documents required under Rule 9-1




Completion of an electronic document protocol




Other
[identify]







3 Examinations for discovery (Rule 9-2 of the Supreme Court Family
Rules)



The following examinations for discovery will be conducted, not exceed
the time limits indicated and be completed by the date indicated:





Examination by

(party name)


Examination of

(party and person name)


Time Limit


Date by which step to be completed























4 Applications

The following applications are anticipated:


[Identify each anticipated application and fill in the proposed date.]






Application


Date by which application anticipated to be brought

















A party may bring any other application whether or not that application
is noted above.



5 Expert witnesses (Part 13 of the Supreme Court Family Rules)



[

For the following, complete the following Parts 1 and 2 for any expert
evidence that the parties anticipate introducing at trial, and if the
parties are unable to provide the information required under Part 1 or
2, complete the following Part 3.

]

Part 1

Each party may tender the report of, or call to give oral opinion
evidence, an expert with the following expertise:





Name of party who intends to call the expert

[if expert is being called jointly, specify "Joint"]


Area of Expertise
















Part 2

The following steps will be taken by the date set out next to each step:





Step


Date by which step to be completed


[if dates differ by party, indicate a date for each party]




Joint expert's report served



Expert reports served



Responding expert reports served




Notices of objection to expert evidence served (Rule 13-6 (10) )





Experts confer and serve report summarizing points of difference





Other
[identify]





Other
[identify]





Part 3

If the information set out in the foregoing Part 1 or 2 is incomplete,
the parties will apply to amend this order to complete that information
by ........
[date]
........ .



6 Witnesses (Rule 9-4 of the Supreme Court Family Rules)



The following steps will be completed by the date set out next to each
step:





Step


Date by which step to be completed


[if dates differ by party, indicate a date for each party]





Serve lists of witnesses to be called at trial





Other
[identify]





Other
[identify]






7 Trial (Part 14 of the Supreme Court Family Rules)


(a) Estimated length of the trial: ........
[days]
........;


(b) ................
[party(ies)]
................, will file a Notice of Trial in Form F44 to secure the
trial date by ........
[date]
........ .


8 Other
















Form F20 (Rule 9-1 (1) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

LIST OF DOCUMENTS



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



Prepared by:
................[
party
]................ (the "listing party")



Part 1: DOCUMENTS THAT ARE OR HAVE BEEN IN THE LISTING PARTY'S
POSSESSION OR CONTROL AND THAT COULD BE USED BY ANY PARTY AT TRIAL TO
PROVE OR DISPROVE A MATERIAL FACT



[Do not include documents listed under Part 2, 3 or 4.]




No.

Date of document

[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]


Description of document


Indicate by a check mark if the

document is no longer in the listing

party's possession or control


Indicate, for each document listed in this Part by way of an
amendment to this List of Documents under Rule 9-1 (6), (9) or
(11), the date on which the document was listed



1.1


[ ]



1.2


[ ]






Part 2: OTHER DOCUMENTS TO WHICH THE LISTING PARTY INTENDS TO REFER AT
TRIAL



[Do not include documents listed under Part 1, 3 or 4.]




No.

Date of document

[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]


Description of document


Indicate by a check mark if the document is no longer in the
listing party's possession or control


Indicate, for each document listed in this Part by way of an
amendment to this List of Documents under Rule 9-1 (6), (9) or
(11), the date on which the document was listed



2.1


[ ]



2.2


[ ]






Part 3: DOCUMENTS THAT RELATE TO A MATTER IN QUESTION IN THE ACTION




[List here all documents that are listed in response to a demand under
Rule 9-1 (8) of the Supreme Court Family Rules, and all documents that
are listed in response to a court order under Rule 9-1 (11) of the
Supreme Court Family Rules, that have not been listed under Part 1 or
2. Do not include documents listed under Part 1, 2 or 4.]





No.

Date of document

[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]


Description of document


Indicate by a check mark if the document is no longer in the
listing party's possession or control


Indicate, for each document listed in this Part by way of an
amendment to this List of Documents under Rule 9-1 (6), (9) or
(11), the date on which the document was listed



3.1


[ ]



3.2


[ ]






Part 4: DOCUMENTS FOR WHICH PRIVILEGE FROM PRODUCTION IS CLAIMED





No.

Date of document

[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]


Description of document


Grounds on which privilege is claimed


Indicate, for each document listed in this Part by way of an
amendment to this List of Documents under Rule 9-1 (6), (9) or
(11), the date on which the document was listed



4.1






4.2








TAKE NOTICE that the documents listed in Part 1, 2 or 3 of this List of
Documents that are not shown as no longer being in the listing party's
possession or control may be inspected and copied, during normal
business hours, at ................[
specify location
]................ .





Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................



Implied undertaking to the court

Documents produced are not to be used by the other party(ies)
except for the purposes of this litigation unless and until the
scope of the undertaking is varied by a court order or other
judicial order, consent or statutory override or a situation of
immediate and serious danger emerges. This implied undertaking
continues despite settlement or completion of the litigation.






.............................................................................

Signature of [ ] listing party [ ] lawyer for listing

party

........................[
type or print name
]........................

















Form F21 (Rule 9-2 (12) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

APPOINTMENT TO EXAMINE FOR DISCOVERY



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



To: ..........[
name of person to be examined
]..........


TAKE NOTICE that you are required to attend for your examination for
discovery at the place, date and time set out below. If you are not a
named party, or a representative of a named party, to this family law
case, you must, unless the court otherwise orders, bring with you all
documents in your possession or control, not privileged, relating to the
matters in question in this family law case.


Place: .......................................................


Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


Time: .......................................................





Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................



Implied undertaking to the court

Documents produced are not to be used by the other party(ies)
except for the purposes of this litigation unless and until the
scope of the undertaking is varied by a court order or other
judicial order, consent or statutory override or a situation of
immediate and serious danger emerges. This implied undertaking
continues despite settlement or completion of the litigation.






.............................................................................

Signature of [ ] party wishing to conduct

examination [ ] lawyer for party(ies) wishing to

conduct examination

........................[
type or print name
]........................
















Form F22 (Rule 9-3 (1) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

INTERROGATORIES



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



Interrogatories on behalf of ................[
party(ies)
] ................ for the examination of ................[
person(s) required to answer
] ................:


[

Set out numbered questions to be answered specifying the person to
answer, if the questions are directed to more than one person.

]

1
2




Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

Signature of [ ] party serving interrogatories

[ ] lawyer for party(ies) serving interrogatories





...........................[type or print name]......................













Form F23 (Rules 9-4 (5), 9-7 (5) and 14-7 (32) and (36) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

SUBPOENA TO WITNESS



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



To: ......................[
name and address
]......................


TAKE NOTICE that you are required to attend to testify as a witness at
the place, date and time set out below. You are also required to bring
with you all documents in your possession or control relating to the
matters in question in this family law case [
and, if applicable, the following physical objects
]:


Place: .......................................................


Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


Time: .......................................................





Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

Signature of [ ] party serving subpoena

[ ] lawyer for party(ies) serving subpoena





...........................[
type or print name
]......................


Rule 14-7 (38) of the Supreme Court Family Rules states:

(38) On proof

(a) of the service of a subpoena on a witness who fails to attend or to
remain in attendance in accordance with the requirements of the
subpoena,


(b) that proper witness fees have been paid or tendered to that witness,
and


(c) that the presence of that witness is material to the ends of
justice,


the court, by its warrant in Form F50 directed to a sheriff or other
officer of the court or to a peace officer, may cause that witness to be
apprehended and promptly brought before the court and to be detained in
custody or released on terms the court may order, and the court may
order that witness to pay the costs arising from his or her failure to
attend or to remain in attendance.













Form F24 (Rule 9-6 (1) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

NOTICE TO ADMIT



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



To: ......................[
party(ies)
]......................


TAKE NOTICE that the ......................[
party(ies)
]......................, ......................[
name(s) of party(ies)
]......................, requests the ......................[
party(ies)
]......................, ......................[
name(s) of party(ies)
]......................, to admit, for the purpose of this family law
case only, the facts set out below and the authenticity of the documents
referred to below, copies of which are attached.


AND TAKE NOTICE that, unless the court otherwise orders, if the party to
whom this notice is directed does not serve a written statement, as
provided in Rule 9-6 (2) of the Supreme Court Family Rules,
within 14 days after service of a copy of this notice on him or
her, then the truth of the facts and the authenticity of the documents
will be deemed to be admitted.





Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

Signature of [ ] party serving notice to admit

[ ] lawyer for party(ies) serving notice to admit





...........................[
type or print name
]..........................


The facts, the admission of which is requested, are: [

Set out facts, using a separate numbered paragraph for each fact
requested to be admitted.

]

1
2

The documents, the authenticity of which admission is requested, are: [

List documents and attach copies of the documents to this notice to
admit.

]

1
2












Form F25 (Rule 9-7 (9) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:


ORDER FOR EXAMINATION OF PERSONS

OUTSIDE THE JURISDICTION




[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]









THE HONOURABLE JUSTICE






BEFORE



or




.....[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].....







ASSOCIATE JUDGE








THE APPLICATION of ................[
party(ies)
]...................., coming on before me on ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........, and on hearing ......................[
name of party/lawyer
]...................... and ......................[
name of party/lawyer
]......................;

THIS COURT ORDERS that:

1 ........................[
name
].......................... of ......................[
address
]......................... is appointed an examiner for the purpose of
taking the examination, cross-examination and re-examination orally, on
oath or affirmation, of ...........[
name of person to be examined
]............ of ...........[
address
]............ and ..........[
name of person to be examined
].............. of ......................[
address
]...................... and of any other persons as the lawyers or
agents of the parties mutually request the examiner in writing to
examine, at ............................... in ..........[
name of the province, state, or county
]..........;


2 the lawyer for the applicant give to the lawyer for each of the other
parties ........... days' notice in writing of the date on which the
lawyer proposes to send this order to the examiner for execution, and
that ........... days after service of the notice the lawyers for the
parties respectively exchange the names of their lawyers or agents at
............................... to whom notice relating to the
examination of the persons may be sent;


3 ........... days' notice (exclusive of Saturday and Sunday) before the
examination of any person must be given by the examiner to the lawyer
for or agent of each of the parties and to each person to be examined
unless the notice is waived;


4 the examination be conducted in accordance with the enclosed
instructions, with such modifications as may be necessary;


5 the depositions, together with any document referred to in them, or
certified copy of or extract from the document, be sent promptly by the
examiner to the Registrar of the Supreme Court of British Columbia at
the courthouse at ......................[
address
]......................, who must deliver the depositions and documents
to the applicants and provide copies to any party on request.

By the Court.

..................................................................................

Registrar













Form F26 (Rule 9-7 (9) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

INSTRUCTIONS TO EXAMINER



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



To: ......................[
name and address
]......................


You have been appointed Examiner to take the evidence of
........................ . A copy of the order appointing you is
attached. The law of British Columbia will apply to the taking of this
evidence.


The party wishing to examine ........[
name of person to be examined
]........ before you is required to serve ........[
him/her
]........ with a subpoena and tender the proper fees not fewer than
......... days before the date you fix for the examination.


The witness and any interpreter will be sworn or affirmed in accordance
with the form set out below.


After the examination has been held and the evidence transcribed and the
transcript certified by you as correct, you are to send the deposition
and other documents by registered mail to the registrar, courthouse
......................[
address
]....................... .

Oath (or Affirmation) of Witness

Do you swear that the evidence that you will give in these proceedings
will be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help
you God?

OR

Do you affirm that the evidence that you will give in these proceedings
will be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth?

Interpreter's Oath

Will you truly, faithfully and without partiality to any party in this
proceeding, and to the best of your ability, interpret and translate any
oath or affirmation that will be administered and all questions that may
be asked of any witness and his or her answers, so help you God?





Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

Signature of [ ] party [ ] lawyer for party(ies)





...........................[
type or print name
]..........................













Form F27 (Rule 9-7 (10) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:


ORDER FOR ISSUE OF A LETTER OF REQUEST TO

JUDICIAL AUTHORITY OF ANOTHER JURISDICTION




[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



BEFORE THE HONOURABLE JUSTICE ....[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]....


ON THE APPLICATION of ......................[
party(ies)
]......................, coming on before me on ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........, and on hearing ......................[
name of party/lawyer
]...................... and ......................[
name of party/lawyer
]......................;

THIS COURT ORDERS that:

1  the attached letter of request be issued;


2  the registrar, on receipt of the deposition taken under the
letter of request, must deliver them to the applicant and provide copies
to any party on request.

By the Court.

..................................................................................

Registrar













Form F28 (Rule 9-7 (10) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:


LETTER OF REQUEST FOR EXAMINATION

OF WITNESS OUT OF JURISDICTION




[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



To the judicial authority of .............................. in the
.............................. of .................................... .


Whereas this proceeding is now pending in the Supreme Court of British
Columbia in which the claimant claims .................................:


And whereas it appears to me that it is necessary for the purposes of
justice and for the due determination of the matters in question between
the parties that the following persons should be examined on oath or
affirmation relating to those matters, namely
................................. of .................................,
and ................................. of ..............................,
and such other persons as the lawyers or agents of the parties mutually
request you in writing to examine, and it appears that persons are
residents within your jurisdiction:


Now I, ................................., a Judge of the Supreme Court
of British Columbia, hereby request that, for the assistance of the
court, you will be pleased to summon the lawyers or agents of the
parties and the witnesses to be examined, to attend at such time and
place as you appoint, either before you or such other person as
according to your procedure is competent to take the deposition
examination of witnesses, and that you will cause the witnesses to be
examined orally or by interrogatories relating to the matters in
question, in the presence of the lawyers or agents of the parties or
such of them as, on due notice given, attend the examination:


And I further request that you permit the lawyer or agent of any party
present to examine any witness called by the lawyer or agent and the
lawyer or agent of any opposing party to cross-examine the witness and
the lawyer or agent of the party calling the witness to re-examine the
witness:


And I further request that you will be pleased to cause the evidence of
each witness to be recorded verbatim, and any document produced on the
examination to be marked for identification, and that you will be
further pleased to authenticate the depositions taken on the examination
and any document, or certified copy of the same or any extract therefrom
by the seal of your tribunal or in such other way as is in accordance
with your procedure, and to return the same, together with any
interrogatories and a note of the charges and expenses payable in
respect of the execution of this request to the Under Secretary of State
for External Affairs of Canada at Ottawa, Canada [

or, if the judicial authority to whom the letter is addressed is in
Canada, to the Deputy Attorney General for the Province of British
Columbia, Parliament Buildings, Victoria, British Columbia

], for transmission to the Registrar of the Supreme Court of British
Columbia at the courthouse at .................................





Dated: .................................................


..................................................................................

A Judge of the Supreme Court of British Columbia
















Form F29 (Rule 9-7 (17), 10-7 (1) and 10-8 (1) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:


REQUISITION FOR CONSENT ORDER OR FOR ORDER WITHOUT NOTICE




[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



Filed by:
..............................[
party(ies)
]..............................




Required:
[ ] An order by consent




[OR]




[ ] An order without notice





1  The rule or other enactment relied on is
......................[
set out the rule or enactment relied on
]...................... .


2  Attached to this requisition is a draft of the order
required.


[

Check whichever one of the following boxes is correct and complete any
required information.

]


3  [ ] Each party affected has consented to the
order.


[ ] The evidence in support of the application is contained in
the following documents that are filed with this requisition:
........................................................................................
.


[

Check whichever one of the following boxes is correct and complete any
required information.

]


4  [ ] No party is under a legal disability.


[ ] .....................[
name of party
]..................... is under a legal disability, namely
.....................[
set out legal disability
]..................... .






Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

Signature of [ ] filing party [ ] lawyer for filing
party(ies)





...........................[
type or print name
]........................













Form F30 (Rule 10-4 (2) and (7) )

This is the .....[1st/2nd/3rd/etc.]..... affidavit

of .............[
name
]............. in this case


and was made on .......[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].........

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

AFFIDAVIT



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



I, ................[
name
]................, of ................[
address
]................, ........[
occupation
]........, SWEAR (OR AFFIRM) THAT:

1
2
3



SWORN (OR AFFIRMED) BEFORE
)




ME at ........................., British Columbia

)




on ..........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]..........

)

............................................................................




)




..........................................................

)



A commissioner for taking
)



affidavits for British Columbia
)





...[
print name or affix stamp of commissioner
]....


[

The following endorsement must be completed if required under Rule
10-4 (7) of the Supreme Court Family Rules.

]


Endorsement of Interpreter

[
if applicable
]


I, ................[
name
]................, of ................[
address
]................, ................[
occupation
]................ certify that:


1  I have a knowledge of the English and
........................ languages and I am competent to interpret from
one to the other.


2  I am advised by the person swearing or affirming the
affidavit and believe that the person swearing or affirming the
affidavit understands the ........................ language.


3  Before the affidavit on which this endorsement appears was
made by the person swearing or affirming the affidavit I correctly
interpreted it for the person swearing or affirming the affidavit from
the English language into the ........................ language and the
person swearing or affirming the affidavit appeared to fully understand
the contents.





Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

Signature of interpreter
















Form F31 (Rule 10-6 (3) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

NOTICE OF APPLICATION



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



Name(s) of applicant(s):
..................................................................


To: ..................[
name(s) of party(ies) or person(s) affected
]..................


TAKE NOTICE that an application will be made by the applicant(s) to the
presiding judge or associate judge at the courthouse at
......................[

address of registry in which the family law case is being conducted

]...................... on ................[
date
].................at ........[
time of day
]........ for the order(s) set out in Part 1 below.


The applicant(s) estimate(s) that the application will take ...........[
time estimate
]........... .


[
Check whichever one of the following boxes is correct.
]


[ ] This matter is within the jurisdiction of an associate judge.


[ ] This matter is not within the jurisdiction of an associate
judge.


Part 1: ORDER(S) SOUGHT


[

Using numbered paragraphs, set out the order(s) that will be sought at
the application and

indicate against which party(ies) the order(s) is(are) sought.

]

1
2

Part 2: FACTUAL BASIS


[

Using numbered paragraphs, set out a brief summary of the facts
supporting the application.

]

1
2

[

If any party sues or is sued in a representative capacity, identify
the party and describe the representative capacity.

]


Part 3: LEGAL BASIS


[

Using paragraphs numbered sequentially from Part 2 above, specify any
rule or other enactment relied on and provide a brief summary of any
other legal arguments on which the applicant(s) intend(s) to rely in
support of the orders sought.

]

3
4

Part 4: MATERIAL TO BE RELIED ON


[

Using numbered paragraphs, list the affidavits served with the notice
of application and

any other affidavits and other documents already in the court file on
which the applicant(s) will

rely. Each affidavit included on the list must be identified as
follows:

"Affidavit #........

[

sequential number, if any, recorded in the top right hand corner of
the affidavit

]........ of

......................[
name
]......................, made ........[
date
]........".]

1
2

TO THE PERSONS RECEIVING THIS NOTICE OF APPLICATION: If you wish to
respond to this notice of application, you must, within the time for
response to application described below,

(a) file an application response in Form 32,

(b) file the original of every affidavit, and of every other document,
that


(i) you intend to refer to at the hearing of this application, and


(ii) has not already been filed in the family law case, and


(c) serve on the applicant 2 copies of the following, and on every other
party one copy of the following:

(i) a copy of the filed application response;

(ii) a copy of each of the filed affidavits and other documents that you
intend to refer to at the hearing of this application and that has not
already been served on that person;


(iii) if this application is brought under Rule 11-3, any notice that
you are required to give under Rule 11-3 (9).


Time for response to application


The documents referred to in paragraph (c) above must be served in
accordance with that paragraph,


(a) unless one of the following paragraphs applies, within 5 business
days after service of this notice of application,


(b) if this application is brought under Rule 11-3, within 8 business
days after service of this notice of application, and


(c) if this application is brought to change, suspend or terminate a
final order, to set aside or replace the whole or any part of an
agreement filed under Rule 2-1 (2) or to change, suspend or terminate an
arbitration award filed under Rule 2-1.2 (1), within 14 business days
after service of this notice of application.





Date: ................[
date
].................


..................................................................................

Signature of [ ] applicant [ ] lawyer for applicant(s)





...........................[
type or print name
]..........................






To be completed by the court only:


Order made

[ ] in the terms requested in paragraphs
...................... of Part 1 of this notice of application

[ ] with the following variations and additional terms:

...............................................................................................................

...............................................................................................................

...............................................................................................................









Date: .......[
date
]........


...................................................

Signature of [ ] Judge [ ] Associate Judge


















Appendix


[

The following information is provided for data collection purposes
only and is of no legal effect.

]


THIS APPLICATION INVOLVES THE FOLLOWING:


[

Check the box(es) below for the application type(s) included in this
application

.]


[ ] discovery: comply with demand for documents


[ ] discovery: production of additional documents


[ ] other matters concerning document discovery

[ ] extend oral discovery

[ ] other matter concerning oral discovery

[ ] amend pleadings
[ ] add/change parties
[ ] summary judgment
[ ] summary trial
[ ] service
[ ] interim order
[ ] change order
[ ] adjournments
[ ] proceedings at trial

[ ] appointment of additional expert(s): financial matters

[ ] other matters concerning experts
[ ] none of the above












Form F32 (Rule 10-6 (9) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

APPLICATION RESPONSE



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



Application response of:
......................[
party(ies)
]......................, (the "application respondent(s)")


THIS IS A RESPONSE TO the notice of application of
......................[
party(ies)
]......................, filed ........[
date
]........ .


The application respondent(s) estimate(s) that the application will take
...........[
time estimate
]........... .


Part 1: ORDERS CONSENTED TO


The application respondent(s) consent(s) to the granting of the orders
set out in the following paragraphs of Part 1 of the notice of
application on the following terms: ........[
set out paragraph numbers and any proposed terms
]........ .


Part 2: ORDERS OPPOSED


The application respondent(s) oppose(s) the granting of the orders set
out in paragraphs ........[
list paragraph numbers
]........ of Part 1 of the notice of application.


Part 3: ORDERS ON WHICH NO POSITION IS TAKEN


The application respondent(s) take(s) no position on the granting of the
orders set out in paragraphs ........[list paragraph numbers]........ of
Part 1 of the notice of application.


Part 4: FACTUAL BASIS


[

Using numbered paragraphs, set out a brief summary of the material
facts on which the orders sought in

the application should not be granted.

]

1
2

Part 5: LEGAL BASIS


[

Using paragraphs numbered sequentially from Part 4 above, specify any
rule or other enactment relied on and provide a brief summary of any
other legal arguments on which the application respondent(s) intend(s)
to rely in opposing the orders sought in the application.

]

3
4

Part 6: MATERIAL TO BE RELIED ON


[

Using numbered paragraphs, list the affidavits served with this
application response and any other

affidavits and other documents already in the court file on which the
application respondent(s) will rely.

Each affidavit included on the list must be identified as follows:

"Affidavit #.........[

sequential number,

if any, recorded in the top right hand corner of the affidavit

]......... of ...................[
name
]....................,

made ...........[
date
]...........".]

1
2

[

Check whichever one of the following boxes is correct and complete any
required information.

]


[ ] The application respondent has filed in this family law
case a document that contains the application respondent's address for
service.


[ ] The application respondent has not filed in this family
law case a document that contains an address for service. The
application respondent's ADDRESS FOR SERVICE is: ......................[

Set out an address for service that complies with Rule 6-1 (1) of the
Supreme Court Family Rules and any additional address(es) under Rule
6-1 (2) that the application respondent wishes to include.

]...................... .





Date: ................[
date
].................


..................................................................................

Signature of [ ] application respondent

[ ] lawyer for application respondent(s)


...........................[
type or print name
]..........................
















Form F32.001 (Rule 10-6 (14.6) )


[Style of Proceeding]


REQUISITION — CHAMBERS PRACTICE



[Rule 22-3 of the Supreme Court Civil Rules applies to all forms.]



Filed by: .........................[
party(ies)
].........................

Required:

[  ] Order granting leave to provide application record late
[Rule 10-6 (14.3)]


[  ] Order to reinstate an application to today's hearing list
[
include date that the notice of application was filed
] [Rule 10-6 (14.4)]


[  ] Order as to costs or other directions [Rule 10-6 (14.5)]

This order/relief is sought because:

[
Set out the reasons why the order or relief is sought
]



Position of the other party(ies):

[

State whether other parties have a position with respect to this
application

]







Date: .........................................


..............................................................................

Signature of

[ ] filing party [ ] lawyer for filing party(ies)


........................[
type or print name
]........................





ORDER BY ENDORSEMENT
(to be completed by a judge or associate judge)

Order granted [  ] / refused [  ]

Conditions or directions:


.................................................................................................................


.................................................................................................................


Endorsed:

Judge/Associate Judge ................................
Date …...............................












Form F32.01 (Rule 10-9 (2) )


[Style of Proceeding]


REQUISITION — SHORT NOTICE



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



Filed by: ........................
[party(ies)]
........................


Required: An order pursuant to Supreme Court Family Rule 10-9 (1) that
the main application be brought on short notice.

This requisition is supported by the following:


[Include a description of supporting document(s). Each affidavit
included on the list must be identified as follows: Affidavit # …..
[sequential number, if any, recorded in the top right corner of the
affidavit] …. of ……….[name]………, made …..[date]…..".]


1
2




Date ...............
[date]
................


..............................................................................

Signature of

[  ] filing party [  ] lawyer for filing
party(ies)


...............[type or print name]...............





ORDER BY ENDORSEMENT
(to be completed by a judge, associate judge or registrar)


[  ]    Date set for hearing of main
application: …...................................


Conditions for Service:


Service by application of Notice of Application and applicant's
affidavits with this order on the respondent(s)


[  ]    before ….......................
a.m./p.m. on ............................................


Service of respondent(s)' Application Response and affidavits on
applicant:


[  ]    before .........................
a.m./p.m. on ............................................


Other Conditions:


[  ]    applicant must file application
record on or by ….........................


[  ]    ……………………………….....................................................................................


Endorsed:

Judge/Associate Judge/Registrar ...............

Date ...............
[date]
.....................













Form F32.1 (Rule 15-1 (3.1) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

ORDER SIGNING INSTRUCTIONS



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



Notice to: ......................................



You are requested to sign the attached draft order made by


Judge/Associate Judge ......... on .....................


I have drafted the order consistent with the terms prescribed by the
judge/associate judge as stated on the court record.


[

Check whichever one of the immediately following 2 boxes is correct
and provide any required information.

]


[ ] I have attached the clerk's notes relating to the order of
the judge/associate judge


[ ] I have not attached the clerk's notes relating to the
order of the judge/associate judge for the following reason(s): .....[
briefly state the reasons
].....


You are requested to return the signed order within 14 days of receipt.
Signing the order does not preclude your right to appeal.


If you disagree with the accuracy of the terms in the order you are
required to deliver your written objections to me within 14 days of
receiving the order.


I will consider your objections and if we are unable to agree on terms
to be included in the order an appointment to settle the order may be
filed in accordance with Rule 15-1 (13).


If the signed order is not returned to me, or written objection(s) to
any of the terms are not delivered to me, within 14 days of receipt, the
order may be submitted for entry in accordance with
Rule 15-1 (3.4).



Date Sent: .........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].........













Form F33 (Rules 10-7 (1) and 15-1 (1) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

CONSENT ORDER



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]







[ ]
A JUDGE OF THE COURT









or






BEFORE



[ ]
AN ASSOCIATE JUDGE OF THE COURT




.....[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].....








or








[ ]
A REGISTRAR






ON THE APPLICATION of ................................[
party(ies)
]................................, without a hearing and by consent;

THIS COURT ORDERS that:


[For each order, if any, made for parenting time, decision-making
responsibility, contact, parenting arrangements, child support or
spousal support, indicate whether the order is made under the Divorce
Act or the Family Law Act.]


1
2
3

THE FOLLOWING PARTIES APPROVE THE FORM OF THIS ORDER AND CONSENT TO EACH
OF THE ORDERS NOTED ABOVE.


[

A signature line in the following form must be completed and signed by
or for each consenting party.

]


..............................................................................

Signature of [ ] party

[ ] lawyer for .......[
name of party(ies)
].....


.........................[
type or print name
]........................


..............................................................................

Signature of [ ] party

[ ] lawyer for .......[
name of party(ies)
].....


.........................[
type or print name
]........................

By the Court.

..................................................................................

Registrar













Form F34 (Rule 10-8 (1) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

ORDER MADE WITHOUT NOTICE



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]









[ ]
A JUDGE OF THE COURT






BEFORE




or




.....[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].....







[ ]
AN ASSOCIATE JUDGE OF THE COURT








ON THE APPLICATION of ................................[
party(ies)
]................................;


AND ON THE COURT DETERMINING THAT a hearing is not required and notice
is not required;

THIS COURT ORDERS that:


[For each order, if any, made for parenting time, decision-making
responsibility, contact, parenting arrangements, child support or
spousal support, indicate whether the order is made under the Divorce
Act or the Family Law Act.]


1
2

3



THE FOLLOWING PARTY[IES] APPROVE THE FORM OF THIS ORDER:



..............................................................................

Signature of

[ ] party [ ] lawyer for .......[
name of party(ies)
].....


.........................[
type or print name
]........................

By the Court.

..................................................................................

Registrar













Form F35 (Rule 10-10 (2) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

REQUISITION — UNDEFENDED FAMILY LAW CASE



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



Filed by:
..............................[
party(ies)
]..............................


Required: final order, without a hearing, in the form attached


FILED WITH THIS REQUISITION ARE:


[

Check all of the following boxes and file the following with this
requisition.

]

[ ]  draft of the order sought;

[ ]  proof that the case is an undefended family law
case;


[ ]  certificate of the registrar in Form F36;

[ ]  filing fee.

[

Check the following box and file the following with this requisition
unless a response to family claim or response to counterclaim has been
filed or unless this case is a joint family law case within the
meaning of Rule 2-2 of the Supreme Court Family Rules

.]


[ ] proof of service of the notice of family claim or
counterclaim, as the case may be.


[

Check the following box and file the following document with this
requisition if




(a)  the family law case includes a claim for divorce and
the notice of family claim, response to family claim, counterclaim or
response to counterclaim identifies a child of the marriage within the
meaning of the
Divorce Act
(Canada), or




(b)  the family law case includes a claim for child support.

]


[ ]  Child Support Affidavit in Form F37.


[

Check the following box and file the following document with this
requisition if a divorce is sought.

]

[ ]  affidavit in Form F38.


[Check the following box and file the following document with this
requisition if corollary relief under the

Divorce Act
(Canada) is sought.]


[ ]  the most current Form F102 statement of information
for corollary relief proceedings, if any, filed by each party in
accordance with Rule 10-10 (2) (h).


[

If proof that this is an undefended family law case is being provided,
check whichever one of the 3 following applies, file the document with
this requisition and remove the boxes that have not been checked so
that they do not appear in the form when the form is filed.

]

[ ]  signed consent order
[ ]  notice of withdrawal

[ ]  other [
please provide details
]........................






Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

Signature of [ ] filing party [ ] lawyer for filing
party(ies)





...........................[
type or print name
]..........................













Form F36 (Rules 10-10 (2) and 14-4 (5) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

CERTIFICATE OF PLEADINGS



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



I CERTIFY the pleadings and proceedings in this family law case are in
order [
add the following if applicable:
except that
........................................................................................................................]
.





Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

Registrar
















Form F37 (Rule 10-10 (2) )


This is the .....[
1st/2nd/3rd/etc.
]..... affidavit


of .............[
name
]............. in this case


and was made on .......[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].........

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

CHILD SUPPORT AFFIDAVIT



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]




[Complete the form in accordance with the instructions found in the
bracketed italicized wording and then remove all bracketed italicized
wording so that it does not appear in the form when the form is
filed.]



I, ................[
name
]................, of ................................[
address
]................................, ................[
occupation
]................, SWEAR (OR AFFIRM) THAT:


1  I am the ................[
claimant/respondent
]................ .


2  The following is true to the best of my information and
belief:

(a) Parties:



Claimant's name
Province of residence






Respondent's name
Province of residence








(b) Children:

[Where options are provided in the table to this paragraph, select
whichever one of the options is correct and remove the option that has
not been selected so that it does not appear in the form when the form
is filed.]






Child's name



Birthdate

[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]



Age



Child now

living with




Relationship to

claimant




Relationship to

respondent








claimant

respondent


natural child

step-child


natural child

step-child







claimant

respondent


natural child

step-child


natural child

step-child







claimant

respondent


natural child

step-child


natural child

step-child







claimant

respondent


natural child

step-child


natural child

step-child





[

Select whichever one of the 3 following provisions is correct,
complete the selected provision and remove the provisions that have
not been selected so that they do not appear in the form when the form
is filed.

]


3 The ........[
notice of family claim/counterclaim
]........ includes a claim for a child support order.


3 The ........[
notice of family claim/counterclaim
]........ included a claim for a child support order but that claim has
been withdrawn.


3 The ........[
notice of family claim/counterclaim
]........ never included a claim for a child support order.



[Provide the information required under the child support guidelines
(the "Guidelines") by selecting and completing one or more of sections
4a, 4b and 4c that relate to that information and removing any
sections that do not relate to information required under the
Guidelines so that that/those section(s) do not appear in the form
when the form is filed.]



4a Claimant's annual income as determined under sections 15 to 20 of the
Guidelines: $............. .


4b Respondent's annual income as determined under sections 15 to 20 of
the Guidelines: $............. .


4c The claimant and the respondent have entered into an agreement as to
income pursuant to section 15 (2) of the Guidelines, a copy of which
agreement is attached. [

Attach a copy of the agreement to this affidavit and provide
explanation if the agreed amount is not in line with the Guidelines.

]


[

Select whichever one of the following 2 provisions is correct,
complete the selected provision and remove the provision that has not
been selected so that it does not appear in the form when the form is
filed.

]


5 The monthly amount in Schedule 1 of the Guidelines is $.............,
payable by the ................[
claimant/respondent
]................ .


5 I have completed and attached to this affidavit .......... [
Set out one or more of the following as applicable:
Supplementary Child Support Fact Sheet B / Supplementary Child Support
Fact Sheet C / Supplementary Child Support Fact Sheet D / Supplementary
Child Support Fact Sheet E / Supplementary Child Support Fact Sheet F]



[Note: Attach Supplementary Child Support Fact Sheet B if the
circumstances described in section 9 of the child support guidelines
exist, attach Supplementary Child Support Fact Sheet C if the
circumstances described in section 8 of the child support guidelines
exist, attach Supplementary Child Support Fact Sheet D if one or more
children is over the age of majority, attach Supplementary Child
Support Fact Sheet E if undue hardship is alleged and attach
Supplementary Child Support Fact Sheet F if at least one of the
party's income exceeds $150,000. Do not attach any Supplementary Child
Support Fact Sheet unless it is one required by this note to be
attached.]



[

Select whichever one of the 5 following provisions is correct,
complete the selected provision and remove the provisions that have
not been selected so that they do not appear in the form when the form
is filed.

]


6 The proposed order sets out that $................ is the amount of
child support payable by the ........[
claimant/respondent
]........, which amount accords with the child support guidelines.


6 The proposed order by consent, pursuant to section 15.1 (7) of the
Divorce Act
(Canada) or section 150 (2) of the
Family Law Act
, sets out that $................ is the amount of child support payable
by the ........[
claimant/respondent
]........, which amount is different than the amount required by the
Guidelines.


6 The proposed order sets out that $................ is the amount of
child support payable by the ........[
claimant/respondent
]........, which amount is different than the amount required by the
Guidelines, but the following special provisions, within the meaning of
section 15.1 (5) of the
Divorce Act
(Canada), have been made: .................................. .


6 The proposed order sets out that $.............. is the amount of
child support payable by the ........[
claimant/respondent
]........, in accordance with the agreement referred to in section 4 (c)
of this affidavit.


6 The proposed order does not include child support but the following
arrangements have been made for the support of the child:
................................................................................ .


[

Select whichever one of the 2 following provisions is correct, provide
any required information and remove the provision that has not been
selected so that it does not appear in the form when the form is
filed.

]


7 The expenses under section 7 of the Guidelines are not included in the
proposed order.


7 I have completed and attached to this affidavit Supplementary Child
Support Fact Sheet A, and the amount set out in the proposed order for
the expenses under section 7 of the Guidelines ("section 7 expenses") is
$............. .


[

Select whichever one or more of the 3 following provisions is/are
correct and remove the provision(s) that has/have not been selected so
that it/they do(es) not appear in the form when the form is filed.

]


8a Medical coverage is available for the children under the claimant's
medical insurance plan.


8b Medical coverage is available for the children under the respondent's
medical insurance plan.


8c Medical coverage is not available for the children under either of
the party's medical insurance plans.


[

Select whichever one of the 2 following provisions is correct, provide
any required information and remove the provision that has not been
selected so that it does not appear in the form when the form is
filed.

]


9 There is no order of any court in force dealing with support of the
children.


9 Attached as Exhibit(s) ..........[
A, B, C, D, as the case may be
]...............[
is/are
]..... the order(s) in force that deal(s) with the support of the
children.


[

Select whichever one of the 2 following provisions is correct, provide
any required information and remove the provision that has not been
selected so that it does not appear in the form when the form is
filed.

]


10 There is no agreement dealing with support of the children.


10 Attached as Exhibit(s) ....[
A, B, C, D, as the case may be
].... .....[
is/are
].... the written agreement(s) that deal(s) with the support of the
children.


11 The amount of arrears of child support, as at ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........, under any existing order or written agreement is .......[
nil/ $.....
]....... .




SWORN (OR AFFIRMED) BEFORE
)




ME at ........................., British Columbia

)




on ..........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].......... .

)

............................................................................




)




..........................................................

)



A commissioner for taking
)



affidavits for British Columbia
)





....[
print name or affix stamp of commissioner
]....



SUPPLEMENTARY CHILD SUPPORT FACT SHEET A —

SPECIAL OR EXTRAORDINARY EXPENSES



Section 7 expenses (net of tax credits and contributions from
child(ren), etc.)






Annual
Monthly


(a)
Child care expenses




(b)

Portion of medical and dental premiums attributable to the
child(ren)





(c)

Health related expenses that exceed insurance reimbursement by at
least $100





(d)

Extraordinary primary, secondary or other educational expenses





(e)
Post-secondary school expenses




(f)

Extraordinary extracurricular activities expenses





(g)
Total Section 7 expenses






Parties' respective proportionate shares of the total net monthly
Section 7 expenses referred to at line (g) above:





%
Amount


Claimant's proportionate share




Respondent's proportionate share






Total monthly child support payable by the ..........[
claimant/respondent
].......... after taking into account the monthly Guidelines table
amount under Schedule 1 of the Guidelines and the Section 7 expenses is
$.......... .



SUPPLEMENTARY CHILD SUPPORT FACT SHEET B — IF THE CIRCUMSTANCES
DESCRIBED IN SECTION 9 OF THE CHILD SUPPORT GUIDELINES EXIST






Claimant
Respondent



Number of children = ..........




Approximate percentage of time children spend with each parent

%
%



Annual Guidelines income [

determine amount under sections 15 to 20 of the Guidelines

]

$
$



Guidelines table amount [
use applicable amount from Schedule 1 of the Guidelines
]

$
$



Difference between the Guidelines table amount of the claimant and
the Guidelines table amount of the respondent $..........



Section 7 expenses paid directly by each party
$
$




Any other relevant information regarding the conditions, means, needs
and other circumstances of each spouse or of any child for whom support
is sought:
....................................................................................


It is proposed that child support in the amount of $......... per month
be paid by the...............[
claimant/respondent
]............... .



SUPPLEMENTARY CHILD SUPPORT FACT SHEET C — IF THE CIRCUMSTANCES
DESCRIBED IN SECTION 8 OF THE CHILD SUPPORT GUIDELINES EXIST






(a) Number of children principally resident with claimant for whom
support is claimed





(b) Respondent's annual Guidelines income [

determine amount under sections 15 to 20 of the Guidelines

]

$



(c) Guidelines table amount payable by respondent for ..........[
insert number from paragraph (a)
].......... children

$



(d) Number of children principally resident with respondent for
whom the claimant is obliged to pay support





(e) Claimant's annual Guidelines income [

determine amount under sections 15 to 20 of the Guidelines

]

$



(f) Guidelines table amount payable by claimant for ..........[
insert number from paragraph (d)
].......... children

$




Difference between Guidelines table amounts: ..........[
difference between paragraphs (c) and (f)
]..........



SUPPLEMENTARY CHILD SUPPORT FACT SHEET D — CHILD 19 YEARS OR OLDER



(a) Number of child(ren) 19 years of age or older for whom support is
claimed: ..........


(b) Child support is to be paid by the ..........[
claimant/respondent
] .......... (the "payor")


(c) Monthly Guidelines table amount of the payor under Schedule 1 of the
Guidelines: $.........


[

Select whichever one of the 2 following provisions is correct, provide
any required information and remove the provision that has not been
selected so that it does not appear in the form when the form is
filed.

]


The person swearing this affidavit says that the Guidelines table amount
is appropriate.


The person swearing this affidavit says that the Guidelines table amount
is inappropriate and that the appropriate amount would be $...... for
the following reasons: ................[

Give reasons to justify the proposed amount, having regard to the
condition, means, needs and other circumstances of the child and the
financial ability of each parent and the child to contribute to the
support of the child.

]................ .



SUPPLEMENTARY CHILD SUPPORT FACT SHEET E — UNDUE HARDSHIP



[

Complete this form only if it applies to you under section 10 (3) and
(4) of the Guidelines.

]





1 Responsibility for unusually high debts reasonably incurred to
support the family before separation or in order to earn a living



Owed to
Terms of debt
Monthly Amount



• [
list
]


• [
provide details
]


$.................

$.................




2 Unusually high expenses for exercising parenting time or contact
with, or access to, a child




Details of expense





• [
list
]


$.................

$.................




3 Legal duty under a court order or separation agreement to
support another person



Name of person
Relationship
Nature of duty








4 Legal duty to support a child, other than a child for whom
support is claimed, who is

(a) under age 19, or

(b) 19 or older but unable to be self-supporting because of
illness, disability or other cause



Name of person
Relationship
Nature of duty








5 Legal duty to support a person who is unable to be
self-supporting because of illness or disability



Name of person
Relationship
Nature of duty








6 Other undue hardship circumstances [
provide details
]





INCOME OF OTHER PERSONS IN HOUSEHOLD




Name of person
Annual income






Total





SUPPLEMENTARY CHILD SUPPORT FACT SHEET F — INCOME OVER $150,000




1

Total number of children for whom support is claimed = ..........




2
Guidelines table amount for $150,000 =
$..........


3

Plus ..........% of income over $150,000 [

determine applicable percentage from the Guidelines table

] =

$..........


4

Guidelines table amount

[
Total amount of lines 2 and 3
]

$..........




[

Select whichever one of the 4 following provisions is correct, provide
any required information and remove the provisions that have not been
selected so that they do not appear in the form when the form is
filed.

]


We have agreed on the Guidelines table amount set out in line 4 above as
the amount of child support.


We have agreed on an amount of child support that differs from the
Guidelines table amount and the amount of child support agreed on

(a) is $ ............., and

(b) differs from the Guidelines table amount because ..........[

provide details, having regard to the condition, means, needs and
other circumstances of the child and the financial ability of each
parent and the child to contribute to the support of the child

]......... .


We have not agreed on an amount of child support and the amount of child
support the claimant is claiming is the Guidelines table amount set out
in line 4 above.


We have not agreed on an amount of child support and the amount of child
support the claimant is claiming

(a) is $............. , and

(b) differs from the Guidelines table amount because ..........[

provide details, having regard to the condition, means, needs and
other circumstances of the child and the financial ability of each
parent and the child to contribute to the support of the child

] .......... .













Form F38 (Rule 10-10 (2) )


This is the ......[
1st/2nd/3rd/etc.
]...... affidavit


of ..............[
name
].............. in this case


and was made on .........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].........

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:

Claimant 1 [
joint family law case
]:

Respondent:

Claimant 2 [
joint family law case
]:


AFFIDAVIT — DESK ORDER DIVORCE



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]




[Complete the form in accordance with the instructions found in the
bracketed italicized wording and then remove all bracketed italicized
wording so that it does not appear in the form when the form is
filed.]



I, ................[
name
]................, of ................[
address
]................................, ................[
occupation
]................, SWEAR (OR AFFIRM) THAT:


1 I am ..........[
the claimant/the respondent/Claimant 1/Claimant 2
].......... .


2 There is no possibility of reconciliation between my spouse and me.


[

Select whichever one of the 2 following provisions is correct and
remove the provision that has not been selected so that it does not
appear in the form when the form is filed.

]


3 I believe that the facts set out in the notice of family claim are
true.


3 I believe that the facts set out in the response to family claim and
counterclaim are true.


[

Select whichever one of the 2 following provisions is correct, provide
any required information and remove the provision that has not been
selected so that it does not appear in the form when the form is
filed.

]


4 The certificate of marriage or certified copy of the registration of
marriage filed in this family law case fully and correctly describes the
true particulars of the marriage.


4 It is impossible to obtain a certificate of marriage or a certified
copy of the registration of marriage and instead, in accordance with
section 52 (1) (a) of the
Evidence Act
, I refer to the affidavit of ................[
name
]................, a person who was present at the marriage ceremony,
which affidavit is filed in this family law case.


[

Select whichever one of the 4 following provisions is correct,
complete the selected provision and remove the provisions that have
not been selected so that they do not appear in the form when the form
is filed.

]


5 [

Select this provision if the grounds for divorce are separation for
more than one year.

] I was living separate and apart from my spouse at the start of this
family law case and I have lived separate and apart from my spouse since
........ [
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........, except: ................[
provide dates of any periods of attempted reconciliation
]................ .


5 [

Select this provision if the grounds for divorce are adultery of a
spouse and there has been an admission of adultery.

] My spouse has admitted to me that .....[
he/she
]..... committed the acts of adultery alleged in Schedule 1 of the
................[
notice of family claim/counterclaim
]................ and


(a) as corroboration I refer to ..........[
Set out whichever one of the following is applicable:
the affidavit(s) of ................[
name(s)
]................, / the transcript of the examination for discovery of
................[
name
]................ marked as Exhibit "A" to this affidavit] .......... ,


(b) I have not condoned the conduct of my spouse that is alleged as the
grounds for divorce in that I have not forgiven my spouse for that
conduct, nor have I encouraged or acquiesced in that conduct.


5 [

Select this provision if the grounds for divorce are adultery of a
spouse and there has been no admission of adultery.

] I have no personal knowledge of the acts of adultery alleged in
Schedule 1 of the ..........[
notice of family claim/counterclaim
].......... and


(a) in proof of the adultery committed by my spouse I refer to
..........[
Set out whichever one of the following is applicable:
the affidavit(s) of ................[
name(s)
]................, / the transcript of the examination for discovery of
................[
name
]................ marked as Exhibit "A" to this affidavit].......... ,


(b) I have not condoned the conduct of my spouse that is alleged as the
grounds for divorce in that I have not forgiven my spouse for that
conduct, nor have I encouraged or acquiesced in that conduct.


5 [

Select this provision if the grounds for divorce are physical or
mental cruelty of a spouse.

] My spouse has treated me with physical or mental cruelty since the
date of the marriage as follows: ................[
provide details
]................ .


6 I am neither directly nor indirectly a party to an agreement or
conspiracy for the purpose of subverting the administration of justice,
or to any agreement, understanding or arrangement to fabricate or
suppress evidence or to deceive the court.


[

Select whichever one of the 2 following provisions is correct, provide
any required information and remove the provision that has not been
selected so that it does not appear in the form when the form is
filed.

]


7 There are no children of the marriage as defined by the
Divorce Act
(Canada).


7 There are children of the marriage as defined by the
Divorce Act
(Canada) and


(a) those children are ..........[

provide the full name, age and birth date of each child of the
marriage

]................,


(b) I have sworn a child support affidavit in Form F37, and


(c) the following arrangements for parenting have been made:
................[
provide details
]................ .


[

Select and complete the following provision if you are seeking a
change of name for yourself. If you are not seeking a change of name
for yourself, remove this provision so that it does not appear in the
form when the form is filed.

]


8 Pursuant to section 5 of the
Name Act
, I am seeking to change my name from
............................................ to
.......................................... . This application for a name
change relates only to myself.


[

Select and complete the following provision if you are seeking a
change of name for one or more minor children. If you are not seeking
a change of name for one or more minor children, remove this provision
so that it does not appear in the form when the form is filed.
Renumber this provision as section 8 if you are seeking a change of
name for one or more minor children and have not included a section 8
immediately before this provision.

]


9 Pursuant to section 5 of the Name Act, I am seeking to change the
name(s) of the minor child(ren) of the marriage as follows, and a copy
of the consent(s) to the change(s) of name referred to in this section
of .....................[
name
]................. who is/are ...............[
relationship to child(ren)
]................. is/are attached to this affidavit and marked as
Exhibit(s) ....[
A, B, C, D, as the case may be
].... . [

Complete the following for each minor child of the marriage for whom a
name change is sought.

]


from ................................................ to:
.................................................




SWORN (OR AFFIRMED) BEFORE
)




ME at ........................., British Columbia

)




on ..........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].......... .

)

............................................................................




)




..........................................................

)



A commissioner for taking
)



affidavits for British Columbia
)





....[
print name or affix stamp of commissioner
]....













Form F39 (Rule 11-4 (1) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

NOTICE OF DISCONTINUANCE



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



Filed by:
.................[
party(ies)
].................


TAKE NOTICE that .................[
party(ies)
].................


[

Check whichever one of the following boxes is correct and complete the
required information.

]


[ ] discontinue(s) this family law case against
.................[
party(ies)
].................


[ ] discontinue(s) the following claims(s) in this family law
case against .............[
party(ies)
].............:

(a)
(b)
(c)

[
Check the correct box(es).
]

[ ] Notice of trial has not been filed

[ ] Notice of trial has been filed and this discontinuance is

[ ] with the consent of all parties
[ ] by leave of the court




Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

Signature of [ ] filing party [ ] lawyer for filing
party(ies)





...........................[
type or print name
]..........................













Form F40 (Rule 11-4 (3) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

NOTICE OF WITHDRAWAL



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



Filed by:
.........................[
party(ies)
].........................


TAKE NOTICE that the respondent(s), ..............................[
name(s)
]..............................,


[

Check whichever one of the following boxes is correct and complete the
required information.

]


[ ] withdraw(s) ........[
his/her/their
]........ response to family claim in this family law case


[ ] withdraw(s) ........[
his/her/their
]........ response to family claim in respect of the following claim(s)
in this family law case:

(a)
(b)
(c)




Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

Signature of [ ] filing party [ ] lawyer for filing
party(ies)





...........................[
type or print name
]..........................













Form F41 (Rule 12-2 (2) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

SECURITY FOR RECEIVER



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



Date of this guarantee: ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........


Name and address of receiver:
...................................................................


Name and registered office of surety:
.......................................................


Liability of surety under this guarantee: $......................

Annual premium: $......................

This guarantee is made between the RECEIVER, THE SURETY AND HER MAJESTY
THE QUEEN in right of British Columbia.


1  The receiver and the surety hereby jointly and severally
covenant with Her Majesty the Queen in right of British Columbia that
the receiver will, from time to time, duly account for what the receiver
has already received since the date of the order appointing the receiver
and will hereafter receive or for what since the date of the order the
receiver has or will hereafter become liable to pay or account for as
receiver [
and manager
] and will pay every sum of money and deliver every property that the
court may direct.


2  If the receiver does not, for every successive
12 months computed from the date of the receiver's appointment, pay
at the office of the surety the annual premium noted above, then the
surety may apply to be relieved from all further liability under this
guarantee, except in respect of any damage or loss occasioned by any act
or default of the receiver in relation to the receiver's duties as
receiver [
and manager
] prior to the hearing and determination of the application.


3  A statement under the hand of the registrar of the amount
that the receiver is liable to pay and has not paid under paragraph 1
and that the loss or damage has been incurred through the act or default
of the receiver is conclusive evidence in any action by Her Majesty
against the receiver and surety, or either of them, or by the surety
against the receiver, of the truth of the contents of the statement and
constitutes a binding charge not only against the receiver and the
receiver's personal representatives, but also against the surety and its
funds and property without it being necessary for Her Majesty to take
any proceedings against the surety and the surety's funds and property
and without it being necessary for Her Majesty to take any proceedings
against the receiver for the recovery thereof and without any further or
other proof being given in that behalf in any action to enforce this
guarantee.


4  The liability of the surety under this guarantee is limited
to the sum noted above, provided that the registrar may give his or her
approval in writing to the reduction of the liability of the surety, in
which event the surety's maximum liability with respect to any acts or
omissions of the receiver subsequent to the date of the approval is
reduced accordingly and provided further that an endorsement executed by
the surety increasing the liability of the surety will be binding on the
surety with respect to any acts or omissions of the receiver subsequent
to the date of that endorsement.


5  The receiver will, on being discharged from office or on
ceasing to act as receiver [
and manager
], promptly give written notice of that discharge to the surety, and
also within 7 days after the notice give the surety a copy of any
order discharging the receiver.


6  The receiver and the receiver's personal representatives
will at all times hereafter indemnify the surety against all loss,
damage, costs, and expenses that the surety sustains by reason of the
surety having executed this guarantee.


In witness whereof, the receiver has hereunder set his or her hand and
seal and the surety has caused its common seal to be affixed ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........ .

SURETY [SEAL]
RECEIVER [SEAL]




Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


Approved:
...............................................................

Registrar





Endorsement to Guarantee No.

The liability of the surety under this guarantee has been increased from
$...................... to $......................, effective ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........ with respect to any acts or omissions of the receiver
subsequent to that date.

SURETY [SEAL]












Form F42 (Rule 12-2 (2) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

SECURITY OF RECEIVER BY UNDERTAKING



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



I, .............................., of .............................., in
the .............................. of ..............................,
the receiver [
and manager
] appointed by order made on ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........ by ........................... in this family law case, hereby
undertake to the court duly to account for all money and property
received by me as receiver [
and manager
] or for which I may be held liable, and to pay the balance from time to
time found due from me and to deliver any property received by me as
receiver [
and manager
] at such times and in such manner as the court directs.





Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

Receiver [
Manager
]





And we ..............................[
names and addresses of sureties
].............................. hereby jointly and severally undertake
to the court to be answerable for any default by
.........................[
name of receiver
]......................... as receiver [
and manager
] and on such default to pay as the court directs any amounts not
exceeding in the whole $.................... that may from time to time
be certified by the registrar to be due from the receiver, and we submit
to the jurisdiction of the court to determine any claim made under this
undertaking.





Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

Surety




................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

Surety




................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


Approved:
...............................................................

Registrar




Endorsement to Security

The liability of the surety under this guarantee has been increased from
$.................... to $...................., effective ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........ with respect to any acts or omissions of the receiver
subsequent to that date.





Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

Surety
















Form F43 (Rule 13-1 (2) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

NOTICE TO CROSS-EXAMINE



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



To: ....................[
party
]....................


And to: ..........[

name of person who prepared report under section 15 of the Family
Relations Act or section 211 of the Family Law Act

]..........

TAKE NOTICE THAT:

I, ..........[
name of party giving notice
].........., require ..........[

name of person who prepared section 15 report or section 211 report

].......... to attend at the trial of this family law case at the place,
date and time set out below to be cross-examined on the report dated
..........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].......... .


Place of trial: ..........................[
address
]..........................


Date attendance is required: ..........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]..........


Time attendance is required: ...........[
time of day
]............





Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

Signature of [ ] party giving notice

[ ] lawyer for party(ies) giving notice





...........................[
type or print name
]..........................













Form F44 (Rule 14-2 (1) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

NOTICE OF TRIAL



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



Filed by:
....................[
party
]....................


TAKE NOTICE that the trial of this family law case has been set down at
the following place, date and time:




City



Address of Courthouse




Date [
dd/mmm/yyyy
]




Time





..................................................................................

Registrar


[

Check whichever one of the following boxes is correct and complete any
required information.

]


The place of trial set out above is the place of trial set out in

[ ] the notice of family claim.

[ ] the order dated ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........ .


[

Check whichever one of the following boxes is correct and complete the
required information.

]


[ ] All parties agree that not more than ....................
is a reasonable time for the hearing of all evidence and argument in
this family law case.


[ ] There is a disagreement as to the estimate of a reasonable
time for the hearing of all evidence and argument in this family law
case. The estimates of the parties are as follows:




Name of party
Time Estimate















Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

Signature of [  ] filing party [  ] lawyer for
filing party(ies)


...........................[
type or print name
]..........................





Contact information for the parties and their lawyers is as follows:


[

Set out the full names, addresses and telephone numbers of all lawyers
having conduct of this family law case and of all parties who are not
represented by a lawyer and, in addition, any email addresses or fax
numbers that may be used for contact purposes.

]













Form F45 (Rule 14-2.1 (1), (2) and (3) )


[Style of Proceeding]


TRIAL BRIEF



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



Filed by:
.................
[party]
................. (the "filing party")



[The pages of this trial brief must be consecutively numbered.]



[Check the following box, if applicable]
[  ] This is an amended trial brief of the filing party.


The trial of this family law case is scheduled for .............[
number of days scheduled for trial
].............. days and is scheduled to begin on .........[
insert date
]........ . The total time needed respecting items 3, 4, 6, 9 and 11
(b), as applicable, is ........[

total, in hours, of all times indicated in items 3, 4, 6, 9 and 11 (b)
below

]........



[Check whichever one of the following boxes is correct and complete
any required information.]



[  ] The filing party expects the trial to complete
within the scheduled time.


[  ] The filing party expects the trial to require
........
[number]
........ days, and the filing party and counsel are available to
continue for ........
[number]
........ consecutive days following the currently scheduled completion
date.


The total time needed for orders or directions sought at the trial
management conference is _________, if proceeding [
total time of all applications in item 1 (c)
].


1 Trial Management Conference


(a) The filing party is represented by legal counsel and
anticipates being represented by counsel at the trial: [  ]
yes [  ] no


(b) The trial is set for hearing for more than 15 days:
[  ] yes [  ] no



[See Rule 14-3 (1) for when trial management conference is required.]



(c) The following orders or directions will be applied for at the
trial management conference:





Nature of order or direction


Time in hours needed for application

















If a trial management conference is not held, the parties are encouraged
to engage in pretrial communication that will result in the efficient
conduct of the trial, including provisions for joint book of
authorities, agreed statement of facts, and common book of documents.


2 Summary of Issues and Positions


The following is a list, in numbered paragraphs, of the issues in
dispute and the filing party's position on each:




Issue in dispute

Filing party's position



1
1


2
2




3 Witnesses to Be Called


The following are the names and addresses of the lay and expert
witnesses the filing party intends to call at trial, the issue(s) each
will address, an estimate of the time each will need for giving direct
evidence, and the filing party's opinion on whether, if the court so
orders or the parties all consent, the witness's direct evidence could
conveniently be given by affidavit:




Name
Address
Issue(s)

Evidence expected at trial:

(a) attached as a schedule or

(b) to be provided 14 days before trial


Time in hours needed


Direct evidence by affidavit

(Y/N)


Video Attendance Proposed by Filing Party

(Y/N)























4 Witnesses to be Cross-Examined


The following are the names of the witnesses the filing party
anticipates cross-examining at trial, and an estimate of the time the
filing party will need for each:




Name

Time in hours needed

















5 Expert Reports


The following are the expert reports the filing party intends to offer
as evidence at trial:




Name of expert
Area of Expertise
Date of report














6 Objection to Admissibility


The filing party intends to object to the admissibility of all or a part
of the following expert reports:




Name of expert
Area of expertise
Date of report
Basis of objection

Time in hours needed



















7 Documents, Exhibits and Authorities


(a) The parties [  ] have agreed on [  ] have not
agreed on [  ] have not yet discussed a common book of
documents.


(b) The filing party [  ] is in favour or [  ] is
not in favour of having a common book of documents. If not, provide
reasons:


(c) The parties [  ] have reached [  ] have not
reached [  ] have not yet discussed an agreement governing the
use and admissibility of documents.


(d) The filing party [  ] is in favour or [  ] is
not in favour of proceeding with an agreement governing the use and
admissibility of documents.


If yes, attach proposed form of document agreement.

If not, provide reasons:

(e) The filing party [  ] expects [  ] does not
expect that there will be a joint book of authorities.


8 Admissions


The filing party will admit the following facts at trial (attach
schedule if more space required):

1
2

9 Time Required for Submissions


The filing party estimates that ........
[time estimate, in hours]
........ will be needed for the filing party's opening statement and
........
[time estimate, in hours]
........ will be needed for that party's final submissions.


10 Orders That May Affect the Conduct of the Trial


The following orders may affect the conduct of the trial:




Date of order
Nature of order
















11 Applications Anticipated


(a) The following applications are anticipated to be made prior to
trial:




Name of application
Time estimate
















(b) The following applications are anticipated to be made during the
trial:




Name of application
Time estimate
















12 Trial Logistics

(a) Does this trial involve/require:

(i) out of town witnesses? yes [  ] no [  ]


If so, indicate where witnesses are traveling from: __________________


(ii) interpreters? yes [  ] no [  ]


If so, indicate language[s] required for which witnesses:
__________________


(iii) security concerns? yes [  ] no [  ]


If so, indicate whether sheriff required in the courtroom:
__________________


(iv) special equipment/courtroom arrangements? yes [  ] no
[  ]


Videoconferencing: yes [  ] no [  ]


Teleconferencing: yes [  ] no [  ]


Evidence Presentation System: yes [  ] no [  ]


Large courtroom: yes [  ] no [  ]

Other requirements: __________________

(b) How many people do you anticipate to be in attendance in person at
the trial?

[________] number of party attendees
[________] number of non-party attendees

13 Readiness


Are further amendments to the pleadings, applications, examinations for
discovery, interrogatories, admissions or expert reports required before
the trial?

[  ] yes [  ] no




Date: ................
[date]
.................


..............................................................................

Signature of

[  ] filing party [  ] lawyer for filing party


...............[type or print name]...............
















Form F46 (Rule 14-5 (1) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

TRIAL CERTIFICATE



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



Filed by:
.........................[
party
].........................


I, ....................[
name
]...................., ........[

the claimant/lawyer for the claimant/respondent/lawyer for the
respondent

]........, CERTIFY THAT:


1 I will be ready to proceed on the scheduled trial date, ........[
date trial is scheduled to begin — date
]........ at ..............[
place of trial
]................ .


2 My current estimate is that the trial will last ................ days.


3 I have completed all examinations for discovery.


4 A trial management conference has been conducted in this family law
case or was not required.


5 If the family law case is settled before trial, I will give the
registrar prompt notice of the settlement.


6 I will give the registrar prompt notice of any proposed adjournment of
the trial.





Date: ................
[date]
.................


..............................................................................

Signature of

[  ] filing party [  ] lawyer for filing party


...............[type or print name]...............
















Form F47 (Rule 14-7 (8) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

NOTICE TO PRODUCE



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



To: ......................[
party(ies)
]......................


TAKE NOTICE that ....................[
party(ies)
].................... require(s) you to produce at ........[

the trial of this family law case/the deposition examination of

....................[
name
]....................]........ all documents in your possession or
control relating to the matters in question [
and, if applicable, the following physical objects:
.........................................................................................................................................................]
.





Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


................................................................................

Signature of [ ] party requiring production

[ ] lawyer for party(ies) requiring production





..........................[
type or print name
]..........................













Form F48 (Rules 14-7 (15) and 21-2 (4) and (5) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

NOTICE OF INTENTION TO PROCEED



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



Filed by:
.........................[
party(ies)
].........................


To: .........................[
party(ies)
].........................


TAKE NOTICE that ....................[
party(ies)
].................... intend(s) to proceed with this family law case.





Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

Signature of [ ] filing party [ ] lawyer for filing
party(ies)





..........................[
type or print name
]..........................













Form F49 (Rule 14-7 (21) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:


NOTICE OF INTENTION TO CALL ADVERSE PARTY AS A WITNESS




[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



To: .......................[
name and address
].......................


TAKE NOTICE that ........................[
party(ies)
]........................ require(s) you to appear at the trial of this
family law case at ........[
time of day
]........ on ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........ at ..............[
place of trial
]............... for the purpose of being called as a witness under Rule
14-7 (20), (21) or (22) of the Supreme Court Family Rules.





Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


............................................................

Signature of [ ] party requiring appearance

[ ] lawyer for party requiring appearance





..........................[
type or print name
]..........................

Rule 14-7 (25) states:

(25) If a person called as a witness in accordance with subrule (21) or
(22) refuses or neglects to attend at the trial, to be sworn or to
affirm, to answer a proper question put to the person or to produce a
document that the person is required to produce, the court may do one or
more of the following:


(a) grant judgment in favour of the party who called the witness;

(b) adjourn the trial;
(c) make an order as to costs;

(d) make any other order it considers will further the object of these
Supreme Court Family Rules.













Form F50 (Rule 14-7 (38) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

WARRANT AFTER SUBPOENA



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



To any Peace Officer


WHEREAS ....................[
name and address of person
].................... was subpoenaed to give evidence at the trial of
this family law case and failed to attend [
or failed to remain in attendance
]; THIS COURT ORDERS you to apprehend and bring him or her promptly
before the court at
............................................................ and, after
that, to deal with him or her as directed.





Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

A Judge of the Supreme Court of British Columbia





..........................[
type or print name
]..........................













Form F51 (Rule 15-1 (1) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

ORDER MADE AFTER APPLICATION


[

Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.

]



[Complete the form in accordance with the instructions found in the
bracketed italicized wording and then remove all bracketed italicized
wording so that it does not appear in the form when the form is
filed.]







THE HONOURABLE JUSTICE








or A JUDGE OF THE COURT






BEFORE



or




.....[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].....







ASSOCIATE JUDGE








or AN ASSOCIATE JUDGE OF THE COURT






[

Select whichever one of the 2 following provisions is correct,
complete the selected provision and remove the provision that has not
been selected so that it does not appear in the form when the form is
filed.

]


ON THE APPLICATION of ......................[
party(ies)
]......................coming on for hearing at


...................... on ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........ and on hearing ................[
name of party/lawyer
]................ and ................[
name of party/lawyer
]................;


ON THE APPLICATION of ......................[
party(ies)
]......................without notice coming on for hearing at


...................... on ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........ and on hearing ................[
name of party/lawyer
]................;

THIS COURT ORDERS that:

[

If any of the following orders are by consent, indicate that fact by
adding the words "By consent," to the beginning of the description of
the order.

] [

If this order is to change, suspend or terminate a final order,
identify the judge by whom and the date on which that order was made.

] [

For each order, if any, made for parenting time, decision-making
responsibility, contact, parenting arrangements, child support or
spousal support, indicate whether the order is made under the Divorce
Act or the Family Law Act.

]

1
2
3

THE PARTIES APPROVE THE FORM OF THIS ORDER AND CONSENT TO EACH OF THE
ORDERS, IF ANY, THAT ARE INDICATED ABOVE AS BEING BY CONSENT:


[

A signature line in the following form must be completed and signed by
or for each approving party.

]


..............................................................................

Signature of [ ] party  [ ] lawyer for .......[
name of party(ies)
].....


.........................[
type or print name
]........................


..............................................................................

Signature of [ ] party  [ ] lawyer for .......
[name of party(ies)
].....


.........................[
type or print name
]........................

By the Court.

..................................................................................

Registrar












Form F51.1 (Rule 7-1 (15) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

ORDER MADE AT JUDICIAL CASE CONFERENCE


[

Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.

]



[Complete the form in accordance with the instructions found in the
bracketed italicized wording and then remove all bracketed italicized
wording so that it does not appear in the form when the form is
filed.]
















THE HONOURABLE JUSTICE






BEFORE



or




.....[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].....







ASSOCIATE JUDGE















AT A JUDICIAL CASE CONFERENCE in this family law case at
......................................................, on ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........, and on hearing ......................[
name of party/lawyer
]...................... and ......................[
name of party/lawyer
]......................;

THIS COURT ORDERS that:

[

If any of the following orders are by consent, indicate that fact by
adding the words "By consent," to the beginning of the description of
the order.

]

1
2
3

THE PARTIES APPROVE THE FORM OF THIS ORDER AND CONSENT TO EACH OF THE
ORDERS, IF ANY, THAT ARE INDICATED ABOVE AS BEING BY CONSENT:


[

A signature line in the following form must be completed and signed by
or for each approving party.

]


..............................................................................

Signature of

[ ] party  [ ] lawyer for .......[
name of party(ies)
].....


.........................[
type or print name
]........................


..............................................................................

Signature of

[ ] party  [ ] lawyer for .......[
name of party(ies)
].....


.........................[
type or print name
]........................






By the Court.





..................................................................................



Registrar














Form F51.2 (Rule 15-1 (1) )


[Style of Proceeding]


ORDER MADE AT TRIAL MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE








THE HONOURABLE JUSTICE






BEFORE



or




.....[
insert date of hearing
].....







ASSOCIATE JUDGE








THIS MATTER coming on for a Trial Management Conference at [
insert location of registry
] Law Courts on [
insert date of hearing
] and on hearing [
insert name of person appearing
], [

insert description of person appearing, i.e., counsel for the
claimant(s), appearing on their own behalf

], and [
insert name of person appearing
], [

insert description of person appearing, i.e., counsel for the
respondent(s)/appearing on their own behalf

];

THIS COURT ORDERS that:

1
[set out details]

2

THE FOLLOWING PARTIES APPROVE THE FORM OF THIS ORDER:





[

A signature line in the following form must be completed and signed by
or for each approving party.

]


..............................................................................

Signature of [  ] party

[  ] lawyer for .......[
name of party(ies)
].....


.........................[
type or print name
]........................


..............................................................................

Signature of [  ] party

[  ] lawyer for .......[
name of party(ies)
].....


.........................[
type or print name
]........................ .






By the Court






Registrar


















Form F52 (Rule 15-1 (1) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

FINAL ORDER


[

Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.

]



[Complete the form in accordance with the instructions found in the
bracketed italicized wording and then remove all bracketed italicized
wording so that it does not appear in the form when the form is
filed.]







THE HONOURABLE JUSTICE








or A JUDGE OF THE COURT






BEFORE



or




.....[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].....







ASSOCIATE JUDGE








or AN ASSOCIATE JUDGE OF THE COURT






[

Select whichever one of the 4 following provisions is correct, provide
any required information and remove the provisions that have not been
selected so that they do not appear in the form when the form is
filed.

]


This family law case coming on for trial at
................................, on ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........, and on hearing ................, [
add the following if applicable: the lawyer for
] the claimant and ................, [
add the following if applicable: the lawyer for
] the respondent, and on considering the evidence put forward [
add the following if applicable:
AND JUDGMENT being reserved to this date];


This family law case coming on for hearing at ...................... on
........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........ and on hearing ................[
name of party/lawyer
]................ and ................[
name of party/lawyer
]................, and on considering the evidence put forward;


This family law case coming on for summary trial under Rule 11-3 of the
Supreme Court Family Rules at .................... on .......[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........, and on hearing ..............[
name of party/lawyer
].............. and ..............[
name of party/lawyer
].............., and on considering the evidence put forward;


This family law case coming on as an undefended family law case without
an oral hearing under Rule 10-10 of the Supreme Court Family Rules, and
on considering the evidence put forward;

THIS COURT ORDERS that

[

If a divorce is granted, select whichever one of the 2 following
provisions is correct, complete the selected provision and remove the
provision that has not been selected so that it does not appear in the
form when the form is filed. If a divorce is not granted, remove both
of the following provisions so that they do not appear in the form
when the form is filed.

]


Subject to section 12 of the
Divorce Act
(Canada), the claimant, ................[
name
]................, and the respondent, ................[
name
]................, who were married at ................[
place
]................ on ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........, are divorced from each other, the divorce to take effect on
the 31st day after the date of this order.


Subject to section 12 of the
Divorce Act
(Canada), the claimant, ................[
name
]................, and the respondent, ................[
name
]................, who were married at ................[
place
]................ on ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........, are divorced from each other, the divorce to take effect on
........ [
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........ .

THIS COURT ORDERS that

[

If orders other than or in addition to divorce orders are made, set
out, in numbered paragraphs, the terms of all orders other than
divorce orders.

] [

If any of the following orders are by consent, indicate that fact by
adding the words "By consent," to the beginning of the description of
the order.

] [

For each order, if any, made for parenting time, decision-making
responsibility, contact, parenting arrangements, child support or
spousal support, indicate whether the order is made under the Divorce
Act or the Family Law Act.

] [

If no orders other than divorce orders are made, remove this provision
so that it does not appear in the form when the form is filed.

]

1
2
3

THE FOLLOWING PARTIES APPROVE THE FORM OF THIS ORDER AND CONSENT TO EACH
OF THE ORDERS, IF ANY, THAT ARE INDICATED ABOVE AS BEING BY CONSENT:


[

A signature line in the following form must be completed and signed by
or for each approving party.

]


..............................................................................

Signature of

[ ] party  [ ] lawyer for .......[
name of party(ies)
].....


.........................[
type or print name
]........................


..............................................................................

Signature of

[ ] party  [ ] lawyer for .......[
name of party(ies)
].....


.........................[
type or print name
]........................






By the Court.





..................................................................................



Registrar















Form F53

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 39.]












Form F54 (Rule 15-1 (1) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

PROTECTION ORDER


[

Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.

]








THE HONOURABLE JUSTICE






BEFORE



or




.....[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].....







ASSOCIATE JUDGE










Name of applicant:

................................................





Persons appearing:

................................................

Lawyer:

................................................





................................................

Lawyer:

................................................





[

Select one or more of the 10 following provisions, as applicable,
complete the selected provision(s) and remove the provision(s) that
is/are not selected so that it/they do(es) not appear in the draft
order when submitted for filing.

]


THIS COURT ORDERS, under section 183 of the
Family Law Act
, that........[
full name and date of birth of person restrained
]........ is restrained from directly or indirectly communicating with
or contacting........[
set out full name of protected person(s)
]........ .


THIS COURT ORDERS, under section 183 of the
Family Law Act
, that........[
full name and date of birth of person restrained
]........ is restrained from attending at, nearing or entering ........[
set out place(s) where person is not to attend
]........ .


THIS COURT ORDERS, under section 183 of the
Family Law Act
, that........[
full name and date of birth of person restrained
]........ is restrained from following ........[
set out full name of protected person(s)
]........ .


THIS COURT ORDERS, under section 183 of the
Family Law Act
, that........[
full name and date of birth of person restrained
]........ is restrained from possessing a weapon or firearm.


THIS COURT ORDERS, under section 183 of the
Family Law Act
, that........[
full name and date of birth of person restrained
]........ must not communicate with ........[
set out full name of protected person(s)
]........ other than as follows: ........[
specify
]........ .


THIS COURT ORDERS, under section 183 of the
Family Law Act
, that........[
full name and date of birth of person restrained
]........ must report to the court [
or to ........
[
specify person(s)
]........] as follows: ........[
specify
]........ .


THIS COURT ORDERS that any police officer, including any R.C.M.P.
officer having jurisdiction in the province of British Columbia, who is
provided with a copy of this order is directed to remove ........[
full name and date of birth of person restrained
]........ from ........[
location
]........ immediately [
or within a specified period of time
].


THIS COURT ORDERS that any police officer, including any R.C.M.P.
officer having jurisdiction in the province of British Columbia, who is
provided with a copy of this order is directed to accompany ........[
full name and date of birth of person
]........ to ........[
location
]........ as soon as practicable [
or within a specified period of time
] to supervise the removal of his/her personal belongings.


THIS COURT ORDERS that any police officer, including any R.C.M.P.
officer having jurisdiction in the province of British Columbia, who is
provided with a copy of this order is directed to seize from ........[

full name and date of birth of person from whom seizure is to be made

]........ any weapons or firearms and related documents.


THIS COURT ORDERS that this order expires on ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........ .


[
Add any further terms of protection order.
]

By the Court.

..................................................................................

Registrar



DISOBEYING THIS ORDER IS A CRIMINAL OFFENCE UNDER SECTION 127 OF THE

CRIMINAL CODE PUNISHABLE BY FINE OR IMPRISONMENT



TAKE NOTICE THAT any police officer, including any R.C.M.P. officer
having jurisdiction in the province of British Columbia, having
reasonable and probable grounds to believe that the person against whom
this order is made has contravened a term of this order may take action
to enforce the order, whether or not there is proof that the order has
been served on the person and, if necessary for the purpose of enforcing
the order, may use reasonable force. Enforcement action may include
arresting the person against whom this order is made without warrant in
accordance with section 495 of the Criminal Code.



AND TAKE NOTICE THAT unless the court otherwise orders in relation to
this order, this order expires one year after the date it is made.













Form F54.1 (Rule 15-1 (1) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: .........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

ORDER TERMINATING A PROTECTION ORDER



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]









THE HONOURABLE JUSTICE






BEFORE



or




.....[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].....







ASSOCIATE JUDGE










Name of applicant:

................................................





Persons appearing:

................................................

Lawyer:

................................................





................................................

Lawyer:

................................................





THIS COURT ORDERS, under section 187 of the
Family Law Act
, that the order dated ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........ made by [

name of justice or associate judge who made the order being terminated

] is terminated on ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]..........

By the Court.

..................................................................................

Registrar


Note: This order will be sent to the Protection Order Registry to advise
them to remove the terminated order from their registry.













Form F54.2 (Rule 15-1 (1) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

RESTRAINING ORDER



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]









THE HONOURABLE JUSTICE






BEFORE



or




.....[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].....







ASSOCIATE JUDGE










Name of applicant:

................................................





Persons appearing:

................................................

Lawyer:

................................................





................................................

Lawyer:

................................................





THIS COURT ORDERS, under section 46 (1) (a) of the
Family Maintenance Enforcement Act
, that ........[
full name and date of birth of person restrained
]........ is restrained from molesting, annoying, harassing or
communicating with, or attempting to molest, annoy, harass or
communicate with ........[
set out name of creditor, debtor, director or other person
]........ .


[
Add any further terms of restraining order.
]

By the Court.

..................................................................................

Registrar


TAKE NOTICE THAT any police officer, including any R.C.M.P. officer
having jurisdiction in the province of British Columbia, who finds the
party
.......................................................................
[name(s) of party(ies)]
............................ breaching any of the terms of this
restraining order may immediately arrest that party without warrant in
accordance with section 495 of the Criminal Code.













Form F55 (Rules 15-1 (13), 16-1 (20), (23) and (24) and 18-1 (6) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

APPOINTMENT



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]


I appoint:

Time: .......................................................


Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


Place: .......................................................


as the time and place for the: [

Check the correct box(es) and complete any required information.

]


[ ] assessment of the bill of costs of
.........................[
party(ies)
].........................


[ ] assessment of the expenses of .........................[
party(ies)
].........................


[ ] settlement of the terms of the order of ........[
Justice or Associate Judge
]........ made ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........


[ ] passing of accounts of ..........[
executor, administrator, receiver or other
]..........


[ ] reference under the
Court Order Enforcement Act


[ ] reference ordered by........[
Justice or Associate Judge
]........

[ ] assessment of sheriff's fee
[ ] other

Attached to this Appointment ......[
is/are
]...... the [ ] bill(s) of costs [ ] sheriff's bill(s)
[ ] order(s) that ......[
is/are
]...... the subject of this Appointment.





Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


.................................................................................

Associate Judge, Registrar or Special Referee





To: ........................[
name
]........................

TAKE NOTICE of the above appointment.

The person seeking appointment believes the matter for which this
appointment was sought:


[

Check all of the following boxes that are correct and complete the
required information.

]


[ ] is [ ] is not of a time consuming or contentious
nature


[ ] will require approximately ........[
time estimate
]........ to complete





Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

Signature of [ ] person seeking appointment

[ ] lawyer for person seeking appointment





...........................[
type or print name
]..........................


Address and telephone number of person seeking appointment or lawyer for
person seeking appointment:


Name: .......................................................


Address: ...................................................


..................................................................


Telephone: ................................................













Form F56 (Rule 15-2 (3) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

CERTIFICATE OF DIVORCE



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



This is to certify that ................[
name
]........ and ........[
name
]........, who were married at ................[
place
]................ on ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........, were divorced under the
Divorce Act
(Canada) by an order of this court which took effect and dissolved the
marriage on ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]......... .

GIVEN under my hand and the seal of this court

Date: ......................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].......................


..............................................................................

Registrar













Form F57 (Rule 15-4 (1) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

WRIT OF SEIZURE AND SALE



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



Name and address of lawyer or person causing this writ to be issued:
................................................


To the Sheriff


You are commanded promptly to seize and sell at public auction or by
tender for the best available price sufficient of the goods and chattels
of the undermentioned person to realize the sums set out on the back of
this writ, that are payable by virtue of the attached order of this
Honourable Court, together with your costs, fees and expenses for
executing this writ.


After carrying out the above instructions, you must pay to the person
specified on the back of this writ from the amount realized the sum or
sums that are payable to him or her and account therefor by return to
the court.





Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

Registrar





[
Back
]


Name and address of person whose goods and chattels are to be seized:
.......................................................


Amount remaining due and payable on judgment: $...............


Amount of costs remaining due and payable: $...............


Amount of interest on judgment and costs remaining due and payable:
$...............

Costs of party entitled to execution: $...............

Sheriff's costs [to be filled in by Sheriff]: $...............


Total [
to be filled in by Sheriff
]: $...............


Identity of person entitled to payment of judgment:
................................................













Form F58 (Rule 15-4 (2) and (4) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

WRIT OF SEQUESTRATION



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



Name and address of lawyer or person causing this writ to be issued:
................................................


To the Sheriff


You are authorized and commanded to enter on and take possession of all
the real and personal estate of ................[
name
]................ and to collect and receive the rents and profits of
his or her real and personal estate and keep the same under
sequestration in your hands until you are satisfied that that person has
complied with the attached order and has paid the costs, fees and
expenses of execution of the person entitled to execution and the costs,
fees and expenses for executing this writ.





Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

Registrar
















Form F59 (Rule 15-4 (3) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

WRIT OF POSSESSION



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



Name and address of lawyer or person causing this writ to be issued:
................................................


To the Sheriff


WHEREAS it was ordered, on ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........, that


[

Check whichever one of the following boxes is correct and complete the
required information.

]


[ ] the respondent, .............................., deliver to
the claimant, ......................................,


[ ] the claimant, ................................., recover
from the respondent, ..............................,


possession of ....................[
set out address and, if available, legal description of land
].................... (the "land");


YOU ARE COMMANDED promptly to enter the land and cause
....................[
name
].................... to have possession of it;


AND YOU ARE ALSO COMMANDED promptly to seize and sell at public auction
or tender for the best price available sufficient of the goods and
chattels of ....................[
name
].................... to realize the claimant's costs, fees and expenses
of execution and the costs, fees and expenses for executing this writ.





Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

Registrar
















Form F60 (Rule 15-4 (4) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

WRIT OF DELIVERY



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



Name and address of lawyer or person causing this writ to be issued:
................................................


To the Sheriff


WHEREAS it was, on ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........, ordered that the respondent,
................................, deliver to the claimant,
................................, the following goods:
................................[
describe the goods
]................................;


YOU ARE COMMANDED promptly to cause the goods to be delivered to
...............................;


AND YOU ARE ALSO COMMANDED promptly to seize and sell at public auction
or tender for the best price available sufficient of the goods and
chattels of ................................ to realize the claimant's
costs, fees and expenses of execution and the costs, fees and expenses
for executing this writ.





Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

Registrar
















Form F61 (Rule 15-4 (4) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

WRIT OF DELIVERY OR ASSESSED VALUE



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



Name and address of lawyer or person causing this writ to be issued:
................................................


To the Sheriff


WHEREAS it was, on ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........, ordered that the respondent,
................................, deliver to the claimant,
................................, the following goods:
................................[
describe the goods
]................................;


YOU ARE COMMANDED promptly to cause the goods to be delivered to
................................;


AND YOU ARE ALSO COMMANDED promptly to seize and sell at public auction
or tender for the best price available sufficient of the goods and
chattels of ................................ to realize the claimant's
costs, fees and expenses of execution and the costs, fees and expenses
for executing this writ;


If the goods that you are to have delivered to
................................ cannot be found within British
Columbia, then you are commanded to realize, in addition to any other
sums referred to in this writ, from the goods and chattels of
................................, the sum of $..............., together
with your costs, fees and expenses of so doing and pay the sum to the
claimant together with the claimant's costs, fees and expenses of
execution.





Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

Registrar
















Form F62 (Rule 15-4 (29) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF PAYMENT



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



I ACKNOWLEDGE PAYMENT of $................... in [ ] full [ ]
partial satisfaction of the judgment dated ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........ .





Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

Signature of party receiving payment





...........................[
type or print name
]..........................


Signed ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........ in the presence of


................................[
name
]....................................


................................[
address
].................................


................................[
occupation
]............................













Form F63 (Rule 15-5 (1) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant/Creditor/Petitioner/Other:
Respondent/Debtor/Petition Respondent/Other:


SUMMONS TO A DEFAULT HEARING

UNDER THE
FAMILY MAINTENANCE ENFORCEMENT ACT




[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



To: ............................[
name and address
]............................


It appears you have defaulted in a payment required under a support
order.*


........[
An affidavit/A statement of arrears
]........ is attached.


YOU ARE REQUIRED to appear before the Supreme Court of British Columbia,
at ................[
address
]................, under the
Family Maintenance Enforcement Act
, on ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........ at ........[
time of day
]........ or so soon after that as this matter may be heard, to show
cause why the order should not be enforced.





Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

Registrar




TAKE NOTICE:

If you do not appear at the default hearing, the court may issue a
warrant for your arrest or make an order in your absence.


*"Order" includes an agreement filed in the court under section 148 (2)
or 163 (3) of the
Family Law Act
.













Form F64 (Rule 15-5 (2) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant/Creditor/Petitioner/Other:
Respondent/Debtor/Petition Respondent/Other:


SUMMONS TO A COMMITTAL HEARING

UNDER THE
FAMILY MAINTENANCE ENFORCEMENT ACT




[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



To: ............................[
name and address
]............................


It appears you have defaulted in a payment you were required to make
under section 21 (1) (e) of the
Family Maintenance Enforcement Act
. ........[
An affidavit/A statement of arrears
]........ is attached.


YOU ARE REQUIRED to appear before the Supreme Court of British Columbia
at ................[
address
]................, under the
Family Maintenance Enforcement Act
, on ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........ at ........[
time of day
]........ or so soon after that as this matter may be heard, to show
cause why an order should not be made for your imprisonment.





Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

Registrar




TAKE NOTICE:

If you do not appear at the committal hearing, the court may issue a
warrant for your arrest or make an order in your absence.













Form F65 (Rule 15-5 (3) )

Court File No.: ........................ .
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant/Creditor/Petitioner/Other:
Respondent/Debtor/Petition Respondent/Other:

ARREST WARRANT



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



To any Peace Officer

WHEREAS this court is of the opinion that

[ ] ................................[
name and address of person
]................................


[ ] did not comply with a summons issued under the
Family Maintenance Enforcement Act


[ ] did not comply with an order issued under the
Family Maintenance Enforcement Act


[ ] there are reasonable grounds to believe that
................[
name of person
]................ is about to leave British Columbia in order to evade
or hinder the enforcement of a support order.


YOU are hereby ordered to apprehend ................[
name of person
]................ and promptly bring him or her before a judge of the
Supreme Court, and, after that, to deal with him or her as directed.





Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

A Judge of the Supreme Court of

British Columbia





...........................[
type or print name
]..........................













Form F66 (Rules 15-6 (1) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

SUBPOENA TO DEBTOR



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



To: ............................[
name
]............................


TAKE NOTICE that the amount set out in the endorsement below is now
owing by the debtor ....................[
name
].................... on the order dated ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........, a copy of which is attached.


YOU ARE REQUIRED TO APPEAR PERSONALLY at the courthouse at
.................[
address
]................. at ........[
time of day
]........ on ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........ to be examined on oath as to:

(a) the income and property of the debtor,
(b) the debts owed to and by the debtor,

(c) the disposal the debtor has made of any property, and


(d) the means the debtor has, or has had, or in future may have, of
satisfying the order.


WARNING:
Failure to attend at the hearing of this subpoena can result in your
arrest and committal to prison WITHOUT DELIVERY TO YOU OF ANY FURTHER
NOTICE OR DOCUMENT.





Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

Signature of [ ] creditor [ ] lawyer for creditor(s)





...........................[
type or print name
]..........................


Address for service of creditor(s):
................................................................................

Endorsement of Amount Payable

[

Set out, in the form of an account, the amount of the debt or
instalment owing, the costs incurred on the order and of proceedings
subsequent to the order, the amounts paid and dates of payment, the
interest owing and how computed.

]




Subtotal
$................



Add
Expenses of service by sheriff [

to be

endorsed by officer serving at the time of service

]


$
................



Total amount payable
$................




If the total amount payable is paid to the creditor or into court for
the account of the creditor before the date of the hearing, you are
excused from attending.













Form F67 (Rule 15-6 (8) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

EXAMINER'S REPORT



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



I, .................................., a registrar designated as an
examiner by the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of British Columbia
under Rule 15-6 (5) (c) of the Supreme Court Family Rules, report:


1 that a subpoena was issued under Rule 15-6 (1) directed to
.................................. . A copy of the subpoena is attached;


2 that the subpoena was served in accordance with the provisions of
Rule 15-6 (3) and proof of service filed;

3 that the person subpoenaed:

[
Check the correct box(es).
]


[ ] did not attend as required at the hearing;


[ ] refused to be sworn or to affirm or to answer any question
put to the person at the hearing;


[ ] after an order to that effect, refused or neglected to
produce or permit to be inspected any document or property;


[ ] did not give answers that were to the satisfaction of the
examiner;


4 that the lawyer for the creditor appeared at the time and place
and on the date fixed for the hearing;


5 that under Rule 15-6 (8) I have fixed ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........ at ........[
time of day
]........ at the courthouse at ....................[
address
].................... as the time and place for appearance before the
court.





Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

Examiner
















Form F68 (Rule 15-6 (12) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

NOTICE OF APPLICATION FOR COMMITTAL



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



To: ....................[
name of person
]....................


WHEREAS on ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........ the creditor, ....................[
name
]...................., obtained against you an order to pay
....................[
set out terms of order
]...................., and the creditor alleges that you have failed or
neglected to make payment in accordance with the order and that you knew
of the order;


TAKE NOTICE that an application will be made by the creditor at the
courthouse at ....................[
address
].................... at ........[
time of day
]........ on ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........ for an order committing you to prison;


AND TAKE NOTICE that the creditor will rely on the following
affidavit(s) in support of the application:


[

Using numbered paragraphs, list the affidavits on which the creditor
will rely. Each affidavit included on the list must be identified as
follows: "Affidavit #

.......... [

sequential number, if any, recorded in the top right hand corner of
the affidavit

].......... of ....................[
name
]...................., made ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........".]

1
2

WARNING:
Failure to attend at the hearing of this application can result in your
arrest and committal to prison

WITHOUT SERVICE ON YOU OF ANY FURTHER NOTICE OR DOCUMENT

.





Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

Signature of [ ] creditor [ ] lawyer for creditor(s)





...........................[
type or print name
]..........................


Address for service of creditor(s):
................................................................


Endorsement of Amount Payable

[

Set out, in the form of an account, the amount of the debt or
instalment owing, the costs incurred on the order and on proceedings
subsequent to the order, the amounts paid and the dates of payment and
the interest owing and how it was computed.

]




Subtotal
$................



Add
Expenses of service


$
................



Total amount payable

$
................





If the total amount payable is paid to the creditor or into court for
the account of the creditor before the date of the hearing, you are
excused from attending.













Form F69 (Rule 15-6 (15) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

ORDER OF COMMITTAL



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



BEFORE THE HONOURABLE JUSTICE ....[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]....

THIS COURT ORDERS that:

1  by reason of ...........................[
grounds of committal
]..........................., .................[
person to be committed
]................. be committed to prison for .......... days;


2  the sheriff and all peace officers arrest
.................[
person to be committed
]................. and bring him or her promptly before this court at
..............................[
address
].............................. and, unless otherwise ordered, deliver
him or her to the warden of ....................[
name of prison
]....................;


3  the warden receive .................[
person to be committed
].............. and keep him or her for .......... days from his or her
arrest under this order or until he or she is sooner discharged by due
process of law.

By the Court.

..................................................................................

Registrar


This order is in force for one year only from the date of the order.


Endorsement of Amount Payable

[

Set out, in the form of an account, the amount of the debt or
instalment owing, the costs incurred on the order and on the
proceedings subsequent to the order, the amounts paid and the dates of
payment and the interest owing and how it was computed.

]




Subtotal
$................



Add
—




1 Expenses of service
$................



2 Maintenance money [to be endorsed by warden at the time payment
is tendered]


$
................



Total amount payable

$................





If the total amount payable is paid to the registrar, or to the sheriff
or peace officer or warden who has you in his or her custody, then this
order will be discharged.













Form F70 (Rule 15-8 (5) )


This is the ......[
1st/2nd/3rd/etc.
]...... affidavit


of ..............[
name
].............. in this case


and was made on .........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].........

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

CERTIFICATE OF RESULT OF SALE



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]





Property Sold
Name of Purchaser
Price
Amount Received
Date of Sale

















Totals








I, ...............[
name
]..............., of ....................[
address
]...................., ....................[
occupation
]...................., SWEAR (OR AFFIRM) THAT:


1  I did, in accordance with the provisions of the order of
this court dated ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........, sell by ........[
auction or as the case may be
]........ the property described in the certificate on the day shown in
the certificate.


2  The result of the sale is truly set forth in the
certificate.




SWORN (OR AFFIRMED) BEFORE
)




ME at ........................., British Columbia

)




on ..........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].......... .

)

............................................................................




)
Person conducting sale



..........................................................

)



A commissioner for taking
)



affidavits for British Columbia
)





....[
print name or affix stamp of commissioner
]....













Form F71 (Rule 16-1 (19) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

BILL OF COSTS



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



This is the bill of costs of: ........................[
name(s)
]........................





PART A — SCALE OF DIFFICULTY








[
Check the correct box(es).
]





The scale of difficulty of the family law case





[ ] was determined by the court to be






[ ] less than ordinary difficulty

[ ] ordinary difficulty

[ ] more than ordinary difficulty





[ ] was not determined by the court and is
therefore ordinary difficulty.












PART B — TARIFF ITEMS



Item
Description
Basis of calculation
Amount



1

Correspondence, conferences, instructions, investigations or
negotiations and preparation, filing and service of pleadings and
petitions and responses to petitions


Scale of difficulty — from Part A of this bill of costs:






less than ordinary difficulty [
claim $1 000
]






ordinary difficulty [
claim $3 000
]






more than ordinary difficulty [
claim $5 000
]





2

Process for discovery and inspection of documents


Scale of difficulty — from Part A of this bill of costs:






less than ordinary difficulty [
claim $750
]






ordinary difficulty [
claim $2 000
]






more than ordinary difficulty [
claim $5 000
]





3

Preparation for and attendance at each examination for discovery


Number of days attendance at examinations for discovery:

..........(x $1 000)





4

Preparation for and attendance at each contested application


Number of 1/2 days attendance at contested applications:

..........(x $1 000)





5

Preparation for and attendance at each judicial case conference or
settlement conference


Number of 1/2 days attendance at judicial case conferences and
settlement conferences:

..........(x $1 000)





6

Preparation for and attendance at each uncontested application or
trial management conference


Number of uncontested applications and trial management
conferences:

.......... (x $500)





7

Preparation for and attendance at trial of family law case or of
an issue in a family law case


Number of days attendance at trial for each day of trial up to and
including the 5th day of trial:

..........(x $2 000)






Number of days attendance at trial for each day of trial after the
5th day of trial:

..........(x $3 000)





8

Preparation for and attendance at each examination in aid of
execution and subpoena to debtor


$250



9

All process relating to execution on or enforcement of an order —
other than applications to court


$250




TOTAL










PART C — OTHER COSTS AWARDED THE PARTY PRESENTING THE BILL




Description of costs awarded

Date of order by which

award of costs was

made

Costs allowed
















TOTAL OTHER COSTS









PART D — TOTAL COSTS




TOTAL COSTS ALLOWED:

TOTAL from Part B + TOTAL OTHER COSTS from Part C =





Applicable taxes =





TOTAL COSTS AND TAX









PART E — DISBURSEMENTS



Description
Claimed
Allowed

Applicable taxes

Total

















































TOTAL DISBURSEMENTS AND TAX









TOTAL COSTS AND DISBURSEMENTS:



TOTAL COSTS AND TAX from Part D +



TOTAL DISBURSEMENTS AND TAX from Part E =









Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

Signature of assessing officer
















Form F71.1 (Rule 16-2 (4) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

LIST OF EXPENSES



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



This is the list of expenses of: ........................[
name(s)
]........................




Description

Amount

Claimed


Amount

Allowed

































TOTAL EXPENSES









Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


...............................................................................

Signature of assessing officer
















Form F72 (Rule 16-1 (25) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

CERTIFICATE OF COSTS OR EXPENSES



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]


I CERTIFY
[ ] by consent of the parties
[ ] following assessment

that on ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........, the .......[
costs/expenses
]....... of ....................[
party(ies)
].................... have been allowed against ....................[
party(ies)
].................... in the amount of $............. .

Consented to:

[

If this certificate is filed by consent, a signature line in the
following form must be completed and signed by or for each consenting
party.

]



..............................................................................

Signature of [ ] party [ ] lawyer for .......[
name of party(ies)
].....


.........................[
type or print name
]........................


..............................................................................

Signature of [ ] party [ ] lawyer for .......[
name of party(ies)
].....


.........................[
type or print name
]........................





Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

Registrar





[

This certificate may be set out in a separate document or may be
endorsed on the bill of costs or list of expenses.

]













Form F73 (Rule 17-1 (2) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Petitioner:
Respondent:

PETITION TO THE COURT



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]


ON NOTICE TO:

............................[
name and address of each person to be served
]............................

The address of the registry is:

The petitioner(s) estimate(s) that the hearing of the petition will take
...........[
time estimate
]........... .


This family law case is brought, for the relief set out in Part 1 below,
by


[

Check whichever one of the following boxes is correct and complete any
required information.

]


[ ] the person(s) named as petitioner(s) in the style of
proceedings above


[ ] .........[
name(s)
]................. (the petitioner(s) )


If you intend to respond to this petition, you or your lawyer must


(a) file a response to petition in Form F74 of the Supreme Court Family
Rules in the above-named registry of this court within the time for
response to petition described below, and

(b) serve on the petitioner(s)

(i) 2 copies of the filed response to petition, and


(ii) 2 copies of each filed affidavit on which you intend to rely at the
hearing.



Orders, including orders granting the relief claimed, may be made
against you, without any further notice to you, if you fail to file
the response to petition within the time for response.



Time for response to petition


A response to petition must be filed and served on the petitioner(s),


(a) if you were served with the petition anywhere in Canada, within 21
days after that service,


(b) if you were served with the petition anywhere in the United States
of America, within 35 days after that service,


(c) if you were served with the petition anywhere else, within 49 days
after that service, or


(d) if the time for response has been set by order of the court, within
that time.




(1)

The ADDRESS FOR SERVICE of the petitioner(s) is: ..........[

Set out the street address of the address for service for each
petitioner. One or both of a fax number and an e-mail address
may be given as additional addresses for service.

]..........


Fax number address for service (if any) of the petitioner(s):

E-mail address for service (if any) of the petitioner(s):



(2)

The name and office address of the petitioner's(s') lawyer is:






Claim of the Petitioner(s)

Part 1: ORDER(S) SOUGHT


[

Using numbered paragraphs, set out the order(s) that will be sought at
the hearing of the petition and

indicate against which respondent(s) the order(s) is(are) sought.

]

1
2

Part 2: FACTUAL BASIS


[

Using numbered paragraphs, set out the material facts on which this
petition is based.

]

1
2

Part 3: LEGAL BASIS


[

Using paragraphs numbered sequentially from Part 2 above, specify any
rule or other enactment relied on and provide a brief summary of any
other legal bases on which the petitioner(s) intend(s) to rely in
support of the orders sought.

]

3
4

Part 4: MATERIAL TO BE RELIED ON


[

Using numbered paragraphs, list the affidavits served with the
petition. Each affidavit included on the list

must be identified as follows:

"Affidavit #..........[

sequential number, if any, recorded in the top right hand

corner of the affidavit

].......... of ..........[
name
].........., made ........[
date
]........".]

1
2




Date: ................[
date
].................


..................................................................................

Signature of

[ ] petitioner [ ] lawyer for petitioner(s)





...........................[
type or print name
].........................





To be completed by the court only:

Order made

[ ] in the terms requested in paragraphs
...................... of Part 1 of this petition

[ ] with the following variations and additional terms:

..............................................................................................................

..............................................................................................................

..............................................................................................................




Date: .......[
date
]........


....................................................

Signature of [ ] Judge [ ] Associate Judge














The following certificate must be completed by each party to a
divorce claim.












PARTY'S CERTIFICATE (
Divorce Act
(Canada), s. 7.6)






[  ]


By checking this box, I, ................[
name of party
]................, certify that I am aware of my duties under
sections 7.1 to 7.5 of the
Divorce Act
(Canada), which say:




7.1


A person to whom parenting time or decision-making responsibility
has been allocated in respect of a child of the marriage or who
has contact with that child under a contact order shall exercise
that time, responsibility or contact in a manner that is
consistent with the best interests of the child.




7.2


A party to a proceeding under this Act shall, to the best of their
ability, protect any child of the marriage from conflict arising
from the proceeding.




7.3


To the extent that it is appropriate to do so, the parties to a
proceeding shall try to resolve the matters that may be the
subject of an order under this Act through a family dispute
resolution process.




7.4


A party to a proceeding under this Act or a person who is subject
to an order made under this Act shall provide complete, accurate
and up-to-date information if required to do so under this Act.




7.5


For greater certainty, a person who is subject to an order made
under this Act shall comply with the order until it is no longer
in effect.














The following certificate must be completed for each party to a
divorce claim who is represented by a legal adviser.












LEGAL ADVISER'S CERTIFICATE (
Divorce Act
(Canada), s. 7.7 (3))






[  ]


By checking this box, I, ................................, legal
adviser for ................[
name of party
]................, certify that I have complied with section 7.7
of the
Divorce Act
(Canada), which says:



7.7

(1) Unless the circumstances of the case are of such a nature that
it would clearly not be appropriate to do so, it is the duty of
every legal adviser who undertakes to act on a spouse's behalf in
a divorce proceeding






(a) to draw to the attention of the spouse the provisions of this
Act that have as their object the reconciliation of spouses; and






(b) to discuss with the spouse the possibility of the
reconciliation of the spouses and to inform the spouse of the
marriage counselling or guidance facilities known to the legal
adviser that might be able to assist the spouses to achieve a
reconciliation.





(2) It is also the duty of every legal adviser who undertakes to
act on a person's behalf in any proceeding under this Act






(a) to encourage the person to attempt to resolve the matters that
may be the subject of an order under this Act through a family
dispute resolution process, unless the circumstances of the case
are of such a nature that it would clearly not be appropriate to
do so;






(b) to inform the person of the family justice services known to
the legal adviser that might assist the person







(i) in resolving the matters that may be the subject of an order
under this Act, and







(ii) in complying with any order or decision made under this Act;
and






(c) to inform the person of the parties' duties under this Act.
















Form F74 (Rule 17-1 (5) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Petitioner:
Respondent:

RESPONSE TO PETITION



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



Filed by:
.........................[
party(ies)
]......................... (the "petition respondent(s)")


THIS IS A RESPONSE TO the petition filed ........[
date
]........ .


The petition respondent(s) estimate(s) that the application will take
........[
time estimate
]........ .


Part 1: ORDERS CONSENTED TO


The petition respondent(s) consent(s) to the granting of the orders set
out in the following paragraphs of Part 1 of the petition: ........[
set out paragraph numbers
]........ .


Part 2: ORDERS OPPOSED


The petition respondent(s) oppose(s) the granting of the orders set out
in paragraphs ........[
list paragraph numbers
]........ of Part 1 of the petition.


Part 3: ORDERS ON WHICH NO POSITION IS TAKEN


The petition respondent(s) take(s) no position on the granting of the
orders set out in paragraphs ........[
list paragraph numbers
]........ of Part 1 of the petition.


Part 4: FACTUAL BASIS


[

Using numbered paragraphs, set out a brief summary of the material
facts on which the orders sought in

the petition should not be granted.

]

1
2

Part 5: LEGAL BASIS


[

Using paragraphs numbered sequentially from Part 4 above, specify any
rule or other enactment relied on and provide a brief summary of any
other legal bases on which the petition respondent(s) intend(s) to
rely in opposing the orders sought in the petition. In addition, a
written argument may be provided to the court in opposition to the
petition.

]

3
4

Part 6: MATERIAL TO BE RELIED ON


[

Using numbered paragraphs, list the affidavits served with this
response to petition and any other

affidavits and other documents already in the court file on which the
petition respondent(s) will rely. Each

affidavit included on the list must be identified as follows:

"Affidavit #..........[

sequential number, if any,

recorded in the top right hand corner of the affidavit

].......... of ..........[
name
].........., made ........

[
date
]........".]

1
2




Date: ................[
date
].................


..................................................................................

Signature of [ ] petition respondent

[ ] lawyer for petition respondent(s)





...........................[
type or print name
]..........................


Petition respondent's(s') address for service: [

Set out the street address of the address for service. One or both of
a fax number and an e-mail address may be given as additional
addresses for service.

]

Fax number address for service (if any):
E-mail address for service (if any):
Name of the petition respondent's(s') lawyer, if any:










The following certificate must be completed by each party to a
divorce claim.












PARTY'S CERTIFICATE (
Divorce Act
(Canada), s. 7.6)






[  ]


By checking this box, I, ................[
name of party
]................, certify that I am aware of my duties under
sections 7.1 to 7.5 of the
Divorce Act
(Canada), which say:




7.1


A person to whom parenting time or decision-making responsibility
has been allocated in respect of a child of the marriage or who
has contact with that child under a contact order shall exercise
that time, responsibility or contact in a manner that is
consistent with the best interests of the child.




7.2


A party to a proceeding under this Act shall, to the best of their
ability, protect any child of the marriage from conflict arising
from the proceeding.




7.3


To the extent that it is appropriate to do so, the parties to a
proceeding shall try to resolve the matters that may be the
subject of an order under this Act through a family dispute
resolution process.




7.4


A party to a proceeding under this Act or a person who is subject
to an order made under this Act shall provide complete, accurate
and up-to-date information if required to do so under this Act.




7.5


For greater certainty, a person who is subject to an order made
under this Act shall comply with the order until it is no longer
in effect.














The following certificate must be completed for each party to a
divorce claim who is represented by a legal adviser.












LEGAL ADVISER'S CERTIFICATE (
Divorce Act
(Canada), s. 7.7 (3))






[  ]


By checking this box, I, ................................, legal
adviser for ................[
name of party
]................, certify that I have complied with section 7.7
of the
Divorce Act
(Canada), which says:



7.7

(1) Unless the circumstances of the case are of such a nature that
it would clearly not be appropriate to do so, it is the duty of
every legal adviser who undertakes to act on a spouse's behalf in
a divorce proceeding






(a) to draw to the attention of the spouse the provisions of this
Act that have as their object the reconciliation of spouses; and






(b) to discuss with the spouse the possibility of the
reconciliation of the spouses and to inform the spouse of the
marriage counselling or guidance facilities known to the legal
adviser that might be able to assist the spouses to achieve a
reconciliation.





(2) It is also the duty of every legal adviser who undertakes to
act on a person's behalf in any proceeding under this Act






(a) to encourage the person to attempt to resolve the matters that
may be the subject of an order under this Act through a family
dispute resolution process, unless the circumstances of the case
are of such a nature that it would clearly not be appropriate to
do so;






(b) to inform the person of the family justice services known to
the legal adviser that might assist the person







(i) in resolving the matters that may be the subject of an order
under this Act, and







(ii) in complying with any order or decision made under this Act;
and






(c) to inform the person of the parties' duties under this Act.
















Form F75 (Rule 17-1 (8) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Petitioner:
Respondent:

NOTICE OF HEARING



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



To: ................[
name(s) of petition respondent(s), if any
]................


TAKE NOTICE that the petition of ................[
party(ies)
]........ dated ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........ will be heard at the courthouse at ................[
address
]................ on ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........ at ........[
time of day
]........ .


1 Date of hearing


[
Check whichever one of the following boxes is correct.
]


[ ] The parties have agreed as to the date of the hearing of
the petition.


[ ] The parties have been unable to agree as to the date of
the hearing but notice of the hearing will be given to the petition
respondents in accordance with Rule 17-1 (8) (b) of the Supreme Court
Family Rules.


[ ] The petition is unopposed, by consent or without notice.


2 Duration of hearing


[

Check the correct box(es) and complete the required information.

]


[ ] It has been agreed by the parties that the hearing will
take ........[
time estimate
]........ .


[ ] The parties have been unable to agree as to how long the
hearing will take and


(a) the time estimate of the petitioner(s) is ............. minutes, and


(b) [ ] the time estimate of the petition respondent(s)
is ............. minutes.


[ ] the petition respondent(s) has(have) not given a time
estimate.


3 Jurisdiction


[
Check whichever one of the following boxes is correct.
]


[ ] This matter is within the jurisdiction of an associate
judge.


[ ] This matter is not within the jurisdiction of an associate
judge.





Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

Signature of [ ] petitioner [ ] lawyer for petitioner(s)





...........................[
type or print name
]..........................













Form F76 (Rule 18-1 (18) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

NOTICE OF ORDER



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



To: ................[
name and address of each person to be served
]................


TAKE NOTICE of the order of ................ dated ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........, a copy of which is attached.


You may apply to court within 28 days after service of this notice
on you to discharge, vary or add to the order.


Alternatively, you may file a form entitled "Notice of Interest" in the
above registry of this court and serve a copy of the "Notice of
Interest" on each of the following parties at their respective addresses
for service set out below, following which you are entitled to take part
in the proceeding taken under the order.





Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

Signature of [ ] party serving this notice

[ ] lawyer for party(ies) serving this notice





...........................[
type or print name
]..........................


Name and address for service of each party serving this notice: [

Set out the street address of the address for service. One or both of
a fax number and an e-mail address may be given as additional
addresses for service.

]

Fax number address for service (if any):
E-mail address for service (if any):












Form F77 (Rules 18-1 (22) and 18-3 (8) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

NOTICE OF INTEREST



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



TAKE NOTICE that I have an interest in this family law case.


Name: ................................................................


Address for service: [

Set out the street address of the address for service. One or both of
a fax number and an e-mail address may be given as additional
addresses for service.

]

Fax number address for service (if any):
E-mail address for service (if any):




Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

Signature of [ ] filing person [ ] lawyer for filing
person(s)





...........................[
type or print name
]..........................













Form F78 (Rule 18-2 (1) and (3) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

JURISDICTIONAL RESPONSE



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



The respondent, ........................[
name
]........................,


[
Check one or both of the following boxes as applicable.
]


[ ] disputes that this court has jurisdiction over this
respondent


[ ] submits that this court ought not to exercise its
jurisdiction over this respondent





Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

Signature of [ ] respondent [ ] lawyer for respondent





...........................[
type or print name
]..........................


Respondent's address for service: [

Set out the street address of the address for service. One or both of
a fax number and an e-mail address may be given as additional
addresses for service.

]

Fax number address for service (if any):
E-mail address for service (if any):












Form F79 (Rule 18-3 (2) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Appellant:
Respondent:

NOTICE OF APPEAL IF DIRECTIONS REQUIRED



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



To: ................[
name of person or body appealed from
]................


And to: ................[

name(s) of all other persons who may be affected by the order sought

]................


WHEREAS on ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........, ................[

name of person or body from whose decision/direction/order appeal is
brought

]................ made the following [ ] decision [ ]
direction [ ] order [
add, if applicable
, in ........[
Action Number/File Number
]........]: ................[
state concisely the decision, direction or order
]................;


AND WHEREAS an appeal lies to [ ] this court [ ] a judge of
this court under ................[
name and section of enactment allowing appeal
]................;


TAKE NOTICE that ................[
name(s) of appellant(s)
]................ appeal(s) from the [ ] decision [ ]
direction [ ] order on the following grounds: ................[
concisely set out grounds of appeal
]................;


AND TAKE NOTICE that on ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........, at the courthouse at ................[
address
]................, an application will be made to the presiding judge at
........[
time of day
]........ for directions as to the conduct of the appeal [
or as the case may be
].


The appellant(s) estimate(s) that the hearing of the appeal will take
...........[
time estimate
]........... .


IF YOU INTEND to oppose the appeal, YOU MUST GIVE NOTICE of your
intention by filing in the above registry of this court a form entitled
Notice of Interest and YOU MUST ALSO SERVE a copy of the Notice of
Interest on the appellant's(s') address for service set out in this
Notice of Appeal.


YOU OR YOUR LAWYER may file the Notice of Interest. You may obtain a
form of Notice of Interest at the registry.


Time for Notice of Interest


A Notice of Interest must be filed and served on the appellant(s),


(a) if you were served with the notice of appeal anywhere in Canada,
within 7 days after that service,


(b) if you were served with the notice of appeal anywhere in the United
States of America, within 14 days after that service,


(c) if you were served with the notice of appeal anywhere else, within
28 days after that service, or


(d) if the time for Notice of Interest has been set by order of the
court, within that time.


The appellant's(s') address for service is: [

Set out the street address of the address for service. One or both of
a fax number and an e-mail address may be given as additional
addresses for service.

]

Fax number for service (if any):
E-mail address for service (if any):




Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

Signature of [ ] appellant [ ] lawyer for appellant(s)





...........................[
type or print name
]..........................













Form F80 (Rule 18-3 (2) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Appellant:
Respondent:

NOTICE OF APPEAL — STANDARD DIRECTIONS



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



To: ........[
name of person or body appealed from
]........


And to : ........[

name(s) of all other persons who may be affected by the order sought

]........


WHEREAS on ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........, ................[

name(s) of person or body from whose decision/direction/order appeal
is brought

]................ made the following [ ] decision [ ]
direction [ ] order [
add, if applicable
, in ........[
Action Number/File Number
]........]: ........[
state concisely the decision, direction, or order
]........;


AND WHEREAS an appeal lies to [ ] this court [ ] a judge of
this court under ...................[
name and section of enactment allowing appeal
]....................;


TAKE NOTICE that ....................[
name(s) of appellant(s)
].................... appeal(s) from the [ ] decision [ ]
direction [ ] order on the following grounds: ................[
concisely set out grounds of appeal
]................ .


ATTACHED is the standard set of directions, in the form directed by the
Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of British Columbia, governing the
conduct of the appeal.


The appellant(s) estimate(s) that the hearing of the appeal will take
...........[
time estimate
]........... .


IF YOU INTEND to oppose the appeal, YOU MUST GIVE NOTICE of your
intention by filing in the above registry of this court a form entitled
Notice of Interest and YOU MUST ALSO SERVE a copy of the Notice of
Interest on the appellant's(s') address for service set out in this
Notice of Appeal.


YOU OR YOUR LAWYER may file the Notice of Interest. You may obtain a
form of Notice of Interest at the registry.


Time for Notice of Interest


A Notice of Interest must be filed and served on the appellant(s),


(a) if you were served with the notice of appeal anywhere in Canada,
within 7 days after that service,


(b) if you were served with the notice of appeal anywhere in the United
States of America, within 14 days after that service,


(c) if you were served with the notice of appeal anywhere else, within
28 days after that service, or


(d) if the time for Notice of Interest has been set by order of the
court, within that time.


The appellant's(s') address for service is: [

Set out the street address of the address for service. One or both of
a fax number and an e-mail address may be given as additional
addresses for service.

]

Fax number address for service (if any):
E-mail address for service (if any):




Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

Signature of [ ] appellant [ ] lawyer for appellant(s)





...........................[
type or print name
]..........................













Form F81 (Rule 18-3 (9) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Appellant:
Respondent:

NOTICE OF HEARING OF APPEAL



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



TAKE NOTICE that this appeal will be heard at ........[
time of day
]........ on ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........, at ........................[
address
]........................ .


...........................................................................

Registrar

Time estimate: ........................

..................................................................................

Signature of [ ] appellant [ ] lawyer for appellant(s)


...........................[
type or print name
]..........................













Form F82 (Rule 18-3 (10) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Appellant:
Respondent:

NOTICE OF ABANDONMENT OF APPEAL



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



TAKE NOTICE that the appellant, ...........[
name
]............., abandons this appeal.


[
Check the correct box and complete any required information.
]


[ ] This appeal has not yet been set for hearing.


[ ] The date scheduled for the hearing of this appeal is
........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........ .





Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................

Signature of [ ] appellant [ ] lawyer for appellant(s)





...........................[
type or print name
]..........................













Form F83 (Rule 19-2 (5) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

ORDER TO REGISTER FOREIGN JUDGMENT



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]









THE HONOURABLE JUSTICE






BEFORE



or




.....[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].....







ASSOCIATE JUDGE








ON THE APPLICATION of ................[
party(ies)
]................ coming on before me on ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........ and on hearing ................[
name of party/lawyer
]................ and ................[
name of party/lawyer
]................;


THIS COURT ORDERS that the judgment dated ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........ of ................[
name of court
]................, by which it was adjudged that ........[
name and address of judgment creditor
]........ recover from ................[
judgment debtor
]................ the sum of $................ for debt [
or as the case may be
] and [ ] costs to be assessed [ ] $................ for
costs, be registered in this court.

By the Court.

..................................................................................

Registrar













Form F84 (Rule 20-3 (12) )


This is the .....[
1st/2nd/3rd/etc.
]..... affidavit


of .............[
name
]............. in this case


and was made on .......[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].........

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

AFFIDAVIT OF ATTAINMENT OF MAJORITY



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



I, ................[
name
]................, of ................[
address
]................, ........[
occupation
]........, SWEAR (OR AFFIRM) THAT:


1 I attained the age of majority on ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........ .

2 I am under no other legal disability.

3 I intend to act in this family law case without a litigation guardian.




SWORN (OR AFFIRMED) BEFORE
)




ME at ........................., British Columbia

)




on ..........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].......... .

)

............................................................................




)




..........................................................

)



A commissioner for taking
)



affidavits for British Columbia
)





....[
print name or affix stamp of commissioner
]....













Form F85 (Rule 20-5 (3) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:

Respondent:

ORDER TO WAIVE FEES



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]




[Complete the form in accordance with the instructions found in the
bracketed italicized wording and then remove all bracketed italicized
wording so that it does not appear in the form when the form is
filed.]









THE HONOURABLE JUSTICE






BEFORE



or




.....[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].....







ASSOCIATE JUDGE








ON THE APPLICATION of ................[
name
]................ [add the following if applicable: coming on before me
on ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........ and on hearing ................[
name of party/lawyer
]................ and ................[
name of party/lawyer
]................];


[

Select whichever one of the 4 following provisions is correct,
complete the selected provision and remove the provisions that have
not been selected so that they do not appear in the form when the form
is filed.

]


THIS COURT ORDERS that no fee is payable by ................[
name of person
]................ to the government under Schedule 1 of Appendix C of
the Supreme Court Family Rules in relation to this family law case [
add the following if applicable:
subject to the following: ................[
set out any conditions on this order
]................] .


THIS COURT ORDERS that no fee is payable by ................[
name of person
]................ to the government under Schedule 1 of Appendix C of
the Supreme Court Family Rules in relation to the following part(s) of
this family law case: ................[
describe part(s)
]................ [
add the following if applicable:
subject to the following: ................[
set out any conditions on this order
]................] .


THIS COURT ORDERS that no fee is payable by ................[
name of person
]................ to the government under Schedule 1 of Appendix C of
the Supreme Court Family Rules in relation to this family law case
during the following period(s): ................[
describe period(s)
]................ [
add the following if applicable:
subject to the following: ................[
set out any conditions on this order
]................] .


THIS COURT ORDERS that no fee is payable by ................[
name of person
]................ to the government under Schedule 1 of Appendix C of
the Supreme Court Family Rules in relation to the following steps in
this family law case: ................[
describe step(s)
]................ [
add the following if applicable:
subject to the following: ................[
set out any conditions on this order
]................] .

By the Court.

..................................................................................

Registrar













Form F86 (Rule 20-5 (3) )


This is the ......[
1st/2nd/3rd/etc.
]...... affidavit

of ..............[
name
].............. in this case

and was made on .........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].........

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:

Respondent:

AFFIDAVIT IN SUPPORT OF ORDER TO WAIVE FEES



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



I, ................[
name
]................, of ................[
address
]................, ................[
occupation
]................, SWEAR (OR AFFIRM) THAT:


1  I am the ................[
party
]................ in this family law case.


2  I make this affidavit in support of my application for an
order that I be declared impoverished with respect to the payment of
fees set out in Schedule 1 of Appendix C of the Supreme Court
Family Rules.

3  I am ................ years old.

4  I have the following dependants: [
List all the dependants in the household.
]

........................................................................................................................................................

........................................................................................................................................................

........................................................................................................................................................



5  The following persons contribute to my household expenses:
[
List all in the household who contribute to expenses.
]

......................................................................................................................................................
.


6  I am [ ] employed [ ] unemployed.


7  Attached as Exhibit A is [

Check whichever one of the following boxes is correct and attach the
required exhibit.

]


[ ] a financial statement that accurately sets out the monthly income,
expenses and assets of my household.


[ ] proof that I receive benefits under the
Employment and Assistance Act
or the
Employment and Assistance for Persons with Disabilities Act
.


8  Attached as Exhibit B is an accurate description of my
educational and employment history.


9  Attached as Exhibit C is an accurate description of my
workplace skills.


10  Attached as Exhibit D is a copy of the document I wish to
file or with which I wish to proceed.




SWORN (OR AFFIRMED) BEFORE
)




ME at ........................., British Columbia

)




on ..........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].......... .

)

............................................................................




)




..........................................................

)



A commissioner for taking
)



affidavits for British Columbia
)





....[
print name or affix stamp of commissioner
]....

This is Exhibit A referred to in the affidavit of

........................................, sworn (or affirmed)


before me on ...............[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]..............



.........................................................................


A commissioner for taking affidavits for

British Columbia


FINANCIAL STATEMENT

ESTIMATED NET MONTHLY INCOME

[

Attach proof — i.e. most recent pay stubs or payment advice, etc., if
available.

]





Estimated net monthly income from all sources:




Employment

$....................



Pension

$....................



Dividends

$....................



Interest

$....................



Other

$
....................




TOTAL (Estimated net monthly income)


$
....................





ESTIMATED MONTHLY EXPENSES

[
Attach receipts for the following, if available.
]





Estimated monthly expenses related to housing


$....................




Estimated monthly expenses related to transportation


$....................




Estimated monthly expenses related to household expenses


$....................




Estimated monthly expenses related to medical and dental expenses


$....................




Estimated monthly expenses, not included in above, related to
dependent children


$....................




Estimated monthly debt payments [
specify
]...............................................................


$....................




Estimate of other monthly expenses [
specify
]...............................................................


$
....................




TOTAL (Estimated monthly expenses)


$
....................





ASSETS

[
Specify assets and set out their estimated value.
]





...........................................................................................................................


$....................




...........................................................................................................................


$....................




...........................................................................................................................


$....................




...........................................................................................................................


$....................




...........................................................................................................................


$....................




TOTAL (Estimated asset values)


$
....................




This is Exhibit B referred to in the affidavit of

........................................, sworn (or affirmed)


before me on ...............[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]..............



.........................................................................

A commissioner for taking affidavits for

British Columbia


EDUCATIONAL AND EMPLOYMENT HISTORY

[
Set out details of education and employment history.
]





1  Highest level of education attained and date
completed:




.................................................................................................................................................................




.................................................................................................................................................................




.................................................................................................................................................................



2  Employment history:


Employer
Dates
Position



.........................................................


..........................................


...........................................................




.........................................................


..........................................


...........................................................




.........................................................


..........................................


...........................................................





This is Exhibit C referred to in the affidavit of

........................................, sworn (or affirmed)


before me on ...............[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]..............



.........................................................................

A commissioner for taking affidavits for

British Columbia


WORKPLACE SKILLS

[
specify
]





.................................................................................................................................................................




.................................................................................................................................................................




.................................................................................................................................................................
















Form F87 (Rule 21-4 (1) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:

Respondent:

NOTICE OF APPOINTMENT OR CHANGE OF LAWYER




[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



TAKE NOTICE that ................[
name of new lawyer
]................ has been appointed to act as the lawyer for
................[
party(ies)
]................ in place of ........[

name of former lawyer, or, if the party was previously acting
personally, omit reference to previous lawyer

]........ .






Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................





Signature of new lawyer





Party's address for service: [

Set out the street address of the address for service. One or both of
a fax number and an e-mail address may be given as additional
addresses for service.

]

Fax number address for service (if any):
E-mail address for service (if any):












Form F88 (Rule 21-4 (1) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:

Respondent:

NOTICE OF INTENTION TO ACT IN PERSON




[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



TAKE NOTICE that I now intend to act personally in this proceeding in
place of ................[name of lawyer]................ .






Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................





Signature of party







...........................[
type or print name
]..........................





My address for service is: [

Set out the street address of the address for service. One or both of
a fax number and an e-mail address may be given as additional
addresses for service.

]

Fax number address for service (if any):
E-mail address for service (if any):












Form F89 (Rule 21-4 (4) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:

Respondent:

NOTICE OF INTENTION TO WITHDRAW AS LAWYER




[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



TAKE NOTICE that ................[
name of lawyer
]................ intends to withdraw as lawyer of record for
................[
name of party
]................ in this family law case.


Notice to the client and to all parties


If you object to the lawyer withdrawing from this family law case you
may, within 7 days after service of this notice, file in the registry
and serve on the lawyer an objection in Form F90.


Notice to the client


If you do not object to the lawyer withdrawing from the family law case,
then you may file in the registry and serve on the other parties a
notice of change of lawyer in Form F87, or a notice of intention to act
in person in Form F88.


If you fail either to object or to file a notice in Form F87 or Form
F88, service of all further documents on you may be made by other
parties to the family law case by mail to your last known address which
is ........[
set out last known address of the client
]........ .


Lawyer's address for service: [

Set out the street address of the address for service. One or both of
a fax number and an e-mail address may be given as additional
addresses for service.

]

Fax number address for service (if any):
E-mail address for service (if any):





Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................





Signature of lawyer intending to withdraw
















Form F90 (Rule 21-4 (5) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:

Respondent:

OBJECTION




[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]




........................[
party(ies)
]........................ object(s) to ................[
name of the lawyer
]................ withdrawing from this family law case.






Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................





Signature of [ ] objecting party

[ ] lawyer for objecting party(ies)







...........................[
type or print name
]..........................
















Form F91 (Rule 21-4 (6) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:

Respondent:

NOTICE OF WITHDRAWAL OF LAWYER




[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]




TAKE NOTICE that ................[
name of lawyer
]................ has ceased to be the lawyer acting for
........................[
party(ies)
]................ and that for purposes of Rule 6-2 (7) of the Supreme
Court Family Rules the last known address of ........................[
party(ies)
]................ is ........[

set out last known address of each party for whom the lawyer has
ceased to act

]........ .






Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................





Signature of lawyer
















Form F92 (Rule 21-7 (5) and (7) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:

Respondent:

WARRANT — CONTEMPT




[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]




To any Peace Officer


WHEREAS this court is of the opinion that ................[
name and address of person or corporation
]................ may be guilty of contempt of court;


YOU are hereby ordered to apprehend ................[

name and address of person or director, officer, or employee of
corporation

]................ and promptly bring him or her before a judge of the
Supreme Court, and, after that, to deal with him or her as directed.






Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................





Signature of a Judge of the Supreme Court

of British Columbia







...........................[
type or print name
]..........................
















Form F93 (Rule 21-7 (9) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:

Respondent:

UNDERTAKING




[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]




I, ................[
name
]................, of ................[
address
]................, understand that I have been apprehended and placed in
custody on an allegation that I have failed to obey the attached order
of the Supreme Court, dated ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........ .


To be released from custody, I give the following undertaking to the
court:


(a)  I promise that I will attend before a judge of the
Supreme Court on ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........ at ........[
time of day
]........ at ................[
location
]................ and will attend at the other times required by the
court to be dealt with according to law,


(b)  I promise that I will strictly comply with the terms of
the attached order and will otherwise keep the peace, and


(c)  I promise that [
add conditions here
].

[OR]

(c)  I promise that I will obey the attached conditions.


I understand that if I breach any of the promises made in this
undertaking I may be arrested and brought before the court to be
imprisoned or otherwise dealt with according to the law.






Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................





Signature of person being released
















Form F94 (Rule 21-7 (10) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:

Respondent:

RELEASE ORDER




[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]




BEFORE   THE HONOURABLE
JUSTICE      ....[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]....


ON THE APPLICATION of ........................[
name
]........................ who has been apprehended on an allegation that
....[
he/she
].... violated an order of the Supreme Court dated ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........;


THIS COURT ORDERS that
........................................................ be released
from custody on ....[
his/her
].... undertaking made and dated ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........, a copy of which undertaking is attached to this order.





By the Court.








..................................................................................




Registrar















Form F94.1 (Rule 21-8 (1) )


[Style of Proceeding]


REQUISITION — LEAVE (VEXATIOUS LITIGANT)



[Rule 22-3 of the Supreme Court Civil Rules applies to all forms.]



Filed by:
.........................[
requesting person(s)
].........................

Required:




1.
Leave to file the attached documents.





The reasons why the Court should grant leave to file these
documents are:






...........................................................................................................................






...........................................................................................................................






...........................................................................................................................




2.

[  ] The requesting person is not under a legal
disability






[  ] The requesting person is under a legal disability,
namely






...........................................................................................................................






...........................................................................................................................




3.

[  ] A copy of the order that requires the requesting
person to seek leave of the court to file the attached documents
is attached to this requisition






Contact information of requesting person:






[
address and phone number of requesting person
]








...........................................................................................................................






...........................................................................................................................








Date: .........................................


..............................................................................

Signature of person requesting leave


........................[
type or print name
]........................









To be completed by the court only:



[ ] Request granted
[ ] Request denied

[ ] Hearing required without notice to intended respondent(s)


[ ] Hearing required on notice to intended respondent(s)
(directions for service if any)




.....................................................


Signature of Judge or Associate Judge




.....................................................


Name of Judge/Associate Judge (please print)




Date: .............................................

















Form F95 (Rule 22-3 (3) )



















Form F96 (Rule 22-4 (6) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:

Respondent:

ELECTRONIC FILING STATEMENT




[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]




[

Check whichever one of the following boxes is correct and complete the
required information.

]


[ ]  I, ...............[
name
]................, am the lawyer acting for the ................[
party(ies)
]................ ................[
name(s) of party(ies)
]................ .


[ ]  I, ................[
name
]................, am the ................[
party
]................ and I am not represented by a lawyer.

I advise as follows:

1 The................
[type and identifying description of document]
................ is being submitted for filing electronically
[add the following if applicable]
on behalf of the ................
[party(ies)]
................, ................
[name(s) of party(ies)]
.................


2 The original paper version of the document being submitted for filing
electronically appears to bear an original signature of the person
identified as the signatory and I have no reason to believe that the
signature placed on the document is not the signature of the identified
signatory.


3 The version of the document that is being submitted for filing
electronically appears to be a true copy of the original paper version
of the document and I have no reason to believe that it is not a true
copy of the original paper version.





Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................





Signature of

[ ] party [ ] lawyer for party(ies)







...........................[
type or print name
]..........................

























Form F97 (Rule 22-5 (17) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:

Respondent:

DECLARATION




[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



Re Application for Payment out of Infant's Funds

I, ................[
current name in full
]................, of ................[
address
]................, DO SOLEMNLY DECLARE:




1

that I am the person for whom funds are held in court and I am the
person named in the order of ................................ made
on ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........



2

that I attained the full age of 19 years on ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........ and submitted with this declaration is a copy of my
birth certificate [
or
] my birth certificate for examination by the registry



3

that I am entitled to payment of the funds




[

If the applicant's name has changed since the date of the order
referred to in paragraph 1 of this declaration, check the
following and provide the required proof.

]



4

[ ]  that my name has been changed from that shown
on the original court order. Proof is attached





I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing it to be true,
and knowing that it is of the same force and effect as if made under
oath and by virtue of the
Canada Evidence Act
.




DECLARED BEFORE ME at

)




...................................., British Columbia


)




on ..............[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].............. .


)

........................................................................





)




......................................................................................


)



A commissioner for taking

)



affidavits for British Columbia

)




.....[
print name or affix stamp of commissioner
].....





If cheque is to be mailed to other than above address, state here:
..........................................................................

Authorization for Payment Out

[
to be completed by the registry
]


Original name [
if changed
]: ...................................................................


Registry: .........................................................
Proceeding No.: ...............................................


Date paid into court: ......................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........................ Treasury No.:
..............................................


Amount (including accrued interest):
$..................................................






Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................





Registrar
















Form F98 (Rule 22-7 (8.1) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:


NOTICE OF APPEAL FROM ASSOCIATE JUDGE, REGISTRAR OR SPECIAL REFEREE




[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]




WHEREAS on ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........ ........[
name of associate judge, registrar or special referee
]........ made the following [ ] decision [ ] order:
........................[
state concisely the decision or order
]........................;


TAKE NOTICE that ........[
party(ies)
]........ appeal(s) from that [ ] decision [ ] order on the
following grounds: ..........[
set out concisely the grounds of appeal
]..........;


This appeal will be heard at ........[
time of day
]........ on ........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]........ at the courthouse at ................................ by the
presiding judge.


The appellant(s) estimate(s) that the hearing of the appeal will take
...........[
time estimate
]........... .





Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................



...............................................................................





Signature of





[ ] appellant [ ] lawyer for appellant(s)






........................[
type or print name
]........................
















Form F98.1 (Rule 22-7 (8.2) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Appellant:
Respondent:

APPELLANT'S STATEMENT OF ARGUMENT



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



[Not to exceed 10 pages]


Part 1: STATEMENT OF FACTS

The facts of this case are as follows:


[

Using numbered paragraphs, set out a concise statement of the material
facts giving rise to the appellant's statement of argument.

]

1
2

Part 2: ISSUES ON APPEAL


The appellant agrees with the order appealed from except as follows:


[

Using paragraphs numbered sequentially from Part 1 above, set out a
concise statement of the legal bases from the decision or order that
give rise to the appellant's appeal.

]

3
4

Part 3: STANDARD OF REVIEW


[

Using paragraphs numbered sequentially from Part 2 above, this part
must set out the standard of review that the appellant says governs
the appeal.

]

5

Part 4: ARGUMENT

The decision or order appealed from is opposed because:


[

Using paragraphs numbered sequentially from Part 3 above, set out a
concise statement of the appellant's argument in opposition to the
decision or order.

]

6
7

Part 5: ORDER SOUGHT


[
This part must set out the order sought by the appellant.
]





Date: ................[
date
].................


..............................................................................

Signature of

[ ] filing party [ ] lawyer for filing party(ies)


........................[
type or print name
]........................
















Form F98.2 (Rule 22-7 (8.4) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Appellant:
Respondent:

RESPONDENT'S STATEMENT OF ARGUMENT



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



[Not to exceed 10 pages]


Part 1: STATEMENT OF FACTS

The respondent's position on the appellant's statement of facts is as
follows:


[

Using numbered paragraphs, set out a concise statement of the opposed
material facts in the appellant's statement of argument and a concise
statement of any other relevant facts to be considered.

]

1
2

Part 2: ISSUES ON APPEAL

The respondent's position on the appellant's statement of issues on
appeal is as follows:


[

Using paragraphs numbered sequentially from Part 1 above, set out a
concise statement of the opposed legal bases in the decision or order.

]

3
4

Part 3: STANDARD OF REVIEW


[

Using paragraphs numbered sequentially from Part 2 above, this part
must set out the standard of review that the respondent says governs
the appeal.

]

5

Part 4: ARGUMENT

The appellant's argument is opposed because:

[

Using paragraphs numbered sequentially from Part 3 above, set out a
concise statement of the respondent's argument in opposition to the
decision or order sought by the appellant.

]

6
7

Part 5: ORDER SOUGHT


[
This part must set out the order sought by the respondent.
]





Date: ................[
date
].................


..............................................................................

Signature of

[ ] filing party [ ] lawyer for filing party(ies)


........................[type or print
name]........................
















Form F99 (Rule 23-1 (11) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

DEMAND



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]




To: ........................[
party
]........................


YOU ARE HEREBY REQUIRED to amend the ........[

specify document to be amended — e.g. notice of family claim, response
to family claim, etc.

]........ in accordance with Rule 23-1 (11) of the Supreme Court Family
Rules.






Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


.................................................................................





Signature of [ ] party making demand

[ ] lawyer for party(ies) making demand







...........................[
type or print name
]..........................





Rule 23-1 (11) of the Supreme Court Family Rules states:


Demand for amendment




(11)

Subject to subrule (14) of this rule, a party to a family law case
referred to in this rule may, by demand in Form F99, demand that a
document that is deemed under this rule to be a notice of family
claim, response to family claim, counterclaim, response to
counterclaim, petition or response to petition be amended by the
party who filed it to make it accord with these Supreme Court
Family Rules.
















Form F100 (Appendix C, Schedule 1, Section 2 (2) )


CERTIFICATE OF MEDIATION



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



I, .................[
name of mediator
].................., certify that I am a qualified mediator within the
meaning of Schedule 1 of Appendix C of the Supreme Court Family Rules
and that


[ ] I conducted a mediation session in which the following persons
participated: .............................[

if a participant in the mediation attended in a representative
capacity, indicate that and identify the person(s) on whose behalf the
representative participated

]........................... and


[ ] the parties to the mediation were unable to resolve all of the
issues at the mediation session and I terminated the mediation.

[OR]

[ ] the parties to the mediation were able to resolve all of the issues
at the mediation session and are now seeking an order from the court.

[OR]

[ ] I determined that mediation was not appropriate between
........................... and ........................... and
therefore did not conduct a mediation session.





Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


..................................................................................





Signature of mediator







................................[

type or print name, address

and phone number of mediator

]...............................
















Form F101 (Rule 15-2.1 (1) )


This is the .....[
1st/2nd/3rd/etc.
]..... affidavit

of .............[
name
]............. in this case

and was made on .......[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].........

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:

AFFIDAVIT



[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



I, ................[
name
]................, of ................[
address
]................, ........[
occupation
]........, SWEAR (OR AFFIRM) THAT:


1 I am applying under the
Family Law Act
to become a guardian of the following child(ren):




Full name of child
Birth date of child

Name(s) of current

guardian(s) of child


Name(s) of parent(s) who

is/are not current

guardian(s) of child

















2 My date of birth is .............[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]................... .


3 The nature and length of my relationship with the child(ren) referred
to in section 1 of this affidavit is as follows:




Name of child

Nature of relationship [

specify if parent,

step-parent, grandparent, aunt, uncle, family friend, etc.

]

Length of relationship














4 The current living arrangements applicable to the child(ren) referred
to in section 1 of this affidavit are as follows:




Name of child
Current living arrangements












5 I plan to care for the child(ren) referred to in section 1 of this
affidavit as follows: .......[

set out detailed plans for how the child(ren) is/are to be cared for

]....................................... .


[

Select whichever one of the 2 immediately following section 6's is
correct, provide any required information and remove the section 6
that has not been selected so that it does not appear in the form when
the form is filed.

]


6 I am not aware of any incidents of family violence, as that term is
defined in section 1 of the
Family Law Act
, that affect the child(ren) referred to in section 1 of this affidavit.


6 I am aware of the following incidents of family violence, as that term
is defined in section 1 of the
Family Law Act
, that affect the child(ren) referred to in section 1 of this affidavit:
...........................

[describe the incidents of family violence of which you are aware]

......................... .


[

Select whichever one of the 2 immediately following section 7's is
correct, provide any required information and remove the section 7
that has not been selected so that it does not appear in the form when
the form is filed.

]


7 I am not a parent, step-parent or guardian of any children except that
child/those children referred to in section 1 of this affidavit.


7 I am the parent, step-parent or guardian of the following child(ren)
who is/are not referred to in section 1 of this affidavit:




Full name of child
Birth date of child

Nature of relationship to child [

specify whether parent,

step-parent or guardian

]















[

Select whichever one of the 2 immediately following section 8's is
correct, provide any required information and remove the section 8
that has not been selected so that it does not appear in the form when
the form is filed.

]


8 I have not been involved in court proceedings in British Columbia
under the
Child, Family and Community Service Act
, the
Family Relations Act
, the
Family Law Act
or the
Divorce Act
(Canada) concerning children under my care, or in any other court
proceedings under comparable legislation in any other jurisdiction
concerning children under my care.


8 I have been involved in the following court proceedings in British
Columbia under the
Child, Family and Community Service Act
, the
Family Relations Act
, the
Family Law Act
or the
Divorce Act
(Canada) concerning children under my care, and in the following court
proceedings under comparable legislation in any other jurisdiction
concerning children under my care:




Item

Names of parties to the proceeding


Name and location of court in which

the proceeding was conducted


Date of any orders

concerning children under

my care made in the proceeding



1





2







The orders referred to in the table above are attached as Exhibits to
this affidavit as follows:


(a) the order dated ......[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]...... referred to in ....[
Item 1, 2, etc.
].... above is attached as Exhibit ....[
A, B, etc.
].... to this affidavit.


(b) the order dated ......[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]...... referred to in ....[
Item 1, 2, etc.
].... above is attached as Exhibit ....[
A, B, etc.
].... to this affidavit.


9 Attached to this affidavit and marked as Exhibit ....[
A, B, etc.
].... is a copy of a British Columbia Ministry of Children and Family
Development records check dated .......[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]....... .


[

Note that under Rule 15-2.1, this records check must be dated within
60 days of the date of the hearing or, if there is to be no hearing,
within 60 days of the date on which this affidavit is filed.

]


10 Attached to this affidavit and marked as Exhibit ....[
A, B etc.
].... is a copy of a Protection Order Registry protection order records
check dated ....[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].... . [

Note that under Rule 15-2.1, this records check must be dated within
60 days of the date of the hearing or, if there is to be no hearing,
within 60 days of the date on which this affidavit is filed.

]


11 Attached to this affidavit and marked as Exhibit ....[
A, B etc.
].... is a copy of a criminal records check dated ....[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].... obtained from the .......[

name and location of police force or department from which the
criminal records check was obtained

]............. . [

Note that under Rule 15-2.1, this records check must be dated within
60 days of the date of the hearing or, if there is to be no hearing,
within 60 days of the date on which this affidavit is filed.

]


[

Select whichever one of the 2 immediately following section 12's is
correct, provide any required information and remove the section 12
that has not been selected so that it does not appear in the form when
the form is filed.

]


12 There are no criminal offences, other than those, if any, specified
in the criminal records check referred to in section 11 of this
affidavit, of which I have been convicted and not pardoned.


12 In addition to the convictions, if any, specified in the criminal
records check referred to in section 11 of this affidavit, I have been
convicted of, and not pardoned for, the following criminal offences:


......................[

provide details of any criminal convictions, not referred to in the
criminal records check, for which you have not received a pardon

].......................... .


[

Select whichever one of the 2 immediately following section 13's is
correct, provide any required information and remove the section 13
that has not been selected so that it does not appear in the form when
the form is filed.

]


13 I am not currently charged with any criminal offences.


13 I am currently charged with criminal offences: The particulars of
each charge are set out below:




Name of alleged offence
Date of alleged offence

Name and location of court in which proceedings

are outstanding






















SWORN (OR AFFIRMED) BEFORE
)




ME at ........................., British Columbia

)




on ..........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].......... .

)

............................................................................




)




..........................................................

)



A commissioner for taking
)



affidavits for British Columbia
)





....[
print name or affix stamp of commissioner
]....













Form F102 (Rule 15-2.2 (1) and (2) )

Court File No.: .........................
Court Registry: ..........................

In the Supreme Court of British Columbia

Claimant:
Respondent:


STATEMENT OF INFORMATION FOR

COROLLARY RELIEF PROCEEDINGS




[Rule 21-1 of the Supreme Court Family Rules applies to all forms.]



Filed by:
.........................[
party(ies)
].........................





1 Civil Protection Orders or Proceedings









[A civil protection order is any order made against a person for
the purposes of protecting another person's safety]






A civil protection order may restrict or restrain a person from
doing certain things, such as


•
contacting another person,


•

being a certain distance from another person or a specific
place,



•
harassing or threatening another person, or


•
living in the family home





YES
NO



Are you aware of any active protection order about you, or any
other people involved in this family law case?

[ ]
[ ]



Are you or others involved in this family law case also involved
in any protection order matter?

[ ]
[ ]



If you answered yes, provide more detail:








2 Child Protection Orders or Proceedings









[Child protection services ("child welfare") protect children
from harm. Child protection services might use a supervision or
custody order to protect children from harm. Child protection
services may exist under a different name in another province.]





YES
NO



Are you or others involved in this family law case also involved
with child protection services?

[ ]
[ ]



If you answered yes, provide more detail:








3 Criminal Proceedings









[Criminal offences are offences under the Criminal Code and
other federal laws, including the Controlled Drugs and
Substances Act (Canada). Criminal offences or matters do not
include bylaw offences, traffic tickets, or consumer issues.]





YES
NO



Are you or others involved in this family law case facing a
criminal charge?

[ ]
[ ]



Are you or others involved in this family law case required to
follow a court order because of a criminal matter?

(Such as release / bail order, probation order, peace
bond / recognizance, parole order, warrant, or required to
follow conditions)

[ ]
[ ]



Are you or others involved in this family law case required to
follow demands because of a criminal matter?

(Such as a promise to appear or a summons)

[ ]
[ ]



Are you or others involved in this family law case in prison?

[ ]
[ ]



If you answered yes, provide more detail:








Date: ................[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].................


....................................................................................

Signature of

[ ] filing party [ ] lawyer for filing party(ies)

..........................[
type or print name
]..........................






Appendix B — Costs





Scale of costs




1

(1)


If a court has made an order for costs, it may determine if the family
law case involves less than ordinary difficulty, ordinary difficulty
or more than ordinary difficulty.




(2)

If the difficulty involved in a family law case has not been
determined under subsection (1), costs must be assessed under
subsection (4) as if the family law case involved ordinary difficulty.




(3)

Unless the court otherwise orders or the parties otherwise agree, if
an offer to settle is made under Rule 11-1, any costs payable on
acceptance of that offer must be assessed as if the family law case
involved ordinary difficulty.




(4)

After the difficulty involved in a family law case has been
determined, a registrar must assess the costs in accordance with the
Schedule.






Apportionment if proceedings tried together




2


If 2 or more family law cases have, by order, been tried at the same
time or tried one after the other and no order has been made as to
apportionment of costs, the registrar may




(a)

assess 2 or more bills as one bill,




(b)

allow an item once or more than once, or




(c)

apportion the costs of an item or of the whole bill between the family
law cases.






Transitional — orders, settlements and costs before 2007




3


Appendix B of the Supreme Court Rules, B.C. Reg. 221/90, as it read on
December 31, 2006, applies to




(a)

orders for costs made in a family law case before January 1, 2007,




(b)

settlements reached in a family law case before January 1, 2007 under
which payment of assessed costs is agreed to,




(c)

costs payable on acceptance of an offer to settle made in a family law
case under Rule 37, if that offer to settle was made before January 1,
2007, and




(d)

all assessments related to those orders, settlements and costs.






Transitional — orders, settlements and costs before 2010




4


Without limiting section 3, Appendix B of the Supreme Court Rules,
B.C. Reg. 221/90, as it read on June 30, 2010, applies to




(a)

orders for costs made in a family law case after December 31, 2006 and
before July 1, 2010,




(b)

settlements reached in a family law case after December 31, 2006 and
before July 1, 2010 under which payment of assessed costs is agreed
to,




(c)

costs payable on acceptance of an offer to settle made in a family law
case under Rule 37 or 37B, if that offer to settle was made after
December 31, 2006 and before July 1, 2010, and




(d)

all assessments related to those orders, settlements and costs.




Schedule




Item
Description
Costs ($)



1

Correspondence, conferences, instructions, investigations or
negotiations and preparation, filing and service of notice of
family claim, response to family claim, counterclaim or response
to counterclaim


If the family law case involves

less than ordinary difficulty

ordinary difficulty

more than ordinary difficulty




1 000

3 000

5 000




2

Process for discovery and inspection of documents


If the family law case involves

less than ordinary difficulty

ordinary difficulty

more than ordinary difficulty




750

2 000

5 000




3

Preparation for and attendance at each examination for discovery


1 000 for each day or part of a day of examination for discovery



4

Preparation for and attendance at each contested application


1 000 for each half day of attendance



5

Preparation for and attendance at each judicial case conference or
settlement conference


1 000 for each half day of attendance



6

Preparation for and attendance at each uncontested application or
trial management conference


500



7

Preparation for and attendance at trial of family law case or of
an issue in a family law case


2 000 per day for each day or part of a day of trial up to 5 days,
and 3 000 for each additional day or part of a day of trial



8

Preparation for and attendance at each examination in aid of
execution and subpoena to debtor


250



9

All process not otherwise provided for relating to execution on or
enforcement of an order


250






Appendix C



Schedule 1


[am. B.C. Regs. 119/2010, Sch. B, ss. 46 to 48; 95/2011, Sch. B, ss. 22
and 23; 27/2013, Sch. 2, s. 16; 65/2013, Sch. B, s. 8; 68/2013; 90/2014,
Sch. 2, s. 4; 121/2014, s. 15; 99/2018, Sch. 2, s. 19; 176/2023, Sch. 2,
ss. 32 and 33.]


Fees Payable to the Crown


(Unless otherwise provided by statute)





Definitions




1


In this Schedule:


"Item"
means an Item in the table to this Schedule;



"qualified mediator"

means a mediator who is qualified as a family dispute resolution
professional within the meaning of section 4 (2) of the
Family Law Act Regulation, B.C. Reg. 347/2012.






Amount payable




2

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), for any Item, there must be paid to the
government




(a)

the fee shown in the table to this Schedule as being applicable to
that Item, or




(b)

if Part 1 of the table to this Schedule is amended under section 2 (4)
of Schedule 4 of this Appendix C, the fee shown as being applicable to
that Item in the table most recently published under section 2 (3) (b)
of Schedule 4.




(2)

A person filing a notice of family claim or a response to family claim
need not pay the fee applicable to that filing if, at the time of
filing, the person provides to the registry a certificate of mediation
in Form F100 indicating that the mediator is a qualified mediator and,




(a)

if the filing party is a named claimant, that that party or that
party's representative engaged in mediation with one or more of the
named respondents or a representative for one or more of the named
respondents,




(b)

if the filing party is a named respondent, that that party or that
party's representative engaged in mediation with one or more of the
named claimants or a representative for one or more of the named
claimants, or




(c)

that the mediator determined that it was not appropriate for the
parties to engage in mediation and so advised those parties.






Electronic filing fee




3

(1)


In addition to any other fees payable under this Schedule, a further
fee of $7.00 must be paid for transmitting a document package to a
registry through the electronic filing service of Court Services
Online.




(2)

For the purposes of this provision, a
"document package"
is any document or, if a group of documents is transmitted at one time
in relation to the same court file, that group of documents.






Fees Applicable to the Supreme Court



Item
Description

Fee

($)




Commencing proceedings



1

Subject to section 2 (2) of this Schedule, for commencing a family
law case in the Supreme Court that is not an appeal under Rule
22-7 (8) or an application under Rule 20-6 (3)

200


2
For filing a counterclaim
200



Responding to proceedings



3

Subject to section 2 (2) of this Schedule, for filing a response
to family claim or a response to counterclaim

25






Application filings



4

For filing any one of the following:

(a)  a notice of application;

(b)  an appointment for a hearing before a registrar or
a special referee but not including a hearing, inquiry or
reference under the
Court Order Enforcement Act
;

(c)  a requisition for a desk order, including a
requisition filed under Rule 20-6 (3)

80


5

For setting a matter for hearing for which a fee is not payable
under this Schedule

No fee is payable under this item to set a matter for hearing by
notice of hearing of petition, notice of hearing of appeal or
notice of hearing of stated case, or to schedule a trial
management conference or settlement conference

80



Other filings



6

For filing a notice of judicial case conference

80


7
For filing a notice of trial
200


7.1

For filing a written agreement under Rule 2-1, whether or not that
filing starts a family law case

30


7.2

For filing a determination of a parenting coordinator under Rule
2-1.1

30


7.3

For filing an arbitration award under Rule 2-1.2, whether or not
that filing starts a family law case

30






Hearings



8
For resetting a trial or hearing
200


9

For each day spent in whole or in part at a hearing, unless the
attendance on that day is for reasons for decision only, payable
by the party who files the notice of application, appointment or
other document by which the hearing was set, unless the court
orders payment by another party


For the first 3 days: 0

For each of the 4th to 10th days: 500


For each day over 10: 800



10

For each day spent in whole or in part at trial, unless the
attendance on that day is for judgment only, payable by the party
who files the notice of trial, unless the court orders payment by
another party


For the first 3 days: 0

For each of the 4th to 10th days: 500


For each day over 10: 800







Room Rentals



11
For rental of examination for discovery room
100 per day






Execution



12

For filing a caveat, a citation, a garnishing order, a writ of
execution or a subpoena to debtor

80






Documents



13

For taking or swearing an affidavit for use in the court unless

(a)  the person swearing the affidavit does so in the
course of the person's duties as a peace officer or as an agent or
officer of the government, or

(b)  provision is made elsewhere for a fee for that
service


40


14

For a search of a record, other than

(a)  an electronic search conducted from outside the
registry, or

(b)  a search of a record of a proceeding by

(i)  a party to that proceeding,

(ii)  a party's lawyer, or

(iii)  an official reporter who, or a representative of
a transcription firm that, is retained by a party to produce a
transcript of the proceeding


8


15

For returning by mail, fax or electronic mail the results of a
search of a record, the aggregate of the following:

(a) fee for returning the results

(b) cost per page faxed



10

1



16

For accessing, without purchase, from outside the registry,
including, without limitation, viewing, printing or downloading,
any document that is found by or created in response to an
electronic search or request, including, without limitation, an
index of cases produced in response to a search query

6


17

For accessing any document referred to in Item 16 and purchasing
that document

10


18
For copies, per page
1


19

For

(a) a certified copy of a document

(i) for 10 pages or less

(ii) for each additional page over 10 pages, per page

(b) issuing a certificate of judgment

(c) issuing a certificate of pending litigation or other
certificate not otherwise provided for, other than a certificate
in Form F36

(d) a copy, produced by the registry, of a transcript filed within
5 years of the request, per page




40

6

40

40

4



20

For returning by mail or by fax a confirmation of filing or
rejection of a document submitted by fax to a registry

10




Despite anything in this Schedule, if, after consultation with the Chief
Justice, the Crown enters into an agreement with a person under which
the person is authorized to access one or both of registry records and
specified registry services and is exempted from payment of any or all
of the fees provided under Items 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18 for such access,
the person may, on payment of any fee required under the agreement and
on compliance with any other terms and conditions imposed by the
agreement, access, during the term of the agreement, the registry
records and registry services to which the agreement applies without
payment of the fees from which the person is exempted under the
agreement.



Schedule 2


[am. B.C. Regs. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 49; 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 34.]


Fees Payable to the Sheriff




Item

$


1

For service

(a)  receiving, filing, serving on one person and
returning any process together with an affidavit of service or
attempted service

(b)  each additional party served at the same address

(c)  each additional party served not at the same
address



100

20


30



2

For arrest or execution on goods and chattels

(a)  for every arrest, execution or similar writ or
order

(b)  for attending, investigating, inventorying,
cataloguing, taking possession, preparing for sale, per hour for
each sheriff involved

(c)  as commission on the sum realized, or on the sum
settled for, as the case may be, net of disbursements properly
incurred

(i)  if that net sum is $10 000 or less

(ii)  if that net sum is more than $10 000 but is
less than $100 000



(iii)  if that net sum is $100 000 or over



(d) the amount of the commission payable under paragraph (c) must
be reduced by 50% if an auctioneer, broker or other individual
sells the goods and chattels for the sheriff and receives a fee or
commission for doing so




120

75




10%

$1 000 plus 2 1/2% on the amount in excess of $10 000

$3 250 plus 1% on the amount in excess of $100 000



3

For lien and recovery actions

(a)  executing a lien other than a repairer's lien or
for recovering specific property other than land if the execution
or recovery is accomplished in whole or in part

(b)  attending, investigating, inventorying,
cataloguing, taking possession, per hour for each sheriff involved




175



75



4

For sale or possession of land

(a)  for executing an order for sale or possession of
land, in part or in whole

(b)  for attending, investigating, inventorying,
cataloguing, taking possession, preparing for sale, per hour for
each sheriff involved

(c)  as commission on the sum realized, or on the sum
settled for, as the case may be, net of disbursements properly
incurred

(i)  if that net sum is $10 000 or less

(ii)  if that net sum is more than $10 000 but is
less than $100 0000

(iii)  if that net sum is $100 000 or over



150


60




10%

$1 000 plus 2 1/2% on the amount in excess of $10 000

$3 250 plus 1% on the amount in excess of $100 000



5

For arrest of ships

(a)  for every warrant or order to arrest a ship,
including release

(b)  for attending, investigating, inventorying,
cataloguing, taking and maintaining possession, preparing for
sale, per hour for each sheriff involved




175

75



6

For a search made by a sheriff including the certificate of result

10


7

For taking or swearing an affidavit for use in the court unless
the person swearing the affidavit does so in the course of the
person's duties as a peace officer or as an agent or officer of
the government

30


8

In respect of each of the foregoing items except item 1, the
sheriff must be paid 50¢ for each kilometre traveled




9

For each of the foregoing items, all disbursements properly
incurred







Schedule 3

[am. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 35.]
Fees Payable to Witnesses

In all cases in which a witness is required to attend an examination,
hearing or trial, the following daily witness fees and fees for travel,
meals and preparation are payable, and must, unless otherwise ordered,
be tendered in advance by the party requiring the attendance of the
witness:





Daily witness fee




1

(1)


For any witness, other than a party or a present officer, director or
partner of a party to a proceeding, for each day or part of a day, a
daily witness fee of $20.




(2)

A witness who is a party or a present officer, director or partner of
a party to the proceeding is not entitled to a daily witness fee.






Travel




2

(1)


For any witness, if the examination, hearing or trial is held at a
place




(a)

within 200 km by road (including any ferry route within the Provincial
road system) of where the witness resides, 30¢ per km each
way by road between the witness' residence and the place of
examination, hearing or trial; but no travel allowance will be made if
the distance by road between that residence and the place of
examination, hearing or trial is less than 8 km, or




(b)

more than 200 km from where the witness resides, the minimum return
air fare by scheduled airline plus 30¢ per km each way from
the witness' residence to the departure airport and from the arrival
airport to the place of examination, hearing or trial.




(2)

The allowance described in subsection (1) (a) includes ferry fares and
road tolls.






Allowances




3


For any witness, a reasonable allowance for meal expenses made
necessary by the witness' attendance, and if the witness resides
elsewhere than the place of examination, hearing or trial and is
required to remain overnight, a reasonable allowance for overnight
accommodation.






Preparation




4


For any witness other than a party or a present officer, director or
partner of a party to a proceeding, a reasonable sum must be allowed
for the time employed and expenses incurred by the witness in
preparing to give evidence, when that preparation is necessary.




Schedule 4


[am. B.C. Regs. 119/2010, Sch. B, ss. 48 and 50; 95/2011, Sch. B, s. 23;
65/2013, Sch. B, s. 8; 68/2013; 90/2014, Sch. 2, s. 4; 121/2014, s. 15;
105/2019, s. 7; 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 36.]


Fee Calculations





Definitions




1


In this Schedule:


"actual fee"
, in relation to an Item, means the actual fee applicable to that Item
determined under section 2;


"base CPI"
means the number recorded as the "All-items Index" for British
Columbia for April 2010 in the publication prepared for April 2010
under the
Statistics Act
by the director;


"base fee"
, in relation to an Item, means the fee shown in the table to this
Schedule as being applicable to that Item;



"current CPI"

, in relation to any year in which a calculation of actual fees is to
be made under section 2, means the number recorded as the "All-items
Index" for British Columbia for April of that year in the publication
prepared for that year under the
Statistics Act
by the director;


"director"
has the same meaning as in the
Statistics Act
;


"Item"
means an Item in the table to this Schedule.






Calculation of actual fee




2

(1)


Until Part 1 of the table to Schedule 1 is amended under this section,
the actual fee applicable to an Item is the fee shown for that Item in
the table to this Schedule.




(2)

In 2012, and in every second year after that, the actual fee
applicable to an Item must be recalculated as follows:




(a)

a preliminary fee must be determined for the Item in accordance with
the following formula:





preliminary fee = base fee × (current CPI/base CPI);







(b)

the actual fee applicable to the Item is the preliminary fee
determined for that Item under paragraph (a) rounded as follows:




(i)

if the base fee applicable to the Item is less than or equal to $10,
the actual fee applicable to the Item is the preliminary fee for the
Item rounded to the nearest $1;




(ii)

if the base fee applicable to the Item is greater than $10 but less
than $100, the actual fee applicable to the Item is the preliminary
fee for the Item rounded to the nearest $5;




(iii)

if the base fee applicable to the Item is $100 or more, the actual fee
applicable to the Item is the preliminary fee for the Item rounded to
the nearest $10.




(3)

If, as a result of the recalculation referred to in subsection (2),
there is a change to the actual fee applicable to one or more Items,
the minister may notify the Registrar of Regulations of that change
and the Registrar of Regulations may




(a)

amend Part 1 of the table to Schedule 1 to reflect the change of which
notice was given under this subsection, and




(b)

publish in Part 2 of the Gazette the amended table.




(4)

On the date that is 7 days after the date on which an amended table is
published under subsection (3) (b) in Part 2 of the Gazette, Part 1 of
the table to Schedule 1 is amended accordingly.





Item
Description

Fee

($)




Commencing proceedings



1

Subject to section 2 (2) of Schedule 1, for commencing a family
law case in the Supreme Court that is not an appeal under Rule
22-7 (8.1) or an application under Rule 20-6 (3)

200


2
For filing a counterclaim
200



Responding to proceedings



3

Subject to section 2 (2) of Schedule 1, for filing a response to
family claim or a response to counterclaim

25






Application filings



4

For filing any one of the following:

(a)  a notice of application;

(b) an appointment for a hearing before a registrar or a special
referee but not including a hearing, inquiry or reference under
the
Court Order Enforcement Act
;

(c)  a requisition for a desk order, including a
requisition filed under Rule 20-6 (3)

80


5

For setting a matter for hearing for which a fee is not payable
under this Schedule

No fee is payable under this item to set a matter for hearing by
notice of hearing of petition, notice of hearing of appeal or
notice of hearing of stated case

80



Other filings



6

For filing a notice of judicial case conference

80


7
For filing a notice of trial
200


7.1

For filing a written agreement under Rule 2-1, whether or not that
filing starts a family law case

30


7.2

For filing a determination of a parenting coordinator under Rule
2-1.1

30


7.3

For filing an arbitration award under Rule 2-1.2, whether or not
that filing starts a family law case

30






Hearings



8
For resetting a trial or hearing
200


9

For each day spent in whole or in part at a hearing, unless the
attendance on that day is for reasons for decision only, payable
by the party who files the notice of application, appointment or
other document by which the hearing was set, unless the court
orders payment by another party


For the first 3 days: 0

For each of the 4th to 10th days: 500


For each day over 10: 800



10

For each day spent in whole or in part at trial, unless the
attendance on that day is for judgment only, payable by the party
who files the notice of trial, unless the court orders payment by
another party


For the first 3 days: 0

For each of the 4th to 10th days: 500


For each day over 10: 800







Room Rentals



11
For rental of examination for discovery room
100 per day






Execution



12

For filing a caveat, a citation, a garnishing order, a writ of
execution or a subpoena to debtor

80






Documents



13

For taking or swearing an affidavit for use in the court unless

(a) the person swearing the affidavit does so in the course of the
person's duties as a peace officer or as an agent or officer of
the government, or

(b) provision is made elsewhere for a fee for that service


40


14

For a search of a record, other than

(a) an electronic search conducted from outside the registry, or

(b) a search of a record of a proceeding by

(i) a party to that proceeding,

(ii) a party's lawyer, or

(iii) an official reporter who, or a representative of a
transcription firm that, is retained by a party to produce a
transcript of the proceeding


8


15

For returning by mail, fax or electronic mail the results of a
search of a record, the aggregate of the following:

(a) fee for returning the results

(b) cost per page faxed



10

1



16

For accessing, without purchase, from outside the registry,
including, without limitation, viewing, printing or downloading,
any document that is found by or created in response to an
electronic search or request, including, without limitation, an
index of cases produced in response to a search query

6


17

For accessing any document referred to in Item 16 and purchasing
that document

10


18
For copies, per page
1


19

For

(a) a certified copy of a document

(i) for 10 pages or less

(ii) for each additional page over 10 pages, per page

(b) issuing a certificate of judgment

(c) issuing a certificate of pending litigation or other
certificate not otherwise provided for, other than a certificate
in Form F36

(d) a copy, produced by the registry, of a transcript filed within
5 years of the request, per page




40

6

40

40

4



20

For returning by mail or by fax a confirmation of filing or
rejection of a document submitted by fax to a registry

10




Despite anything in this Schedule, if, after consultation with the Chief
Justice, the Crown enters into an agreement with a person under which
the person is authorized to access one or both of registry records and
specified registry services and is exempted from payment of any or all
of the fees provided under Items 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18 for such access,
the person may, on payment of any fee required under the agreement and
on compliance with any other terms and conditions imposed by the
agreement, access, during the term of the agreement, the registry
records and registry services to which the agreement applies without
payment of the fees from which the person is exempted under the
agreement.


[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Court Rules Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 80, s. 1.]



