




Armoured Vehicle and After-Market Compartment Control Act
[SBC 2010] CHAPTER 8


Assented to June 3, 2010






Definitions and interpretation




1


In this Act:



"after-market compartment"

means a compartment in a vehicle, which compartment




(a)

is not part of the manufacturer's design of or equipment for the
vehicle, and




(b)

is incorporated into the equipment or structure of the vehicle after
it has left the factory in which it was manufactured;



"armoured car guard service"

has the same meaning as in the

Security Services Act

;



"armoured vehicle"

means a motor vehicle manufactured or adapted for the purpose of
protecting its occupants from explosions caused by explosive devices
or from projectiles discharged from a firearm, as defined in section 2
of the

Criminal Code

;



"armoured vehicle permit"

means a permit issued under section 5
[armoured vehicle permit]
authorizing a person to operate an armoured vehicle;


"crime"
has the same meaning as in the

Security Services Act

;



"motor vehicle"

has the same meaning as in the

Motor Vehicle Act

;


"operate"
, in relation to a vehicle, includes having care or control of the
vehicle;



"peace officer"

means a person described in paragraph (c) of the definition of "peace
officer" in section 29 of the

Interpretation Act

;


"registrar"
means the Registrar of Security Services appointed under section 49 of
the

Security Services Act

;



"security guard service"

has the same meaning as in the

Security Services Act

;



"security worker licence"

means a security worker licence issued under section 5 of the

Security Services Act

;


"vehicle"
has the same meaning as in the

Motor Vehicle Act

.




Part 1 — Armoured Vehicles





Prohibition from operating armoured vehicle




2

(1)


In this section:



"armoured car guard"

means an individual who performs the work of, or provides any aspect
of the services provided by, an armoured car guard service;



"security guard"

means an individual who performs the work of, or provides any aspect
of the services provided by, a security guard service.




(2)

A person must not operate an armoured vehicle except under the
authority of a valid armoured vehicle permit issued in the person's
name.




(3)

Subsection (2) does not apply to




(a)

a peace officer,




(b)

a person who holds a valid security worker licence, authorizing the
person to work as a security guard, while the person is providing, in
the course of their employment under that licence, security services
that involve operating an armoured vehicle,




(c)

a person who holds a valid security worker licence, authorizing the
person to work as an armoured car guard, while the person is
providing, in the course of their employment under that licence,
security services that involve operating an armoured vehicle, as
defined under the

Security Services Act

, or




(d)

a person who is exempt under the regulations.






Applying for armoured vehicle permit




3

(1)


A person may apply to the registrar for




(a)

a permit authorizing the person to operate an armoured vehicle, or




(b)

the renewal of such a permit.




(2)

An application for an armoured vehicle permit or renewal must




(a)

be made in the form and manner required by the registrar,




(b)

include authorizations for the registrar to carry out the prescribed
checks regarding the applicant or permit holder, and




(c)

be accompanied by the prescribed fees.




(3)

An applicant for an armoured vehicle permit or the renewal of an
armoured vehicle permit must meet all conditions and requirements
imposed by this Act or the regulations.






Refusal of armoured vehicle permit




4

(1)


The registrar may refuse to issue or renew an armoured vehicle permit
if any of the following applies:




(a)

the applicant or permit holder fails in any way to comply with, or
does not meet the requirements of, section 3
[applying for armoured vehicle permit]
;




(b)

the registrar considers that the applicant's or permit holder's
conduct or character makes it undesirable that the applicant or permit
holder be authorized to operate an armoured vehicle;




(c)

the application is for renewal of an armoured vehicle permit and the
registrar is satisfied that the permit holder has contravened a
provision of this Act or the regulations or a term or condition of the
permit holder's armoured vehicle permit;




(d)

the registrar considers that the applicant or permit holder has failed
to demonstrate a prescribed purpose for operating or continuing to
operate an armoured vehicle;




(e)

the registrar considers that it is not in the public interest for the
applicant or permit holder to operate or continue to operate an
armoured vehicle;




(f)

the applicant or permit holder has been convicted of a crime.




(2)

The registrar must hold a hearing before making a decision under
subsection (1).




(3)

The registrar must give the applicant or permit holder written reasons
for a decision under subsection (1).






Armoured vehicle permit




5

(1)


The registrar may issue or renew an armoured vehicle permit for a term
not exceeding the prescribed period.




(2)

The registrar may




(a)

impose any terms and conditions on an armoured vehicle permit that the
registrar considers appropriate, and




(b)

amend or remove those terms and conditions.




(3)

The registrar must give the applicant or permit holder written reasons
for a decision under subsection (2).






Terms and conditions of armoured vehicle permit




6


The following are terms and conditions of every armoured vehicle
permit:




(a)

the permit holder must carry the permit at all times when operating an
armoured vehicle;




(b)

the permit holder, when operating an armoured vehicle, must produce
the armoured vehicle permit on the request of a peace officer;




(c)

the permit holder must report to the registrar, within 14 days of its
occurrence,




(i)

the theft or loss of the permit,




(ii)

a change in the permit holder's employment, if the operation of an
armoured vehicle under the permit is for the purposes of that
employment,




(iii)

a change in circumstances such that the permit holder is no longer
able to demonstrate that the permit holder requires the permit for a
purpose prescribed for the purpose of section 4 (1) (d),




(iv)

a change in the permit holder's residential address, or




(v)

a charge being laid or a conviction entered against the permit holder
for a crime;




(d)

the permit holder must surrender the permit to the registrar on or
before the last day of the term of the armoured vehicle permit;




(e)

the permit holder must




(i)

comply with this Act and the regulations, and




(ii)

comply with the terms and conditions of the permit;




(f)

the permit holder must not allow another person to use the armoured
vehicle permit.




Part 2 — After-Market Compartments





Prohibitions on after-market compartment




7

(1)


A person must not own, operate or use a vehicle that contains an
after-market compartment.




(2)

A person who installs an after-market compartment in a vehicle must
immediately contact the officer in charge of the nearest Provincial or
municipal police office and provide to that officer all of the
following information:




(a)

the name and address of the owner of the vehicle;




(b)

the make, model and year of the vehicle;




(c)

where in the vehicle the compartment has been placed and how the
compartment can be opened.




(3)

Subsection (1) does not apply in respect of a person who owns,
operates or uses a vehicle containing an after-market compartment if
the owner of the vehicle is exempt from subsection (1) under the
regulations.




Part 3 — Enforcement





Armoured vehicle permit cancellation or suspension




8

(1)


The registrar may cancel, or suspend for a period of time, an armoured
vehicle permit for any reason under section 4 (1)
[refusal of armoured vehicle permit]
.




(2)

The registrar must




(a)

hold a hearing before making a decision under subsection (1), and




(b)

give the permit holder written reasons for the decision.




(3)

If under subsection (1) the registrar cancels, or suspends for a
period of time, an armoured vehicle permit, the permit holder,
immediately or within the period specified by the registrar in the
decision or reasons, must surrender the permit to the registrar.






Summary action to protect the public




9

(1)


If the registrar considers it necessary to protect the public, the
registrar, immediately and without notice, may cancel, or suspend for
a period of time, an armoured vehicle permit.




(2)

As soon as practicable after making a decision under subsection (1),
the registrar must give the permit holder written notice of and
written reasons for the decision.




(3)

An armoured vehicle permit holder who receives a notice under
subsection (2)




(a)

must immediately surrender the armoured vehicle permit to the
registrar or, if the notice is delivered by a peace officer or by an
inspector, as defined in the

Security Services Act

, to the peace officer or inspector, as applicable,




(b)

must cease operating the armoured vehicle, and




(c)

may file a written reply with the registrar within 15 days after the
date of the notice.




(4)

Section 29 (4) to (7) of the

Security Services Act

applies to a suspension or cancellation under this section and, for
that purpose, a reference in that section




(a)

to a licence is deemed to include an armoured vehicle permit referred
to in subsection (1) of this section, and




(b)

to subsection (3) is deemed to be a reference to subsection (3) of
this section.






Seizure of armoured vehicle or vehicle containing after-market
compartment without a warrant




10

(1)


If a peace officer has reasonable grounds for believing that a person
is operating an armoured vehicle and, on request of the peace officer,
the person




(a)

refuses or is unable to produce a valid armoured vehicle permit, and




(b)

is unable to satisfy the peace officer that the person is exempt under
section 2 (3) from the requirement to hold an armoured vehicle permit,


the peace officer, without a warrant, may seize the motor vehicle and
take it to a secure place for the purpose of preserving the motor
vehicle until a search warrant is obtained.




(2)

If




(a)

a peace officer has reasonable grounds for believing that a person
owns or is operating or using a vehicle that contains an after-market
compartment, and




(b)

on request of the peace officer, the person is unable to satisfy the
peace officer that the person is exempt under the regulations from the
prohibition in section 7 (1),


the peace officer, without a warrant, may seize the vehicle and take
it to a secure place for the purpose of preserving the vehicle until a
search warrant is obtained.




(3)

Sections 24 to 24.2 of the

Offence Act

apply in respect of a vehicle seized under subsection (1) or (2) of
this section.




(4)

If, under section 24 (2) (a) of the

Offence Act

, a justice orders that a vehicle referred to in subsection (3) of
this section be detained, despite section 24 (3) of the

Offence Act

, the vehicle may be detained for up to one year before an order under
section 24 (5) of that Act, authorizing its continued detention, is
required.






Peace officer powers




11

(1)


If a vehicle contains an after-market compartment, and the owner is
not exempt under the regulations from the prohibition in section 7
(1), a peace officer may order the owner, operator or user of the
vehicle to cease operating or using, as applicable, the vehicle until
the after-market compartment has been removed.




(2)

A peace officer who makes an order under subsection (1) may also order
the owner, operator or user to demonstrate to the person specified in
the order, at the location and within the period, or at the time,
specified in the order that the after-market compartment has been
removed.




(3)

During the period, or until the date, specified in an order under
subsection (2), if the vehicle is not operated or used, section 7 (1)
does not apply to the owner of the vehicle in respect of that person's
ownership of the vehicle.




(4)

If a motor vehicle is an armoured vehicle and the operator does not
hold an armoured vehicle permit, and is not exempt from that
requirement, a peace officer may order the operator to cease operating
the motor vehicle.






Offences




12

(1)


A person who contravenes any of the following commits an offence:




(a)

section 2 (2)
[prohibition from operating armoured vehicle]
;




(b)

a term or condition of an armoured vehicle permit, including, without
limiting this, terms and conditions described in section 6 (a) to (f)
[terms and conditions of armoured vehicle permit]
and terms and conditions imposed on the armoured vehicle permit by the
registrar;




(c)

section 7 (1) or (2)
[prohibition on after-market compartment]
;




(d)

section 8 (3)
[armoured vehicle permit cancellation or suspension]
;




(e)

section 9 (3) (a) or (b)
[summary action to protect the public]
;




(f)

subsection (2), (4) (a) or (b), (5) or (6) (a) or (b) of this section.




(2)

When applying for an armoured vehicle permit or when requested,
ordered or directed by the registrar to provide information, a person
must not provide false or misleading information.




(3)

A person does not commit an offence under subsection (2) if, at the
time the information was provided, the person did not know that the
information was false or misleading and, with the exercise of
reasonable diligence, could not have known that the information was
false or misleading.




(4)

A person must not




(a)

obstruct, impede or refuse to admit a peace officer who is exercising
powers or performing duties under this Act or under a warrant issued
for the purposes of enforcing this Act, or




(b)

obstruct or impede an inspector referred to in section 9 (3).




(5)

A person must not use an armoured vehicle permit that has been issued
to another person.




(6)

A person must not produce to any person as a valid armoured vehicle
permit an armoured vehicle permit




(a)

that has been cancelled under section 9 (1)
[summary action to protect the public]
, or




(b)

during a period when the armoured vehicle permit is suspended under
section 9 (1).




(7)

If a business entity, as defined in the

Security Services Act

, commits an offence under this Act, an employee, officer, director,
partner or agent of the business entity who authorizes, permits or
acquiesces in the commission of the offence also commits an offence,
whether or not the business entity is prosecuted for the offence.




(8)

In a prosecution for an offence under this Act, it is sufficient proof
of the offence to establish that it was committed by an employee,
officer, director, partner or agent of the defendant, whether or not
the employee, officer, director, partner or agent is identified or has
been prosecuted for the offence.




(9)

Section 5 of the

Offence Act

does not apply for the purposes of this Act.






Time limit for commencing a prosecution




13

(1)


The time limit for laying an information to commence a prosecution for
an offence under this Act is




(a)

one year after the date on which the act or omission that is alleged
to constitute the offence occurred, or




(b)

if the registrar issues a certificate described in subsection (2), one
year after the date on which the registrar learned of the act or
omission referred to in paragraph (a).




(2)

A certificate purporting to have been issued by the registrar
certifying the date referred to in subsection (1) (b) is proof of that
date.






Offence penalties




14

(1)


An individual who commits an offence under section 12
[offences]
is liable on conviction to a fine of not more than $10 000 or
imprisonment for not longer than 6 months, or both.




(2)

A business entity that commits an offence under section 12 is liable
on conviction to a fine of not more than $100 000.




Part 4 — General





Certificate evidence




15


Section 47 of the

Security Services Act

applies in relation to this Act and, for that purpose, a reference in
that section to a "licence" or a "document" is deemed to include an
armoured vehicle permit and a document in the registrar's records
respecting an armoured vehicle permit.






Sending of notices and requests




16


Section 48 of the

Security Services Act

applies to a notice, request or written reasons under this Act and,
for that purpose, a notice, request or written reasons under this Act
are deemed to be a notice, request or written reasons referred to in
Part 4 of the

Security Services Act

.






Reconsideration




17

(1)


An applicant or permit holder may request the registrar to reconsider
a decision under section 4 (1)
[refusal of armoured vehicle permit]
, 5 (2)
[armoured vehicle permit]
or 8 (1)
[armoured vehicle permit cancellation or suspension]
.




(2)

The time limits in section 51 (1) (a) and (b), and section 51 (2) and
(3), of the

Security Services Act

apply for the purposes of a request under subsection (1) of this
section.






Investigations




18


Section 50 of the

Security Services Act

applies in relation to armoured vehicle permits and, for that purpose,
a reference in that section to a "licence" is deemed to include an
armoured vehicle permit.






Hearings




19


The registrar may hold a hearing under this Act in writing,
electronically or orally or by any combination of written, electronic
or oral hearings.






Regulations




20

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
section 41 of the

Interpretation Act

.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations as follows:




(a)

respecting the forms of applications and permits;




(b)

prescribing checks regarding applicants for the purposes of section 3
[applying for armoured vehicle permit]
;




(c)

prescribing application and permit fees for the purpose of section 3,
which fees may be different depending on the duration of the armoured
vehicle permit applied for or issued;




(d)

prescribing purposes for the purpose of section 4 (1) (d)
[refusal of armoured vehicle permit]
;




(e)

prescribing a maximum period for the purposes of section 5 (1)
[armoured vehicle permit]
;




(f)

prescribing the information that an applicant for an armoured vehicle
permit is required to provide;




(g)

exempting, on any conditions, for any periods of time and in any
circumstances that are considered advisable, a class of persons from
all or any part of this Act or the regulations;




(h)

respecting proof of an exemption referred to in section 7 (3),
including without limitation, prescribing the documents that
constitute proof of a specific exemption;




(i)

establishing an offence for the contravention of a regulation and
prescribing a penalty for that offence up to the maximum penalties set
out in section 14
[offence penalties]
.






Transition — operation of armoured vehicle




21


Section 2 (2)
[prohibition from operating armoured vehicle]
does not apply for a period of 90 days after the date section 2 comes
into force to a person who operates an armoured vehicle for a purpose
prescribed under section 20 (2) (d)
[regulations]
.




Consequential and Related Amendments









[Note: See Table of Legislative Changes for the status of sections
22 to 26.]









Section(s)



Affected Act






22-26




Body Armour Control Act









Commencement




27


This Act comes into force by regulation of the Lieutenant Governor in
Council.




