




Assessment Authority Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 21






Definitions




1


In this Act:


"assessment"
has the same meaning as in the

Assessment Act

;



"assessment roll"

includes a supplementary assessment roll;


"authority"
means the British Columbia Assessment Authority continued under this
Act;



"board of directors"

means the board of directors of the authority;



"chief executive officer"

means the chief executive officer of the authority appointed under
section 13;


"director"
means a member of the board of directors;


"minister"
includes a person designated in writing by the minister;


"property"
includes land and improvements as defined in the

Assessment Act

;



"taxing treaty first nation"

has the same meaning as in the

Treaty First Nation Taxation Act

;



"Union of British Columbia Municipalities"

means the corporation incorporated by Act under that name.






Conflict with other Acts




2

(1)


If there is a conflict between this Act and any other Act, this Act
prevails.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply to a conflict between this Act and any
of the following Acts:




(a)

the

Financial Administration Act

;




(b)

the

Public Sector Employers Act

;




(c)

an Act prescribed by the Lieutenant Governor in Council.






Corporation continued




3

(1)


The corporation known as the "British Columbia Assessment Authority"
is continued consisting of the board of directors appointed under
section 11.




(2)

[Repealed 2007-13-35.]




(3)

The authority may pay to a director




(a)

an allowance set by the minister for reasonable travelling and
incidental expenses necessarily incurred by the director in the
discharge of duties as a director, and




(b)

remuneration at rates set by the minister.




(4)

A majority of the directors holding office constitutes a quorum at
meetings of the board of directors.




(5)

The

Business Corporations Act

does not apply to the authority, but the Lieutenant Governor in
Council may direct that certain provisions of that Act apply to the
authority.






Head office




4

(1)


The head office of the authority must be in the Capital Regional
District.




(2)

The authority may establish and maintain offices at other places in
British Columbia it considers necessary or advisable.






Power to acquire property




5


The authority may, for the purposes of this Act,




(a)

acquire, hold and dispose of property, and




(b)

with the prior approval of the minister, borrow money on the credit of
the authority and give security.






Powers and duties of the board of directors




5.1

(1)


The board of directors must manage the affairs of the authority or
supervise the management of those affairs.




(2)

The board of directors may do the following:




(a)

by resolution or bylaw, exercise the powers and perform the duties of
the authority under this Act or any other Act on behalf of the
authority;




(b)

by resolution or bylaw, delegate to another person the exercise of any
power conferred or the performance of any duty imposed on the board of
directors or the authority under this Act or any other Act, other than




(i)

the power to delegate under this paragraph, and




(ii)

the power to make regulations or orders under this Act or any other
Act;




(c)

pass resolutions and make bylaws it considers necessary or advisable
for the management and conduct of the affairs of the authority, the
exercise of the powers of the board of directors and the performance
of the duties of the board of directors.




(3)

The board of directors must submit to the minister reports in the
form, with the information and at the time required by the minister.






Meetings of the board of directors




6

(1)


The board of directors must meet in accordance with the bylaws or, in
the absence of a bylaw, at times and places the chair determines.




(2)

A majority of the board of directors may, at any time, by notice in
writing directed to the chair, require the chair to call a meeting.






Majority vote




7


Bylaws and resolutions of the authority must be passed by a majority
of the votes of the directors who are at a meeting of the board of
directors and entitled to vote.






Vacancy on the board of directors




8


A vacancy on the board of directors does not affect the power and
jurisdiction of the authority under this Act or impair the power of
the remaining directors to act on behalf of the authority.






Purpose of the authority




9


The purpose of the authority is to establish and maintain assessments
that are uniform in the whole of British Columbia in accordance with
the

Assessment Act

.






Powers and duties of the authority




10


For its purposes the authority has the following powers and duties:




(a)

to develop and administer a complete system of property assessment;




(a.1)

to give directions respecting the preparation and completion of
assessment rolls;




(b)

to divide British Columbia into the number of assessment areas it
considers advisable;




(c)

to develop and maintain programs for the education, training and
technical or professional development of assessors, appraisers and
other persons qualified in property assessment matters;




(d)

to prescribe and maintain standards of education, training and
technical or professional competence for assessors, appraisers and
other persons employed or engaged in property assessment, and to
require compliance with these standards;




(e)

if considered advisable, to authorize the officers or employees to
perform technical or professional services, other than those required
under the

Assessment Act

, and to set and charge fees for those services;




(f)

to ensure that the general public is adequately informed respecting
procedures relating to property assessment in British Columbia;




(g)

to exercise and carry out other powers and duties that may be required
to carry out its purpose, or as may be required under any other Act or
order of the Lieutenant Governor in Council.






Appointment of directors and chair




11

(1)


The board of directors consists of up to 12 directors.




(2)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may appoint an individual as a
director for a term of up to 3 years.




(3)

An individual may be reappointed as a director under subsection (2).




(4)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council must appoint a director as chair of
the board of directors.




(5)

In appointing directors the Lieutenant Governor in Council should take
into account regional interests.






Repealed




12


[Repealed 2007-13-43.]






Staff




13

(1)


The board of directors may




(a)

appoint assessors, appraisers, officers and other employees of the
authority that are necessary to carry on the business and operations
of the authority,




(b)

define their duties, and




(c)

set their remuneration.




(2)

The board of directors must appoint under subsection (1) an individual
as the chief executive officer of the authority.




(2.1)

The chief executive officer is responsible for general supervision,
and direction of the operations, of the authority and its staff and
must perform those duties that are specified in the resolutions of the
board of directors.




(2.2)

The chief executive officer may exercise all of the powers of an
assessor.




(3)

Out of its money, the authority must pay the remuneration required
under this section, and all other costs and expenses incurred in the
administration of this Act.




(4)

The

Public Service Act

and the

Public Service Labour Relations Act

do not apply to a person appointed under this section.






Application of
Labour Relations Code




14


The

Labour Relations Code

applies to employees under this Act.






Repealed




15


[Repealed 1999-44-31.]






Accounts and audits




16

(1)


The minister charged with the administration of the

Financial Administration Act

may direct the Comptroller General to examine and report to the
Treasury Board on any or all of the financial and accounting
operations of the authority.




(2)

The fiscal year of the authority begins on April 1 in each year
and ends on March 31 in the following year.




(3)

Unless the Auditor General is appointed in accordance with the

Auditor General Act

as the auditor of the authority, the authority must appoint an auditor
to audit the accounts of the authority at least once each year.




(4)

The authority must establish and maintain an accounting system
satisfactory to the minister charged with the administration of the

Financial Administration Act

and must, whenever required by that minister, render detailed accounts
of its revenues and expenditures for the period or to the date that
minister designates.




(5)

The minister charged with the administration of this Act or a person
designated in writing by the minister may inspect, without notice, all
books or records of account, documents and other financial records of
the authority.






Finances




17

(1)


The authority must establish and maintain an operating fund, being the
total amount required to meet the annual operating and capital
expenses of the authority.




(1.1)

The authority must determine the rates that must be applied to the net
taxable value of all land and improvements in British Columbia,
excluding property that is taxable for school purposes only by special
Act, in order to maintain the operating fund under this Act.




(2)

With the prior approval of the Lieutenant Governor in Council, the
authority must, by bylaw,




(a)

levy a tax on the net taxable value of all land and improvements,
excluding property excluded under subsection (1.1), the treaty lands
referred to in paragraph (b) of this subsection and Nisg̱a'a
Lands,




(b)

specify the rates to be applied to the net taxable value of all land
and improvements in the treaty lands of each taxing treaty first
nation in order to calculate the amount of a requisition under section
20 (4.1), and




(c)

specify the rates to be applied to the net taxable value of all land
and improvements in Nisg̱a'a Lands in order to calculate the amount of
a requisition under section 20 (4.3).




(3)

In determining rates for the purposes of subsection (1.1) the
authority must take into account the amount of the annual operating
grant appropriated for the purposes of the authority by the
Legislature.




(4)

For the purposes of subsections (1.1) and (2), the definition of
"land" and the definition of "improvements" in the

Assessment Act

apply.




(5)

Each year before March 31, the minister may submit a requisition to
the authority for the amount required to cover the anticipated costs
to the government, for its next fiscal year, of complaints and appeals
under the

Assessment Act

to the property assessment review panels and the property assessment
appeal board.




(6)

Subject to subsection (7), the authority must pay the amount
requisitioned under subsection (5) to the government in quarterly
instalments, with the first instalment due on June 30 in the year for
which the requisition is made.




(7)

The minister may require the authority to adjust the final instalment
for a fiscal year such that the total amounts paid for the fiscal year
cover the actual costs of the complaints and appeals referred to in
subsection (5) for that fiscal year.




(8)

An amount requisitioned under subsection (5), as adjusted under
subsection (7), is deemed to be part of the annual operating and
capital expenses of the authority for the purposes of this section.






Variable tax rate system




18

(1)


In this section:



"property class"

means a class of property prescribed by the Lieutenant Governor in
Council under section 19 of the

Assessment Act

;



"variable tax rate system"

means a system under which individual tax rates are determined and
imposed for each property class.




(2)

Where the authority sets rates under section 17, it must adopt a
variable tax rate system.




(3)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations in respect of
the variable tax rate system as follows:




(a)

prescribing limits on tax rates;




(b)

prescribing relationships between tax rates;




(c)

prescribing formulas for calculating the limits or relationships
referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b).






Application of
School Act
exemptions




19


Except in relation to the treaty lands of a taxing treaty first nation
and Nisg̱a'a Lands, sections 130, 131, 131.01 and 132 to 134 of the

School Act

apply for assessment and taxation purposes under section 17 (2) (a)
and (3) of this Act.






Exemptions for treaty lands and Nisg̱a'a Lands




19.1

(1)


Subject to this section, property that is in the treaty lands of a
taxing treaty first nation and exempt




(a)

under the laws of the treaty first nation from property taxation
imposed by the treaty first nation, or




(b)

under a tax treatment agreement from property taxation imposed under
this Act


must be treated as if it were exempt for the purposes of calculating
the rates under section 17 (1.1) and the amount of a requisition
referred to in section 17 (2) (b).




(1.1)

Subject to this section, property that is in Nisg̱a'a Lands and exempt




(a)

under Nisg̱a'a laws from property taxation imposed by the Nisg̱a'a
Lisims Government, or




(b)

under the Taxation Agreement, as defined in section 6.1 of the

Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement Act

, from property taxation imposed under this Act


must be treated as if it were exempt for the purposes of calculating
the rates under section 17 (1.1) of this Act and the amount of a
requisition referred to in section 17 (2) (c) of this
Act.




(2)

Subject to subsection (3), 50% of the assessed value of a parcel, or a
portion of a parcel, of land must be treated as if it were exempt for
the purposes of calculating the rates under section 17 (1.1) and the
amount of a requisition referred to in section 17 (2) (b) or (c), as
applicable, if




(a)

the parcel or portion is classified as a farm under the

Assessment Act

, or




(b)

the parcel or portion is in the agricultural land reserve within the
meaning of the

Agricultural Land Commission Act

, is subject to sections 18 to 20.3 and 28 of that Act and satisfies
one or more of the conditions set out in subsection (3) of this
section.




(3)

The parcel or portion of a parcel referred to in subsection (2) (b)
must be




(a)

vacant and unused,




(b)

used for a farm or residential purpose, or




(c)

used for a purpose that is permitted by the Lieutenant Governor in
Council under this Act.




(4)

Land must be treated as if it were exempt for the purposes of
calculating the rates under section 17 (1.1) and the amount of a
requisition referred to in section 17 (2) (b) or (c), as applicable,
if the land is included in a timber lease or timber licence issued
under an enactment of British Columbia or of Canada




(a)

for which a stumpage, as defined in the

Forest Act

, has not been reserved or not made available to the government, or




(b)

which is held for the specific purpose of cutting and removing timber,
and for no other purpose while so held.




(5)

Property that would be exempt from taxation under laws of a taxing
treaty first nation or Nisg̱a'a laws, that have the same effect in
respect of the treaty lands of the taxing treaty first nation or
Nisg̱a'a Lands, as applicable, as a bylaw authorized under
section 225
[partnering and other exemptions]
of the

Community Charter

has in respect of land within a municipality in relation to




(a)

a partnering agreement under the applicable law,




(b)

a golf course, or




(c)

a cemetery, mausoleum or columbarium,


must be treated as if it were taxable for the purposes of calculating
the rates under section 17 (1.1), and the amount of a requisition
referred to in section 17 (2) (b) or (c), as applicable, of this Act
unless it can be treated as exempt under subsection (6) or (8) of this
section.




(6)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations requiring that
land and improvements that must be treated as taxable under subsection
(5) must be treated as exempt.




(7)

Regulations under subsection (6) may




(a)

require that all or part of the property that is exempted under the
law of the taxing treaty first nation or Nisg̱a'a laws, as applicable,
be treated as exempt,




(b)

require the property be treated as exempt for all or part of the term
of the exemption under the law of the taxing treaty first nation or
Nisg̱a'a laws, as applicable, and




(c)

be different for different classes or uses of property, different
classes of owners and different classes of partnering agreements.




(8)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council, by order in relation to property
referred to in subsection (5) that is specified in the order, may
require that




(a)

all or part of the property be treated as exempt for the purposes of
calculating the rates under section 17 (1.1) and the amount of a
requisition referred to in section 17 (2) (b) or (c),
as applicable, and




(b)

the property be treated as exempt for those purposes for all or part
of the term of the exemption under the laws of the taxing treaty first
nation or Nisg̱a'a laws, as applicable.




(9)

Property must not be treated as exempt for the purposes of calculating
the rates under section 17 (1.1) or the amount of a requisition
referred to in section 17 (2) (b) or (c) if the
property is exempted from property tax under, as applicable,




(a)

a law of a taxing treaty first nation that has the same effect in
respect of its treaty lands, or




(b)

a Nisg̱a'a law that has the same effect in respect of Nisg̱a'a Lands


as a bylaw has under section 226
[revitalization tax exemptions]
of the

Community Charter

in respect of land within a municipality.






Tax proceeds




20

(1)


On or before April 15 in each year, the authority must forward to the
tax collector of every municipality in British Columbia and to the
Surveyor of Taxes a copy of the bylaw of the authority imposing the
taxes under this Act.




(2)

On receipt of a copy of the bylaw, the tax collector of each
municipality or the Surveyor of Taxes, as the case may be, must have
the taxes levied placed on the tax roll.




(3)

The proceeds of the taxes levied and collected must be paid to the
authority by the municipality or the minister charged with the
administration of the

Financial Administration Act

, as the case may be, before August 1 in the year the tax was levied.




(4)

On or before February 1 in each year, the amount received by the
Surveyor of Taxes or the tax collector in a municipality by way of
grant in lieu of taxes under the

Payments in Lieu of Taxes Act

(Canada) from the government of Canada or from a corporation included
in Schedule III or IV of that Act in the immediately preceding
calendar year must be paid to the authority in an amount attributable
to the portion of the grant that is received for authority purposes.




(4.1)

On or before April 30 in each year, the authority must forward to each
taxing treaty first nation a requisition for the amount determined for
the treaty first nation by applying the rates approved under section
17 (2) (b) for the taxing treaty first nation to the net taxable value
of all land and improvements in the treaty lands of that taxing treaty
first nation, and must include a statement of those rates.




(4.2)

A treaty first nation that receives a requisition under subsection
(4.1) must pay the amount of the requisition to the authority on or
before August 1 in the year to which the requisition relates.




(4.3)

On or before April 30 in each year, the authority must forward to the
Nisg̱a'a Nation




(a)

a requisition for the amount




(i)

determined by applying the rates approved under section 17 (2) (c) to
the net taxable value of all land and improvements in Nisg̱a'a Lands,




(ii)

payable on or before August 1 of the same year, and




(iii)

bearing interest at the rate prescribed under subsection (7) of this
section on any part of that amount remaining unpaid on August 1, and




(b)

a statement of the rates referred to in paragraph (a) of this
subsection.




(5)

Until receipt of the proceeds of taxes and requisitions, the authority
may borrow an amount not exceeding those proceeds from the
consolidated revenue fund or from a bank, trust company or credit
union approved by the minister charged with the administration of the

Financial Administration Act

, and the loan must be paid from those proceeds.




(6)

If a municipality fails to pay the proceeds of taxes as required by
subsection (3) or a treaty first nation fails to pay the amount of a
requisition as required by subsection (4.2), it is liable to pay
to the authority, beginning on August 1 in the year the taxes were
levied, interest on the amount not paid at the rate prescribed under
subsection (7).




(7)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may, by regulation, establish a
rate of interest for the purpose of subsections (4.3) and (6).






Repealed




21


[Repealed 2003-66-25.]






Cooperation and preparation




22

(1)


If requested, an employee of the government or a municipality must
cooperate with the authority and supply to it any information
respecting assessment that it may request.




(2)

Despite any other Act, an assessment roll of the government or a
municipality must be prepared and completed in accordance with this
Act and the regulations or direction of the authority.






Consultations




22.1


The minister may require the authority to consult on a matter, with
any persons and within any period specified by the minister.






Policy directions




22.2

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may, by regulation, issue policy
directions to the authority with respect to the exercise of its powers
or the performance of its duties under this Act or any other Act.




(2)

The authority must comply with any policy directions issued under
subsection (1).






Offences




22.3


Section 5 of the

Offence Act

does not apply to this Act or the regulations.






Power to make regulations




23

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
section 41 of the

Interpretation Act

.




(2)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may authorize the authority to make
regulations.




