




Attorney General Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 22






Ministry




1

(1)


The Attorney General of British Columbia, appointed by the Lieutenant
Governor by Commission under the Great Seal, must preside over the
Ministry of Attorney General.




(2)

The Attorney General is her Majesty's Attorney General for British
Columbia, holds office during pleasure, and has the management and
direction of the ministry.






Duties and powers




2


The Attorney General




(a)

is the official legal adviser of the Lieutenant Governor and the legal
member of the Executive Council,




(b)

must see that the administration of public affairs is in accordance
with law,




(c)

must superintend all matters connected with the administration of
justice in British Columbia that are not within the jurisdiction of
the government of Canada,




(d)

must advise on the legislative acts and proceedings of the Legislature
and generally advise the government on all matters of law referred to
the Attorney General by the government,




(e)

is entrusted with the powers and charged with the duties which belong
to the office of the Attorney General and Solicitor General of England
by law or usage, so far as those powers and duties are applicable to
British Columbia, and also with the powers and duties which, by the
laws of Canada and of British Columbia to be administered and carried
into effect by the government of British Columbia, belong to the
office of the Attorney General and Solicitor General,




(f)

must advise the heads of the ministries of the government on all
matters of law connected with the ministries,




(g)

is charged with the settlement of all instruments issued under the
Great Seal of British Columbia,




(h)

[Repealed 1997-7-17.]




(i)

has the regulation and conduct of all litigation for or against the
government or a ministry in respect of any subjects within the
authority or jurisdiction of the legislature, and




(j)

is charged generally with duties as may be assigned by law or by the
Lieutenant Governor in Council to the Attorney General.






Compliance with standards established by Attorney General




3

(1)


In this section,
"public body"
means




(a)

a body that is, under an Act, an agent of the government,




(b)

a board, commission, council or other body of persons, whether or not
incorporated, all the members of which or all the members of the board
of management or board of directors of which are appointed by an Act,
an order of the Lieutenant Governor in Council or a minister of the
government, or




(c)

a corporation, more than 50% of the shares or ownership of which is,
directly or indirectly, vested in the government.




(2)

A public body designated by the Attorney General must comply with all
requirements and standards established by the Attorney General for
that public body in respect of the following:




(a)

retaining, contracting with or employing persons to provide legal
services;




(b)

reports on and audits of those legal services.






Relator action not required to protect use of title




4

(1)


If an Act establishes an organization, whether or not it is
incorporated, and requires a person to be a member of that
organization before the person can use a title or designation reserved
by the Act for the exclusive use of its members, the organization may,
in its own name and without the consent of the Attorney General, seek
injunctive relief against a person who is not a member in good
standing but who is using the title or designation or otherwise
representing that the person is a member in good standing.




(2)

For the purposes of the

Social Workers Act

, the board of the British Columbia College of Social Workers has the
powers referred to in subsection (1) to restrain an unlawful use of
the designation reserved by that Act.






Staff




5

(1)


A Deputy Attorney General and other officers, clerks and employees
required for the conduct of the business of the ministry may be
appointed under the

Public Service Act

.




(2)

The Attorney General may, for this Act and any other Act under the
administration of the Attorney General, enter into agreements with a
person or body.






Annual report




6


The Attorney General must make a report to the Lieutenant Governor of
the conduct of the ministry up to MarchÂ 31 in each year, which
must be presented to the Legislative Assembly.




