




British Columbia Railway Finance Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 37






Definition




1


In this Act,
"company"
means the British Columbia Railway Company.






Negotiation of loan




2

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may appoint the minister or another
person as the agent of the company for the purpose of negotiating any
loans under this Act.




(2)

The minister or other appointed person may arrange all details and do,
transact and execute all deeds, matters and things required during the
conduct of negotiations or to place a loan.






Power of company to borrow




3

(1)


With the approval of the Lieutenant Governor in Council, and within
the borrowing limitation established by section 15, the company,
for any of its purposes, may do one or more of the following:




(a)

borrow the money it requires;




(b)

issue notes, bonds, debentures and other securities bearing interest
at a rate and payable as to principal and interest in a currency, at a
place, at a time and in a manner it determines;




(c)

provide that the notes, bonds, debentures and other securities may be
made redeemable in advance of maturity at a time and at a price it
determines at the time of issue.




(2)

The purposes of the company, without limiting their generality,
include all of the following:




(a)

repayment on account of advances by the government to the company;




(b)

repayment, refunding or renewal of any part of a loan raised or
securities issued by the company under this Act, except to the extent
that a sinking fund is available for the payment of a loan or
securities and a recital or declaration in the resolution or minutes
of the board of directors of the company authorizing the issue of
securities as to the amount of any sinking fund available is
conclusive evidence of the fact;




(c)

payment of any part of a loan, liability, bond, debenture or other
securities, payment of which is guaranteed or assumed by the company;




(d)

payment of any other liability or indebtedness of the company;




(e)

constructing, reconstructing, extending, bettering, maintaining,
equipping and operating the railway of the company and providing the
necessary ancillary works.






Exercise of borrowing authority




4

(1)


The board of directors may, by resolution, delegate any of their
powers or the powers of the company under this section to any director
or officer of the company.




(2)

A resolution under this section approved by the required number of
directors by telex, telegraph, telephone or any other similar means of
communication confirmed in writing or other graphic communication, is
as valid and effectual as if it had been passed at a meeting of the
directors properly called and constituted.






Authorization to borrow from Canada Pension Plan Investment Fund




5


Despite anything in this Act, the company may, in the bylaw or
resolution under section 3, authorize the minister or, with the
concurrence of the minister, authorize the Minister of Finance of
Canada to determine any matter required to be determined under
section 3 for




(a)

borrowing money from the Canada Pension Plan Investment Fund
established under the
Canada Pension Plan
, and




(b)

issuing and selling to the Receiver General and Minister of Finance of
Canada for the credit of the Canada Pension Plan Investment Fund
debentures as security for the loans.






Amount of securities to be borrowed




6

(1)


With the approval of the Lieutenant Governor in Council, the company
may borrow and may issue securities in amounts that will realize the
net sum required for its purposes.




(2)

A recital or declaration in the resolution or minutes of the board of
directors of the company authorizing the issue of securities to the
effect that the amount of the securities so authorized is necessary to
realize the net sum required for the purposes of the company is
conclusive evidence of the fact.






Disposal of securities




7


With the approval of the Lieutenant Governor in Council, and on terms
and conditions as may be advisable,




(a)

the minister or a person appointed by the minister for the purpose, on
behalf of the company, may dispose of any notes, bonds, debentures and
other securities, at par value or at less or more than par value, and




(b)

the company may charge, pledge, deposit or otherwise deal with any
securities as collateral security.






Collateral securities




8

(1)


Securities disposed of under section 7 and dealt with as collateral
securities, if redelivered to the company or its nominees on or after
payment, satisfaction, release or discharge, in whole or in part, of
any of the indebtedness or obligation for which the securities may
have been given as collateral, or if the company again becomes
entitled to the securities, may




(a)

be treated by the company as unissued,




(b)

with the approval of the Lieutenant Governor in Council, be issued,
reissued, charged, pledged, deposited, dealt with as collateral
security, sold or otherwise disposed of on the terms and conditions
that the company may consider advisable, or




(c)

at its option, be cancelled and fresh securities for the same amount
and in the same form issued instead with the same consequences.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1), on the issue or reissue of the
securities, a person entitled to them has the same rights and remedies
as if they had not been issued previously.




(3)

The company may engrave, lithograph, print or otherwise mechanically
reproduce the seal of the company on any security which is to be
sealed with the company seal.




(4)

The seal of the company when mechanically reproduced has the same
effect as if manually sealed, and any mechanically reproduced
signature or signatures is for all purposes valid and binding on the
company even if the person whose signature is reproduced has ceased to
hold office before the date of the security or before its issue.






Form of securities




9


The notes, bonds, debentures and other securities authorized and
issued by the company under this Act must be in a form determined by
the company or by the minister as agent for the company.






Securities to be signed and sealed




10


The bonds, debentures and other securities must bear the seal of the
company and, together with any coupons attached, must bear the
signatures in writing of




(a)

the president and another director or officer, or




(b)

other directors or officers as the company may determine.






Temporary borrowings




11

(1)


With the approval of the Lieutenant Governor in Council and within the
borrowing limitation established by section 15, the company may
borrow, by way of temporary loans, sums on terms and conditions that
the company determines.




(2)

Any cheques, promissory notes or other instruments that may be
necessary or desirable in connection with the borrowing of money and
the obtaining of advances by way of temporary loans may be executed in
the manner the company determines.






Guarantee by the government




12

(1)


In this section,
"subsidiary"
has the same meaning as in the

British Columbia Railway Act

.




(2)

On the terms and in the manner and form the Lieutenant Governor in
Council determines, the Lieutenant Governor in Council may guarantee




(a)

payments under leases entered into, and




(b)

the payment of principal and interest of any notes, bonds, debentures
or other securities issued


by the company or a subsidiary of the company and of any loans,
temporary or otherwise, raised by the company or a subsidiary of the
company.




(3)

On the terms and in the manner and form the Lieutenant Governor in
Council determines, the Lieutenant Governor in Council may




(a)

guarantee payment of, or give an indemnity with respect to payment by
any subsidiary of, any amount of money relating to shares issued by
the subsidiary, and




(b)

to facilitate the issue or sale of shares in respect of which the
guarantee or indemnity is given, enter into any agreement relating to
the shares or to the status or ownership of the subsidiary.




(4)

The guarantee, indemnity or agreement under subsection (2) or (3) must
bear the manual, engraved, lithographed or printed signature of the
minister, or the manual, engraved, lithographed or printed signature
of another officer of the ministry designated by the Lieutenant
Governor in Council.




(5)

The engraved, lithographed or printed signature of the minister or of
any other officer is for all purposes the signature of that person,
and is binding on the government even though the person whose
signature is reproduced may not have held office at the date of the
notes, bonds, debentures or other securities or at the date of the
delivery, and despite any change in any of the persons holding office
between the time when the signature is affixed and the date of
delivery of the notes, bonds, debentures or other securities.




(6)

If a guarantee, indemnity or agreement given or entered into under
subsection (2) or (3) is signed, the government is
bound by the agreement and liable for




(a)

the lease payments guaranteed,




(b)

the payment of the principal and interest of the notes, bonds,
debentures, securities and loans guaranteed, according to their tenor,
and




(c)

payment in accordance with the terms of the guarantee or indemnity
given with respect to any shares.




(7)

Money payable under the guarantee or indemnity referred to in
subsection (6) must be paid out of the consolidated revenue fund.




(8)

The guarantee, indemnity or agreement signed is conclusive evidence
that the requirements of this section have been complied with.






Sinking fund




13

(1)


If required by the minister, the company must establish a sinking
fund, on terms and conditions approved by the Lieutenant Governor in
Council, for the repayment of any part of any securities issued by the
company.




(2)

A sinking fund established under the section replaced by this section
is continued and must be maintained.






Continuing grant, debt charges




14

(1)


The minister must in each year, on or before the fiscal year end of
the company, review the debt and capital expenditures of the company
and determine the amount of a grant to be paid in respect of the
company's debt charges and capital expenditures.




(2)

The minister must, subject to an appropriation of the Legislature, pay
the amount of the grant to the company for the purpose the minister
specifies under subsection (1).






Borrowing limit




15


The amount of the unredeemed securities issued by the company less the
value, as determined by the minister, of sinking funds established for
the retirement of those securities must not exceed $1.2 billion.






Calculations in Canadian and U.S. dollars




16

(1)


For computing the amount referred to in section 15, $1 in lawful
money of the United States of America is deemed to be the equivalent
of $1 in lawful money of Canada in respect of all borrowings made by
the Lieutenant Governor in Council or by the company under the
authority of this Act.




(2)

For calculating the sum to be set aside in each year for a sinking
fund under the provisions of section 13 in respect of securities
payable in United States dollars, $1 in lawful money of Canada may be
deemed to be the equivalent of $1 in lawful money of the United States
of America.






Investment of surplus funds




17


The minister may invest any funds raised under this Act in the hands
of the company which it certifies are not immediately required for its
purposes in investments permitted for a trust fund under section 40
(4) of the

Financial Administration Act

, and may sell the securities as and when the minister thinks
expedient, but the authority does not extend to sinking funds provided
under this Act.






Power of company and directors




18


Despite any other Act, any order of the Lieutenant Governor in Council
or any resolution or bylaw of the company or the board of directors of
the company, the company may perform, execute and carry out every act,
deed, matter and thing necessary for carrying out and giving effect to
this Act, and the board of directors of the company is authorized,
with the approval of the Lieutenant Governor in Council, to exercise
all the powers of the company.






Interest in case of default




19


If the company defaults in the payment of any costs which it is
required to pay to the government under this Act, the company must pay
the interest that the Lieutenant Governor in Council may determine on
the sum in default.






Audit




20


The minister may direct the Comptroller General to examine and report
to the Treasury Board on any or all of the financial and accounting
operations of the company.




