




Canadian Pacific Railway (Stone and Timber) Settlement Act
[SBC 2014] CHAPTER 27


Assented to November 27, 2014






Definitions




1


In this Act:


"CPR"
means the Canadian Pacific Railway Company;



"current action"

means Action No. S134003 in the Vancouver Registry of the Supreme
Court;



"historic grant of railway land"

means a grant or disposition of railway land by a historic railway
company;



"historic railway company"

means any of the following:




(a)

the British Columbia Southern Railway Company;




(b)

the Columbia and Kootenay Railway and Navigation Company;




(c)

the Columbia and Western Railway Company;


"interest"
includes a claim, estate, right or title;



"railway land"

means any land




(a)

that was granted by the government to a historic railway company, and




(b)

that was, at the time of the grant referred to in paragraph (a),
located in a district lot set out in Column 1 of the Schedule in the
land district, or the division of the land district, set out opposite
in Column 2;



"settlement agreement"

means the settlement agreement between CPR and the government in
relation to the current action;



"stone reservation"

means a term or condition included in a historic grant of railway land
that reserved or purported to reserve one or both of the following to
the historic railway company:




(a)

an interest in stone, including, without limitation, valuable or
marketable stone, in, on or under the railway land;




(b)

interests incidental to the interest referred to in paragraph (a),
including, without limitation, interests respecting the following:




(i)

ingress to and egress from the railway land;




(ii)

the right, upon payment of compensation, to extract and carry away
stone from the railway land;




(iii)

the right to take and use the railway land to carry on operations
incidental to the right referred to in subparagraph (ii) of this
paragraph;



"stone reservation interest"

means an interest resulting from a stone reservation;



"timber reservation"

means a term or condition included in a historic grant of railway land
that reserved or purported to reserve one or both of the following to
the historic railway company:




(a)

an interest in wood, timber or trees on the railway land;




(b)

interests incidental to the interest referred to in paragraph (a),
including, without limitation, interests respecting the following:




(i)

ingress to and egress from the railway land;




(ii)

covenants of the grantee limiting the cutting of wood, timber or trees
on the railway land;



"timber reservation interest"

means an interest resulting from a timber reservation.






Extinguishment of stone reservation interests




2

(1)


All stone reservation interests held by CPR are extinguished.




(2)

A historic grant of railway land that includes a stone reservation in
respect of which the stone reservation interest is extinguished under
subsection (1) must be read as if the stone reservation had not been
included in the historic grant of railway land.




(3)

For certainty and without limiting subsection (2), that subsection
applies for the purpose of determining the extent of an interest, if
any, that a person holds in railway land after the extinguishment of a
stone reservation interest under subsection (1).






Extinguishment of timber reservation interests




3

(1)


All timber reservation interests held by CPR are extinguished.




(2)

A historic grant of railway land that includes a timber reservation in
respect of which the timber reservation interest is extinguished under
subsection (1) must be read as if the timber reservation had not been
included in the historic grant of railway land.




(3)

For certainty and without limiting subsection (2), that subsection
applies for the purpose of determining the extent of an interest, if
any, that a person holds in railway land after the extinguishment of a
timber reservation interest under subsection (1).






Land title records




4

(1)


In this section:


"owner"
has the same meaning as in the

Land Title Act

;


"registrar"
has the same meaning as in the

Land Title Act

.




(2)

Despite any enactment, if a stone reservation interest or timber
reservation interest




(a)

is extinguished under section 2 (1) or 3 (1), as applicable, and




(b)

remains registered under the

Land Title Act

in favour of a historic railway company or CPR, or any other person,
against a title to railway land,


the registrar, on application by a person who is an owner in respect
of the railway land, may cancel the registration of the stone
reservation interest or timber reservation interest.




(3)

For certainty, the following take effect without any registration or
cancellation of registration under the

Land Title Act

:




(a)

the extinguishment of a stone reservation interest or timber
reservation interest under section 2 (1) or 3 (1), as applicable;




(b)

any change to the extent of an interest in railway land resulting from
an extinguishment referred to in paragraph (a) of this subsection.






Settlement and extinguishment of claims




5

(1)


The payment of compensation by the government to CPR under the
settlement agreement constitutes full and final settlement of all
claims by CPR against any person, whether or not the person is named
or described in the current action, in relation to any of the
following matters:




(a)

a matter that is raised or referred to in the current action;




(b)

a matter that could have been raised or referred to in the current
action;




(c)

the enactment of this Act including, without limitation, the
extinguishment of




(i)

stone reservation interests under section 2 (1),




(ii)

timber reservation interests under section 3 (1), and




(iii)

claims by CPR under subsection (2) of this section.




(2)

All claims by CPR against any person in relation to any matter
referred to in subsection (1) are extinguished.






Validation




6

(1)


In this section:



"effective date"

means the date this section comes into force;



"resource instrument"

means a title, grant, transfer, easement, disposition, lease, licence,
permit, agreement or other instrument created or issued by, or entered
into with, the government.




(2)

Despite any enactment,




(a)

every resource instrument that




(i)

was created, issued or entered into before the effective date, and




(ii)

would have been valid had stone reservations and timber reservations
not been included in any historic grant of railway land


is confirmed and validated, effective on the date the resource
instrument was created, issued or entered into, and




(b)

the government is conclusively deemed, at the time a resource
instrument referred to in paragraph (a) was created, issued or entered
into, to have had the authority to create, issue or enter into the
resource instrument.




(3)

Despite any enactment, all things done, before the effective date,
under a resource instrument or an enactment that would have been
validly done




(a)

had this section been in force on the day they were done, and




(b)

had stone reservations and timber reservations not been included in
any historic grant of railway land


are conclusively deemed to have been validly done.






Certain actions and proceedings prohibited




7


A person has no right of action and must not commence or maintain an
action or other proceeding against the government for compensation or
damages in relation to the enactment of this Act.






Enforcement of settlement agreement




8


For certainty, sections 5 (2) and 7 do not apply to a claim, action or
proceeding by CPR or the government to enforce or determine a right or
obligation under the settlement agreement.






Offence Act




9


Section 5 of the

Offence Act

does not apply to this Act.






Retroactive effect




10


This Act is retroactive to the extent necessary to give full force and
effect to its provisions and must not be construed as lacking
retroactive effect in relation to any matter because it makes no
specific reference to that matter.






Repealed




11


[Repealed 2014-27-11.]




Consequential Amendment









[Note: See Table of Legislative Changes for the status of section
12.]









Section(s)



Affected Act






12




Expropriation Act









Commencement




13


This Act comes into force by regulation of the Lieutenant Governor in
Council.




Schedule


(Section 1)





Item


Column 1

District Lot


Column 2

Land District





1
301A
Kootenay


2
302A
Kootenay


3
303
Kootenay


4
304
Kootenay


5
306
Kootenay


6
309
Kootenay


7
310
Kootenay


8
311
Kootenay


9
312
Kootenay


10
313
Kootenay


11
314
Kootenay


12
315
Kootenay


13
316
Kootenay


14
317
Kootenay


15
318
Kootenay


16
319
Kootenay


17
320
Kootenay


18
321
Kootenay


19
322
Kootenay


20
323
Kootenay


21
324
Kootenay


22
325
Kootenay


23
326
Kootenay


24
327
Kootenay


25
328
Kootenay


26
329
Kootenay


27
330
Kootenay


28
331
Kootenay


29
332
Kootenay


30
334
Kootenay


31
335
Kootenay


32
336
Kootenay


33
338
Kootenay


34
339
Kootenay


35
340
Kootenay


36
341
Kootenay


37
342
Kootenay


38
343
Kootenay


39
344
Kootenay


40
345
Kootenay


41
346
Kootenay


42
347
Kootenay


43
348
Kootenay


44
349
Kootenay


45
350
Kootenay


46
351
Kootenay


47
352
Kootenay


48
353
Kootenay


49
354
Kootenay


50
355
Kootenay


51
356
Kootenay


52
357
Kootenay


53
358
Kootenay


54
359
Kootenay


55
360
Kootenay


56
361
Kootenay


57
362
Kootenay


58
363
Kootenay


59
365
Kootenay


60
366
Kootenay


61
367
Kootenay


62
373
Kootenay


63
375
Kootenay


64
376
Kootenay


65
377
Kootenay


66
378
Kootenay


67
379
Kootenay


68
380
Kootenay


69
381
Kootenay


70
382
Kootenay


71
383
Kootenay


72
384
Kootenay


73
397
Kootenay


74
398
Kootenay


75
400
Kootenay


76
421
Kootenay


77
422
Kootenay


78
423
Kootenay


79
424
Kootenay


80
425
Kootenay


81
426
Kootenay


82
4588
Kootenay


83
4589
Kootenay


84
4590
Kootenay


85
4591
Kootenay


86
4592
Kootenay


87
4595
Kootenay


88
4596
Kootenay


89
4597
Kootenay


90
4598
Kootenay


91
4599
Kootenay


92
5816
Kootenay


93
5817
Kootenay


94
7159
Kootenay


95
7160
Kootenay


96
7161
Kootenay


97
2698
Osoyoos Division of Yale


98
2699
Osoyoos Division of Yale


99
2700
Osoyoos Division of Yale


100
2701
Osoyoos Division of Yale


101
2702
Osoyoos Division of Yale


102
2703
Osoyoos Division of Yale


103
2704
Osoyoos Division of Yale


104
2705
Osoyoos Division of Yale


105
2706
Osoyoos Division of Yale


106
2707
Osoyoos Division of Yale


107
2708
Osoyoos Division of Yale


108
2709
Osoyoos Division of Yale


109
2710
Osoyoos Division of Yale


110
2711
Similkameen Division of Yale


111
3635
Similkameen Division of Yale


112
3636
Similkameen Division of Yale


113
3637
Similkameen Division of Yale


114
3638
Similkameen Division of Yale


115
3639
Similkameen Division of Yale





