




Community Services Interim Authorities Act
[SBC 2002] CHAPTER 58


Assented to October 31, 2002






Definitions




1


In this Act:



"administrative services"

means the types of administrative and support services provided
pursuant to the powers, functions and duties of the Minister of
Children and Family Development in order to facilitate the provision
of community services and includes legal services provided to that
minister;


"board"
means a board for an interim authority;



"community services"

means the following types of services provided pursuant to the powers,
functions and duties of the Minister of Children and Family
Development at any time during the fiscal year beginning April 1,
2002:




(a)

adoption services;




(b)

services related to early childhood development;




(c)

services to assist families in caring for their children;




(d)

services for children and youth with special needs to assist them to
live in the community;




(e)

mental health services for children and youth;




(f)

support services for youth in crisis;




(g)

child protection and guardianship services;




(h)

services for youth in conflict with the law;




(i)

services for adults with developmental disabilities to assist them to
live in the community,


and includes other types of services provided pursuant to the powers,
functions and duties of the Minister of Children and Family
Development that are prescribed by the minister;


"donation"
means any gift made to the interim authority, and includes bequests,
devises, other testamentary dispositions, deeds of trust, money,
shares, stocks, bonds and any other property, wherever situated;



"fiscal year"

means a year beginning on April 1;



"interim authority"

means an authority established under section 3;



"new authority"

means a corporation that is to be established under an enactment for
the purpose of providing or supporting the provision of




(a)

all or a portion of community services in the Province or in a part of
the Province,




(b)

all or a portion of administrative services in the Province or in a
part of the Province, or




(c)

both types of services referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b), in the
Province or in a part of the Province.






Purposes of interim authorities




2


The purposes of an interim authority are, with the assistance of the
minister,




(a)

to prepare for the establishment and operation of a new authority, and




(b)

to perform the functions necessary to facilitate a new authority
providing some or all community services or administrative services in
place of the Ministry of Children and Family Development.






Establishment of interim authorities




3

(1)


The minister, by regulation, may establish one or more interim
authorities.




(2)

On the establishment of an interim authority under subsection (1), the
interim authority is a corporation consisting of the members of the
board.






Composition of board




4

(1)


A board consists of the members appointed by the minister.




(2)

The minister may appoint to a board




(a)

the number of voting members that the minister considers appropriate,
and




(b)

one non-voting member who is employed in the Ministry of Children and
Family Development.




(3)

A voting member of a board may be appointed for a term of up to
2 years, as set by the minister.




(4)

A voting member of a board may not be appointed for more than 2
successive terms.




(5)

The minister must designate a voting member of a board to be chair.






Remuneration




5

(1)


The minister may set




(a)

remuneration for voting members of a board, including different rates
of remuneration for different members, and




(b)

other conditions of appointment of a board member.




(2)

An interim authority may pay a voting member of its board the
remuneration set by the minister, and, in accordance with the
directives of Treasury Board, an allowance for reasonable travelling
and incidental expenses necessarily incurred in carrying out the
business of the board.






Management




6

(1)


A board must manage the affairs of the interim authority for which it
is the board and may




(a)

exercise the powers and perform the functions and duties of the
interim authority on behalf of the interim authority, and




(b)

delegate to another person the exercise of any power or performance of
any function or duty conferred or imposed on the board.




(2)

A board may pass resolutions and bylaws it considers necessary or
advisable for the management and conduct of its affairs, the exercise
of its powers and the performance of its duties and functions.




(3)

A resolution in writing, signed by all the members of the board, is as
valid as if it had been passed at a meeting of the board properly
called and constituted.






Minister's powers




7

(1)


The minister may, from time to time,




(a)

provide information and assistance to an interim authority,




(b)

give directions to and set objectives for an interim authority,




(c)

assess interim authorities and the ability of an interim authority to
carry out its powers, functions and duties under this Act, and




(d)

conduct consultations for the purposes of this Act, including
consultations with interim authorities respecting the provision of
community services by or on behalf of the Ministry of Children and
Family Development.




(2)

In giving directions under subsection (1), the minister may direct an
interim authority to exercise or refrain from exercising a power, or
perform or refrain from performing a function or duty, under this Act.






Directions of minister




8


An interim authority must carry out its powers, functions and duties
in accordance with the requests, directions and specifications of the
minister.






Duties of interim authorities




9

(1)


If requested by the minister, an interim authority must




(a)

make recommendations to the minister respecting the provision of one
or more types of community services or administrative services by or
on behalf of a new authority,




(b)

develop administrative services and systems necessary for a new
authority to provide administrative services,




(c)

consult with the persons and organizations, including aboriginal
persons and organizations, that the minister specifies, respecting
issues and matters specified by the minister,




(d)

develop records for the purposes of this section and submit those
records to the minister for approval, and




(e)

carry out any other function related to the purposes of the interim
authority.




(2)

If requested by the minister, an interim authority must




(a)

develop an annual budget and a business plan for the interim
authority, and




(b)

prepare a report on the extent to which the interim authority met the
objectives set out in its business plan.






Powers of interim authorities




10

(1)


Subject to subsection (2) of this section and sections 7 (2) and 11
(2), an interim authority has the powers and capacity of a natural
person of full capacity for the purposes of carrying out its powers,
functions and duties under this Act.




(2)

Unless the minister gives prior approval, an interim authority may not
acquire land or borrow money.






Officers, consultants and staff




11

(1)


A board may appoint one or more members of the board as officers of
the board.




(2)

An interim authority may engage staff only in the following ways:




(a)

engage, as independent contractors, specialists and consultants;




(b)

with the prior written approval of the minister, engage a person as an
employee.




(3)

Subject to subsection (4), the

Public Service Act

and the

Public Service Labour Relations Act

do not apply to an interim authority.




(4)

Subsection (3) does not affect the continued application of the

Public Service Act

and the

Public Service Labour Relations Act

to a person referred to in subsection (2) (b).






Donations




12

(1)


An interim authority may solicit and accept donations from any person
or source for the use of the interim authority.




(2)

In addition to soliciting and accepting donations under subsection
(1), an interim authority, with the minister's prior approval, may
solicit and accept donations for purposes related to the provision of
community services or administrative services by or on behalf of a new
authority.




(3)

On receipt of the minister's prior approval under subsection (2), an
interim authority must designate an operations account and a donations
account.




(4)

Subject to subsection (6) (b), all donations received by an interim
authority under subsection (2) for purposes related to provision of
services by or on behalf of a new authority must be entered in the
donations account of the interim authority.




(5)

All donations received by an interim authority under subsection (1)
for the use of the interim authority must be entered in the operations
account of the interim authority.




(6)

An interim authority,




(a)

subject to paragraph (b), must not use the donations in the donations
account, and




(b)

with the minister's prior approval, may transfer donations in the
donations account to a new authority.




(7)

A donation transferred to a new authority under subsection (6) (b)
remains subject to




(a)

the condition that the donation be used for the purposes referred to
in subsection (2), and




(b)

the conditions imposed by a donor on the donation to the interim
authority.






Financial requirements




13

(1)


An interim authority must




(a)

establish and maintain an accounting system satisfactory to the
minister, and




(b)

if required by the minister or the Minister of Finance, render
detailed accounts of revenues and expenditures of the interim
authority for the period or to the day designated by the minister who
required the detailed accounts.




(2)

All books or records of account, documents and other financial records
of an interim authority must at all times be open for inspection by
the minister or a person the minister designates.




(3)

The Minister of Finance may direct the Comptroller General to examine,
and report to Treasury Board on, any or all of the financial and
accounting operations of an interim authority.




(4)

Unless the Auditor General is appointed in accordance with the

Auditor General Act

as the auditor of an interim authority, the interim authority must
appoint an auditor to audit the accounts of the interim authority at
least once each year.




(5)

Once in each calendar year, and after the end of its fiscal year, an
interim authority must prepare, in a form satisfactory to the
minister, an audited financial statement showing




(a)

the assets and liabilities of the interim authority at the end of the
preceding fiscal year,




(b)

the income and expenditures of the interim authority for the preceding
fiscal year, and




(c)

a statement of changes in the financial position of the interim
authority for the preceding fiscal year.




(6)

The financial statement referred to in subsection (5) must be prepared
in accordance with




(a)

generally accepted accounting principles, and




(b)

the directions of the minister.




(7)

No deficit of any kind may be incurred by an interim authority without
the approval of the minister.






Application of other Acts




14

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), the

Business Corporations Act

does not apply to an interim authority.




(2)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council, by order, may declare that
provisions of the

Business Corporations Act

or the

Societies Act

apply to an interim authority.






Abolishing interim authorities




14.1

(1)


The minister, by regulation, may abolish an interim authority and
direct the disposition of all assets and liabilities of the interim
authority, subject to terms and conditions set out in the regulation,
having regard to the rights of creditors.




(2)

On the date that a disposition authorized by a regulation made under
subsection (1) takes effect, any asset or liability identified in the
regulation ceases to be the asset or liability of the interim
authority and becomes the asset or liability of the transferee.




(3)

A regulation made under subsection (1) may identify assets and
liabilities by name, class or description.




(4)

For the purposes of subsections (1) to (3), and despite the

Information Management Act

, assets may include records.






Offence Act




15


The

Offence Act

does not apply to this Act or the regulations under this Act.






Power to make regulations




16


The minister may make regulations referred to in section 41 of
the

Interpretation Act

.




