




Community Care and Assisted Living Act
[SBC 2002] CHAPTER 75


Assented to November 26, 2002




Part 1 — Definitions and Application of Act





Definitions




1


In this Act:


"adult"
means a person 19 years of age or older;



"assisted living residence"

means a premises or part of a premises, other than a community care
facility,




(a)

in which housing, hospitality services and assisted living services
are provided by or through the operator to 3 or more adults who




(i)

are not related by blood or marriage to the operator of the premises,
and




(ii)

do not require, on a regular basis, unscheduled professional health
services, or




(b)

designated by the Lieutenant Governor in Council to be an assisted
living residence;



"assisted living services"

means one or more of the following:




(a)

assistance with the activities of daily living, including eating,
moving about, dressing and grooming, bathing and other forms of
personal hygiene;




(b)

assistance with managing medication;




(c)

assistance with the safekeeping of money and other personal property;




(d)

assistance with managing therapeutic diets;




(e)

assistance with behaviour management;




(f)

psychosocial supports;




(g)

other types of prescribed assistance or support;


"board"
means the Community Care and Assisted Living Appeal Board continued
under section 29;


"care"
means supervision that is provided to




(a)

a child through a prescribed program,




(b)

a child or youth through a prescribed residential program, or




(c)

an adult who is




(i)

vulnerable because of family circumstances, age, disability, illness
or frailty, and




(ii)

dependent on caregivers for continuing assistance or direction;


"child"
means a person under the age of 13 years;



"community care facility"

means a premises or part of a premises




(a)

in which a person provides care to 3 or more persons who are not
related by blood or marriage to the person and includes any other
premises or part of a premises that, in the opinion of the medical
health officer, is used in conjunction with the community care
facility for the purpose of providing care, or




(b)

designated by the Lieutenant Governor in Council to be a community
care facility;



"director of licensing"

means the director of licensing designated under section 3 and
includes, for the purposes of a delegation made under section 3 (2),
the person to whom the delegation is made;


"employee"
includes




(a)

a volunteer,




(b)

a person providing services under contract or other person ordinarily
present at a community care facility but does not include a person in
care, or




(c)

a person providing services under a contract or other person
ordinarily present at an assisted living residence but does not
include a resident;



"health authority"

means a body designated under section 4 of the

Health Authorities Act

;



"hospitality services"

means meal services, housekeeping services, laundry services, social
and recreational opportunities and a 24-hour emergency response
system;


"licence"
means a licence issued under section 11;


"licensee"
means a person, including an aboriginal governing body however
organized and established by aboriginal people within their
traditional territory in British Columbia, that holds a licence;


"manager"
means an individual whom the licensee has authorized to manage the
operation of the community care facility;



"medical health officer"

means a medical health officer designated under the

Public Health Act

;


"minister"
includes a person designated in writing by the minister;



"municipality"

includes




(a)

a regional district, and




(b)

a local trust committee as defined in the

Islands Trust Act

;



"official website"

means a website that




(a)

is maintained by or on behalf of




(i)

the health authority that employs a medical health officer, for the
purposes of sections 15.1 to 15.4, or




(ii)

the government, for the purposes of sections 25.4 to 25.7, and




(b)

is publicly and freely accessible;



"person in care"

means a person who resides in or attends a community care facility for
the purpose of receiving care;


"premises"
means a building or structure and includes outside areas adjacent to
the building or structure ordinarily used in the course of providing
services;



"professional health services"

means health services provided




(a)

by a person who is registered as a member of a college of a health
profession designated under the

Health Professions Act

, or




(b)

by a social worker who is a registrant as defined in the

Social Workers Act

;


"registrant"
means an operator of an assisted living residence registered under
section 25;


"registrar"
means the assisted living registrar designated under section 24 and
includes, for the purposes of a delegation under section 24 (2), the
person to whom the delegation is made;



"registration"

means a registration under section 25 (1);


"resident"
means a person who




(a)

receives housing, hospitality services and assisted living services at
an assisted living residence described in paragraph (a) of the
definition of "assisted living residence" and, if the person resides
together with the person's spouse at the residence, includes the
person's spouse, or




(b)

receives housing and other services at an assisted living residence
described in paragraph (b) of the definition of "assisted living
residence" and, if the person resides together with the person's
spouse at the residence, includes the person's spouse;



"sibling group"

means a group of 3 or more children




(a)

who reside in the same household if they are in the care of a person
who is, with respect to each child,




(i)

a parent of the child,




(ii)

a person with whom the child is placed under the

Child, Family and Community Service Act

,




(iii)

a person who has custody or guardianship of the child under an order
of a court, or




(iv)

the spouse of a person referred to in subparagraph (i) or (iii) if
that person resides in the household, or




(b)

who are recognized by the director of licensing as a sibling group;


"spouse"
means a person who




(a)

is married to another person, or




(b)

has lived with another person in a marriage-like relationship for a
continuous period of at least 2 years;


"youth"
means a person who is neither a child nor an adult for the purposes of
this Act.






Application




2


This Act does not apply to any of the following:




(a)

a school under the

School Act

, other than the facilities of the school that are used for the
provision of a child care program as defined in that Act;




(b)

a school under the

Independent School Act

;




(c)

a francophone school under the

School Act

, other than the facilities of the francophone school that are used
for the provision of a child care program as defined in that Act;




(d)

a hospital or portion of a hospital as defined in the

Hospital Act

;




(e)

a home approved as a foster home under the

Child, Family and Community Service Act

;




(f)

a correctional centre or youth custody centre;




(g)

a school primarily providing, in the opinion of the director of
licensing, educational training for children 6 years of age or older;




(h)

a designated facility under the

Mental Health Act

;




(i)

a home providing day care for a sibling group only;




(j)

a community care facility that is exempted, or is within a class
exempted, under section 34 (5) (d);




(k)

an assisted living residence that is exempted, or is within a class
exempted, under section 34 (5) (d).




Part 2 — Community Care Facilities





Director of licensing




3

(1)


The minister must designate a person who is employed under the

Public Service Act

to be the director of licensing.




(2)

The director of licensing may delegate, in writing, any power or duty
of the director of licensing under this Act to




(a)

a person who, in the opinion of the director of licensing, possesses
the experience and qualifications suitable to carry out the tasks as
delegated, or




(b)

a medical health officer.




(3)

A delegation under subsection (2) may include any terms or conditions
the director of licensing considers advisable.






Powers of director of licensing




4

(1)


Subject to this Act and the regulations, the director of licensing may




(a)

require a health authority to provide routine or special reports on




(i)

the operation of licensed community care facilities within the area
for which the health authority has responsibility,




(ii)

the operation of the licensing program of the health authority, and




(iii)

the results of any investigations of community care facilities, or
investigations of complaints, conducted for it within the area for
which it has responsibility,




(b)

inspect or make an order for the inspection of any books, records or
premises in connection with the operation of a community care
facility,




(c)

require a health authority to conduct an audit of the operations of a
community care facility,




(d)

carry out or order the investigation of




(i)

a prescribed reportable incident at a licensed community care
facility, or




(ii)

a matter affecting the health or safety of a person in care,




(e)

specify policies and standards of practice for all community care
facilities or a class of community care facilities, and




(f)

make other orders the director of licensing considers necessary for
the proper operation of a community care facility or for the health
and safety of persons in care, including an order that is contrary to
the decision of a medical health officer.




(2)

A health authority must ensure that its employees and appointees
comply with an order made under subsection (1).






Operating or advertising without a licence




5


A person who does not hold a licence must not




(a)

operate, or hold themselves out as operating, a community care
facility,




(b)

provide, or hold themselves out as providing, care in a community care
facility, or




(c)

accommodate, or hold themselves out as accommodating, a person who, in
the opinion of a medical health officer, requires care in a community
care facility.






Age of licensee or manager




6


A person must be an adult to be a licensee or to manage a community
care facility.






Standards to be maintained




7

(1)


A licensee must do all of the following:




(a)

employ at a community care facility only persons of good character who
meet the standards for employees specified in the regulations;




(b)

operate the community care facility in a manner that will promote




(i)

the health, safety and dignity of persons in care, and




(ii)

in the case of adult persons in care, the rights of those persons in
care;




(c)

display the licence in the prescribed manner;




(c.1)

display the rights of adult persons in care




(i)

in a prominent place in the community care facility, and




(ii)

in a form and in the manner acceptable to the minister;




(c.2)

make the rights of adult persons in care known, orally and in writing,
to persons in care and their families and representatives;




(d)

appoint a manager for the community care facility.




(1.1)

For the purposes of subsection (1) (b), (c.1) and (c.2), the rights of
adult persons in care are the rights set out in section 1 of the
Schedule.




(1.2)

The minister may make orders for the purposes of subsection (1) (c.1)
(ii).




(2)

For purposes of subsection (1) (d), a licensee who is not a
corporation may also be a manager.






Certification of educators of children




8

(1)


A certificate may be issued to a person in accordance with the
regulations stating that the person has the qualifications required by
the regulations for certification as an educator of children, or as an
educator in the manner specified in the certificate respecting
children, at a community care facility.




(2)

A certificate issued under subsection (1) or under section 9 of the

Community Care Facility Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 60, may be suspended or cancelled, or terms and
conditions may be attached to it, following a hearing established and
conducted in accordance with the regulations.






Inspection of licensed community care facilities




9

(1)


The director of licensing or a medical health officer may exercise the
powers under subsection (2)




(a)

to determine if a licensee is complying with this Act, the regulations
or the terms and conditions of the licence,




(b)

to investigate a prescribed reportable incident at a licensed
community care facility, or




(c)

to determine if there is a risk to the health, safety or dignity of a
person in care at a licensed community care facility.




(2)

For the purposes under subsection (1), the director of licensing or a
medical health officer may do the following during the hours of
operation of a licensed community care facility:




(a)

enter and inspect any part of the community care facility;




(b)

require the licensee to produce for inspection or for the purpose of
obtaining copies or extracts the financial and other records that can
reasonably be presumed to contain information relevant to the purpose
for entering the community care facility;




(c)

inquire into and inspect all matters concerning the community care
facility, its operations, employees and persons in care, including any
treatment or rehabilitation program carried out in the community care
facility;




(d)

make a record of matters described in paragraph (c) and of the
condition of the community care facility.






Powers in relation to unlicensed premises




9.1

(1)


In this section,
"unlicensed premises"
means a premises that is not licensed and is being used or is intended
to be used as a community care facility.




(2)

Subject to subsection (3), if there are reasonable grounds to believe
that a premises is an unlicensed premises or that there is a risk to
the health or safety of a person residing at or attending unlicensed
premises, the director of licensing or a medical health officer may
exercise the following powers:




(a)

enter and inspect any part of the unlicensed premises;




(b)

require the owner of the unlicensed premises or occupant having
control of the unlicensed premises to produce for inspection or for
the purpose of obtaining copies or extracts the financial and other
records that can reasonably be presumed to contain information
relevant to the purpose for entering the premises;




(c)

request from the owner of the unlicensed premises, the occupant having
control of the unlicensed premises or the staff of either full
information respecting




(i)

the purpose for which the premises is being used or is intended to be
used,




(ii)

the operations and staff at the premises and the persons residing at
or attending the premises,




(iii)

the treatments or rehabilitation being given to persons residing at or
attending the premises, and




(iv)

the health and safety of persons residing at or attending the
premises;




(d)

make a record of matters described in paragraph (c) and of the
condition of the unlicensed premises.




(3)

The director of licensing or a medical health officer must not
exercise the powers under subsection (2) unless




(a)

the owner of the unlicensed premises or occupant having control of the
unlicensed premises consents, or




(b)

the exercise of the powers is authorized by a warrant issued under
subsection (4).




(4)

A justice may issue a warrant authorizing the director of licensing or
a medical health officer to exercise the powers under subsection (2)
if satisfied by evidence given under oath that




(a)

there are reasonable grounds to believe that a premises is an
unlicensed premises or that there is a risk to the health or safety of
a person residing at or attending the unlicensed premises, and




(b)

the owner of the unlicensed premises or occupant having control of the
unlicensed premises has refused to allow the director of licensing or
medical health officer to exercise the powers or there are reasonable
grounds to believe that the owner or occupant having control will
refuse to allow the director of licensing or medical health officer to
exercise the powers.




(5)

The director of licensing or a medical health officer must not use
force to execute a warrant issued under subsection (4) unless the use
of force is specifically authorized by the warrant.




(6)

Despite subsection (3), the director of licensing or a medical health
officer may exercise the powers under subsection (2) if there are
reasonable grounds to believe that there is an immediate risk to the
health or safety of a person residing at or attending the unlicensed
premises.






Copies admissible in evidence




9.2


A copy or an extract obtained under section 9 or 9.1, certified as a
true copy of or extract from the original by the director of licensing
or a medical health officer, as applicable, is admissible in evidence
to the same extent as, and has the same evidentiary value as, the
record of which it is a copy or from which it is an extract.






Not operating




10


If a licensee does not operate a premises as a community care facility
at any time during a 12 consecutive month period,




(a)

the licence expires automatically on the last day of the 12th month,
and




(b)

the person in possession of the licence must immediately surrender
that licence to a medical health officer.






Powers of medical health officer




11

(0.1)


In this section,
"director"
, in relation to a corporation that is a board of education as defined
in the

School Act

, includes a secrétaire trésorier as defined in
section 1 (1) of that Act or an individual appointed as a
secretary treasurer under section 23 of that Act.




(1)

Subject to this Act and the regulations, a medical health officer may
issue to an applicant a licence to operate a community care facility
and specify in the licence the types of care that may be provided in
the community care facility.




(2)

A medical health officer must not issue a licence under subsection (1)
unless the medical health officer is of the opinion that the
applicant,




(a)

if a person, other than a corporation,




(i)

is of good character,




(ii)

has the training, experience and other qualifications required under
the regulations,




(iii)

has the personality, ability and temperament necessary to operate a
community care facility in a manner that will maintain the spirit,
dignity and individuality of the persons being cared for, and




(iv)

agrees to be readily available to respond to inquiries from the
director of licensing or the medical health officer and to provide to
them financial and other records of the community care facility that
can reasonably be presumed to contain information relevant to the
administration of this Act and the regulations, or




(b)

if a corporation,




(i)

has a director permanently resident in British Columbia or a
prescribed province who agrees to be available by telephone or other
communication medium to respond to inquiries from the director of
licensing or the medical health officer within 24 hours of a request
and to provide to them financial and other records of the community
care facility that can reasonably be presumed to contain information
relevant to the administration of this Act and the regulations,




(ii)

has appointed as manager of the community care facility a person who
meets the requirements under paragraph (a), and




(iii)

has delegated to that manager full authority to operate the community
care facility in accordance with the requirements of this Act and the
regulations.




(3)

On issuing a licence under subsection (1), a medical health officer
may attach to the licence the terms and conditions that the medical
health officer considers necessary or advisable to protect or promote
the health and safety of persons in care.




(4)

In considering whether to attach terms and conditions under subsection
(3), the medical health officer must have regard to the standards of
practice specified by the director of licensing under section 4 (1)
(e).




(5)

A licence issued under subsection (1) is cancelled if its holder
assigns or otherwise transfers it to another person.






Not in force




12


[Not in force.]






Suspension or cancellation of licence




13

(1)


A medical health officer may suspend or cancel a licence, attach terms
or conditions to a licence or vary the existing terms and conditions
of a licence if, in the opinion of the medical health officer, the
licensee




(a)

no longer complies with this Act or the regulations,




(b)

has contravened a relevant enactment of British Columbia or of Canada,
or




(c)

has contravened a term or condition of the licence.




(2)

If a medical health officer suspends or cancels a licence, the
licensee, a corporation of which the licensee is an insider or an
associate of the licensee are prohibited from applying for a new
licence with respect to any premises that the licensee proposes to use
as a community care facility for




(a)

one year from the date of the decision to cancel the licence, or




(b)

the period of the licence suspension.




(3)

In this section:


"associate"
has the same meaning as in section 192 (1) of the

Business Corporations Act

;


"insider"
has the same meaning as in section 192 (1) of the

Business Corporations Act

.






Summary action




14


A medical health officer may suspend a licence, attach terms or
conditions to the licence, or vary terms or conditions of that
licence, without notice if the medical health officer has reasonable
grounds to believe that there is an immediate risk to the health or
safety of a person in care.






Duties of the medical health officer




15

(1)


A medical health officer must, within the area for which the medical
health officer is appointed,




(a)

investigate every application for a licence to operate a community
care facility or any other matter relevant to the application,




(b)

investigate every complaint that




(i)

an unlicensed community care facility is being operated, or




(ii)

a licensed community care facility is being operated that does not
comply with this Act, the regulations or the terms or conditions of
its licence,




(c)

carry out inspections of any community care facility that is being
operated, and




(d)

perform additional duties in the administration of this Act or the
regulations that the Lieutenant Governor in Council, the minister or
the director of licensing may order.




(2)

A medical health officer may continue and complete an investigation of
a licensee or a former licensee after




(a)

the licence has expired or been cancelled or suspended, or




(b)

the licensee has surrendered the licence.




(3)

If a medical health officer receives a complaint in respect of a
community care facility within the area for which the medical health
officer is appointed, but the complaint does not raise a matter
described in subsection (1) (b), the medical health officer may




(a)

refer the complaint, including all information submitted with the
complaint, to the person responsible for the appropriate program of
the health authority having responsibility for the area in which the
facility is located or to another appropriate agency, and




(b)

notify the complainant that the complaint has been referred and to
whom.






Publication of licence information




15.1

(1)


Within 30 days after issuing a licence, a medical health officer must
publish on an official website all of the following information:




(a)

the licensee's name;




(b)

the name and address of the licensee's community care facility.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), a medical health officer is not required to
publish the address of a licensee's community care facility if




(a)

the licensee applies for an exemption from that requirement, and




(b)

the medical health officer is satisfied that publishing the address
would present a risk to the health or safety of persons in care in the
licensee's facility.






Publication of reports respecting licensed facility




15.2

(1)


Within a prescribed period after completing an investigation or
inspection of a licensed community care facility, a medical health
officer must publish on an official website a report summarizing




(a)

the findings of the investigation or inspection, and




(b)

the actions, if any, taken or to be taken in response to those
findings by the medical health officer and the licensee.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), a medical health officer is not required to
publish information under that subsection if the investigation or
inspection is in response to a complaint that the medical health
officer finds to be frivolous, vexatious or unsubstantiated.




(3)

A medical health officer must promptly remove information respecting
investigations, published under this section, once 5 years have passed
since publication.




(4)

A medical health officer may remove information respecting inspections
that was published under this section once 5 years have passed since
publication.






Publication of reports respecting unlicensed premises




15.3

(1)


Within a prescribed period after finding, on completion of an
inspection, that a person is operating an unlicensed premises within
the meaning of section 9.1, a medical health officer must publish on
an official website all of the following information:




(a)

the name of the person found to be operating an unlicensed premises;




(b)

the name and address of the unlicensed premises;




(c)

a report summarizing




(i)

the findings of the inspection, and




(ii)

the actions, if any, taken or to be taken in response to those
findings by the medical health officer and the person found to be
operating an unlicensed premises.




(2)

Within a prescribed period after completing a follow-up inspection of
a premises that was previously the subject of publication under
subsection (1), a medical health officer must publish on an official
website a report summarizing




(a)

the findings of the follow-up inspection, and




(b)

the actions, if any, taken in response to the findings of the
follow-up inspection by the medical health officer and the person
found to be operating an unlicensed premises.




(3)

A medical health officer must promptly remove information that was
published under this section if a licence is subsequently issued in
respect of the community care facility.




(4)

If subsection (3) does not apply, a medical health officer may remove
information that was published under this section once 5 years have
passed since publication.






Publication generally




15.4

(1)


A medical health officer must, if required by the regulations, publish
on an official website




(a)

information that is in addition to that required to be published under
sections 15.1 to 15.3, and




(b)

information respecting licensed and unlicensed community care
facilities generally.




(2)

A medical health officer who is required under this Act to publish
information on an official website must do so in accordance with the
regulations, if any.






Exemptions




16

(1)


A medical health officer may grant an exemption from a requirement of
this Act or the regulations to a licensee or an applicant for a
licence who applies for the exemption, if satisfied that




(a)

there will be no increased risk to the health and safety of persons in
care, and




(b)

the exemption meets prescribed requirements.




(2)

A medical health officer may attach terms and conditions to the
exemption and suspend, cancel or vary an exemption granted under
subsection (1) in the same manner as under sections 13 and 14.






Prohibition against interfering with director of licensing or medical
health officer




16.1


A person must not interfere with, hinder or obstruct the director of
licensing or a medical health officer when the director of licensing
or medical health officer is exercising a power or performing a duty
under this Act.






Reconsideration




17

(1)


In this section:


"action"
, in relation to a licence, means




(a)

a refusal to issue a licence under section 11 (1),




(b)

an attachment, under section 11 (3), of terms or conditions,




(c)

a suspension or cancellation, an attachment of terms or conditions, or
a variation of terms or conditions under section 13 (1), or




(d)

a suspension or cancellation of an exemption or an attachment or
variation of terms or conditions under section 16 (2);



"summary action"

means a suspension of a licence, an attachment of terms or conditions
to the licence, or a variation of those terms or conditions under
section 14;



"written response"

means a written response referred to in subsection (2) (b).




(2)

Thirty days before taking an action or as soon as practicable after
taking a summary action, a medical health officer must give the
licensee or applicant for the licence




(a)

written reasons for the action or summary action, and




(b)

written notice that the licensee or applicant for the licence may give
a written response to the medical health officer setting out reasons
why the medical health officer should act under subsection (3) (a) or
(b) respecting the action or summary action.




(3)

On receipt of a written response, the medical health officer may, to
give proper effect to section 11, 13, 14 or 16 in the circumstances,




(a)

delay or suspend the implementation of an action or a summary action
until the medical health officer makes a decision under paragraph (b),
or




(b)

confirm, rescind, vary, or substitute for the action or summary
action.




(4)

A medical health officer must not act under subsection (3) (a) unless
the medical health officer is satisfied that




(a)

further time is needed to consider the written response,




(b)

the written response sets out facts or arguments that, if confirmed,
would establish reasonable grounds for the medical health officer to
act under subsection (3) (b), and




(c)

it is reasonable to conclude that




(i)

if the delay or suspension is granted, the health or safety of no
person in care will be placed at risk, and




(ii)

the licensee or applicant for the licence will suffer a significant
loss during the proposed delay or suspension, if the delay or
suspension is not granted.




(5)

A medical health officer must give written reasons to the licensee or
applicant for the licence on acting or declining to act under
subsection (3).




(6)

A licensee or applicant for the licence may not give a medical health
officer a further written response concerning an action or summary
action on or after receipt of written reasons under subsection (5)
concerning the action or summary action.






Certain advertisements or inducements prohibited




18

(1)


In this section:


"licensee"
includes an officer or director of the licensee and an agent,
designate or employee of the licensee;



"personal representative"

includes the following:




(a)

an executor within the meaning of the

Wills, Estates and Succession Act

;




(b)

a representative under the

Representation Agreement Act

;




(c)

a trustee of an estate or part of an estate under administration;




(d)

an attorney acting under a power of attorney;




(e)

a committee under the

Patients Property Act

.




(2)

A licensee must not bring, or cause to be brought, advertise for or in
any way encourage the entry into British Columbia of a person under 19
years of age to become a person in care without first obtaining the
written approval of the director designated under the

Child, Family and Community Service Act

.




(3)

A licensee must not do any of the following:




(a)

persuade or induce, or attempt to persuade or induce, a person in care
to




(i)

make or alter a will,




(ii)

make a gift,




(iii)

provide a benefit for the licensee, the licensee's spouse, relative or
friend, or




(iv)

conduct the financial affairs of the person in care for the benefit of
the licensee, the licensee's spouse, relative or friend;




(b)

require that a person seeking admission to a community care facility,
as a condition of admission, make any payment or donation other than
as specified in a written contract;




(c)

act under the authority of a power of attorney or enduring power of
attorney under the

Power of Attorney Act

, granted to the licensee by a person in care;




(d)

act as a personal representative of the estate of a person in care or
formerly in care, unless the licensee is a child, parent or spouse of
the person in care or formerly in care;




(e)

act as a representative under an agreement made under the

Representation Agreement Act

by a person in care or formerly in care.




(4)

A provision of a will, an alteration of a will, a gift, a provision of
a benefit or another measure described in subsection (3) (a) (i) to
(iv) is void if




(a)

it confers a benefit on the licensee or the licensee's spouse,
relative or friend, and




(b)

the Public Guardian and Trustee has not given written consent to it.




(5)

A power of attorney or enduring power of attorney as described in
subsection (3) (c), or a disposition made under either of them, is
void unless




(a)

the licensee is a child, parent or spouse of the person in care.




(b)

[Repealed 2010-6-147.]




(6)

For the purposes of subsection (4) (a), a benefit conferred by a will,
an alteration of a will, a gift, a provision of a benefit or another
measure described in subsection (3) (a) (i) to (iv), is deemed to be
conferred at the time the will, alteration, gift or provision is made
or the other measure is taken.






Repayment agreements




19


If a person prepays part of the cost of services provided by a class
of community care facilities designated by the Lieutenant Governor in
Council, the licensee must, at the time of the prepayment, deliver to
the person a written statement setting out the terms and conditions on
which a refund of all or any of the prepayment will be made.






Certain laws not to apply




20

(1)


This section applies to a community care facility




(a)

for which a licence has been issued,




(b)

that is being, or is to be, used




(i)

as a day care for no more than 8 persons in care, or




(ii)

as a residence for no more than 10 persons, not more than 6 of whom
are persons in care,




(c)

from which, in the event of a fire, persons in care can safely exit
unaided or be removed by its staff, and




(d)

that complies with all enactments of British Columbia and the
municipality where the community care facility is located that relate
to fire and health respecting a single family dwelling house.




(2)

A provision in an enactment of British Columbia, other than this Act,
or of a municipality, does not apply to a community care facility
described in subsection (1) if that provision would




(a)

limit the number of persons in care who may be accepted or
accommodated at the community care facility,




(b)

limit the types of care that may be provided to persons in care at the
community care facility, or




(c)

apply to the community care facility only because




(i)

it is not being used as a single family dwelling house, or




(ii)

it operates as a community care facility, a charitable enterprise or a
commercial venture.






Arbitration in case of conflicting regulations




21

(1)


If a municipality refuses an application for a variation of, or for an
exemption from, an enactment of the municipality relating to fire and
health respecting a single family dwelling house, the applicant for a
licence to use as a community care facility a premises that does not
comply with the enactment may notify the minister and the municipality
in writing that the applicant requires the matter to be determined by
arbitration.




(2)

On receiving the notification under subsection (1), the minister must
appoint an arbitrator.




(3)

An arbitrator appointed under subsection (2), after considering the
public interest, may




(a)

dismiss the application, or




(b)

order that the applicant be exempted from the enactment.




(4)

An order made under subsection (3) is final and binding on the
applicant and the municipality, and if the premises is exempted under
subsection (3) (b), subsequent owners of the premises continue,
subject to compliance with this Act, to be exempted from the enactment
so long as the premises is operated by a licensee as a community care
facility.




(5)

Except as otherwise provided in this section, the

Arbitration Act

applies to an arbitration under this Act, but the applicant for a
licence must pay the fees and expenses described in section 26 (1) of
the

Arbitration Act

.






Protection for persons who report abuse




22

(1)


In this section,
"report of abuse"
means a report made in good faith that a licensee or an employee or
agent of a licensee has committed abuse against a person in care.




(2)

No action or other proceeding may be brought against a person for
making a report of abuse.




(3)

A licensee must not dismiss, suspend, demote, discipline, harass or
otherwise disadvantage an employee or agent of the licensee, or deny
the employee or agent a benefit, for making a report of abuse.




(4)

A licensee or other person must not interrupt, discontinue or
otherwise adversely affect, or threaten to interrupt, discontinue or
otherwise adversely affect, service to a person in care as a result of




(a)

a report of abuse, or




(b)

a suggested or stated intention to make a report of abuse.






Appointment of administrator




23

(1)


The minister may appoint an administrator to operate a community care
facility for a period specified by the minister if the minister has
reasonable grounds to believe that there is a risk to the health or
safety of a person in care.




(2)

The minister must serve the licensee or operator with notice of the
appointment of an administrator.




(3)

The administrator may exercise all powers necessary to continue the
operation of the community care facility and, without limitation, may




(a)

hire staff and pay their remuneration,




(b)

order the persons in care to pay any fees or charges directly to the
administrator, and




(c)

notify the minister responsible for the administration of the

Financial Administration Act

of the appointment.




(4)

If the minister responsible for the administration of the

Financial Administration Act

is notified of an administrator's appointment, all payments by the
government for services provided to persons cared for at that
community care facility must be made directly to the administrator.




(5)

The administrator must provide to the minister an accounting of the
operation of the community care facility at the end of the period of
the appointment, and any excess of revenue over expenditure must,
after deduction of the administrator's fees, be paid to the licensee
or operator.




(6)

The minister must determine the fees to be paid to the administrator,
but, if there is insufficient money to pay those fees under subsection
(5), the minister must pay the difference.




(7)

If the minister must pay the difference under subsection (6), the
amount of the difference is a debt owed by the licensee or operator to
the government and the debt is payable on demand.




Part 3 — Assisted Living Residences





Assisted living registrar




24

(1)


The minister must designate a person to be the assisted living
registrar.




(2)

The registrar may delegate, in writing, any power or duty of the
registrar under this Act to a person who, in the opinion of the
registrar, possesses the experience and qualifications suitable to
carry out the tasks as delegated.




(3)

A delegation under subsection (2) may include any terms or conditions
the registrar considers advisable.






Registration




25

(1)


Subject to this Act and the regulations, the registrar may, on
application, register an assisted living residence.




(2)

The registrar must not register an assisted living residence unless




(a)

the applicant applies in a manner that is satisfactory to the
registrar,




(b)

the registrar is of the opinion that the housing, hospitality services
and assisted living services to be provided to residents will be
provided in a manner that will not jeopardize their health or safety,
and




(c)

the registrar is of the opinion that the applicant has the training,
experience and other qualifications required under the regulations.




(3)

On registering an assisted living residence, the registrar may attach
to the registration the conditions that the registrar considers
necessary or advisable to protect the health and safety of residents.






Inspection of registered assisted living residences




25.1

(1)


The registrar may exercise the powers under subsection (2)




(a)

to determine if a registrant is complying with this Act, the
regulations or the conditions of the registration,




(b)

to investigate a prescribed reportable incident at a registered
assisted living residence, or




(c)

to determine if there is a risk to the health or safety of a resident
at a registered assisted living residence.




(2)

Subject to subsection (3), the registrar may, for the purposes under
subsection (1), do the following during the hours of operation of a
registered assisted living residence:




(a)

enter and inspect any part of the assisted living residence;




(b)

require the registrant to produce for inspection or for the purpose of
obtaining copies or extracts the financial and other records that can
reasonably be presumed to contain information relevant to the purpose
for entering the assisted living residence;




(c)

inquire into and inspect all matters concerning the assisted living
residence, its operations, employees and residents, including
hospitality services and assisted living services provided at the
residence;




(d)

make a record of matters described in paragraph (c) and of the
condition of the assisted living residence.




(3)

The registrar must not enter and inspect the personal residence of a
resident when exercising the powers under subsection (2) unless




(a)

the resident consents, or




(b)

the entry and inspection are authorized by a warrant issued under
subsection (4).




(4)

A justice may issue a warrant authorizing the registrar to enter and
inspect the personal residence of a resident if satisfied by evidence
given under oath that




(a)

there are reasonable grounds to believe that it is necessary to enter
and inspect the personal residence for a purpose under subsection (1),
and




(b)

the resident has refused to allow the registrar to enter and inspect
the personal residence or there are reasonable grounds to believe that
the resident will refuse entry and inspection.




(5)

The registrar must not use force to execute a warrant issued under
subsection (4) unless the use of force is specifically authorized by
the warrant.




(6)

Despite subsection (3), the registrar may enter and inspect the
personal residence of a resident if there are reasonable grounds to
believe that there is an immediate risk to the health or safety of the
resident.






Powers in relation to unregistered premises




25.2

(1)


In this section:



"dwelling unit"

means the part of unregistered premises that is the personal residence
of a resident;



"non-dwelling area"

means the part of unregistered premises that does not include dwelling
units;


"resident"
means a person who resides at unregistered premises;



"unregistered premises"

means a premises that is not registered and is being used or is
intended to be used as an assisted living residence described in
paragraph (a) of the definition of "assisted living residence".




(2)

Subject to subsections (3) and (4), if there are reasonable grounds to
believe that a premises is an unregistered premises or that there is a
risk to the health or safety of a resident, the registrar may exercise
the following powers:




(a)

enter and inspect any part of the unregistered premises;




(b)

require the owner of the non-dwelling area or occupant having control
of the non-dwelling area to produce for inspection or for the purpose
of obtaining copies or extracts the financial and other records that
can reasonably be presumed to contain information relevant to the
purpose for entering the unregistered premises;




(c)

request from the owner of the non-dwelling area, the occupant having
control of the non-dwelling area or the staff of either full
information respecting




(i)

the purpose for which the unregistered premises is being used or is
intended to be used,




(ii)

the operations, residents and staff at the premises,




(iii)

the services being provided to residents at the premises, and




(iv)

the health and safety of residents;




(d)

make a record of matters described in paragraph (c) and of the
condition of the unregistered premises.




(3)

The registrar must not enter and inspect a non-dwelling area of
unregistered premises and must not exercise the powers under
subsection (2) (b), (c) and (d) in respect of those unregistered
premises unless




(a)

the owner of the non-dwelling area or occupant having control of the
non-dwelling area consents, or




(b)

the entry, inspection and exercise of those powers are authorized by a
warrant issued under subsection (5).




(4)

The registrar must not enter and inspect a dwelling unit unless




(a)

the resident of the dwelling unit consents, or




(b)

the entry and inspection are authorized by a warrant issued under
subsection (5).




(5)

A justice may issue a warrant authorizing the registrar to enter and
inspect unregistered premises, including a dwelling unit, and exercise
the powers under subsection (2) (b), (c) and (d) if satisfied by
evidence given under oath that




(a)

there are reasonable grounds to believe that a premises is an
unregistered premises or that there is a risk to the health or safety
of a resident, and




(b)

the appropriate consent referred to in subsection (3) (a) or (4) (a)
has been refused or there are reasonable grounds to believe that the
consent will be refused.




(6)

The registrar must not use force to execute a warrant issued under
subsection (5) unless the use of force is specifically authorized by
the warrant.




(7)

Despite subsections (3) and (4), the registrar may exercise the powers
under subsection (2) if there are reasonable grounds to believe that
there is an immediate risk to the health or safety of a resident.






Copies admissible in evidence




25.3


A copy or an extract obtained under section 25.1 or 25.2, certified as
a true copy of or extract from the original by the registrar, is
admissible in evidence to the same extent as, and has the same
evidentiary value as, the record of which it is a copy or from which
it is an extract.






Publication of registration information




25.4

(1)


Within 30 days after registering an assisted living residence, the
registrar must publish on an official website all of the following
information:




(a)

the registrant's name;




(b)

the name and address of the registrant's assisted living residence.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), the registrar is not required to publish the
address of a registrant's assisted living residence if




(a)

the registrant applies for an exemption from that requirement, and




(b)

the registrar is satisfied that publishing the address would present a
risk to the health or safety of residents in the registrant's assisted
living residence.






Publication of reports respecting registered residence




25.5

(1)


Within a prescribed period after completing an inspection of a
registered assisted living residence, the registrar must publish on an
official website a report summarizing




(a)

the findings of the inspection, and




(b)

the actions, if any, taken or to be taken in response to those
findings by the registrar and the registrant.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), the registrar is not required to publish
information under that subsection if the inspection is in response to
a complaint that the registrar finds to be frivolous, vexatious or
unsubstantiated.




(3)

The registrar must promptly remove information respecting inspections
made in response to complaints, published under this section, once 5
years have passed since publication.




(4)

If subsection (3) does not apply, the registrar may remove information
that was published under this section once 5 years have passed since
publication.






Publication of reports respecting unregistered premises




25.6

(1)


Within a prescribed period after finding, on completion of an
inspection, that a person is operating an unregistered premises within
the meaning of section 25.2, the registrar must publish on an official
website all of the following information:




(a)

the name of the person found to be operating an unregistered premises;




(b)

the name and address of the unregistered premises;




(c)

a report summarizing




(i)

the findings of the inspection, and




(ii)

the actions, if any, taken or to be taken in response to those
findings by the registrar and the person found to be operating an
unregistered premises.




(2)

Within a prescribed period after completing a follow-up inspection of
a premises that was previously the subject of publication under
subsection (1), the registrar must publish on an official website a
report summarizing




(a)

the findings of the follow-up inspection, and




(b)

the actions, if any, taken in response to the findings of the
follow-up inspection by the registrar and the person found to be
operating an unregistered premises.




(3)

The registrar must promptly remove information that was published
under this section if the assisted living residence is subsequently
registered.




(4)

If subsection (3) does not apply, the registrar may remove information
that was published under this section once 5 years have passed since
publication.






Publication generally




25.7

(1)


The registrar must, if required by the regulations, publish on an
official website




(a)

information that is in addition to that required to be published under
sections 25.4 to 25.6, and




(b)

information respecting registered and unregistered assisted living
residences generally.




(2)

If the registrar is required under this Act to publish information on
an official website, the registrar must do so in accordance with the
regulations, if any.






Operating an assisted living residence




26

(1)


A person must not operate an assisted living residence that is not
registered under section 25 (1).




(2) to (4)

[Repealed 2016-13-10.]




(5)

A registrant must ensure that the assisted living residence is
operated in a manner that does not jeopardize the health or safety of
its residents.




(6)

[Repealed 2016-13-10.]






Persons not allowed to reside in an assisted living residence




26.1

(1)


A registrant of an assisted living residence must not allow a person
to reside in the residence if the person




(a)

is unable to make, on their own behalf, decisions that are necessary
to live safely,




(b)

cannot recognize an emergency, take steps to protect themselves in an
emergency or follow directions in an emergency,




(c)

behaves in a manner that jeopardizes the health or safety of others,
or




(d)

requires, on a regular basis, unscheduled professional health
services.




(2)

Subsection (1) (a) does not apply to a person in the following
situations:




(a)

the spouse of the person




(i)

resides together with the person in the assisted living residence, and




(ii)

is able to make the decisions referred to in subsection (1) (a) on
behalf of that person;




(b)

the spouse referred to in paragraph (a) of this subsection is
temporarily absent from the assisted living residence and another
adult




(i)

resides together with the person in the assisted living residence
during the absence of the spouse, and




(ii)

is able to make the decisions referred to in subsection (1) (a) on
behalf of that person.






Prohibition against interfering with registrar




26.2


A person must not interfere with, hinder or obstruct the registrar
when the registrar is exercising a power or performing a duty under
this Act.






Suspension or cancellation of registration




27


The registrar may suspend or cancel a registration, attach conditions
to a registration or vary the conditions of a registration if, in the
opinion of the registrar, the registrant




(a)

no longer complies with this Act or the regulations,




(b)

has contravened a relevant enactment of British Columbia or of Canada,
or




(c)

has contravened a condition of the registration.






Summary action




27.1


The registrar may suspend the registration of an assisted living
residence, attach conditions to the registration, or vary conditions
of that registration, without notice, if the registrar has reasonable
grounds to believe that there is an immediate risk to the health or
safety of a resident.






Reconsideration




28

(1)


In this section:


"action"
, in relation to a registration, means




(a)

a refusal of a registration under section 25,




(a.1)

an attachment of conditions under section 25 (3), or




(b)

a suspension or cancellation, an imposition of conditions or a
variation of conditions under section 27;



"summary action"

means a suspension of a registration, an attachment of conditions to
the registration, or a variation of those conditions under section
27.1;



"written response"

means a written response referred to in subsection (2) (b).




(2)

Thirty days before taking an action or as soon as practicable after
taking a summary action, the registrar must give the registrant or
applicant for registration




(a)

written reasons for the action or summary action, and




(b)

written notice that the registrant or applicant for registration may
give a written response to the registrar setting out reasons why the
registrar should act under subsection (3) (a) or (b) respecting the
action or summary action.




(3)

On receipt of a written response, the registrar may, to give proper
effect to section 25, 27 or 27.1 in the circumstances,




(a)

delay or suspend the implementation of an action or a summary action
until the registrar makes a decision under paragraph (b), or




(b)

confirm, rescind, vary or substitute for the action or summary action.




(4)

The registrar must not act under subsection (3) (a) unless the
registrar is satisfied that




(a)

further time is needed to consider the written response,




(b)

the written response sets out facts or arguments that, if confirmed,
would establish reasonable grounds for the registrar to act under
subsection (3) (b), and




(c)

it is reasonable to conclude that




(i)

if the delay or suspension is granted, the health or safety of no
resident will be placed at risk, and




(ii)

the registrant or applicant for registration will suffer a significant
loss during the proposed delay or suspension, if the delay or
suspension is not granted.




(5)

The registrar must give written reasons to the registrant or applicant
for registration on acting or declining to act under subsection (3).




(6)

A registrant or applicant for registration may not give the registrar
a further written response concerning an action or summary action on
or after receipt of written reasons under subsection (5) concerning
the action or summary action.






Certain inducements prohibited




28.1

(1)


In this section:



"personal representative"

includes the following:




(a)

an executor within the meaning of the

Wills, Estates and Succession Act

;




(b)

a representative under the

Representation Agreement Act

;




(c)

a trustee of an estate or part of an estate under administration;




(d)

an attorney acting under a power of attorney;




(e)

a committee under the

Patients Property Act

;


"registrant"
includes an officer or director of the registrant and an agent,
designate or employee of the registrant.




(2)

A registrant must not do any of the following:




(a)

persuade or induce, or attempt to persuade or induce, a resident to




(i)

make or alter a will,




(ii)

make a gift,




(iii)

provide a benefit for the registrant, the registrant's spouse,
relative or friend, or




(iv)

conduct the financial affairs of the resident for the benefit of the
registrant, the registrant's spouse, relative or friend;




(b)

require that a person who applies to reside in an assisted living
residence, as a condition of becoming a resident, make any payment or
donation other than as specified in a written contract;




(c)

act under the authority of a power of attorney or enduring power of
attorney under the

Power of Attorney Act

, granted to the registrant by a resident;




(d)

act as a personal representative of the estate of a resident or former
resident, unless the registrant is a child, parent or spouse of the
resident or former resident;




(e)

act as a representative under an agreement made under the

Representation Agreement Act

by a resident or former resident.




(3)

A provision of a will, an alteration of a will, a gift, a provision of
a benefit or another measure described in subsection (2) (a) (i) to
(iv) is void if




(a)

it confers a benefit on the registrant or the registrant's spouse,
relative or friend, and




(b)

the Public Guardian and Trustee has not given written consent to it.




(4)

A power of attorney or enduring power of attorney as described in
subsection (2) (c), or a disposition made under either of them, is
void unless the registrant is a child, parent or spouse of the
resident.




(5)

For the purposes of subsection (3) (a), a benefit conferred by a will,
an alteration of a will, a gift, a provision of a benefit or another
measure described in subsection (2) (a) (i) to (iv) is deemed to be
conferred at the time the will, alteration, gift or provision is made
or the other measure is taken.






Protection for persons who report abuse




28.2

(1)


In this section,
"report of abuse"
means a report made in good faith that a registrant or an employee or
agent of a registrant has committed abuse against a resident.




(2)

No action or other proceeding may be brought against a person for
making a report of abuse.




(3)

A registrant must not dismiss, suspend, demote, discipline, harass or
otherwise disadvantage an employee or agent of the registrant, or deny
the employee or agent a benefit, for making a report of abuse.




(4)

A registrant or other person must not interrupt, discontinue or
otherwise adversely affect, or threaten to interrupt, discontinue or
otherwise adversely affect, service to a resident as a result of




(a)

a report of abuse, or




(b)

a suggested or stated intention to make a report of abuse.




Part 4 — General





Appeals to the board




29

(1)


The Community Care and Assisted Living Appeal Board is continued
consisting of individuals appointed after a merit-based process as
follows:




(a)

a member appointed and designated by the Lieutenant Governor in
Council as the chair;




(b)

other members appointed by the Lieutenant Governor in Council after
consultation with the chair.




(1.1)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may designate one of the members as
vice chair after consultation with the chair.




(1.2)

[Repealed 2015-10-50.]




(2)

A licensee, an applicant for a licence, a holder of a certificate
under section 8, an applicant for a certificate under section 8, a
registrant or an applicant for registration may appeal to the board in
the prescribed manner within 30 days of receiving notification that




(a)

the minister has appointed an administrator under section 23,




(b)

a medical health officer has acted or declined to act under section 17
(3) (b),




(c)

the registrar has acted or declined to act under section 28 (3) (b),
or




(d)

a person has refused to issue a certificate, suspended or cancelled a
certificate or attached terms or conditions to a certificate under
section 8.




(3)

Within 30 days after a decision is made under section 16 to grant an
exemption from this Act and the regulations, the decision may be
appealed to the board under this section by




(a)

a person in care or the agent or personal representative of a person
in care, or




(b)

a spouse, relative or friend of a person in care.




(4)

A fee paid by an applicant to initiate an appeal under subsection (2)
or (3) must be remitted to the applicant if the board grants the
appeal.




(5)

The person whose action described in subsection (2) is being appealed
is a party to the appeal proceedings.




(6)

The board may not stay or suspend a decision unless it is satisfied,
on summary application, that a stay or suspension would not risk the
health or safety of a person in care.




(7) to (10)

[Repealed 2004-45-79.]




(11)

The board must receive evidence and argument as if a proceeding before
the board were a decision of first instance but the applicant bears
the burden of proving that the decision under appeal was not
justified.




(12)

The board may confirm, reverse or vary a decision under appeal, or may
send the matter back for reconsideration, with or without directions,
to the person whose decision is under appeal.




(13)

[Repealed 2003-47-17.]




(14) and (15)

[Repealed 2004-45-79.]






Application of
Administrative Tribunals Act




29.1


The following provisions of the

Administrative Tribunals Act

apply to the board:




(a)

Part 1
[Interpretation and Application]
;




(b)

Part 2
[Appointments]
;




(c)

Part 3
[Clustering]
;




(d)

Part 4
[Practice and Procedure]
, except the following:




(i)

section 21
[notice of hearing by publication]
;




(ii)

section 23
[notice of appeal (exclusive of prescribed fee)]
;




(e)

section 44

[tribunal without jurisdiction over constitutional questions]

;




(f)

section 46.2

[limited jurisdiction and discretion to decline jurisdiction to
apply the Human Rights Code]

;




(g)

section 47 (1) (c) and (2)
[power to award costs of tribunal]
;




(h)

section 48
[maintenance of order at hearings]
;




(i)

section 49

[contempt proceeding for uncooperative witness or other person]

;




(j)

Part 7
[Decisions]
;




(k)

section 55
[compulsion protection]
;




(l)

section 57
[time limit for judicial review]
;




(m)

section 58
[standard of review with privative clause]
;




(n)

section 59.1
[surveys]
;




(o)

section 59.2
[reporting]
;




(p)

Part 10
[Miscellaneous]
, except section 62
[application of Act to BC Review Board]
.






Repealed




30-31


[Repealed 2004-45-80.]






Exclusive jurisdiction of board




31.1

(1)


The board has exclusive jurisdiction to inquire into, hear and
determine all those matters and questions of fact, law and discretion
arising or required to be determined in an appeal under section 29 and
to make any order permitted to be made.




(2)

A decision or order of the board on a matter in respect of which the
board has exclusive jurisdiction is final and conclusive and is not
open to question or review in any court.






Immunity




32

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), no legal proceeding for damages lies or may
be commenced or maintained against the director of licensing, the
registrar, a medical health officer or a member of the board or a
person acting on behalf or under the direction of any of them because
of anything done or omitted




(a)

in the performance or intended performance of any duty under this Act,
or




(b)

in the exercise or intended exercise of any power under this Act.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply to a person referred to in that
subsection in relation to anything done or omitted by that person in
bad faith.




(3)

Subsection (1) does not absolve the government, a health authority or
an employer from vicarious liability arising out of anything done or
omitted by a person referred to in that subsection for which the
government, health authority or employer would be vicariously liable
if this section were not in force.




(4)

A member of the board is not, in a civil action to which the member is
not a party, required to testify or produce evidence about records or
information obtained in the discharge of duties under this Act.






Offence and penalty




33

(1)


A person who contravenes section 5, 6, 18 (2) or (3), 26 (1) or 28.1
(2) or a term or condition attached to a licence commits an offence.




(2)

A person who commits an offence under subsection (1) is liable to a
fine of up to $10 000.




(3)

If an offence under subsection (1) is of a continuing nature, each day
that the offence continues constitutes a separate offence.






Offence Act




33.1


Section 5 of the

Offence Act

does not apply to this Act or the regulations.






Power to make regulations




34

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
section 41 of the

Interpretation Act

.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations respecting community care facilities as follows:




(a)

prescribing how an application for a licence to operate a community
care facility must be made to a medical health officer, and the form
and content of the application;




(b)

prescribing programs for the purposes of paragraph (a) of the
definition of "care" in section 1;




(c)

prescribing residential programs for the purposes of paragraph (b) of
the definition of "care" in section 1;




(d)

prescribing the minimum requirements that the applicant and the
community care facility must meet before a medical health officer can
issue the licence for which an application is made;




(e)

prescribing standards of construction for, and the facilities,
equipment and furnishings that must be contained in, community care
facilities;




(f)

prescribing the duties and responsibilities of a licensee and the
licensee's employees and managers;




(g)

prescribing the training, experience and other qualifications required
for licensees and their employees and managers;




(h)

prescribing for the purposes of section 8, who may issue certificates,
who may suspend, cancel or add terms and conditions to a certificate
and what practices and procedures must be followed for these purposes;




(h.1)

for the purposes of section 8, setting out the qualifications for
certification;




(i)

prescribing the records required to be kept by a licensee and the
reports to be submitted to the medical health officer or the director
of licensing;




(j)

prescribing the services and programs that licensees must or may
provide for persons in care and the standards that must be met in the
delivery and administration of those programs and services;




(k)

prescribing the extent of physical, mental or emotional disabilities
of persons that a licensee may accept, accommodate or care for in a
community care facility;




(l)

prescribing the minimum and maximum age, and the maximum number, of
persons who may be accepted, accommodated or cared for in different
classes of community care facilities;




(m)

prescribing the maximum number of hours that a person may be accepted,
accommodated or cared for in different classes of community care
facilities;




(n)

limiting the conditions of admission that a licensee may require of a
person seeking admission to a community care facility and the
restrictions that a licensee may impose on a person in care;




(o)

respecting the incidents that a licensee must report and all matters
relating to those reports;




(p)

prescribing the circumstances in which an exemption from a requirement
of this Act or the regulations may be granted under section 16;




(q)

prescribing the length of time for which a licence or class of
licences may be valid;




(r)

prescribing the manner in which a licensee must display a licence;




(s)

prescribing the reports that must be made by a health authority to the
director of licensing;




(t)

prescribing the collection, use or disclosure of non-personal
information by the director of licensing or a health authority;




(u)

prescribing the powers, duties and responsibilities of an
administrator appointed under section 23;




(v)

prescribing the fees that must be paid to the government or a person
designated by the minister for




(i)

an application for a licence,




(ii)

a licence,




(iii)

an application for a certificate under section 8, or




(iv)

a certificate under section 8;




(w)

prescribing a province for the purposes of section 11 (2) (b) (i).




(x)

[Repealed 2016-13-16.]




(3)

Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations respecting assisted living residences as follows:




(a)

prescribing a type of assistance or support for the purposes of the
definition of "assisted living services" in section 1;




(a.1)

prescribing the form and content of an application for registration of
an assisted living residence;




(b)

prescribing the fees that must be paid to the government or a person
designated by the minister for




(i)

an application for a registration, or




(ii)

a registration;




(c)

prescribing the length of time for which a registration or class of
registrations may be valid;




(c.1)

prescribing the duties and responsibilities of a registrant and of the
registrant's employees and managers;




(c.2)

prescribing the training, experience and other qualifications required
for registrants and their employees and managers;




(d)

prescribing the manner in which a registrant must display a
registration or the registrar's telephone number;




(e)

prescribing the health and safety standards that must be met in the
delivery of services at an assisted living residence;




(f)

prescribing the records required to be kept by a registrant and the
reports to be submitted to the registrar;




(g)

respecting the incidents that a registrant must report and all matters
relating to those reports.




(4)

Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations as follows:




(a)

[Repealed 2016-13-16.]




(b)

establishing the procedures that must be followed before a licence or
registration is suspended or cancelled;




(c)

prescribing the practices and procedures, including the fees for
filing an appeal, respecting the board under section 29 or a panel of
the board;




(c.1)

for the purposes of one or more of sections 15.1 to 15.4 and 25.4 to
25.7,




(i)

prescribing additional information that must be published,




(ii)

prescribing periods for the publication of information, including
setting schedules for publication, and




(iii)

respecting the form and content of publication, including requiring
the use of keywords or other tools to facilitate public searches;




(d)

defining a word or expression used but not defined in this Act.




(5)

In making regulations under this section, the Lieutenant Governor in
Council may




(a)

establish one or more classes of licences or registrations,




(b)

establish one or more classes of community care facilities or assisted
living residences,




(c)

make different provisions for one or more classes of community care
facilities, licences, assisted living residences or registrations, and




(d)

exempt a community care facility, a class of community care
facilities, an assisted living residence or a class of assisted living
residences for the purposes of section 2.




(6)

In making regulations under subsection (2) (h.1), the Lieutenant
Governor in Council may do one or more of the following in relation to
the person who issues certificates for the purposes of section 8:




(a)

delegate a matter;




(b)

confer a discretion;




(c)

set out considerations that the person may take into account when a
matter is delegated under paragraph (a) or a discretion is conferred
under paragraph (b).




(7)

In making a designation for the purposes of paragraph (b) of the
definition of "community care facility", the Lieutenant Governor in
Council may do the following:




(a)

designate a class of premises;




(b)

provide that a designated premises or class of premises is subject
only to one or more provisions of this Act and the regulations;




(c)

modify one or more provisions of the regulations as the Lieutenant
Governor in Council considers advisable.




Consequential Amendments and Repeals









[Note: See Table of Legislative Changes for the status of sections
35 to 57.]









Section(s)



Affected Act




35




Cemetery and Funeral Services Act





36




Child Care BC Act





37-38




Child Care Subsidy Act





39-40




Community Care Facility Act





41




Criminal Records Review Act





42




Health Authorities Act





43





Health Care (Consent) and Care Facility (Admission) Act






44-48




Hospital Act





49




Hospital Insurance Act





50




Human Tissue Gift Act





51




Liquor Control and Licensing Act





52-53



Local Government Act




54




Medicare Protection Act





55




Mental Health Act





56-57





Pharmacists, Pharmacy Operations and Drug Scheduling Act










Commencement




58


This Act comes into force by regulation of the Lieutenant Governor in
Council.




Schedule


(Section 7)


Rights of adult persons in care


1
The rights of an adult person in care are as set out in clauses 1 to 5
of this section.


Commitment to care


1.  An adult person in care has the right to a care plan
developed

(a) specifically for the person, and

(b) on the basis of the person's unique abilities, physical, social and
emotional needs, and cultural and spiritual preferences.


Rights to health, safety and dignity


2.  An adult person in care has the right to the protection
and promotion of the person's health, safety and dignity, including a
right to all of the following:


(a) to be treated in a manner, and to live in an environment, that
promotes the person's health, safety and dignity;

(b) to be protected from abuse and neglect;

(c) to have the person's lifestyle and choices respected and supported,
and to pursue social, cultural, religious, spiritual and other
interests;


(d) to have the person's personal privacy respected, including in
relation to the person's records, bedroom, belongings and storage
spaces;


(e) to receive visitors and to communicate with visitors in private;


(f) to keep and display personal possessions, pictures and furnishings
in the person's bedroom.


Rights to participation and freedom of expression


3.  An adult person in care has the right to participate in
the person's own care and to freely express the person's views,
including a right to all of the following:


(a) to participate in the development and implementation of the person's
care plan;


(b) to establish and participate in a resident or family council to
represent the interests of persons in care;


(c) to have the person's family or representative participate on a
resident or family council on their own behalf;


(d) to have access to a fair and effective process to express concerns,
make complaints or resolve disputes within the facility;


(e) to be informed as to how to make a complaint to an authority outside
the facility;


(f) to have the person's family or representative exercise the rights
under this clause on the person's behalf.


Rights to transparency and accountability


4.  An adult person in care has the right to transparency and
accountability, including a right to all of the following:


(a) to have ready access to copies of all laws, rules and policies
affecting a service provided to the person;


(b) to have ready access to a copy of the most recent routine inspection
record made under the Act;


(c) to be informed in advance of all charges, fees and other amounts
that the person must pay for accommodation and services received through
the facility;


(d) if any part of the cost of accommodation or services is prepaid, to
receive at the time of prepayment a written statement setting out the
terms and conditions under which a refund may be made;


(e) to have the person's family or representative informed of the
matters described in this clause.


Scope of rights


5.  The rights set out in clauses 2, 3 and 4 are subject to


(a) what is reasonably practical given the physical, mental and
emotional circumstances of the person in care,


(b) the need to protect and promote the health or safety of the person
in care or another person in care, and

(c) the rights of other persons in care.

Complaints that rights have been violated


2
(1) In addition to any complaint that may be made under this Act, if a
person in care believes that the person's rights have been violated, the
person in care or a person acting on the person's behalf may submit a
complaint under the
Patient Care Quality Review Board Act
.


(2) A complaint submitted under subsection (1) is a care quality
complaint for the purposes of the
Patient Care Quality Review Board Act
.


Protection for persons in care


3
A licensee must not evict, discharge, intimidate, coerce, impose any
pecuniary or other penalty on, suspend a service to, deny a right or
benefit to or otherwise discriminate against a person in care because of
a complaint made in relation to the person in care under this Act or the
Patient Care Quality Review Board Act
.


No right to sue


4
No right of action lies, and no right of compensation exists, by reason
only of a violation of a right set out in this Schedule.



