




Electoral Reform Referendum 2018 Act
[SBC 2017] CHAPTER 22


Assented to November 30, 2017






Definitions




1


In this Act:



"chief electoral officer"

has the same meaning as in the

Election Act

;



"financial agent"

means a person who, on behalf of an opponent group or a proponent
group, receives payments and contributions under this Act, incurs
expenses and distributes any amount received;



"opponent group"

, in relation to the referendum, means an individual who or
organization that




(a)

opposes a proportional representation voting system, and




(b)

is established as an opponent group in accordance with the regulations
for the purpose of receiving payment under section 4;



"proponent group"

, in relation to the referendum, means an individual who or
organization that




(a)

supports a proportional representation voting system, and




(b)

is established as a proponent group in accordance with the regulations
for the purpose of receiving payment under section 4;


"referendum"
means the referendum required to be conducted under section 2;



"voting package"

means the set of materials, prescribed in the regulations, for the
conduct of the referendum;



"voting system"

means a system for electing members of the Legislative Assembly.






Referendum on electoral reform required




2

(1)


A referendum respecting a proportional representation voting system
must be conducted throughout British Columbia.




(2)

For the referendum to be conducted, the Lieutenant Governor in Council
must, by regulation,




(a)

state the question or questions that will be put to the electorate at
the referendum,




(b)

specify the date on which distribution of the voting packages must
commence, and




(c)

specify the date on which voting in the referendum closes, which must
be no later than November 30, 2018.






Offence Act
and
Referendum Act
do not apply




3

(1)


Section 5 of the

Offence Act

does not apply to this Act or the regulations.




(2)

The

Referendum Act

does not apply to the referendum.






Funding for opponent and proponent groups




4


Subject to the regulations, the chief electoral officer may make
payments, to be used for the purpose of opposing or supporting a
proportional representation voting system, to financial agents acting
on behalf of one or more opponent or proponent groups.






Referendum to be conducted by mail-in ballot




5


The referendum must be conducted by distribution of a voting package
in accordance with the regulations.






Elections BC responsible for administration of referendum




6


The chief electoral officer is responsible for conducting the
referendum in accordance with the regulations.






Results of referendum count




7


The chief electoral officer must




(a)

report the result of the referendum to the Speaker of the Legislative
Assembly, and




(b)

announce the result of the referendum in a manner that the chief
electoral officer considers will inform the electorate of that result.






Who may vote in referendum




8

(1)


In order to vote in the referendum, an individual must




(a)

be a Canadian citizen,




(b)

be 18 years of age or older on the date on which voting in the
referendum closes,




(c)

have been a resident of British Columbia for at least 6 months
immediately before the date on which voting in the referendum closes,




(d)

be registered as a voter as defined in the

Election Act

or be qualified to register as a voter in the referendum in accordance
with the regulations, and




(e)

not be disqualified by the

Election Act

or any other enactment from voting in the referendum or be otherwise
disqualified by law.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1) (e), the following individuals are not
entitled to vote in the referendum:




(a)

the chief electoral officer and the deputy chief electoral officer;




(b)

an individual who is prohibited from voting under Part 12 of the

Election Act

.






Duty if referendum is binding




9

(0.1)


In this section,
"subsequent referendum"
means the subsequent referendum referred to in subsection (3).




(1)

The result of the referendum is binding on the government only if more
than 50% of the validly cast ballots




(a)

vote the same way on a question stated, if the question has the option
of 2 answers, or




(b)

are in favour of the same voting system, if a question has the option
of more than 2 answers.




(2)

If




(a)

the result of the referendum is binding on the government in
accordance with subsection (1), and




(b)

the ballots referred to in that subsection are in favour of adopting a
proportional representation voting system,


the government must take steps that the government considers necessary
or advisable to implement the result of the referendum, including
introducing the legislation needed to implement the proportional
representation voting system in sufficient time for that voting system
to be in place for a general election called on or after July 1, 2021.




(3)

If




(a)

the result of the referendum is binding on the government in
accordance with subsection (1), and




(b)

a proportional representation voting system is implemented,


a subsequent referendum must be conducted throughout British Columbia
after 2 general elections have been held using the proportional
representation voting system, respecting whether to continue using the
proportional representation voting system or to revert to the first
past the post voting system.




(4)

If a subsequent referendum must be conducted under subsection (3), the
date on which voting in the subsequent referendum closes must be no
later than the last day of the thirteenth month after the month in
which the general voting day of the second general election referred
to in subsection (3) falls.






Penalties respecting misuse or non-repayment of funds




10

(1)


If, by regulation under this Act, a provision of the

Election Act

or the

Recall and Initiative Act

applies in relation to the use or repayment of payments made under
section 4 of this Act, despite any penalty that would apply to a
contravention of that provision under the

Election Act

or the

Recall and Initiative Act

, a person who contravenes the provision is liable on conviction to a
fine of not more than $50 000 or to imprisonment for not more than 2
years, or both.




(2)

A person who contravenes a provision of a regulation under this Act
that relates to the use or repayment of payments made under section 4
is liable on conviction to a fine of not more than $50 000 or to
imprisonment for not more than 2 years, or both.






Appropriation




11


Administrative costs of conducting the referendum, including payments
made under section 4, must be paid out of the consolidated revenue
fund.






Regulations




12

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
section 41 of the

Interpretation Act

.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations as follows:




(a)

providing that specified provisions of the

Election Act

, the

Local Elections Campaign Financing Act

, the

Recall and Initiative Act

or the regulations under those Acts apply or do not apply to and in
relation to the referendum;




(b)

adapting any provisions of those Acts or regulations with changes that
the Lieutenant Governor in Council considers necessary or advisable.




(3)

Without limiting subsection (1) or (2), the Lieutenant Governor in
Council may make regulations that the Lieutenant Governor in Council
considers necessary or advisable respecting the referendum, including,
without limitation, respecting




(a)

the manner by which the referendum is to be conducted,




(b)

voting in the referendum,




(c)

counting the referendum vote,




(d)

advertising in relation to the referendum, and




(e)

the availability of information respecting the matters to be voted on.




(4)

In making a regulation under subsection (3) (c), the Lieutenant
Governor in Council may




(a)

if a question that is stated for the referendum has the option of more
than 2 answers, prescribe how to determine what voting system
validly cast ballots are in favour of, and




(b)

make different regulations for a question that has the option of 2
answers or a question that has the option of more than 2 answers.




(5)

Without limiting subsection (1), (2) or (3), the Lieutenant Governor
in Council may make regulations that the Lieutenant Governor in
Council considers necessary or advisable




(a)

for the purposes of payments made under section 4, including, without
limitation, respecting




(i)

the establishment of opponent groups or proponent groups,




(ii)

the making of payments to financial agents and limits on payment,




(iii)

the designation and duties of financial agents,




(iv)

obligations, restrictions, limitations or conditions in relation to
the holding, use and disbursement of payments received, and accounting
and reporting in relation to payments received,




(v)

liability of financial agents and principal officers or members of
opponent groups or proponent groups for failing to comply with the
requirements of the regulations,




(vi)

requirements of financial agents to repay amounts that were not used
by an opponent group or a proponent group, or amounts that the
financial agent knew, or ought to have known, were used for a purpose
or in a manner other than as permitted under the regulations,




(vii)

the publication of any matter in relation to a payment made to
opponent groups or proponent groups, and




(viii)

applications to the court for relief from failing to comply with one
or more requirements of a regulation made under this paragraph, and




(b)

without limiting paragraph (a), respecting the making and receipt of
payments and contributions, other than payments under section 4, and
the incurring of expenses, in relation to the referendum by any
individual or organization, including opponent groups and proponent
groups, including, without limitation, respecting requirements of
financial agents to pay amounts that were not used by an opponent
group or a proponent group.




(6)

A regulation made under the authority of subsection (5) (a) (vi) or
(b) may provide that amounts that must be repaid or paid under that
regulation constitute a debt due to the government by financial
agents.




(7)

Without limiting subsection (1), (2), (3) or (5), the Lieutenant
Governor in Council may make regulations as follows:




(a)

prescribing offences and penalties for failure to comply with the
regulations;




(b)

respecting any matter for which regulations are contemplated by this
Act;




(c)

conferring a discretion on the chief electoral officer.






Repeals




13

(1)


The

Electoral Reform Referendum 2009 Act

, S.B.C. 2008, c. 9, is repealed.




(2)

The following regulations are repealed:




(a)

the Referendum Regulation, B.C. Reg. 384/90;




(b)

the Electoral Reform Referendum Regulation, B.C. Reg. 47/2005;




(c)

the Electoral Reform Referendum 2009 Act Regulation, B.C. Reg.
266/2008;




(d)

the HST (Harmonized Sales Tax) Referendum Regulation, B.C. Reg.
68/2011;




(e)

the Plebiscite 2015 (Regional Transportation System Funding)
Regulation, B.C. Reg. 21/2015.






Commencement




14


This Act comes into force on the date of Royal Assent.




