




Emergency Communications Corporations Act
[SBC 1997] CHAPTER 47


Assented to July 30, 1997






Definitions




1


In this Act:



"emergency communications corporation"

means a corporation that is




(a)

a company within the meaning of the

Business Corporations Act

, and




(b)

designated as an emergency communications corporation under section 2
of this Act;



"emergency services agency"

means




(a)

the Royal Canadian Mounted Police,




(b)

an organization operating a police force or police department
providing police services to the public, including a municipal police
board under the

Police Act

,




(c)

an organization operating a fire department providing fire protection
services to the public,




(d)

British Columbia Emergency Health Services under the

Emergency Health Services Act

, and




(e)

any other organization designated by regulation;



"government agency"

means an agent of, or a corporation that is wholly owned by, the
Provincial government, the federal government, a municipality or a
regional district;



"members' agreement"

means an agreement in relation to an emergency communications
corporation, or a corporation that proposes to become an emergency
communications corporation, between parties who are or intend to
become members of the corporation or between the corporation and one
or more of those parties;



"municipality"

includes the City of Vancouver.






Designation of emergency communications corporation




2


The minister may, by order, designate a corporation as an emergency
communications corporation if




(a)

the purposes of the corporation are those required or permitted under
section 3, and




(b)

the minister has reviewed and approved the members' agreement for the
corporation.






Purposes of emergency communications corporation




3

(1)


An emergency communications corporation must have as its primary
purpose the provision of emergency communications and related services
to its members.




(2)

An emergency communications corporation may have as additional
purposes




(a)

the provision of communications and related services, for public
safety and public service, to municipalities, regional districts, the
Provincial government, the federal government, government agencies and
emergency services agencies, whether or not they are members, and




(b)

any other purposes prescribed by regulation under section 14 (2) (b)
for the corporation.






Members and members' agreements




4

(1)


Without limiting who may be a member of an emergency communications
corporation, municipalities, regional districts, emergency services
agencies and the Provincial government may enter into agreements for
membership in an emergency communications corporation.




(2)

As limits on the authority of a municipality or regional district
under subsection (1),




(a)

the council or board must enter into a members' agreement by bylaw,
and




(b)

in the case of a regional district, it must have the authority under
establishing bylaw or letters patent to provide the service to which
its membership relates.




(3)

A municipality or regional district may become a member of an
emergency communications corporation without the approval of the
Inspector of Municipalities or without authorization by regulation,
and sections 185
[municipal ownership of corporations]
of the

Community Charter

and 265
[regional district ownership]
of the

Local Government Act

do not apply.




(4)

The members' agreement of an emergency communications corporation may
only be amended with the approval of the minister and in accordance
with that agreement.






Special corporate rules




5

(1)


Section 154 (2) of the

Business Corporations Act

do not apply to an emergency communications corporation.




(2)

Despite section 136 (1) of the

Business Corporations Act

, the directors of an emergency communications corporation are
responsible for supervising the general management of the business and
affairs of the emergency communications corporation.




(3)

[Repealed 2003-70-130.]




(4)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may, by regulation, provide that
additional provisions of the

Business Corporations Act

do not apply to a specified emergency communications corporation,
subject to any alternative requirements, restrictions or conditions
established by the regulation.




(5)

The memorandum, notice of articles and articles of an emergency
communications corporation may only be amended with the approval of
the minister and in accordance with the

Business Corporations Act

.




(6)

Within 60 days after the annual general meeting of an emergency
communications corporation, the corporation must provide to the
minister a copy of its annual financial statement under section 198 of
the

Business Corporations Act

and the auditor's report on that financial statement.






Corporation must hold transferred radio licences




6

(1)


Subject to the applicable federal legislation, a member of an
emergency communications corporation must assign or transfer to the
emergency communications corporation all licences and authorities for
radio spectra held by the member that are related to the services that
the corporation provides to the member.




(2)

Subject to the applicable federal legislation, an emergency
communications corporation




(a)

must acquire and hold the licences or authorities for radio spectra
assigned or transferred under subsection (1), and




(b)

must manage and allocate the use of those spectra.






Members must pay assessed rates




7


Members of an emergency communications corporation must pay to the
corporation all rates for operating expenses and capital expenditures
that are assessed by the corporation.






Borrowing by corporation




8

(1)


An emergency communications corporation may only borrow money required




(a)

for capital purposes related to the purposes of the corporation
required or permitted under section 3, or




(b)

to meet its current operating expenses before its revenue, from all
sources, to pay for those expenses has been received.




(2)

The Municipal Finance Authority of British Columbia may provide
financing to an emergency communications corporation for borrowing
authorized under subsection (1).




(3)

For the purposes of financing under subsection (2), the

Municipal Finance Authority Act

, except section 24, applies to an emergency communications
corporation as if it were a regional district, except that no loan
authorization bylaw or security issuing bylaw of the corporation is
required for the borrowing.






Access to information




9

(1)


For the purposes of the

Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act

, the records of an emergency communications corporation relating to
any services provided to a member of the corporation are deemed to be
the records of that member.




(2)

An emergency communications corporation must provide a member with
copies of records of the member under subsection (1), in order to
allow the member to comply with the

Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act

.




(3)

If subsection (2) applies in relation to a record, a person does not
have a right of access under the

Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act

to the record as being in the custody or under the control of the
emergency communications corporation and, despite that Act, the person
has that right only through written request to the member to whom the
copy is to be provided under subsection (2).




(4)

Despite the

Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act

, a person does not have a right of access under that Act to a record
of, or in the custody or under the control of, an emergency
communications corporation that relates to services provided by the
corporation to the Royal Canadian Mounted Police.




(5)

A members' agreement for an emergency communications corporation is
void to the extent of any conflict between the agreement and the

Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act

as it applies under this section.






Immunity from legal action




10

(1)


In this section,
"protected person"
means the following:




(a)

an emergency communications corporation;




(b)

a current or former member of an emergency communications corporation;




(c)

a current or former director, employee or agent of an emergency
communications corporation.




(2)

No action lies and no proceedings may be brought against a protected
person, and a protected person is not liable for any loss or damages
suffered by any person, in relation to anything done or omitted to be
done by the protected person in relation to the provision of or
failure to provide emergency communications services by an emergency
communications corporation.




(3)

As an exception, the immunity from legal action otherwise provided to
a person by subsection (2) does not apply if the person has been
guilty of malice or wilful misconduct in relation to the subject
matter of the action.






Labour relations successorship




11

(1)


The establishment of an emergency communications corporation is to be
considered a successorship for the purposes of section 35 of the

Labour Relations Code

and the Labour Relations Board has the authority provided by that
section to determine any matters related to the successorship
including, without limiting this, the authority to determine the
question of trade union representation.




(2)

A representation vote under the

Labour Relations Code

respecting a matter referred to in subsection (1) must be conducted in
a manner that the Labour Relations Board considers fair and
reasonable.




(3)

For the purposes of subsection (2), the Labour Relations Board




(a)

may allow all employees that the Board considers will likely be
affected within a reasonable time period by the successorship to
participate in the vote, whether or not those employees have
transferred to the emergency communications corporation by the date of
the vote, and




(b)

in order to provide alternative bargaining agent choices to the
employees entitled to vote, may permit trade unions affected by the
successorship to establish a new trade union in order to be placed on
the ballot.






Orders in the public interest




12

(1)


If the Lieutenant Governor in Council considers this necessary in the
public interest, the Lieutenant Governor in Council may make any order
in relation to an emergency communications corporation that the
Lieutenant Governor in Council considers appropriate.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), an order under that subsection may
provide that a resolution or other decision of an emergency
communications corporation is void to the extent provided in the
order, and may make other provisions in place of those declared void.






Conflicts with this Act or a regulation or order under this Act




13

(1)


If there is a conflict between this Act or a regulation under this Act
and a provision of the

Business Corporations Act

, this Act or the regulation under this Act prevails.




(2)

If there is a conflict between




(a)

this Act or a regulation or order under this Act, and




(b)

a provision of the memorandum, notice of articles or articles of an
emergency communications corporation or a provision of a members'
agreement for an emergency communications corporation,


the provision of the memorandum, notice of articles, articles or
agreement is deemed to be amended to the extent necessary to comply
with this Act or the regulation or order.






Regulation making authority




14

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
section 41 of the

Interpretation Act

.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations as follows:




(a)

designating an organization as an emergency services agency for the
purposes of section 1;




(b)

authorizing an additional purpose for an emergency communications
corporation as referred to in section 3 (2) (b);




(c)

providing for the transition or transfer of pension rights for persons
becoming employees of an emergency communications corporation.






Spent





15–17



[Consequential amendments. Spent. 1997-47-15 to 17.]




