




Justice Reform and Transparency Act
[SBC 2013] CHAPTER 7


Assented to March 14, 2013






Definitions




1


In this Act:


"council"
means the Justice and Public Safety Council established under section
2;



"justice and public safety sector"

means the justice system, including, without limitation, programs or
services, funded in whole or in part by public money, that contribute
to the administration of justice or public safety in British Columbia;



"Justice Summit"

means a meeting convened by the minister under section 9;



"qualified candidate"

means an individual who is in a senior leadership role in the
government and who has responsibility for matters relating to the
administration of justice in British Columbia or matters relating to
public safety, and includes any other individual the minister
considers to be qualified to assist in improving the performance of
the justice and public safety sector.






Justice and Public Safety Council




2


The Justice and Public Safety Council is established consisting of




(a)

a qualified candidate appointed by the minister as chair, and




(b)

other qualified candidates appointed by the minister as members.






Objects of council




3


The objects of the council are the following:




(a)

to develop, in accordance with section 5, a strategic vision for the
justice and public safety sector;




(b)

to establish a strategic plan in accordance with section 6;




(c)

[Not in force.]




(d)

to collect information on the justice and public safety sector and use
that information to assist the council in performing its functions
under this section;




(e)

to facilitate the collection and sharing by participants in the
justice and public safety sector of information needed to enhance the
ability of the participants to




(i)

ensure careful management and prudent expenditure of public resources,




(ii)

engage in evidence-based decision making,




(iii)

make informed evaluations of their performance, and




(iv)

design strategies to improve that performance;




(f)

to promote collaboration and cooperation among participants in the
justice and public safety sector;




(g)

to provide advice and recommendations to the minister and to perform
any other functions respecting the justice and public safety sector
that the minister requires.






Advisory boards




4

(1)


The minister may, at any time and from time to time, establish one or
more advisory boards to




(a)

advise the minister on matters related to the administration of
justice or public safety in British Columbia,




(b)

make recommendations to the minister as required to improve the
performance of the justice and public safety sector, and




(c)

perform any other duties the minister may direct.




(2)

The council may make recommendations to the minister respecting the
composition of an advisory board and, after considering any
recommendations made under this subsection, the minister may




(a)

appoint members of the advisory board, and




(b)

designate one member as chair and another member as vice-chair.






Justice and public safety strategic vision




5


The council must, after such consultation as the council considers
appropriate with its advisory boards, if any, and participants in the
justice and public safety sector, including, without limitation,
participants in a Justice Summit, develop a strategic vision
reflecting desired outcomes for the justice and public safety sector.






Strategic plans




6

(1)


The council must, in each fiscal year, prepare a strategic plan in
relation to the applicable period referred to in subsection (2) (a)
and must, in each strategic plan, do the following for each fiscal
year that falls within the period to which the strategic plan relates:




(a)

propose goals that advance the strategic vision referred to in section
5;




(b)

identify impediments to the achievement of the proposed goals;




(c)

propose strategies to achieve the proposed goals and to reduce or
eliminate the identified impediments;




(d)

establish performance measures by which to assess




(i)

the progress being made towards the proposed goals, and




(ii)

the effectiveness of the strategies developed to achieve those goals.




(2)

The council must ensure that a strategic plan under this section is




(a)

prepared in relation to the 3 fiscal years following the fiscal year
in which the strategic plan is required to be prepared, and




(b)

published




(i)

before the first day of the first fiscal year in relation to which the
plan is prepared, and




(ii)

in a manner that can reasonably be expected to bring the strategic
plan to the attention of the public.






Not in force




7-8


[Not in force.]






Justice Summit




9

(1)


The minister must, at least annually, convene a Justice Summit to
facilitate innovation in, and collaboration across, the justice and
public safety sector.




(2)

The minister may invite to a Justice Summit




(a)

the Chief Justice of British Columbia, the Chief Justice of the
Supreme Court and the Chief Judge of the Provincial Court and, through
them, any other members or officers of their courts that they consider
appropriate,




(b)

members of the council, and




(c)

any other individuals, including, without limitation, other
participants in the justice and public safety sector, the minister
considers to be qualified to assist in improving the performance of
the justice and public safety sector.




(3)

A Justice Summit may




(a)

review and consider initiatives and procedures undertaken in other
jurisdictions in relation to the justice system in those
jurisdictions,




(b)

provide input to the council to assist the council in creating the
strategic vision referred to in section 5,




(c)

make recommendations relating to priorities, strategies, performance
measures, procedures and new initiatives related to the justice and
public safety sector,




(d)

assess the progress being made in justice reform in British Columbia,
and




(e)

engage in any other deliberations that the Justice Summit considers
appropriate.




(4)

After the conclusion of its deliberations, a Justice Summit must
report to the minister on the outcome of those deliberations.






Memoranda of understanding




10

(1)


The Attorney General and the Chief Justice of British Columbia may
enter into a memorandum of understanding governing any matter relating
to the administration of the Court of Appeal.




(2)

The Attorney General and the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court may
enter into a memorandum of understanding governing any matter relating
to the administration of that court.




(3)

The Attorney General and the Chief Judge of the Provincial Court may
enter into a memorandum of understanding governing any matter relating
to the administration of that court.




(4)

Without limiting subsections (1) to (3), a memorandum under this
section may




(a)

address the respective roles and responsibilities of the parties to
the memorandum in the administration of the court, and




(b)

specify how those parties are to share information, promote and
measure effective court administration and report to the public.




(5)

The Attorney General may publish, in a manner that can reasonably be
expected to bring to the attention of the public, all or part of a
memorandum entered into under this section, except to the extent the
memorandum otherwise provides.






Independence not restricted




11


Nothing in this Act restricts the independence that a participant in
the justice and public safety sector has at law, including, without
limitation, judicial independence.






Section 5 of the
Offence Act
does not apply




12


Section 5 of the

Offence Act

does not apply to this Act or the regulations.




Consequential and Related Amendments









[Note: See Table of Legislative Changes for the status of sections
13 to 30.]









Section(s)





Affected Act






13-14




Judicial Compensation Act





15




Police Act





16-29




Provincial Court Act





30




Supreme Court Act









Commencement




31


This Act comes into force by regulation of the Lieutenant Governor in
Council.




