




Land Tax Deferment Act


[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 249










Definitions





1



In this Act:



"actual value"

means,






(a)


in relation
to an eligible property for a taxation year, the actual value of the
property for the taxation year as set out, at the time of filing an
application under section 5, in an assessment roll under the


Assessment Act


, and






(b)


in relation
to improvements referred to in the definition of "deferrable value"
for a taxation year, the actual value of the improvements for the
taxation year as included in the actual value of the eligible property
as set out, at the time of filing an application under section 5, in
an assessment roll under the


Assessment Act


;



"collector"

means a collector of taxes appointed under the


Community Charter


, the


Local Government Act


, the


Vancouver Charter


or the


Taxation (Rural Area) Act


;



"deferrable value"

, in relation to an eligible property for a taxation year, means the
amount by which the actual value of the eligible property for the
taxation year exceeds the actual value for the taxation year of all
improvements that are part of that property and that are not insured
under a valid fire insurance contract issued by an insurer authorized
under the


Financial Institutions Act


;



"dependent child"

means a person who is a dependent child as described in section 1.1;



"eligible property"

means






(a)


an area of
land with improvements on it, or






(b)


a
manufactured home and, if this is owned by the same person, an area of
land on which the manufactured home is located,


that, under the regulations, the minister considers is in genuine use
for residential purposes;



"improvements"

means improvements as defined in the


Assessment Act


and includes a manufactured home;



"land"

means land as
defined in the


Assessment Act


;



"manufactured home"

means any structure, whether ordinarily equipped with wheels or not,
that






(a)


is designed,
constructed or manufactured






(i)


to be moved
from one place to another by being towed or carried, and






(ii)


to provide
a dwelling house, and






(b)


is
registered under the


Manufactured Home Act


;



"owner"

means






(a)


an owner as
defined in the


Community Charter


,






(b)


the occupier
of a dwelling unit in a building, the owner of which is a corporation,
if






(i)


the
occupier of the dwelling unit owns capital stock in the corporation
equivalent in value to the dwelling unit, and






(ii)


the
dwelling unit is the principal residence of the occupier, or






(c)


the person
in whose name a manufactured home is assessable and taxable under the


Manufactured Home Tax Act


;



"parcel"

means a
lot, block or other area in which land is held, or into which land is
subdivided;



"principal residence"

means the usual place where an individual makes the individual's home;



"registered charge"

means a charge within the meaning of the


Land Title Act


that is registered or filed in a land title office;



"registered security interest"

means a security interest within the meaning of the


Personal Property Security Act


that is perfected by registration of a financing statement in the
registry under that Act;



"spouse"

means






(a)


a person who
is married to another person, or






(b)


a person who






(i)


is living
with another person in a marriage-like relationship, and






(ii)


has been
living in that relationship for a continuous period of at least 2
years;



"surviving spouse"

means a person who was the spouse of another person at the time of
death of the other person and who is not currently the spouse of
another person;



"tax"

means tax levied
by a municipality or the Crown on eligible property, but does not
include tax arrears, penalties, delinquent tax, utility user fees or
interest on any of them;



"tax Act"

means,






(a)


in relation
to eligible property that is not a manufactured home,






(i)


the


Community Charter


or the


Local Government Act


, as applicable, if the eligible property is in a municipality,






(ii)


the


Vancouver Charter


, if the eligible property is in the City of Vancouver, and






(iii)


the


Taxation (Rural Area) Act


, if the eligible property is in a rural area, or






(b)


in relation
to eligible property that is a manufactured home, the

Manufactured Home Tax Act

.








Delegation





1.01



(1)


The minister may, in writing, delegate any of the minister's powers
or duties under this Act.






(2)


A delegation
under subsection (1) may be to a named person or to a class of
persons.








Dependent child





1.1



(1)


A person is a dependent child for the purposes of this Act if the
person






(a)


is dependent
for financial support on an owner of eligible property, and






(b)


is in a
class of persons






(i)


described
in subsection (2), (3) or (4) of this section, or






(ii)


included
by regulation under section 18 (2) (h).






(2)


A person who
is, at any time in the calendar year in which an application is made
for an agreement under section 2, under the age of 18 years is a
dependent child if one of the following circumstances applies:






(a)


the person
lives full time with the owner in the eligible property;






(b)


the person
lives, under a shared parenting arrangement, at least part time with
the owner in the eligible property;






(c)


the person
does not live with the owner in the eligible property, but the owner
pays support for the person.






(3)


A person who
is a child or stepchild of an owner of eligible property is a
dependent child if one of the following circumstances applies:






(a)


the minister
is satisfied that, at any time in the calendar year in which an
application is made for an agreement under section 2, the person is or
will be enrolled at an educational institution;






(b)


the person
is a person with disabilities as defined in the regulations.






(4)


A person is
a dependent child if






(a)


an agreement
was made previously under section 2 on the basis of the person being a
dependent child,






(b)


the owner of
eligible property continues to owe an amount under the agreement, and






(c)


either of
the circumstances described in subsection (3) (a) or (b) applies to
the person.






(5)


Despite
subsections (1) to (4), a person is not a dependent child if the
person is within a class of persons excluded by regulation under
section 18 (2) (h).








Agreement to defer taxes





2



(1)


Subject to this Act and regulations, the minister may make an
agreement with an owner permitting the owner to defer paying all or
part of the tax payable on the eligible property during the term of
the agreement.






(2)


If the
minister makes an agreement under subsection (1), every Act,
regulation and municipal bylaw






(a)


respecting
taxation of the eligible property referred to in the agreement, or






(b)


respecting
enforcement and collection of tax on that property,


is subject to the agreement until the agreement is terminated under
this Act or under the agreement.






(3)


If there is
a conflict or inconsistency between an Act, regulation or municipal
bylaw and the agreement, the agreement prevails and the Act,
regulation or bylaw is suspended and of no effect to the extent of the
conflict or inconsistency.








No agreement for Crown or municipal land used
by others





2.1



The minister may not make an agreement under section 2 with an owner
of eligible property in respect of tax payable for the 2012 or a
subsequent taxation year if, in relation to the eligible property that
is land, the owner holds or occupies that land in the manner referred
to in section 228

[taxation of Crown land used by others]

or
229

[taxation of municipal land used by others]

of the


Community Charter


.








Limitation





3



(1)


Despite section 2, each eligible property must be the subject of a
separate agreement.






(2)


[Repealed
2004-40-26.]






(3)


An owner
must not assign the owner's interest in the agreement or rights or
benefits under it, and a purported assignment is void.








Termination of agreement





4



(1)


An agreement made under section 2 terminates






(a)


on the date
the eligible property described in the agreement is disposed of,






(b)


[Repealed
2004-40-27.]






(c)


if tax on
eligible property described in the agreement becomes tax in arrear or
delinquent tax under the appropriate tax Act for a period of 6 months,
or for a longer time determined by the minister,






(d)


on a date
requested in writing by the owner, or






(e)


on a date
set by the minister in a notice of termination given under section 5,


whichever is the earliest date.






(1.1)


Despite
subsection (1), the agreement is not terminated under subsection (1)
by reason only that a portion of the owner's interest in the eligible
property is transferred to the spouse of the owner after an amending
agreement is made under section 7.1.






(1.2)


Despite
subsection (1), the agreement is not terminated under subsection (1)
by reason only that a portion of the eligible property is disposed of,
by the owner, to a person if






(a)


the owner
retains no interest in the portion disposed of,






(b)


the
remaining portion includes a building or a manufactured home used for
residential purposes as the owner's principal residence, and






(c)


the minister
considers that the amount deferred under the agreement remains
adequately secured.






(1.3)


If
subsection (1.2) applies,






(a)


the
agreement made under section 2 continues, subject to this section and
section 5 (5),






(b)


the
remaining portion is deemed to be the eligible property that is the
subject of the agreement, and






(c)


the minister
must release the charge, as it applies to the portion disposed of,
registered under section 7.






(1.4)


Despite
subsection (1), the agreement is not terminated under subsection (1)
by reason only that the eligible property becomes subject to an
easement, statutory right of way or similar interest.






(2)


Despite
subsection (1), the agreement is not terminated under subsection (1)
if the eligible property






(a)


is
transferred to the surviving spouse on death of the owner, or






(b)


is disposed
of in the prescribed circumstances.






(3)


Despite
subsection (2), a subsequent deferral of tax is contingent on the
transferee qualifying under section 5.






(4)


The minister
may extend the termination date of agreements in accordance with the
regulations.








Application for agreement





5



(1)


By filing an application in accordance with section 12 and the
regulations, an owner of eligible property may request the minister to
enter an agreement for the purpose referred to in section 2 if the
following requirements are met:






(a)


the eligible
property includes a building used for residential purposes as the
owner's principal residence;






(b)


the owner
has been ordinarily resident in British Columbia for not less than one
year immediately before the date the owner applies under this Act;






(c)


the owner is
a Canadian citizen or a permanent resident as defined in the


Immigration and Refugee Protection Act


(Canada);






(d)


the owner
is, at any time during the year the owner applies,






(i)


55 years of
age or older,






(ii)


a
surviving spouse, or






(iii)


a person
with disabilities as defined in the regulations;






(e)


any other
requirement prescribed by regulation.






(2)


Subsection
(1) applies also to an owner of eligible property that is or that
includes a manufactured home, if the owner






(a)


uses the
manufactured home as the owner's principal residence, and






(b)


meets the
qualifications set out in paragraphs (b) to (e) of that subsection.






(2.1)


By filing
an application in accordance with section 12 and the regulations, an
owner of eligible property may request the minister to enter an
agreement for the purpose referred to in section 2 in respect of tax
payable for the 2009 or 2010 taxation year if the following
requirements are met:






(a)


the eligible
property includes a building used for residential purposes as the
owner's principal residence;






(b)


the owner
has been ordinarily resident in British Columbia for not less than one
year immediately before the date the owner applies under this Act;






(c)


the owner is
a Canadian citizen or a permanent resident as defined in the


Immigration and Refugee Protection Act


(Canada);






(d)


the owner
declares that the owner is, at the time of the application, facing
financial hardship related to economic conditions;






(e)


any other
requirement prescribed by regulation.






(2.2)


Subsection
(2.1) applies also to an owner of eligible property that is or that
includes a manufactured home, if the owner






(a)


uses the
manufactured home as the owner's principal residence, and






(b)


meets the
qualifications set out in paragraphs (b) to (e) of that subsection.






(2.3)


By filing
an application in accordance with section 12 and the regulations, an
owner of eligible property may request the minister to enter an
agreement for the purpose referred to in section 2 in respect of tax
payable for the 2010 and subsequent taxation years if the following
requirements are met:






(a)


the eligible
property includes a building used for residential purposes as the
owner's principal residence;






(b)


the owner
has been ordinarily resident in British Columbia for not less than one
year immediately before the date the owner applies under this Act;






(c)


the owner is
a Canadian citizen or a permanent resident as defined in the


Immigration and Refugee Protection Act


(Canada);






(d)


the owner
declares that the owner is, at the time of the application, paying
financial support for a dependent child;






(e)


any other
requirement prescribed by regulation.






(2.4)


Subsection
(2.3) applies also to an owner of eligible property that is or that
includes a manufactured home, if the owner






(a)


uses the
manufactured home as the owner's principal residence, and






(b)


meets the
qualifications set out in paragraphs (b) to (e) of that subsection.






(2.5)


An owner
to whom subsection (2.3) applies must, on request, provide evidence,
satisfactory to the minister, that the owner is paying financial
support for a dependent child.






(3)


An owner of
eligible property






(a)


whose 1974
net tax on the eligible property increased by more than 20% over the
1973 net tax,






(b)


whose total
land and improvements in British Columbia had a market value on
December 31, 1973 of not more than $500 000,






(c)


who was the
owner of the eligible property on December 31, 1973, and continues as
owner,






(d)


who has paid
the tax in full up to and including the taxation year before the year
for which the application is made, and






(e)


who






(i)


has been
ordinarily resident in British Columbia for not less than one year
immediately before the date the owner applies under this Act, and






(ii)


is a
Canadian citizen or has been lawfully admitted to Canada under the


Immigration and Refugee Protection Act


(Canada) for permanent residence, or






(f)


that is a
corporation incorporated solely in Canada and registered in British
Columbia under the


Business Corporations Act


for not less than one year immediately before the date it applies
under this Act and qualifies under paragraphs (a) to (d)


may, by filing an application in accordance with section 12 and the
regulations, request the minister to enter an agreement for the
purpose referred to in section 2.






(4)


If the
minister makes an agreement under subsection (3), the amount of tax
that may be deferred under it in each year






(a)


must not
exceed,






(i)


in 1974,
85%,






(ii)


in 1975,
70%,






(iii)


in 1976,
55%,






(iv)


in 1977,
40%,






(v)


in 1978,
25%, and






(vi)


in 1979,
10%


of the amount by which the 1974 net tax payable on the eligible
property exceeds 120% of the 1973 net tax paid on that property, and






(b)


must not
include an increase in tax over the amount of tax in the 1973 taxation
year caused by a change in the physical characteristics of the
eligible property, or by new construction or development in, on or to
the eligible property.






(5)


Despite
subsections (1) to (4),






(a)


if the total
of






(i)


the
outstanding tax liability against the eligible property,






(ii)


the
registered charges against the eligible property, and






(iii)


in the
case of eligible property that is or includes a manufactured home, the
registered security interests against the manufactured home


is more than a prescribed percentage of the deferrable value of the
eligible property for the taxation year for which the application is
made, a deferral agreement must not be made, and






(b)


if the
minister considers that






(i)


the tax
that is payable is inadequately secured,






(ii)


the amount
deferred under an agreement is inadequately secured, or






(iii)


a
requirement established by the regulations for continuation of the
agreement is not met,


the minister may, despite the agreement, by notice in writing to the
owner, suspend further deferral of tax or terminate the agreement.






(6)


If eligible
property is held in joint tenancy or tenancy in common, at least one
of the owners must qualify under this Act.






(7)


If an owner
of eligible property has made an agreement under section 2 with the
minister, the owner is not required to qualify under the same
subsection in this section as the owner previously qualified under in
order to be permitted a subsequent deferral of tax under the
agreement.








Approval of application and agreement





6



(1)


If the minister is satisfied that an owner who makes an application
under section 5 qualifies under this Act, and determines the amount of
tax that may be deferred and the terms of the deferral, the minister
may approve the application.






(2)


On approving
the application, the minister must make an agreement with all owners
of the eligible property.






(2.1)


An
agreement must






(a)


be in the
form required by the minister, and






(b)


be made in
the prescribed manner and include the prescribed content, if any.






(3)


The
minister's decision respecting grant of a deferral under this Act is
final.








Registration of agreement





7



(1)


On receiving from the minister an agreement made under section 6, the
registrar of the land title office must






(a)


register it
as a registered charge in favour of the government, having priority in
accordance with section 11 (1), and






(b)


note on
every indefeasible or absolute title covering land described in the
agreement an endorsement that the title is subject to an agreement
under this Act.






(2)


If an
agreement is made under section 6 (2) with an owner referred to in
section 5 (2), (2.2) or (2.4), the minister must register a financing
statement, perfecting a security interest that has priority in
accordance with section 11 (3), in the personal property registry
established under the


Personal Property Security Act


in the form and manner prescribed under that Act.






(3)


Sections 18,
43 (1) to (3), (6) to (8) and (12) to (15), 46 to 48, 51, 52 and 54 of
the


Personal Property Security Act


apply to a registration under subsection (2).






(4)


Registration
of a financing statement as provided in subsection (2) is effective
until discharged






(a)


by
registration of a financing change statement, or






(b)


as provided
in subsection (5) or (6).






(5)


When the
unpaid taxes, interest and penalties, if any, charged against the
manufactured home in respect of which a registration has been made
under subsection (2) have been paid, the minister must discharge the
registration.






(6)


If the
registration is not discharged as required by subsection (5), the
person registered under section 5 of the


Manufactured Home Act


as owner of the manufactured home to which the registration relates
may require the registrar of the personal property registry to give a
written notice to the minister stating that the registration will be
discharged by the registrar on the expiry of 40 days after the day the
registrar gives the notice to the minister, unless in the meantime the
minister gives the registrar a court order maintaining the
registration.






(7)


If the
minister has been given a notice under subsection (6) and fails to






(a)


register a
financing change statement discharging the registration, or






(b)


obtain a
court order maintaining the registration and fails to give the order
to the registrar


before the expiry of the 40 days referred to in subsection (6), the
registrar of the personal property registry may discharge the
registration to which the notice relates.






(8)


On
application by the minister, a court may order that the registration
referred to in subsection (6) be maintained or discharged.








Amending agreement and transferring to spouse





7.1



(1)


In this section:



"amending agreement"

means an agreement that amends an original agreement;



"original agreement"

means an agreement made under section 2.






(2)


By filing an
application in accordance with section 12 and the regulations, an
owner of eligible property who is deferring taxes under an original
agreement and the spouse of the owner may request the minister to
enter into an amending agreement if the following requirements are
met:






(a)


the owner
declares that the owner intends to transfer a portion of the owner's
interest in the eligible property to the spouse of the owner;






(b)


the owner,
the spouse of the owner and all other owners, if any, agree to enter
into the amending agreement requested under this subsection.






(3)


[Repealed
2020-18-47.]






(4)


If the
minister is satisfied that the owner and the spouse of the owner have
met the requirements in subsection (2), the minister may approve the
application.






(5)


On approving
the application, the minister must






(a)


make an
amending agreement with the owner, the spouse of the owner and all
other owners, if any, and






(b)


for the
purposes of section 11 (1) (c) or (4) (b), provide consent for the
transfer of a portion of the owner's interest in the eligible property
to the spouse of the owner.






(5.1)


An
amending agreement must






(a)


be in the
form required by the minister, and






(b)


be made in
the prescribed manner and include the prescribed content, if any.






(6)


An amending
agreement made under subsection (5) takes effect when the transfer of
a portion of the owner's interest in the eligible property to the
spouse of the owner






(a)


is
registered in the land title office, or






(b)


in the case
of eligible property that is or that includes a manufactured home, is
given effect by filing a notice of transfer under the


Manufactured Home Act


.






(7)


An amending
agreement must provide that the spouse of the owner is liable for all
past and future taxes deferred under the original agreement and any
interest on the deferred taxes.






(8)


The
minister's decision respecting an application under this section is
final.








Registration of amending agreement





7.2



(1)


On receiving from the minister an amending agreement made under
section 7.1, the registrar of the land title office must register it
as a modification to the registered charge created under section 7.






(2)


If an
amending agreement is made under section 7.1 with an owner referred to
in section 5 (2), (2.2) or (2.4), the minister must amend the
financing statement registered under section 7 (2) by registering a
financing change statement in the personal property registry
established under the


Personal Property Security Act


in the form and manner prescribed under that Act.








Payment on termination





8



(1)


On termination of the agreement under section 4 or 5, all tax levied
on the eligible property described in the agreement, payment of which
was deferred under the agreement, without further notice or demand,
must immediately become due and payable together with interest
compounded yearly at






(a)


the rate set
under the agreement, or






(b)


8% a year if
no rate is set under the agreement,


but less any amount paid on account of the tax.






(2)


Despite
subsection (1), on and after April 1, 1986 the interest rate is the
simple interest rate prescribed by the minister and, in respect of
taxes deferred before April 1, 1986, the prescribed interest rate must
be applied only to the balance of principal as at March 31, 1986.






(3)


The interest
rate prescribed by the minister under subsection (2)






(a)


during the 6
month period beginning on April 1, 1986 must not exceed 8% a year, and






(b)


during each
successive 6 month period beginning on October 1 and April 1 in every
year must not exceed a yearly rate that is 2% below the prime lending
rate of the principal banker to the government on the 15th day of the
fourth month immediately preceding that 6 month period.






(3.1)


Despite
subsections (1) and (2), in respect of interest on taxes deferred
under section 5 (2.1) or (2.3), the interest rate is the simple
interest rate prescribed by the minister.






(3.2)


The
interest rate prescribed by the minister under subsection (3.1) during
each successive 6 month period beginning on October 1 and April 1 in
every year must not exceed a yearly rate that is the prime lending
rate of the principal banker to the government on the 15th day of the
fourth month immediately preceding that 6 month period.






(4)


Despite this
section, a person who






(a)


has made an
agreement under section 5 (1),






(b)


was eligible
to make the agreement under section 5 (1) (d) (ii) by reason of being
a surviving spouse at the time the agreement was made, and






(c)


subsequently
becomes the spouse of another person


must not, merely because of this new relationship, be required to
repay the amounts referred to in subsection (1) until the agreement is
terminated under section 4 or 5.






(5)


Despite
subsection (1), if an owner of a vacant parcel of land who has made an
agreement under section 5 (3) constructs a single family dwelling on
that parcel during the term of the agreement, the outstanding tax, and
interest on it deferred up to and including December 31, 1975,
required to be repaid under the agreement must be reduced, if the
single family dwelling is constructed and occupied not later than






(a)


December 31,
1975, by a percentage of 100%,






(b)


December 31,
1976, by a percentage of 80%,






(c)


December 31,
1977, by a percentage of 60%,






(d)


December 31,
1978, by a percentage of 40%, or






(e)


December 31,
1979, by a percentage of 20%.








Repayment of deferred tax





9



(1)


At any time before the termination of an agreement made under section
6, the owner may, without notice or prepayment penalty, pay to the
minister any or all deferred tax by tendering payment together with
interest compounded yearly at






(a)


the rate set
under the agreement, or






(b)


8% a year if
no rate is set under the agreement.






(2)


Despite
subsection (1), on and after April 1, 1986 the interest rate must be
the simple interest rate prescribed by the minister and, in respect of
taxes deferred before April 1, 1986, the prescribed interest rate must
be applied only to the balance of principal as at March 31, 1986.






(3)


The interest
rate prescribed by the minister under subsection (2)






(a)


during the 6
month period beginning on April 1, 1986 must not exceed 8% a year, and






(b)


during each
successive 6 month period beginning on October 1 and April 1 in every
year must not exceed a yearly rate that is 2% below the prime lending
rate of the principal banker to the government on the 15th day of the
fourth month immediately preceding that 6 month period.






(4)


[Repealed
2004-40-31.]






(5)


Despite
subsections (1) and (2), in respect of interest on taxes deferred
under section 5 (2.1) or (2.3), the interest rate is the simple
interest rate prescribed by the minister.






(6)


The interest
rate prescribed by the minister under subsection (5) during each
successive 6 month period beginning on October 1 and April 1 in every
year must not exceed a yearly rate that is the prime lending rate of
the principal banker to the government on the 15th day of the fourth
month immediately preceding that 6 month period.








Satisfaction of agreement





10



(1)


If the terms of an agreement under section 2 have been fully observed
and performed and all deferred tax and the interest on it have been
paid, the minister must






(a)


notify the
owner of the eligible property of the satisfaction of the agreement,
and






(b)


deliver a
copy of the notice to each registrar who, under section 7, registered
the agreement.






(2)


On receiving
a copy of the notice under subsection (1), the Registrar of
Manufactured Homes or the registrar of the land title office, as the
case may be, must cancel the registration of the agreement in their
records.








Effect of registration





11



(1)


If an agreement is registered in the land title office under this
Act,






(a)


the
agreement, and any deferred taxes under the agreement and interest on
them, are a lien and charge on the eligible property and have priority
over all other claims of any person, except claims secured by a
registered charge that was registered or filed in a land title office
in respect of the eligible property before the date on which the
agreement under this Act was registered,






(b)


every claim
over which paragraph (a) establishes priority is subject to the
agreement and to the deferred taxes and interest referred to in that
paragraph, and






(c)


unless
permitted by the regulations, a registrar must not register a transfer
or other conveyance of any part of the eligible property described in
the agreement without written consent of the minister.






(2)


The
registration of a financing statement in the personal property
registry under section 7 (2) creates a lien and charge on the
manufactured home to which the registration relates for the deferred
taxes and interest on them, and the lien continues as long as the
registration is effective.






(3)


The lien and
charge under subsection (2) has priority over any subsequently
perfected security interest and any other subsequent charge or claim.






(4)


If a
financing statement is filed in the personal property registry under
section 7 (2), the registrar of the manufactured home registry office
must not, except with the consent of the minister or in prescribed
circumstances,






(a)


issue a
transport permit under section 15 of the


Manufactured Home Act


, or






(b)


file a
transfer, or an agreement for sale, of a manufactured home.






(5)


A lien
referred to in subsection (2) (a) of this section as it was
immediately before October 1, 1990 is deemed to be registered in the
personal property registry.






(6)


A deemed
registration under subsection (5) expires on October 1, 1993, but may
be continued by registration under section 7 (2) before the expiry
date.






(7)


Despite any
other enactment, the following have no effect on the priority under
this section of a lien and charge on eligible property:






(a)


a transfer
of a portion of an owner's interest in the eligible property to the
spouse of the owner after an amending agreement is made under section
7.1;






(b)


the
registration of an amending agreement under section 7.2 (1);






(c)


the
registration of a financing change statement under section 7.2 (2).








Application procedure





12



(1)


An application under section 5 or 7.1 must






(a)


be filed
with the minister in the form and manner required by the minister,






(b)


meet
prescribed requirements, and






(c)


without
limiting the matters that may be required by the regulations, include
the information required by the minister.






(2)


An
application under section 5 must be filed with the minister on or
before December 31 of the current tax year.








Duties of collector





13



On request of the minister, a collector must send to the minister,
within the period requested, the following information respecting the
eligible property identified in the request:






(a)


the amount
of tax due and owing;






(b)


whether
there are any tax arrears or delinquent tax owing.








Repealed





13.1



[Repealed 2023-23-113.]








Effect of deferral





14



(1)


If an agreement is made under this Act, despite any tax Act, no
penalty or interest is payable for tax deferred under the agreement
from the date the application is filed, other than the interest
payable under this Act or the agreement.






(2)


Despite
subsection (1), if the minister does not accept an application under
this Act, the tax for which the application is made is subject to
penalties and interest under the appropriate tax Act as if the
application had not been made.








Payment to municipality





15



(1)


The minister must pay from the consolidated revenue fund to each
collector the amount required to reimburse the municipality for tax
deferred under this Act.






(2)


Despite the
appropriate tax Act, the amount paid to the collector under this
section must be applied to each eligible property, in accordance with
the agreement, toward payment of the current year's tax levied against
the owner of that property.








Statement of outstanding amounts





16



On or before June 30 in each year, the minister must provide to the
owner who is a party to an agreement under this Act a statement of
outstanding deferred taxes, plus accrued interest, as of March 31 of
that year.








Appropriation





16.1



The minister may pay out of the consolidated revenue fund an amount
for the expenses, as determined by the minister for a fiscal year,
recognized as the result of the concessionary terms of agreements
under this Act.








Information sharing





16.2



(1)


In this section:



"authorized person"

means,






(a)


in
subsection (5) (k), an authorized person as defined in section 13.1 of
the


Assessment Act


,






(b)


in
subsection (5) (l), a person who is engaged or employed, or was
formerly engaged or employed, by or on behalf of the Land Title and
Survey Authority of British Columbia, to assist in carrying out the
provisions of the


Land Title and Survey Authority Act


, and






(c)


in any other
case, a person who is engaged or employed, or was formerly engaged or
employed, by or on behalf of the government, to assist in carrying out
the provisions of this Act;



"confidential information"

means information of any kind and in any form, relating to one or more
persons,






(a)


that is
obtained for the purposes of this Act by or on behalf of the minister,
or






(b)


that is
prepared from information referred to in paragraph (a),


but does not include information that does not directly or indirectly
reveal the identity of the person to whom the information relates;



"designated person"

has the same meaning as in section 241 (10) of the


Income Tax Act


(Canada);



"official"

means
any person






(a)


who is
employed in the service of, is engaged by or on behalf of, or occupies
a position of responsibility in the service of the government of
British Columbia, another province or Canada, or






(b)


who was
formerly so employed or engaged or formerly occupied such a position,


and, for the purposes of subsections (2) and (3),

"official"

includes a designated person;



"police officer"

means a police officer as defined in section 462.48 (17) of the


Criminal Code


.






(2)


Despite any
other enactment or law, except as authorized by this section, an
official must not






(a)


knowingly
provide, or knowingly allow to be provided, any confidential
information to any person,






(b)


knowingly
allow any person to have access to any confidential information, or






(c)


knowingly
use any confidential information otherwise than in the course of the
administration and enforcement of this Act or for a purpose for which
it was provided under this section.






(3)


Despite any
other enactment or law, an official must not be required, in
connection with any legal proceedings, to give or produce evidence
relating to any confidential information.






(4)


Subsections
(2) and (3) do not apply in relation to the following:






(a)


criminal
proceedings that have been commenced by the laying of an information
or the preferring of an indictment under an Act of the Parliament of
Canada;






(b)


any legal
proceedings relating to the administration or enforcement of






(i)


any
enactment of British Columbia, another province or Canada that
provides for the imposition or collection of a tax or duty, or






(ii)


the


Home Owner Grant Act


.






(5)


Subject to
subsection (6), an official may do one or more of the following:






(a)


provide to
any person confidential information that can reasonably be considered
necessary for the purposes of the administration or enforcement of
this Act, solely for those purposes;






(b)


provide to
any person confidential information that can reasonably be considered
necessary for the purposes of determining






(i)


any amount
that is or may become payable by the person under this Act,






(ii)


any refund
to which the person is or may become entitled under this Act, or






(iii)


any other
amount that is relevant for the purposes of a determination under
subparagraph (i) or (ii);






(c)


provide
confidential information as follows:






(i)


to an
official of the Department of Finance of the government of Canada,
solely for the purposes of the formulation or evaluation of fiscal
policy;






(ii)


to an
official solely for the purposes of the initial implementation of a
fiscal policy;






(iii)


to an
official of the ministry of the minister, solely for the purposes of
the formulation or evaluation of fiscal policy;






(iv)


to an
official solely for the purposes of the administration or enforcement
of the


Home Owner Grant Act


or an enactment of British Columbia that provides for the imposition
or collection of a tax or duty;






(v)


to an
official solely for the purposes of the administration or enforcement
of an Act of the Parliament of Canada, or an enactment of another
province, that provides for the imposition or collection of a tax or
duty;






(vi)


to an
official solely for the purposes of the compilation of statistical
information by the government or the government of Canada, as the case
may be;






(vii)


to an
official solely for the purposes of setting off, against any sum of
money that may be due or payable by the government, a debt due to the
government;






(d)


provide
confidential information, or allow inspection of or access to
confidential information, as the case may be, under, and solely for
the purposes of,






(i)


sections 44
(1) and 61 (1) of the


Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act


, or






(ii)


sections
15, 16 and 17 of the


Auditor General Act


;






(e)


provide
confidential information relating to a person






(i)


to the
person, and






(ii)


with the
consent of the person, to any other person;






(f)


use
confidential information to compile information in a form that does
not directly or indirectly reveal the identity of the person to whom
the information relates;






(g)


provide
confidential information solely for the purposes of sections 17, 18
and 19 of the


Financial Administration Act


;






(h)


use, or
provide to any person, confidential information solely for a purpose
relating to the supervision, evaluation or discipline of an authorized
person by the government in respect of a period during which the
authorized person was employed by, or engaged by or on behalf of, the
government to assist in the administration or enforcement of this Act,
to the extent that the information is relevant for the purpose;






(i)


provide
confidential information to a police officer, solely for the purposes
of an investigation into whether an offence has been committed under
the


Criminal Code


, or the laying of an information or the preferring of an indictment,
if






(i)


the
confidential information can reasonably be considered necessary for
the purpose of ascertaining, with respect to an official, or with
respect to any person related to the official,






(A)


the
circumstances in which an offence under the


Criminal Code


may have been committed, or






(B)


the identity
of the person who may have committed an offence under the


Criminal Code


,






(ii)


the
official was or is engaged in the administration or enforcement of
this Act, and






(iii)


the
offence can reasonably be considered to be related to the
administration or enforcement of this Act;






(j)


provide
confidential information to, or allow inspection of or access to
confidential information by, any person otherwise legally entitled to
the information under a prescribed enactment of British Columbia,
solely for the purposes for which the person is entitled to the
information;






(k)


provide
confidential information to, or allow inspection of or access to
confidential information by, an authorized person, solely for the
purposes of the administration or enforcement of the


Assessment Act


;






(l)


provide
confidential information to, or allow inspection of or access to
confidential information by, an authorized person, solely for the
purposes set out in section 4 (1) (a) of the


Land Title and Survey Authority Act


.






(6)


Except in
accordance with an information-sharing agreement entered into under
section 16.3, an official must not, under subsection (5) (a) to (c)
and (g) to (l) of this section, provide confidential information to,
or allow inspection of or access to confidential information by,






(a)


an official
of a public body, as defined in the


Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act


, other than the ministry of the minister,






(b)


an official
of the government of Canada, or






(c)


an official
of the government of another province.






(7)


An official
may provide to appropriate persons any confidential information
relating to imminent danger of death or physical injury to any
individual.






(8)


The person
who presides at a legal proceeding in relation to the supervision,
evaluation or discipline of an authorized person may make orders
necessary to ensure that confidential information is not used or
provided to any person for any purpose unrelated to the proceeding,
including






(a)


an order
that the proceeding be held in private,






(b)


an order
banning publication of the confidential information,






(c)


an order to
conceal the identity of the person to whom the confidential
information relates, and






(d)


an order
sealing the records of the proceeding.






(9)


To the
extent of any inconsistency or conflict with section 32 or 33 of the


Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act


, this section applies despite that Act.








Information-sharing agreements





16.3



(1)


In this section:



"confidential information"

has the same meaning as in section 16.2;



"information-sharing agreement"

means an agreement or arrangement to exchange, by electronic data
transmission, electronic data matching or any other means, information
for a purpose described in section 16.2 (5).






(2)


The minister
may enter into an information-sharing agreement with






(a)


a public
body as defined in the


Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act


,






(b)


the
government of Canada or an agency of that government, or






(c)


the
government of a province or other jurisdiction in Canada or an agency
of that government.






(3)


Subject to
subsection (4), confidential information obtained by the minister
under an information-sharing agreement may be used or disclosed only
for the purposes for which it was obtained under the applicable
agreement.






(4)


Subsection
(3) does not prevent






(a)


any
confidential information obtained by the minister under an
information-sharing agreement with the government of Canada or an
agency of that government from being used or disclosed for the purpose
of administering and enforcing






(i)


an
enactment administered by the minister that provides for the
imposition or collection of a tax or duty, or






(ii)


the


Home Owner Grant Act


, or






(b)


any
confidential information obtained by the minister under an
information-sharing agreement from being used or disclosed for the
purpose of administering and enforcing an Act of the Parliament of
Canada that provides for the imposition or collection of a tax or
duty.






(5)


The
Lieutenant Governor in Council may prescribe terms and conditions to
be included in the information-sharing agreements entered into by the
minister.






(6)


For the
purposes of section 16.2 (6), an information-sharing agreement entered
into before the coming into force of this section is considered to be
an information-sharing agreement entered into by the minister under
this section.








Offence — providing false information





17



(1)


If a person completes, and delivers or has delivered to the minister,
an application to make an agreement under this Act containing
information the person knows is false or misleading for the purpose of
deferring the person's tax, and the minister makes an agreement as a
result of the application, that person commits an offence.






(2)


A person who
commits an offence under subsection (1) is liable on conviction






(a)


for a first
offence, to a fine not more than $500, and






(b)


for a
subsequent offence, to a fine of not less than $100 and not more than
$1 000.








Offences — confidential information





17.1



(1)


Without limiting section 5 of the


Offence Act


as it applies for the purposes of this Act, a person commits an
offence if the person






(a)


contravenes
section 16.2 (2), or






(b)


knowingly
contravenes an order made under section 16.2 (8).






(2)


A person
commits an offence if






(a)


the person
has been provided with confidential information for a particular
purpose under section 16.2 (5) (a) to (d), (g), (h) or (j) to (l), and






(b)


the person
knowingly, for a purpose other than the purpose referred to in
paragraph (a), uses the information, provides the information or
allows the information to be provided to any person or allows any
person to access the information.






(3)


A person who
commits an offence under subsection (1) or (2) is liable on conviction
to one or both of the following:






(a)


a fine of
not more than $5 000;






(b)


imprisonment
for not more than 12 months.








Power to make regulations





18



(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations including
regulations referred to in section 41 of the


Interpretation Act


.






(2)


Without
limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council may make
regulations as follows:






(a)


defining any
expression used in this Act or the regulations and not defined in this
Act;






(a.1)


respecting
applications;






(a.2)


respecting
the content of, and manner of entering into, agreements made under
this Act;






(b)


extending
the termination date of an agreement made under this Act or the time
within which a provision of this Act must be complied with;






(c)


prescribing
the conditions consistent with this Act to permit a person who
qualifies as an owner under paragraph (b) of the definition of
"owner", by ownership of capital stock in a corporation, to defer tax;






(d)


prescribing
the manner of repayment by a corporation under section 9;






(e)


prescribing
circumstances in which the disposal of eligible property does not
terminate an agreement;






(f)


prescribing
a percentage for the purposes of section 5 (5) (a), which may be
different for taxes deferred under section 5 (1), (2.1) and (2.3);






(g)


prescribing
requirements that must be met for the purposes of section 5 (1) (e),
(2.1) (e), (2.3) (e) or (5) (b) (iii);






(h)


including
and excluding classes of persons for the purposes of section 1.1;






(i)


prescribing
an enactment for the purposes of section 16.2 (5) (j).








Repealed





19



[Repealed 2004-40-35.]




