




Liquor Distribution Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 268






Definitions




1

(1)


In this Act:



"acquired liquor"

means liquor to which the government holds title acquired under
section 6 (1) or (3);



"agency store"

means a liquor store operated by an agent;


"agent"
means a person appointed under section 18 (5);



"allowable shrinkage"

means, in relation to acquired liquor for which a manufacturer,
manufacturer's agent, distributor or authorized importer is required
to account under section 4 (3), the quantity of that acquired liquor
that, in the opinion of the general manager having regard to all of
the applicable circumstances, could reasonably be expected to be lost
by breakage, spillage or otherwise while that acquired liquor was at
the risk of that manufacturer, manufacturer's agent, distributor or
authorized importer;



"authorized importer"

means a person, other than a manufacturer, manufacturer's agent or
distributor, who




(a)

brings liquor or causes liquor to be brought within the boundaries of
British Columbia, and




(b)

is authorized by the general manager to possess that liquor in British
Columbia;



"authorized vendor"

means




(a)

the branch or an agent of the branch, including, without limitation,




(i)

a warehouse or distribution centre owned or operated by or leased to
the branch or an agent of the branch, and




(ii)

a liquor store,




(b)

a person whom the minister appoints as agent or contracts with to act
as agent under section 18 (5),




(c)

a person to whom a licence of a prescribed class of licences is issued
under the

Liquor Control and Licensing Act

other than, subject to paragraph (c.01) of this definition, a
manufacturer,




(c.01)

a manufacturer that, in its own establishment, is allowed under the

Liquor Control and Licensing Act

to sell and serve liquor manufactured by another manufacturer,




(c.1)

a person authorized under the

Liquor Control and Licensing Act

to sell liquor by auction with or without a permit,




(c.2)

a person to whom a special event permit is issued under the

Liquor Control and Licensing Act

,




(d)

a duty free liquor store, including a ship chandler, or




(e)

in relation to a manufacturer, manufacturer's agent or distributor,
any other person to whom the manufacturer, manufacturer's agent or
distributor is, under this section or an agreement in force between
that person and the branch, entitled to sell or otherwise dispose of
liquor;


"branch"
means the Liquor Distribution Branch continued under section 2;



"distributor"

means a person, other than a manufacturer's agent, appointed by a
manufacturer or by a manufacturer's agent for the purpose of doing one
or more of the following:




(a)

ordering liquor through the branch;




(b)

storing or distributing liquor;




(c)

selling liquor as the agent of the branch;




(d)

conducting financial matters relating to a matter referred to in
paragraph (a), (b) or (c);



"ethyl alcohol"

has the same meaning as in section 1 of the

Liquor Control and Licensing Act

;



"general manager"

means the general manager of the branch appointed under
section 12;



"independent importer"

means a person who




(a)

brings liquor or causes liquor to be brought within the boundaries of
British Columbia, and




(b)

contrary to section 4 (1), possesses that liquor in British Columbia;


"licensee"
means a person who holds a licence or permit issued under the

Liquor Control and Licensing Act

that allows the person to sell or serve liquor;


"liquor"
has the same meaning as in section 1 of the

Liquor Control and Licensing Act

;



"liquor store"

means a government liquor store, government beer store or government
wine store, or an agency established by the general manager under this
Act;



"manufacture"

includes, in relation to liquor,




(a)

the packaging or other enclosing of the liquor in containers in or out
of which the liquor is intended to be distributed to consumers,




(b)

the blending of the liquor,




(c)

the flavouring of the liquor, and




(d)

the brewing, distilling or fermenting of the liquor


but does not include, in relation to prescribed liquor, any of the
processes referred to in paragraphs (a) to (d) or any other
manufacturing processes;



"manufacturer"

means, in relation to liquor, the person who manufactures the liquor;



"manufacturer's agent"

means a person who holds a licence of a prescribed class of licences
under the

Liquor Control and Licensing Act

;


"products"
means goods or articles other than liquor;



"retail price"

means, in relation to liquor, the price fixed under section 18 (1) as
the price at which liquor of that type is to be sold at a liquor
store;



"store manager"

means a person appointed under section 24 (1);



"unlicensed manufacturer"

means a person who manufactures liquor that the person is not licensed
to manufacture under the

Liquor Control and Licensing Act

;


"warehouse"
means a warehouse owned or occupied by the branch or by an agent or
person acting on behalf of the branch.




(2)

For the purposes of this Act and the

Importation of Intoxicating Liquors Act

(Canada), liquor is conclusively deemed to be intoxicating.






Liquor Distribution Branch continued




2

(1)


The Liquor Distribution Branch is continued.




(2)

The branch has the sole right to purchase, both in and out of British
Columbia, liquor for resale and reuse in British Columbia in
accordance with the provisions of the

Importation of Intoxicating Liquors Act

(Canada).






Application of Act




3


This Act does not apply to or prevent the




(a)

importation or possession of liquor for the purposes referred to in
section 8 of the

Importation of Intoxicating Liquors Act

(Canada),




(b)

possession of liquor referred to in section 2 of the

Liquor Control and Licensing Act

in the circumstances referred to in that section or in accordance with
a licence referred to in that section, or




(c)

possession, sale or purchase of a substance referred to in section 10
(1) of the

Liquor Control and Licensing Act

in the circumstances referred to in that section.






Government to maintain control of liquor in British Columbia




4

(1)


A person must not possess liquor in British Columbia unless




(a) and (a.1)

[Repealed 2015-19-103.]




(b)

the liquor was manufactured in British Columbia but has not been
packaged or otherwise enclosed in containers in or out of which the
liquor is intended to be distributed to consumers, and the person
possessing the liquor is the manufacturer of the liquor or intends to
further manufacture the liquor,




(c)

the liquor is acquired liquor and




(i)

the person is the manufacturer of that liquor, or




(ii)

the person is a manufacturer's agent or distributor and acquires and
retains possession of the liquor in that capacity,




(d)

the liquor is liquor referred to in section 3 (2) of the

Importation of Intoxicating Liquors Act

(Canada),




(e)

the liquor was purchased from an authorized vendor,




(f)

the liquor was sold and released to the person by a customs officer
under section 19 (3),




(g)

the person is, under terms and conditions specified by the general
manager, authorized by the general manager to possess the liquor in
British Columbia, or




(h)

the liquor is, in prescribed circumstances, in the possession of a
prescribed person or of a member of a prescribed class of persons.




(2)

Each person who possesses in British Columbia liquor referred to in
subsection (1) (d), each person who has control of liquor referred to
in subsection (1) (d) while that liquor is in British Columbia, each
independent importer who possesses in British Columbia liquor in
relation to which the person is an independent importer and each
authorized importer who possesses in British Columbia liquor in
relation to which the person is an authorized importer must




(a)

immediately after that liquor comes within the boundaries of British
Columbia, notify the branch of the importation of that liquor, and




(b)

if that person is authorized to export that liquor from British
Columbia, notify the branch of the exportation of that liquor
immediately after that liquor leaves British Columbia.




(3)

Each manufacturer of acquired liquor, each person who is appointed as
a manufacturer's agent or distributor in relation to that acquired
liquor, the authorized importer of the liquor and every other person
who at any time had possession or control of that acquired liquor must
keep records accounting for that acquired liquor in the manner and
with the content required by the general manager.




(4)

The general manager may provide to an independent importer or an
unlicensed manufacturer directions respecting the liquor in relation
to which that person is an independent importer or unlicensed
manufacturer, as the case may be, including, without limitation,
directions that the independent importer or unlicensed manufacturer
destroy or otherwise dispose of that liquor, and the independent
importer or unlicensed manufacturer




(a)

must, promptly after receiving directions from the general manager
under this subsection, comply with those directions, and




(b)

must not make any use whatsoever of the liquor in relation to which
that person is the independent importer or unlicensed manufacturer
other than a use specifically authorized by the general manager.




(5)

The directions provided to and the obligations imposed on an
independent importer or unlicensed manufacturer under subsection (4)
do not relieve that person from any other liability.






Agreements




5


The branch may, on behalf of the government, enter into an agreement
with any person respecting any matter relating to or arising from the
acquisition, possession or disposition of liquor by that person or by
any other person on that person's behalf, including, without
limitation, an agreement with any one or more of the following:




(a)

a person who is or will be the manufacturer of the liquor;




(b)

a person who is or will be appointed as manufacturer's agent or
distributor in relation to the liquor;




(c)

a person who does or may possess the liquor in British Columbia.






Government acquires title to liquor




6

(1)


The government acquires title to any liquor coming within the
boundaries of British Columbia at the earlier of




(a)

the time that that liquor comes within the boundaries of British
Columbia, and




(b)

the time that the government acquires title to the liquor under any
agreement entered into by the branch in relation to the liquor under
section 5.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply to liquor referred to in section 3 (2)
of the

Importation of Intoxicating Liquors Act

(Canada).




(3)

The government acquires title to any liquor manufactured in British
Columbia if and at the time that that liquor, while in British
Columbia, is packaged or otherwise enclosed in containers in or out of
which the liquor is intended to be distributed to consumers.




(4)

Acquisition by the government of title to liquor under this section
does not prevent the manufacturer of that liquor, a manufacturer's
agent or distributor in relation to that liquor or an authorized
importer of that liquor from doing any one or more of the following:




(a)

selling and delivering the liquor to a purchaser outside British
Columbia;




(b)

using the liquor in a manner provided for in any applicable agreement
entered into by the branch and that person under section 5;




(c)

using the liquor in the manufacture by that person of liquor to which
the government will acquire title under subsection (3);




(d)

delivering the liquor to or to the order of a manufacturer for the use
by that manufacturer in the manufacture of liquor to which the
government will acquire title under subsection (3).




(5)

The government ceases to hold title to acquired liquor




(a)

if the liquor is sold and shipped to a purchaser outside British
Columbia, at the time that the liquor ceases to be within the
boundaries of British Columbia,




(b)

at the time that the liquor is sold or otherwise disposed of by the
branch,




(c)

at the time that the liquor is sold or otherwise disposed of by




(i)

the manufacturer of the liquor who packages or otherwise encloses the
liquor in containers in or out of which the liquor is intended to be
distributed to consumers, or




(ii)

a person who is appointed as manufacturer's agent or distributor in
relation to the liquor


in accordance with the terms of an applicable agreement entered into
by the branch and that person under section 5,




(d)

at the time that the liquor is sold or otherwise disposed of to




(i)

an authorized vendor referred to in paragraph (b) of the definition of
"authorized vendor" other than a manufacturer of the liquor, or




(ii)

an authorized vendor referred to in paragraph (c), (c.01) or (d) of
the definition of "authorized vendor", or




(e)

at the time that the liquor is used or delivered in accordance with
subsection (4) (c) or (d).






Government not liable




7

(1)


In this section,
"government representative"
means an individual appointed to a position with or otherwise employed
in the government.




(2)

Despite the acquisition of title to liquor by the government under
section 6, until the liquor is delivered to an authorized vendor in
accordance with the instructions of the branch, neither the government
nor any government representative is liable for any loss, costs,
damages, liability or expenses of any kind in any way relating to the
liquor including, without limitation,




(a)

any loss or theft of the liquor or any container in which it is or is
to be placed,




(b)

any damage to or destruction of the liquor or any container in which
it is or is to be placed,




(c)

any loss, damage, injury or death resulting from or arising out of any
manufacture, consumption or other use of the liquor, and




(d)

any loss, damage, injury or death resulting from or arising out of any
damage to or loss, theft or destruction of the liquor or any container
in which it is or is to be placed.




(3)

Nothing in section 6 or this section renders the government or any
government representative liable for any loss, costs, damages,
liability or expenses of any kind in any way relating to liquor that
the government or the government representative would not have been
liable for had section 6 or this section not been brought into force.




(4)

Despite the acquisition of title to liquor by the government under
section 6, the government is not obligated to pay any money in
respect of the liquor to any person until




(a)

the date set for payment under any applicable agreement entered into
by the branch and that person under section 5, or




(b)

if there is no date set for payment in accordance with paragraph (a),
the date set for payment in the regulations.




(5)

Despite subsection (4), the government is not obligated to pay any
money in respect of liquor that is treated as allowable shrinkage for
the purposes of section 9 (2) (d).






Government may sell liquor




8

(1)


Without limiting any other rights of the government, the government
may, in respect of acquired liquor, do one or more of the following:




(a)

sell a quantity of that liquor to the manufacturer of that liquor;




(b)

sell a quantity of that liquor to a person appointed as manufacturer's
agent in relation to that liquor;




(c)

sell a quantity of that liquor to a person appointed as distributor in
relation to that liquor;




(d)

sell a quantity of that liquor to the person who is the authorized
importer of that liquor.




(2)

A manufacturer, manufacturer's agent, distributor or authorized
importer to whom liquor is sold under subsection (1) must
purchase the liquor in accordance with section 10.






Liquor not accounted for




9

(1)


If the general manager determines, from a review of the records kept
by a manufacturer, manufacturer's agent, distributor or authorized
importer, that a quantity of acquired liquor is unaccounted for, the
general manager may treat the quantity of the acquired liquor that is
unaccounted for as having been sold to that manufacturer,
manufacturer's agent, distributor or authorized importer under
section 8.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1), the quantity of acquired liquor
that is unaccounted for in relation to a manufacturer, manufacturer's
agent, distributor or authorized importer is that quantity of the
acquired liquor for which the person is required to account under
section 4 (3) less the aggregate of the following:




(a)

the quantity of that liquor that is accounted for to the satisfaction
of the general manager as having been delivered to an authorized
vendor in accordance with the instructions of the branch;




(b)

the quantity of that liquor that is accounted for to the satisfaction
of the general manager as having been




(i)

sold and delivered,




(ii)

used, or




(iii)

delivered

in accordance with section 6 (4);



(c)

the quantity of that liquor that is accounted for to the satisfaction
of the general manager as being in the inventory of that person;




(d)

the quantity of the allowable shrinkage in respect of that liquor for
that person.




(3)

If the general manager decides, under subsection (1), to treat a
quantity of liquor as having been sold to a manufacturer,
manufacturer's agent, distributor or authorized importer under section
8, the general manager must give written notice of that decision to
that person.






Purchase of liquor sold by government




10


A manufacturer, manufacturer's agent, distributor or authorized
importer referred to in section 8 (2) must, promptly after the sale
referred to in section 8 (1), and a manufacturer, manufacturer's
agent, distributor or authorized importer referred to in section 9 (1)
must, promptly after the date of the notice given under section 9 (3),
pay to the branch in respect of the sale




(a)

the retail price for the liquor that is the subject matter of the sale
or such other price for that liquor as may be provided for in any
applicable agreement entered into by the branch and that manufacturer,
manufacturer's agent, distributor or authorized importer under section
5, or




(b)

at the option of the branch, the difference between the amount payable
for that liquor under paragraph (a) and the amount, if any, owing by
the government to that manufacturer, manufacturer's agent, distributor
or authorized importer.






Definitions




10.1

(1)


In this section and sections 11 to 11.5:


"applicant"
means a person who applies for approval under section 11.3 (1);



"approved operator"

means a person approved under section 11.3 (1);


"associate"
, in relation to an applicant or an approved operator, means




(a)

any person, or any person in one or more classes of persons that may
be prescribed for this definition, that has a financial interest in
the applicant's or approved operator's business or in the premises in
which non duty paid packaged liquor is or is intended to be stored,




(b)

if the applicant or approved operator is an individual or a
partnership in which one or more of the partners is an individual,




(i)

the spouse of the individual,




(ii)

any relative of the individual or the spouse referred to in
subparagraph (i) if the relative has the same residence as the
individual,




(iii)

any corporation controlled by the individual, any of the corporation's
officers and directors and any person that has a financial interest in
the corporation, and




(iv)

any corporation that is affiliated with the corporation referred to in
subparagraph (iii), the affiliated corporation's officers and
directors and any person having a financial interest in the affiliated
corporation, or




(c)

if the applicant or approved operator is a partnership in which one or
more of the partners is a corporation, or is a corporation, any other
corporation that is affiliated with the applicant or approved
operator, any of the affiliated corporation's officers and directors
and any person that has a financial interest in the affiliated
corporation;


"duty"
means the duty imposed under the

Excise Act, 2001

(Canada) and the duty levied under section 21.1 or 21.2 of the

Customs Tariff

(Canada), but does not include "special duty" as defined in section 2
of the

Excise Act, 2001

(Canada);



"non duty paid"

means the duty payable has not been paid;



"packaged liquor"

means liquor, other than beer and malt liquor, that is packaged in a
container of a capacity of not more than 100 L that is ordinarily sold
to consumers without the liquor being repackaged.




(2)

For the definition of "associate" in subsection (1), a corporation is
affiliated with another corporation if it is an affiliate of the other
corporation within the meaning of the

Business Corporations Act

.






Inspections




11

(1)


For the purpose of ensuring compliance with this Act and the
regulations, the general manager or a person authorized by the general
manager may conduct an inspection, including an audit, under this
section and may, for that purpose,




(a)

require any person who has possession of or control over any records
and things that may be relevant to the inspection to produce those
records and things,




(b)

inspect any of the records and things produced under paragraph (a),
and




(c)

remove any of the records and things produced under paragraph (a) for
the purpose of making copies or extracts.




(2)

A person conducting an inspection under this section




(a)

may enter the business premises of a manufacturer, manufacturer's
agent, distributor, authorized importer, independent importer,
applicant, approved operator or a director, officer, employee or
associate of an applicant or approved operator during business hours
for the purposes of




(i)

inspecting any records and things that may be relevant to the
inspection, and




(ii)

ascertaining the quantities of liquor on hand or sold by the
manufacturer, manufacturer's agent, distributor, authorized importer,
independent importer, applicant, approved operator or a director,
officer, employee or associate of an applicant or approved operator,
and




(b)

must, on request, present identification to the owner or occupant of
the premises.




(3)

A person referred to in subsection (1) (a) must produce all records
and things that a person conducting an inspection under this section
may require for the purposes of this section and must answer all
questions of the person conducting the inspection regarding the
matters relevant to the inspection.




(4)

A person conducting an inspection under this section may request the
production of all records of a manufacturer, manufacturer's agent,
distributor, authorized importer, independent importer, applicant,
approved operator or a director, officer, employee or associate of an
applicant or approved operator that may be relevant to the inspection,
including, without limitation,




(a)

accounting books,




(b)

cash, negotiable instruments or other receipts or evidence of payments
received,




(c)

bank account records,




(d)

vouchers,




(e)

correspondence,




(f)

contracts entered into with clients,




(g)

manufacturing, production, inventory, shipping and receiving records,




(h)

advertising contracts and related records and material,




(i)

bonding and insurance records and contracts, and




(j)

any other records that touch on any of the matters referred to in
sections 4 to 10 and 11.1 to 11.5.




(5)

A person conducting an inspection under this section who removes any
records or things




(a)

may make copies of, take extracts from or otherwise record them,




(b)

must give a receipt for them to the person from whom they are taken,
and




(c)

must return them within a reasonable time.




(6)

A person must not obstruct a person conducting an inspection under
this section or withhold, destroy, tamper with, conceal or refuse to
produce any information, record or thing that is required by the
person conducting the inspection or that is otherwise relevant to any
of the matters in respect of which the inspection may be conducted.






Movement and storage of packaged liquor




11.1

(1)


A person may move non duty paid packaged liquor, or cause non duty
paid packaged liquor to be moved, from




(a)

the location in the Province where it is packaged as packaged liquor,




(b)

the location where it comes within the boundaries of the Province, or




(c)

a location where it is stored


to another location only if the premises at the new location meet the
requirements established by the general manager under section 11.2 and
are operated by an approved operator.




(2)

A person may store non duty paid packaged liquor at premises or a
portion of those premises only if




(a)

the portion of the premises where it is stored meets the requirements
established by the general manager under section 11.2, and




(b)

an approved operator operates the premises.




(3)

Only an approved operator may operate premises where non duty paid
packaged liquor is stored.






Requirements of the general manager




11.2

(1)


The general manager may establish requirements respecting




(a)

the physical structure, operation and security measures of premises
that are, or are intended to be, used to store non duty paid packaged
liquor,




(b)

information, signed statements and documents that




(i)

an applicant for approval under section 11.3, and




(ii)

the approved operator of premises


must create, keep and provide to the general manager at the times
required by the general manager, and




(c)

bonding that must be held by a person described in paragraph (b).




(2)

The requirements under subsection (1) (b) may include




(a)

requirements relating to the creation, transmission and keeping of
records in an intangible form by electronic, magnetic, optical or
other means, and




(b)

if the general manager considers it necessary in order to make a
decision under sections 11.3 to 11.5, requirements relating to
background information respecting




(i)

the applicant or approved operator, and




(ii)

employees, partners and associates of the applicant or approved
operator.






Granting of approval




11.3

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), the general manager may, with or without
conditions, approve a person to operate premises that store non duty
paid packaged liquor if




(a)

the general manager has received




(i)

an application from the person who operates or intends to operate the
premises,




(ii)

the information, signed statements and documents required by the
general manager under section 11.2, and




(iii)

any additional information or documents that the general manager
requests for the application,




(b)

the applicant has submitted to a background investigation and a
written report of it is on file with the general manager, and




(c)

the general manager considers it appropriate to grant approval taking
into account the application and the information referred to in
paragraphs (a) (ii) and (iii) and (b).




(2)

The general manager may refuse to approve a person who has applied
under subsection (1) if




(a)

the requirements of the general manager established under
section 11.2 are not met,




(b)

the applicant has breached or is in breach of a provision of this Act,




(c)

the applicant has made a material misrepresentation, omission or
misstatement in the application for approval,




(d)

the applicant has been convicted of an offence, inside or outside
British Columbia, that in the opinion of the general manager calls
into question the honesty or integrity of the applicant,




(e)

the applicant or any person who is a director, officer, employee or
associate of the applicant is considered by the general manager, on
reasonable grounds, to be a detriment to the lawful operation or
management of premises where non duty paid liquor is intended to be
stored, or




(f)

the applicant




(i)

has been refused permission in another jurisdiction in Canada to
operate premises in which non duty paid liquor was to be stored, or




(ii)

held in another jurisdiction in Canada a similar approval or
permission to operate premises where non duty paid liquor was or was
to be stored, and that similar approval or permission was suspended or
cancelled.






Suspension, cancellation and termination of approval




11.4

(1)


For any of the reasons stated in section 11.3 (2), the general manager
may issue a warning to a person who has been approved or may cancel,
suspend for a period of time, impose new conditions on or vary
existing conditions of an approval granted under section 11.3.




(2)

For the purpose of subsection (1), section 11.3 (2) applies as if an
approved operator is an applicant.




(3)

The approval for an approved operator to operate premises
automatically terminates if




(a)

the approved operator ceases to operate the premises, or




(b)

the approved operator operates the premises with a person who is not
approved under section 11.3.






Powers of general manager




11.5

(1)


The general manager may conduct inspections for the purposes of




(a)

assessing applications for approval under section 11.3, and




(b)

monitoring an approved operator's compliance with this Act.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1), the general manager may conduct
background investigations, including but not limited to criminal
record checks and inquiries as to financial integrity, of the
following:




(a)

applicants;




(b)

approved operators;




(c)

directors, officers, employees or associates of applicants or approved
operators.






Consumption of liquor in liquor stores




11.6


The general manager may allow, on the conditions the general manager
considers advisable,




(a)

the consumption of liquor in a liquor store or duty free liquor store,
or




(b)

the possession of an open container of liquor in a liquor store or
duty free liquor store.






Offence




11.7


A person who does any of the following commits an offence:




(a)

knowingly provides information that is false or misleading with
respect to a material fact contained in a signed statement under this
Act;




(b)

produces or relies upon a signed statement given by another person
under this Act while knowing the signed statement to be false or
misleading with respect to a material fact contained in that signed
statement.






Appointment of general manager and other employees




12

(1)


The minister must appoint under the

Public Service Act

a general manager of the branch and must set the remuneration of the
general manager.




(2)

The general manager is responsible for administering this Act,
including the general control, management and supervision of liquor
stores, subject to the orders, directions and supervision of the
minister.




(3)

Store managers and other employees required for the purposes of this
Act may be appointed under the

Public Service Act

.






Duties and powers of general manager




13


Subject to this Act and regulations the general manager has the
following responsibilities:




(a)

to determine the localities in which liquor stores are to be
established in British Columbia and the number, kind and situation of
the liquor stores in each locality;




(b)

to establish all necessary warehouses for storing and bottling stocks
of liquor and products for the purposes of this Act;




(c)

to provide for constructing, acquiring or leasing in the name and on
behalf of the government premises for warehouse and store purposes,
and for obtaining furnishings, fixtures and supplies;




(d)

to appoint or designate a person the general manager considers
advisable as an analyst for the purposes of this Act;




(e)

to perform all other acts required to properly and efficiently
administer the general manager's responsibilities as defined by the
minister and under this Act.






Delegation of powers, duties or functions




13.1


The general manager may authorize in writing any person referred to in
section 12 (3) to carry out any of the powers, duties or functions of
the general manager under this Act.






Warehouses




14

(1)


The general manager, with the minister's approval must build,
purchase, lease, furnish and equip warehouses required in the
administration of this Act.




(2)

The general manager may authorize 2 or more breweries to have a common
warehouse and to make deliveries from it, subject to the orders made
by the general manager.




(3)

Subject to the

Environmental Management Act

and the regulations under it, the general manager may




(a)

make orders respecting the return and recycling of bottles obtained by
the branch, and




(b)

establish and operate bottle return depots or make agreements with
other persons to establish and operate them.






Repealed




15


[Repealed 2015-23-26.]






Registered liquor products




15.1

(1)


The general manager may register liquor products for the purposes of
this section.




(2)

Without limiting the discretion of the general manager under
subsection (1), the general manager, in determining whether to
register a liquor product, may consider the size, nature, form and
capacity of containers and packages used for the liquor product.




(3)

A person must not sell or offer to sell to the public a liquor product
that has not been registered under subsection (1).






Repealed




16


[Repealed 2002-48-44.]






Repealed




17


[Repealed 2015-23-28.]






Liquor stores and prices




18

(1)


The general manager




(a)

may establish and maintain stores to be known as "government liquor
stores", "government beer stores" and "government wine stores" for the
sale of liquor and products in accordance with this Act and
regulations,




(b)

may set the price or a range of prices at which the liquor must be
sold, and




(c)

may list liquor products that may be sold in a liquor store.




(2)

[Repealed 2015-23-29.]




(3)

The general manager may set a price at which ethyl alcohol may be sold
to a person who is authorized under the

Liquor Control and Licensing Act

to purchase ethyl alcohol.




(4)

A minor must not be employed in a liquor store to sell or wrap liquor.




(5)

If the minister or person designated in writing by the minister for
the purposes of this subsection believes the public can be better
served, the minister or person designated in writing by the minister
for the purposes of this subsection may appoint a person as agent, or
contract with a person to act as agent, to serve an area on the terms
and conditions, including remuneration, the minister or person
designated in writing by the minister for the purposes of this
subsection considers appropriate.






Casual import of liquor




19

(1)


In this section and section 20:



"casual importer"

means an individual who brings from outside Canada into British
Columbia liquor that is intended




(a)

for the individual's own consumption,




(b)

for consumption by another individual at the first individual's
expense, or




(c)

on behalf of or as the agent for a principal for consumption by the
principal or by another individual at the principal's expense;



"customs officer"

means an officer as defined in section 2 of the

Customs Act

(Canada) who is employed at a customs office in British Columbia.




(2)

A casual importer must immediately, at the time of bringing liquor
into British Columbia,




(a)

surrender the liquor to a customs officer as agent of the branch, and




(b)

provide the customs officer with all information that is required by
the customs officer regarding the liquor.




(3)

Liquor surrendered under subsection (2) must be sold and released to
the casual importer by the customs officer as agent of the branch if




(a)

the casual importer complies with subsection (2) (b) and pays the
customs officer the amount set under subsection (4) (a), and




(b)

no restriction under subsection (4) (b) applies.




(4)

The general manager may, by order,




(a)

set amounts for the purposes of subsection (3) (a), and




(b)

establish restrictions on the quantity of liquor that may be sold to a
casual importer on any one entry of the casual importer into British
Columbia unless the sale is specifically authorized in accordance with
the order.






Agreements for collection of amounts at customs




20

(1)


The minister, on behalf of the government, may enter into an agreement
with the government of Canada respecting the administration and
enforcement of this Act by customs officers in relation to liquor
referred to in section 19.




(2)

An agreement under subsection (1) may do the following:




(a)

authorize payment from the consolidated revenue fund of a fee to be
paid to or, despite section 14 (1) of the

Financial Administration Act

, retained by the government of Canada for its services under the
agreement;




(b)

authorize the government of Canada to make refunds to casual importers
of amounts considered by a customs officer to be refundable in
accordance with the agreement, which refunds must then be offset by
the government of Canada from amounts collected under the agreement or
repaid to the government of Canada from the consolidated revenue fund;




(c)

provide for the detention of liquor surrendered under section 19 (2)
and its release to the branch if the requirements of section 19 (2)
(b) are not met or the amount referred to in section 19 (3) is not
paid.




(3)

A customs officer acting under an agreement under this section is an
agent of the government for the purposes of this Act.




(4)

An action or proceeding must not be brought against a customs officer
referred to in subsection (3) for anything done or omitted to be done
in good faith by the customs officer




(a)

in the performance or intended performance of any duty under this Act
or an agreement under this section, or




(b)

in the exercise or intended exercise of any power under this Act or an
agreement under this section.




(5)

Subsection (4) does not absolve the government from vicarious
liability because of an act or omission for which the government would
have been liable had that subsection not been in force.






Duty free liquor stores




21

(1)


The general manager may establish duty free liquor stores, which may
include a ship chandler, in British Columbia to sell liquor solely to
persons leaving Canada.




(2)

The general manager may establish prices at which liquor may be sold
in those stores and make the orders as to their operation the general
manager considers necessary.






Repealed




22


[Repealed 2014-13-43.]






Price reductions




23


If a particular brand or size of package of liquor has been delisted
or is otherwise to be removed from the market, the general manager may
reduce its retail price in order to clear the inventory.






Conduct of stores




24

(1)


The sale of liquor and products at a liquor store must be conducted by
a person appointed under this Act, to be known as a "store manager".




(2)

Under the direction of the general manager the store manager is
responsible for carrying out this Act and the regulations as they
relate to the conduct of the liquor store and the sale of liquor and
products.




(3)

A store manager or a person acting as the clerk or employee of, or in
any capacity for a store manager must not sell liquor in another place
or at another time or otherwise than as authorized under this Act.




(4)

A store manager may accept returned liquor and refund the purchase
price if satisfied that




(a)

liquor has not been opened or tampered with, and is being returned for
a good reason, or




(b)

the liquor is defective.






Sales by store managers




25

(1)


Except as provided in this Act or the

Liquor Control and Licensing Act

, a store manager may sell to a person not disqualified under this Act
the liquor that person requests.




(2)

Liquor sold under this section must not be delivered to a purchaser
until




(a)

the purchaser has paid for the liquor,




(b)

in the case of a licensee, the licensee has established a line of
credit on terms satisfactory to the general manager, and the liquor is
sold on those terms, or




(c)

in the case of a person operating a delivery service, the person has
entered into an operating agreement with the general manager on terms
that include provision for the establishment of a line of credit
satisfactory to the general manager, and the liquor is sold on those
terms.






Direct shipping




26


The general manager may arrange to have liquor shipped direct from a
manufacturer, warehouse or liquor store to a person, licensee, liquor
store or agency store, subject to the orders the general manager
makes.






Sales




27

(1)


A store manager may sell liquor to a licensee for resale in accordance
with the

Liquor Control and Licensing Act

and the regulations under it.




(2)

The general manager may stipulate the liquor store at which a licensee
or agent must place orders and take deliveries and the dates and times
the licensee or agent must take deliveries.




(3)

Subject to the regulations and on special order, a person or licensee
may purchase, and the general manager may process the purchase of,




(a)

a liquor that is not listed on the liquor store's list of liquors for
sale, or




(b)

a size of package that is not available at a liquor store.






Opening of liquor stores




28


The general manager may specify for each liquor store or agency store
the days and hours that store must remain open for the sale of liquor.






General manager and others prohibited from liquor interests




29

(1)


An officer or employee of the branch or the general manager must not
solicit or receive, directly or indirectly, a commission, remuneration
or gift from a person who has sold, is selling or is offering for sale
liquor or other products or services offered for purchase or purchased
by the branch.




(2)

A person selling or offering for sale liquor or other products or
services to, or purchasing liquor or other products or services for
resale or reuse from, the general manager must not directly or
indirectly offer to pay a commission, profit or remuneration or make a
gift to the general manager or an officer or employee of the branch.






Annual report




30

(1)


The general manager must report to the minister as to the
administration or enforcement of this Act as the minister requires.




(2)

The general manager must also prepare and forward annually to the
minister a report for the 12 month period ending on March 31
of the year in which the report is made.




(3)

The annual report must contain the following:




(a)

a report of the operations of the branch for that period;




(b)

a financial statement of the branch showing its assets and liabilities
at the end of that period and the results of its operations for that
period, prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles applied on a basis satisfactory to the Comptroller General;




(c)

other information requested by the minister.




(4)

The minister must lay the report before the Legislative Assembly if it
is then sitting, and, if it is not sitting, within 15 days after
the start of the first session in the following calendar year.






Receipts and financial management




31

(1)


Money received from




(a)

sale of liquor, and




(b)

otherwise arising out of the administration of this Act,


must at the close of each day's business be applied, first, for the
administration of or for any of the purposes of this Act, and after
that application, any balance remaining must be paid promptly into the
consolidated revenue fund.




(2)

If money received under subsection (1) is insufficient for the
administration or any of the purposes of this Act, the amount of the
deficiency must be advanced from the consolidated revenue fund in
accordance with arrangements made by the Minister of Finance.




(3)

For the purposes of subsection (2)




(a)

each advance from the consolidated revenue fund must be recorded to
the satisfaction of the Minister of Finance and reported to that
minister, and




(b)

the Comptroller General may direct the methods and procedures to be
employed in administering this section.




(4)

This section applies despite any other Act, including the

Financial Administration Act

.






Orders




32


If authorized by this Act, the minister or the general manager may
make orders.






Administration of oaths




33


The general manager, a store manager and an official authorized by the
general manager to issue permits and licences under this Act may
administer an oath and take an affidavit required under this Act.






Certified copies of documents as evidence




34


A certified copy of an order of the general manager purporting to be
signed by the general manager must be received in a court in British
Columbia as evidence of the original order of which it purports to be
a copy.






General offence and penalty




35


A person who contravenes a provision of this Act or the regulations
commits an offence, and if no other penalty is provided, is liable on
conviction to the penalties provided in the

Offence Act

.






Access to information




36


For the purposes of section 21 (1) (b) of the

Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act

, information in the custody or under the control of the branch,
whether or not supplied to the branch, is deemed to be supplied to the
branch implicitly or explicitly in confidence, if the information
concerns the branch's




(a)

acquisition of liquor from a manufacturer, manufacturer's agent,
distributor, authorized importer of liquor or other person who
supplies liquor to the branch, or




(b)

sale of liquor acquired by the branch from a person referred to in
paragraph (a).






Power to make regulations




37

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
section 41 of the

Interpretation Act

.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations as follows:




(a)

respecting appeals under section 16;




(b)

respecting any matter considered by the Lieutenant Governor in Council
to be necessary or advisable to carry out the intent and purpose of an
agreement under section 20.






No refunds — money paid in respect of liquor




38

(1)


A person who, before February 9, 1995, paid money to the government
under this Act in respect of liquor that was brought within the
boundaries of or sent into or received in British Columbia for use,
sale or other disposition by the person in or in relation to the
person's commercial airline business, is not entitled, whether or not
the use, sale or other disposition occurred or was intended to occur
within the boundaries of British Columbia, to a refund of or any
restitution for the money that was so paid.




(2)

For the purpose of subsection (1), a person paid money to the
government under this Act if the person paid money in respect of
liquor, whether or not




(a)

there was a legal liability to pay the money under this Act, or




(b)

the money was paid under protest.




(3)

Subsection (1) applies despite any enactment or any judgment, order,
direction or declaration of a court in Canada to the contrary, and an
action or other proceeding must not be brought or continued to recover
any refund of or restitution for the money referred to in that
subsection.




(4)

Money referred to in subsection (1) is deemed to be the property of
the government.




