




Mineral Land Tax Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 290






Definitions




1


In this Act:



"administrator"

means the Assessor of Mineral Land Tax appointed under this Act or
other person designated in writing by the minister for the purposes of
this Act;


"Crown land"
means Crown land as defined in the

Land Act

;



"designated mineral"

means any mineral that is designated by order of the administrator;



"freehold mineral interest"

means the estate or interest of a person, other than the government,
in a mineral on or below the surface of mineral land whether or not
that estate or interest is registered as a charge against the title of
that land;


"mineral"
means any nonliving substance formed by the processes of nature that
occurs in, on or under land, of any chemical or physical state, but
does not include soil, earth, stone used for building or construction,
limestone, dolomite, marble, shale, clay, sand, gravel, volcanic ash,
diatomaceous earth, marl, peat, surface water and ground water;



"mineral land"

means land, other than Crown land and land comprising a right of way,
station ground, yard or terminal of a railway, in respect of which




(a)

a mineral is, or may be, located, or




(b)

a person has the right to work, win or carry away a mineral;


"minister"
includes a person designated in writing by the minister;


"owner"
includes a person who has the right to work, win or carry away
minerals from mineral land;


"parcel"
means a parcel as defined in the

Land Title Act

;



"production area"

means a portion of British Columbia designated by order of the
administrator under section 2 to be a production area.






Designation of production area




2

(1)


The administrator may, by order, designate mineral land to be a
production area for the purposes of this Act.




(2)

Despite the definition of mineral land, the administrator may include
in a production area land comprising a right of way, station ground,
yard or terminal of a railway.




(3)

In an order under subsection (1) or in any subsequent order, the
administrator may designate a mineral as being deemed to be contained
or to have been contained in a production area and then the designated
mineral is deemed to be contained or to have been contained in, on or
under mineral land located in that production area.






Mineral land tax




3

(1)


Not later than July 2 in every year, an owner of mineral land must pay
to the minister a tax at one of the following rates:




(a)

$1.25 per ha if the owner's total mineral land comprises 20 235
ha or less;




(b)

$1.98 per ha if the owner's total mineral land comprises more than
20 235 ha but not more than 40 470 ha;




(c)

$2.70 per ha if the owner's total mineral land comprises more than
40 470 ha but not more than 101 171 ha;




(d)

$3.46 per ha if the owner's total mineral land comprises more than
101 171 ha but not more than 202 343 ha;




(e)

$4.20 per ha if the owner's total mineral land comprises more than
202 343 ha but not more than 404 686 ha;




(f)

$4.94 per ha if the owner's total mineral land comprises more than
404 686 ha.




(2)

No tax is payable under this Act if the mineral land




(a)

has an area less than 16.2 ha, or




(b)

is owned by a charity that has been registered under the

Income Tax Act

(Canada).




(3)

If an owner's mineral land is used for agricultural purposes, the
owner may apply to the administrator to have that land classified as
agricultural mineral land.




(4)

Neither subsection (2) nor subsection (3) applies if




(a)

the land is used for the exploration, development or production of
minerals,




(b)

the land is in a production area, or




(c)

the only interest that the owner has in the land is a freehold mineral
interest.




(5)

The administrator must classify the land as agricultural mineral land
if the administrator is satisfied that the land meets the prescribed
standards for agricultural mineral land.




(6)

Land classified as agricultural mineral land must be assessed under
this Act but no tax is payable for it for so long as it continues to
qualify as agricultural mineral land.




(7)

An owner of mineral land classified as agricultural mineral land whose
mineral land no longer meets the prescribed standards for agricultural
mineral land must notify the administrator not later than April 1
of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the land
ceased to meet those standards.






Nisg̱a'a exemption




3.1

(1)


In this section,
"Taxation Agreement"
has the same meaning as in section 6.1 of the

Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement Act

.




(2)

Despite section 3, a person is not subject to tax under this Act if
and to the extent that the Taxation Agreement provides that the person
is not subject to tax under this Act.






Treaty first nation exemption




3.2

(1)


[Repealed 2011-11-60.]




(2)

Despite section 3, a person is not subject to tax under this Act if
and to the extent that a tax treatment agreement provides that the
person is not subject to tax under this Act.






Mineral land tax in production area




4

(1)


Not later than July 2 in every year, an owner of a production area
must pay to the minister a tax at the rate of $4.94 per ha for each
hectare of the owner's production area.




(2)

If tax is payable under this section, no tax is payable under
section 3 on the same land.






Assessment of mineral land




5

(1)


Not later than May 1 in every year, the administrator must prepare a
mineral land tax assessment roll containing the information the
minister may specify.




(2)

In preparing the mineral land tax assessment roll, the administrator
may




(a)

in accordance with the regulations, group parcels, and




(b)

take the steps and use the sources of information the administrator
considers necessary.




(3)

The administrator must determine the value of production areas in
accordance with the regulations.




(4)

Not later than May 1 in every year, the administrator must send, to
every owner who is shown on the mineral land tax assessment roll,




(a)

by mail, or




(b)

with the written agreement of the owner, by another form of delivery,


a notice of mineral land tax assessment containing the information
that is in the mineral land tax assessment roll regarding the parcel
being taxed.




(4.1)

Despite subsection (4), the administrator may decline to send a notice
of mineral land tax assessment to an owner if the mineral land tax
levied in the year in respect of the parcel is less than the
prescribed amount.




(5)

On the sending of the notice under subsection (4), mineral land tax is
deemed to have been assessed and levied.




(6)

[Repealed 2004-40-36.]






Information for assessment




6

(1)


Within 21 days after receiving the question or demand, the following
persons must, to the best of their knowledge and ability, answer a
question asked and supply information demanded by the administrator
for the purpose of making an assessment under this Act:




(a)

an owner with respect to mineral land;




(b)

a person who, in the opinion of the administrator, is an owner with
respect to mineral land.




(2)

The administrator is not bound by an answer or information given to
the administrator under this section.




(3)

[Repealed 2023-23-132.]




(4)

Within 60 days after the occurrence an owner of mineral land must
notify the administrator of




(a)

a sale, transfer, assignment or other disposition of an interest in
that owner's mineral land, and




(b)

a change in that owner's mailing address.






Inspection for purposes of Act




7

(1)


An owner must keep adequate books and records for the purposes of this
Act.




(2)

If, in the opinion of the administrator, the books or records kept by
an owner are inadequate for the purposes of this Act, the
administrator may specify the books and records to be kept by that
owner.




(3)

A person authorized in writing by the minister for a purpose relating
to the administration and enforcement of this Act may do any or all of
the following:




(a)

at reasonable times, enter any land, premises or place and inspect and
examine property, including books, records, writings or other
documents kept there;




(b)

require the owner, occupier or person in charge of the land, premises
or place to give the authorized person all reasonable assistance in
connection with the inspection or examination and to answer all proper
questions relating to the inspection or examination;




(c)

require the owner, occupier or person in charge of the land, premises
or place to attend at the land, premises or place with the authorized
person;




(d)

if, during the course of an inspection or examination it appears to
the authorized person that an offence under this Act has been or is
being committed, seize and take away books, records, writings or other
documents and retain them until their production in a court proceeding
is required.






Liability for tax




8

(1)


Not later than July 2 in the year that an owner receives a notice of
mineral land tax assessment under section 5 (4), the owner must pay to
the minister the amount of mineral land tax levied in the notice.




(2)

[Repealed 2004-40-37.]




(3)

If mineral land is owned by more than one owner, the owners are
jointly liable for the mineral land tax.




(4)

Despite sections 3 and 4, an owner is not liable to pay taxes imposed
for a year if the administrator has declined under section 5 (4.1) to
send a notice of mineral land tax assessment to the owner in respect
of the taxes payable for the year.






Delinquent taxes




9


Mineral land tax levied under this Act and not paid on or before
July 31 in the year that it is levied is delinquent.






Tax forms lien and charge




10

(1)


Mineral land tax assessed and levied under this Act




(a)

forms a lien and charge in favour of the government on all minerals
and mineral land owned by the owner who is liable to pay the tax, and




(b)

has priority over all other claims, except claims secured by
registered liens, charges or encumbrances on the minerals or mineral
land.




(2)

A lien and charge created by this section and its priority is not lost
or impaired by




(a)

neglect, omission or error of the administrator,




(b)

the taking or failure to take proceedings to recover mineral land tax
that is not paid, or




(c)

the tender or acceptance of any partial payment of mineral land tax.






Certificate of delinquent taxes




11

(1)


If mineral land tax or any portion of mineral land tax is delinquent,
the administrator may issue a certificate stating that the tax is
delinquent, the amount of it that is unpaid, including interest, and
the name of the person liable to pay it.




(2)

The administrator may do either or both of the following:




(a)

file the certificate with the Supreme Court and, on filing the
certificate has the same effect and all proceedings may be taken on it
as if it were a judgment of the court for the recovery of a debt of
the amount stated in the certificate against the owner named in it;




(b)

issue a warrant to a person for the purpose of levying the amount of
mineral land tax stated in the certificate, with costs, by distress of
the goods and chattels of the owner liable to pay the mineral land tax
or of any goods and chattels in the owner's possession, wherever they
may be found in British Columbia or of any goods and chattels found on
the owner's premises or in the possession of any other occupant of the
premises and that would be subject to distress for arrears of rent due
to a landlord.




(3)

The costs chargeable for distress under subsection (2) (b) are those
payable as between landlord and tenant.




(4)

If the property distrained is sold for more than the amount of the
mineral land tax, interest and costs and if no claim to the surplus is
made by any other person on the ground that the property sold belonged
to that person or that that person was entitled by lien or other right
to the surplus, the surplus must be paid over to the owner who was
liable to pay the delinquent mineral land tax.




(5)

If a claim for a surplus is made by a person other than the owner for
whose mineral land tax the property was distrained and the claim is
admitted by the owner, the surplus must be paid to that other person
and that person's receipt must be taken for it.




(6)

If a claim for a surplus is contested, the administrator must retain
the surplus until the rights of the parties are determined.






Recovery of taxes




12


If




(a)

mineral land tax is levied but not paid, and




(b)

a mineral is severed from the mineral land for which the mineral land
tax is levied and unpaid,


the amount of the unpaid mineral land tax may be recovered in a court
as a debt due to the government and the court may make an order as to
costs of an action in favour of or against the government as it
considers appropriate.






Forfeiture




13

(1)


If mineral land tax assessed and levied under this Act remains unpaid
on August 1 in the year following the year that it was levied,




(a)

a penalty of $50 must be added, and the penalty is deemed to form part
of the unpaid tax, and




(b)

the minerals and the right to work, win or carry away the minerals
located in, under or on the mineral land for which the mineral land
tax is not paid becomes subject to forfeiture.




(2)

If minerals and the right to work, win or carry away minerals are
subject to forfeiture under subsection (1), the administrator must
publish in the Gazette a notice containing the following:




(a)

the name and address of




(i)

every owner whose name appears in the mineral land tax assessment roll
as an owner of the minerals and the right to work, win or carry away
the minerals, and




(ii)

every person who has a registered claim or title to or charge on the
minerals and the right to work, win or carry away the minerals;




(b)

a brief description of the mineral land for which the mineral land tax
was levied and remains unpaid;




(c)

the amount of the assessment and the amount of the unpaid mineral land
tax;




(d)

a statement that, unless the unpaid mineral land taxes, together with
any interest, are paid within 90 days from the date the notice is
published in the Gazette, the minerals and the right to work, win and
carry away the minerals, are forfeited to the government.




(3)

The administrator must serve the notice, by registered mail, on every
person named in the notice published under subsection (2) (a).




(4)

If the amount of unpaid taxes specified in a notice under subsection
(2) is not paid within 90 days from the date the notice is published
in the Gazette, the minerals and the right to work, win or carry away
the minerals located in, under or on the mineral land for which the
mineral land tax is not paid, is absolutely forfeited to and vested in
the government free and clear of all encumbrances.




(5)

The administrator must then issue a certificate of forfeiture in a
form established by the minister and file it in the appropriate land
title office.




(6)

If a certificate of forfeiture is issued under subsection (5), the
administrator must cancel all taxes and interest due with respect to
the minerals vested in the government.




(7)

A forfeiture under this Act is deemed not to be a forfeiture under the

Escheat Act

.




(8)

If the administrator considers that a forfeiture under this section
has occurred through the inadvertence or mistake of any person, the
Lieutenant Governor in Council may, subject to payment of all unpaid
taxes, grant to the former owner the interest in the minerals and the
right to work, win or carry them away that had forfeited to the
government under this section.




(9)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council must not make a grant under
subsection (8) if, after the date a certificate of forfeiture has been
filed in a land title office under subsection (5), a person has




(a)

located or acquired a claim under the

Mineral Tenure Act

,




(b)

been issued a licence under section 12 of the

Coal Act

, or




(c)

been issued a permit, drilling licence or lease under the

Petroleum and Natural Gas Act

,


relating to rights that the former owner had in the minerals and the
right to work, win or carry them away.






Demand on third parties




14

(1)


If the administrator has knowledge or suspects that a person is or is
about to become indebted to an owner who is liable to pay mineral land
tax under this Act, the administrator may demand of that person that
all or part of the money otherwise payable by that person to the owner
be paid over to the administrator on account of the owner's liability
under this Act and that person must immediately pay the money to the
administrator.




(2)

The receipt of the administrator for money paid by a person under
subsection (1) discharges the person's liability to the owner to the
extent of the amount referred to in the receipt.




(3)

A person discharging a liability to an owner after receiving a demand
under this section is personally liable to the government to the
extent of




(a)

the liability discharged as between the person and the owner, or




(b)

the liability of the owner for taxes, interest and penalty,

whichever is the lesser amount.





Exercise of powers




15


The powers conferred by this Act for the recovery and collection of
mineral land tax, the forfeiture of minerals or the prohibition of
mining operations may be exercised separately, concurrently or
cumulatively, and the liability of an owner for the payment of mineral
land tax under this Act is not affected by the fact that a fine or
penalty has been imposed on or paid by the owner or by the fact that
an order has been made under section 13, for a contravention of
this Act.






Overpayment




16

(1)


If it appears to the minister that tax has been overpaid by an owner,
the minister must, on the certificate of the administrator, refund the
overpaid amount to the owner from the consolidated revenue fund.




(2)

If any further mineral land tax payable by that owner has been levied,
the overpaid amount must, to that extent, be applied in satisfaction
of the mineral land tax and notice must be given to the owner
accompanied by the refund of any remainder of the overpaid amount
remaining unapplied.




(3)

A refund under this section may be made with the notice of assessment
or after giving the notice of assessment.






Interest on unpaid taxes




17


Mineral land tax that is unpaid on July 31 of the year in which it was
levied bears interest after that date until paid, at an annual rate
prescribed by the Lieutenant Governor in Council, and all interest
accrued is deemed to form part of the unpaid tax.






Surrender of interest in mineral land




18


Subject to the conditions the Lieutenant Governor in Council may
prescribe, an owner may surrender all or part of an interest in
mineral land to the government.






Staff and employees




19


An assessor of mineral land tax, and other employees required for the
purposes of this Act, may be appointed under the

Public Service Act

.






Information sharing




19.1

(1)


In this section:



"authorized person"

means a person who is engaged or employed, or was formerly engaged or
employed, by or on behalf of the government, to assist in carrying out
the provisions of this Act;



"confidential information"

means information of any kind and in any form, relating to one or more
persons,




(a)

that is obtained for the purposes of this Act by or on behalf of the
minister, or




(b)

that is prepared from information referred to in paragraph (a),


but does not include information that does not directly or indirectly
reveal the identity of the person to whom the information relates;


"minister"
means the minister responsible for the administration of the

Financial Administration Act

;


"official"
means any person




(a)

who is employed in the service of, is engaged by or on behalf of, or
occupies a position of responsibility in the service of the government
of British Columbia, another province or Canada, or




(b)

who was formerly so employed or engaged or formerly occupied such a
position;



"police officer"

means a police officer as defined in section 462.48 (17) of the

Criminal Code

.




(2)

Despite any other enactment or law, except as authorized by this
section, an official must not




(a)

knowingly provide, or knowingly allow to be provided, any confidential
information to any person,




(b)

knowingly allow any person to have access to any confidential
information, or




(c)

knowingly use any confidential information otherwise than in the
course of the administration and enforcement of this Act or for a
purpose for which it was provided under this section.




(3)

Despite any other enactment or law, an official must not be required,
in connection with any legal proceedings, to give or produce evidence
relating to any confidential information.




(4)

Subsections (2) and (3) do not apply in relation to the following:




(a)

criminal proceedings that have been commenced by the laying of an
information or the preferring of an indictment under an Act of the
Parliament of Canada;




(b)

any legal proceedings relating to the administration or enforcement of
any enactment of British Columbia, another province or Canada that
provides for the imposition or collection of a tax or duty.




(5)

Subject to subsection (6), an official may do one or more of the
following:




(a)

provide to any person confidential information that can reasonably be
considered necessary for the purposes of the administration or
enforcement of this Act, solely for those purposes;




(b)

provide to any person confidential information that can reasonably be
considered necessary for the purposes of determining




(i)

any tax, interest, penalty or other amount that is or may become
payable by the person under this Act,




(ii)

any exemption, refund or credit to which the person is or may become
entitled under this Act, or




(iii)

any other amount that is relevant for the purposes of a determination
under subparagraph (i) or (ii);




(c)

provide confidential information as follows:




(i)

to an official of the Department of Finance of the government of
Canada, solely for the purposes of the formulation or evaluation of
fiscal policy;




(ii)

to an official solely for the purposes of the initial implementation
of a fiscal policy;




(iii)

to an official of the ministry of the minister, solely for the
purposes of the formulation or evaluation of fiscal policy;




(iv)

to an official of the ministry of the minister responsible for the
administration of the

Ministry of Energy and Mines Act

, solely for the purposes of the formulation or evaluation of policy
under this Act;




(v)

to an official solely for the purposes of the administration or
enforcement of an enactment of British Columbia that provides for the
imposition or collection of a tax or duty;




(vi)

to an official solely for the purposes of the administration or
enforcement of an Act of the Parliament of Canada, or of an enactment
of another province, that provides for the imposition or collection of
a tax or duty;




(vii)

to an official solely for the purposes of the compilation of
statistical information by the government or the government of Canada,
as the case may be;




(viii)

to an official solely for the purposes of setting off, against any sum
of money that may be due or payable by the government, a debt due to
the government;




(ix)

to an official solely for the purposes of the

Escheat Act

;




(x)

to an official solely for the purposes of the reversion, escheat or
surrender to the government, or acquisition by the government, of a
Crown granted 2 post claim referred to in section 26 of the

Mineral Tenure Act

or in section 3.1 of the Mineral Tenure Act Regulation,
B.C. Reg. 529/2004;




(d)

provide confidential information, or allow inspection of or access to
confidential information, as the case may be, under, and solely for
the purposes of,




(i)

sections 44 (1) and 61 (1) of the

Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act

, or




(ii)

sections 15, 16 and 17 of the

Auditor General Act

;




(e)

provide confidential information relating to a person




(i)

to the person, and




(ii)

with the consent of the person, to any other person;




(f)

use confidential information to compile information in a form that
does not directly or indirectly reveal the identity of the person to
whom the information relates;




(g)

provide confidential information solely for the purposes of sections
17, 18 and 19 of the

Financial Administration Act

;




(h)

use, or provide to any person, confidential information solely for a
purpose relating to the supervision, evaluation or discipline of an
authorized person by the government in respect of a period during
which the authorized person was employed by, or engaged by or on
behalf of, the government to assist in the administration or
enforcement of this Act, to the extent that the information is
relevant for the purpose;




(i)

provide confidential information to a police officer, solely for the
purposes of an investigation into whether an offence has been
committed under the

Criminal Code

, or the laying of an information or the preferring of an indictment,
if




(i)

the confidential information can reasonably be considered necessary
for the purpose of ascertaining, with respect to an official, or with
respect to any person related to the official,




(A)

the circumstances in which an offence under the

Criminal Code

may have been committed, or




(B)

the identity of the person who may have committed an offence under the

Criminal Code

,




(ii)

the official was or is engaged in the administration or enforcement of
this Act, and




(iii)

the offence can reasonably be considered to be related to the
administration or enforcement of this Act;




(j)

provide confidential information to, or allow inspection of or access
to confidential information by, any person otherwise legally entitled
to the information under a prescribed enactment of British Columbia,
solely for the purposes for which the person is entitled to the
information.




(6)

Except in accordance with an information-sharing agreement entered
into under section 19.2, an official must not, under subsection (5)
(a) to (c) and (g) to (j) of this section, provide confidential
information to, or allow inspection of or access to confidential
information by,




(a)

an official of a public body, as defined in the

Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act

, other than the ministry of the minister or the ministry of the
minister responsible for the administration of the

Ministry of Energy and Mines Act

,




(b)

an official of the government of Canada, or




(c)

an official of the government of another province.




(7)

An official may provide to appropriate persons any confidential
information relating to imminent danger of death or physical injury to
any individual.




(8)

The person who presides at a legal proceeding relating to the
supervision, evaluation or discipline of an authorized person may make
orders necessary to ensure that confidential information is not used
or provided to any person for any purpose unrelated to the proceeding,
including




(a)

an order that the proceeding be held in private,




(b)

an order banning publication of the confidential information,




(c)

an order to conceal the identity of the person to whom the
confidential information relates, and




(d)

an order sealing the records of the proceeding.




(9)

To the extent of any inconsistency or conflict with section 32 or 33
of the

Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act

, this section applies despite that Act.






Information-sharing agreements




19.2

(1)


In this section:



"confidential information"

has the same meaning as in section 19.1;



"information-sharing agreement"

means an agreement or arrangement to exchange, by electronic data
transmission, electronic data matching or any other means, information
for a purpose described in section 19.1 (5);


"minister"
has the same meaning as in section 19.1.




(2)

The minister may enter into an information-sharing agreement with




(a)

a public body as defined in the

Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act

,




(b)

the government of Canada or an agency of that government, or




(c)

the government of a province or other jurisdiction in Canada or an
agency of that government.




(3)

Subject to subsection (4), confidential information obtained by the
minister under an information-sharing agreement may be used or
disclosed only for the purposes for which it was obtained under the
applicable agreement.




(4)

Subsection (3) does not prevent




(a)

any confidential information obtained by the minister under an
information-sharing agreement with the government of Canada or an
agency of that government from being used or disclosed for the purpose
of administering and enforcing an enactment administered by the
minister that provides for the imposition or collection of a tax or
duty, or




(b)

any confidential information obtained by the minister under an
information-sharing agreement from being used or disclosed for the
purpose of administering and enforcing an Act of the Parliament of
Canada that provides for the imposition or collection of a tax or
duty.




(5)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may prescribe terms and conditions
to be included in the information-sharing agreements entered into by
the minister.




(6)

For the purposes of section 19.1 (6), an information-sharing agreement
entered into before the coming into force of this section is
considered to be an information-sharing agreement entered into by the
minister under this section.






Offences in relation to confidential information




19.3

(1)


A person commits an offence if the person




(a)

contravenes section 19.1 (2), or




(b)

knowingly contravenes an order made under section 19.1 (8).




(2)

A person commits an offence if




(a)

the person has been provided with confidential information for a
particular purpose under section 19.1 (5) (a) to (d),
(g), (h) or (j), and




(b)

the person knowingly, for a purpose other than the purpose referred to
in paragraph (a), uses the information, provides the information or
allows the information to be provided to any person or allows any
person to access the information.




(3)

A person who commits an offence under subsection (1) or (2) is liable,
on conviction, to one or both of the following:




(a)

a fine of not more than $5 000;




(b)

imprisonment for not more than 12 months.






Offence and penalty




20

(1)


A person who knowingly or wilfully does any of the following commits
an offence:




(a)

makes or participates in, assents to or acquiesces in the making of a
false or deceptive statement in a return, information, report or
answer delivered or made by the person as required under this Act;




(b)

to evade payment of mineral land tax under this Act, destroys, alters,
mutilates, secretes or otherwise disposes of a record, book or account
required to be maintained under this Act;




(c)

omits or participates in, assents to or acquiesces in the omission to
enter material information in a record, book or account required to be
maintained under this Act.




(2)

A person who commits an offence under subsection (1) is liable, on
conviction, to a fine of not less than $500 and not more than $5 000.




(3)

A person who refuses or neglects to do any of the following commits an
offence:




(a)

to answer a question or provide information to the best of the
person's knowledge and ability immediately after the person is
required to do so under this Act;




(b)

to provide the administrator or any other person authorized by the
minister under section 7 with access and reasonable assistance to
examine, inspect and take extracts from a record, book or account
required to be maintained under this Act;




(c)

to attend with and answer questions asked by the administrator or
other person authorized by the minister under section 7 to examine,
inspect and take extracts from a record, book or account required to
be maintained under this Act.




(4)

A person who commits an offence under subsection (3) is liable, on
conviction, to a fine of $50 for every day that the offence is
committed.




(5)

If a corporation commits an offence under this Act, an officer,
director, employee or agent of the corporation who directed,
authorized, assented to, acquiesced or participated in the commission
of the offence is, whether or not the corporation is prosecuted for
the offence, a party to and commits the offence, but this subsection
does not affect the liability of the corporation for the same offence.




(6)

An information for an offence under this Act must not be laid after 12
months from the time the matter of the offence came to the attention
of the administrator.






Power to make regulations




21

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
section 41 of the

Interpretation Act

.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations as follows:




(a)

prescribing anything that by this Act is to be prescribed or is to be
determined or regulated by regulation;




(b)

prescribing rules, guidelines, criteria and valuation factors to be
used for the purpose of making assessments under this Act;




(c)

defining expressions used, but not defined, in this Act;




(d)

extending or changing a time or deadline that is provided for in this
Act;




(e)

prescribing the nature of the evidence required to establish facts
relevant to assessments of mineral land under this Act;




(f)

prescribing procedures to be followed for




(i)

supplementary mineral land assessment and taxes,




(ii)

correcting errors in mineral land assessment and tax levies, and




(iii)

serving notices of mineral land assessment, tax levies and other
documents required to be served or mailed under this Act on or to
persons who cannot be located;




(g)

prescribing terms and conditions subject to which all or part of an
interest in mineral land may be surrendered under section 18.






Forms




22


The minister may, by order,




(a)

establish a form that is, under this Act, required to be established,
and




(b)

establish a procedural rule pertaining to the use of a form required
to be used under this Act.




