




Ministry of Energy and Mines Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 298






Ministry of Energy, Mines and Petroleum Resources




1

(1)


There is to be a ministry of the public service called the Ministry of
Energy and Mines.




(2)

The minister is to preside over and be responsible to the Lieutenant
Governor in Council for the direction of the ministry.




(3)

The minister may establish within the ministry any branches or
divisions the minister considers advisable.






Deputy and employees




2

(1)


A deputy minister of the ministry and other employees required to
carry out the proper business of the ministry may be appointed under
the

Public Service Act

.




(2)

The minister may contract with any person to provide consultant,
specialist or temporary services to the ministry.






Restrictions on employees




3

(1)


A deputy minister or other employee in the ministry must not acquire,
directly or indirectly, any interest in any mining or petroleum
resource property, or the controlling interest in any corporation
carrying on a business relating to mining or petroleum resources in
British Columbia.




(2)

A deputy minister or other employee in the ministry must not, without
the minister's consent, hold any authority from the government for a
mineral or petroleum resource or their use, or engage or acquire any
interest in a business in British Columbia having as one of its
objects the exploration, development, production, storage or sale of
minerals or petroleum resources.




(3)

Despite subsections (1) and (2) or any Act, if the government has a
controlling interest in a corporation, a deputy minister or employee
of the ministry who is appointed by the corporation as a director or
officer of the corporation may, with the minister's consent, act as a
director or officer of that corporation.




(4)

A person referred to in subsection (3) must not accept remuneration
from the corporation other than reasonable travelling and out of
pocket expenses necessarily incurred in discharging duties.




(5)

Remuneration to which a director or officer of the corporation is
entitled as a director or officer must be paid by the corporation to
the consolidated revenue fund.






Duties and powers




4


The duties, powers and functions of the minister extend to and include
all matters relating to energy, mineral resources and petroleum
resources that are assigned to the minister by any Act or by the
Lieutenant Governor in Council, and that are not, by law or by the
Lieutenant Governor in Council, assigned to another minister,
ministry, branch or agency of the government.






Purpose and functions of ministry




5


The purpose and functions of the ministry are, under the direction of
the minister:




(a)

to prepare and develop comprehensive policies on energy, mineral and
petroleum resources in British Columbia, and to make reports and
recommendations for their implementation;




(b)

to initiate and carry out any investigation, research, study or
inventory respecting mineral and petroleum resources, and on energy
facilities and future requirements for British Columbia;




(c)

to collect and circulate the information acquired;




(d)

to administer Acts and regulations assigned to the minister under
section 4, and discharge other duties assigned to the minister by the
Lieutenant Governor in Council;




(e)

to regulate all mining activity;




(f)

to establish energy services for ministries of the government, and for
that purpose to obtain from them information about their projects,
programs and requirements involving energy.






Minister's powers on energy




6


To carry out duties, functions and powers relating to energy, the
minister may




(a)

acquire and dispose of property, and




(b)

expend capital sums required for the purpose of this section out of
money appropriated by the Legislature for the purpose.






Emergency demand restraint measures




7

(1)


In this section:



"energy resources"

includes electricity, petroleum products and natural gas;



"petroleum products"

means petroleum, gasoline, naphtha, benzene, kerosene, lubricating
oils, stove oil, fuel oil, furnace oil, paraffin, aviation fuels,
butane, propane and other liquefied petroleum gas, and all derivatives
of petroleum and all products obtained from petroleum, whether or not
blended with or added to other things.




(2)

If the minister considers that actual or anticipated shortages of
energy resources or disturbances in the energy resources markets
affect or may affect the social and economic well being of British
Columbia, the minister may declare in writing that an emergency under
this section exists.




(3)

If the minister has made a declaration under subsection (2), the
minister may make regulations the minister considers necessary or
advisable for the purpose of controlling and regulating the use and
supply of, and the demand for, energy resources in British Columbia.




(4)

The power given by subsection (3) includes but is not limited to the
power to make regulations referred to in sectionÂ 41 of the

Interpretation Act

.




(5)

A declaration under subsection (2) is a regulation under the

Regulations Act

.






Definitions for sections 8 to 8.5




7.1


In sections 8 to 8.5:



"investigation or inquiry"

means an investigation or inquiry authorized under section 8;



"investigator"

means a person employed under section 8 (2) (a) to initiate and carry
out an investigation or inquiry.






Investigations and inquiries




8

(1)


For the purposes of this section,

"administrative costs of carrying out the investigation or inquiry"

means




(a)

costs incurred by the person carrying out the investigation or inquiry
for the services of counsel, consultants and experts engaged by the
person in connection with the investigation or inquiry,




(b)

the remuneration of the person carrying out the investigation or
inquiry in an amount or at a rate that does not exceed an amount or
rate specified by the Lieutenant Governor in Council, and




(c)

any other necessary expenses, attributable to the investigation or
inquiry, that the Lieutenant Governor in Council specifies.




(2)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations authorizing
the minister, on prescribed terms, to




(a)

employ persons necessary to initiate and carry out investigations and
inquiries




(i)

under section 5 (b),




(ii)

into any government corporation, government society or government
agency specified in the order, or




(iii)

into any matter arising under any Act administered by the minister,




(b)

for the purposes of an investigation or inquiry, confer on
investigators




(i)

the powers set out in sections 8.2 to 8.4, and




(ii)

the protection set out in section 8.5,




(c)

order, in connection with an investigation or inquiry under paragraph
(a), that a corporation, society or agency of the government specified
in the order or its employee or any employee of the government or any
public officer answer questions and supply information relevant to the
investigation or inquiry, and




(d)

impose limits on the amounts that may be expended on an investigation
or inquiry by a person employed under paragraph (a).




(3)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may, in an order under subsection
(2),




(a)

authorize the minister or person carrying out the investigation or
inquiry to determine by whom, to whom, in what amount and at what time
the costs incidental to the investigation or inquiry, including the
administrative costs of carrying out the investigation or inquiry, are
to be paid, and




(b)

prescribe limits on, and the manner of determining the amount of, the
costs referred to in paragraph (a).






Application of sections 8.2 to 8.5




8.1


Sections 8.2 to 8.5 apply to an investigator only if




(a)

a regulation has been made under section 8 (2) (b) authorizing the
minister to confer on investigators the powers and protection referred
to in that section, and




(b)

the minister confers those powers and that protection on the
investigator.






Power to compel persons to answer questions and order disclosure




8.2

(1)


For the purposes of conducting an investigation or inquiry, an
investigator may make an order requiring a person, other than a person
described in section 8 (2) (c), to do either or both of the following:




(a)

attend, in person or by electronic means, before the investigator to
answer questions on oath or affirmation, or in any other manner;




(b)

produce for the investigator a record or thing in the person's
possession or control.




(2)

An investigator may apply to the Supreme Court for an order




(a)

directing a person to comply with an order made under subsection (1),
or




(b)

directing any directors and officers of a person to cause the person
to comply with an order made under subsection (1).






Maintenance of order at hearings




8.3

(1)


At an oral hearing, the investigator may make orders or give
directions that the investigator considers necessary for the
maintenance of order at the hearing, and, if any person disobeys or
fails to comply with any order or direction, the investigator may call
on the assistance of any peace officer to enforce the order or
direction.




(2)

A peace officer called on under subsection (1) may take any action
that is necessary to enforce the order or direction and may use such
force as is reasonably required for that purpose.




(3)

Without limiting subsection (1), the investigator, by order, may




(a)

impose restrictions on a person's continued participation in or
attendance at a hearing, and




(b)

exclude a person from further participation in or attendance at a
hearing until the investigator orders otherwise.






Contempt proceeding for uncooperative person




8.4

(1)


The failure or refusal of a person subject to an order under section
8.2 to do any of the following makes the person, on application to the
Supreme Court by an investigator, liable to be committed for contempt
as if in breach of an order or judgment of the Supreme Court:




(a)

attend before the investigator;




(b)

take an oath or make an affirmation;




(c)

answer questions;




(d)

produce records or things in the person's possession or control.




(2)

The failure or refusal of a person subject to an order or direction
under section 8.3 to comply with the order or direction makes the
person, on application to the Supreme Court by an investigator, liable
to be committed for contempt as if in breach of an order or judgment
of the Supreme Court.




(3)

Subsections (1) and (2) do not limit the conduct for which a finding
of contempt may be made by the Supreme Court.






Immunity protection




8.5

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), no legal proceeding for damages lies or may
be commenced or maintained against an investigator, or a person acting
on behalf of or under the direction of an investigator, because of
anything done or omitted




(a)

in the performance or intended performance of any duty under section
8, or




(b)

in the exercise or intended exercise of any power under sections 8.2
to 8.4.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply to a person referred to in that
subsection in relation to anything done or omitted by that person in
bad faith.






Right of entry, etc.




9

(1)


The minister, and each employee in the ministry authorized by the
minister, may enter any mining or petroleum resources property, and
any plant, office or facility relating to it, to make inquiries and
examinations, to inspect property and records and to take samples
required for the purpose of this Act.




(2)

A person who is an owner, holder, occupant or user of a mining or
petroleum resources property, and the person's managers and agents,
must admit to all parts of the property and every plant, office and
facility relating to it the minister and any employee of the ministry
for the purpose of this section.




(3)

A person who contravenes subsection (2) or refuses or neglects to do
anything to enable the minister or an employee of the ministry to make
an entry, inquiry, examination or inspection, make copies of records
or to take samples required for the purpose of this Act, commits an
offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of not less than $50 and
not more than $500 for each day the offence continues.






Right to information




10

(1)


In this section,
"petroleum resources"
includes petroleum products as defined by sectionÂ 7.




(2)

A person who is an owner, holder, occupant or user of a mining or
petroleum resources property, a person engaged in exploration for,
development, production, processing, refining, transporting, marketing
and selling of mineral or petroleum resources, and the person's agent,
must promptly supply data and answer in writing, to the best of the
person's knowledge and belief, official inquiries about the property
or work from the minister or a person authorized by the minister.




(3)

A person who contravenes this section commits an offence.






Privileged records




11

(1)


A record prepared or submitted by the deputy minister or another
employee of the ministry under the direction of the minister or under
the regulations is absolutely privileged.




(2)

No action or proceeding may be brought against the deputy minister,
other employee or another person employed or acting under this Act in
respect to a record referred to in subsection (1).






Agreements with other jurisdictions




12


With the consent of the Lieutenant Governor in Council, the minister
may enter into arrangements or agreements with Canada, with another
province or state or with their departments or agencies, that the
minister considers necessary or advisable to carry out the minister's
powers and duties, to exchange information and statistics or for any
other joint action.






Minister may publish prescribed information or documents




12.1

(1)


Without limiting any other power the minister may have to disclose
information, the minister may, in accordance with the regulations,
publish online or by other means any prescribed information or
documents or any prescribed classes of information or documents
relating to the administration of a prescribed enactment for which the
minister is responsible, other than personal information that, if
disclosed, would constitute an unreasonable invasion of personal
privacy as described in section 22 (2) to (4)
[disclosure harmful to personal privacy]
of the

Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act

.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply to




(a)

information or documents provided to or produced for an investigator
under section 8.2 of this Act, or




(b)

a record referred to in section 11 (1) of this Act.






Roads and other works to facilitate exploration and development




13


With the approval of the Lieutenant Governor in Council, the minister
may authorize loans, investments and the expenditure of money for the
design, construction, reconstruction and repair of bridges, roads,
rails, trails, utilities or other structures or works to facilitate
exploration and development of energy, mineral and petroleum resources
in British Columbia.






Cost recovery for roads and other works used for resource exploration
and development




13.1

(1)


In this section,
"vehicle"
means a device in, on or by which a person or thing is or may be
transported or drawn on a bridge, rail, road, trail, utility or other
structure or work except a device exempted from this definition under
the regulations.




(2)

The minister may establish and administer a system of cost recovery
for the use of bridges, roads, rails, trails, utilities or other
structures or works administered by the ministry that are used during
the exploration and development of energy, mineral and petroleum
resources in British Columbia by one or both of the following methods:




(a)

a system of tolls under the regulations;




(b)

a system of charges by contract with individual users.




(3)

If the minister establishes a system of tolls under subsection (2) for
the use of a bridge, road, rail, trail, utility or other structure or
work, a person must not




(a)

take or operate a vehicle through a toll station without paying the
toll applicable to the vehicle, or




(b)

take a vehicle onto or operate a vehicle on the bridge, rail, road,
trail, utility or structure without paying the toll applicable to the
vehicle.




(4)

Subsection (3) does not apply to a vehicle or class of vehicles
exempted by regulation from the application of that subsection.






Repealed




14-21


[Repealed 2022-14-17.]






Repealed




22


[Repealed 2000-23-43.]






Offence




22.1


A person who contravenes section 13.1 (3) commits an offence.






Offence Act




22.2


Section 5 of the

Offence Act

does not apply to this Act.






Power to make regulations




23

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
sectionÂ 41 of the

Interpretation Act

.




(1.1)

Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations as follows:




(a)

prescribing information or documents or classes of information or
documents that may be published under sectionÂ 12.1;




(b)

respecting the publication of information or documents or classes of
information or documents under sectionÂ 12.1, including
prescribing the criteria to be applied in determining whether to
publish information or documents or classes of information or
documents and the manner of publication;




(c)

prescribing enactments for the purposes of sectionÂ 12.1.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations as follows:




(a)

establishing a system of tolls to be administered by the minister for
the purposes of sectionÂ 13.1;




(b)

specifying which vehicles are exempted from the application of
sectionÂ 13.1;




(c)

respecting contracts entered into under section 13.1;




(d)

establishing rules governing the use of property administered by the
minister;




(e)

respecting the layout, design, construction, operation, use,
maintenance and deactivation of roads and other works designated under
sectionÂ 13.1.






Power of minister to make road use rules




24


The minister may make regulations respecting rules for the operation
and use of vehicles on a road or other work developed, operated or
maintained under this Act.




