




Motor Vehicle Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 318






Definitions




1


In this Act:


"accident"
includes an intentional collision;


"adult"
means a person who has reached 19 years of age;



"air contaminant"

means a solid, liquid, gas, odour or combination of any of them that
contributes to air pollution;



"air pollution"

means the presence in the outdoor atmosphere of an air contaminant in
quantities that may




(a)

cause discomfort to or endanger the health or safety of persons,




(b)

cause injury or damage to property or to plant or animal life, or




(c)

interfere with visibility or other normal conduct of transport or
business;



"blanket certificate"

has the same meaning as in the

Insurance (Vehicle) Act

;


"bus"
means a motor vehicle designed to carry more than 10 persons;



"certificate of insurance"

means a certificate issued under the

Insurance (Vehicle) Act

and to the holder of a licence, permit or any class of licence or
permit issued under this Act, whether issued as part of the licence or
permit or as a separate document;




"
certificate of service
"



includes an eCertificate of service as described in
section 82.2;




"commercial vehicle"

has the same meaning as commercial vehicle in the

Commercial Transport Act

;


"convicted"
has the same meaning as in section 30.1 of the

Insurance (Vehicle) Act

;



"dangerous article"

includes inflammable or corrosive liquids and liquefied petroleum gas;


"dealer"
means a motor dealer as defined in the

Motor Dealer Act

;


"director"
means the Director of Commercial Vehicle Safety appointed under
section 116.1;



"driver's certificate"

means a driver's certificate as defined in the

Insurance (Vehicle) Act

;



"emergency vehicle"

means any of the following:




(a)

a motor vehicle, or cycle as defined in Part 3, carrying rescue or
first aid equipment if there is an urgent emergency justifying a rate
of speed in excess of any maximum rate of speed provided for in this
Act;




(b)

a motor vehicle, or cycle as defined in Part 3, driven by a member of
a fire department in the discharge of the member's duties;




(c)

a motor vehicle, or cycle as defined in Part 3, driven by a peace
officer, constable or member of the police branch of Her Majesty's
Armed Forces in the discharge of the peace officer's, constable's or
member's duty;




(d)

a motor vehicle driven by a sheriff, in the discharge of the sheriff's
duties under the

Sheriff Act

, while transporting a person in the lawful custody of a sheriff;



"farm tractor"

means a motor vehicle designed and used primarily as an implement of
husbandry for drawing agricultural equipment;


"farmer"
means a person who resides on a farm and makes the person's principal
living by farming it;



"financial responsibility card"

means a card issued under section 111 (1);



"fine indebtedness"

means an indebtedness referred to in section 26 (1) (c);


"golf cart"
means a motor vehicle originally designed and manufactured to carry
golfers and their equipment;


"highway"
includes




(a)

every highway within the meaning of the

Transportation Act

,




(b)

every road, street, lane or right of way designed or intended for or
used by the general public for the passage of vehicles, and




(c)

every private place or passageway to which the public, for the purpose
of the parking or servicing of vehicles, has access or is invited,


but does not include an industrial road;



"implement of husbandry"

means a vehicle designed and adapted exclusively for use in
agricultural operations and includes a farm tractor and a trailer
towed by an implement of husbandry, but does not include




(a)

a vehicle used primarily to transport persons or property on a
highway, or




(b)

a bulldozer, grader or other vehicle of a similar nature designed for
nonagricultural purposes, whether it is being used exclusively in
connection with an agricultural operation or not;



"industrial road"

means industrial road as defined in the

Industrial Roads Act

, and includes a forest service road as defined in the

Forest Act

and land designated as a development road under section 139 (1) of the

Petroleum and Natural Gas Act

;



"industrial utility vehicle"

means a motor vehicle that




(a)

is used for work purposes, including industrial, maintenance or
landscaping purposes, and, at the time it was manufactured, was not
designed to conform to the standards prescribed in the

Motor Vehicle Safety Act

(Canada) for motor vehicles designed for use on a highway, or




(b)

is in a prescribed class of motor vehicles,


but does not include a vehicle in a class of motor vehicles excluded
by regulation;



"insurance premium"

means the premium established under the

Insurance (Vehicle) Act

for a motor vehicle liability policy;



"manufactured home"

means a trailer that may or may not be placed on a foundation and is
designed for use as an all season residence and for connection to
utilities;


"minister"
includes a person designated in writing by the minister;



"mobile equipment"

means a self-propelled device that is incapable of exceeding
10 km/h and that




(a)

can be steered only by an operator walking or standing behind, walking
in front of or walking alongside the device,




(b)

is a work platform used to raise and lower the following:




(i)

the operator of the platform;




(ii)

tools and supplies, or




(c)

is in a prescribed class of devices,


but does not include a device in a class of devices excluded by
regulation;



"motor assisted cycle"

means a device




(a)

to which pedals or hand cranks are attached that will allow for the
cycle to be propelled by human power,




(b)

on which a person may ride,




(c)

to which is attached a motor of a prescribed type that has an output
not exceeding the prescribed output, and




(d)

that meets the other criteria prescribed under section 182.1 (3);


"motor home"
means a motor vehicle designed or used primarily for accommodation
during travel or recreation, but does not include a motor vehicle that
has attached to it a structure




(a)

designed or used primarily for accommodation during travel or
recreation, and




(b)

designed or intended to be detachable;



"motor vehicle"

means a vehicle, not run on rails, that is designed to be
self-propelled or propelled by electric power obtained from overhead
trolley wires, but does not include mobile equipment, a motor assisted
cycle or a regulated motorized personal mobility device;



"motor vehicle indebtedness"

has the meaning set out in paragraphs (a) to (f) of the definition of
"vehicle indebtedness" in section 93.1 of the

Insurance (Vehicle) Act

;



"motor vehicle liability insurance card"

means a card issued under the

Insurance (Vehicle) Act

in respect of a motor vehicle liability policy, and may be part of a
certificate of insurance;



"motor vehicle liability policy"

means a certificate issued under Part 1 of the

Insurance (Vehicle) Act

and the regulations under that Part;



"motor vehicle related

Criminal Code

offence"

means an offence that




(a)

is a prescribed

Criminal Code

offence, and




(b)

arose out of or was related to the operation, care or control of a
motor vehicle or was committed by means of a motor vehicle;


"motorcycle"
means a motor vehicle that runs on 2 or 3 wheels and has a saddle or
seat for the driver to sit astride;



"number plate"

means the following:




(a)

a number plate issued under this Act;




(b)

if a validation decal is issued under this Act for attachment to a
number plate, the number plate with the validation decal;



"off-road vehicle"

has the same meaning as in the

Off-Road Vehicle Act

;


"owner"
includes a person in possession of a motor vehicle under a contract by
which he or she may become its owner on full compliance with the
contract;



"owner's certificate"

means an owner's certificate as defined in the

Insurance (Vehicle) Act

;



"owner's licence"

means a licence issued under section 3, 5, 6 or 38;



"passenger directed vehicle"

has the same meaning as in the

Passenger Transportation Act

;



"passenger directed vehicle authorization"

has the same meaning as in the

Passenger Transportation Act

;



"peace officer"

means a constable or a person who has a constable's powers;


"prescribed"
means prescribed by this Act or by regulation of the Lieutenant
Governor in Council or of the minister;



"prohibited from driving a motor vehicle"

means prohibited from driving a motor vehicle on a highway or an
industrial road;



"regulated motorized personal mobility device"

means a personal mobility device




(a)

that is designed




(i)

to be solely self-propelled or self-propelled with the capability to
be propelled by human power, and




(ii)

subject to exceptions prescribed under section 210 (3.2), to transport
one person, and




(b)

that meets other criteria prescribed under section 210 (3.2)


but does not include a motor assisted cycle;


"rural area"
does not include treaty lands or Nisg̱a'a Lands;


"school bus"
means a motor vehicle used to convey children to or from school by or
under a contract with the authority in charge of the school;



"station wagon"

means a dual purpose vehicle designed for transporting not more than 9
persons, with a rear seat accessible from a side door, and designed so
that the seats may be removed or folded out of the way to increase the
property carrying space in the vehicle;



"superintendent"

means the Superintendent of Motor Vehicles;


"taxi"
means a motor vehicle designed to carry not more than 10 persons that,
with its driver, is operated for hire;


"tow car"
means a motor vehicle used exclusively for towing or rendering
assistance to other motor vehicles or to vehicles suffering from a
defect or disability in their means of locomotion;


"trailer"
means a vehicle that is at any time drawn on a highway by a motor
vehicle, except




(a)

an implement of husbandry,




(b)

a side car attached to a motorcycle, and




(c)

a disabled motor vehicle that is towed by a tow car,


and includes a semi-trailer as defined in the

Commercial Transport Act

;



"transportation network services authorization"

has the same meaning as in the

Passenger Transportation Act

;


"vehicle"
means a device in, on or by which a person or thing is or may be
transported or drawn on a highway, but does not include a device
designed to be moved by human power, a device used exclusively on
stationary rails or tracks, mobile equipment, a motor assisted cycle
or a regulated motorized personal mobility device;



"vehicle insurance"

means vehicle insurance as defined in the

Insurance (Vehicle) Act

.




Part 1





Application of Act




2

(1)


In this section,
"private road"
means a private road used by the public for vehicular traffic with
permission of the owner or licensee of the road.




(2)

This Act does not apply to the driving or operation of a mechanically
propelled invalid's chair that is used only for the purposes for which
it was designed.




(3)

Despite subsection (2), a person must not drive or operate on a
highway a mechanically propelled invalid's chair of a type or class
prescribed by the Lieutenant Governor in Council as a motor vehicle
unless the person complies with this Act.




(4)

[Repealed 1997-31-2.]




(5)

The provisions of this Act respecting the registration and licensing
of motor vehicles and trailers and the licensing of drivers of motor
vehicles do not apply to prohibit




(a)

the temporary driving, propelling, drawing or moving of an implement
of husbandry on a highway by or on behalf of a farmer unless the
implement is used




(i)

to carry, on a highway, passengers or goods other than farm produce,
supplies, stock, fertilizer, tools or seeds being carried from one
place on a farm to another place on the same farm, or




(ii)

to tow, on a highway, a trailer used to carry passengers or goods
other than farm produce, supplies, stock, fertilizer, tools or seeds
being carried from one place on a farm to another place on the same
farm, or




(b)

the use of a trailer towed by a tractor licensed under section 8 by a
farmer to transport on the trailer the produce of the farmer's farm to
market and to transport supplies for that farm from market.




(6)

A motor vehicle or trailer exempted from registration and licensing
under subsection (5) is deemed, for the purpose of the

Insurance (Vehicle) Act

, to be registered and licensed under this Act.




(7)

A person who is under 15 years of age must not drive or operate an
implement of husbandry on a highway.




(8)

A commercial vehicle registered and licensed under a section of the

Commercial Transport Act

is deemed to be registered and licensed under the section of this Act
that is identical except for the substitutions mentioned in
section 4 of the

Commercial Transport Act

, and a commercial vehicle exempt from registration and licensing
under the

Commercial Transport Act

is also exempt from registration and licensing under this Act.




(9)

Except under sections 95, 102 and 144, a person must not be charged
with or convicted of an offence under the

Motor Vehicle Act

as the result of the driving or operation of a motor vehicle or
trailer




(a)

on a private road owned by the owner or lessee of the motor vehicle,
or




(b)

in an industrial use by an industrial user on a private road by
arrangement with the owner of the road.




(10)

Despite this section, but subject to subsection (11), a person must
not drive or operate a motor vehicle or trailer referred to in this
section unless




(a)

the person holds a subsisting driver's licence of a class appropriate
to the category of motor vehicle driven or operated,




(b)

the person is insured under a valid and subsisting driver's
certificate, and




(c)

the motor vehicle and the trailer, if any, are insured under a valid
and subsisting motor vehicle liability policy evidenced by an owner's
certificate.




(11)

Subsection (10) applies only to motor vehicles or trailers or drivers
referred to in this section that are designated by order of the
Lieutenant Governor in Council.




(12)

The provisions of this Act respecting registration and licensing of
vehicles do not apply to a vehicle being towed on a highway by a
vehicle designed or used primarily for towing, or rendering assistance
to, other vehicles.




(13)

For the purposes of subsection (12),
"vehicle being towed"
does not include a manufactured home, a semi-trailer as defined in the

Commercial Transport Act

and other vehicles prescribed by the Lieutenant Governor in Council.






Registration, licence and insurance




3

(1)


Except as otherwise provided under this Act, the owner of a motor
vehicle or trailer must, before it is used or operated on a highway,




(a)

register the motor vehicle or trailer with the Insurance Corporation
of British Columbia,




(b)

obtain a licence for its operation under this section, and




(c)

obtain for it an owner's certificate under the

Insurance (Vehicle) Act

.




(1.1)

An off-road vehicle registered with the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia under the

Off-Road Vehicle Act

is deemed to be sufficiently registered for the purposes of subsection
(1) (a) of this section.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), a trailer towed by a tractor licensed under
section 8 need not be licensed.




(3)

The owner must apply for




(a)

registration and licence in the form required by the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia, and




(b)

a motor vehicle liability policy.




(4)

The form of motor vehicle liability policy referred to in subsection
(3) (b) must be signed by the owner and delivered to the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia, a government agent or a person
authorized in writing by the corporation for the purposes of this
section, together with the prescribed fees, the insurance premium and
the amount of tax owing in respect of the motor vehicle under the

Social Service Tax Act

, the

Consumption Tax Rebate and Transition Act

, section 212.1 or 218.1 or Division IV.1 of Part IX of the

Excise Tax Act

(Canada) or the

Provincial Sales Tax Act

.




(4.1)

A person who is to be or has been issued a licence under the

Passenger Transportation Act

that includes a transportation network services authorization must,
before motor vehicles are operated under the authorization, obtain the
prescribed motor vehicle liability policy.




(5)

For the purpose of every section of this Act requiring a person to
obtain a certificate of insurance or pay an insurance premium or a
premium for a driver's certificate,




(a)

a government agent, or




(b)

a person authorized in writing under section 9.2 (3) (b) of the

Insurance Corporation Act



may act as an agent of the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia
for the purposes of the

Insurance (Vehicle) Act

, despite section 9.2 of the

Insurance Corporation Act

, but a government agent or a person so authorized is not considered
to be an insurance agent or insurance salesperson under the

Financial Institutions Act

and is not required to be licensed under that Act.




(6)

For the purpose of every section requiring a person to obtain a
licence or permit for a motor vehicle or to drive and operate a motor
vehicle, an agent of the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia,
appointed under section 9.2 of the

Insurance Corporation Act

, is deemed to be a person authorized in writing by the corporation.




(7)

On receiving the application in the form required by the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia, and on being satisfied of the truth
of the facts stated in the application, and that the prescribed fees
and insurance premium established under the

Insurance (Vehicle) Act

have been paid, the corporation must cause the name and address of the
owner and a description of the motor vehicle or trailer to be
registered in a file or index to be kept for that purpose, and must
cause the following to be issued to the owner:




(a)

a numbered licence in the form established by the corporation, showing
registration of the motor vehicle or trailer and authorizing its use
and operation in accordance with this Act;




(b)

one distinctive number plate in the case of a motorcycle or trailer,
and 2 distinctive number plates in the case of a motor vehicle other
than a motorcycle;




(c)

an owner's certificate and motor vehicle liability insurance card.




(8)

Fees are not payable for the registration or licensing of a motor
vehicle or trailer owned or used by a person who, through active
service in the Armed Forces of the Crown in a war has lost a limb or
is receiving a 100% disability pension, but the exemption granted by
this subsection does not extend to the concurrent registration or
licensing of more than one motor vehicle and one trailer for the same
person, or to the insurance premium payable under subsection (4).




(9)

On an application for the registration and licensing of a motor
vehicle imported into British Columbia that has been registered or
licensed at a place outside British Columbia, the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia may, as a condition of issuing the
licence, require the applicant to deliver to the corporation the
existing licence or certificate of registration and the current number
plates issued for the motor vehicle outside British Columbia, to be
retained by the corporation while the motor vehicle is used or
operated in British Columbia.




(10)

The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia may refuse to issue a
licence for the operation of a motor vehicle or trailer if




(a)

any fee or part of a fee for a previous licence issued under this Act
for the motor vehicle or trailer is unpaid,




(b)

any insurance premium or part of it for a previous owner's certificate
issued under the

Insurance (Vehicle) Act

is unpaid, or




(c)

any amount owing in respect of the motor vehicle under




(i)

the

Social Service Tax Act

,




(ii)

the

Consumption Tax Rebate and Transition Act

,




(iii)

section 212.1 or 218.1 or Division IV.1 of Part IX of the

Excise Tax Act

(Canada), or




(iv)

the

Provincial Sales Tax Act


is not paid to the corporation.





Exemptions — registration, licence and insurance




3.1

(1)


Section 3 (1) does not apply in respect of the following vehicles if
they are used or operated on a highway only in accordance with the
conditions in this section and in the regulations, if any:




(a)

golf carts;




(b)

industrial utility vehicles;




(c)

a vehicle in a prescribed class of vehicles.




(2)

This section also applies in respect of a trailer towed by an
industrial utility vehicle to which this section applies.




(3)

Section 3 (1) does not apply in respect of a golf cart or an
industrial utility vehicle owned or leased by the owner or operator of
a golf course if the golf cart or the industrial utility vehicle is
used or operated only as follows:




(a)

on a parking lot or driveway of the golf course;




(b)

to cross a highway that intersects the golf course, for the purpose of
travelling from one part of a golf course to another part of the same
golf course;




(c)

in the case of an industrial utility vehicle,




(i)

on the untravelled portion of a highway immediately adjacent to the
golf course, and




(ii)

on the highway immediately adjacent to a worksite where the industrial
utility vehicle is being or will be used or operated to perform work,
for the purpose of unloading or loading the industrial utility vehicle
from or to another motor vehicle or trailer.




(4)

Section 3 (1) does not apply in respect of an industrial utility
vehicle owned or leased by a person other than an owner or operator of
a golf course if the industrial utility vehicle is used or operated
only as follows:




(a)

on a parking lot or driveway, by or on behalf of the owner or operator
of the parking lot or driveway;




(b)

to cross a highway that intersects a worksite where the industrial
utility vehicle is being used or operated to perform work;




(c)

at a worksite on the untravelled portion of a highway;




(d)

on the highway immediately adjacent to a worksite where the industrial
utility vehicle is being or will be used or operated to perform work,
for the purpose of unloading or loading the industrial utility vehicle
from or to another vehicle or trailer;




(e)

at a worksite located on a highway, provided the worksite is not
accessible to the public.






Restriction on registration




4

(1)


A registration must not be made or a licence issued under this Act in
respect of a vehicle except in the name of the owner of the vehicle.




(2)

If the owner of a vehicle is not an individual, a registration or
licence must not be made or issued in respect of the vehicle unless
the owner is




(a)

a corporation incorporated under the laws of British Columbia,




(b)

an extraprovincial company within the meaning of the

Business Corporations Act

, or




(c)

an entity prescribed by or comprised in a class prescribed by the
Lieutenant Governor in Council.






Repealed




5


[Repealed 2008-15-18.]






Payment of premium




6


The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia must not issue any of
the following unless the appropriate insurance premium under section 3
(4) has been paid and a certificate of insurance has been issued:




(a)

a licence for a farm tractor under section 8;




(b)

a special licence under section 9 or 10;




(c)

a demonstration licence under section 38;




(d)

a transporter's licence under section 41;




(e)

a manufacturer's licence under section 42;




(f)

a licence under the

Commercial Transport Act

.






Underage applicants




7

(1)


An application for registration and licence of a motor vehicle or a
notice of transfer of a motor vehicle licence must not be accepted if
the applicant or the transferee is under 18 years of age, unless




(a)

it is also signed by a parent or guardian of the applicant or
transferee, or




(b)

if the applicant or transferee is unable to obtain the signature of a
parent or guardian, the applicant proves to the Insurance Corporation
of British Columbia's satisfaction that he or she is self supporting
and unable to obtain the signature of a parent or guardian, or is
married.




(2)

If a motor vehicle has been registered and licensed in or transferred
into the name of a person under 18 years of age in accordance with
subsection (1), and




(a)

the parent or guardian, in writing, withdraws his or her consent, or




(b)

proof is produced that satisfies the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia that the person was not self supporting, or was not married,


the corporation must suspend the licence of the motor vehicle and must
not reinstate it or issue a new licence for the vehicle to that person
until he or she reaches 18 years of age or subsection (1) is complied
with.




(3)

The licensee of a motor vehicle for which the licence has been
suspended under subsection (2) must immediately deliver the licence
and its corresponding number plates to the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia.






Licences for farm tractors




8

(1)


The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia may issue a licence for
a farm tractor owned by a farmer if the tractor is used for




(a)

towing a trailer to transport the produce of the farmer's own farm to
market and to transport supplies for that farm, or




(b)

towing an implement of husbandry used by or on behalf of the farmer.




(2)

A licence issued under this section is not in force during any time
the motor vehicle is operated or used on a highway otherwise than for
the purpose stated in the licence.




(3)

The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia may, in the
corporation's discretion and without holding a public or other
hearing, cancel a licence issued under this section.




(4)

On notice of the cancellation of a licence under subsection (3), the
licensee must immediately deliver the licence and its corresponding
number plates to the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia.






Special licence for motor vehicles used in industry




9

(1)


If 2 or more motor vehicles belonging to the same owner are registered
under this Act and are used exclusively in the conveyance of personal
property in an industry carried on by that owner, and are all
ordinarily used and operated entirely on premises other than a
highway, but it is necessary for purposes of the industry that one of
them occasionally be used or operated on a highway, the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia, on being satisfied as to the facts,
may in the corporation's discretion cause one licence with its
corresponding number plates to be issued in respect of all those motor
vehicles, authorizing the use and operation of each of them in
accordance with the provisions of this Act.




(2)

The form of the licence under this section and the application for it
must be varied accordingly.




(3)

All the motor vehicles covered by a licence under this section, as
long as they are used exclusively in the industry carried on by the
owner, are deemed to be sufficiently licensed for the purposes of this
Act, but only one of those motor vehicles may be operated on a highway
at any one time.




(4)

The annual licence fee payable for a licence issued under this section
must equal the largest annual licence fee prescribed under this Act in
respect of the motor vehicles covered by the licence.






Special licence for tractors, etc.




10

(1)


The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia may, in respect of any
motor vehicle known or described as a tractor, grader, loader, shovel,
roller, mixer, crane or other self-propelled construction machinery
used in performing work at a worksite located in or on a mine or
industrial undertaking, cause a licence to be issued permitting the
operation of the motor vehicle on a highway for the purposes of




(a)

proceeding to or returning from the worksite without carrying a load,
or




(b)

if the worksite is on the highway, carrying a load at the worksite,
provided the worksite is not accessible to the public.




(1.1)

The form of the licence under subsection (1) must be varied
accordingly.




(2)

A licence issued under subsection (1) is not in force during any time
the motor vehicle is operated or used on a highway otherwise than for
the purposes stated in the licence.




(3)

The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia may, in the
corporation's discretion and without holding a formal or public or
other hearing, cancel a licence issued under this section.




(4)

On notice of the cancellation of a licence under subsection (3), the
licensee must immediately deliver the licence and its corresponding
number plates to the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia.






Carrying of licence




11


The licence issued for a motor vehicle or trailer, or a photocopy of
it, must be carried in the motor vehicle, or in the case of a trailer,
in the motor vehicle towing the trailer, at all times while the motor
vehicle or trailer is on a highway.






Number plates




12

(1)


Each number plate must




(a)

be marked with the licence number of the motor vehicle or trailer for
which it is issued, and




(b)

be of a material and design determined by the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia.




(2)

On renewal of a licence in respect of a motor vehicle or trailer,
instead of issuing new number plates, the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia may, in accordance with the regulations,




(a)

issue validation decals that are valid for the term of the licence, or
for a period that is longer than the term of the licence, to be
attached to previously issued number plates,




(b)

issue non-expiring validation decals to be attached to previously
issued number plates, including for trailers or semi-trailers that are
licensed and registered under section 6 of the

Commercial Transport Act

, or




(c)

instead of issuing validation decals, issue a prescribed document or
take a prescribed action respecting the validity of a licence.




(3)

The validation decals referred to in subsection (2) must be of a
material and design determined by the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia.




(4)

A number plate issued for a motor vehicle or trailer must be
displayed, in the manner prescribed, on the motor vehicle or trailer
at all times while the motor vehicle or trailer is on a highway.




(5)

If




(a)

a renewal licence in respect of a motor vehicle or trailer already
licensed under this section is obtained before the expiry date of the
existing licence, and




(b)

a new validation decal is issued on the renewal of the licence,


the display on the motor vehicle or trailer of the number plate with
the new validation decal, at any time during the month preceding the
designated expiry date of the existing licence, is sufficient to be in
compliance with subsection (4) for that month, so long as the existing
licence continues to be carried in the vehicle.




(6)

Number plates and validation decals issued under this section are the
property of the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia whether they
were issued before, on or after the date this section comes into
force.






Offences




13

(1)


A person commits an offence if the person drives, operates, parks or
is in charge of a motor vehicle or trailer on a highway




(a)

without the licence required by this Act for the operation of that
motor vehicle or trailer having been first obtained and being then in
force,




(b)

without displaying on it, in the manner prescribed, the number plates
issued or designated by the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia
or otherwise prescribed to be displayed on that motor vehicle or
trailer for the current licence term of that motor vehicle or trailer,
or




(c)

that has displayed on it a number plate other than those issued or
designated by the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia or
otherwise prescribed to be displayed on that motor vehicle or trailer
for the current licence term of that motor vehicle or trailer.




(2)

Every peace officer, officer or constable of the Royal Canadian
Mounted Police or the police department of a municipality or inspector
authorized under section 217 (1) (a) to inspect motor vehicles may




(a)

seize a number plate




(i)

that the officer, constable or inspector finds detached from a motor
vehicle or trailer or displayed on a motor vehicle or trailer other
than the one for which it was issued, or




(ii)

that is required under this Act or by a direction of the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia to be surrendered, and




(b)

hold the number plate until the receipt of instructions from the
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia as to its disposal.




(3)

Subsection (2) applies in respect of number plates and motor vehicles
whether on a highway or elsewhere, and for the purposes of that
subsection an officer or constable of the Royal Canadian Mounted
Police or the police department of a municipality may enter without
warrant the land or premises of any person on or in which there is a
motor vehicle or trailer.




(4)

Subsection (2) does not apply to dealers' number plates used as
permitted by this Act or to number plates detached under the
regulations.






Change of address or name




14

(1)


If the address of the owner of a vehicle licensed under this Act is
changed from the address stated in the application on which the
licence was issued or as shown on the licence, the owner must, within
10 days of the change of address, notify the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia in writing or by some other means
approved by the corporation of the owner's old and new address.




(2)

In case of a change of name, by marriage or otherwise, of the owner of
a vehicle licensed under this Act, the owner must within 10 days
notify the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia in writing of the
former name and the new name in full.






Notice of change made in motor vehicle




15

(1)


If a change is made in a motor vehicle registered under this Act by




(a)

replacing the chassis by another,




(b)

replacing the body by another,




(c)

changing the type of the motor vehicle for another;




(d)

changing the style or colour of the body, or




(e)

changing the type of fuel system,


the owner of the motor vehicle must immediately deliver to the
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia a notice in writing stating
the nature of the change and other particulars the corporation
requires.




(2)

The last licence issued for the motor vehicle under this Act must be
attached to the notice under subsection (1) for surrender to the
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia, and any alteration in the
amount of the annual licence fee payable for the motor vehicle due to
the change must immediately be adjusted by rebate or payment.




(3)

The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia must then issue to the
owner a new licence for the operation of the motor vehicle, and may
require the substitution of new number plates for those last issued
for that motor vehicle and the payment of the prescribed fee for them.






New vehicle identification numbers




16

(1)


If, with respect to a motor vehicle or trailer, any of the following
circumstances exist, the owner of the motor vehicle or trailer must
immediately apply to the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia for
a new vehicle identification number for the motor vehicle or trailer:




(a)

the vehicle identification number on a motor vehicle or trailer has
become illegible or has been removed or obliterated;




(b)

a vehicle identification number is not the same as any other vehicle
identification number on the motor vehicle or trailer;




(c)

the motor vehicle or trailer does not have a vehicle identification
number.




(2)

On being satisfied that the applicant is the lawful owner of the motor
vehicle or trailer, the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia may
assign a new vehicle identification number to it, and the owner must
then cause the number so assigned, with the initials "B.C." to
indicate British Columbia, and the date of the assignment of the
number to be applied by a method designated by the corporation on the
part or parts of the motor vehicle or trailer designated by the
corporation.




(3)

If the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia is satisfied that a
new vehicle identification number has been assigned to and applied to
a motor vehicle or trailer under this section, the corporation must
cause the new number to be inserted in the registration record and
licence of the motor vehicle or trailer.




(4)

This section does not apply to a trailer licensed under this Act with
a licensed vehicle weight of 1400 kg or less.






Transfer of motor vehicle




17

(1)


If the title or interest of a person in a motor vehicle or trailer
registered under section 3 is transferred, whether by gift,
exchange, barter, or sale, the transferor and the transferee of the
title or interest must immediately sign a notice of the transfer in
the form required by the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia,
and the transferee must within 10 days from the day of the
transfer deliver the notice to the corporation for registration by the
corporation, accompanied by the prescribed fee and the insurance
premium in respect of the transfer and the amount of tax owing in
respect of the motor vehicle under the

Social Service Tax Act

, the

Consumption Tax Rebate and Transition Act

, section 212.1 or 218.1 or Division IV.1 of Part IX of the

Excise Tax Act

(Canada) or the

Provincial Sales Tax Act

.




(2)

If there is a transfer, by operation of law, of the title or interest
of an owner of a motor vehicle or trailer registered under
section 3, by way of inheritance, bequest, order in bankruptcy,
execution sale, repossession on default in performance of a lease or
conditional sale contract, or other means than the voluntary act of
the person whose title or interest is transferred,




(a)

the notice of transfer under this section must be signed by the
executor, administrator, receiver, trustee, sheriff or other
representative or successor in interest of the person whose title or
interest is so transferred in place of that person, and




(b)

the person signing must transmit to the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia evidence satisfactory to the corporation of all facts
entitling that person to sign the notice of transfer.




(3)

The form of the notice of transfer under subsection (2) may be varied
in accordance with the facts of the case.




(4)

All documents required to be transmitted to the Insurance Corporation
of British Columbia under this section may be delivered to the
corporation, a government agent or a person authorized in writing by
the corporation for the purposes of this section, but in every case
the person delivering the notice of transfer must at the same time
surrender the licence last issued under section 3 for the motor
vehicle or trailer, and the person to whom it is surrendered must
endorse on it a memorandum of the notice of transfer and the date of
its delivery to him or her.




(5)

The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia may refuse registration
under this section if a notice of transfer is delivered to the
corporation for a motor vehicle or trailer and




(a)

any fee or part of a fee for a previous licence issued for the motor
vehicle or trailer under this Act is unpaid,




(b)

the insurance premium in respect of the transfer is unpaid, or




(c)

any amount owing in respect of the motor vehicle or trailer under any
of the following is unpaid:




(i)

the

Social Service Tax Act

;




(ii)

the

Consumption Tax Rebate and Transition Act

;




(iii)

section 212.1 or 218.1 or Division IV.1 of Part IX of the

Excise Tax Act

(Canada);




(iv)

the

Provincial Sales Tax Act

.






Irreparable and salvage vehicles




17.1

(1)


In this section:



"irreparable vehicle"

means a motor vehicle that,




(a)

as a result of being written off by an insurer, has its title
transferred to the insurer, who in turn transfers the title to a
person under an agreement that states that the person may use or
resell it only for parts or scrap, or




(b)

has its title transferred to a person who is in the business of
wrecking used motor vehicles and who intends to use the motor vehicle
for parts or scrap;



"salvage vehicle"

means a motor vehicle that is not an irreparable vehicle and that




(a)

while unsafe to drive has its title transferred, or




(b)

has been written off by an insurer, whether or not its title has been
transferred to the insurer.




(2)

In this section a motor vehicle is "written off" if, following an
insurance claim, the motor vehicle's insurer has decided to pay the
insured for the motor vehicle rather than replace or repair it or pay
for its repair.




(3)

If on the transfer of a motor vehicle its status changes to that of an
irreparable or salvage vehicle,




(a)

the transferor and transferee must sign a notice of transfer and
change in status of the motor vehicle in the form required by the
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia, and




(b)

within 10 days after the transfer, the transferee must deliver the
notice to the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia with the
prescribed fee for its filing.




(4)

If the status of a motor vehicle changes to that of a salvage vehicle
because the vehicle has been written off by an insurer who does not
take title to the vehicle, the insurer of the motor vehicle must




(a)

sign a notice of change in status of the vehicle in the form required
by the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia, and




(b)

within 10 days after the writing off, deliver the notice to the
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia with the prescribed fee for
its filing.




(5)

Section 17 (3) to (5) applies to the notices required by this section.




(6)

Any person who contravenes any of the requirements under subsection
(3) or (4) or a provision made applicable by subsection (5) commits an
offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of up to $2 000, to
imprisonment for not more than 6 months or to both.






Transfer on death if estate small




18


Despite any Act, if a person registered as the holder of a licence to
operate a motor vehicle or trailer dies, and another person applies
for a transfer of the licence, if that person satisfies the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia that the total estate left by the
deceased did not exceed $25 000 in value, and if the person
satisfies the corporation by producing the last will of the deceased,
that the person entitled under it consents, or if the deceased died
intestate, by showing that all persons entitled to share in the estate
on intestacy consent, the corporation may accept the application for a
transfer, and, subject to payment of the insurance premium under the

Insurance (Vehicle) Act

in respect of the transfer, issue a new licence in the person's name.






Registration of dissolved company suspended




19


At any time after the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia is
satisfied that a company, within the meaning of the

Business Corporations Act

, that is a registered owner has been dissolved or has otherwise
ceased to be a company, or that an extraprovincial company, within the
meaning of the

Business Corporations Act

, that is a registered owner has had its registration cancelled under
Part 11 or 12 of that Act, the corporation may suspend the
registration and licence of any motor vehicle or trailer registered in
the name of that owner and cause the numbered licence and number plate
or number plates issued for the motor vehicle or trailer to be seized
by a peace officer and delivered to the corporation.






Notice of removal or destruction of motor vehicle




20

(1)


If a motor vehicle or trailer registered or licensed under this Act is




(a)

permanently removed from British Columbia,




(b)

burned or damaged so that it cannot be again repaired or used as a
motor vehicle or trailer, or




(c)

temporarily removed from use, and


the owner or licensee applies for a refund of insurance premium or
licence fee, the owner or licensee of the motor vehicle or trailer
must




(d)

sign and transmit to the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia a
notice in the form required by the corporation,




(e)

deal with the licence as directed by the corporation,




(f)

deal with the number plates for the motor vehicle or trailer as
directed by the corporation, and




(g)

if the owner or licensee was issued a document under section 12 (2)
(c) or the corporation took an action under that provision, deal with
the document as directed by the corporation or take a prescribed
action.




(2)

On the certificate of the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia
showing the surrender of the licence for the motor vehicle or trailer
covered by a notice under this section, the Minister of Finance must,
out of the revenue collected under this Act, refund to the licensee
that part of the licence fee that is proportionate to the part of the
term of the licence that is unexpired at the time of its surrender,
and in the case of a licence surrendered under
subsection (1) (a) or (b), the registration of the motor
vehicle or trailer under section 3 must be cancelled.




(3)

Subsection (2) does not apply if the licence for a motor vehicle or
trailer has been cancelled or suspended.




(4)

The amount of a refund made under this section must be rounded to the
nearest dollar and a refund ending in 50¢ must be raised to the next
highest dollar.




(5)

A refund must not be made under this section if the combined amount of




(a)

the licence fee to be refunded under this section, and




(b)

the insurance premium to be refunded under the

Insurance (Vehicle) Act

, in a circumstance described in subsection (1),

is less than $5.





Registration of foreign motor vehicles and trailers




21

(1)


The owner of a motor vehicle or trailer




(a)

that is duly registered outside British Columbia,




(b)

for which the licensing requirements of the jurisdiction in which it
is registered are fulfilled, and




(c)

that has displayed on it the registration number plates of that
jurisdiction for the current year, or is a trailer that is designed
exclusively to carry one axle of a motor vehicle for the purpose of
towing that motor vehicle behind another motor vehicle and is from a
jurisdiction that does not issue registration number plates for that
type of trailer,


is exempt from the requirements to register and license the motor
vehicle or trailer under this Act, if




(d)

the owner or operator of the motor vehicle or trailer is in British
Columbia for, and uses the motor vehicle or trailer for, touring
purposes only, for a period of 6 months, or




(e)

the owner or operator of the motor vehicle or trailer is in British
Columbia for, and uses the motor vehicle or trailer for, other than
touring purposes, for a period of 30 days


from the date the owner or operator began to operate the motor vehicle
or trailer on a highway in British Columbia.




(2)

If a motor vehicle or trailer is owned by a person resident outside
British Columbia who has complied with the laws of his or her place of
residence with respect to the registration and licensing of the motor
vehicle or trailer and the motor vehicle or trailer has displayed on
it the registration number plates for the current year assigned under
those laws for that motor vehicle or trailer and is brought into
British Columbia




(a)

for temporary use by a member of Her Majesty's Armed Forces on
temporary posting in British Columbia for training purposes only for a
period not exceeding 6 months, or




(b)

by a person for the period that the person is registered as a full
time student at and attends any of the following educational
institutions:




(i)

a university, as defined in the

University Act

;




(ii)

an institution, as defined in the

College and Institute Act

;




(iii)

[Repealed 2004-33-21.]




(iv)

the University of Northern British Columbia;




(v)

[Repealed 2002-35-9.]




(v.1)

the Thompson Rivers University;




(vi)

Royal Roads University;




(vii)

[Repealed 2003-48-20.]




(viii)

any other educational institution in the Province that is authorized
under an enactment to grant degrees or is designated under section 3
(1) (a) of the

Canada Student Financial Assistance Act

,


then, at the earliest opportunity and in any event not later than
30 days after the motor vehicle or trailer is brought into
British Columbia, the owner must cause the motor vehicle or trailer to
be registered with the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia by
delivering to the corporation, a government agent or a person
authorized in writing by the corporation to receive it a notice in the
form required by the corporation and by giving proof of financial
responsibility under sections 106 to 113.




(3)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may order that the owner of a motor
vehicle or trailer who gives proof of financial responsibility to the
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia under sections 106 to
113 is, for a period the Lieutenant Governor in Council specifies, and
subject to conditions set out in the order, exempt from the
requirements to register or license the motor vehicle or trailer under
this Act.




(4)

On receipt of the notice in the form required by the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia and proof of financial responsibility,
and on being satisfied of the truth of the facts stated in the notice,
the corporation must cause to be issued to the owner a certificate of
registration in the form established by the corporation, together with
a windshield sticker of a design approved by the corporation.




(5)

The motor vehicle or trailer, with the sticker conspicuously displayed
on the lower part of its windshield in the case of a motor vehicle
other than a motorcycle, while being used by the owner within British
Columbia for the purpose mentioned in subsection (2) during the period
named in the certificate is deemed sufficiently registered and
licensed for the purposes of this Act.




(6)

A motor vehicle or trailer is not, merely because of compliance with
this section, deemed to be sufficiently registered and licensed for
the purposes of this Act for a longer period than that allowed by the
law of the owner's place of residence for the operation there without
local registration or licence of touring motor vehicles and trailers
registered and licensed in British Columbia, but this subsection does
not apply to permits issued under subsection (2).




(7)

A person commits an offence who




(a)

drives or operates a motor vehicle or trailer on a highway




(i)

after the period of 6 months permitted in subsection (1) (d),




(ii)

after the period of 30 days permitted in subsection (1) (e),




(b)

makes a false statement in a notice given by the person for the
purposes of this section,




(c)

being in possession of a motor vehicle or trailer for which a
certificate of registration has been issued under this section, and
being requested by a peace officer or constable to exhibit the
certificate, refuses or fails to do so,




(d)

fails to give proof of financial responsibility under subsection (2),
or




(e)

30 days or more after entry into British Columbia of a motor vehicle
or trailer that is required to be registered under subsection (2) but
in respect of which notice has not been delivered in accordance with
subsection (2), drives or operates the motor vehicle or trailer on a
highway.






Reciprocal arrangements




22

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make or authorize to be made a
reciprocal arrangement or agreement with the executive government of
any province or territory of Canada or a state or territory of the
United States of America,




(a)

exempting any class of owners of motor vehicles who are ordinarily
resident in that other province, state or territory from the
provisions of this Act relating to




(i)

registration and licensing of motor vehicles, and




(ii)

carrying and displaying on motor vehicles licences and number plates
issued by the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia, and




(b)

providing for the granting by that other province, state or territory
of similar exemptions and privileges to owners of motor vehicles who
are ordinarily resident in British Columbia.




(2)

Every arrangement or agreement made under subsection (1) and each
exemption under it is subject to




(a)

the condition that no person is entitled to an exemption or privilege
under it for a motor vehicle in British Columbia unless the owner of
the motor vehicle




(i)

has complied with the law of his or her place of residence relating to
the registration and licensing of motor vehicles, and




(ii)

carries or causes to be carried on the motor vehicle the certificate
or licence and the number plates prescribed by the law of that place,




(b)

all other conditions and restrictions set out in the arrangement or
agreement, and




(c)

cancellation by the Lieutenant Governor in Council.






Classes of drivers' licences




23

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may prescribe classes of drivers'
licences, including classes of drivers' licences for persons who are
learning to drive one or more categories of motor vehicles, and may
prescribe any of the following for each class:




(a)

the minimum amount of driving experience, minimum driving skills or
other qualifications that the holder of the class of licence is
required to have;




(a.1)

a requirement that the holder of the class of licence has successfully
completed a training course that is




(i)

approved by the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia, and




(ii)

provided by a person or organization authorized by the corporation to
provide the training course;




(b)

the ages of the drivers to whom a licence of that class may be issued;




(c)

the categories of motor vehicles that the holder of the class of
licence is licensed to drive.




(2)

The driving experience, driving skills or other qualifications
referred to in subsection (1) (a) may be measured by one or
more of the following:




(a)

the length of time a person has held a valid driver's licence issued
under this Act or in another jurisdiction;




(b)

a person's driving record, if any, from this or any other
jurisdiction;




(c)

other prescribed means.




(2.1)

For the purposes of a regulation under subsection (1) (a), the
Lieutenant Governor in Council may do one or more of the following:




(a)

delegate to the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia the power to
determine whether a class of driver's licence issued by another
jurisdiction is similar to a class of driver's licence prescribed
under this Act;




(b)

delegate to the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia the power to
determine whether an offence under a law of another jurisdiction is
similar to




(i)

an offence under this Act, or




(ii)

a motor vehicle related offence under the

Criminal Code

;




(c)

confer a discretion on the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia
with respect to a matter described in paragraph (a) or (b).




(2.2)

For the purposes of a regulation under subsection (1) (a.1), the
Lieutenant Governor in Council may do one or more of the following:




(a)

exempt a class of persons, or delegate to the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia the power to exempt a class of persons, from the
requirement prescribed under subsection (1) (a.1) to have successfully
completed a training course;




(b)

delegate to the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia the power to
determine whether a training course in another jurisdiction is similar
to a training course approved under subsection (1) (a.1);




(c)

confer a discretion on the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia
with respect to a matter described in paragraph (a) or (b) of this
subsection.




(3)

The authority to drive conferred by each class of licence prescribed
under this section is confined to the driving of motor vehicles of the
category designated for that class.




(4)

A regulation made under subsection (1) does not affect a driver's
licence issued to a person before the regulation is made, and the
driver's licence remains in force until it expires or is suspended,
revoked, cancelled or surrendered.






Offences




24

(1)


Except when accompanied by a person authorized by the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia to examine persons as to their ability
to drive and operate motor vehicles, a person must not drive or
operate a motor vehicle on a highway unless, in addition to any
licence or permit which the person is otherwise required to hold under
this Act, the person holds a subsisting driver's licence issued to the
person under this Act of a class appropriate to the category of motor
vehicle driven or operated by the person.




(2)

A person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence.




(3)

A person must not drive or operate a motor vehicle or trailer on a
highway unless




(a)

the person is insured under a valid and subsisting driver's
certificate, and




(b)

the motor vehicle and the trailer, if any, are insured under a valid
and subsisting motor vehicle liability policy evidenced by an owner's
certificate.




(4)

[Repealed 1997-43-3.]




(5)

A person who contravenes subsection (3) commits an offence and is
liable on conviction




(a)

if the contravention is under subsection (3) (a), to a fine of not
more than $250 or to imprisonment for not more than 3 months, or to
both, and




(b)

if the contravention is under subsection (3) (b), to a fine of not
less than $300 and not more than $2 000 or to imprisonment for not
less than 7 days and not more than 6 months, or to both.




(6)

A person commits an offence if the person




(a)

produces to a peace officer or to the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia any of the following:




(i)

a motor vehicle liability insurance card or a financial responsibility
card purporting to show that there is in force a policy of insurance
that is, in fact, not in force;




(ii)

a financial responsibility card purporting to show that the person is
at that time maintaining in effect proof of financial responsibility
as required by this Act when that is not the case;




(iii)

a motor vehicle liability insurance card or a financial responsibility
card issued in respect of insurance that does not apply to the motor
vehicle the person is driving or operating;




(iv)

a driver's certificate in the name of another person,




(b)

gives or loans to a person not entitled to have it a motor vehicle
liability insurance card or a financial responsibility card, or




(c)

fails to deliver to the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia for
cancellation as required by section 112 a financial
responsibility card.




(7)

Subsection (3) does not apply to a motor vehicle or trailer registered
or owned by a person resident outside British Columbia that complies
with section 21, or to a driver or operator resident outside
British Columbia who complies with section 34, unless




(a)

the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia has required proof of
financial responsibility under this Act and the owner or driver has
not given proof satisfactory to the corporation, or




(b)

the licence of the owner or driver has been suspended under this Act.




(c)

[Repealed 1997-31-5.]






Residency requirement




24.1

(1)


In this section and sections 25, 26.1 (2.3) and 34 (1.1) (b),

"resident of British Columbia"

means a person




(a)

who is ordinarily resident in British Columbia, or




(b)

who is in a prescribed class of persons.




(2)

A person is not eligible to hold a driver's licence issued under this
Act unless the person is a resident of British Columbia.




(3)

The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia may, at any time,
request evidence that a person is a resident of British Columbia for
the purposes of this Act or the regulations.






Application for licence




25

(1)


The applicant for a driver's licence and for a driver's certificate
must sign an application in the form required by the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia, complete an evaluation in the form
required by the superintendent and deliver the application and the
completed evaluation form to




(a)

the corporation,




(b)

a government agent, or




(c)

a person authorized in writing by the corporation for the purposes of
this section,


accompanied by the payment of the prescribed fee and premium for the
driver's certificate.




(1.1)

For the purposes of subsection (1), an applicant must provide the
following:




(a)

the address of the applicant's primary residence in British Columbia
unless another address is prescribed by regulation;




(b)

documentary proof satisfactory to the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia of the applicant's identity.




(1.2)

An applicant for a driver's licence referred to in subsection (1) who
wishes the driver's licence to indicate that the applicant is a
Canadian citizen must, for the purposes of subsection (1) and in
addition to the other requirements in this section,




(a)

provide documentary proof of Canadian citizenship satisfactory to the
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia,




(b)

sign an application in the form required by the Insurance Corporation
of British Columbia,




(c)

pay the prescribed fee, and




(d)

meet the requirements set out in the regulations.




(1.3)

An applicant for a driver's licence referred to in subsection (1),
other than an applicant within a prescribed category, who wishes the
driver's licence to indicate that the applicant is a beneficiary under
the

Medicare Protection Act

must, for the purposes of subsection (1) and in addition to the other
requirements in this section,




(a)

provide proof of enrolment as a beneficiary under the

Medicare Protection Act

,




(b)

sign an application in the form required by the Insurance Corporation
of British Columbia,




(c)

pay




(i)

the fee prescribed under this Act, and




(ii)

any fee prescribed under section 51 (2) (n) of the

Medicare Protection Act

that applies to an application to renew enrolment as a beneficiary
under that Act, and




(d)

meet the requirements set out in the regulations.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1) the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia and its employees are authorized to receive the
evaluations and deal with them in accordance with the superintendent's
instructions.




(2.1)

For the purposes of making an application for a driver's licence under
subsection (1), the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia may
require the applicant for a driver's licence and for a driver's
certificate to provide information and a signature in person, and in
that event




(a)

the corporation must enter the information electronically into a
database for storage,




(b)

the corporation must reproduce the information that has been stored in
the database in a record that is in paper format and must give that
paper record to the applicant to verify the accuracy of the entered
information,




(c)

if the applicant is satisfied that the information in the record is
accurate, the applicant must




(i)

sign the paper record, and




(ii)

supply a signature by a means required by the corporation that allows
the corporation to store the signature electronically in a database,




(d)

a signature provided under paragraph (c) is evidence that the
applicant who provided the signature also provided the information
that is stored under paragraph (a), and




(e)

a signature stored under this section may be used only




(i)

as evidence under paragraph (d),




(ii)

for the purpose of applying it to the driver's licence of the
applicant, and




(iii)

to compare signatures under sections 90.4 (3) and 95 (3).




(3)

For the purpose of determining an applicant's driving experience,
driving skills, qualifications, fitness and ability to drive and
operate any category of motor vehicle designated for that class of
driver's licence for which the application is made, the applicant must




(a)

submit to one or more, as the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia may specify, of the following: a knowledge test; a road test;
a road signs and signals test,




(b)

submit to one or more, as the superintendent may specify, of the
following: a vision test; medical examinations; other examinations or
tests, other than as set out in paragraph (a),




(b.1)

provide the corporation with information required to measure the
applicant's driving experience, driving skills and qualifications,




(c)

provide the superintendent with other information the superintendent
considers necessary to allow the superintendent to carry out the
superintendent's powers, duties and functions,




(d)

submit to having the applicant's picture taken, and




(e)

if required by or on behalf of the corporation, identify themselves to
the corporation's satisfaction.




(4)

If the applicant for a driver's licence has at any time before making
the application held a driver's licence issued under this Act or in
another jurisdiction, the applicant must, at the time that the
applicant is issued a driver's licence under this Act, surrender the
last driver's licence or duplicate of it held by the applicant, unless
the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia on cause shown to the
corporation's satisfaction dispenses with its production.




(5)

At the same time that a person has a driver's licence issued under
this Act, the person must not have a driver's licence issued by
another jurisdiction or have another driver's licence previously
issued under this Act.




(6)

An applicant for a driver's licence who when requested to do so fails
to demonstrate the applicant's ability to read and understand warning
and other road signs and signals in use on a highway to the
satisfaction of the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia must not
be granted a licence under this Act.




(7)

The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia must issue or cause to
be issued to the applicant a numbered driver's licence, in the form
established by the corporation, authorizing the applicant to drive or
operate a motor vehicle of the category designated for the class of
licence applied for and a driver's certificate, if all of the
following are met:




(a)

the corporation has received the application and evaluation required
under subsection (1), (1.2) or (1.3) of this section, as applicable;




(b)

the corporation is satisfied of the completeness of the application
and the truth of the facts stated in the application;




(c)

the corporation is satisfied that the applicant is a resident of
British Columbia as defined in section 24.1 (1);




(d)

all of the prescribed fees and the premium for the driver's
certificate have been paid;




(e)

subject to subsections (9) and (9.1) of this section, the corporation
is satisfied as to the driving experience, driving skills,
qualifications, fitness and ability of the applicant to drive and
operate motor vehicles of the relevant category.




(8)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations respecting the
issuance of a driver's licence to a person who is learning to drive
one or more categories of motor vehicles, prescribing




(a)

the circumstances in which the corporation may exercise the
corporation's discretion to issue the licence,




(b)

the duration of the licence,




(c)

requirements additional to any restriction to which the licence is
subject under subsection (10), and




(d)

a minimum waiting period before holders of those licences may submit
themselves to examinations under this section with respect to their
ability to drive or operate a motor vehicle.




(8.1)

For the purposes of subsection (8) (d), the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia may




(a)

approve driver education courses given by a driver training school
licensed under the regulations, and




(b)

reduce the minimum waiting period prescribed under that subsection for
persons who have successfully completed a driver education course
approved under paragraph (a).




(9)

In issuing any driver's licence or driver's certificate, the
corporation, for those aspects of fitness and ability examined, tested
or reviewed by the superintendent, must abide by the superintendent's
instructions.




(9.1)

The corporation may refuse to issue a driver's licence that indicates
that the holder is a beneficiary under the

Medicare Protection Act

if it would not be practicable to do so in the circumstances.




(10)

For a driver's licence of any class of persons, the Lieutenant
Governor in Council, by regulation with respect to a class of persons,
may




(a)

restrict the hours of the day and the days of the week during which a
class of persons may drive a motor vehicle,




(b)

restrict the area in which a class of persons may drive a motor
vehicle,




(c)

restrict the motor vehicle or class of motor vehicle that a class of
persons may drive,




(d)

restrict the number of passengers that the person may carry in a motor
vehicle driven by the person,




(e)

impose other restrictions on or add any conditions to the driver's
licence of a class of persons that the Lieutenant Governor in Council
considers necessary for the operation of a motor vehicle by a member
of that class,




(f)

establish the length of time or the method of determining the length
of time during which a restriction imposed on or a condition added to
the driver's licence under this subsection is to apply, and




(g)

empower the superintendent or the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia, in prescribed circumstances or for prescribed purposes, to
exempt unconditionally or on conditions the superintendent or the
corporation, as the case may be, considers desirable, a member of the
class of persons from any restriction imposed on or condition added to
the driver's licence of that class of persons.




(10.1)

Without limiting subsection (10), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may, by regulation, impose a condition on a class of driver's licence,
or on the drivers' licences of persons who hold a licence to drive a
motor vehicle of a specified category, that the holder of the licence
must not operate a motor vehicle, or category of motor vehicle, while
having alcohol in the holder's body.




(10.101)

Without limiting subsection (10) or (10.1), the Lieutenant Governor in
Council may, by regulation, impose a condition on a class of driver's
licence, or on the drivers' licences of persons who hold a licence to
drive a motor vehicle of a specified category, that the holder of the
licence must not operate a motor vehicle, or category of motor
vehicle, while having a prescribed drug in the holder's body.




(10.11)

Without limiting subsection (10), (10.1) or (10.101), the Lieutenant
Governor in Council may, by regulation,




(a)

impose a restriction or condition on a class of driver's licence, or
on the drivers' licences of persons who hold a licence to drive a
motor vehicle of a specified category, that the holder of the licence
must not use an electronic device within the meaning of Part 3.1 while
driving or operating a motor vehicle on a highway, and




(b)

set out exceptions to a restriction or condition referred to in
paragraph (a) that are not inconsistent with Part 3.1.




(10.2)

[Repealed 2011-13-132.]




(10.3)

[Not in force.]




(10.4)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may, for the purposes of complying
with a prescribed international agreement, make regulations respecting
requirements, restrictions or conditions for a driver's licence or
respecting statements in, endorsements on or attachments to a driver's
licence.




(11)

A regulation made under subsection (8), (10), (10.1), (10.101) or
(10.11) may specify that a requirement, restriction or condition is
applicable to and conclusively deemed to be part of




(a)

any driver's licence, whether it is issued before or after the coming
into force of the regulation,




(b)

only those drivers' licences issued after the coming into force of the
regulation, or




(c)

any driver's licence issued on or after a date specified in the
regulation.




(12)

Despite the regulations, the superintendent may require a statement
in, endorsement on, or attachment to any person's driver's licence




(a)

restricting the hours of the day and the days of the week during which
the person may drive a motor vehicle,




(b)

restricting the area in which the person may drive a motor vehicle,




(c)

restricting the motor vehicle or class of motor vehicle that the
person may drive,




(d)

restricting the number of passengers that the person may carry in a
motor vehicle driven by the person, and




(e)

imposing other restrictions on or adding any conditions to the
driver's licence of the person that the superintendent considers
necessary for the operation of a motor vehicle by the person.




(13)

The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia must, as soon as
practicable after a restriction or condition is imposed on a person's
driver's licence, ensure that the restriction or condition is
reflected on that licence by means of the appropriate statement in,
endorsement on or attachment to that licence, in accordance with the
requirements of the superintendent.




(14)

Despite the regulations, the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia, by statement in, endorsement on, or attachment to any
person's driver's licence, may, as a result of a knowledge test, a
road test or a road signs and signals test,




(a)

restrict the area in which the person may drive a motor vehicle,




(b)

restrict the motor vehicle or class of motor vehicle that the person
may drive,




(c)

restrict the number of passengers that the person may carry in a motor
vehicle driven by the person, and




(d)

impose other restrictions on the driver's licence of the person that
the corporation considers necessary for the operation of a motor
vehicle by the person.




(14.1)

Without limiting any provision of this Act, the Lieutenant Governor in
Council may make regulations as follows:




(a)

setting out additional requirements that must be met by an applicant
for a driver's licence that indicates the driver is a Canadian citizen
or a beneficiary under the

Medicare Protection Act

;




(b)

setting out requirements that must be met or continue to be met by a
person who holds a driver's licence that indicates the driver is a
Canadian citizen or a beneficiary under the

Medicare Protection Act

;




(c)

setting out reasons for which a driver's licence that indicates the
driver is a Canadian citizen may be cancelled;




(d)

specifying that subsection (1.2) does not apply to a class of driver's
licence;




(e)

specifying that subsection (1.3) does not apply to a category of
drivers, and establishing categories for this purpose;




(f)

respecting the manner in which a driver's licence indicates that the
driver is a beneficiary under the

Medicare Protection Act

.




(15)

A person who violates a requirement, restriction or condition
prescribed under this section in respect of the person's driver's
licence or who violates a restriction or condition stated in, endorsed
on or attached to a driver's licence issued to the person under this
section commits an offence.






Retention or seizure of records




25.01

(1)


An employee of the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia, a
government agent or a person authorized in writing by the corporation
under section 25 (1) (c) may, for the purposes of this Act, retain or
seize a record




(a)

presented to the employee, government agent or person as part of an
application for a driver's licence or an identification card, or




(b)

presented to the employee, government agent or person for the purpose
of maintaining a record relating to a driver's licence or an
identification card.




(2)

Subject to subsection (3), if a record is retained or seized in
accordance with subsection (1), the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia may, in addition,




(a)

return the record to the person or government that issued or created
it,




(b)

return the record to the person who presented it, or




(c)

destroy the record.




(3)

The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia must return a record to
the person who presented it within 30 days unless




(a)

this Act requires that the record be surrendered, or




(b)

the corporation determines that retention or seizure of the record for
a longer period is necessary for the purposes of this Act.






Remedial courses and programs for drivers




25.1

(1)


This section applies if a person has a driving record that in the
opinion of the superintendent is unsatisfactory or the superintendent
considers that, with respect to the person's driving skills, fitness
or ability to drive and operate a motor vehicle, it is in the public
interest for the person to attend or participate in one or more of the
following:




(a)

a driver training course specified by the superintendent;




(b)

a remedial program or a component of it specified by the
superintendent;




(c)

an ignition interlock program specified by the superintendent.




(2)

Subject to subsection (5), the superintendent may require a statement
in, endorsement on or attachment to the person's driver's licence,
adding as a condition of the driver's licence that the person, in
order to continue to hold the licence, must attend or participate in
and complete, to the satisfaction of the superintendent, a course or
program referred to in subsection (1).




(3)

The superintendent may




(a)

as part of a condition of a driver's licence under subsection (2),
specify a date by which or a period of time during which the person
must complete the program, and




(b)

at any time extend, change or cancel a date or period of time
specified under paragraph (a).




(4)

[Repealed 2015-13-1.]




(5)

If it is, in the superintendent's opinion, contrary to the public
interest to allow the person to hold a driver's licence while
attending or participating in a course or program referred to in
subsection (1), the superintendent may require that the person attend
and complete, to the satisfaction of the superintendent, a course or
program referred to in subsection (1) (a) or (b) before
being eligible to apply for a driver's licence under section 25.




(6)

The fact that a person is required to attend or participate in and
complete a program under section 25.2 does not affect the
superintendent's power in respect of another course or program under
subsection (2) or (5) of this section in respect of that person.




(7)

[Repealed 2015-13-1.]






Mandatory programs for drivers




25.2

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), if the circumstances or conditions
described in the regulations apply to a person, the superintendent
must require a statement in, endorsement on or attachment to the
person's driver's licence, adding as a condition of the driver's
licence that the person, in order to continue to hold the licence,
must attend or participate in and complete, in accordance with the
regulations, one or more of the following as specified in the
regulations:




(a)

a remedial program or component of it specified by the superintendent;




(b)

an ignition interlock program specified by the superintendent.




(2)

If the circumstances or conditions described in the regulations apply
to a person and it is, in the superintendent's opinion, contrary to
the public interest to allow the person to hold a driver's licence
while attending or participating in a program referred to in
subsection (1) (a), the superintendent must require that the person
attend and complete, in accordance with the regulations, that program
before being eligible to apply for a driver's licence under section
25.




(3)

The obligations of the superintendent under subsections (1) and (2) do
not apply in respect of a person who has completed, after those
circumstances or conditions described in the regulations applied to
the person, a program outside of British Columbia that




(a)

corresponds to the program that the person would otherwise be required
to attend or participate in and complete, in accordance with the
regulations,




(b)

was sanctioned by the government of the jurisdiction in which the
program was completed, and




(c)

is acceptable to the superintendent.






Matters related to courses and programs for drivers




25.3

(1)


Section 25 (13) applies to a condition imposed in respect of a
person's driver's licence under section 25.1, 25.2 or 233.




(2)

A person who is required to attend or participate in a program
referred to in section 25.1, 25.2 or 233 must pay




(a)

to the government the prescribed fees, and




(b)

to the provider of the program any charges provided for in the
contract between the government and the provider.




(3)

Nothing in section 25.1, 25.2 or 233 limits the application of
sections 25 (12), 29, 92 and 93.






Refusal to issue a licence, permit, etc.




26

(1)


The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia may, without a hearing,
refuse to issue a driver's licence to a person who




(a)

[Repealed 1997-43-6.]




(b)

is indebted to the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia for any
motor vehicle indebtedness,




(c)

is indebted to the government because of the person's failure to pay a
fine, or a victim's surcharge levy within the meaning of the

Victims of Crime Act

, imposed as a result of a conviction under




(i)

a motor vehicle related

Criminal Code

offence,




(ii)

the

Motor Vehicle Act

,




(iii)

the

Commercial Transport Act

,




(iv)

the

Motor Fuel Tax Act

,




(v)

the

Transportation Act

,




(v.1)

the

Liquor Control and Licensing Act

, whether the indebtedness arose before or after this subparagraph
comes into force,




(vi)

the

Passenger Transportation Act

,




(vii)

[Repealed 2014-5-50.]




(viii)

[Repealed 2007-14-155.]




(ix)

the

South Coast British Columbia Transportation Authority Act

, whether the indebtedness arose before or after this subparagraph
comes into force,




(x)

the

British Columbia Transit Act

, whether the indebtedness arose before or after this subparagraph
comes into force,




(xi)

the

Off-Road Vehicle Act

,




(xii)

the

COVID-19 Related Measures Act

, whether the indebtedness arose before or after this subparagraph
comes into force,




(xiii)

the

Emergency Program Act

, whether the indebtedness arose before or after this subparagraph
comes into force,
or





(
xiv
)


the



Emergency and Disaster Management Act



,




(d)

is prohibited from driving a motor vehicle




(i)

under this Act, the

Youth Justice Act

, the

Youth Criminal Justice Act

(Canada) or the

Criminal Code

,




(ii)

before April 1, 2003, under the

Young Offenders Act

(Canada), as it then was, or




(iii)

before April 1, 2004, under the

Young Offenders (British Columbia) Act

, as it then was,




(e)

is indebted to a concessionaire or the billing organization for an
excessive toll debt, as those terms are defined in the

Transportation Investment Act

,




(f)

is indebted to the authority, a subsidiary or a billing organization
for an excessive toll debt, as those terms are defined in the

South Coast British Columbia Transportation Authority Act

,




(f.1)

is indebted to the authority, as that term is defined in the

South Coast British Columbia Transportation Authority Act

, under section 250 of that Act,




(g)

is refused a driver's licence in another province for failure to pay
maintenance, support or alimony in that province,




(h)

is indebted to the government because of the person's failure to pay a
monetary penalty imposed on the person under section 215.44 of this
Act, or




(i)

was the owner of a motor vehicle at the time it was impounded under
section 215.46 or 251 (1) of this Act, if the
superintendent, under section 255 (11) of this Act, directs
the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia to refuse the issuance.




(2)

The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia may refuse to issue a
licence and corresponding number plates for a motor vehicle or trailer
or both owned by a person and any permit to a person who




(a)

has not, in the current or a preceding year




(i)

[Repealed 1997-43-6.]




(ii)

obtained a motor vehicle liability policy for a motor vehicle or
trailer owned by the person,




(iii)

[Repealed 1997-43-6.]




(b)

is indebted to the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia for any
motor vehicle indebtedness,




(c)

is indebted to a concessionaire or the billing organization for an
excessive toll debt, as those terms are defined in the

Transportation Investment Act

,




(d)

is indebted to the authority, a subsidiary or a billing organization
for an excessive toll debt, as those terms are defined in the

South Coast British Columbia Transportation Authority Act

,




(d.1)

is indebted to the authority, as that term is defined in the

South Coast British Columbia Transportation Authority Act

, under section 250 of that Act, or




(e)

was the owner of a motor vehicle at the time it was impounded under
section 215.46 or 251 (1) of this Act, if the
superintendent, under section 255 (11) (b), directs the
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia to refuse the issuance.




(3)

The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia may refuse to issue




(a)

any permit to a person, and




(b)

a licence and corresponding number plates for a motor vehicle or
trailer or both owned by a person


who is indebted to the government because of the person's failure to
pay




(c)

a monetary penalty imposed under section 215.44 of this Act, or




(d)

a fine, or a victim's surcharge levy within the meaning of the

Victims of Crime Act

, imposed as a result of a conviction under




(i)

a motor vehicle related

Criminal Code

offence, or




(ii)

an enactment referred to in subsection (1) (c) (ii) to (xiii) of this
section, or




(e)

an indebtedness arising under Part 12 of the

South Coast British Columbia Transportation Authority Act

.




(4)

Subsections (1) (c) and (d) and (3) apply in respect of




(a)

drivers' licences, licences, permits and number plates issued before,
on or after the date those subsections come into force,




(b)

convictions imposed before, on or after the date those subsections
come into force, and




(c)

prohibitions imposed before, on or after the date those subsections
come into force.




(5)

Under this section, the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia may
refuse to issue a licence, number plates or a permit due to a person
who is indebted to the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia for
reimbursement of money paid in respect of a claim, until the
corporation has been repaid the amount of the indebtedness.




(6)

For the purpose of this section, a person who pays by a cheque, bill
of exchange or order to pay, the payment of which is not made by the
savings institution on which it is drawn when it is presented for
payment, whether in person or through another savings institution, is
deemed not to have paid.




(7)

For the purpose of this section, the production of a cheque, bill of
exchange or order to pay on which is marked "Under clearing rules,
this item must not be cleared again unless certified" or other words
importing that payment was not made by the savings institution, is
evidence that payment was not made.






Cancellation of driver's licence




26.1

(1)


Subject to subsection (2) but despite any other provision of this Act
or the regulations, if a person




(a)

is indebted to the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia for a
motor vehicle indebtedness or to the government for a fine
indebtedness or a monetary penalty under section 215.44, or




(b)

in respect of an application by the person for a driver's licence, or
for the purpose of maintaining a record relating to the person's
driver's licence,




(i)

makes a false or misleading statement,




(ii)

fails to disclose information that is required to be disclosed,




(iii)

presents a fraudulent or fraudulently altered record, or




(iv)

fraudulently uses a record,


the corporation may, with or without holding a hearing or refunding
the fees for the licence, cancel the driver's licence of the person.




(2)

The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia must not exercise a
right referred to in subsection (1) in respect of paragraph (a) of
that subsection unless




(a)

the corporation mails to the debtor, by registered mail, at the
debtor's most recent address recorded in the corporation's records, a
written demand for payment of that motor vehicle indebtedness or fine
indebtedness together with a notice of any action the corporation
intends to take under this section and of any appeal rights available
to the debtor under section 118.7, and




(b)

the debtor does not, within 30 days after the date of mailing, pay the
motor vehicle indebtedness or fine indebtedness or make arrangements
satisfactory to the corporation for its payment.




(2.1)

Despite any other provision of this Act or the regulations, the
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia may, with or without a
hearing or refunding the fees for the licence, cancel the driver's
licence of a person who holds a driver's licence that indicates the
person is a Canadian citizen




(a)

if the person does not meet or no longer meets the requirements set
out in regulations under section 25 (14.1) (b), or




(b)

for another reason set out in regulations under section 25 (14.1) (c).




(2.2)

The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia may, with notice, cancel
a driver's licence if either of the following applies:




(a)

the licence was issued to a person despite the person not satisfying a
requirement for the issuance of that class of licence and the person,
after receiving notice, does not satisfy the requirement for the
issuance of the licence within a time limit established by the
corporation;




(b)

the licence was issued in prescribed circumstances.




(2.3)

The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia may, with notice, cancel
a driver's licence if either of the following applies:




(a)

the corporation requests evidence under section 24.1 (3) that the
person holding the driver's licence is a resident of British Columbia
as defined in section 24.1 (1) and no evidence is provided;




(b)

the corporation is not satisfied that the person is a resident of
British Columbia as defined in section 24.1 (1).




(3)

If a person is notified that the person's driver's licence has been
cancelled under this section, the person must,




(a)

if notified of the cancellation by mail, immediately send the driver's
licence to the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia, and




(b)

if notified of the cancellation by personal service by a peace
officer, sheriff or person authorized by the corporation to do
anything under this Act, surrender the driver's licence to the serving
peace officer, sheriff or person.






Short term driver's licence




27

(1)


The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia may issue a driver's
licence, with a term of more than 90 days but less than 5 years,
to a person who has entered into an arrangement with the corporation
for the payment of




(a)

a fine indebtedness, or




(b)

a motor vehicle indebtedness.




(2)

A licence issued under subsection (1) is subject to the condition that
the person to whom the licence is issued complies with the arrangement
referred to in that subsection.




(3)

The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia may, with or without a
hearing or refunding the fees for the licence, cancel a driver's
licence issued under subsection (1) if the person to whom it is
issued fails to comply with the condition set out in
subsection (2).




(4)

If a person is notified that the person's driver's licence has been
cancelled under this section, the person must




(a)

if notified of the cancellation by mail, immediately send the driver's
licence to the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia, and




(b)

if notified of the cancellation by personal service by a peace
officer, sheriff or person authorized by the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia to do anything under this Act, surrender the driver's
licence to the serving peace officer, sheriff or person.






Inspection of vehicles and refusal to issue licence




28

(1)


The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia may refuse to issue




(a)

a licence and corresponding number plates, and




(b)

a permit


for a motor vehicle or trailer that is required under section 216
or 219 to be presented for inspection and has not been presented for
inspection or has not passed inspection.




(2)

The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia may refuse to issue a
permit for a motor vehicle or trailer that is required under section
216 to be presented for inspection and has not been presented for
inspection or has not passed inspection.






Not in force. Repealed.




28.1


[Not in force. Repealed 2006-33-1.]






Inspection of vehicles and refusal of licence or permit




28.2


The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia, for a motor vehicle or
trailer that is required under section 216 or 219 to be presented
for inspection and has not been presented for inspection or has not
passed inspection, may refuse to issue one or both of




(a)

a licence and corresponding number plates, and




(b)

a permit.






Refusal to issue licence and plates for irreparable and salvage
vehicles




28.3


The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia must refuse to issue a
licence and corresponding number plates for a vehicle if the
corporation is satisfied that




(a)

notification for the vehicle has been received under section 17.1
and the vehicle is either an irreparable vehicle or a salvage vehicle,
or




(b)

the vehicle is registered in another jurisdiction with a condition
that the vehicle may not be licensed under any circumstances.






Examination of licensees




29


The superintendent may require a person to whom a driver's licence has
been issued to attend at a time and place for one or both of the
following purposes:




(a)

to submit to one or more of the following tests, to be conducted by
the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia: a knowledge test; a
road test; a road signs and signals test;




(b)

to be otherwise examined as to the person's fitness and ability to
drive and operate motor vehicles of the category for which the person
is licensed.






No refund for driver's licence fee




30


There must be no refund of any portion of the fee prescribed for
issuing a driver's licence if




(a)

the driver's licence is




(i)

voluntarily surrendered, or




(ii)

suspended, or




(b)

the person to whom the licence is issued is prohibited from driving a
motor vehicle




(i)

under this Act, the

Youth Justice Act

, the

Youth Criminal Justice Act

(Canada) or the

Criminal Code

,




(ii)

before April 1, 2003, under the

Young Offenders Act

(Canada), as it then was, or




(iii)

before April 1, 2004, under the

Young Offenders (British Columbia) Act

, as it then was.






Change of address or name




31

(1)


If the address of a person who holds a driver's licence issued under
this Act is changed from the address stated on the driver's licence,
the person must, within 10 days of the change of address,




(a)

notify the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia of the change,
stating




(i)

the number of the person's licence,




(ii)

the person's former address, and




(iii)

the person's new address that meets the requirement under section
25 (1.1) (a), and




(b)

provide proof satisfactory to the corporation of the person's
identity.




(1.1)

A person who holds a driver's licence that indicates the driver is a
Canadian citizen and who reports a change of address under subsection
(1) must




(a)

surrender the person's existing licence to the Insurance Corporation
of British Columbia and apply and pay the prescribed fee for a
duplicate licence,




(b)

comply with the requirements of section 25 (1.2) (a) and (3) (d), and




(c)

continue to meet requirements set under section 25 (1.2) (d).




(1.2)

If a person complies with subsection (1.1), the Insurance Corporation
of British Columbia must issue a duplicate licence to the person.




(2)

In case of a change of name, by marriage or otherwise, of the holder
of a driver's licence issued under this Act, the person must, within
10 days of the change of name, notify in person the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia, a government agent or a person
authorized in writing by the corporation for the purposes of section
25 (1) of the number of the driver's licence and the former name and
the new name in full.




(3)

A person who reports a change of name under subsection (2) must




(a)

surrender the person's existing licence to the Insurance Corporation
of British Columbia and apply and pay the prescribed fee for a
duplicate licence in the person's new name,




(b)

comply with the requirements of section 25 (3) (d) and (e), and




(c)

submit proof to the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia's
satisfaction of the change of name.




(3.1)

A person who holds a driver's licence that indicates the driver is a
Canadian citizen and who reports a change of name under subsection (2)
must, in addition to the requirements of subsection (3),




(a)

comply with the requirements of section 25 (1.2) (a), and




(b)

continue to meet requirements set under section 25 (1.2) (d).




(4)

If a person complies with subsection (3) or (3.1), the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia must issue a duplicate licence in the
new name.






Application for minor's licence




32


If a driver's licence is desired by a person who is over 16 years of
age but under 19 years of age, the application for the licence
must be made by the parent or guardian of the minor in the form
required by the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia, unless the
corporation, on cause shown to the corporation's satisfaction,
dispenses with that application.






Production of licence and liability card, duplicates




33

(1)


Every person, except




(a)

a person driving or operating a motor vehicle exempted under section 2
(5) or section 8 or 10, or




(b)

a person driving or operating a motor vehicle of a fire department of
a municipality,


must have the person's driver's licence and driver's certificate and a
motor vehicle liability insurance card or financial responsibility
card, issued for the motor vehicle the person is driving or operating,
in the person's possession at all times while driving or operating
that motor vehicle on a highway, and must produce the licence,
certificate and card for inspection on demand of a peace officer.




(2)

If a driver's licence issued to a person under this Act is lost,
mutilated or destroyed, the person may obtain a duplicate licence on
application in the form required by the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia and payment of the prescribed fee if the person




(a)

surrenders to the corporation the person's existing licence if it is
mutilated but not lost or destroyed, and




(b)

complies with the requirements of section 25 (3) (d) and (e).




(2.1)

If a driver's licence that indicates the driver is a Canadian citizen
and that is issued to a person under this Act is lost, mutilated or
destroyed, the person may obtain a duplicate licence if, in addition
to the requirements of subsection (2), the person




(a)

complies with the requirements of section 25 (1.2) (a), and




(b)

continues to meet requirements set under section 25 (1.2) (d).




(3)

A person who has obtained a duplicate licence under subsection (2)




(a)

must, on finding that the licence in place of which the duplicate was
issued was not lost or destroyed, or on finding or recovering the
licence in place of which the duplicate was issued, immediately
surrender the licence in place of which the duplicate licence was
issued to the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia, and




(b)

must not by conduct, words or otherwise attempt to represent that the
licence in place of which the duplicate was issued is the person's
subsisting licence.






Exemption of non-resident and new resident drivers




34

(1)


The exemptions provided by this section apply only while a person is
driving or operating any of the following vehicles in British
Columbia:




(a)

a motor vehicle registered under section 3;




(b)

a motor vehicle registered under section 21 during the period named in
the certificate of registration issued under that section;




(c)

a motor vehicle operated under a permit issued pursuant to a
regulation made under section 11 (2) (d) of the

Commercial Transport Act

;




(d)

a motor vehicle operated under a reciprocal arrangement or agreement
made under section 10 of the

Commercial Transport Act

;




(e)

a commercial vehicle registered and licensed under the

Commercial Transport Act

;




(f)

a motor vehicle or trailer in respect of which the owner is exempted
under section 21 (1), but only for the period limited by
that subsection;




(g)

a motor vehicle operated under a permit granted under a regulation
under section 210 (2) (j).




(1.1)

Subject to subsection (1.2), the following persons are exempt, for the
period specified, from the requirements respecting the holding of a
driver's licence issued to the person under this Act:




(a)

a person who has a validly issued and subsisting driver's or
operator's licence or permit issued according to the laws where the
person is ordinarily resident, for 6 months from the date the
person last entered British Columbia;




(b)

a person who has a validly issued and subsisting driver's or
operator's licence or permit issued according to the laws of the
jurisdiction where the person was most recently ordinarily resident,
for 90 days after the person becomes a resident of British Columbia as
defined in section 24.1 (1) (a);




(c)

a person who has a validly issued and subsisting driver's or
operator's licence or permit issued according to the laws where the
person is ordinarily resident, for the period that the person is
registered as a full time student at and attends any of the
educational institutions listed in section 21 (2) (b);




(i) to (viii)

[Repealed 2003-7-42.]




(d)

a person who




(i)

has a validly issued and subsisting driver's or operator's licence or
permit issued according to the laws where the person is ordinarily
resident,




(ii)

has entered into an agreement under which the person will work in
British Columbia, as part of a program or in the circumstances
specified by regulation, for a period longer than 6 months but shorter
than one year, and




(iii)

is in a prescribed class of persons,


for the period during which the person works in British Columbia under
the agreement.




(1.2)

A person claiming an exemption under subsection (1.1) must carry with
the person a valid and subsisting driver's or operator's licence or
permit while operating a motor vehicle referred to in subsection (1)
and must produce that driver's or operator's licence or permit to a
peace officer on demand.




(2)

A person exempt under subsection (1.1) is also exempt for the same
period, while driving or operating in British Columbia a motor vehicle
set out in subsection (1) (b), (c) or (d), from
the requirements respecting the holding of a motor vehicle liability
insurance card or a financial responsibility card, subject, in every
case, to the person giving the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia proof of financial responsibility under sections 106 to
113.






Repealed




35


[Repealed 2007-28-29.]






Municipal chauffeur permits




36

(1)


In this section,

"chief of police of the municipality"

, in the case of a municipality policed by the Commissioner of
Provincial Police, means the senior member of the Royal Canadian
Mounted Police in that municipality.




(2)

[Repealed 2008-15-22.]




(3)

A chauffeur, within a municipality that has passed a bylaw under
subsection (11), must not drive, operate or be in charge of a motor
vehicle carrying passengers for hire unless the chauffeur holds a
permit for that purpose issued to the chauffeur by the chief of police
of the municipality.




(4)

A chauffeur to whom a permit is issued under subsection (3) must
comply with all regulations made by the municipality that are not
repugnant to this Act or the regulations.




(5)

If the police chief of the municipality, on proof to the police
chief's satisfaction, believes that a person holding a permit under
subsection (3), because of the person's use of or dealing in
intoxicants or narcotic drugs or any other reason, is unfit to act as
a chauffeur, the police chief may suspend or cancel the permit.




(6)

If an applicant for a chauffeur's permit is refused or a chauffeur's
permit is suspended or cancelled by the chief of police in a
municipality, the chief of police must within 24 hours after the
refusal, suspension or cancellation notify the applicant or holder in
writing stating the grounds.




(7)

An appeal lies to the council of the municipality from a refusal,
suspension or cancellation under subsection (6).




(8)

On an appeal under subsection (7), the decision of the council is
final.




(9)

A fee must not be payable for a permit issued under subsection (3).




(10)

A chauffeur who holds a permit granted or issued under this section
must




(a)

have it in the chauffeur's possession at all times while driving or
operating a motor vehicle on a highway, and




(b)

produce it for inspection at any time on the demand of a peace officer
or constable.




(11)

Subject to subsection (12), the council of a municipality may by bylaw
provide for the regulation, in accordance with this section, of
chauffeurs in the municipality and for the issue of permits to
chauffeurs by the chief of police.




(12)

The council of a municipality must not by bylaw under subsection (11)
regulate in relation to chauffeurs who operate motor vehicles under
passenger directed vehicle authorizations or transportation network
services authorizations.






Employment of unlicensed driver




37

(1)


A person must not hire or engage another person to drive or operate a
motor vehicle where this Act requires the driver to be licensed,
unless the person hired or engaged holds a driver's licence under this
Act of a class that entitles the person to drive and operate that
motor vehicle.




(2)

A person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence.






Demonstration licence




38

(1)


A demonstration licence may be issued to




(a)

a dealer, or




(b)

a person other than a dealer who




(i)

is engaged in the business of selling motor vehicles or trailers, and




(ii)

establishes to the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia's
satisfaction that the person requires a demonstration licence in
connection with that business.




(2)

An application for a demonstration licence must be




(a)

made in the form required by the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia,




(b)

signed by the applicant,




(c)

accompanied by an application in the prescribed form for a motor
vehicle liability policy under the

Insurance (Vehicle) Act

in respect of each demonstration licence and number plate issued under
this section,




(d)

delivered to




(i)

the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia,




(ii)

a government agent, or




(iii)

a person authorized in writing by the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia for the purposes of this section,




(e)

accompanied by the prescribed fees and insurance premium, and




(f)

in the case of an application by a dealer, accompanied by a copy of a
valid motor dealer's licence issued under the

Motor Dealer Act

.




(3)

On receiving the application in the form required by the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia, the corporation may issue the
applicant a demonstration licence and distinctive demonstration number
plate authorizing the applicant to operate a vehicle for all purposes
relating to the business to which the application pertains.




(4)

A vehicle operated under subsection (3), until sold or operated
otherwise than for purposes relating to the business to which the
demonstration licence pertains, is deemed to be sufficiently licensed
for the purpose of this Act and of the

Commercial Transport Act

.




(5)

For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4),

"purposes relating to the business"

includes personal use of a vehicle of the holder of the demonstration
licence by the holder, the holder's vehicle salespersons and members
of the holder's or the vehicle salespersons' households, but does not
include use of a vehicle for a commercial purpose not directly related
to the sale of the vehicle.




(6)

The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia may suspend or cancel a
demonstration licence issued under this section if the corporation
believes it is in the public interest.






Inspections respecting demonstration licences




39

(1)


A person who is the holder of a demonstration licence issued under
section 38, and any other person who occupies or is in possession
of the premises described in paragraph (a) or (b), must at all times
during business hours, on the request of a peace officer, permit the
peace officer, for the purpose of the administration and enforcement
of this Act,




(a)

to enter the place of business of the holder of the demonstration
licence to inspect the holder's records, and




(b)

subject to subsection (2), to enter any premises in which is kept or
stored for the purposes of the holder of the demonstration licence a
vehicle owned, possessed or controlled by the holder and inspect all
vehicles on the premises.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not require the holder of a demonstration licence,
or other person, to permit a peace officer access to premises
described in subsection (1) that constitute a dwelling place unless
required by order of the Supreme Court issued by the court on
application by the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia.






Refund of fees




40

(1)


A holder of a demonstration licence issued under section 38 who
ceases to carry on the business in respect of which the demonstration
licence was issued must immediately surrender the licence and
corresponding number plates to an office of the Insurance Corporation
of British Columbia.




(2)

If a holder of a demonstration licence surrenders number plates under
subsection (1), or for another reason, the holder of the demonstration
licence is entitled to a refund of that part of the licence fee that
is proportionate to that part of the term of the licence that is
unexpired at the time of its surrender, and on the certificate of the
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia showing the surrender, the
Minister of Finance must, subject to subsection (3), make the refund
out of revenue collected under this Act.




(3)

A refund must not be made under subsection (2) if the combined amount
of




(a)

the licence fee to be refunded under this section, and




(b)

the insurance premium to be refunded under the

Insurance (Vehicle) Act

, in a circumstance described in subsection (2),

is less than $5.





Transporters' licences




41

(1)


In this section:


"freight"
includes personal property of every description that may be conveyed
on a motor vehicle or trailer, but does not include a passenger's
personal baggage;



"limited freight vehicle"

means a motor vehicle operated at any time on a highway by, for or on
behalf of any person who charges or collects compensation for the
transportation of freight in or on the motor vehicle, but only if




(a)

the operation is carried on solely under a limited number of special
or individual contracts or agreements, and




(b)

the motor vehicle is not available for use by the general public;



"public freight vehicle"

means a motor vehicle, other than a limited freight vehicle, that is
operated at any time on a highway by, for or on behalf of any person
who charges or collects compensation for the transportation of freight
in or on the motor vehicle;



"transportation"

, with respect to freight, includes the shipment, care, handling,
storage and delivery of it;



"transporter"

means a person regularly engaged in the business of transporting
vehicles.




(2)

This section does not apply in respect of a public freight vehicle.




(3)

A transporter must not engage in the business of delivery of vehicles
that are




(a)

not the transporter's own, and




(b)

required to be registered and licensed under this Act or the

Commercial Transport Act



unless the transporter holds a valid and subsisting transporter's
licence issued under this section.




(4)

An application for a transporter's licence must be




(a)

made in the form required by the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia,




(b)

signed by the transporter,




(c)

delivered to




(i)

the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia,




(ii)

a government agent, or




(iii)

a person authorized in writing by the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia for the purposes of this section, and




(d)

accompanied by the prescribed fee.




(5)

On receiving the application form, the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia, if satisfied that the applicant is entitled to a
transporter's licence, must issue the applicant a transporter's
licence in the form established by the corporation, and a distinctive
transporter number plate corresponding to the licence, authorizing the
transporter to operate or tow any vehicle on the highway other than a
vehicle owned by the transporter.




(6)

A vehicle driven or towed on a highway under authority of a
transporter's licence is deemed sufficiently registered and licensed
for the purposes of this Act and the

Commercial Transport Act

.




(7)

A transporter number plate must be conspicuously displayed on every
vehicle that is




(a)

being delivered in the course of business of a transporter, and




(b)

in direct contact with the highway.




(8)

A transporter number plate must not be used by a person other than




(a)

a licensee, or




(b)

an authorized person in the regular employ of the transporter.




(9)

A person driving a vehicle that displays a transporter number plate
must carry with the person and produce on demand of a peace officer
evidence that the person




(a)

holds a valid and subsisting licence with which the number plate was
issued, or




(b)

is the duly authorized regular employee of the person who holds a
valid and subsisting licence with which the number plate was issued.




(10)

A licence issued under this section is not transferable.




(11)

A holder of a licence under this section who ceases to carry on the
business of transporting vehicles must immediately transmit to the
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia a notice in writing
relinquishing the holder's licence and all transporter number plates
held by the holder.






Manufacturer's licence




42

(1)


Subject to this section, a licence known as a manufacturer's licence
may be issued to a manufacturer of vehicles.




(2)

An application for a manufacturer's licence must be




(a)

made in the form required by the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia,




(b)

signed by or on behalf of the manufacturer,




(c)

delivered to




(i)

the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia,




(ii)

a government agent, or




(iii)

a person authorized in writing by the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia for the purposes of this section, and




(d)

accompanied by the prescribed fee.




(3)

On receiving the application form, the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia, if satisfied that the applicant is entitled to it,
must issue the applicant a manufacturer's licence in the form
established by the corporation, and a distinctive manufacturer's
number plate corresponding to the licence.




(3.1)

A manufacturer's licence authorizes the use or operation on a highway
of a vehicle manufactured by the manufacturer for the following
purposes:




(a)

a road test;




(b)

delivery of the vehicle to another place of business of the
manufacturer;




(c)

delivery of the vehicle to a purchaser.




(3.2)

A vehicle referred to in subsection (3.1) (b) or (c) must be delivered
without load unless




(a)

the vehicle complies with safety standards under the

Motor Vehicle Safety Act

(Canada) and bears the national safety mark as required under that
Act, and




(b)

the load is comprised of vehicles manufactured by the manufacturer.




(4)

A vehicle driven on a highway under authority of a manufacturer's
licence is deemed sufficiently registered and licensed for the
purposes of this Act and the

Commercial Transport Act

.




(5)

A manufacturer's number plate must be conspicuously displayed on every
vehicle being used or operated on a highway.




(6)

A manufacturer's number plate must not be used by a person other than




(a)

the licensee,




(b)

an authorized person in the regular employ of the manufacturer, or




(c)

in the case of a trailer that is being delivered, either person
referred to in paragraph (a) or (b) or a person authorized
by the manufacturer.




(7)

A licence issued under this section is not transferable.




(8)

A holder of a licence under this section who ceases to carry on the
business of manufacturing vehicles must immediately transmit to the
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia a notice in writing
relinquishing the manufacturer's licence and all manufacturer's number
plates held by the manufacturer.






Operation of motor vehicle by customer




43

(1)


If,




(a)

under section 41, a transporter is delivering a motor vehicle to a
purchaser, or




(b)

under section 42, a manufacturer is delivering a motor vehicle to a
purchaser,


any person who is the purchaser of the motor vehicle or an employee of
the purchaser and who has in the person's possession a written consent
given to the person by the transporter or the manufacturer for the
operation of the motor vehicle under this section may, for a period
not exceeding 4 days from the time the written consent is given
to the person, drive and operate the motor vehicle having displayed on
it the transporter's number plate or manufacturer's number plate,
without being the holder of a transporter's or manufacturer's licence
or being accompanied by a person holding those licences.




(2)

A consent is not sufficient for the purposes of this section unless
the date and the hour of the day on which it is given and the
signature of the person giving it are legibly written on it in ink.






Repairer's licence




44

(1)


For the purpose of this section,
"repairer's garage"
means a place of business primarily designed or used for the purpose
of repairing motor vehicles or trailers, but does not include a place
of business from which motive fuel, lubricating oil, antifreeze or
other similar products, and services incidental to them, are sold or
provided except in relation to repairs.




(2)

The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia may, on receiving an
application in the form the corporation requires, and payment of the
prescribed fee, and payment of the insurance fee prescribed under the

Insurance (Vehicle) Act

, issue to the owner of a repairer's garage a repairer's licence and
the number of corresponding number plates that the owner applies for.




(3)

A motor vehicle or trailer being driven, operated or towed on a
highway by the owner of a repairer's garage, or the owner's agent or
employee, for the purpose of repairing, testing or rendering a service
incidental to the repairing or testing, of the motor vehicle or
trailer, and that has attached to it a number plate issued to the
owner under subsection (2), is deemed to be sufficiently
registered and licensed for the purposes of this Act and the

Commercial Transport Act

.






Operation of demonstration cars by written consent




45

(1)


A prospective purchaser of a motor vehicle, entrusted with a motor
vehicle by a holder of a demonstration licence issued under section 38
for the sole purpose of demonstration, and in possession of a written
consent given to the prospective purchaser by the demonstration
licence holder for the operation of the motor vehicle under this
section, may, for a period not exceeding 48 hours from the time the
written consent is given to the prospective purchaser, and not
occurring more than twice in any year, drive and operate the motor
vehicle having displayed on it a demonstration licence plate issued to
that demonstration licence holder.




(2)

A consent is not sufficient for the purposes of this subsection unless
the date and the hour of the day on which it is given and the
signature of the demonstration licence holder are legibly written on
it in ink by the demonstration licence holder.




(3)

A person may drive and operate on a highway a motor vehicle entrusted
to the person by a demonstration licence holder if the person




(a)

is the owner of another motor vehicle that has suffered damage through
accident and that is undergoing repair in the repair shop of the
demonstration licence holder,




(b)

is entrusted with the motor vehicle by the demonstration licence
holder for the sole purpose of use until completion of the repair
referred to in paragraph (a),




(c)

is in possession of a written consent given by the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia or an officer or constable of the
Royal Canadian Mounted Police for the operation of the motor vehicle
under this subsection,




(d)

displays on the motor vehicle a demonstration licence plate issued to
the demonstration licence holder, and




(e)

drives and operates the motor vehicle only until completion of the
repair referred to in paragraph (a).




(4)

A person to whom a consent for the purpose of this section is given by
a demonstration licence holder, the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia or an officer or constable of the Royal Canadian Mounted
Police must at all times while driving or operating on a highway the
motor vehicle for which the consent is given produce the consent for
inspection on demand of a peace officer or constable.




(5)

A person who is a mechanic in the regular employ of a demonstration
licence holder and is entrusted with a motor vehicle by the
demonstration licence holder for the sole purpose of conditioning or
testing it may drive and operate the motor vehicle having displayed on
it a demonstration licence plate, issued to that demonstration licence
holder, on any highway.




(6)

A person who is in the regular employ of a demonstration licence
holder, or authorized by the demonstration licence holder in writing,
and entrusted with the motor vehicle by the demonstration licence
holder for the sole purpose of its transportation from a railway
depot, wharf or a warehouse to a salesroom, warehouse or place of
shipment, or delivery to a purchaser of the motor vehicle, may drive
and operate the motor vehicle, having displayed on it a demonstration
licence plate, issued to that demonstration licence holder, on any
highway.






Offences




46


A person who drives or operates or supervises the operation on a
highway of a motor vehicle having displayed on it a demonstration
number plate, and who is not a prospective purchaser or a mechanic or
other person entitled to drive and operate the motor vehicle under
section 38 or 45, commits an offence.






Pollution control devices on motor vehicles




47

(1)


[Repealed RS1996 (Supp)-318-10.]




(2)

A person must not operate a motor vehicle of a class or type that, by
regulations made under this Act or under the

Environmental Management Act

, is required to have installed on or incorporated in it a system or
device to prevent or lessen the emission into the outdoor atmosphere
of an air contaminant, unless the motor vehicle has the system or
device installed on or incorporated in it and makes effective use of
the system or device.




(3)

A person who contravenes this section commits an offence and is liable
on conviction to a fine of not less than $50 and not more than
$500.




(4)

[Repealed RS1996 (Supp)-318-10.]






Repealed




48-50


[Repealed 2015-13-4.]






Issuance of new number plate or validation decal




51

(1)


In case of the loss, mutilation or destruction of a number plate held
by a licensee under this Act, if the licensee gives the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia an application in the form the
corporation requires, accompanied by satisfactory proof of the loss,
mutilation or destruction, and delivers to the corporation the
licence, and, if possible, the number plates issued with it, and pays
the prescribed fee, the corporation must cancel the licence and issue
to the licensee a new licence with its corresponding number plates.




(2)

In the case of loss, mutilation or destruction of a validation decal
issued to the licensee, the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia
may




(a)

issue a new validation decal to the licensee if the licensee




(i)

provides satisfactory proof of the loss, mutilation or destruction of
a validation decal issued to the licensee,




(ii)

applies in the form that the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia
requires, and




(iii)

pays the prescribed fee, if any, or




(b)

instead of issuing new validation decals, issue a prescribed document
or take a prescribed action respecting the validity of a licence.






Carrying of revenue receipt in place of licence




52

(1)


If an application has been made for a licence for a motor vehicle
under section 3, or if an existing licence has been surrendered
on an application for a new or substituted licence under section 3, 17
or 51, and an official receipt has been obtained showing the payment
of all fees prescribed in respect of the application, then, during the
part of the year for which the licence has been applied for, or the
surrendered licence was issued, elapsing between the time of
application and receipt by the applicant of the licence issued under
section 3 or the substituted licence issued under section 3,
17 or 51, or the receipt by the applicant of notice that the
application has been refused, the obtaining, carrying and exhibition
of the official receipt in place of a licence is deemed a sufficient
compliance with the provisions of this Act as to the obtaining,
carrying and exhibition of a licence for that motor vehicle.




(2)

If the licence issued for a motor vehicle has been surrendered to the
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia in accordance with section
14 or 15, the provisions of section 11 respecting the carrying of the
licence do not apply until a new licence in substitution for it is
returned to the registered owner of the motor vehicle concerned.






Repealed




53-55


[Repealed 2010-14-5.]






Letting vehicles for hire




56

(1)


Except when a motor vehicle is let for hire to a corporation, a person
carrying on the business of letting motor vehicles for hire without
drivers must not let a motor vehicle for hire without first doing both
of the following:




(a)

ascertaining by inspection of a licence or permit produced by the
person to whom the motor vehicle is let that that person holds




(i)

a subsisting driver's licence under this Act for the operation of that
motor vehicle, or




(ii)

a subsisting driver's or operator's licence or permit referred to in
section 34 (1.1);




(b)

having the person to whom the motor vehicle is let sign that person's
name to an entry in a record book to be kept by the person carrying on
business, showing the name and address of the person to whom the motor
vehicle is let and the number of that person's licence or permit.




(2)

A person who is required to keep a record book under this section must
produce it for inspection at any time on the demand of a peace officer
or constable.






Used vehicle records and plates




57

(1)


A person engaged in the business of buying, selling, exchanging,
wrecking or otherwise dealing in second hand or used motor vehicles
must




(a)

keep a record in the form prescribed by the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia of every motor vehicle bought, sold, exchanged,
dismantled or broken up by the person, and




(b)

produce the record for inspection at any time on the demand of a peace
officer or constable.




(2)

A person who dismantles or breaks up a motor vehicle, or has a motor
vehicle in the person's possession for the purpose of breaking it up
or dismantling it, must immediately deliver to the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia the number plates of the motor
vehicle.






Removal or obliteration of engine or vehicle identification number
prohibited




58

(1)


A person must not, without the written consent of the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia, remove or obliterate the
manufacturer's engine number or vehicle identification number on a
motor vehicle.




(2)

If, with respect to a motor vehicle, any of the circumstances referred
to in section 16 (1) (a) to (c) exist and a new
vehicle identification number has not been assigned to and applied on
the motor vehicle under section 16, a person must not without the
written consent of the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia buy,
sell, exchange, dismantle or break up that motor vehicle.






Offence




59


Every person who contravenes section 57 or 58 commits an offence.






Term and duration of licences




60

(1)


Subject to this section, the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia
may issue a licence for a motor vehicle or trailer for a term greater
than 11 months but not more than 12 months duration starting at
the beginning of the day on the effective date specified in the
licence or at the time and date of validation specified in the
licence, whichever is later, and expiring at the end of the day on the
date specified in the licence as the expiry date unless the licence




(a)

is earlier suspended, revoked, cancelled or surrendered,




(b)

expires on an earlier date prescribed by regulation, or




(c)

expires on an earlier date because the holder of a driver's licence is
prohibited from driving a motor vehicle




(i)

under this Act, the

Youth Justice Act

, the

Youth Criminal Justice Act

(Canada) or the

Criminal Code

,




(ii)

before April 1, 2003, under the

Young Offenders Act

(Canada), as it then was, or




(iii)

before April 1, 2004, under the

Young Offenders (British Columbia) Act

, as it then was
.




(2)

For the purpose of subsection (1), a licence issued on February 29
expires at the end of the day on February 28 of the following year.




(3)

The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia may issue a licence for
a term of 11 months or less for a motor vehicle or trailer that
comes within a class of motor vehicles or trailers prescribed under
section 210 (2) (k) (i) and may, subject to a regulation made under
section 210 (2) (k) (ii), specify on the licence the time and dates on
which the term of the licence begins and expires.




(4)

Subject to subsections (5), (5.1) and (6), section 27 and any
regulations under this section, a driver's licence issued under this
Act, other than a driver's licence issued under
section 25 (8), must be for a period of 5 years from the
anniversary of the birth of the applicant nearest to the date the
licence is issued.




(5)

Subject to subsection (5.1), the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia may issue to a person a driver's licence with a term of more
than one year and less than 5 years if the person has never before
been issued a driver's licence under this Act other than a driver's
licence issued under section 25 (8).




(5.1)

If authorized by order of the minister, the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia may extend the term of a driver's licence, on an
individual basis or for a class of persons, that expires during




(a)

a state of emergency declared under section 9 (1) of the

Emergency Program Act

, or




(b)

a state of local emergency declared under section 12 (1) of the

Emergency Program Act

.




(6)

The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia, if directed by the
superintendent, must issue to a person a driver's licence with a term
of less than 5 years, in accordance with the direction, if




(a)

the person is or was prohibited from driving a motor vehicle




(i)

under this Act, the

Youth Justice Act

, the

Youth Criminal Justice Act

(Canada) or the

Criminal Code

,




(ii)

before April 1, 2003, under the

Young Offenders Act

(Canada), as it then was, or




(iii)

before April 1, 2004, under the

Young Offenders (British Columbia) Act

, as it then was,




(a.1)

the person's driver's licence is or was suspended and the person's
right to apply for or obtain a driver's licence is or was suspended,




(a.2)

the person's driver's licence is or was cancelled under section 92
(d), or




(b)

the superintendent considers it necessary because of the person's
medical condition.




(7)

If the Lieutenant Governor in Council has prescribed a term for
licences issued for antique motor vehicles, collectors' motor vehicles
or motor vehicles of a similar class, a licence issued for a motor
vehicle in that class must be for the term specified by that
regulation.




(8)

The anniversary of the birth of a person born on February 29 for years
other than leap years is deemed to be March 1.




(9) to (11)

[Repealed RS1996-318-60 (11).]






Cancellation of driver's licence




61

(1)


With or without refunding the fees for the licence, the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia, at the direction of the
superintendent, shall cancel a driver's licence in the circumstances
referred to in section 60 (6) (a), (a.1), (a.2) or (b).




(2)

If a person is notified that the person's driver's licence has been
cancelled under this section, the person must,




(a)

if notified of the cancellation by mail, immediately send the person's
driver's licence to the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia, and




(b)

if notified of the cancellation by personal service by a peace
officer, sheriff or person authorized by the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia to do anything under this Act, surrender the person's
driver's licence to the serving peace officer, sheriff or person.






Fees




62

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may prescribe fees for registration
and licences under this Act.




(2)

If a licence for a motor vehicle or trailer is issued for a term of
less than 12 months, the licence fee must be




(a)

an amount calculated at the prescribed annual licence fee for a motor
vehicle or trailer of the same class prorated for each month and
fraction of a month in the term of the licence, plus a surcharge if
any is prescribed under section 210 (2) (l) for the licence, and




(b)

if no annual licence fee is prescribed for a motor vehicle or trailer
of the same class, the amount determined under section 210 (2) (l).




(3)

For the purposes of subsection (2), the amount of the fee must be
rounded to the nearest dollar, and an amount ending in 50¢ must be
raised to the next highest dollar.






Rebate of part of licence fees




63

(1)


Despite section 62, the Lieutenant Governor in Council may by
regulation provide that for any licence year a rebate of 20% of the
prescribed licence fees for motor vehicles of the private passenger
type must be granted.




(2)

A rebate under subsection (1) applies both to licences for the whole
of the licence year specified in the regulations and to licences for
any part of it.






Recovery of licence fees




64

(1)


The registration and licence fees required under this Act to be paid
for a motor vehicle or trailer become delinquent immediately on the
operation of the motor vehicle or trailer on a highway without the
licence fee required under this Act first having been paid, and form a
charge on the motor vehicle or trailer for which they are delinquent.




(2)

The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia may seize and sell the
motor vehicle or trailer referred to in subsection (1) at public
auction, and out of the proceeds of sale must satisfy the delinquent
licence fee and the costs and expenses of sale, and pay any surplus to
the owner or person in possession of the motor vehicle or trailer at
the time of seizure.




(3)

Instead of seizure and sale of the motor vehicle under subsection (2),
the delinquent licence fee may be recovered in a court of competent
jurisdiction in the name of the Attorney General, with costs, as a
debt due to the government by any person who under this Act should
have paid the fee.




(4)

A peace officer may, on the direction of the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia, seize any number plate for the issuance of which
full fees have not been paid in accordance with this Act, and must
immediately deliver the plate or cause it to be delivered to the
corporation.






Repealed




65


[Repealed 2015-13-5.]






Persons authorized to take affidavits




66

(1)


For the purposes of carrying out the powers, duties and functions
under this Act of the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia, the
corporation and every person authorized in writing by the corporation
has power to take the affidavits required or authorized to be made
under this Act.




(1.1)

For the purposes of carrying out the powers, duties and functions of
the director under this Act, the director and every person authorized
in writing by the director has power to take the affidavits required
or authorized to be made under this Act.




(2)

For the purposes of carrying out the powers, duties and functions
under this Act of the superintendent, the superintendent and every
person authorized in writing by the superintendent has power to take
the affidavits required or authorized to be made under this Act.




(3)

[Repealed 1999-6-21.]






Repealed




67


[Repealed 2008-42-78.]






Duty of driver at accident




68

(1)


The driver or operator or any other person in charge of a vehicle that
is, directly or indirectly, involved in an accident on a highway must
do all of the following:




(a)

remain at or immediately return to the scene of the accident;




(b)

render all reasonable assistance;




(c)

produce in writing to any other driver involved in the accident and to
anyone sustaining loss or injury, and, on request, to a witness




(i)

the name and address of the driver, operator or other person in charge
of the vehicle,




(ii)

the name and address of the registered owner of the vehicle,




(iii)

the licence number of the vehicle, and




(iv)

particulars of the motor vehicle liability insurance card or financial
responsibility card and, if applicable, blanket certificate for that
vehicle,


or such of that information as is requested.




(2)

The driver or operator or any other person in charge of a vehicle that
collides with an unattended vehicle must stop and must




(a)

locate and notify in writing the person in charge of or the owner of
the unattended vehicle of




(i)

the name and address of the driver, operator or other person in
charge,




(ii)

the name and address of the registered owner, and




(iii)

the licence number


of the vehicle that struck the unattended vehicle, or




(b)

leave in a conspicuous place in or on the vehicle collided with a
notice in writing giving the information referred to in paragraph (a).




(3)

The driver or operator or any other person in charge of a vehicle
involved in an accident resulting in damage to property on or adjacent
to a highway, other than a vehicle under subsection (2), must take
reasonable steps to locate and notify in writing the owner or person
in charge of the property of the fact of the accident and of the
following:




(a)

the name and address of the driver, operator or other person in charge
of the vehicle;




(b)

the name and address of the registered owner;




(c)

the licence number of the vehicle.






False statements, misuse of number plates, licence, identification
card or permit




69

(1)


A person commits an offence if the person does any of the following:




(a)

makes a false statement in




(i)

an application for registration of a motor vehicle or trailer,




(ii)

[Repealed 2009-10-7.]




(iii)

an application for another licence or certificate, permit or consent,




(iv)

a notice of transfer of a motor vehicle or trailer,




(v)

a report of an accident, or




(vi)

a notice of relinquishment of a licence under this Act;




(b)

being in possession or control of a number plate issued under this Act
or under an Act of any province of Canada, permits another person to
use the number plate on a motor vehicle or trailer other than the one
for which it was issued;




(c)

being the holder of a permit, certificate or consent issued or given
to the person under this Act or under an Act of a province of Canada,
permits another person to possess or use it.




(2)

A person commits an offence if the person, in




(a)

applying for a driver's licence or an identification card,




(b)

assisting another person in applying for a driver's licence or an
identification card,




(c)

presenting records or providing information for the purpose of
maintaining a record relating to a driver's licence or an
identification card, or




(d)

assisting another person in presenting records or providing
information for the purpose of maintaining a record relating to a
driver's licence or an identification card,

does any of the following:



(e)

makes a false or misleading statement;




(f)

fails to disclose information that is required to be disclosed;




(g)

presents a fraudulent or fraudulently altered record;




(h)

fraudulently uses a record.




(3)

A person commits an offence if the person




(a)

allows another person to use or possess a driver's licence or an
identification card issued to the person under this Act or under an
Act of a province of Canada,




(b)

represents that a driver's licence or an identification card is a
driver's licence or an identification card issued under this Act when
the driver's licence or identification card is not issued under this
Act, or




(c)

produces or uses a facsimile of a driver's licence or an
identification card without authority from the Insurance Corporation
of British Columbia.




(4)

A person who contravenes subsection (2) or (3) is liable to a fine of
not less than $400 and not more than $20 000 or to imprisonment for
not more than 6 months, or to both.






Use of another's licence or permit; failure to permit inspection




70

(1)


A person commits an offence if the person, while driving, operating or
in charge of a motor vehicle on a highway does any of the following:




(a)

uses or is in possession of




(i)

a permit, certificate, motor vehicle liability insurance card,
financial responsibility card or consent issued or given under this
Act and belonging to another person, or




(ii)

a fictitious or invalid permit, certificate, motor vehicle liability
insurance card, financial responsibility card or consent purporting to
be issued or given under this Act;




(b)

refuses or fails to produce a subsisting driver's licence, permit,
certificate, motor vehicle liability insurance card, financial
responsibility card, or consent issued to the person under this Act
when requested by a peace officer or constable to do so, or refuses or
fails to permit it to be taken in hand for the purpose of inspection
by the peace officer or constable.




(1.1)

A person commits an offence if the person uses or is in possession of




(a)

an identification card belonging to another person, or a fictitious or
invalid identification card purporting to be issued or given under
this Act, or




(b)

a driver's licence belonging to another person, or a fictitious or
invalid driver's licence purporting to be issued or given under this
Act, whether while driving, operating or in charge of a motor vehicle
on a highway or not.




(2)

A person who contravenes subsection (1) (a) commits an offence and is
liable to a fine of not less than $100 and not more than $2 000 or to
imprisonment for not less than 7 days and not more than 6 months,
or to both.




(3)

A person who contravenes subsection (1.1) is liable to a fine of not
less than $400 and not more than $20 000 or to imprisonment for not
more than 6 months, or to both.






Production of motor vehicle licences




71


A person commits an offence if the person, being in possession or
control of a motor vehicle or trailer for which a licence has been
issued under this Act, and being requested by a peace officer or
constable to produce or exhibit the licence, refuses or fails to do
so.






Transporting animals




72


A person commits an offence if the person transports a living animal
on the runningboard, fender, hood or other exterior part of a motor
vehicle unless a suitable cage, carrier or guard rail is provided and
is attached adequately to protect that animal from falling or being
thrown from the vehicle.






Failing to stop and state name




73

(1)


A peace officer may require the driver of a motor vehicle to stop and
the driver of a motor vehicle, when signalled or requested to stop by
a peace officer who is readily identifiable as a peace officer, must
immediately come to a safe stop.




(2)

When requested by a peace officer, the driver of a motor vehicle or
the person in charge of a motor vehicle on a highway must state
correctly the driver's or person's name and address and the name and
address of the owner of the motor vehicle.




(3)

A person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) commits an offence and
is liable to a fine of not less than $100 and not more than $2 000 or
to imprisonment for not less than 7 days and not more than 6 months,
or to both.






Alteration and use of fictitious number plates or documents




74

(1)


A person commits an offence if the person




(a)

alters, obliterates or repaints a figure or letter




(i)

on a number plate issued under this Act,




(ii)

on a validation decal issued under section 12 (2) or 51 (2), or




(iii)

on any other document issued under this Act for the temporary
operation of a motor vehicle or trailer,




(b)

drives, operates or has charge of a motor vehicle or trailer having
displayed on it




(i)

a number plate, validation decal or document referred to in paragraph
(a) on which a figure or letter has been altered, obliterated or
repainted, or




(ii)

a number plate, validation decal or other document for the temporary
operation of a motor vehicle or trailer, that has not been issued
under this Act but that is of a colour or design resembling or
purporting to be a number plate, validation decal or document for the
temporary operation of a motor vehicle or trailer issued under this
Act,




(c)

alters a driver's licence or an identification card issued under this
Act, or




(d)

drives, operates or has charge of a motor vehicle or trailer while in
possession of a driver's licence that has been altered.




(2)

Subsection (1) (b) applies to a number plate, validation decal or
other document for the temporary operation of a motor vehicle or
trailer issued in another jurisdiction.




(3)

Subsection (1) (d) applies to a driver's licence issued in another
jurisdiction.




(4)

A person who contravenes subsection (1) (c) or (d) is liable to a fine
of not less than $400 and not more than $20 000 or to imprisonment for
not more than 6 months, or to both.






General offence




75


A person who contravenes a section of this Act by doing an act that it
forbids, or omitting to do an act that it requires to be done, commits
an offence.






No suspended sentence where minimum punishment




76


Despite section 89 of the

Offence Act

, if a defendant is convicted of an offence for which a minimum
punishment is established under this Act, the court must not suspend
the passing of sentence.






Application of fines




77

(1)


Despite any statute, all fines imposed under this Act in prosecutions
on information laid by an officer or constable of the Royal Canadian
Mounted Police must, when paid or recovered, be paid to the Minister
of Finance and form part of the consolidated revenue fund.




(2)

This section does not apply to a municipality for the policing of
which an agreement is in force under section 39 of the
Police and Prisons Regulation Act
, R.S.B.C. 1960, c. 288.






Limitation of actions




78


An information for or in respect of an offence against or a
contravention of this Act or the regulations must be laid within
12 months from the time when the matter of the information arose.






Arrest without warrant




79


An officer or constable of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police or of the
police department of a municipality may arrest without warrant




(a)

a person who the officer or constable finds driving a motor vehicle,
and who the officer or constable has reasonable and probable grounds
to believe was driving in contravention of section 95
or 102,




(b)

a person driving a motor vehicle who the officer or constable has
reasonable and probable grounds to believe is not insured as required
by this Act or does not hold a valid and subsisting motor vehicle
liability insurance card or financial responsibility card, and




(c)

a person who the officer or the constable has reasonable and probable
grounds to believe has contravened section 68,


and may detain the person arrested until the person can be brought
before a justice to be dealt with according to law.






Onus of proof of licence




80


In a prosecution under this Act, if it appears the defendant or
accused has done an act or has committed an act or omission for which,
were the defendant or accused not licensed or insured under a valid
and subsisting motor vehicle liability policy or in possession of a
permit or a motor vehicle liability insurance card or a financial
responsibility card, the defendant or accused would be liable to some
penalty under this Act, the defendant or accused must prove the
defendant or accused is licensed or insured under a valid and
subsisting motor vehicle liability policy or in possession of a permit
or a motor vehicle liability insurance card or a financial
responsibility card.






Evidence of licence or permit




81

(1)


The production of a licence, permit, consent or certificate, motor
vehicle liability insurance card and financial responsibility card
which on its face purports to be duly issued, and were it duly issued
would be a lawful authority to the defendant accused of an act or
omission, is evidence that the defendant is so authorized.




(2)

In all cases the signature to an instrument purporting to be a valid
licence, permit, consent or certificate, motor vehicle liability
insurance card and financial responsibility card is in the absence of
evidence to the contrary to be taken to be genuine.






Records and proof




82

(1)


If a record is kept by the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia,
the director or the superintendent under this Act, the corporation,
director or superintendent, as the case may be, may




(a)

have the record photocopied,




(b)

have the record or its contents stored in electronic format,




(c)

have the record or its contents reproduced on a record that enables
the information to be subsequently displayed or immediately accessible
in visible form, or




(d)

keep the record or its contents in any other prescribed manner.




(2)

If information from a record to be kept by the Insurance Corporation
of British Columbia, the director or the superintendent is converted
into another format under subsection (1), the corporation, director or
superintendent, as the case may be, may destroy the paper format of
the record and the information, in the format into which it has been
converted, is deemed to be the record so converted.




(3)

If records are kept by the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia,
the director or the superintendent otherwise than in paper format, the
corporation, director or superintendent, as the case may be, must
provide, in intelligible form, any copy of those records that, under
this Act, the corporation, director or superintendent, as the case may
be, is required to provide.




(4)

A copy of, or extract from, a record kept in a format other than an
electronic format by the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia,
the director or the superintendent under this Act, certified to be a
true copy or extract by an officer of the corporation or by the
director or the superintendent, as the case may be, is




(a)

evidence of the record or of the part of the record extracted and of
the facts stated in the record or the part of the record, and




(b)

conclusive proof that the corporation, director or superintendent, as
the case may be, is the keeper of the record, in fulfillment of the
corporation's, the director's or the superintendent's responsibility
under this section.




(5)

A reproduction in paper format of a record kept in electronic format
by the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia, the director or the
superintendent is evidence of the record and of the facts stated in
the record, and is conclusive proof that the corporation, director or
superintendent, as the case may be, is the keeper of the record, in
fulfillment of the corporation's, the director's or the
superintendent's responsibility under this section, if




(a)

the reproduction is certified to be a true copy by an officer of the
corporation or by the director or the superintendent, as the case may
be, or




(b)

the reproduction contains a statement to the effect that the
reproduction is an authentic reproduction of information stored in a
database in electronic format by the corporation, director or
superintendent, as the case may be.




(6)

A record of information, based on the records kept by the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia, the director or the superintendent
under this Act, is evidence of the facts contained in the record if




(a)

the information is contained in a certificate of an officer of the
corporation, or of the director or the superintendent, as the case may
be, or




(b)

the record contains a statement to the effect that the record is an
authentic reproduction of information stored in a database in
electronic format by the corporation, director or superintendent, as
the case may be.




(7)

Proof is not required of the signature or official position of a
person certifying the truth of a copy or extract, or giving a
certificate under this section, and a facsimile signature purporting
to be the signature of a person required to sign or certify a record
under this Act is evidence of the signature and of the authority for
the use of the facsimile signature.




(8)

A certificate or other record referred to in subsection (4), (5) or
(6) must be received in all courts for the purposes of those
subsections without proof that the certificate or other record was
kept or provided with lawful authority.




(9)

This section is in addition to and not in substitution for any
provision of this or any other enactment respecting the retention,
certification or use of records by the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia, the director or the superintendent including,
without limitation, any provision that




(a)

allows the corporation, director or superintendent, as the case may
be, to retain records in any format,




(b)

allows for certification of records by the corporation, director or
superintendent, as the case may be, in any manner, or




(c)

allows any record to stand as evidence of any fact or matter.




(10)

The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia is responsible for
keeping, and has ownership, custody and control of, the records that
are prescribed for the purpose of this subsection by the Lieutenant
Governor in Council and of other records pertinent to the
corporation's powers, duties and functions under this Act or any other
enactment.




(10.1)

The director is responsible for keeping, and has custody and control
of, the records that are prescribed for the purpose of this subsection
by the Lieutenant Governor in Council and other records pertinent to
the director's powers, duties and functions under this Act or any
other enactment.




(11)

The superintendent is responsible for keeping, and has custody and
control of, the records that are prescribed for the purpose of this
subsection by the Lieutenant Governor in Council and other records
pertinent to the superintendent's powers, duties and functions under
this Act or any other enactment.






Electronic records




82.1

(1)


A record or an extract of a record, that




(a)

is kept in electronic format by the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia,




(b)

is necessary for law enforcement or prosecution purposes




(i)

respecting an offence




(A)

by an owner of a motor vehicle under section 83.1 (2), or




(B)

by another person under a provision referred to in section 83.1 (2) if
evidence of the offence was gathered through the use of a speed
monitoring device prescribed for the purpose of that section, or




(ii)

respecting an offence




(A)

by an owner of a motor vehicle under section 83.1 (2.1), or




(B)

by another person under a provision referred to in section 83.1 (2.1)
if evidence of the offence was gathered through the use of a traffic
light safety device prescribed for the purpose of that section,




(c)

is reproduced in electronic format or paper format, or on a record
that enables the information to be subsequently displayed or
immediately accessible in visible form, and




(d)

contains a statement to the effect that the record or extract is an
authentic reproduction of information stored in a database in
electronic format by the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia,


is evidence of the record and of the facts stated in the record and is
conclusive proof that the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia is
the keeper of the record, in fulfillment of the corporation's
responsibility under section 82 (10).




(2)

A certificate of the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia,
containing a statement based on the records kept by the corporation,
that




(a)

is kept in electronic format by the corporation,




(b)

is necessary for law enforcement or prosecution purposes




(i)

respecting an offence




(A)

by an owner of a motor vehicle under section 83.1 (2), or




(B)

by another person under a provision referred to in section 83.1 (2) if
evidence of the offence was gathered through the use of a speed
monitoring device prescribed for the purpose of that section, or




(ii)

respecting an offence




(A)

by an owner of a motor vehicle under section 83.1 (2.1), or




(B)

by another person under a provision referred to in section 83.1 (2.1)
if evidence of the offence was gathered through the use of a traffic
light safety device prescribed for the purpose of that section,




(c)

is reproduced in electronic format or paper format, or on a record
that enables the information to be subsequently displayed or
immediately accessible in visible form, and




(d)

contains a statement that it is an authentic reproduction of all the
information on a certificate stored in a database in electronic format
by the corporation,


is, without proof of the signature, if any, or official position of
the person giving the certificate, evidence of the facts stated in the
certificate.




(3)

A record, providing a statement of information based on the records
kept by the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia, that




(a)

is necessary for law enforcement or prosecution purposes




(i)

respecting an offence




(A)

by an owner of a motor vehicle under section 83.1 (2), or




(B)

by another person under a provision referred to in section 83.1 (2) if
evidence of the offence was gathered through the use of a speed
monitoring device prescribed for the purpose of that section, or




(ii)

respecting an offence




(A)

by an owner of a motor vehicle under section 83.1 (2.1), or




(B)

by another person under a provision referred to in section 83.1 (2.1)
if evidence of the offence was gathered through the use of a traffic
light safety device prescribed for the purpose of that section, and




(b)

contains a statement that it is an authentic reproduction of
information stored in a database in electronic format by the
corporation,


is evidence of the facts stated in the record.




(4)

A record or extract of a record, or a certificate, referred to in
subsection (1), (2) or (3) must be received in all courts for the
purposes of those subsections without proof that the record, extract
or certificate was kept or provided with lawful authority.




(5)

Nothing in this section limits the application of section 82.






eCertificates of service





82.2


(
1
)



For the purposes of this Act, an eCertificate of service is a type
of certificate of service created as an electronic record to be used
to prove personal service of one of the following notices:






(
a
)


a notice of licence suspension;





(
b
)


a notice of driving prohibition.





(
2
)



An eCertificate of service includes a printout or display that is
produced from the electronic record of the certificate.






(
3
)



A printout or display of the electronic record of an eCertificate of
service containing a statement that it is an authentic printout or
display produced from the electronic record is conclusive proof of
that fact.







Liability of owner for contravention of Act




83

(1)


In this section:



"Nisg̱a'a traffic laws"

includes the laws of the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village enacted
under the Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement with respect to the parking of
vehicles or the use of parking meters;


"owner"
includes




(a)

a person in possession of a motor vehicle under a contract by which
the person may become the owner on full compliance with the contract,
and in whose name alone the motor vehicle is registered, and




(b)

a person who rents or leases a motor vehicle from another person;



"traffic bylaws of a municipality"

includes bylaws enacted under this or another Act by a municipality
with respect to the parking of vehicles, or the use of parking meters;



"traffic laws of a treaty first nation"

includes the laws of a treaty first nation, enacted under its final
agreement, with respect to the parking of vehicles or the use of
parking meters.




(2)

The owner of a motor vehicle must be held liable for any contravention
of




(a)

this Act or the regulations,




(b)

the

Transportation Act

or the regulations under it,




(c)

the

Firearm Act

in respect of the carrying or use of firearms in motor vehicles,




(d)

the traffic bylaws of a municipality,




(e)

the traffic laws of a treaty first nation, or




(f)

Nisg̱a'a traffic laws.




(2.1)

The owner of a motor vehicle must be held liable for the contravention
of a prescribed enactment in relation to parking.




(3)

An owner must not be held liable under subsection (2) or (2.1) if the
owner establishes that




(a)

the person who was, at the time of the contravention, in possession of
the motor vehicle was not entrusted by the owner with possession, or




(b)

the owner exercised reasonable care and diligence when the person
entrusted the motor vehicle to the person who was, at the time of the
contravention, in possession of the motor vehicle.




(4)

If an owner is liable under this section, in place of the fine or term
of imprisonment specified in an enactment for the offence, a fine of
not more than $2 000 may be imposed.




(5)

On a prosecution of the owner of a motor vehicle for an offence under
this section, the burden is on the defendant to prove that




(a)

the person in possession of the motor vehicle was not a person
entrusted by the owner with possession, or




(b)

the registered owner is not the owner.




(6)

An owner of a motor vehicle is liable under subsection (2) or (2.1)
even if the motor vehicle, at the time of the contravention, is
unattended or is not in the possession of any person.




(7)

An owner must not be held liable under subsection (2) or (2.1)




(a)

with respect to an offence under section 24 (1), 95, 102, 224 or 226,
or




(b)

with respect to any offence where the driver has been convicted of




(i)

the same offence, or




(ii)

an included offence

arising out of the same circumstances.





Liability of owner for speeding and traffic light violations




83.1

(1)


In this section:


"owner"
includes




(a)

a person in possession of a motor vehicle under a contract by which
the person may become the owner on full compliance with the contract,
and in whose name alone the motor vehicle is registered under this
Act,




(b)

a person who rents or leases a motor vehicle from another person, and




(c)

a person who holds a licence under section 38, 41, 42 or 44;



"speed monitoring device"

means a speed monitoring device prescribed under subsection (8)
that is capable of photographing or capturing the image of a motor
vehicle while accurately and simultaneously measuring and recording
its speed;



"traffic control signal"

has the same meaning as in section 119;



"traffic light safety device"

means a traffic light safety device prescribed under
subsection (8) that is capable of photographing or capturing one
or more images of a motor vehicle and of accurately and simultaneously
recording data related to the motor vehicle and a traffic control
signal.




(2)

The owner of a motor vehicle is liable for the contravention of
section 140, 146 (1), (3), (5) or (7), 147 or
148 (1) if evidence of the contravention was gathered through the use
of a prescribed speed monitoring device.




(2.1)

The owner of a motor vehicle is liable for the contravention of
section 129 (1) or (5) (a), 131 (1) (a)
or (2) (a) or 134 if evidence of the contravention was
gathered through the use of a prescribed traffic light safety device.




(3)

An owner is not liable under subsection (2) or (2.1) if the owner
establishes that




(a)

the person who was, at the time of the contravention, in possession of
the motor vehicle was not entrusted by the owner with possession, or




(b)

the owner exercised reasonable care and diligence in entrusting the
motor vehicle to the person who was, at the time of the contravention,
in possession of the motor vehicle.




(4)

If an owner is liable under this section, in place of the fine or term
of imprisonment specified in an enactment for the offence, a fine of
not more than $2 000 may be imposed.




(5)

On a prosecution of the owner of a motor vehicle for an offence under
this section, the burden is on the defendant to prove that




(a)

the person in possession of the motor vehicle was not a person
entrusted by the owner with possession, or




(b)

the registered owner is not the owner.




(6)

No owner is liable under subsection (2) or (2.1) with respect to any
offence if the driver has been convicted of




(a)

the same offence, or




(b)

an included offence

arising out of the same circumstances.



(7)

[Not in force. Repealed 2001-32-25.]




(8)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may prescribe




(a)

a speed monitoring device for the purpose of subsection (2),




(b)

a traffic light safety device for the purpose of subsection (2.1), and




(c)

a maximum period for the purpose of subsection (15).




(9)

Without limiting subsection (2), (2.1) or (8), evidence that is
gathered by a speed monitoring device under subsection (2) or by a
traffic light safety device under subsection (2.1) may be gathered by
any method that captures the image of a motor vehicle and allows the
image to be reproduced including, without limitation, by film or by
electronic means.




(10)

Data, which may be in an encoded form, may be electronically and
simultaneously recorded on the captured image under subsection (9).




(11)

Without limiting any other provision in this section, the recorded
image under subsection (10) may be converted from one format to
another, transmitted, stored or reproduced by electronic or any other
means that allows the recorded image to be reproduced in intelligible
form including, without limitation, electronically.




(12)

If the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia has stored a recorded
image in electronic format under subsection (11),




(a)

the corporation may provide the recorded image by reproducing it in
electronic format or paper format, or on a record that enables the
information to be subsequently displayed or immediately accessible in
visible form, and




(b)

the reproduction referred to in paragraph (a) has the same effect for
all purposes as if it were an original document, if the reproduction




(i)

is certified by an officer of the corporation under section 82,
or




(ii)

contains a statement that it is an authentic reproduction of a
recorded image stored in a database in electronic format by the
corporation.




(13)

For the purposes of section 83.2 (8) and subsections (11) and (12) of
this section, a recorded image may include an enlargement of the area
of the recorded image depicting the licence plate of the motor
vehicle.




(14)

Subject to subsection (15), on a prosecution of an owner for an
offence under subsection (2) for the contravention of a speed limit
provision described in subsection (16) in which the maximum rate of
speed is indicated on a sign, proof that




(a)

the sign was in place on a specified day and was in place on a later
specified day, and




(b)

the sign was not replaced or re-erected during the period between the
specified days


is proof, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, that the sign
was in place during the period between the specified days.




(15)

The presumption under subsection (14) does not operate if the period
between the specified days exceeds the prescribed maximum period.




(16)

Subsection (14) applies to the following speed limit provisions:




(a)

section 146 (3), (5) and (7);




(b)

section 148 (1) in relation to a speed limit established by a sign
referred to in section 146 (3), (5) or (7).






Certificate as evidence




83.2

(1)


In this section,
"enforcement officer"
means an enforcement officer as defined in the

Offence Act

.




(2)

An enforcement officer may provide, by signing a completed certificate
in the prescribed form,




(a)

evidence of an offence




(i)

by an owner of a motor vehicle under section 83.1 (2), or




(ii)

by another person under a provision referred to in section 83.1 (2) if
evidence of the offence was gathered through the use of a speed
monitoring device prescribed for the purpose of that section, or




(b)

evidence of an offence




(i)

by an owner of a motor vehicle under section 83.1 (2.1), or




(ii)

by another person under a provision referred to in section 83.1 (2.1)
if evidence of the offence was gathered through the use of a traffic
light safety device prescribed for the purpose of that section.




(3)

A certificate under this section is, without proof of the signature or
the official position of the person signing the certificate, evidence
of the facts stated in the certificate.




(4)

A person against whom a certificate under this section is produced
may, with leave of the court, require the attendance of the
enforcement officer who signed the certificate, for the purpose of
cross-examination.




(5)

An enforcement officer who signs a certificate under this section must
promptly send the certificate to the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia.




(6)

The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia must keep a record of
every certificate sent to the corporation under subsection (5).




(7)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may prescribe the form and content
of a certificate for the purposes of this section.




(7.1)

For the purpose of a certificate under this section,




(a)

the certificate may be created and completed in electronic format by
electronic or any other means that allows the certificate to be
reproduced in intelligible form including, without limitation,
electronically,




(b)

in place of signing the certificate under subsection (2), the
enforcement officer may identify themselves as the person making and
authenticating that certificate by means of an electronic reproduction
of the enforcement officer's signature that is capable of being
assigned to that certificate only by that enforcement officer,




(c)

the signature referred to in paragraph (b) may be made by electronic
or any other means that allows the signature to be reproduced in
intelligible form including, without limitation, by electronically
storing the signature by means of an electronic scanner or an
electronic signature pad,




(d)

if the certificate including the enforcement officer's signature is in
electronic format, it may be converted from electronic format to paper
format for all purposes including, without limitation, for the
purposes of subsection (5),




(e)

if the certificate including the enforcement officer's signature is in
electronic format, it may be received, transmitted, stored or sent
electronically,




(f)

if the certificate is sent to the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia in paper format for storage, the corporation may convert it
to and store it in electronic format, and




(g)

if the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia has stored the
certificate in electronic format under paragraph (e) or (f),




(i)

the corporation may provide the certificate by reproducing it in
electronic format or paper format, or on a record that enables the
information to be subsequently displayed or immediately accessible in
visible form, and




(ii)

the reproduction referred to in subparagraph (i) has the same effect
for all purposes as if it were an original document, if the
reproduction




(A)

is certified by an officer of the corporation under section 82,
or




(B)

contains a statement that it is an authentic reproduction of all the
information on a certificate stored in a database in electronic format
by the corporation.




(8)

The recorded image referred to in section 83.1 (11) may be included as
part of a certificate under subsection (2) of this section.






Duty to give information




84

(1)


If a peace officer has reason to believe that a motor vehicle has been
involved in an accident or in a contravention of




(a)

this Act, the

Commercial Transport Act

, the

Transportation Act

or a regulation under any of them,




(b)

a bylaw of a municipality,




(c)

a law of a treaty first nation, or




(d)

a law of the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village,


and so informs the owner or a person in the motor vehicle, it is the
duty of the owner or person, as the case may be, if required by the
peace officer, to give all information it is in his or her power to
give relating to the identification of the driver of the motor vehicle
at the relevant time or during the relevant period.




(2)

If the owner or other person fails to comply with subsection (1), or
gives information that he or she knows to be false or does not believe
to be true, he or she commits an offence against this Act.






Offence




85


A person who, being in possession or control of a motor vehicle,
permits it to be driven or operated by a minor who is not the holder
of a subsisting driver's licence permitting that operation commits an
offence against this Act.






Responsibility of owner or lessee in certain cases




86

(1)


In the case of a motor vehicle that is in the possession of its owner,
in an action to recover for loss or damage to persons or property
arising out of the use or operation of the motor vehicle on a highway,
a person driving or operating the motor vehicle who




(a)

is living with, and as a member of the family of, the owner, or




(b)

acquired possession of the motor vehicle with the consent, express or
implied, of the owner,


is deemed to be the agent or servant of, and employed as such by, that
owner and to be driving or operating the motor vehicle in the course
of his or her employment with that owner.




(1.1)

In the case of a motor vehicle that is in the possession of its
lessee, in an action to recover for loss or damage to persons or
property arising out of the use or operation of the motor vehicle on a
highway, a person driving or operating the motor vehicle who




(a)

is living with, and as a member of the family of, the lessee, or




(b)

acquired possession of the motor vehicle with the consent, express or
implied, of the lessee,


is deemed to be the agent or servant of, and employed as such by, that
lessee and to be driving or operating the motor vehicle in the course
of his or her employment with that lessee.




(1.2)

In the case of a motor vehicle that is in the possession of its
lessee, in an action to recover for loss or damage to persons or
property arising out of the use or operation of the motor vehicle on a
highway, a person driving or operating the motor vehicle who acquired
possession of the motor vehicle with the consent, express or implied,
of its lessor is deemed to be the agent or servant of, and employed as
such by, that lessor and to be driving or operating the motor vehicle
in the course of his or her employment with that lessor.




(1.3)

The liability under subsection (1.2) of a lessor is subject to the
applicable limit established under section 82.1 of the

Insurance (Vehicle) Act

.




(2)

Nothing in this section relieves a person deemed to be the agent or
servant of the owner or lessee and to be driving or operating the
motor vehicle in the course of his or her employment from the
liability for such loss or damage.




(3)

In this section:


"lessee"
means a person who leases or rents a motor vehicle from a lessor for
any period of time;


"lessor"
means the following:




(a)

subject to paragraph (b), a person who, under an agreement in writing
and in the ordinary course of the person's business, leases or rents a
motor vehicle to another person for any period of time;




(b)

if the lessor referred to in paragraph (a) has assigned the agreement,
the assignee;


"owner"




(a)

includes a purchaser of a motor vehicle who is in possession of the
motor vehicle under a contract of conditional sale by which title to
the motor vehicle remains in the seller, or the seller's assignee,
until the purchaser takes title on full compliance with the contract,




(b)

if a purchaser of a motor vehicle is in possession of the motor
vehicle, does not include the seller of that motor vehicle under a
contract of conditional sale described in paragraph (a) or the
assignee of that seller, and




(c)

does not include a lessee of a motor vehicle who is in possession of
the motor vehicle under an agreement in writing with the owner,
whether or not the lessee may become its owner in compliance with the
agreement.




(4)

This section, as amended by section 43 of the
Miscellaneous Statutes Amendment Act (No. 2), 2007
, applies only in relation to loss or damage sustained on or after the
date that section comes into force.






Liability of partners




87


Each member of a licensed partnership is liable to the penalties
imposed against licensees for breach of this Act.






Liability of licensees for offences of employees




88

(1)


The registered owner of a motor vehicle by means of or in respect of
which motor vehicle an offence against this Act or the regulations
with respect to the equipment or maintenance of the vehicle is
committed by his or her employee, servant, agent or worker, or by any
person entrusted by him or her with the possession of the motor
vehicle, is deemed to be a party to the offence committed, and is
personally liable to the penalties prescribed for the offence as a
principal offender.




(2)

Nothing in this section relieves the person who actually committed the
offence from liability for it.




(3)

On every prosecution of a registered owner of a motor vehicle for an
offence against this Act or regulations that has been committed by
means of or in respect of that motor vehicle, the burden of proving
that the offence was not committed by the registered owner and that
the person committing the offence was not the registered owner's
employee, servant, agent or worker, or a person entrusted by the
registered owner with the possession of the motor vehicle is on the
defendant.




Part 2 — Suspensions of Licences and Prohibitions from Driving





Deemed suspension




89

(1)


A person's driver's licence and right to apply for or obtain a
driver's licence are deemed to be suspended if the person




(a)

is prohibited from driving a motor vehicle




(i)

under this Act, the

Youth Justice Act

, the

Youth Criminal Justice Act

(Canada) or the

Criminal Code

,




(ii)

before April 1, 2003, under the

Young Offenders Act

(Canada), as it then was, or




(iii)

before April 1, 2004, under the

Young Offenders (British Columbia) Act

, as it then was,




(b)

pleads guilty to or is found guilty of an offence under an Act
referred to in paragraph (a) of this subsection, the

Commercial Transport Act

or the

Insurance (Vehicle) Act

and is prohibited from driving a motor vehicle while waiting to be
sentenced for that offence, or




(c)

as a condition of an order of judicial interim release under the

Criminal Code

, may not drive a motor vehicle.




(2)

A judge, registrar, deputy registrar or court clerk may notify the
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia if a person




(a)

is prohibited from driving a motor vehicle under the

Youth Justice Act

, the

Youth Criminal Justice Act

(Canada) or the

Criminal Code

,




(b)

pleads guilty to an offence under an Act referred to in subsection (1)
(a), the

Commercial Transport Act

or the

Insurance (Vehicle) Act

and is prohibited from driving a motor vehicle while waiting to be
sentenced for that offence, or




(c)

as a condition of an order of judicial interim release under the

Criminal Code

, may not drive a motor vehicle.






Suspension and cancellation of vehicle licences, etc.




90

(1)


If a person




(a)

has not in the current or a preceding year




(i)

[Repealed 1997-43-13.]




(ii)

obtained a motor vehicle liability policy, for a motor vehicle or
trailer owned by the person,




(iii)

[Repealed 1997-43-13.]




(b)

is indebted to the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia for any
motor vehicle indebtedness, or




(c)

is indebted to the government for a fine indebtedness,


the corporation may, without a hearing, suspend the licence and
corresponding number plates for any motor vehicle or trailer, or both,
owned by that person and any permit issued to that person.




(2)

If a suspension occurs under subsection (1) due to a person not




(a)

obtaining a motor vehicle liability policy,




(b)

[Repealed 1997-43-13.]

the suspension remains in force until,



(c)

in the circumstances set out in paragraph (a), a motor vehicle
liability policy is obtained.




(d)

[Repealed 1997-43-13.]




(3)

If a suspension occurs under subsection (1) due to a person being
indebted to the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia for any
motor vehicle indebtedness or to the government for any fine
indebtedness, the suspension remains in force until the amount of the
indebtedness has been fully paid or until arrangements satisfactory to
the corporation have been made for its payment.




(4)

For the purpose of this section, a person who pays by a cheque, bill
of exchange or order to pay, the payment of which is not made by the
savings institution on which it is drawn when it is presented for
payment whether in person or through another savings institution, is
deemed not to have paid.




(5)

For the purpose of this section, the production of a cheque, bill of
exchange or order to pay on which is marked "Under clearing rules,
this item must not be cleared again unless certified" or other words
importing that payment was not made by the savings institution, is
evidence that payment was not made.




(6)

If a motor vehicle liability policy for a motor vehicle or trailer is
suspended, cancelled or revoked, the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia must




(a)

in the case of suspension, suspend the licence and corresponding
number plates for the motor vehicle or trailer or a permit, or all of
them, until the suspension of the motor vehicle liability policy ends,
and




(b)

in the case of a cancellation or revocation, cancel the licence and
corresponding number plates for the motor vehicle or trailer or the
permit, or all of them.




(7)

If the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia considers that any
permit, consent or certificate that the corporation has the power
under this Act to issue should be cancelled or suspended, the
corporation, without a hearing, may




(a)

suspend, for a period that the corporation considers proper, or




(b)

cancel

the permit, consent or certificate.



(8) and (9)

[Repealed 1997-31-13.]




(10)

On receipt of notice of a suspension or cancellation of a licence,
permit, consent or certificate under this section or the regulations,
the person to whom the licence, permit, consent or certificate was
issued must forthwith deliver the licence, permit, consent,
certificate, windshield sticker and any corresponding number plates to
the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia.




(11)

If a person fails to comply with subsection (10), the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia may order a peace officer or any other
person the corporation considers appropriate to recover the licence,
permit, consent, certificate, windshield sticker or any corresponding
number plates.




(12)

If the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia orders a person to
recover a licence, permit, consent, certificate, windshield sticker or
number plate under subsection (11) and the corporation is charged one
or both of a fee and disbursements for that recovery, the person from
whom the licence, permit, consent, certificate, sticker or number
plate is recovered must reimburse the corporation for the fee and
disbursements so charged.






Not in force. Repealed.




90.1-90.2


[Not in force. Repealed 2006-33-1.]






12-hour suspension




90.3

(1)


In this section:



"approved drug screening equipment"

means equipment prescribed for the purposes of this section;



"approved screening device"

means a device prescribed for the purposes of this section;


"driver"
means a driver who holds a driver's licence on which a condition is
imposed under section 25 (10.1) or (10.101) and includes any such
person having the care or control of a motor vehicle on a highway or
industrial road whether or not the motor vehicle is in motion.




(2)

If, at any time or place on a highway or industrial road,




(a)

a peace officer makes a demand under the

Criminal Code

, to a driver who holds a driver's licence on which a condition is
imposed under section 25 (10.1), to provide a sample of breath for
analysis by means of an approved screening device, and




(b)

the peace officer has reasonable grounds to believe, as a result of
the analysis, that the driver has alcohol in the driver's body,


the peace officer, or another peace officer, may




(c)

serve the driver with a notice of licence suspension, and




(d)

if the driver is in possession of a driver's licence, request the
driver to surrender that licence.




(2.1)

If, at any time or place on a highway or industrial road,




(a)

a peace officer makes a demand under the

Criminal Code

, to a driver who holds a driver's licence on which a condition is
imposed under section 25 (10.101), to provide a sample of a bodily
substance for analysis by means of approved drug screening equipment,
and




(b)

the peace officer has reasonable grounds to believe, as a result of
the analysis, that the driver has a prescribed drug in the driver's
body,


the peace officer, or another peace officer, may




(c)

serve the driver with a notice of licence suspension, and




(d)

if the driver is in possession of a driver's licence, request the
driver to surrender that licence.




(3)

If a peace officer has reasonable grounds to believe that a driver
failed or refused, without a reasonable excuse, to comply with a
demand made under the

Criminal Code

to provide a sample of breath or a bodily substance for analysis by
means of an approved screening device or approved drug screening
equipment, as applicable, the peace officer, or another peace officer,
may take those actions described in subsection (2) (c) and (d) or
(2.1) (c) and (d).




(4)

If a peace officer requests a driver to surrender the driver's licence
under subsection (2) (d) or (2.1) (d), the driver must promptly
surrender the driver's licence to the peace officer.




(5)

A person's driver's licence is automatically suspended for a period of
12 hours from the time the peace officer served the driver with a
notice of licence suspension under subsection (2) (c) or (2.1) (c).




(6)

[Repealed 2004-68-8.]




(7)

A peace officer acting under subsection (2) need not hold the opinion
that the blood alcohol level of the driver exceeds 3 mg of alcohol in
100 ml of blood.





(
8
)



If a peace officer serves a notice of licence suspension under
subsection (2) (c) or (2.1) (c), the peace officer
must promptly forward to the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia






(
a
)



a certificate of service, showing that the notice of licence
suspension was personally served on the person subject to the
licence suspension, and






(
b
)



a copy of the notice of licence suspension.






(
9
)


[Repealed 2023-16-39.]




(10)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations as follows:




(a)

prescribing an approved screening device for the purposes of this
section;




(b)

prescribing approved drug screening equipment for the purposes of this
section.






Driving while suspended




90.4

(1)


A person who holds a driver's licence on which a condition has been
imposed under section 25 (10.1) or (10.101) commits an offence if the
person drives a motor vehicle on a highway or industrial road knowing
that the person's driver's licence has been suspended under section
90.3.




(2)

If a person is charged with an offence under subsection (1), the
court hearing the charge may admit into evidence a certificate of the
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia if the offence pertains to a
suspension under section 90.3, stating the information required
by subsection (3).




(3)

If a person is charged with an offence under subsection (1), the
certificate referred to in subsection (2) must state that the
suspension was in effect on the date of the alleged offence and that
the records of the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia or
superintendent, as the case may be,




(a)

show that a notice of suspension was mailed by registered mail or
certified mail to the person at the person's most recent address
recorded in the records of the corporation and that the corporation or
superintendent subsequently received a copy of a confirmation of
delivery provided by Canada Post showing a recipient's signature that,
from a comparison with the signature on the records of the
corporation, appears to be that of the person to whom the notice of
suspension was sent,




(b)

contain a document that




(i)

indicates that the person charged




(A)

has acknowledged that the person's driver's licence is suspended, or




(B)

has acknowledged that the person has received from the corporation or
the superintendent a notice of suspension, and




(ii)

is signed by a signature that, from a comparison with the signature on
the records of the corporation, appears to be that of the person whose
driver's licence was suspended or to whom the corporation or the
superintendent mailed a notice of suspension,





(
b.1
)



contain a certificate of service referred to in section
90.3 (8) (a) showing that a notice of licence suspension
under section 90.3 (2) (c) or (2.1) (c) was
personally served on the person subject to the licence suspension,
or





(c)

contain a document that indicates that the person charged has
surrendered the person's driver's licence to the corporation or the
superintendent subsequent to receiving from the corporation a notice
of suspension.




(4)

If the certificate of the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia or
the superintendent, as the case may be, is admitted into evidence, it
is proof that the defendant had knowledge of the suspension in effect
at the time of the alleged offence.




(5)

This section applies to any document contained in the records of the
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia or of the superintendent,
whether that document was signed before, on or after the date this
subsection comes into force.






Prohibition against driving if there is an unsatisfied judgment




91

(1)


If a person has failed to satisfy a final judgment rendered against
the person by a court in Canada or the United States of America within
30 days after the termination of all proceedings, including appeal, in
an action for damages resulting from




(a)

bodily injury to or the death of another person, or




(b)

damage to property in an amount exceeding $400, exclusive of court
costs,


caused by or arising out of the person's ownership, operation or use
of a motor vehicle, the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia may,
with or without a hearing, prohibit the person from driving a motor
vehicle, even though the person is or may be subject to another
prohibition from driving.




(2)

The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia must not prohibit a
person from driving a motor vehicle under subsection (1) until the
corporation has received




(a)

a certificate of the final judgment issued by the court in which the
judgment was rendered,




(b)

evidence satisfactory to the corporation of the identity of the
judgment debtor, and




(c)

evidence of failure to satisfy the judgment.




(3)

The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia may cancel a prohibition
made under this section and may reimpose a prohibition that was
cancelled.






Prohibition against driving relating to fitness or ability to drive




92


If




(a)

a person has been required under section 29 to submit to an
examination and the person




(i)

fails to appear and submit to the examination, or




(ii)

fails to pay the prescribed examination fee,




(b)

the superintendent considers that a person is unable or unfit to drive
a motor vehicle or to hold a driver's licence of a certain class,




(b.1)

a person fails to comply with a condition imposed on the person's
driver's licence under section 25.1 (2) or 25.2 (1), or




(b.2)

a person fails to attend or participate in and complete a program
referred to in section 233 to the satisfaction of the superintendent
as required by the superintendent,


then, with or without a hearing and even though the person is or may
be subject to another prohibition from driving, the superintendent may




(c)

prohibit the person from driving a motor vehicle, or




(d)

direct the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia to




(i)

cancel the person's driver's licence and to issue a different class of
driver's licence to the person, or




(ii)

cancel the person's driver's licence without issuing a different class
of driver's licence to the person.






Prohibition against driving by superintendent




93

(1)


Even though a person is or may be subject to another prohibition from
driving, if the superintendent considers it to be in the public
interest, the superintendent may, with or without a hearing, prohibit
the person from driving a motor vehicle




(a)

if the person




(i)

has failed to comply with this Act or the regulations, or




(ii)

has a driving record that in the opinion of the superintendent is
unsatisfactory,




(b)

if the person's privilege of driving a motor vehicle has been
suspended or cancelled in any jurisdiction in Canada or in the United
States of America, or




(c)

for any cause not referred to in paragraph (a) or (b) that relates to
the use or operation of motor vehicles.




(2)

In forming an opinion as to whether a person's driving record is
unsatisfactory the superintendent may consider all or any part of the
person's driving record, including but not limited to any part of the
driving record previously taken into account by a court or by the
superintendent in making any order prohibiting the person from driving
a motor vehicle.




(3)

If under this section the superintendent prohibits a person from
driving a motor vehicle on the grounds of an unsatisfactory driving
record, a prohibition so made must not be held invalid on the grounds
that the superintendent did not examine or consider other information
or evidence.






Access to driving records




93.1


Despite the

Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act

, or any other enactment, the superintendent, for the purpose of
carrying out the superintendent's powers, duties and functions under
this Act or another enactment, has access to every driver's record
kept by the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia.






Notification by superintendent of prohibition action




93.2

(1)


The superintendent must notify the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia of




(a)

the imposition, cancellation, reimposition or stay of any prohibition
under section 92, 93, 94.2, 94.6, 215.43 or 251 (4), and




(b)

the disposition of any appeal of an imposition, cancellation,
reimposition or stay referred to in paragraph (a).




(2)

On receipt of notification under subsection (1), the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia must record, on the driver's record of
the person affected, the imposition, cancellation, reimposition or
stay of the prohibition or suspension.






Appeal of prohibition against driving




94

(1)


A person who is prohibited from driving a motor vehicle under section
93 may appeal the prohibition to the Supreme Court if,




(a)

in the case of a person who has been personally served with a notice
of prohibition, the person files the appeal within 30 days after the
date of service, or




(b)

in the case of a person who has not been personally served with a
notice of prohibition,




(i)

the person provides the superintendent with a signed document, in a
form established by the superintendent, acknowledging that the person
has received a notice of prohibition, and




(ii)

the person files the appeal within 30 days after the date the person
signs the document referred to in subparagraph (i).




(2)

The appellant must, not less than one month before the hearing, serve
the superintendent, either personally or by registered mail, with a
copy of the notice of appeal and notice of the date of the hearing.




(3)

The court to which an appeal is made under subsection (1) must




(a)

dismiss the appeal, or




(b)

allow the appeal and order the superintendent to




(i)

revoke the prohibition imposed under section 93, or




(ii)

terminate the prohibition imposed under section 93 as of the date of
the order.






Notice of driving prohibition




94.1

(0.1)


In this section and in section 94.6:



"evaluating officer"

has the same meaning as in section 320.11 of the

Criminal Code

;


"operate"
, in relation to a motor vehicle, means to drive the motor vehicle or
to have care or control of the motor vehicle.




(1)

If a peace officer has reasonable grounds to believe,




(a)

by reason of an analysis of the breath or blood of a person, that the
person had, within 2 hours after ceasing to operate a motor vehicle, a
blood alcohol concentration equal to or exceeding 80 milligrams of
alcohol in 100 millilitres of blood,




(a.1)

by reason of an analysis of the blood of a person, that the person
had, within 2 hours after ceasing to operate a motor vehicle, a blood
drug concentration equal to or exceeding the blood drug concentration
for the drug that is prescribed for the purposes of this paragraph,




(a.2)

by reason of an analysis of the breath or blood, or both, of a person,
that the person had, within 2 hours after ceasing to operate a motor
vehicle, a blood alcohol concentration and a blood drug concentration
equal to or exceeding the blood alcohol concentration and the blood
drug concentration for the drug that are prescribed for instances
where alcohol and that drug are combined,




(a.3)

by reason of




(i)

an evaluation of a person conducted by an evaluating officer under
section 320.28 (2) (a) of the

Criminal Code

,




(ii)

an analysis of a bodily substance of the person under section
320.28 (4) of the

Criminal Code

, and




(iii)

the circumstances related to the person's operation of a motor
vehicle,


that the person operated the motor vehicle while the person's ability
to operate the motor vehicle was impaired to any degree by a drug or
by a combination of alcohol and a drug, or




(b)

that a person failed or refused, without a reasonable excuse, to
comply with a demand made under section 320.27 or 320.28 of the

Criminal Code

in respect of the operation of a motor vehicle,


the peace officer, or another peace officer, must,




(c)

if the person holds a valid licence or permit issued under this Act to
operate a motor vehicle,




(i)

take possession of the person's licence or permit if the person has it
in the person's possession, and




(ii)

serve on the person a notice of driving prohibition, or




(d)

if the person




(i)

holds a valid document issued in another jurisdiction that allows the
person to operate a motor vehicle, or




(ii)

does not hold a valid licence or permit to operate a motor vehicle,


serve on the person a notice of driving prohibition.




(2)

If a person referred to in subsection (1) (c) is not in possession of
the person's licence or permit issued under this Act to operate a
motor vehicle at the time the person is served with the notice of
driving prohibition, the person must promptly send the licence or
permit to the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia.




(3)

The notice of driving prohibition must be in the prescribed form and
must contain




(a)

a statement of the right to have the driving prohibition reviewed by
the superintendent under section 94.4,




(b)

instructions describing how to apply for that review, and




(c)

a statement that the person on whom the notice of driving prohibition
is served is prohibited from driving a motor vehicle for a period of
90 days from the date the driving prohibition takes effect.




(4)

A notice of driving prohibition must not be served on a person under
this section if a notice of driving prohibition is served on the
person under section 215.41.






Effect of notice of driving prohibition




94.2

(1)


If a person is served with a notice of driving prohibition under
section 94.1, the person is prohibited from driving a motor vehicle
for a period of 90 days.




(2)

In the case of a driving prohibition resulting from the circumstances
described in section 94.1 (1) (a) by reason of an analysis of the
breath of a person or the circumstances described in section
94.1 (1) (b), the driving prohibition




(a)

takes effect immediately on service of the notice of driving
prohibition, and




(b)

unless revoked under this Act, continues in effect until the end of
the last day of the driving prohibition as calculated in accordance
with subsection (4).




(3)

In the case of a driving prohibition resulting from the circumstances
described in section 94.1 (1) (a) by reason of an analysis of the
blood of a person or the circumstances described in section 94.1 (1)
(a.1), (a.2) or (a.3),




(a)

if the person is served with the notice of driving prohibition under
section 94.1 (1) (c),




(i)

subject to subsection (6), the notice acts as a temporary driver's
licence that expires 7 days after the date it is served, and




(ii)

the driving prohibition takes effect on the expiration of the
temporary driver's licence referred to in subparagraph (i), or




(b)

if the person is served with the notice of driving prohibition under
section 94.1 (1) (d), the driving prohibition takes effect 7 days
after the date the notice is served.




(4)

Despite subsection (2) (a), the last day of a driving prohibition
referred to in subsection (2) must be calculated so that the 90-day
period of the driving prohibition is in addition to the day on which
the notice of driving prohibition under section 94.1 is served.




(5)

A driving prohibition referred to in subsection (2) or (3) takes
effect in accordance with those subsections, as applicable, despite
the fact that the person is or may be subject to another driving
prohibition at the time the driving prohibition takes effect.




(6)

If a person is subject to another driving prohibition at the time the
person is served with a notice of driving prohibition under section
94.1, the temporary driver's licence referred to in subsection (3) (a)
(i) of this section is valid only on expiry of the other driving
prohibition.




(7)

The temporary driver's licence referred to in subsection (3) (a) (i)




(a)

is of the same class, and




(b)

is subject to all of the same restrictions and conditions


as the licence or permit taken by the peace officer or sent to the
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia under section 94.1.






Duties of peace officer




94.3


If a peace officer serves a notice of driving prohibition on a person
under section 94.1,




(a)

the peace officer must promptly forward to the superintendent




(i)

the person's licence or permit to operate a motor vehicle, if the
peace officer took the licence or permit into possession,




(ii)

a copy of the notice of driving prohibition, and




(iii)

a certificate of service, in the form established by the
superintendent, showing that the notice of driving prohibition was
personally served on the person subject to the driving prohibition,
and




(b)

the peace officer, or another peace officer, must promptly forward to
the superintendent




(i)

a report, in the form established by the superintendent, sworn or
solemnly affirmed by the peace officer whose opinion resulted in the
notice of driving prohibition being served on the person,




(ii)

a copy of any certificate of analysis under Part VIII.1 of the

Criminal Code

with respect to the person, and




(iii)

any prescribed documents or information.






Review of driving prohibition




94.4

(1)


A person may, within 7 days of being served with a notice of driving
prohibition under section 94.1, apply to the superintendent for a
review of the driving prohibition by




(a)

filing an application for review with the superintendent,




(b)

paying to the superintendent the prescribed hearing fee, and




(c)

if it has not been taken by the peace officer or sent to the
superintendent under section 94.1, surrendering to the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia the person's licence or permit to
operate a motor vehicle unless the person completes and files with the
superintendent a statutory declaration stating that the licence or
permit has been lost, stolen or destroyed.




(2)

An application for review must be in the form, contain the information
and be completed in the manner required by the superintendent.




(3)

An applicant may attach to the application for review any sworn
statements or other evidence that the applicant wishes the
superintendent to consider.




(4)

The filing of an application for review does not stay the driving
prohibition.




(5)

The superintendent is not required to hold an oral hearing unless the
applicant




(a)

requests an oral hearing at the time of filing the application for
review, and




(b)

pays the prescribed oral hearing fees.




(6)

If a person requests an oral hearing and fails to appear on the date
and at the time and place arranged for the hearing, without prior
notice to the superintendent, the right to an oral hearing is deemed
to have been waived by the person.




(7)

Despite sections 94.5 and 94.6, if




(a)

a person applies for a review of a driving prohibition under
subsection (1) of this section in accordance with subsection (2), and




(b)

by the end of the period of time specified in subsection (1), the
superintendent has not received the sworn or solemnly affirmed report
required to be forwarded under section 94.3 (b) (i),

the superintendent must



(c)

revoke the driving prohibition,




(d)

direct the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia to return any
licence or permit to operate a motor vehicle taken into possession by
the peace officer or sent to the corporation,




(e)

direct that the application and hearing fees paid be refunded to the
applicant, and




(f)

give the person notice of the matters referred to in paragraphs (b) to
(e).






Considerations




94.5

(1)


In a review of a driving prohibition under section 94.4, the
superintendent must consider




(a)

any relevant statements and evidence submitted to the superintendent,




(b)

the report of the peace officer forwarded under section 94.3 (b) (i),




(b.1)

any documents or information forwarded under section 94.3 (b) (iii),




(c)

a copy of any certificate of analysis under Part VIII.1 of the

Criminal Code

with respect to the person served with the notice of driving
prohibition,




(c.1)

any other relevant documents and information forwarded to the
superintendent, including peace officers' reports that have not been
sworn or solemnly affirmed and the copy of the notice of prohibition,
and




(d)

if an oral hearing is held, in addition to the matters referred to in
paragraphs (a) to (c.1), any relevant evidence given or
representations made at the hearing.




(2)

The superintendent may consider a copy of the certificate referred to
in subsection (1) (c) without proof




(a)

of the identity and official character of the person appearing to have
signed the certificate, or




(b)

that the copy is a true copy.




(2.1)

Despite subsection (1) but subject to section 94.4 (7), the
superintendent may, in the superintendent's discretion, proceed with a
hearing and render a decision whether or not the superintendent has
received all those documents required to be forwarded to the
superintendent under section 94.3.




(2.2)

The superintendent may determine the weight to be given to any
document or other information referred to in subsection (1), including
any document or information that is not sworn or solemnly affirmed.




(3)

In a review of a driving prohibition under section 94.4, no person may
be cross examined.




(4)

In a review of a driving prohibition under section 94.4, the
superintendent may, on the superintendent's own initiative, consider
any statements, evidence, technical materials and other records and
information, that, in the opinion of the superintendent, may assist
the superintendent in making a decision.




(5)

In subsection (4),
"technical materials"
means technical, medical or scientific evidence or information and
includes




(a)

manuals and training materials,




(b)

summaries of technical, medical or scientific evidence or information
that are prepared by the superintendent, and




(c)

documents that are prescribed or in a prescribed class of documents.






Decision of the superintendent




94.6

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), if, after considering an application for
review under section 94.4, the superintendent is satisfied that the
person operated a motor vehicle and is satisfied that,




(a)

in respect of a driving prohibition resulting from the circumstances
described in section 94.1 (1) (a), the person had, within 2 hours
after ceasing to operate the motor vehicle, a blood alcohol
concentration equal to or exceeding 80 milligrams of alcohol in 100
millilitres of blood,




(a.1)

in respect of a driving prohibition resulting from the circumstances
described in section 94.1 (1) (a.1), the person had, within 2 hours
after ceasing to operate the motor vehicle, a blood drug concentration
equal to or exceeding the blood drug concentration for the drug that
is prescribed for the purposes of this paragraph,




(a.2)

in respect of a driving prohibition resulting from the circumstances
described in section 94.1 (1) (a.2), the person had, within 2 hours
after ceasing to operate the motor vehicle, a blood alcohol
concentration and a blood drug concentration equal to or exceeding the
blood alcohol concentration and the blood drug concentration for the
drug that are prescribed for instances where alcohol and that drug are
combined,




(a.3)

in respect of a driving prohibition resulting from the circumstances
described in section 94.1 (1) (a.3),




(i)

the evaluation of the person was conducted by an evaluating officer,




(ii)

the evaluating officer complied with the requirements that are
prescribed for the purposes of this subparagraph, and




(iii)

the analysis of the person's bodily substance confirmed the presence
in the person's body of one or more of the types of drugs identified
by the evaluating officer as impairing the person's ability to operate
a motor vehicle, or




(b)

the person failed or refused, without a reasonable excuse, to comply
with a demand made under section 320.27 or 320.28 of the

Criminal Code

in respect of the operation of the motor vehicle


the superintendent must confirm the driving prohibition.




(2)

If after considering an application for review under
section 94.4, the superintendent is satisfied that the
person did not operate a motor vehicle or is satisfied that,




(a)

in respect of a driving prohibition resulting from the circumstances
described in section 94.1 (1) (a),




(i)

the person did not have, within 2 hours after ceasing to operate the
motor vehicle, a blood alcohol concentration equal to or exceeding 80
milligrams of alcohol in 100 millilitres of blood, or




(ii)

all of the following apply:




(A)

the person consumed alcohol after ceasing to operate the motor
vehicle;




(B)

after ceasing to operate the motor vehicle, the person had no
reasonable expectation that the person would be required to provide a
sample of breath or blood;




(C)

the person's alcohol consumption was consistent with the person's
blood alcohol concentration as determined by the analysis of the
breath or blood of the person and with the person having had, at the
time when the person was operating the motor vehicle, a blood alcohol
concentration that was less than 80 milligrams of alcohol in 100
millilitres of blood,




(a.1)

in respect of a driving prohibition resulting from the circumstances
described in section 94.1 (1) (a.1),




(i)

the person did not have, within 2 hours after ceasing to operate the
motor vehicle, a blood drug concentration equal to or exceeding the
blood drug concentration for the drug that is prescribed for the
purposes of this subparagraph, or




(ii)

both of the following apply:




(A)

the person consumed the drug after ceasing to operate the motor
vehicle;




(B)

after ceasing to operate the motor vehicle, the person had no
reasonable expectation that the person would be required to provide a
sample of blood,




(a.2)

in respect of a driving prohibition resulting from the circumstances
described in section 94.1 (1) (a.2),




(i)

the person did not have, within 2 hours after ceasing to operate the
motor vehicle, a blood alcohol concentration and a blood drug
concentration equal to or exceeding the blood alcohol concentration
and the blood drug concentration for the drug that are prescribed for
instances where alcohol and that drug are combined, or




(ii)

all of the following apply:




(A)

the person consumed alcohol or the drug or both after ceasing to
operate the motor vehicle;




(B)

after ceasing to operate the motor vehicle, the person had no
reasonable expectation that the person would be required to provide a
sample of breath or blood;




(C)

the person's alcohol consumption was consistent with the person's
blood alcohol concentration as determined by the analysis of the
person's breath or blood and with the person having had, at the time
when the person was operating the motor vehicle, a blood alcohol
concentration that was less than the blood alcohol concentration that
is prescribed for the purposes of this clause,




(a.3)

in respect of a driving prohibition resulting from the circumstances
described in section 94.1 (1) (a.3),




(i)

the evaluation of the person was not conducted by an evaluating
officer,




(ii)

the evaluating officer did not comply with the requirements that are
prescribed for the purposes of this subparagraph,




(iii)

the analysis of the person's bodily substance did not confirm the
presence in the person's body of one or more of the types of drugs
identified by the evaluating officer as impairing the person's ability
to operate a motor vehicle,




(iv)

both of the following apply:




(A)

the person's ability to operate a motor vehicle was not impaired to
any degree by a drug or by a combination of alcohol and a drug at the
time the evaluation of the person was conducted;




(B)

the results of the evaluation of the person were due to the person's
medical condition, or




(v)

both of the following apply:




(A)

the person consumed one or more of the types of drugs identified by
the evaluating officer as impairing the person's ability to operate a
motor vehicle after ceasing to operate the motor vehicle;




(B)

after ceasing to operate the motor vehicle, the person had no
reasonable expectation that the person would be required to provide a
sample of a bodily substance, or




(b)

the person




(i)

did not fail or refuse to comply with a demand made under section
320.27 or 320.28 of the

Criminal Code

in respect of the operation of the motor vehicle, or




(ii)

had a reasonable excuse for failing or refusing to comply with the
demand referred to in subparagraph (i),

the superintendent must



(c)

revoke the driving prohibition,




(d)

direct the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia to return any
licence or permit to operate a motor vehicle taken into possession by
the peace officer or sent to the corporation, and




(e)

direct that the application and hearing fees paid be refunded to the
applicant.




(3)

Subject to subsection (4), the decision of the superintendent, and the
reasons for the decision, must be in writing and a copy must be sent
to the applicant within 21 days of the date the notice of driving
prohibition was served on the applicant under section 94.1.




(4)

If the superintendent is unable to send the decision to the applicant
within the 21 day period set out in subsection (3), the superintendent
may extend that period for a period determined by the superintendent.




(5)

If the superintendent extends the period for sending a decision to the
applicant under subsection (4), the superintendent may




(a)

stay the driving prohibition imposed on the applicant under
section 94.2 for the period of the extension determined under
subsection (4), and




(b)

if the applicant held a valid licence or permit issued under this Act
to operate a motor vehicle at the time the applicant was served with
the notice of driving prohibition under section 94.1, direct the
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia to issue to the applicant a
temporary driver's licence that




(i)

is valid on the expiration of the temporary driver's licence referred
to in section 94.2 (3) (a) (i), and




(ii)

expires with the period of extension determined under subsection (4).




(6)

The temporary driver's licence issued under subsection (5) (b)




(a)

is of the same class, and




(b)

is subject to all of the same restrictions and conditions


as the licence or permit taken by the peace officer or sent to the
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia under section 94.1.




(7)

The superintendent must promptly give the applicant notice of an
extension made under subsection (4).




(8)

The copy referred to in subsection (3) and the notice referred to in
subsection (7) must be sent to the applicant




(a)

at the last known address of the applicant as shown in the records
maintained by the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia, or




(b)

at the address shown in the application for review, if that address is
different from the address in the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia's records.




(9)

A notice of extension given under subsection (7) is deemed to be a
notice of prohibition for the purposes of section 95 (4) (a) or (b).






Driving while prohibited




95

(1)


A person who drives a motor vehicle on a highway or industrial road
knowing that




(a)

the person is prohibited from driving a motor vehicle under
section 91, 92, 93, 94.2, 215, 215.43 or 251 (4)




(b)

[Repealed 2010-14-10.]

commits an offence and is liable,



(c)

on a first conviction, to a fine of not less than $500 and not more
than $2 000 or to imprisonment for not more than 6 months, or to
both, and




(d)

on a subsequent conviction, regardless of when the contravention
occurred, to a fine of not less than $500 and not more than
$2 000 and to imprisonment for not less than 14 days and not more
than one year.




(2)

If a person is charged with an offence under subsection (1) that
pertains to a prohibition under section 91 or 215, the court
hearing the charge may admit into evidence




(a)

a certificate of the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia, or




(b)

a certificate of the superintendent dated before the date this
paragraph comes into force


stating the information required by subsection (4) and if the
certificate is admitted into evidence it is proof that the defendant
had knowledge of the prohibition in effect at the time of the alleged
offence.




(3)

If a person is charged with an offence under subsection (1) that
pertains to a prohibition under section 92, 93, 94.2, 215.43 or
251 (4), the court hearing the charge may admit into evidence a
certificate of the superintendent stating the information required by
subsection (4), and if the certificate of the superintendent is
admitted into evidence, it is proof that the defendant had knowledge
of the prohibition in effect at the time of the alleged offence.




(4)

If a person is charged with an offence under subsection (1), the
certificate referred to in subsection (2) or (3), as the case may be,
must state that the prohibition was in effect on the date of the
alleged offence and that the records of the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia or the superintendent, as the case may be,




(a)

show that a notice of the prohibition was mailed by registered mail or
certified mail to the person at the person's most recent address
recorded in the records of the corporation and that the corporation or
superintendent subsequently received a copy of a confirmation of
delivery provided by Canada Post showing a recipient's signature that,
from a comparison with the signature on the records of the
corporation, appears to be that of the person to whom the notice of
prohibition was sent,




(b)

contain a document that




(i)

indicates that the person so charged




(A)

has acknowledged being prohibited from driving a motor vehicle,




(B)

has acknowledged having received from the corporation or the
superintendent a notice of prohibition against driving a motor
vehicle, or




(C)

has surrendered the person's driver's licence to the corporation or
the superintendent subsequent to receiving from the corporation or the
superintendent a notice of prohibition, relating to a prohibition
under section 91, 92 or 93, or a notice of suspension, and




(ii)

is signed with a signature that, from a comparison with the signature
on the records of the corporation, appears to be that of the person
whom the corporation or superintendent intended to prohibit from
driving a motor vehicle, or to whom the corporation or superintendent
mailed a notice of prohibition,





(
c
)



contain a certificate of service referred to in section
94.3 (a) (iii), 215 (10) (a), 215.47 (c)
or 251 (3) (b) showing that a notice of driving
prohibition under section 94.1 (1), 215 (2) (b)
or (3) (b), 215.41 or 251 (1) (h), as
applicable, was personally served on the person subject to the
driving prohibition, or






(
d
)



contain a certificate of service showing that notice of a driving
prohibition under section 93 was personally served on the
person subject to the driving prohibition.





(5)

This section applies to any document contained in the records of the
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia or the superintendent,
whether that document was signed before, on or after the date this
subsection comes into force.






Driver to surrender licence




96

(1)


If a person is prohibited from driving a motor vehicle under
section 91, 92 or 93, the person must,




(a)

if notified of the prohibition by mail, immediately send the person's
driver's licence, or any document issued in another jurisdiction that
allows the person to drive a motor vehicle, to the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia, and




(b)

if notified by personal service by a peace officer, sheriff or person
authorized by the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia or the
superintendent, surrender the person's driver's licence, or any
document issued in another jurisdiction that allows the person to
drive a motor vehicle, to the serving peace officer, sheriff or person
for forwarding to the corporation.




(2)

A person must immediately surrender the person's driver's licence, or
any document issued in another jurisdiction that allows the person to
drive a motor vehicle, to the justice, court clerk or sheriff for
forwarding to the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia if the
person is prohibited from driving a motor vehicle




(a)

under section 98, 99 or 100 of this Act, the

Youth Justice Act

, the

Youth Criminal Justice Act

(Canada) or the

Criminal Code

,




(b)

before April 1, 2003, under the

Young Offenders Act

(Canada), as it then was, or




(c)

before April 1, 2004, under the

Young Offenders (British Columbia) Act

, as it then was.




(3)

If a person fails to comply with subsection (2), a peace officer or
sheriff, at the request of the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia, may recover the driver's licence issued to that person under
this Act or any document issued in another jurisdiction that allows
the person to drive a motor vehicle.




(4)

If a peace officer serves on a person, who is in control of a motor
vehicle on a highway or industrial road, a document containing notice
that the person is prohibited from driving a motor vehicle, the notice
acts as a temporary driver's licence to expire at the time noted on
its face, and the prohibition from driving starts immediately on the
expiration of the temporary driver's licence.




(5)

A temporary driver's licence issued under subsection (4) is subject to
all restrictions and conditions of the driver's licence of the person
who is prohibited from driving a motor vehicle.




(6)

Subsection (4) does not apply if the peace officer serves a person who
is already prohibited from driving a motor vehicle or if the person's
driver's licence or right to apply for or obtain a driver's licence is
already under suspension.






Notice of prohibition




97

(1)


A prohibition under section 91 is not invalid and must not be held to
be invalid on the grounds that the notice of prohibition sent to the
person being prohibited from driving under that section is not signed
by an officer of the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia.




(2)

A prohibition under section 92 or 93 is not invalid and must not be
held to be invalid on the grounds that the notice of prohibition sent
to the person being prohibited from driving under either of those
sections is not signed by the superintendent or deputy superintendent.






Driver's licence forwarded to the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia




97.1

(1)


If a person surrenders the person's driver's licence to the
superintendent or a person authorized by the superintendent, the
superintendent is to forward that driver's licence to the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia.




(2)

A person who surrenders the person's driver's licence to the
superintendent is deemed to have delivered the licence at the time of
the surrender to the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia.




(3)

The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia is to notify the
superintendent if a person surrenders the person's driver's licence to
the corporation.




(4)

If a person makes a statutory declaration to the superintendent or a
person authorized by the superintendent that the person's driver's
licence has been stolen, lost or destroyed, the superintendent is to
forward the statutory declaration to the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia.




(5)

On receipt of a driver's licence forwarded under section 94.3 or
215.47 to the superintendent by a peace officer, the superintendent
must forward the driver's licence to the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia.






Amount payable to reinstate driver's licence




97.2


If, under this Act, the

Criminal Code

, the
Youth Justice Act
(Canada) or the

Youth Criminal Justice Act

(Canada),




(a)

a person is or was prohibited from driving a motor vehicle,




(b)

a person's driver's licence is or was suspended, or




(c)

a person's right to apply for or obtain a driver's licence is or was
suspended,


except in the case of a licence suspension under section 90.3 or a
prohibition under section 215, the amount payable to reinstate a
driver's licence following the prohibition or suspension, in addition
to any other fee prescribed, is $250.






Court prohibition against driving




98

(1)


For the purpose of this section,
"convicts"
includes the granting of an absolute or conditional discharge and the
determination under section 123 (2) of the
Motor Vehicle Act
, R.S.B.C. 1979, c. 288, that a contravention took place.




(2)

If a court convicts a person of




(a)

an offence under this Act, or




(b)

[Repealed 2007-14-156.]




(c)

a motor vehicle related

Criminal Code

offence,

the court may



(d)

consider the person's driving record, and




(e)

even though the person is or may be subject to another prohibition
from driving, prohibit the person from driving a motor vehicle for a
definite period of time if the court considers that the facts of the
case or the person's driving record or both the facts of the case and
the person's driving record when taken together justify the
prohibition.




(3)

Subsection (2) does not apply if the defendant is convicted of an
offence under section 83 or 83.1.




(4)

If a court prohibits a person from driving a motor vehicle under this
section, the court must order that the prohibition




(a)

take effect immediately,




(b)

continue for the full day of each day of the prohibition, and




(c)

continue for consecutive days.




(5)

A person, who is prohibited from driving a motor vehicle under this
section for a period of more than 3 years, may make an
application to the court that prohibited the person from driving for a
review of the length of the prohibition, after 3 years of the
prohibition have elapsed.




(6)

On an application under subsection (5), the court may, if it considers
that it is not contrary to public interest, reduce the length of the
prohibition or cancel the prohibition.




(7)

If the court reduces the length of a prohibition or cancels a
prohibition under subsection (6), it must forthwith notify the
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia of its decision.






Automatic prohibition against driving on conviction




99

(1)


For the purpose of this section,
"convicted"
includes the granting of an absolute or conditional discharge.




(2)

A person who is convicted of




(a)

an offence under section 95, 102, 224 or 226 (1), or




(b)

a motor vehicle related

Criminal Code

offence


is automatically and without notice prohibited from driving a motor
vehicle for 12 months from the date of sentencing, the date that
the passing of sentence is suspended, the date of being granted an
absolute or conditional discharge or the date a court imposes a
sentence under the

Youth Criminal Justice Act

(Canada) or the

Youth Justice Act

.






Prohibition against driving for failing to stop




100

(1)


A driver of a motor vehicle commits an offence if




(a)

the driver




(i)

is signalled or requested to stop by a peace officer who is readily
identifiable as a peace officer, and




(ii)

fails to come to a safe stop, and




(b)

a peace officer pursues the driver in order to require the driver to
stop.




(2)

If a person commits an offence under subsection (1), the person is
liable to a fine of not less than $300 and not more than $2 000 or to
imprisonment for not less than 7 days and not more than 6 months, or
to both.




(3)

If a person is convicted of an offence under subsection (1), the court
must, even though the person is or may be subject to another
prohibition from driving under this Act, prohibit the person from
driving a motor vehicle for a period of 2 years from the date of
sentencing if the person is also convicted of contravening any of the
following provisions of the

Criminal Code

with respect to the same incident:




(a)

section 220;




(b)

section 221;




(c)

section 236;




(d)

section 249 (1) (a), (3) or (4);




(e)

section 320.13 (1), (2) or (3).




(4)

Section 98 (4) applies to a prohibition ordered under this section.




(5)

If a person is charged with an offence under subsection (1) and the
evidence does not prove the offence but does prove a contravention of
section 73 (1), the person may be convicted of contravening section 73
(1).






Stay of prohibition against driving




101

(1)


In this section:



"appellate court"

means a court to which a person who is prohibited from driving appeals
a conviction;


"conviction"
means a conviction under which a prohibition has been imposed, and
includes the granting of an absolute or conditional discharge and the
determination under section 123 (2) of the
Motor Vehicle Act
, R.S.B.C. 1979, c. 288, that a contravention took place;


"licence"
means a licence authorizing a person to drive, and includes a document
issued in another jurisdiction authorizing a person to drive;



"prohibition"

means a prohibition on a person from driving a motor vehicle, imposed




(a)

under section 98, 99 or 100 of this Act,




(b)

under the

Youth Justice Act

, or




(c)

before April 1, 2004, under the

Young Offenders (British Columbia) Act

, as it then was,


and

"prohibited from driving"

has a corresponding meaning;


"stay"
means a stay of a prohibition, granted under subsection (2).




(2)

A judge of the appellate court may stay a prohibition for a period the
judge considers appropriate if a person




(a)

appeals a conviction, and




(b)

applies to a judge of the appellate court for an order to stay the
prohibition imposed pursuant to the conviction.




(3)

An application for a stay must not be heard unless written notice has
been served on the Attorney General not less than 2 days before the
day the application is heard.




(4)

The Attorney General may appear as respondent on an application for a
stay.




(5)

On application of




(a)

the person who applied for a stay, or




(b)

a respondent to vary a stay,


a judge of the appellate court may, in the judge's discretion, vary
the period of the stay, extend the stay or, where a stay has expired,
grant a new stay.




(6)

If a judge of the appellate court orders a stay in respect of a
person, the clerk of that court must




(a)

return that person's licence, and




(b)

send a copy of the order to the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia.




(7)

On receiving a copy of an order referred to in subsection (6), the
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia must return the licence to
the person to whom it was issued.




(8)

A prohibition is automatically and without notice reimposed on the day




(a)

a stay expires, or




(b)

an appeal from the conviction in respect of which a person is
prohibited from driving is dismissed.




(9)

If a prohibition is reimposed by subsection (8), the number of days
during which the prohibition was stayed must be added to the original
period of the prohibition, and the prohibition continues for that
additional number of days, but




(a)

a further stay may be ordered under subsection (2), and




(b)

if an appeal from the conviction in respect of which the prohibition
from driving was imposed is allowed, the prohibition ends.




(10)

If a prohibition is reimposed by subsection (8) (a), the person must
forthwith cause the person's licence to be sent to the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia.




(11)

If a prohibition is reimposed by subsection (8) (b),




(a)

the person must cause the person's licence to be surrendered to the
court as soon as practicable after the dismissal, and the prohibition
has effect from the date of reimposition whether or not the licence
has been surrendered, and




(b)

the court must forthwith cause




(i)

the surrendered licence to be sent to the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia, and




(ii)

the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia to be notified of the
dismissal.




(12)

If an appeal from a conviction is allowed, the court must forthwith
cause the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia to be notified.






Driving while prohibited by court order or operation of law




102


A person who drives a motor vehicle on a highway or industrial road
while




(a)

the person is prohibited from driving a motor vehicle




(i)

under section 98, 99 or 100 of this Act,




(ii)

under the

Youth Justice Act

, or




(iii)

before April 1, 2004, under the

Young Offenders (British Columbia) Act

, as it then was, or




(b)

the person's driver's licence or the person's right to apply for or
obtain a driver's licence is suspended under section 82
or 92 of the
Motor Vehicle Act
, R.S.B.C. 1979, c. 288, as the section was before its repeal and
replacement came into force under the
Motor Vehicle Amendment Act, 1982,


commits an offence and is liable,




(c)

on a first conviction, to a fine of not less than $500 and not more
than $2 000 or to imprisonment for not more than 6 months, or to
both, and




(d)

on a subsequent conviction, regardless of when the contravention
occurred, to a fine of not less than $300 and not more than
$2 000 and to imprisonment for not less than 14 days and not
more than one year.






Deemed prior convictions




103


If a person who is convicted of an offence under section 95 or
102 has previously been convicted of an offence under




(a)

section 95 or 102, or




(b)

section 88.1 or 94.1 of the
Motor Vehicle Act
, R.S.B.C. 1979, c. 288, as the section was before its repeal and
replacement came into force under the
Motor Vehicle Amendment Act, 1982,


that prior conviction is conclusively deemed to be a first conviction
for the purpose of determining the punishment to which the person is
subject under section 95 or 102.






Reporting conviction or judgment




104

(1)


A judge of any court, with respect to each conviction made by the
judge for, or each conditional or absolute discharge given by the
judge in respect of,




(a)

an offence under this Act,




(b)

an offence under the

Commercial Transport Act

,




(c)

an offence under the

Insurance (Vehicle) Act

, or




(d)

a motor vehicle related

Criminal Code

offence,


and every registrar, deputy registrar or court clerk must immediately
send the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia a certificate,
transcript, copy or record of the conviction.




(2)

Every registrar, deputy registrar or court clerk, with respect to each
order or judgment of the court in an action for damages resulting from
bodily injury to or the death of a person or from damage to property
occasioned by or arising out of the ownership, maintenance, operation
or use of a motor vehicle, must immediately send the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia a certificate, transcript or certified
copy of the order or judgment.




(3)

A certificate, transcript, copy or record sent to the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia under subsection (1) is evidence of
the conviction, appeal or proceedings to which it refers.




(4)

If a person




(a)

is convicted of an offence or given an absolute or conditional
discharge, and




(b)

is a resident of or has a document from another jurisdiction that
allows the person to drive a motor vehicle,


the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia must send a certificate,
transcript of or certified copy of the person's conviction to the
person in charge of the registration of motor vehicles or licensing of
drivers in the jurisdiction in which the person resides or from which
the person has a document that allows the person to drive a motor
vehicle, as the case may be.




(5)

If the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia has received notice
that a person




(a)

is or was prohibited from driving a motor vehicle, or the person's
right to apply for or obtain a driver's licence is or was suspended,




(i)

under this Act, the

Youth Justice Act

, the

Youth Criminal Justice Act

(Canada) or the

Criminal Code

,




(ii)

before April 1, 2003, under the

Young Offenders Act

(Canada), as it then was, or




(iii)

before April 1, 2004, under the

Young Offenders (British Columbia) Act

, as it then was, and




(b)

is a resident of or has a document from another jurisdiction that
allows the person to drive a motor vehicle,

the corporation must send



(c)

a notice of the prohibition or suspension containing a brief statement
of the reasons for it, and




(d)

the document that allows the person to drive a motor vehicle, if it is
in the corporation's possession,


to the person in charge of the registration of motor vehicles or
licensing of drivers in the jurisdiction in which the person resides
or from which the person has a document that allows the person to
drive a motor vehicle, as the case may be.






Repealed





104.1-

105.95



[Repealed 2010-14-14.]






Proof of financial responsibility




106

(1)


If proof of financial responsibility is required to be given, it must
be given by a certificate under the

Insurance (Vehicle) Act

.




(2)

A person who is not a resident of British Columbia, or is the owner or
operator of an extraprovincial undertaking in respect of that
undertaking, may for the purposes of this part give proof of financial
responsibility




(a)

as provided in subsection (1), or,




(b)

subject to subsection (8), by filing a certificate in a form approved
by the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia, issued by an insurer
authorized to transact vehicle insurance in another province, state,
territory, district or country.




(3)

For the purposes of subsection (2),
"extraprovincial undertaking"
means a work or undertaking for the transport of passengers or goods
by motor vehicle or trailer, connecting British Columbia with another
or others of the provinces of Canada, or extending beyond the limits
of British Columbia.




(4)

An insurer who has issued vehicle insurance that provides third party
liability insurance coverage to a person entitled under subsection (2)
to give proof of financial responsibility must, at the request of the
insured, file with the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia a
certificate showing the particulars of the vehicle insurance.




(5)

An insurer who files a certificate under subsection (4) must notify
the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia of the cancellation of
or failure to renew the vehicle insurance for which the certificate
was issued at least 10 days before the date of cancellation or failure
to renew.




(6)

If an insurer fails to notify the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia, the vehicle insurance is deemed to remain in full force and
effect until a date 10 days after notice is received by the
corporation.




(7)

A certificate filed with the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia
under subsection (2) must be signed by a person authorized by the
insurer.




(8)

A certificate issued under paragraph (2) (b) by an insurer not
authorized to carry on in British Columbia the business of vehicle
insurance is not effective for the purpose of subsection (2) unless
the insurer has filed with the Superintendent of Financial
Institutions, in a form established by the Superintendent of Financial
Institutions,




(a)

a power of attorney authorizing the Superintendent of Financial
Institutions to accept service of notice or process for itself in any
action or proceeding against it arising out of a motor vehicle
accident in British Columbia, and




(b)

an undertaking




(i)

to appear in every action or proceeding against it or its insured
arising out of a motor vehicle accident in British Columbia, and of
which it has knowledge,




(ii)

that on receipt from the Superintendent of Financial Institutions of a
notice or process served on the insurer in respect of its insured or
of its insured and another or others, and sent by the Superintendent
of Financial Institutions to it as provided by section 108, it
will immediately cause the notice or process to be personally served
on its insured, and




(iii)

not to set up a defence to a claim, action or proceeding, under
vehicle insurance issued by it that provides third party liability
insurance coverage, that might not be set up if the vehicle insurance
had been issued in British Columbia in accordance with the law of
British Columbia relating to motor vehicle liability policies, and to
satisfy up to the limits of liability under the vehicle insurance, and
in any event to an amount not less than the limits of liability
prescribed under the

Insurance (Vehicle) Act

for a motor vehicle liability policy, any judgment rendered against it
or its insured by a court in British Columbia in the action or
proceeding.






Service of unlicensed insurer




107

(1)


If an insurer to which section 106 (2) refers is not authorized to
carry on in British Columbia the business of vehicle insurance, notice
or process in an action or proceeding in British Columbia against it
or its insured arising out of a motor vehicle accident in British
Columbia may be effectually served on the insurer or the insured, or
on both, by leaving 3 copies of the notice or process with the
Superintendent of Financial Institutions.




(2)

If the insurer is not a party to the action or proceeding, the person
who leaves with the Superintendent of Financial Institutions the
copies of the notice or process must at the same time leave with the
Superintendent of Financial Institutions a written statement, signed
by the person who issued the notice or process, and stating the full
name and address of the insurer against whose insured the action or
proceeding is taken.






Notice to insurer




108


On receipt of notice or process under section 107, the
Superintendent of Financial Institutions must immediately mail 2
copies by registered mail to the insurer at its address last known to
the Superintendent of Financial Institutions.






Implied covenant




109


In an action or proceeding against an insurer who has given to the
Superintendent of Financial Institutions an undertaking under section
106 (8) (b), the plaintiff may give evidence of the undertaking; and
the undertaking, for all purposes of the action or proceeding, is
deemed a covenant for valuable consideration made by the insurer with
the plaintiff.






Default of insurer




110

(1)


If an insurer that has filed the documents described in section 106
(2) defaults under them, certificates of the insurer must not after
that be accepted as proof of financial responsibility so long as the
default continues.




(2)

The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia must immediately notify
the Superintendent of Financial Institutions and the proper officer in
charge of the registration of motor vehicles and the licensing of
drivers in all provinces of Canada and in all states, territories or
district in the United States where the certificates of the insurer
are accepted as proof of financial responsibility of the default.






Issue of financial responsibility card




111

(1)


If the owner of a motor vehicle or trailer gives proof of financial
responsibility as provided in section 106 (1), the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia must issue and deliver to the owner
either a financial responsibility card to be carried in the vehicle at
all times, or a windshield decal or sticker of a design approved by
the corporation to be affixed to the lower part of the right hand side
of the windshield of the motor vehicle, which decal or sticker is
deemed to be a financial responsibility card and proof of financial
responsibility for all purposes.




(2)

On request of the owner referred to in subsection (1), the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia must issue and deliver to the owner an
additional financial responsibility card or windshield decal or
sticker for each motor vehicle of the owner for which proof of
financial responsibility is required and included in the owner's
certificate.




(3)

A financial responsibility card must set out




(a)

the name of the person or corporation giving the proof of financial
responsibility;




(b)

the particulars of the motor vehicle or trailer as set out in the
motor vehicle or trailer licence relative to it issued under section
3; and




(c)

all other particulars required by the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia.




(4)

A financial responsibility card must be in a form established by the
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia.






Cancellation of financial responsibility card




112


If the owner of a motor vehicle to whom the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia has issued a financial responsibility card ceases to
maintain, as required by this Act, the proof of financial
responsibility for which the card was issued, the owner must
immediately deliver to the corporation for cancellation the card and
all additional cards so issued to the owner.






Garage and sales agency policy




113

(1)


In this section,

"garage and sales agency policy"

means a policy of the type commonly known as a garage and sales agency
policy, which insures a person against liability for loss or damage to
persons or property occasioned by or arising out of the ownership,
maintenance, operation or use by the person or the person's employees
of a motor vehicle that is either owned by the person or in the
person's charge.




(2)

If a person is insured by the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia under a garage and sales agency policy, and, in the opinion
of the corporation, the amount in which the person is insured under
the policy is adequate to satisfy all such liabilities that the person
is likely to incur, subject, for each motor vehicle that at any one
time may be operated or used by the person or the person's employees,
to the limits as to amount and covering those benefits prescribed
under the

Insurance (Vehicle) Act

for a motor vehicle liability policy, the corporation must, at the
time of issue of the policy, also issue and deliver to the named
insured




(a)

a financial responsibility card to be carried in the vehicle at all
times, or




(b)

a windshield decal or sticker of a design approved by the corporation
to be affixed to the lower part of the right hand side of the
windshield of the motor vehicle.




(3)

A decal or sticker affixed to a motor vehicle as provided in
subsection (2) (b) is deemed to be a financial responsibility card and
proof of financial responsibility for all purposes.




(4)

On the request of the insured, the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia must issue and deliver to the insured an additional financial
responsibility card or windshield decal or sticker for each motor
vehicle of the insured for which proof of financial responsibility is
required and included in the certificate of insurance.




(5)

A windshield decal or sticker issued under subsection (2) must be in a
form approved by the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia.




(6)

If a person to whom a windshield decal or sticker has been issued
under subsection (2) ceases to keep in force the policy of
insurance for which the windshield decal or sticker was issued, the
person must immediately deliver to the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia for cancellation the unused decals or stickers issued
to the person.






Return of security given in proof




114

(1)


If the Minister of Finance is satisfied a person who has given
security under this Act has produced satisfactory proof that the
person has satisfied all claims arising out of the accident in respect
of which security was given, the minister must return the security to
that person.




(2)

If




(a)

one year has elapsed since the date of an accident and the driver of a
motor vehicle in any manner, directly or indirectly, involved has not
been named defendant in an action for damages as a result of the
accident, or




(b)

judgment in an action for damages resulting from the accident brought
against or instituted by the driver has been given in the driver's
favour,


the Minister of Finance, on receipt of satisfactory proof of these
facts, must return the security to the person who paid it.




(3)

If the Minister of Finance is unable to locate the person or driver to
return the security under this section, that minister must pay it into
the consolidated revenue fund.






Information to be furnished by Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia




115


The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia must, on the written
request of a person who submits evidence that the person has been
injured or the person's property damaged by a motor vehicle, furnish
the person with information as to the proof of financial
responsibility given by the registered owner of or the person driving
or operating that motor vehicle.






Certified abstract




116

(1)


The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia must, on payment of a
prescribed fee, provide a person who requests information with respect
to that person as owner, driver or otherwise with an abstract,
certified by the corporation, of the record in the corporation's
office during the 5 years preceding the request relating to that
person and setting out particulars of any conviction, order or
judgment made against that person under this Act, or referred to in
this Part, and of any motor vehicle registered in that person's name.




(2)

Subsection (1) must not be construed as requiring the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia to supply an abstract or information
to any person other than the person to whom the abstract or
information relates, and if an abstract or information is requested by
another person, the corporation may decline to supply it or may supply
such parts of it as the corporation considers desirable.






Director of Commercial Vehicle Safety and staff




116.1

(1)


A director and any employees necessary to carry out the duties and
functions of the director under this Act or any other enactment may be
appointed in accordance with the

Public Service Act

.




(2)

The director may delegate any or all of the powers, duties and
functions of the director under this Act or any other enactment to an
employee referred to in subsection (1).




(3)

The director has access to




(a)

every driver record, motor vehicle record or other record kept by the
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia under this Act, the

Commercial Transport Act

, the

Transportation Act

, the

Passenger Transportation Act

, the

Motor Fuel Tax Act

or the

Transport of Dangerous Goods Act

that the director requires for the purpose of carrying out the
director's powers, duties and functions under this Act or any other
enactment, and




(b)

prescribed records kept by the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia that the director requires to compile information and
profiles for the purposes of a regulation enacted under
section 212.






Superintendent may delegate




117

(1)


The superintendent may delegate any or all of the powers, duties and
functions of the superintendent




(a)

under this Act to persons appointed in accordance with section 118
(2), or




(b)

under this Act, except Part 2.1, to the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia.




(2)

The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia, in carrying out powers
or responsibilities delegated to it under subsection (1), must act in
accordance with any directives issued by the superintendent.




(3)

For the purposes of subsection (2), the superintendent may issue
general or specific directives.






Application of
Administrative Tribunals Act
to decisions of the superintendent




117.1


Section 57 of the

Administrative Tribunals Act

applies in respect of an application for judicial review of a decision
of the superintendent under this Act.






Appointment of superintendent and staff




118

(1)


An individual must be appointed as the Superintendent of Motor
Vehicles under subsection (2).




(2)

The superintendent, a deputy superintendent and other officers, clerks
and employees necessary to carry out the powers, duties and functions
of the superintendent are to be appointed in accordance with the

Public Service Act

.




(3)

Officers and employees necessary to carry out the powers, duties and
functions of the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia are to be
appointed in accordance with section 4 of the

Insurance Corporation Act

.




Part 2.1 — Appeals and Show Cause Hearings





Definitions




118.1


In this Part:



"business day"

means a day other than Saturday, Sunday or another holiday listed in
the definition of "holiday" in the

Interpretation Act

;



"person affected by a proposed action of the corporation"

means a person whose licence is the subject of an action, described in
section 118.4 (a) or (b), that is proposed by the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia;



"superintendent"

,
with reference to a particular show cause hearing or appeal, includes
a person, if any, to whom the hearing or appeal is referred under
section 118.2 to that hearing or appeal.






Superintendent may assign appeal officers




118.2


The superintendent, in writing, may refer a specified appeal or show
cause hearing under this Part to be considered and decided by the
individuals the superintendent considers qualified to preside at
appeals and show cause hearings under this Part.






Jurisdiction




118.3

(1)


The superintendent




(a)

has jurisdiction to consider and decide appeals and show cause
hearings under this Part,




(b)

may establish, subject to the regulations, the superintendent's own
practices and procedures for appeals and show cause hearings under
this Part, and




(c)

is not bound by the legal or technical rules of evidence or by
decisions made under section 118.2 in appeals or show cause
hearings under this Part.




(2)

An individual to whom an appeal or show cause hearing is referred
under section 118.2 has all the jurisdiction and may exercise the
powers and perform the duties of the superintendent, in relation to
that appeal or show cause hearing.






Right to show cause to the superintendent against certain proposed
actions




118.4


A person affected by a proposed action of the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia, which action is described in paragraph (a) or (b),
must be given an opportunity to show cause why the proposed action
should not be taken:




(a)

the cancellation of the person's driver training school licence;




(b)

the cancellation of the person's driver training instructor's licence.




(c) and (d)

[Repealed 2003-11-8.]




(e)

[Repealed 2015-13-11.]






Show cause procedure




118.5

(1)


The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia must deliver notice to a
person affected by a proposed action of the corporation, informing the
person of




(a)

the proposed action and the reasons for it, and




(b)

the person's right under this Part to show cause, at a hearing before
the superintendent, why the proposed action should not be taken.




(2)

The person affected by the proposed action may file with the
superintendent, before expiry of the prescribed time limit, a notice
of intention to show cause.




(3)

If the person affected by the proposed action does not file a notice
of intention to show cause within the time limit prescribed for the
purpose of subsection (2), the superintendent may authorize the
corporation to proceed with the proposed action.




(4)

If the person affected by the proposed action files a notice of
intention as set out in subsection (2), the superintendent must set
the time and place for the show cause hearing and give notice of the
hearing to the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia and to the
person.






Show cause hearing decisions




118.6


After hearing the evidence of the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia and the person affected by the proposed action at the show
cause hearing held under section 118.4, the superintendent may
direct that the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia take or
refrain from taking the proposed action that was the subject of the
hearing.






Right of appeal — certain other decisions




118.7


A person affected by any of the following decisions of the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia may appeal the decision to the
superintendent:




(a)

under section 25 (14), the imposition of a restriction or condition in
respect of the person's driver's licence;




(b)

under section 26 (1), the refusal to issue a driver's licence;




(b.1)

under section 26.1, cancellation of the person's driver's licence;




(b.2)

under section 27, issuance of a short term driver's licence;




(c)

under section 91, the prohibition of the person from driving a motor
vehicle;




(d)

the refusal to issue to the person a driver training school licence or
a driver training instructor's licence;




(d.1)

the refusal to renew the person's driver training school licence or
driver training instructor's licence;




(d.2)

the suspension of the person's driver training school licence or
driver training instructor's licence;




(e)

[Repealed 2003-11-9.]




(f)

[Repealed 2015-13-12.]




(g)

[Repealed 2003-11-9.]




(h)

the refusal to accept proof of the person's financial responsibility
in the form of a certificate referred to in section 106 (2) (b), on
the grounds that the person is not an extraprovincial undertaking
within the meaning of section 106 (3);




(i)

the refusal to issue to the person a financial responsibility card,
decal or sticker referred to in section 111;




(j)

the cancellation of the person's financial responsibility card.






Appeal procedure




118.8


The time limit for commencing an appeal under section 118.7 is 30
business days, beginning on the day after the appellant is notified of
the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia's decision.






Written submissions




118.9

(1)


On an appeal under section 118.7, the superintendent may order the
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia and the appellant to deliver
written submissions.




(2)

If the appellant fails to deliver a written submission ordered under
subsection (1) within the time specified in the order, the
superintendent may dismiss the appeal.




(3)

The superintendent must ensure that the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia and the appellant each has the opportunity to review
written submissions from the other and an opportunity to rebut the
written submissions.




(4)

If the superintendent is satisfied that the matter can be disposed of
on the basis of the written submissions delivered, the superintendent
may decide the appeal on that basis without a further hearing.






Powers of superintendent on an appeal




118.91


On considering an appeal, the superintendent may




(a)

confirm, vary or rescind the decision appealed from,




(b)

make any decision that the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia
could have made in the first instance, or




(c)

refer the matter back to the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia
with or without directions.






Regulations




118.92


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations as follows:




(a)

governing how an appeal or a show cause hearing under this Part is to
be commenced and conducted;




(b)

respecting the consequences of non-compliance with the rules governing
appeals and show cause hearings under this Part;




(c)

respecting the status of decisions of the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia pending appeals to the superintendent from those
decisions;




(d)

respecting service, including substitute service, of documents;




(e)

[Repealed 2002-25-59.]




(f)

prescribing fees, payable by the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia, persons affected by proposed actions of the corporation and
appellants, in respect of appeals and show cause hearings under this
Part, which may differ according to the type of proposed action or the
type of decision that gives rise to the right of appeal or the right
to show cause;




(g)

in prescribed circumstances or on prescribed conditions, exempting
particular persons or classes of persons from a fee prescribed under
this Part;




(h)

respecting qualifications to be possessed by individuals to whom
appeals and show cause hearings may be referred under
section 118.2.






Repealed




118.93


[Repealed 2003-11-10.]




Part 2.2 — Show Cause Hearings and Reconsiderations about Commercial
Motor Vehicles





Definitions




118.94


In this Part:


"carrier"
has the prescribed meaning;



"commercial motor vehicle"

has the prescribed meaning;



"safety certificate"

means a safety certificate issued in accordance with regulations made
under section 212.






Suspensions




118.95


If the director considers it desirable in order to ensure road safety,
the director may suspend a safety certificate issued to a carrier or
an authorization or designation granted to a person under section 217
(1) (a) or (b) respecting inspections of vehicles.






Cancellations and restrictions




118.96

(1)


The director may, on written notice, cancel an authorization or
designation granted to a person under section 217 (1) (a) or (b)
respecting inspections of vehicles on the grounds set out in the
regulations.




(2)

If, on the basis of information or profiles referred to in section
212, the director considers it desirable in order to ensure road
safety the director may, on written notice, do any or all of the
following:




(a)

cancel the safety certificate issued to a carrier;




(b)

direct that some or all commercial vehicle licences or permits of
commercial motor vehicles operated by a carrier be cancelled;




(c)

restrict or prohibit the use of a commercial motor vehicle by a
carrier.






Right to show cause and request for reconsideration




118.97

(1)


A person or a carrier who has been given notice under section 118.96
has the right, during the period specified by the director in the
notice, to apply to the director to show cause why the cancellation,
restriction or prohibition should not be made.




(2)

If, at a show cause hearing under subsection (1), the director
confirms a cancellation, restriction or prohibition that was the
subject of a notice under section 118.96, the person or carrier
has the right to apply, during the period specified by the director,
to the director for a reconsideration of the decision.






General reconsideration power of the director




118.98


Despite any provision of this Part, the director may at any time
reconsider, vary or rescind a decision or determination made by the
director under this Part.






Show cause hearings and reconsiderations




118.99

(1)


Subject to this Part and the regulations, the director may establish
the director's own practices and procedures for show cause hearings or
reconsiderations under this Part, and is not bound by the legal or
technical rules of evidence or by decisions or determinations made
under this Part.




(2)

If a person or carrier seeks to show cause under section 118.97 (1) or
requests a reconsideration under section 118.97 (2), the director may,
if the director is satisfied that the matter can be disposed of on the
basis of written submissions, decide the matter on that basis.






Direction to cancel commercial vehicle licences and permits




118.991


At the direction of the director, the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia must cancel any or all commercial vehicle licences or permits
of commercial motor vehicles operated by a carrier and may, but need
not, refund the fee for the licence or permit being cancelled.






Power to make regulations




118.992


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations as follows:




(a)

respecting the conduct of, and practices and procedures for, show
cause hearings or reconsiderations under this Part;




(b)

respecting service, including substitute service, of documents;




(c)

prescribing fees payable by applicants for show cause hearings or
reconsiderations under this Part that may be different for commercial
vehicle licences, permits, safety certificates, authorizations and
designations;




(d)

in prescribed circumstances or on prescribed conditions, exempting a
person or class of person from a fee prescribed under this section.




Part 3





Definitions




119

(1)


In this Part:


"boulevard"
means the area between the curb lines, the lateral lines or the
shoulder of a roadway and the adjacent property line;


"bus lane"
means a lane of a laned roadway in respect of which prescribed signs
or markings indicate that the lane is reserved for the exclusive use
of buses or other prescribed motor vehicles and devices;



"business district"

means the territory contiguous to a portion of a highway having a
length of 200 m along which there are buildings used for
business, industrial or public purposes occupying




(a)

at least 100 m of frontage on one side of that portion, or




(b)

at least 100 m collectively on both sides of that portion,


and includes that portion of the highway;



"combination of vehicles"

means a combination of motor vehicle and trailer or motor vehicle and
trailers;



"controlled access highway"

means a highway designated as such under Division 3 of Part 4 of the

Transportation Act

;


"crosswalk"
means




(a)

a portion of the roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by signs or by lines or other
markings on the surface, or




(b)

the portion of a highway at an intersection that is included within
the connection of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on the opposite
sides of the highway, or within the extension of the lateral lines of
the sidewalk on one side of the highway, measured from the curbs, or
in the absence of curbs, from the edges of the roadway;


"cycle"
means a device having any number of wheels that is propelled by human
power and on which a person may ride and includes a motor assisted
cycle, but does not include a human-powered wheelchair, skate board,
roller skates, in-line roller skates or regulated motorized personal
mobility device;



"designated use highway"

means a highway or part of a highway in respect of which a traffic
control device indicates that the highway or part of a highway is
reserved for the exclusive use of persons, organizations, vehicles or
cycles, classes of persons, organizations, vehicles or cycles
prescribed under section 209.1 or specified in a bylaw or resolution
of the council of a municipality under section 124.2;



"designated use lane"

means a lane of highway in respect of which a traffic control device
indicates that the lane is reserved for the exclusive use of persons,
organizations, vehicles or cycles or classes of persons,
organizations, vehicles or cycles prescribed under section 209.1 or
specified in a bylaw or resolution of the council of a municipality
under section 124.2;


"driver"
means a person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle;



"high occupancy vehicle lane"

means a lane of a laned roadway in respect of which prescribed signs
or markings indicate that the lane is reserved for the exclusive use
of buses, motor vehicles that meet prescribed occupancy requirements
and other prescribed motor vehicles and devices;



"intersection"

means the area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of the 2 highways that join one another at or approximately
at right angles, or the area within which vehicles travelling on
different highways joining at any other angle may come in conflict;



"laned roadway"

means a roadway or the part of a roadway that is divided into 2 or
more marked lanes for the movement of vehicular traffic in the same
direction;



"Nisg̱a'a village"

, in relation to a Nisg̱a'a Village, means the developed area
comprising the main community within the Nisg̱a'a Village Lands of the
Nisg̱a'a Village and constituting the village referred to in paragraph
72 of the Nisg̱a'a Government Chapter of the Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement;



"Nisg̱a'a Village Lands"

has the same meaning as in the Definitions Chapter of the Nisg̱a'a
Final Agreement;



"official vehicle"

has the meaning prescribed by regulation;


"owner"
, with respect to a vehicle, means




(a)

the person who holds the legal title to the vehicle,




(b)

a person who is a conditional purchaser, a lessee or a mortgagor, and
is entitled to be and is in possession of the vehicle, or




(c)

the person in whose name the vehicle is registered;


"park"
, when prohibited, means the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied
or not, except when standing temporarily for the purpose of and while
actually engaged in loading or unloading;


"pedestrian"
means a person afoot, or an invalid or child in a wheelchair or
carriage;



"residence district"

means the territory continuous to a portion of a highway having a
length of 100 m along which there are buildings used for
residence purposes only or for residence and business purposes
occupying




(a)

at least 50 m of frontage on one side of that portion, or




(b)

at least 50 m collectively on both sides of that portion,


and includes that portion of the highway;


"roadway"
means the portion of the highway that is improved, designed or
ordinarily used for vehicular traffic, but does not include the
shoulder, and if a highway includes 2 or more separate roadways, the
term
"roadway"
refers to any one roadway separately and not to all of them
collectively;


"sidewalk"
means the area between the curb lines or lateral lines of a roadway
and the adjacent property lines improved for the use of pedestrians;


"stop"
or
"stand"
means,




(a)

when required, a complete cessation from movement, and




(b)

when prohibited, the stopping or standing of a vehicle, whether
occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or to comply with the directions of a peace officer or traffic
control device;



"through highway"

means a highway or part of a highway at the entrances to which stop
signs are erected under this Act;


"traffic"
includes pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, cycles and
other conveyances, either singly or together, while using a highway to
travel;



"traffic control device"

means a sign, signal, line, meter, marking, space, barrier or device,
not inconsistent with this Part, placed or erected by authority of




(a)

the minister responsible for the administration of the

Transportation Act

,




(b)

the council of a municipality,




(c)

the governing body of a treaty first nation,




(d)

a Nisg̱a'a Government, or




(e)

a person authorized by a person or body referred to in paragraph (a),
(b), (c) or (d) to exercise that authority;



"traffic control person"

means any person who is a member of a class of persons designated or
assigned, in accordance with the regulations or a bylaw or resolution
of the council of a municipality, to direct traffic;



"traffic control signal"

means a traffic control device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is directed to stop and to
proceed.




(2)

For the purpose of the definition of
"intersection"
in subsection (1), "highway" does not include a lane or way less than
5 m in width separating the rear property lines of parcels of land
fronting on highways running more or less parallel to and on each side
of the lane or way.






Application




120


Unless the context otherwise requires,




(a)

the provisions of this Part relating to pedestrians and to the
operation of vehicles refer to pedestrians and to the operation of
vehicles on a highway,




(b)

the provisions of this Part do not apply to persons, vehicles and
other equipment while actually engaged in highway or public utility,
construction or maintenance work on, under or over the surface of a
highway while at the site of the work, but do apply to them when
travelling to or from that site, and




(c)

a person riding an animal or driving an animal driven vehicle on a
highway has the rights and is subject to the duties of the driver of a
vehicle under this Part.






Construction and maintenance vehicles




121


Despite section 120 (b), the driver of a vehicle referred to in that
section must drive with due regard for safety, having regard to all
the circumstances, including the nature, condition and use of the
highway and the amount of traffic that is, or might reasonably be
expected to be, on it.






Exemption for emergency vehicles




122

(1)


Despite anything in this Part, but subject to subsections (2) and (4),
a driver of an emergency vehicle may do the following:




(a)

exceed the speed limit;




(b)

proceed past a red traffic control signal or stop sign without
stopping;




(c)

disregard rules and traffic control devices governing direction of
movement or turning in specified directions;




(d)

stop or stand.




(2)

The driver of an emergency vehicle must not exercise the privileges
granted by subsection (1) except in accordance with the regulations.




(3)

[Repealed 1997-30-2.]




(4)

The driver of an emergency vehicle exercising a privilege granted by
subsection (1) must drive with due regard for safety, having regard to
all the circumstances of the case, including the following:




(a)

the nature, condition and use of the highway;




(b)

the amount of traffic that is on, or might reasonably be expected to
be on, the highway;




(c)

the nature of the use being made of the emergency vehicle at the time.






Police traffic direction




123


If a peace officer reasonably considers it necessary to




(a)

ensure orderly movement of traffic,




(b)

prevent injury or damage to persons or property, or




(c)

permit proper action in an emergency,


the peace officer may direct traffic according to the peace officer's
discretion, despite anything in this Part, and everyone must obey the
peace officer's directions.






Municipal powers




124

(1)


The council of a municipality may, by bylaw not inconsistent with or
derogatory to this Part, provide for the following:




(a)

the placing or erection of traffic control devices to give effect to
this Act or a bylaw adopted under this section;




(b)


the regulation, control or prohibition of traffic

on sidewalks, walkways or boulevards, or in or on lanes or ways
separating the rear property lines of parcels of land fronting on
highways running more or less parallel to and on each side of the
lanes or ways, and at intersections of the lanes or ways with each
other or with highways;




(c)

the regulation, control or prohibition of the stopping, standing or
parking of
vehicles, cycles or other devices
in the municipality;




(d)

in accordance with any regulation made under section 209 (2) (h), for
parking zones for persons with disabilities, on highways that are not
arterial highways, including providing for a system of permits for
those parking zones;




(e)

the setting apart and allotting of portions of highways adjacent to
federal, Provincial or municipal public buildings for the exclusive
use of officials and officers engaged in them for the parking of
vehicles, cycles or other devices
and the regulation of that parking;




(f)

the erection, maintenance and operation on a highway or portion of it
of automatic or other mechanical meters, for the purpose of allotting
and controlling parking spaces for
vehicles, cycles or other devices
, and measuring and recording the duration of parking, and requiring

the driver or operator of a vehicle, cycle or other device parked in
a parking space

to deposit in the appropriate meter a fee for parking in the manner
and at the rate prescribed and as measured by the meter;




(g)

the removal, detention or impounding of

vehicles, cycles or other devices that are

unlawfully occupying a portion of a highway or public place, and a
scale of fees, costs and expenses for that purpose;




(h)

the recovery of the fees, costs and expenses from the owner or by sale
of the
vehicle, cycle or other device
referred to in paragraph (g) at public auction or by action in a court
of competent jurisdiction;




(i)

the establishment and use of loading, commercial and passenger zones
in the municipality and their designation;




(j)

in respect of a highway in a municipality, except an arterial highway,
the regulation of the width, length and height of
vehicles, cycles or other devices
and the width, length, height, fastenings and distribution of loads on
vehicles, cycles or other devices
driven or operated
on the highway
;




(k)

that on a highway where construction, reconstruction, widening,
repair, marking or other work is being carried out, traffic control
devices must be erected or placed indicating that people or equipment
are working on the highway;




(l)

that on a highway where construction, reconstruction, widening,
repair, marking or other work is being carried out, traffic control
devices must be erected or placed to regulate or prohibit traffic in
the vicinity of the work;




(m)

the regulation, control and prohibition of erection or maintenance, or
both, of signs, advertisements or guide posts on or over highways
other than arterial highways in the municipality, and their
alteration, repainting, tearing down or removal without compensation
to any person for the loss or damage that results;




(n)

the regulation or prohibition of pedestrian traffic on highways other
than at crosswalks;




(o)

the prohibition of pedestrian traffic in an unmarked crosswalk
designated by a traffic control device;




(p)

the establishment of school crossings in the municipality and the
regulation and control of
traffic
with respect to them;




(q)

the regulation of traffic passing by or in the vicinity of schools
through the use of traffic patrols, and for that purpose vesting in
the school children or other persons employed in traffic patrols power
to
require traffic to stop
at school crossings or other designated places on a highway;




(r)

the establishment and use of taxi stands in the municipality and their
designation;




(s)

the regulation and control of processions on highways in the
municipality;




(t)

the regulation and control of persons using roller skates, sleighs,
skates, skis or other similar means of conveyance on highways in the
municipality and the closing of a highway or highways or part of them
to permit the use of roller skates, sleighs, skates, skis or other
similar means of conveyance;




(u)

the enforcement of bylaws adopted under this section by fine or
imprisonment, or both, and imposing fines, penalties and costs;




(v)

the use, in places, under conditions and in circumstances specified by
the bylaw, of sidewalks and crosswalks

by persons operating or riding cycles or other devices;





(w)

that

a person operating, or riding as a passenger on, a cycle or other
device

on a path or way designated under paragraph (y) must properly wear a
bicycle safety helmet that




(i)

is designated as an approved bicycle safety helmet under
section 184 (4) (a), or




(ii)

meets the standards and specifications prescribed under section 184
(4) (b);




(x)

that a parent or guardian of a person under the age of 16 years must
not authorize or knowingly permit the person

to operate, or ride as a passenger on, a cycle or other device

on a path or way designated under paragraph (y) if that person is not
properly wearing a bicycle safety helmet that




(i)

is designated as an approved bicycle safety helmet under
section 184 (4) (a), or




(ii)

meets the standards and specifications prescribed under
section 184 (4) (b);




(x.1)

that a parent or guardian of a person under the age of 16 years must
not authorize or knowingly permit the person to operate a motor
assisted cycle on a path or way designated under paragraph (y);




(y)

the designation of paths or ways within the municipality, other than
paths or ways that are highways or are located on private property,
for the purposes of a bylaw made under paragraph (w), (x) or (x.1);




(z)

the exemption of any person or class of persons from a bylaw made
under paragraph (w) or (x) and prescribing conditions for those
exemptions;




(2)

Despite subsection (1), if a municipality adopts a bylaw under that
subsection that contains a provision directing the rate of speed at
which a person may drive or operate a motor vehicle on a highway in
the municipality, a person who contravenes that provision does not
commit an offence against the bylaw.




(3)

Despite subsection (1) (u), a municipality may not impose imprisonment
or a fine of more than $100 for the contravention of a bylaw made
under subsection (1) (w) or (x).




(4)

The powers conferred on the council of a municipality by this section
include the power exercisable by bylaw to do the following:




(a)

to authorize an officer or employee of the municipality to make orders
in respect of the matters comprised in a bylaw adopted under
subsection (1) and by those orders to exercise the powers of the
municipality under that bylaw, subject to the terms and conditions
prescribed in the bylaw;




(b)

to authorize that officer or employee to rescind, revoke, amend or
vary an order made by that officer or employee, subject to the terms
and conditions prescribed in the bylaw;




(c)

to adopt, repeal and amend bylaws under this section even though
authority has been given or delegated under this subsection to an
officer or employee of the municipality.




(5)

Except as otherwise provided under subsection (5.1) or another
statutory provision, the council of a municipality, in addition to the
powers and rights conferred by subsection (1), has the same powers and
rights with respect to highways, other than arterial highways, in the
municipality,

and their use by persons and by vehicles, cycles and other devices

, as are exercisable by the Lieutenant Governor in Council and the
minister responsible for the administration of the

Transportation Act

and not mentioned in subsection (1).




(5.1)

The council of a municipality must not, under subsection (1) or (5),




(a)

regulate in relation to the number of passenger directed vehicles that
may be operated under passenger directed vehicle authorizations or
transportation network services authorizations, or




(b)

prohibit vehicles referred to in paragraph (a) from operating in the
municipality, including, without limitation, by prohibiting the
issuance of a licence to a person to operate a vehicle referred to in
that paragraph for the sole reason that the person holds a licence,
issued by another municipality, to operate the vehicle.




(6)

The council of a municipality may exercise the powers and rights
referred to in subsection (5) by resolution or bylaw.




(7)

Without limiting the scope of subsections (5) and (6), the powers and
rights referred to in those subsections include the powers and rights
of




(a)

the Lieutenant Governor in Council and the minister responsible for
the administration of the

Transportation Act

under section 209, and




(b)

the minister responsible for the administration of the

Transportation Act

under sections 208 and 214.




(8)

For certainty, the powers and rights referred to in subsections (5),
(6) and (7) do not include the power or right to direct the rate of
speed at which a person may drive or operate a motor vehicle on a
highway in the municipality,

except the power to regulate the speed of vehicles, cycles or other
devices





(a)

for the protection of the highway under section 209 (1) (a), and




(b)

for the time of the year and the physical condition of the highway
under section 209 (1) (d).




(9)

Despite subsections (5) and (6), if a municipality adopts a resolution
or bylaw under those subsections that contains a provision regulating

the speed of vehicles, cycles or other devices





(a)

for the protection of the highway under section 209 (1) (a), or




(b)

for the time of the year and the physical condition of the highway
under section 209 (1) (d),


a person who contravenes that provision does not commit an offence
against the bylaw.




(10)

A copy of an order made under a bylaw adopted under subsection (4)
that purports to be certified a true copy by the municipal corporate
officer must be received in all courts as evidence of the order
without further proof of the order or the signature or official
character of the person by whom it is certified.




(11)

A bylaw adopted under this section must not be quashed, set aside or
declared ineffectual or void merely because of an informality or want
of declaration of the power under which it was passed, or on the
grounds of discriminatory exercise of the powers conferred by this
Act.




(12)

In a bylaw or order adopted or made under this section,




(a)

vehicles, cycles or other devices
may be classified according to their nature, type, character, weight,
equipment, accessories or otherwise, and different provisions may be
made for different classes,




(b)

highways or portions of highways, including sidewalks and boulevards,
may be classified according to widths, amount of traffic or otherwise,
and different provisions may be made for different classes, and




(c)

different provisions may be made applicable to different seasons of
the year or to different conditions of the highway.




(13)

A municipal bylaw does not apply to the regulation, control or
prohibition of traffic on an arterial highway as defined in the

Transportation Act

unless its application to arterial highways has been approved by the
minister responsible for the administration of the

Transportation Act

.






Not in force




124.1


[Not in force.]






Additional municipal powers




124.2

(1)


Subject to subsections (2), (3) and (5), the council of a municipality
has the same powers to make bylaws or resolutions with respect to
highways, other than arterial highways, in the municipality and

their use by persons or organizations or classes of persons or
organizations, or by vehicles, cycles or other devices or classes of
vehicles, cycles or other devices,

as the minister has to make regulations under section 209.1.




(2)

A bylaw or resolution may be adopted under subsection (1) only if it
is approved in writing by the minister responsible for the

Transportation Act

, or a person designated in writing by that minister




(a)

if the highway, part of the highway or lane of the highway, or




(b)

if the designated use highway or designated use lane


in respect of which the bylaw or resolution is to apply, is within 800
metres of an arterial highway or a provincial public highway, as those
terms are defined in the

Transportation Act

.




(3)

A municipality must not by bylaw or resolution under subsection (1),
without the written approval of the minister responsible for the

Transportation Act

, take, authorize or permit any action in respect of a highway, part
of a highway, lane, designated use highway or designated use lane,
that would reduce the capacity of all or any part of an arterial
highway or a provincial public highway, within the meaning of the

Transportation Act

, to move people or freight.




(4)

For the purpose of subsection (3), an action would reduce the capacity
of all or any part of an arterial highway or a provincial public
highway to move people or freight if the action would alter traffic
control conditions and traffic movement on a highway in such a way
that fewer persons or less freight would be able to move on the
highway in a given time period than were able to move on the highway
in a comparable time period before the taking of the action.




(5)

A municipality must not by bylaw under subsection (1)




(a)

regulate in relation to the number of passenger directed vehicles that
may be operated under passenger directed vehicle authorizations or
transportation network services authorizations, or




(b)

prohibit vehicles referred to in paragraph (a) from operating in the
municipality, including, without limitation, by prohibiting the
issuance of a licence to a person to operate a vehicle referred to in
that paragraph for the sole reason that the person holds a licence,
issued by another municipality, to operate the vehicle.






Obeying traffic controls




125


Unless otherwise directed by a peace officer or a person authorized by
a peace officer to direct traffic, every driver of a vehicle and every
pedestrian must obey the instructions of an applicable traffic control
device.






Traffic control signals inoperative




125.1

(1)


The driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection that has traffic
control signals that are inoperative must stop before entering the
intersection.




(2)

If 2 vehicles have come to a stop at an intersection described in
subsection (1) from different highways at approximately the same time,
the driver of a vehicle must yield the right of way to the vehicle
that is on the right of the vehicle that the driver is driving, but if
one of the vehicles is already entering the intersection, the driver
of the other vehicle must stop and yield the right of way to the
entering vehicle while it is proceeding into or across the
intersection.






Traffic control signals




126


If traffic is controlled by traffic control signals exhibiting
coloured lights or arrows, only the colours mentioned in
sections 127 to 134 may be used.






Green light




127

(1)


When a green light alone is exhibited at an intersection by a traffic
control signal,




(a)

the driver of a vehicle facing the green light




(i)

may cause the vehicle to proceed straight through the intersection, or
to turn left or right, subject to a sign or signal prohibiting a left
or right turn, or both, or designating the turning movement permitted,




(ii)

must yield the right of way to pedestrians lawfully in the
intersection or in an adjacent crosswalk at the time the green light
is exhibited, and




(iii)

must yield the right of way to vehicles lawfully in the intersection
at the time the green light became exhibited, and




(b)

a pedestrian facing the green light may proceed across the roadway in
a marked or unmarked crosswalk, subject to special pedestrian traffic
control signals directing the pedestrian otherwise, and has the right
of way for that purpose over all vehicles.




(2)

When a green light alone is exhibited at a place other than an
intersection by a traffic control signal,




(a)

the driver of a vehicle




(i)

may cause the vehicle to pass the signal, and




(ii)

must yield the right of way to a pedestrian still in the roadway or on
a crosswalk in the vicinity of the signal when the green light is
exhibited,




(b)

a pedestrian still in the roadway or on a crosswalk in the vicinity of
the signal when the green light is exhibited must proceed as quickly
as possible from the roadway, and




(c)

a pedestrian must not enter the roadway in the vicinity of the signal
until either




(i)

the traffic control signal facing the vehicular traffic exhibits a red
light, or




(ii)

a traffic control signal instructs the pedestrian that the pedestrian
may cross the roadway.






Yellow light




128

(1)


When a yellow light alone is exhibited at an intersection by a traffic
control signal, following the exhibition of a green light,




(a)

the driver of a vehicle approaching the intersection and facing the
yellow light must cause it to stop before entering the marked
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if there is no
marked crosswalk, before entering the intersection, unless the stop
cannot be made in safety,




(b)

a pedestrian facing the yellow light must not enter the roadway, and




(c)

a pedestrian proceeding across the roadway and facing the yellow light
exhibited after the pedestrian entered the roadway




(i)

must proceed to the sidewalk as quickly as possible, and




(ii)

has the right of way for that purpose over all vehicles.




(2)

When a yellow light alone is exhibited at a place other than an
intersection by a traffic control signal,




(a)

the driver of a vehicle approaching the signal must cause it to stop
before entering the nearest marked crosswalk in the vicinity of the
signal, or if there is no marked crosswalk, before reaching the
signal, unless the stop cannot be made in safety, and




(b)

a pedestrian must not enter the roadway in the vicinity of the signal
until either




(i)

the traffic control signal facing the vehicular traffic exhibits a red
light, or




(ii)

a traffic control signal instructs the pedestrian that the pedestrian
may cross the roadway.






Red light




129

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), when a red light alone is exhibited at an
intersection by a traffic control signal, the driver of a vehicle
approaching the intersection and facing the red light must cause it to
stop before entering the marked crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or if there is no marked crosswalk, before entering the
intersection, and subject to the provisions of subsection (3), must
not cause the vehicle to proceed until a traffic control signal
instructs the driver that the driver is permitted to do so.




(2)

The driver of a bus approaching an intersection and facing a red light
and a prescribed white rectangular indicator may cause the bus to
proceed through the intersection.




(3)

Despite subsection (1), and except when a right turn permitted by this
subsection is prohibited by a sign at an intersection, the driver of a
vehicle facing the red light, and which in obedience to it is stopped
as closely as practicable to a marked crosswalk on the near side of
the intersection, or if there is no marked crosswalk, as closely as
practicable to the intersection, may cause the vehicle to make a right
turn, but the driver must yield the right of way to all pedestrians
and vehicles lawfully proceeding as directed by the signal at the
intersection.




(4)

When a red light alone is exhibited at an intersection by a traffic
control signal,




(a)

a pedestrian facing the red light must not enter the roadway unless
instructed that the pedestrian may do so by a pedestrian traffic
control signal,




(b)

except when a left turn permitted by this paragraph is prohibited by a
sign at the intersection, the driver of a vehicle facing the red light
at the intersection of not more than 2 highways, and which in
obedience to it is stopped as closely as practicable to a marked
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if there is no
marked crosswalk, as closely as practicable to the intersection, may
cause the vehicle to make a left turn into a highway on which traffic
is restricted to the direction in which the driver causes the vehicle
to turn, but the driver must yield the right of way to all pedestrians
and vehicles lawfully proceeding as directed by the signal at the
intersection, and




(c)

a pedestrian proceeding across the roadway and facing the red light
exhibited after the pedestrian entered the roadway




(i)

must proceed to the sidewalk as quickly as possible, and




(ii)

has the right of way for that purpose over all vehicles.




(5)

When a red light is exhibited at a place other than an intersection by
a traffic control signal,




(a)

the driver of a vehicle approaching the signal must cause it to stop
before entering the nearest marked crosswalk in the vicinity of the
signal, or if there is no marked crosswalk, before reaching the
signal, and




(b)

a pedestrian may proceed across the roadway.






Arrows




130

(1)


When a green arrow is exhibited at an intersection by a traffic
control signal,




(a)

the driver of a vehicle facing the green arrow may cause it to enter
the intersection and to make only the movement indicated by the green
arrow, but must yield the right of way to pedestrians lawfully in the
intersection or in an adjacent crosswalk and to other vehicles
lawfully in the intersection, and




(b)

a pedestrian facing the green arrow must not enter the roadway unless
a pedestrian traffic control signal or the exhibition of a green light
by a traffic control signal instructs the pedestrian that the
pedestrian is permitted to do so.




(2)

When a yellow arrow is exhibited at an intersection by a traffic
control signal,




(a)

the driver of a vehicle approaching the intersection and facing a
yellow arrow must cause the vehicle to stop




(i)

before entering the marked crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or




(ii)

before entering the intersection, if there is no marked crosswalk,

unless the stop cannot be made in safety,



(b)

the driver of a motor vehicle approaching the intersection and facing
the yellow arrow may, when a stop cannot be made in safety, proceed
with caution to make the only movement indicated by the arrow but must
yield the right of way to pedestrians lawfully in the intersection or
in an adjacent crosswalk, and to other vehicles lawfully in the
intersection,




(c)

a pedestrian facing the yellow arrow must not enter the roadway, and




(d)

a pedestrian proceeding across the roadway and facing the yellow arrow
exhibited after the pedestrian entered the roadway




(i)

must proceed to the sidewalk as quickly as possible, and




(ii)

has the right of way for that purpose over all vehicles.






Flashing lights




131

(1)


When rapid intermittent flashes of red light are exhibited at an
intersection by a traffic control signal,




(a)

the driver of a vehicle approaching the intersection and facing the
flashes of red light must cause the vehicle to stop before entering
the marked crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if there
is no marked crosswalk then before entering the intersection, and must
not cause the vehicle to proceed until it is safe to do so, and




(b)

a pedestrian facing the flashes of red light may proceed with caution
across the roadway, in a marked or unmarked crosswalk.




(2)

When rapid intermittent flashes of red light are exhibited at a place
other than an intersection by a traffic control signal,




(a)

the driver of a vehicle approaching the signal




(i)

must cause it to stop before entering the nearest marked crosswalk in
the vicinity of the signal, or if there is no marked crosswalk then
before reaching the signal, and




(ii)

may, after having caused the vehicle to stop, cause it to pass the
signal and any crosswalk only if conditions of pedestrian traffic in
the roadway or any crosswalk in the vicinity of the signal permit it
to do so with safety, and




(b)

a pedestrian may proceed across the roadway.




(3)

When rapid intermittent flashes of yellow light are exhibited at an
intersection by a traffic control signal,




(a)

the driver of a vehicle facing the flashes of yellow light may cause
it to enter the intersection and proceed only with caution, but must
yield the right of way to pedestrians lawfully in the intersection or
an adjacent crosswalk, and




(b)

a pedestrian facing the flashes of yellow light may proceed with
caution across the roadway, in a marked or unmarked crosswalk.




(4)

When rapid intermittent flashes of yellow light are exhibited at a
place other than an intersection by a traffic control signal,




(a)

the driver of a vehicle approaching the signal may cause the vehicle
to pass the signal only with caution, and must yield the right of way
to pedestrians in the roadway or on any crosswalk in the vicinity of
the signal, and




(b)

a pedestrian may proceed across the roadway with caution.




(5)

When rapid intermittent flashes of green light are exhibited at an
intersection or at a place other than an intersection by a traffic
control signal,




(a)

the driver of a vehicle approaching the intersection or signal and
facing the signal must cause it to approach the intersection or signal
in such a manner that the driver is able to cause the vehicle to stop
before reaching the signal or any crosswalk in the vicinity of the
signal if a stop should become necessary, and must yield the right of
way to pedestrians lawfully in a crosswalk in the vicinity of the
signal or in the intersection, and




(b)

a pedestrian may proceed across the roadway with caution and at an
intersection only in a marked or unmarked crosswalk.






Pedestrian controls




132

(1)


When the word "walk" or an outline of a walking person is exhibited at
an intersection by a pedestrian traffic control signal, a pedestrian
may proceed across the roadway in the direction of the signal in a
marked or unmarked crosswalk and has the right of way over all
vehicles in the intersection or any adjacent crosswalk.




(2)

When the word "walk" or an outline of a walking person is exhibited at
a place other than an intersection by a pedestrian traffic control
signal, a pedestrian may proceed across the roadway in the direction
of the signal and has the right of way over all vehicles.




(3)

When the word "wait", the words "don't walk" or an outline of a raised
hand are exhibited at an intersection or at a place other than an
intersection by a pedestrian traffic control signal,




(a)

a pedestrian must not enter the roadway, and




(b)

a pedestrian proceeding across the roadway and facing the word "wait",
the words "don't walk", or an outline of a raised hand exhibited after
the pedestrian entered the roadway




(i)

must proceed to the sidewalk as quickly as possible, and




(ii)

has the right of way for that purpose over all vehicles.






Pedestrian controlled signal




133


Where a pedestrian is instructed or permitted by a traffic control
signal to enter or to proceed across a roadway, the pedestrian must do
so




(a)

at an intersection, only in a marked or unmarked crosswalk, and




(b)

at a place other than an intersection, in the vicinity of which there
is a marked crosswalk, only in the crosswalk.






Lane direction control signals




134


Where lane direction control signals are placed over individual lanes
of a highway, vehicular traffic may travel in a lane over which a
green signal is shown, but must not enter or travel on a lane over
which a red signal is shown.






Obstruction of signal prohibited




135

(1)


A person must not erect or maintain on or in view of a highway a
device that purports to be, resembles or interferes with the
effectiveness of a traffic control device, unless the person is
authorized to do so by




(a)

the minister responsible for the administration of the

Transportation Act

,




(b)

the council of the municipality in which the device is placed, erected
or maintained,




(c)

the governing body of the treaty first nation in whose treaty lands
the device is placed, erected or maintained,




(c.1)

the Nisg̱a'a Village Government of a Nisg̱a'a Village if the device is
placed, erected or maintained in a Nisg̱a'a village,




(c.2)

the Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government if the device is placed, erected or
maintained in Nisg̱a'a Lands outside a Nisg̱a'a village, or




(d)

a person duly authorized by a person or body referred to in paragraphs
(a) to (c.2).




(2)

A person or body, other than the minister responsible for the
administration of the

Transportation Act

, the council of a municipality, the governing body of a treaty first
nation, a Nisg̱a'a Government or a person authorized by any of them,
must not place, erect or cause to be placed or erected a traffic
control device on a highway.




(3)

A person must not permit or allow the erection or maintenance of a
light, lighting fixture or object reflecting light that, because of
the emission or reflection of light, may affect the visibility of the
highway or anything on it to the driver of a vehicle.






Prohibition against obstruction of traffic light safety devices




135.1


A person commits an offence who, without lawful excuse, intentionally
obstructs or otherwise interferes with the operation of a traffic
light safety device, as defined in section 83.1 (1).






Commercial advertising




136


A person must not place or maintain commercial advertising on a
traffic control device.






Altering signal




137


Except with lawful authority, a person must not alter, injure or
remove, or attempt to alter, injure or remove a traffic control device
or any part of it.






Work in progress




138


On a highway where new construction, reconstruction, widening, repair,
marking or other work is being carried out, traffic control devices
must be erected indicating that persons or equipment are working on
the highway.






Erection of speed sign




139


On a highway where new construction, reconstruction, widening, repair,
marking or other work is being carried out, traffic control devices
must be erected to limit the rate of speed of vehicles or to restrict
the manner in which the vehicles are to proceed on the highway.






Obedience to speed signs




140


Where traffic control devices as indicated in section 138 or 139 are
erected or placed on the highway, a person must not drive or operate a
vehicle at a greater rate of speed than, or in a manner different
from, that indicated on the signs.






Obeying flagger




141


If a flagger is controlling the movements of traffic around the
section of highway being worked on, a person must not drive or operate
a vehicle other than as directed by the flagger.






Obeying traffic control person




141.1

(1)


In this section,
"authorization"
means an authorization that is prescribed or authorized by a
regulation under section 209.1 or a resolution or bylaw of the council
of a municipality under section 124.2.




(2)

If a traffic control person is controlling the movements of traffic on
a highway, a person must obey the directions of the traffic control
person.




(3)

If a highway or lane has been designated as a designated use highway
or designated use lane, as the case may be, the driver of a vehicle
must, on the request of a traffic control person or peace officer,
produce to the traffic control person or peace officer an
authorization, and allow the authorization to be taken in hand and
inspected by the traffic control person or peace officer.




(4)

If a driver or person in charge of a motor vehicle does not produce an
authorization to use the designated use highway or designated use lane
on the request of a traffic control person or peace officer under
subsection (3), the traffic control person or peace officer may direct
the driver or person in charge of the motor vehicle to remove the
motor vehicle from that highway or lane immediately.






Removal of temporary sign




142


A person must not leave temporary traffic control devices in place on
a highway after the reason for them being there no longer exists.






Newly painted lines




143


A person must not drive on or over a newly painted line or marking on
a highway when the line is indicated by a traffic control device.






Careless driving prohibited




144

(1)


A person must not drive a motor vehicle on a highway




(a)

without due care and attention,




(b)

without reasonable consideration for other persons using the highway,
or




(c)

at a speed that is excessive relative to the road, traffic, visibility
or weather conditions.




(2)

A person who contravenes subsection (1) (a) or (b) is liable on
conviction to a fine of not less than $100 and, subject to this
minimum fine, section 4 of the

Offence Act

applies.






Slow driving




145

(1)


A person must not drive a motor vehicle at so slow a speed as to
impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, except
when reduced speed is necessary for safe operation or in compliance
with law.




(2)

If the driver of a motor vehicle is driving at so slow a speed as to
impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, a peace
officer may require the driver to increase the driver's speed, or to
remove the motor vehicle from the roadway to the nearest suitable
place and to refrain from causing or allowing the motor vehicle to
move from that place until directed to do so by a peace officer.






Speed limits




146

(1)


Subject to this section, a person must not drive or operate a motor
vehicle on a highway in a municipality, treaty lands or a Nisg̱a'a
village at a greater rate of speed than 50 km/h, and a person
must not drive or operate a motor vehicle on a highway outside a
municipality or in Nisg̱a'a Lands outside a Nisg̱a'a village at a
greater rate of speed than 80 km/h.




(2)

The minister responsible for the administration of the

Transportation Act

may, by causing a sign to be erected or placed on a highway limiting
the rate of speed of motor vehicles or a category of motor vehicles
driven or operated on that portion of the highway, increase or
decrease the rate of speed at which a person may drive or operate a
motor vehicle or a category of motor vehicle on that portion of the
highway.




(3)

If the minister responsible for the administration of the

Transportation Act

has caused a sign to be erected or placed on a highway limiting the
rate of speed of motor vehicles or a category of motor vehicles driven
or operated on that portion of the highway, a person must not, when
the sign is in place on the highway, drive or operate a vehicle on
that portion of the highway at a greater rate of speed than that
indicated on the sign for that category of motor vehicle.




(4)

The minister responsible for the administration of the

Transportation Act

may, by notice in the Gazette, define areas in the unorganized area of
British Columbia, and may by causing signs to be erected at the
entrance to an area so defined direct the rate of speed at which a
person may drive or operate a motor vehicle or a category of motor
vehicle in that area, but the rate of speed must not be greater than
60 km/h.




(5)

If the minister responsible for the administration of the

Transportation Act

has caused signs to be erected or placed on a highway in accordance
with subsection (4), a person must not, when the sign is in place on
the highway, drive or operate a vehicle on a highway at a greater rate
of speed than that indicated on the sign for that category of motor
vehicle, unless another sign on a specific highway in the defined area
so indicates.




(6)

Subject to subsections (2) and (3), a municipality may by bylaw direct
the rate of speed at which a person may drive or operate a motor
vehicle on a highway in the municipality.




(7)

If, under a bylaw adopted by a municipality or a law enacted by a
treaty first nation or a Nisg̱a'a Government, signs have been erected
or placed on a highway limiting the rate of speed of motor vehicles
driven or operated on a designated portion of the highway, a person
must not, when the sign is in place on the highway, drive or operate a
motor vehicle on that portion of the highway at a greater rate of
speed than that indicated on the sign.




(8)

A municipality may by bylaw direct that the rate of speed at which a
person may drive or operate a motor vehicle in the municipality on a
lane not exceeding 8 m in width must not be in excess of 20 km/h.




(9)

Despite section 260 (3)
[enforcement powers]
of the

Community Charter

, a person who contravenes a bylaw made under subsection (6) or (8)
does not commit an offence against the bylaw.




(10)

A municipality that has enacted a bylaw under subsection (8) and a
treaty first nation or Nisg̱a'a Government that has enacted a law
having the same effect are not required to erect signs designating the
rate of speed at which motor vehicles may be driven or operated.




(11)

A person must not drive or operate a motor vehicle at a greater rate
of speed than 20 km/h on a lane in a municipality that has
enacted a bylaw under subsection (8), or in




(a)

the treaty lands of a treaty first nation,




(b)

a Nisg̱a'a village, or




(c)

Nisg̱a'a Lands outside a Nisg̱a'a village


if the treaty first nation, Nisg̱a'a Village Government or the Nisg̱a'a
Lisims Government, as applicable, has enacted a law having the same
effect.






Schools and playgrounds




147

(1)


A person driving a vehicle on a regular school day and on a highway
where signs are displayed stating a speed limit of 30 km/h, or on
which the numerals "30" are prominently shown, must drive at a rate of
speed not exceeding 30 km/h while approaching or passing the
school building and school grounds to which the signs relate, between
8 a.m. and 5 p.m., or subject to subsection (1.1), between any
extended times that are stated on the signs.




(1.1)

Extended times under subsection (1) may not begin later than 8 a.m. or
end earlier than 5 p.m.




(2)

A person driving a vehicle on a highway must drive the vehicle at a
rate of speed not exceeding 30 km/h when approaching or passing,
between dawn and dusk, a public playground for children where signs
are displayed stating a speed limit of 30 km/h, or on which the
numerals "30" are prominently shown.






Excessive speeding




148

(1)


A person who drives a motor vehicle on a highway at a speed greater
than 40 km/h over the applicable speed limit set under the
authority of an enactment commits an offence and is liable on
conviction to not less than the aggregate of the fine amount and the
applicable supplemental fine amount, if any, prescribed under
section 148.1 for this offence and, subject to those amounts,
section 4 of the

Offence Act

applies.




(2)

If a person is charged with an offence under subsection (1) and
the evidence does not prove the offence but does prove a contravention
of section 140, 146 or 147, the person may be convicted of
contravening section 140, 146 or 147, as the case may be, and the
person is liable on that conviction to not less than the aggregate of
the fine amount and the applicable supplemental fine amount, if any,
prescribed under section 148.1 for that offence.






Fines for speeding offences




148.1

(1)


In relation to a contravention of section 140, 146 (1), (3), (5) or
(7), 147 or 148 (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council may
prescribe




(a)

a fine amount, and




(b)

a supplemental fine amount.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may prescribe




(a)

different fine amounts for the different contraventions referred to in
subsection (1), and




(b)

supplemental fine amounts that vary in relation to the degree by which
a person, in committing the offence, exceeds, by a prescribed rate of
speed, the applicable speed limit established under section 140,
146 (1), (3), (5) or (7), 147 or 148 (1), as the case may
be.




(3)

A person who contravenes section 140, 146 (1), (3), (5) or (7),
147 or 148 (1) is liable on conviction to a minimum fine of not less
than the aggregate of




(a)

the fine amount prescribed in relation to the contravention, and




(b)

the supplemental fine amount, if any, prescribed in relation to, and
applicable to the degree of, the contravention.




(4)

If, by means of a violation ticket defined in section 1 of the

Offence Act

, a person is charged with an offence under section 140, 146 (1),
(3), (5) or (7), 147 or 148 (1) of this Act and the evidence
proves the offence but to a different degree than that reflected by
the supplemental fine amount included in the ticketed amount, as that
term is defined in section 1 of the

Offence Act

,




(a)

the person may be convicted of the offence, and




(b)

the supplemental fine amount may be varied in accordance with the
amount prescribed under subsection (2) (b) to reflect the degree by
which the person exceeded the applicable speed limit.




(5)

The owner of a motor vehicle who is liable under section 83.1 (2) for
a contravention referred to in subsection (1) of this section is
liable on conviction to a minimum fine of not less than the aggregate
of




(a)

the fine amount prescribed in relation to the contravention, and




(b)

the supplemental fine amount, if any, prescribed in relation to, and
applicable to the degree of, the contravention.




(6)

If a violation ticket, defined in section 1 of the

Offence Act

, is issued to an owner of a motor vehicle in respect of an offence
under section 83.1 (2) of this Act and the evidence proves the
contravention of section 140, 146 (1), (3), (5) or (7), 147
or 148 (1), as the case may be, but to a different degree
than that reflected by the supplemental fine amount included in the
ticketed amount, as that term is defined in section 1 of the

Offence Act

,




(a)

the owner may be convicted, and




(b)

the supplemental fine amount may be varied in accordance with the
amount prescribed under subsection (2) (b) to reflect the degree by
which the applicable speed limit was exceeded.






Speeding offences — defence related to signs




148.2


In a prosecution of an offence for contravening a speed limit in which
the maximum rate of speed is indicated on a sign on a highway, it is a
defence if the defendant proves that, at the time of the alleged
offence,




(a)

no driver on the highway could see the front of the sign because the
view of the front of the sign was obstructed, or




(b)

the sign was in place, but no driver on the highway could read the
sign.






Meeting school bus




149


The driver of a vehicle on a highway, on meeting or overtaking a
school bus




(a)

that is designated as a school bus,




(b)

that is stopped on a highway, and




(c)

on or near which a sign or signal is displayed indicating the school
bus is receiving or discharging school children,


must stop the vehicle before reaching the bus and not proceed until
the bus resumes motion or the driver of the bus signals to other
drivers that it is safe to proceed.






Driver on right




150

(1)


The driver of a vehicle must confine the course of the vehicle to the
right hand half of the roadway if the roadway is of sufficient width
and it is practicable to do so, except




(a)

when overtaking and passing a vehicle proceeding in the same
direction,




(b)

when the right hand half of the roadway is closed to traffic while
under construction or repair,




(c)

on a highway designated and marked by signs for one way traffic,




(d)

if necessary when operating snow removing equipment, or




(e)

if




(i)

the movement of a vehicle, or combination of vehicles, is permitted by
and is done in conformity with the terms of the oversize permit issued
under the

Commercial Transport Act

, and




(ii)

the width of a vehicle, or combination of vehicles, or the width of a
load on the vehicle makes the operation of the vehicle or combination
of vehicles on the right hand half of the roadway unsafe.




(2)

The driver of a vehicle proceeding at less than normal speed of
traffic at the time and place and under existing conditions must drive
the vehicle in the right hand lane available for traffic, or as
closely as practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway,
except when




(a)

overtaking and passing another vehicle,




(b)

preparing for a left hand turn at an intersection or into an exit, a
private road or a driveway, or




(c)

passing an official vehicle stopped on the side of or on the roadway.




(3)

The driver of a vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island must
drive the vehicle to the right of the island.






Driving on laned roadway




151


A driver who is driving a vehicle on a laned roadway




(a)

must not drive it from one lane to another when a broken line only
exists between the lanes, unless the driver has ascertained that
movement can be made with safety and will in no way affect the travel
of another vehicle,




(b)

must not drive it from one lane to another if that action necessitates
crossing a solid line,




(c)

must not drive it from one lane to another without first signalling an
intention to do so by hand and arm or approved mechanical device in
the manner prescribed by sections 171 and 172,




(d)

when approaching an intersection intending to turn left must drive the
vehicle in the centre lane or in the lane nearest the centre of the
roadway on the right hand half of the highway,




(e)

when approaching an intersection intending to turn right must drive
the vehicle in the lane nearest to the right hand side of the roadway,




(f)

must not pass a vehicle on the left if that action necessitates
driving on that part of the highway designated for travel in the
opposite direction, and




(g)

if a traffic control device directs slow moving traffic to use a
designated lane, must when driving slowly drive the vehicle in that
lane only.






When drivers must not use leftmost lane




151.1

(1)


In this section,
"leftmost lane"
, in relation to a laned roadway to which this section applies, means
the lane that is furthest to the left of the marked lanes available
for traffic proceeding in the same direction, other than




(a)

a bus lane,




(b)

a high occupancy vehicle lane, or




(c)

a designated use lane.




(2)

This section applies to a laned roadway if




(a)

there are 2 or more marked lanes available for traffic proceeding in
the same direction, other than a bus lane, a high occupancy vehicle
lane or a designated use lane,




(b)

the speed limit is at least 80 km/h, and




(c)

the actual speed of traffic is at least 50 km/h.




(3)

A driver of a vehicle in the leftmost lane must exit the lane on the
approach of another vehicle in that lane, if it is safe to do so,
except when




(a)

overtaking and passing a third vehicle,




(b)

allowing traffic to merge,




(c)

preparing for a left hand turn at an intersection or into an exit, a
private road or a driveway, or




(d)

passing an official vehicle stopped on the side of or on the roadway.






High occupancy vehicle lane




152


If a laned roadway has a high occupancy vehicle lane, a person must
not drive a motor vehicle or other device in that lane unless
permitted by the regulations.






Bus lane




153


If a laned roadway has a bus lane, a person must not drive a motor
vehicle or other device in that lane unless permitted by the
regulations.






Designated use highway




153.1


If a highway or part of a highway is a designated use highway, a
person must not drive, operate, stand or park a motor vehicle on that
highway or part of a highway except as authorized by a regulation
under section 209.1 or a bylaw or resolution of the council of a
municipality under section 124.2.






Designated use lane




153.2


If a highway has a designated use lane, a person must not drive,
operate, stand or park a motor vehicle in that lane except as
authorized by a regulation under section 209.1 or a bylaw or
resolution of the council of a municipality under section 124.2.






Passing when meeting vehicle




154

(1)


The driver of a vehicle must drive the vehicle on the right hand side
of the roadway when meeting another vehicle that is moving.




(2)

The driver of a vehicle on a highway that has a width for only one
line of traffic in each direction must, when meeting another vehicle
that is moving, drive the vehicle so that the other vehicle is able to
travel in at least 1/2 of the main travelled portion of the highway as
nearly as possible.






Highway lines




155

(1)


Despite anything in this Part, if a highway is marked with




(a)

a solid double line, the driver of a vehicle must drive it to the
right of the line only,




(b)

a double line consisting of a broken line and a solid line,




(i)

the driver of a vehicle proceeding along the highway on the side of
the broken line must drive the vehicle to the right of the double
line, except when passing an overtaken vehicle, and




(ii)

the driver of a vehicle proceeding along the highway on the side of
the solid line must drive the vehicle to the right of the double line,
except only when finishing the passing of an overtaken vehicle, and




(c)

one single line, broken or solid, the driver of a vehicle must drive
the vehicle to the right of the line, except only when passing an
overtaken vehicle.




(2)

Subsection (1) (b) (i) and (c) do not apply if a driver is avoiding an
obstruction on the highway and first ascertains that the movement can
be made with safety and without affecting the travel of any other
vehicle.






Suspension of sections 151 and 155




156


If the driver of a vehicle is causing the vehicle to enter or leave a
highway and the driver has ascertained that the driver might do so
with safety and does so without unreasonably affecting the travel of
another vehicle, the provisions of sections 151 and 155 are suspended
with respect to the driver while the vehicle is entering or leaving
the highway.






Duty when overtaking




157

(1)


Except as provided in section 158, the driver of a vehicle overtaking
another vehicle




(a)

must cause the vehicle to pass to the left of the other vehicle at a
safe distance, and




(b)

must not cause or permit the vehicle to return to the right side of
the highway until safely clear of the overtaken vehicle.




(2)

Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, a driver
of an overtaken vehicle,




(a)

on hearing an audible signal given by the driver of the overtaking
vehicle, must cause the vehicle to give way to the right in favour of
the overtaking vehicle, and




(b)

must not increase the speed of the vehicle until completely passed by
the overtaking vehicle.






Passing on right




158

(1)


The driver of a vehicle must not cause or permit the vehicle to
overtake and pass on the right of another vehicle, except




(a)

when the vehicle overtaken is making a left turn or its driver has
signalled an intention to make a left turn,




(b)

when on a laned roadway there is one or more than one unobstructed
lane on the side of the roadway on which the driver is permitted to
drive, or




(c)

on a one way street or a highway on which traffic is restricted to one
direction of movement, where the roadway is free from obstructions and
is of sufficient width for 2 or more lanes of moving vehicles.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), a driver of a vehicle must not cause the
vehicle to overtake and pass another vehicle on the right




(a)

when the movement cannot be made safely, or




(b)

by driving the vehicle off the roadway.






Passing on left




159


A driver of a vehicle must not drive to the left side of the roadway
in overtaking and passing another vehicle unless the driver can do so
in safety.






Clear view on passing




160


A driver of a vehicle must not drive to or on the left side of the
roadway, other than on a one way highway, unless the driver has a
clear view of the roadway for a safe distance, having regard for all
the circumstances.






Obedience to traffic control devices




161


Despite anything in this Act, if on or over a highway there is




(a)

one or more traffic control devices indicating the direction vehicles
must proceed, a person must not drive a vehicle other than in the
direction indicated,




(b)

a traffic control device indicating that a certain vehicle movement is
prohibited, a person must not drive a vehicle in a movement prohibited
by the sign,




(c)

one or more traffic control devices indicating that use, access or
egress is regulated or restricted on the designated use highway, a
person must not drive or operate a vehicle on the designated use
highway except as authorized by a regulation under section 209.1 or a
bylaw or resolution of the council of a municipality under section
124.2, and




(d)

one or more traffic control devices indicating that the use, access or
egress is prohibited on the designated use highway, a person must not
drive or operate a vehicle on the designated use highway in a manner
prohibited by the traffic control device except as authorized by a
regulation under section 209.1 or a bylaw or resolution of the council
of a municipality under section 124.2.






Following too closely




162

(1)


A driver of a vehicle must not cause or permit the vehicle to follow
another vehicle more closely than is reasonable and prudent, having
due regard for the speed of the vehicles and the amount and nature of
traffic on and the condition of the highway.




(2)

The driver of a commercial motor vehicle or a combination of vehicles,
when driving on a roadway outside a business or residence district,
must not follow within 60 m of another commercial motor vehicle or a
combination of vehicles, but this must not be construed to prevent one
commercial motor vehicle or a combination of vehicles overtaking and
passing another.




(3)

The driver of a motor vehicle in a caravan or motorcade, other than a
funeral procession, outside a business or residence district, must
leave sufficient space between the driver's vehicle and another
vehicle or combination of vehicles to enable a vehicle to enter and
occupy that space without danger.






Divided highways




163


If a highway has been divided into 2 roadways by a physical barrier or
clearly indicated dividing section constructed so that it impedes
vehicular traffic, a driver must not




(a)

drive a vehicle over, across or within a barrier or dividing section,
except at a crossover or intersection, or




(b)

drive a vehicle on the left hand roadway unless directed or permitted
to do so by a peace officer or a traffic control device.






Entering controlled access highway




164

(1)


If on a controlled access highway there is a sign indicating a
location at which vehicles are permitted to enter, a person must not
drive a vehicle on to the highway except at that location.




(2)

If on a controlled access highway there is a sign indicating a
location at which vehicles are permitted to leave, a person must not
drive a vehicle from the highway except at that location.






Turning at intersections




165

(1)


If the driver of a vehicle intends to turn it to the right at an
intersection, the driver must cause it to approach the intersection
and then make the turn as close as practicable to the right hand curb
or edge of the roadway.




(2)

When the driver of a vehicle intends to turn it to the left at an
intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both directions on
each highway entering the intersection, the driver must




(a)

cause the vehicle to approach the intersection in the portion of the
right side of the roadway that is nearest the marked centre line, or
if there is no marked centre line, then as far as practicable in the
portion of the right half of the roadway that is nearest the centre
line,




(b)

keep the vehicle to the right of the marked centre line or centre line
of the roadway, as the case may be, at the place the highway enters
the intersection,




(c)

after entering the intersection, turn the vehicle to the left so that
it leaves the intersection to the right of the marked centre line of
the roadway being entered, or if there is no marked centre line then
to the right of the centre line of the roadway being entered, and,




(d)

when practicable, turn the vehicle in the portion of the intersection
to the left of the centre of the intersection.




(3)

When the driver of a vehicle intends to turn the vehicle left at an
intersection where traffic is restricted to one direction on one or
more of the highways, the driver must cause the vehicle to approach
the intersection in the extreme left hand lane available to traffic
moving in the direction of travel of the vehicle, and after entering
the intersection turn the vehicle to the left so as to leave the
intersection as nearly as practicable in the left hand lane available
to traffic moving in the direction of travel of the vehicle on the
highway being entered.




(4)

If at an intersection there is a traffic control device indicating the
course to be travelled by vehicles turning at the intersection, a
driver must turn a vehicle at the intersection in the manner directed
by the traffic control device.




(5)

A person must not turn a vehicle at an intersection unless it is in
the position on the highway required by this section.






Turning left other than at intersection




166


A driver of a vehicle must not turn the vehicle to the left from a
highway at a place other than an intersection unless




(a)

the driver causes the vehicle to approach the place on the portion of
the right hand side of the roadway that is nearest the marked centre
line, or if there is no marked centre line, then as far as practicable
in the portion of the right half of the roadway that is nearest the
centre line,




(b)

the vehicle is in the position on the highway required by paragraph
(a), and




(c)

the driver has ascertained that the movement can be made in safety,
having regard to the nature, condition and use of the highway and the
traffic that actually is at the time or might reasonably be expected
to be on the highway.






Turning right other than at intersection




167


A driver of a vehicle must not turn the vehicle to the right from a
highway at a place other than an intersection unless




(a)

the driver causes the vehicle to approach the place as closely as
practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway, and




(b)

the vehicle is in the position on the highway required by paragraph
(a).






Reverse turn




168


Except as provided by the bylaws of a municipality or the laws of a
treaty first nation, the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village, a driver
must not turn a vehicle so as to proceed in the opposite direction




(a)

unless the driver can do so without interfering with other traffic,
or,




(b)

when the driver is driving




(i)

on a curve,




(ii)

on an approach to or near the crest of a grade where the vehicle
cannot be seen by the driver of another vehicle approaching from
either direction within 150 m,




(iii)

at a place where a sign prohibits making a U-turn,




(iv)

at an intersection where a traffic control signal has been erected, or




(v)

in a business district, except at an intersection where no traffic
control signal has been erected.






Starting vehicle




169


A person must not move a vehicle that is stopped, standing or parked
unless the movement can be made with reasonable safety and the person
first gives the appropriate signal under section 171 or 172.






Yielding to bus




169.1

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), the driver of a vehicle on a highway, on
overtaking a bus that is stopped, standing or parked, must yield the
right of way to the bus if




(a)

the bus displays a sign or other signal device requiring the driver of
the vehicle to yield to the bus, and




(b)

the bus driver has signalled an intention to move into the travelled
portion of the highway.




(2)

Subsection (1) applies if, at the point on the highway where the
driver overtakes the bus, the applicable speed limit is not more than
60 km/h.




(3)

Despite subsection (1), a bus driver must not move a bus into the
travelled portion of the highway unless it is safe to do so.




(4)

A sign or signal device referred to in subsection (1) (a) must not be
displayed on any vehicle other than a bus that is




(a)

operated by or on behalf of




(i)

British Columbia Transit under the

British Columbia Transit Act

, or




(ii)

the South Coast British Columbia Transportation Authority under the

South Coast British Columbia Transportation Authority Act

, or




(b)

operated by or on behalf of a person, municipality or treaty first
nation as part of an independent transit service approved by the South
Coast British Columbia Transportation Authority under section 5 of the

South Coast British Columbia Transportation Authority Act

.






Signals on turning




170

(1)


If traffic may be affected by turning a vehicle, a person must not
turn it without giving the appropriate signal under sections 171
and 172.




(2)

If a signal of intention to turn right or left is required, a driver
must give it continuously for sufficient distance before making the
turn to warn traffic.




(3)

If there is an opportunity to give a signal, a driver must not stop or
suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle without first giving the
appropriate signal under sections 171 and 172.






Means of signalling




171

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), if a signal is required a driver must give
it by means of




(a)

the driver's hand and arm,




(b)

a signal lamp of a type approved by the director, or




(c)

a mechanical device of a type approved by the director.




(2)

When a vehicle is constructed or loaded in a manner that makes a
signal by hand and arm not visible both to its front and rear, or a
body or load extends more than 60 cm to the left of the centre of
the steering wheel, a driver must give signals as provided by
subsection (1) (b) or (c), and a person must not drive the motor
vehicle on a highway unless it is so equipped.






Left hand drive signals




172

(1)


When a driver of a left hand drive vehicle gives a signal by hand and
arm, the driver must do so from the left side, and must signify




(a)

a left turn by extending the driver's left hand and arm horizontally
from the vehicle,




(b)

a right turn by extending the driver's left hand and arm out and
upward from the vehicle, and




(c)

a stop or decrease in speed by extending the driver's left hand and
arm out and downward from the vehicle.




(2)

A person must not drive a right hand drive vehicle on a highway unless
it is equipped with a mechanical or electrical signalling device
approved by the Lieutenant Governor in Council.






Yield signs




173

(1)


Except as provided in section 175, if 2 vehicles approach or enter an
intersection from different highways at approximately the same time
and there are no yield signs, the driver of a vehicle must yield the
right of way to the vehicle that is on the right of the vehicle that
the driver is driving.




(2)

Except as provided in section 175, if 2 vehicles approach or enter an
intersection from different highways at approximately the same time
and there is a yield sign, the driver of a vehicle facing the sign
must yield the right of way to all other traffic.






Yielding right of way on left turn




174


When a vehicle is in an intersection and its driver intends to turn
left, the driver must yield the right of way to traffic approaching
from the opposite direction that is in the intersection or so close as
to constitute an immediate hazard, but having yielded and given a
signal as required by sections 171 and 172, the driver may turn
the vehicle to the left, and traffic approaching the intersection from
the opposite direction must yield the right of way to the vehicle
making the left turn.






Entering through highway




175

(1)


If a vehicle that is about to enter a through highway has stopped in
compliance with section 186,




(a)

the driver of the vehicle must yield the right of way to traffic that
has entered the intersection on the through highway or is approaching
so closely on it that it constitutes an immediate hazard, and




(b)

having yielded, the driver may proceed with caution.




(2)

If a vehicle is entering a through highway in compliance with
subsection (1), traffic approaching the intersection on the highway
must yield the right of way to the entering vehicle while it is
proceeding into or across the highway.






Emerging from alleys




176

(1)


The driver of a vehicle in a business or residence district and
emerging from an alley, driveway, building or private road must stop
the vehicle immediately before driving onto the sidewalk or the
sidewalk area extending across an alleyway or private driveway, and
must yield the right of way to a pedestrian on the sidewalk or
sidewalk area.




(2)

The driver of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from an
alley, lane, driveway, building or private road must yield the right
of way to traffic approaching on the highway so closely that it
constitutes an immediate hazard.






Approach of emergency vehicle




177


On the immediate approach of an emergency vehicle giving an audible
signal by a bell, siren or exhaust whistle, and showing a visible
flashing red light, except when otherwise directed by a peace officer,
a driver must yield the right of way, and immediately drive to a
position parallel to and as close as possible to the nearest edge or
curb of the roadway, clear of an intersection, and stop and remain in
that position until the emergency vehicle has passed.






Repealed




178


[Repealed 2003-96-54.]






Rights of way between vehicle and pedestrian




179

(1)


Subject to section 180, the driver of a vehicle must yield the right
of way to a pedestrian where traffic control signals are not in place
or not in operation when the pedestrian is crossing the highway in a
crosswalk and the pedestrian is on the half of the highway on which
the vehicle is travelling, or is approaching so closely from the other
half of the highway that the pedestrian is in danger.




(2)

A pedestrian must not leave a curb or other place of safety and walk
or run into the path of a vehicle that is so close it is impracticable
for the driver to yield the right of way.




(3)

If a vehicle is slowing down or stopped at a crosswalk or at an
intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the highway, the driver
of a vehicle approaching from the rear must not overtake and pass the
vehicle that is slowing down or stopped.




(4)

A pedestrian, a cyclist, the operator of a regulated motorized
personal mobility device or the driver of a motor vehicle must obey
the instructions of an adult school crossing guard and of a school
student acting as a member of a traffic patrol where the guards or
students are




(a)

provided under the

School Act

,




(b)

authorized by the chief of police of the municipality as defined in
section 36 (1),




(c)

if located on treaty lands, authorized by the chief of the police
force responsible for policing the treaty lands, or




(d)

if located on Nisg̱a'a Lands, authorized by the chief of the police
force responsible for policing the Nisg̱a'a Lands.






Crossing at other than crosswalk




180


When a pedestrian is crossing a highway at a point not in a crosswalk,
the pedestrian must yield the right of way to a vehicle.






Duty of driver




181


Despite sections 178, 179 and 180, a driver of a vehicle must




(a)

exercise due care to avoid colliding with a pedestrian who is on the
highway,




(b)

give warning by sounding the horn of the vehicle when necessary, and




(c)

observe proper precaution on observing a child or apparently confused
or incapacitated person on the highway.






Pedestrians using highways




182

(1)


If there is a sidewalk that is reasonably passable on either or both
sides of a highway, a pedestrian must not use a roadway.




(2)

If there is no sidewalk, a pedestrian using a highway must use only
the extreme left side of the roadway or the shoulder of the highway,
facing traffic approaching from the opposite direction.




(3)

A person must not be on a roadway to solicit a ride, employment or
business from an occupant of a vehicle.




(4)

Except for a person who solicits a ride in an emergency situation, a
person who contravenes this section commits an offence.






Operation of regulated motorized personal mobility devices




182.01


A person who operates a regulated motorized personal mobility device
on a highway must do so in accordance with the regulations.






Motor assisted cycles




182.1

(1)


A person who is under the age of 16 years commits an offence if that
person operates a motor assisted cycle on a highway.




(2)

A parent or guardian of a person under the age of 16 years commits an
offence if the parent or guardian authorizes or knowingly permits the
person to operate a motor assisted cycle on a highway.




(3)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations respecting
motor assisted cycles including, without limitation, regulations
prescribing




(a)

the criteria that must be met by a device in order for it to qualify
as a motor assisted cycle for the purposes of this Act,




(b)

the requirements that must be met in relation to operators of, and
equipment attached to, motor assisted cycles, and




(c)

restrictions on what may be attached to or carried on a motor assisted
cycle.






Rights and duties of operator of cycle




183

(1)


In addition to the duties imposed by this section, a person operating
a cycle on a highway has the same rights and duties as a driver of a
vehicle.




(2)

A person operating a cycle




(a)

must not ride on a sidewalk unless authorized by a bylaw made under
section 124 or unless otherwise directed by a sign,




(b)

must not, for the purpose of crossing a highway, ride on a crosswalk
unless authorized to do so by a bylaw made under section 124 or unless
otherwise directed by a sign,




(c)

must, subject to paragraph (a), ride as near as practicable to the
right side of the highway,




(d)

must not ride abreast of another person operating a cycle on the
roadway,




(e)

must keep at least one hand on the handlebars,




(f)

must not ride other than on or astride a regular seat of the cycle,




(g)

must not use the cycle to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped, and




(h)

must not ride a cycle on a highway where signs prohibit their use.




(3)

Nothing in subsection (2) (c) requires a person to ride a cycle on any
part of a highway that is not paved.




(4)

Despite section 165, a person operating a cycle who intends to turn it
to the left at an intersection where there is more than one lane from
which left turns are permitted must




(a)

cause the cycle to approach the intersection in the lane closest to
the right side of the highway from which a left turn is permitted,




(b)

keep the cycle to the right of the line that divides the lane referred
to in paragraph (a) from the lane immediately to the left of that
lane,




(c)

after entering the intersection, turn the cycle to the left so that it
will leave the intersection to the right of the line referred to in
paragraph (b), and




(d)

when practicable, turn the cycle in the portion of the intersection to
the left of the centre of the intersection.




(5)

A person must not ride a cycle, skate board, roller skates, in-line
roller skates, sled, play vehicle or other similar means of conveyance
when it is attached by the arm and hand of the rider or otherwise to a
vehicle on a highway.




(6)

A cycle operated on a highway between 1/2 hour after sunset and 1/2
hour before sunrise must have the following equipment:




(a)

a lighted lamp mounted on the front and under normal atmospheric
conditions capable of displaying a white light visible at least
150 m in the direction the cycle is pointed;




(b)

a red reflector;




(c)

a lighted lamp, mounted and visible to the rear, displaying a red
light.




(7)

Despite any other provision of this Act or the regulations, a cycle
may be equipped with a flashing red light.




(8)

A cycle operated on a highway must be equipped with a brake that will
enable the person operating the cycle to make the braked wheels skid
on dry, level and clean pavement.




(9)

If an accident occurs by which a person or property is injured,
directly or indirectly, owing to the presence or operation of a cycle
on a highway or a sidewalk, the person in charge of the cycle must




(a)

remain at or immediately return to the scene of the accident,




(b)

render all possible assistance, and




(c)

give to anyone sustaining loss or injury the person's name and address
and the name and address of the owner of the cycle, and if the cycle
has been licensed and registered, the licence or registration number
of the cycle.




(10) to (13)

[Repealed 2008-42-83.]




(14)

A person must not operate a cycle




(a)

on a highway without due care and attention or without reasonable
consideration for other persons using the highway, or




(b)

on a sidewalk without due care and attention or without reasonable
consideration for other persons using the sidewalk.




(15)

If a person is convicted of an offence under this Act in respect of
the person's riding or operating a cycle, the court may, in addition
to or in place of any penalty otherwise prescribed, order the cycle
seized, and on the expiry of that period the person entitled to it may
again have possession of the cycle.




(16)

For the purpose of seizing and impounding a cycle under an order made
under subsection (15), a peace officer may enter any place or building
in which the cycle is located.




(17)

A person operating a cycle on a highway must signify




(a)

a left turn by extending the person's left hand and arm horizontally
from the cycle,




(b)

a right turn by doing either of the following:




(i)

extending the person's left hand and arm out and upward from the cycle
so that the upper and lower parts of the arm are at right angles;




(ii)

extending the person's right hand and arm horizontally from the cycle,
and




(c)

a stop or decrease in speed by extending the person's left hand and
arm out and down from the cycle.






Bicycle safety helmets




184

(1)


A person commits an offence if that person operates or rides as a
passenger on a cycle on a highway and is not properly wearing a
bicycle safety helmet that




(a)

is designated as an approved bicycle safety helmet under subsection
(4) (a), or




(b)

meets the standards and specifications prescribed under subsection (4)
(b).




(2)

A parent or guardian of a person under the age of 16 years commits an
offence if the parent or guardian authorizes or knowingly permits the
person to operate or ride as a passenger on a cycle on a highway if
that person is not properly wearing a bicycle safety helmet that




(a)

is designated as an approved bicycle safety helmet under subsection
(4) (a), or




(b)

meets the standards and specifications prescribed under subsection (4)
(b).




(3)

A person who is convicted of an offence under subsection (1) or (2) is
liable to a fine of not more than $100.




(4)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations as follows:




(a)

designating a helmet as an approved bicycle safety helmet for the
purposes of this section;




(b)

prescribing standards and specifications for bicycle safety helmets.




(5)

Regulations made under subsection (4) (b) may adopt by reference, in
whole or in part, standards or specifications published by a national
or international standards association, as amended from time to time.




(6)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations as follows:




(a)

providing for and requiring the identification and marking of bicycle
safety helmets;




(b)

exempting any person or class of persons from the requirements of this
section and prescribing conditions for those exemptions.






Railway crossings




185

(1)


When a driver is approaching a railway crossing at a time when




(a)

a clearly visible electrical or mechanical signal device gives warning
of the approach of a railway train,




(b)

a crossing gate is lowered or a flagger is giving a signal of the
approach or passage of a railway train, or




(c)

a railway train is approaching and is within approximately 500 m
of a crossing or by reason of its speed or nearness to the crossing is
an immediate hazard and emits an audible signal or is visible,


the driver must stop the vehicle within 15 m but not less than
5 m from the nearest rail of the railway, and must not cause or
permit the vehicle to proceed until the driver can do so safely.




(2)

A person must not drive a vehicle through, around or under a crossing
gate or barrier at a railway crossing while the gate or barrier is
closed or is being opened or closed.




(3)

If a stop sign is erected at a railway crossing, a driver approaching
the railway crossing




(a)

must stop the driver's vehicle




(i)

no closer than 5 m, and




(ii)

no farther than 15 m from the nearest rail of the railway, and




(b)

must not proceed until the driver can do so safely.




(4)

Except at a railway spur line or an industrial track in a business or
residence district, the driver of




(a)

a bus carrying passengers for compensation,




(b)

a school bus carrying a child,




(c)

a vehicle carrying explosive substances or any poisonous or flammable
substance as cargo, or




(d)

a vehicle used to carry flammable liquids or gas, whether or not it is
then empty,


approaching a railway crossing that is not protected by gates or
railway crossing signal lights, unless otherwise directed by a
flagger, must




(e)

stop the driver's vehicle




(i)

no closer than 5 m, and




(ii)

no farther than 15 m from the nearest rail of the railway,




(f)

remaining stopped, must listen and look in both directions along the
railway for an approaching train, and for signals indicating the
approach of a train, and




(g)

must not proceed until the driver can do so safely.




(5)

When a driver has stopped in accordance with this section, the driver
must




(a)

cross the railway tracks in a gear that the driver will not need to
change while crossing the tracks,




(b)

not shift gears while so crossing, and




(c)

not stop with a part of the vehicle on or over the tracks.




(6)

Despite this Act, the driver of a vehicle approaching the track of a
railway must proceed with caution to avoid a collision between the
vehicle and an approaching train.






Stopping at intersections




186


Except when a peace officer directs otherwise, if there is a stop sign
at an intersection, a driver of a vehicle must stop




(a)

at the marked stop line, if any,




(b)

before entering the marked crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or




(c)

when there is neither a marked crosswalk nor a stop line, before
entering the intersection, at the point nearest the intersecting
highway from which the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting highway.






Where parking prohibited




187

(1)


Subject to subsection (3), if outside of a business or residence
district it is practicable to stop, park or leave a vehicle off the
roadway, a person must not stop, park or leave the vehicle either
unattended or attended on the roadway.




(2)

Subject to subsection (3), a person must not park a vehicle so as to
obstruct the free passage of traffic on the highway.




(3)

Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply when a vehicle is so disabled
that it is not practicable to avoid stopping and temporarily leaving
it on a highway.






Police may move parked vehicle




188

(1)


If a vehicle is standing or parked




(a)

in contravention of section 190,




(b)

in a position that causes it to interfere with removal of snow from a
highway by a person authorized to do so by the minister responsible
for the administration of the

Transportation Act

, a municipality, a treaty first nation, the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a
Nisg̱a'a Village,




(c)

in a position that causes it to interfere with fire fighting,




(d)

in a position that causes it to interfere with the normal flow of
traffic on the highway,




(e)

in a position that causes it to interfere with the construction,
improvement, alteration, extension, widening, marking or repair of a
highway, or




(e.1)

in contravention of a regulation made under section 209.1 or a bylaw
or resolution of the council of a municipality under section 124.2,

a peace officer may



(f)

move the vehicle, or require the driver or person in charge of the
vehicle to move it, to a position determined by the peace officer, or




(g)

move the vehicle or take the vehicle into the peace officer's custody
and cause it to be taken to and stored in a safe and otherwise
suitable place.




(2)

When an unattended vehicle is




(a)

parked in contravention of section 187, 189 or 190,




(b)

apparently abandoned on or near a highway,




(c)

without proper or valid number plates, or




(d)

stopped, standing or parked in contravention of a regulation made
under section 209.1 or a bylaw or resolution of the council of a
municipality under section 124.2,


a peace officer may take it into the peace officer's custody and cause
it to be taken to and stored in a safe and otherwise suitable place.




(3)

If a vehicle is standing or parked in a position that causes it to
interfere with the removal of snow from a highway by a person
authorized to do so by the minister responsible for the administration
of the

Transportation Act

, a municipality, a treaty first nation, the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a
Nisg̱a'a Village, the person so authorized or a peace officer may




(a)

move the vehicle, or




(b)

cause it to be moved.




(3.1)

If a vehicle is stopped, standing or parked in a position that causes
it to interfere with or impede the use of the highway by vehicles or
traffic using, accessing or egressing a designated use highway or a
designated use lane in accordance with a regulation made under section
209.1 or a bylaw or resolution of the council of a municipality under
section 124.2, a peace officer or traffic control person may move the
vehicle or cause it to be moved.




(4)

All costs and charges for the removal, care or storage of a motor
vehicle removed under this section must be paid by the owner of the
motor vehicle, and constitute a lien on it in favour of the keeper of
any repair shop, garage or storage place in which that motor vehicle
is stored.




(5)

A lien under subsection (4) may be enforced by a person entitled to
the lien in the manner provided by the

Repairers Lien Act

or the

Warehouse Lien Act

.






When vehicle stopping prohibited




189

(1)


Except when necessary to avoid conflict with traffic or to comply with
the law or the directions of a peace officer or traffic control
device, a person must not stop, stand or park a vehicle as follows:




(a)

on a sidewalk or boulevard;




(b)

in front of a public or private driveway;




(c)

in an intersection, except as permitted by a sign;




(d)

within 5 m of a fire hydrant measured from a point in the curb or edge
of the roadway that is closest to the fire hydrant;




(e)

on a crosswalk;




(f)

within 6 m of the approach side of a crosswalk;




(g)

within 6 m on the approach to a flashing beacon, stop sign or traffic
control signal located at the side of a roadway;




(h)

within 6 m either side of the entrance to or exit from a hotel,
theatre, public meeting place, dance hall, fire hall or playground in
rural area;




(i)

within 15 m of the nearest rail of a railway crossing;




(j)

subject to subsection (4), on a highway for the principal purpose of




(i)

displaying a vehicle for sale,




(ii)

advertising, greasing, painting, wrecking, storing or repairing a
vehicle, unless repairs are necessitated by an emergency,




(iii)

displaying signs, or




(iv)

selling flowers, fruit, vegetables, sea foods or other commodities or
articles;




(k)

alongside or opposite a street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking obstructs traffic;




(l)

on the roadway side of a vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb
of a roadway;




(m)

on a bridge or other elevated structure on a highway, or in a highway
tunnel, except as permitted by a traffic control device;




(n)

in a place in contravention of a traffic control device that gives
notice that stopping, standing or parking there is prohibited or
restricted;




(o)

in a manner that obstructs the visibility of a standard traffic sign
erected by or with the authority of the minister responsible for the
administration of the

Transportation Act

, a municipality, a treaty first nation, the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a
Nisg̱a'a Village.




(2)

A person must not move a vehicle that is not lawfully under the
person's control into a place mentioned in subsection (1).




(3)

Despite subsection (1) (f) and (g), a municipality may provide by
bylaw that, if authorized by a sign posted by the municipality, a
person may park a cycle or motorcycle within 6 m of the approach side
of a crosswalk or within 6 m on the approach to a flashing beacon,
stop sign or traffic control signal if the cycle or motorcycle is




(a)

of a size that, and




(b)

parked so that


the cycle or motorcycle does not obstruct a motorist's view of the
crosswalk, flashing beacon, stop sign, traffic control signal or an
intersection.




(3.1)

If a municipality enacts a bylaw referred to in subsection (3), or a
treaty first nation or a Nisg̱a'a Government enacts a law having the
same effect, a person may park a cycle or motorcycle in accordance
with the bylaw or law.




(4)

Subsection (1) (j) does not apply to a person acting under and in
accordance with an authorization given under section 62 (2) or (6) of
the

Transportation Act

.






Manner of parking




190


Except when a municipality, a treaty first nation, the Nisg̱a'a Nation,
a Nisg̱a'a Village or the minister responsible for the administration
of the

Transportation Act

permits, a driver must not stop, stand or park a vehicle on a roadway
other than on the right side of the roadway and with the right hand
wheels parallel to that side, and where there is a curb, within
30 cm of the curb.






Leaving parked vehicle




191

(1)


A motor vehicle must be equipped with a lock or other device to
prevent the unauthorized use of the motor vehicle.




(2)

A driver must not permit a motor vehicle to stand unattended or parked
unless the driver has




(a)

locked it or made it secure in a manner that prevents its unauthorized
use, and




(b)

if the motor vehicle is standing on a grade, turned the front wheels
of the vehicle to the curb or side of the highway.






Parking on private property




192

(1)


If a motor vehicle or trailer is left without the occupier's consent
on private property in a municipality, treaty lands or Nisg̱a'a Lands
or for a period exceeding 72 hours on private property not in a
municipality, treaty lands or Nisg̱a'a Lands, the owner of the motor
vehicle or trailer is deemed to have authorized and empowered the
occupier to be the owner's agent for the purpose of towing it to a
place of storage and of storing it.




(2)

The agent has a lien against the motor vehicle or trailer for all
reasonable advances made or charges incurred in connection with the
towing and storing of it in the course of the agency.




(3)

The procedure respecting enforcement of the lien must be governed by
the

Warehouse Lien Act

.






Caution in backing vehicle




193


The driver of a vehicle must not cause the vehicle to move backwards
into an intersection or over a crosswalk, and must not in any event or
at any place cause a vehicle to move backwards unless the movement can
be made in safety.






Motorcycles




194

(1)


A person must not operate a motorcycle on a highway unless seated
astride the driver's seat of the motorcycle.




(2)

A person, other than the operator, must not ride on a motorcycle on a
highway unless




(a)

the motorcycle is designed and equipped to carry more than one person,




(b)

the other person rides




(i)

astride the permanent and regular seat if designed for 2 persons,
behind the operator,




(ii)

astride another seat firmly attached to the motorcycle behind the seat
occupied by the operator, or




(iii)

on or in another seat firmly attached to one side of the motorcycle,
and




(c)

in the case of paragraph (b) (i) or (ii), the other person has both
feet positioned on the foot pegs or floorboards of the motorcycle.




(3)

A person must not operate or ride as a passenger on a motorcycle on a
highway if the person is not wearing a motorcycle safety helmet that




(a)

is designated in regulations under subsection (6) (a) as an approved
motorcycle safety helmet, or




(b)

meets the standards and specifications prescribed under subsection (6)
(b).




(4)

A person who is operating a motorcycle must not permit another person
under the age of 16 to ride on the motorcycle in contravention of




(a)

subsection (2), or




(b)

subsection (3).




(5)

Despite subsections (2) and (3), a person under the age of 16 who
contravenes subsection (2) or (3) does not commit an offence.




(6)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations as follows:




(a)

designating a helmet as an approved motorcycle safety helmet for the
purposes of this section;




(b)

prescribing standards and specifications for motorcycle safety
helmets;




(c)

exempting a person or class of persons from the requirements of
subsection (3) and setting out conditions for the exemption.




(7)

Without limiting section 210 (7), regulations under subsection (6) of
this section may incorporate by reference, with or without
modification, in whole or in part, a standard or specification or an
approval, certification or designation associated with a standard or
specification of or published by a national or international standards
association, as amended from time to time before or after the making
of the regulation.




(8)

Without a warrant, a peace officer may




(a)

demand that a person produce a motorcycle safety helmet to allow the
peace officer to determine whether the motorcycle safety helmet
complies with subsection (3), and




(b)

seize the motorcycle safety helmet if, on production of the motorcycle
safety helmet, the peace officer has reasonable grounds to believe
that a person has contravened subsection (3) or (4).




(9)

A person commits an offence if the person obstructs or attempts to
obstruct a peace officer acting under the authority of subsection (8).




(10)

Except when overtaking and passing other motorcycles, more than 2
operators of motorcycles must not operate their motorcycles side by
side in the same direction in the same traffic lane.






Requirements for moving vehicle




195

(1)


A person must not cause a vehicle to move on a highway if




(a)

the control of the driver over the driving mechanism of the vehicle,
or




(b)

the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle

is obstructed.



(2)

A passenger in a vehicle must not occupy a position in it that
interferes with the driver's view ahead or with the driver's control
over the driving mechanisms of the vehicle.






Travelling through canyons




196


When travelling through defiles or canyons or on mountain highways,
the driver of a motor vehicle must hold the motor vehicle under
control and as near the right hand edge of the highway as reasonably
possible, and on approaching a curve where the view is obstructed
within a distance of 60 m along the highway, must give audible
warning with the horn of the motor vehicle.






Coasting down grade




197


When travelling down grade a driver must not coast with the gears of
the vehicle in neutral or the clutch disengaged.






Following fire vehicle




198


A driver other than that of an emergency vehicle must not follow fire
apparatus closer than 150 m or drive or park within 150 m of the
place on the same highway on which fire apparatus has stopped in
answer to a fire alarm.






Driving over fire hose




199


Unless the person has received consent of the fire department official
in command or a peace officer, a person must not drive a vehicle over
an unprotected hose of a fire department when laid down on a highway
or private driveway at a fire or an alarm of fire.






Driving on sidewalk




200


A driver must not drive on a sidewalk, walkway or boulevard, except
when entering or leaving a driveway or lane or when entering or
leaving land adjacent to a highway, or by permission granted under a
bylaw made under section 124.






Sign as evidence




201


The existence of a sign permitted by this Act and purporting to
regulate the use of the highway in any manner is evidence the sign was
duly erected and maintained by the proper authority under this Act and
in accordance with this Act and the regulations.






Repealed




202


[Repealed 2003-96-55.]






When opening door prohibited




203

(1)


A person must not open the door of a motor vehicle on the side
available to moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to
do so.




(2)

A person must not leave a door open on the side of a vehicle available
to moving traffic for longer than is necessary to load or unload
passengers.






Depositing articles on highway




204

(1)


A person must not throw, deposit, drop or leave on a highway a glass
bottle, glass, nail, tack, wire, can or other thing or substance
likely to injure a person, animal or vehicle on the highway.




(2)

A person must not place, deposit or dump, or cause to be placed,
deposited or dumped, garbage, swill, cans, bottles, papers, ashes,
refuse, the carcass of a dead animal, offal, trash, rubbish or a
noisome, nauseous or offensive matter in or on a highway, including a
portion of the right of way of it.




(3)

A person must not place, deposit or dump, or cause to be placed,
deposited or dumped, rocks or dirt in or on a highway, including a
portion of the right of way of it, without the consent of the party
with jurisdiction over the highway at issue, which may be




(a)

the minister charged with the administration of the

Transportation Act

,




(b)

the council of a municipality,




(c)

the governing body of a treaty first nation,




(d)

a Nisg̱a'a Government, or




(e)

a person authorized by a person or body referred to in paragraph (a),
(b), (c) or (d) who has jurisdiction over that highway.






Repealed




205


[Repealed 2006-15-28.]






Transporting explosives




206

(1)


A person operating a vehicle transporting explosive cargo on a highway
must at all times comply with this section.




(2)

[Repealed 2000-9-36.]




(3)

Every vehicle transporting explosives must be equipped with not less
than 2 fire extinguishers, filled and ready for immediate use, and
placed at a convenient point on the vehicle.




(4)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations governing the
transportation of explosives and other dangerous articles by vehicles
on the highways.






Warning devices




207

(1)


For the purpose of this section,
"darkness"
means the period from 1/2 hour after sunset to 1/2 hour before sunrise
and any other occasion when there is not sufficient light to render
clearly discernible a substantial object on the highway at a distance
of 60 m, and
"daylight"
means the balance of the 24 hour day.




(2)

A person must not drive or operate on a highway a motor home licensed
under this Act, or a commercial vehicle or combination of vehicles
licensed under the

Commercial Transport Act

, that has a seating capacity of more than 10 passengers or where the
overall width of the vehicle and the vehicle's load or the combination
of vehicles' and the vehicle's load exceeds 2.3 m, unless there
is carried in the driver's compartment of the vehicle, in a readily
accessible location, warning devices




(a)

of a type approved by the director to warn the travelling public of an
emergency breakdown during darkness, and




(b)

at least 2 red flags, of a minimum size of 30 x 30 cm, or 2 warning
devices of a type approved by the director, for a warning during
daylight.




(3)

Every operator of a vehicle of a type referred to in subsection (2),
when the vehicle becomes and so long as it remains disabled on a
public highway




(a)

during daylight, must place and retain 2 red flags or 2 warning
devices of a type approved by the director on the highway, one at a
distance of approximately 30 m in front of the vehicle and one at
a distance of approximately 30 m behind the vehicle, and




(b)

during darkness, must place and retain 2 approved warning devices
appropriate for use during darkness, as provided in subsection (2), on
the highway at the same distance in front and behind the vehicle as
under paragraph (a).






Winter tires and traction devices




208

(1)


For the purpose of this section,
"winter tire"
means a tire that meets the standards and specifications prescribed
for winter tires.




(2)

The minister responsible for the administration of the

Transportation Act

may, by public notice or by placing signs, prohibit any vehicle or a
class of vehicles from being driven or operated on a highway, unless
the vehicle is equipped with chains, winter tires or traction devices,
or a combination of these, that the minister responsible for the
administration of the

Transportation Act

considers adequate in view of prevailing road conditions.




(3)

A public notice or sign under subsection (2) may provide differently
in relation to specified dates, prevailing weather conditions or any
other criteria the minister responsible for the administration of the

Transportation Act

considers necessary or advisable.




(4)

A person who drives or operates a vehicle in contravention of a
prohibition made under subsection (2) commits an offence.






Regulations respecting highways




209

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council, on the recommendation of the
minister responsible for the administration of the

Transportation Act

, may make regulations in respect of vehicles driven, used or operated
on, and pedestrians using, highways in rural area or arterial
highways, within the meaning of the

Transportation Act

, in a municipality, deemed necessary or advisable for




(a)

regulating, in respect of a highway or class of highways, the speed of
vehicles for the protection of the highway; the gross weight of
vehicle or loads; the weight on an axle, tire or wheel; the number of
axles or wheels; the wheel base, width, length and height of vehicles;
the width, length, height and distribution of loads; the kind, width,
size and inflation of tire; and the system of load suspension, either
separately or in relation to any or all of the other matters
enumerated in this paragraph, and either generally or in respect of
the time of the year and the physical condition of the highway;




(b)

regulating the use of chains, studs, cleats, ribs, clamps, flanges or
other traction devices on the tires of vehicles;




(b.1)

prescribing standards and specifications for winter tires;




(b.2)

regulating types of chains or other traction devices;




(c)

prescribing the lights to be carried and displayed on vehicles other
than motor vehicles and trailers;




(d)

regulating, for a designated highway or class of highway, the speed of
vehicles for the time of the year and the physical condition of the
highway;




(e)

regulating the gauge or width of vehicles from centre to centre of
runners or wheels;




(f)

regulating or prohibiting the parking or standing of vehicles on a
highway, and providing for the display of additional warning signs or
lights in defined cases in respect of vehicles on a highway;




(g)

providing for the marking on a portion of a highway distinguishing
lines to guide traffic, and prescribing the type of marking and the
rule of the road with respect to it;




(h)

providing for the designation of highways on which vehicles must,
during all or certain named hours of the day, proceed in one
direction, and for making those highways with conspicuous signs or
signals to indicate the rule and the direction the vehicles must
proceed;




(i)

providing for and compelling the weighing of vehicles and their loads
and the furnishing of satisfactory evidence of their weight, and the
removal from a vehicle of a load or part of it that is found to be in
excess of the weight prescribed by the regulations and for the
redistribution of the load;




(j)

establishing, for a designated highway, pedestrian crossings for the
use of pedestrians;




(k)

prescribing the manner in which a pedestrian crossing must be marked
on a highway and in which signs or notices must be erected on a
highway to indicate to the drivers of motor vehicles that they are
approaching a pedestrian crossing;




(l)

prescribing the use of a pedestrian crossing by pedestrians, and
regulating pedestrian traffic on a crossing;




(m)

prohibiting pedestrians from crossing designated portions of a highway
except at a pedestrian crossing;




(n)

prescribing penalties for the enforcement of a regulation made under
this section;




(o)

prohibiting the use of or presence on a designated highway, or part of
it, by or of a designated animal or vehicle, or species or type of
them, or by or of pedestrians, either at all times or at designated
times;




(p)

providing for the use of traffic control devices on a highway where
the highway is intersected by a private road as defined in section 2
(1);




(q)

providing for high occupancy vehicle lanes and bus lanes and the use
and occupation of those lanes by prescribed motor vehicles or classes
of motor vehicles or by prescribed devices or classes of devices, and
allowing, prohibiting or restricting the use of high occupancy vehicle
lanes and bus lanes in prescribed circumstances.




(1.1)

Without limiting section 210 (7), a regulation under subsection (1)
(b.1) of this section may incorporate by reference, with or without
modification, in whole or in part, a standard or specification or an
approval, certification or designation associated with a standard or
specification of or published by a national or international industry
association, as amended from time to time before or after the
regulation is made.




(2)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council, on the recommendation of the
minister responsible for the administration of the

Transportation Act

, may make regulations providing for




(a)

the erection and maintenance on highways of signs and guide posts
approved by the minister responsible for the administration of the

Transportation Act

;




(b)

the preservation of signs and guide posts erected on highways;




(c)

the granting of permits by the minister responsible for the
administration of the

Transportation Act

, in the minister's discretion subject to the conditions the minister
prescribes, for the erection and maintenance of cattle guards, fences
and gates across highways;




(d)

the granting of permits or authorizations by the minister responsible
for the administration of the

Transportation Act

, in the minister's discretion, or subject to conditions that may be
prescribed, for the doing of anything that is under the

Commercial Transport Act

, the

Transportation Act

or this Act prohibited or made unlawful without a permit or
authorization;




(e)

forms, including forms in electronic format;




(f)

fees for anything done or permitted to be done under the regulations;




(g)

the designing, manufacture and location of traffic control devices and
determining the instructions given by them;




(h)

parking zones for persons with disabilities, including providing for a
system of permits for those parking zones.




(i)

[Repealed 2003-11-14.]




(3)

[Repealed 2009-23-2.]






Ministerial regulations




209.1

(1)


The minister may make regulations as follows:




(a)

allowing, regulating, restricting or prohibiting the use of, access to
or egress from designated use highways or designated use lanes
generally or by persons, organizations, vehicles or cycles or classes
of persons, organizations, vehicles or cycles;




(b)

respecting the use of, access to or egress from designated use
highways or designated use lanes by persons, organizations, vehicles
or cycles, or classes of persons, organizations, vehicles or cycles or
vehicles referred to in paragraph (a);




(c)

respecting authorizations to use a designated use highway or
designated use lane, and applicable terms and conditions for those
authorizations;




(d)

respecting the designation, qualifications, authority and duties of
traffic control persons.




(2)

Classes of vehicles or cycles prescribed under subsection (1) may be
based on ownership, use, nature, type, character, size or weight of or
equipment or accessories in or on vehicles or cycles, or any other
criteria that the minister otherwise considers necessary or advisable.




(3)

Without limiting subsection (1), a regulation under that subsection
may




(a)

provide differently for different cases or classes of cases, different
persons, organizations, vehicles or cycles or classes of persons,
organizations, vehicles or cycles,




(b)

exempt from its application, in whole or in part or otherwise in
accordance with its terms, persons, organizations, vehicles, cycles or
classes of persons, organizations, vehicles or cycles,




(c)

provide differently in relation to periods of time, hours of the day,
days of the week, specified dates and any other criteria the minister
considers necessary or advisable,




(d)

delegate a matter to a person or to a class of persons, and




(e)

confer a discretion on a person or on a class of persons.






Power to make regulations




210

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
section 41 of the

Interpretation Act

.




(2)

Without limiting any provision of this Act, the Lieutenant Governor in
Council may make regulations as follows:




(a)

prescribing the equipment required for vehicles and providing for the
inspection, testing, adjustment, display and use of that equipment;




(a.1)

prescribing classes of devices or vehicles for the purposes of the
definitions of "industrial utility vehicle" and "mobile equipment",
respectively;




(a.11)

prescribing

Criminal Code

offences for the purposes of the definition of "motor vehicle related

Criminal Code

offence", including, without limitation,




(i)

prescribing offences by reference to the date on or the period within
which the offence was committed, and




(ii)

prescribing different offences or classes of offences for the purposes
of that definition as it applies to different provisions of this Act;




(a.2)

prescribing classes of vehicles for the purposes of section 3.1 (1)
(c);




(a.3)

respecting the use and operation of




(i)

mobile equipment, and




(ii)

vehicles to which section 3.1 applies;




(a.4)

respecting insurance for vehicles to which section 3.1 applies,
including regulations specifying the minimum amount of insurance
required;




(b)

regulating or prohibiting the use on a highway of a vehicle or class
of vehicles that may be a hazard to other users by reason of unusual
size, weight or operating characteristics;




(c)

respecting the training of drivers of motor vehicles and the persons
and organizations engaged in the training of drivers of motor
vehicles, including, without limitation, regulations that do either or
both of the following:




(i)

confer a discretion on the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia;




(ii)

delegate a matter to the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia;




(d)

preventing the making of excessive noise by motor vehicles, setting
maximum noise levels and preventing the sale, distribution or use in
British Columbia of a vehicle or vehicle engine not designed,
manufactured or equipped so that those levels will not be exceeded;




(e)

classifying motor vehicles according to their estimated safe carrying
capacity, prescribing the maximum load of goods or passengers that may
be carried by the respective classes and prescribing safety standards
for the carriage of passengers on certain classes of commercial motor
vehicles;




(f)

regulating the repairing of motor vehicles on highways;




(g)

providing for the carrying of licences on motor vehicles;




(h)

prohibiting the operation of a motor vehicle or trailer where a peace
officer has reasonable and probable grounds to believe that, because
of a mechanical, structural or other defect, it is unsafe for use on a
highway;




(i)

providing for the transfer of licences from one holder to another and
from one motor vehicle or trailer to another;




(j)

providing for the grant of a permit for the temporary operation on a
highway of a motor vehicle or trailer, with or without load, without
the necessity of its being registered or licensed under this Act;




(k)

prescribing




(i)

classes of vehicles for which a licence may be issued for a term of
less than 12 months, and




(ii)

the duration of licences for particular classes of those vehicles;




(k.001)

respecting classes of persons that are included in the definition of
"resident of British Columbia" for the purposes of section
24.1 (1) (b);




(k.002)

respecting addresses for the purposes of section
25 (1.1) (a);




(k.01)

prescribing drugs for the purposes of sections 25 (10.101) and
90.3 (2.1) (b);




(k.1)

respecting the conditions or circumstances for the purposes of
section 25.2;




(k.2)

identifying medical conditions that the superintendent must take into
account when specifying a program referred to in section 25.2 or that
exempt a person from having to participate in the ignition interlock
program under section 25.2, and respecting the evidence to be provided
to establish the medical conditions;




(k.3)

respecting whether a person must attend or participate in one or more
of the programs referred to in section 25.2;




(k.4)

respecting the date by which or a period of time during which a person
must complete a program referred to in section 25.2 and the
circumstances in or reasons for which the superintendent is required
to extend, change or cancel the date or period of time;




(k.5)

prescribing fees or categories of fees that must be paid to the
government by an individual who is required to attend or participate
in a remedial program or ignition interlock program;




(k.6)

respecting circumstances in which the corporation may cancel a
driver's licence for the purposes of section 26.1 (2.2) (b);




(l)

prescribing surcharges payable for licences issued under section 60
(3) or classes of those licences and, for the purpose of section 62
(2) (b), determining the amount of the licence fees;




(l.1)

prescribing documents or classes of documents for the purposes of the
definition of "technical materials" in section 94.5 (5) (c);




(m)

prescribing fees and remission of fees for anything done or permitted
to be done under the regulations;




(n)

prescribing the method of determining any fact necessary to compute
any fee payable under this Act, and the person or official by whom the
fact must be determined;




(o)

providing for the keeping of a record in all motor vehicle repair
shops and garages of repairs made to the body, hood, radiator,
fenders, running board or wheels of any motor vehicle, and for the
giving of notices and the supplying of information to any police
officer or constable respecting those repairs so made, including
notices of motor vehicles on which marks are found that in any way
resemble bullet marks or blood stains;




(p)

prescribing with respect to motor vehicles or a class of motor
vehicles that are let for hire without drivers that the motor vehicles
must be equipped with approved automatic speed controls or governors
that will prevent them from being driven or operated at a greater rate
of speed than 60 km/h;




(q)

regulating the construction, equipment and operation on a highway of
buses, school buses and taxis and authorizing the director




(i)

to grant, on conditions required by the director, a permit for the
operation of a motor vehicle as a bus, school bus or taxi, and




(ii)

to cancel or suspend a permit for the operation of a motor vehicle as
a bus, school bus or taxi;




(r)

respecting the manner in which records or their contents may be kept
by the corporation, the director or the superintendent;




(s)

regulating, in respect of a highway or class of highways, the
fastening of loads and every aspect of the capability of a vehicle to
retain or contain its load;




(t)

establishing the minimum clearance from the surface of a level roadway
that is required of a vehicle, or of a part of a vehicle, operated on
a highway;




(u)

exempting a person or class of persons, in respect of the issue of a
class of driver's licence, from a requirement under this Act to




(i)

pay a fee or a class of fee,




(ii)

undergo testing or a class of testing, or




(iii)

have a minimum amount of driving experience, minimum driving skills or
other qualifications,

if the person



(iv)

is not a Canadian citizen or a permanent resident of Canada as defined
in the

Immigration and Refugee Protection Act

(Canada), and




(v)

is a foreign representative or the spouse or a dependent of a foreign
representative who has been granted privileges, immunities or benefits
under the

Foreign Missions and International Organizations Act

(Canada) that have not been withdrawn;




(v)

setting out circumstances when an exemption referred to in paragraph
(u) does not apply to a person or class of persons referred to in that
paragraph;




(w)

specifying programs and circumstances for the purposes of
section 34 (1.1) (d) (ii) and prescribing classes
of persons for the purposes of section 34 (1.1) (d) (iii);




(x)

exempting the following persons, in the circumstances set out in the
regulation, from holding a subsisting licence of a class of drivers'
licences appropriate to the category of motor vehicle driven by the
person, or from any requirement, restriction or condition prescribed
under section 23 or 25 in respect of the person's driver's licence:




(i)

any peace officer;




(ii)

any person employed by the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia
as an examiner of drivers;




(y)

defining any word or expression used but not defined in this Act.




(2.1) and (2.2)

[Repealed 2015-13-20.]




(2.3)

A regulation under subsection (2) (u) may




(a)

confer a discretion on the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia,
or




(b)

delegate a matter to the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia.




(3)

Without limiting any provision of this Act, the Lieutenant Governor in
Council may make regulations as follows:




(a)

providing that, despite this Act, the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia must issue only one distinctive number plate for a motor
vehicle for which a licence is issued under section 3, and the
display of that single number plate in the manner prescribed by the
regulations is sufficient compliance for all purposes with every
provision of this Act requiring the display of 2 number plates, and
every reference in this Act to the 2 number plates mentioned in
section 3 is deemed to be a reference to one number plate, and
making similar provisions in respect of demonstration number plates
referred to in section 38, and making incidental provisions
necessitated by the substitution of one number plate for 2;




(a.1)

for the purposes of sections 12 and 51 (2), respecting validation
decals, including prescribing the circumstances in which the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia may




(i)

issue validation decals for a period that is longer than the term of a
licence in respect of a motor vehicle or trailer,




(ii)

issue non-expiring validation decals, or




(iii)

instead of issuing validation decals, issue a prescribed document or
take a prescribed action respecting the validity of a licence;




(a.2)

for the purposes of documents or actions prescribed under section 12
(2) (c),




(i)

respecting the display and possession of the documents, and




(ii)

respecting requirements in relation to the actions;




(a.3)

providing that a contravention of a regulation made under paragraph
(a.2) constitutes an offence and that a person who commits an offence
under that regulation is liable to a penalty not greater than the
penalties provided under the

Offence Act

;




(b)

requiring that the name and address of the owner or operator, the type
of vehicle licence and the capacity or licensed gross vehicle weight
be identified on a motor vehicle in the prescribed manner or that any
other means of identification be used in conjunction with number
plates;




(c)

providing for issuing duplicate and interim vehicle licences;




(d)

providing that the superintendent may, subject to the requirements and
approvals required by the

Information Management Act

, dispose by destruction or otherwise of the documents deposited in
connection with the records and administration of the
Motor Vehicle Act
that are not considered of sufficient value to justify their
preservation and have been on deposit for 5 years or longer;




(e)

providing for the furnishing of security by dealers in amounts, in a
form and on conditions that are considered necessary to secure the
honest and lawful conduct by dealers and their salespersons of the
business of dealers in motor vehicles and trailers;




(f)

the licensing of the drivers of taxis kept or operated in rural area;




(g)

the establishment and administration of a point system in respect of
the driving record of drivers committing




(i)

prescribed offences, or




(ii)

contraventions of traffic rules under this Act;




(h)

prescribing penalties for unsatisfactory driving records or in
relation to the number of point penalties recorded against the driving
record;




(i)

prescribing the standards required for safety helmets that are sold,
offered for sale, exposed or displayed for sale, or delivered to a
purchaser for use;




(j)

providing for the safety, protection, comfort and convenience of
persons travelling in buses and taxis;




(k)

providing for the conduct of drivers and passengers travelling on
buses;




(l)

providing for




(i)

grants to be paid to a class of driver or owner of a vehicle to
encourage and reward the safe operation of vehicles on the highway,
and




(ii)

the amount and conditions of payment, class of drivers or vehicles and
any other matter relating to fair and orderly payment;




(m)

prescribing fees for registration, licences, number plates, decals,
permits, certificates, identification cards and other documents and
things required or authorized under this Act;




(n)

empowering a person employed by a prescribed ministry, designated by
name or position, to exercise the powers and perform the duties of a
constable or peace officer for the purpose of enforcing prescribed
provisions of this Act, the

Commercial Transport Act

, the

Transportation Act

, the

Passenger Transportation Act

, the

Motor Fuel Tax Act

and the

Transport of Dangerous Goods Act

, and regulations made under any of them;




(n.1)

empowering a person employed by the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia, designated by name or position, to exercise the powers and
perform the duties of a constable or peace officer for the purpose of
enforcing prescribed provisions of this Act and prescribed provisions
of regulations made under this Act;




(o)

empowering the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia or the
director in prescribed circumstances or for prescribed purposes to




(i)

exempt unconditionally, or on conditions the corporation or the
director considers desirable, persons, vehicles and equipment that the
corporation or the director identifies and specifies from any
requirement of this Act or the regulations respecting the construction
or operation of motor vehicles, or the equipment used on motor
vehicles, and




(ii)

substitute, if the corporation or the director considers it desirable
for the purpose of more effectively promoting and securing road
safety, other requirements in a case in which the corporation or the
director grants an exemption under subparagraph (i);




(p)

respecting identification cards for persons, whether or not they hold
licences under this Act, including, without limitation, the
requirements and conditions that must be met by an applicant for an
identification card or by the holder of an identification card and the
cancellation of cards, with power to delegate a matter or confer a
discretion relating to the issue, cancellation and form of
identification cards;




(q)

respecting the circumstances in which and the conditions on which a
driver of an emergency vehicle may exercise the privileges granted by
section 122 (1);




(r)

prescribing records that the director must keep and of which the
director has custody and control for the purposes of section 82
(10.1);




(r.1)

prescribing enactments in relation to parking for the purposes of
section 83 (2.1);




(s)

prescribing records kept by the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia that are needed by the director to compile information and
profiles for the purposes of section 116.1 (3) (b);




(t)

permitting the director to share information and profiles compiled
under section 212 with prescribed governments or agencies for the
purposes of road safety.




(3.1)

Without limiting any provision of this Act, the Lieutenant Governor in
Council may make regulations as follows:




(a)

prescribing the form and content of the notice of driving prohibition
for the purpose of section 94.1;




(b) and (c)

[Repealed 2002-25-60.]




(d)

prescribing application and hearing fees for the purposes of section
94.4;




(e) and (f)

[Repealed 2002-25-60.]




(g) and (h)

[Repealed 2010-14-15.]




(i)

[Repealed 2002-25-60.]




(j)

[Not in force. Repealed 2006-33-1.]




(k) and (l)

[Repealed 2002-25-60.]




(m) to (q)

[Repealed 2010-14-15.]




(r)

prescribing the blood drug concentration for a drug for the purposes
of sections 94.1 (1) (a.1) and 94.6 (1) (a.1) and (2) (a.1) (i);




(s)

prescribing a blood alcohol concentration and a blood drug
concentration for a drug for the purposes of sections
94.1 (1) (a.2) and 94.6 (1) (a.2) and
(2) (a.2) (i) and (ii) (C);




(t)

prescribing documents and information for the purposes of section 94.3
(b) (iii);




(u)

for the purposes of section 94.6 (1) (a.3) (ii) and (2) (a.3) (ii),
prescribing requirements in relation to an evaluating officer who
conducts an evaluation of a person under section
320.28 (2) (a) of the

Criminal Code

, including, without limitation,




(i)

specifying the tests to be conducted and procedures to be followed
during the evaluation, and




(ii)

requiring the evaluating officer to complete a report, in a form
established by the superintendent.




(3.2)

Without limiting any provision of this Act, the Lieutenant Governor in
Council may make regulations in respect of regulated motorized
personal mobility devices, including, without limitation, the
following:




(a)

respecting exceptions to the number of people that may be transported
by or on a regulated motorized personal mobility device for the
purposes of the definition of "regulated motorized personal mobility
device";




(b)

respecting criteria that must be met for a device to qualify as a
regulated motorized personal mobility device for the purposes of the
definition of "regulated motorized personal mobility device";




(c)

[Not in force.]




(d)

respecting requirements in relation to operators of, passengers on and
equipment attached to a regulated motorized personal mobility device
when it is operating on a highway;




(e)

respecting restrictions on what may be attached to or carried on a
regulated motorized personal mobility device when it is operating on a
highway;




(f)

respecting the use and operation of a regulated motorized personal
mobility device on a highway;




(g)

establishing the time of day that a regulated motorized personal
mobility device may be operated on a highway;




(h)

providing that provisions of the
Motor Vehicle Act
apply, in respect of operators or passengers of regulated motorized
personal mobility devices, with the changes the Lieutenant Governor in
Council considers necessary or advisable.




(4)

A regulation under subsection (3) (o) may be general or particular in
its application.




(5)

An exemption or a requirement under subsection (3) (o) is not a
regulation under the

Regulations Act

.




(6)

A regulation under subsection (1), (2) or (3) may




(a)

establish licences for antique motor vehicles, collectors' motor
vehicles or motor vehicles in any other class of motor vehicle defined
in the regulation,




(b)

specify the term of a licence established under paragraph (a),




(c)

provide that a licence established under paragraph (a) and issued for
a motor vehicle may, with the prior approval of the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia, be used for other motor vehicles of
the same class owned by the holder of the licence, and




(d)

provide that different licences under paragraph (a) and different
terms under paragraph (b) apply to different classes of motor vehicle.




(6.01)

A regulation under subsection (3.1) (a) may prescribe different forms
and content of the notice of driving prohibition in respect of driving
prohibitions resulting from different circumstances.




(6.1)

A regulation under subsection (3.1) (d) of this section or section
215.51 (d) or 268 (b) may prescribe different hearing fees for
different types of hearings.




(6.2)

A regulation under subsection (3.1) (t) may prescribe different
documents and information in respect of driving prohibitions resulting
from different circumstances.




(7)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council, in making a regulation under this
Act, may incorporate in it by reference any code, standard, rule or
part of them, relating to the subject matter of the Act, as they may
be amended from time to time before or after the making of the
regulation, that the Lieutenant Governor in Council may consider
applicable, and the Lieutenant Governor in Council by regulation may
exempt any person or motor vehicle in British Columbia from the
regulation.




(8)

If a code, standard, rule or part of it is adopted by regulation,
publication in the Gazette of a notice of the adoption that refers to
the code, standard or rule states the extent of its adoption and sets
out the variations to which the adoption is subject, is sufficient
publication without publishing in the Gazette the text of the code,
standard, rule or part adopted.




(9)

A regulation or approval made under this section, section 216, 217,
218, 268 (a) or (c) or 269, or Part 13 may




(a)

classify vehicles, devices, cycles or mobile equipment according to
their use, ownership, nature, type, character, size, weight,
equipment, accessories or otherwise,




(b)

provide differently for different cases or classes of cases, different
vehicles, devices, cycles, mobile equipment, persons or organizations
or different classes of vehicles, devices, cycles, mobile equipment,
persons or organizations, and




(c)

exempt from its application, in whole or in part, vehicles, devices,
cycles, mobile equipment, persons or organizations, or classes of
vehicles, devices, cycles, mobile equipment, persons or organizations.




(10)

A person empowered under subsection (3) (n) has, in connection with
the powers and duties conferred on the person, the immunities of a
constable.




(11)

Without limiting the authority of the Lieutenant Governor in Council
to make regulations under another provision of this Act, the
Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations respecting any
matter for which regulations of the Lieutenant Governor in Council are
contemplated by this Act.






Power to establish forms




211


The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia, the director and the
superintendent may establish forms, including forms in an electronic
format, to be used for the purposes of carrying out the powers, duties
and functions under this Act or any other enactment.






Power to prescribe for electronic information




211.1


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations respecting the
electronic reception, creation, completion, signing, identifying,
transmission, storage or reproduction of a certificate under
section 83.2 or for the conversion of a certificate from either
paper or electronic format to the other format.






Regulations respecting safety




212

(1)


In this section and in sections 212.1 and 212.2,
"carrier"
has the prescribed meaning.




(2)

Nothing in this section limits or is limited by any other provision of
this Act.




(3)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations considered
necessary or desirable for the purpose of promoting and securing road
safety.




(4)

Without limiting subsection (3), it is declared that the powers under
that subsection include the power to make regulations as follows:




(a)

adopting with or without modification any or all of the provisions of
any code or regulation respecting road safety as they may be amended
from time to time before or after the making of the regulation,
including, without limiting this, any National Safety Code for motor
carriers promulgated or recommended by the Canadian Council of Motor
Transport Administrators;




(b)

prohibiting the use on highways of any motor vehicle falling within a
prescribed class of motor vehicle unless the owner or other prescribed
person having use or possession of the vehicle holds in respect of it
a subsisting safety certificate issued by the director;




(c)

respecting safety certificates and authorizing and empowering the
director to issue them subject to conditions that may include
requirements for entry on property by the director and inspection by
the director of records respecting motor vehicles;




(d)

authorizing and empowering the director to monitor the safety records
of motor vehicles and of drivers and carriers, including monitoring
the frequency and kinds of warnings or notices given to drivers and
carriers by the director, the superintendent, police officers and
other officials having duties respecting road safety;




(e)

authorizing and empowering the director to compile information and
profiles of motor vehicles, drivers and carriers, including
information and profiles respecting their compliance with the
requirements of this Act and the regulations, with the requirements of
other enactments of British Columbia respecting motor vehicles or road
safety, and with the requirements of enactments of other jurisdictions
both in Canada and elsewhere;




(f)

for the purpose of assisting the director to carry out the director's
duties and exercise the director's powers under this section,
requiring drivers and carriers and other prescribed persons having use
or possession of motor vehicles




(i)

to keep prescribed records, including but not limited to safety
records and records respecting the use, condition and maintenance of
those motor vehicles while they are inside or outside British
Columbia, and




(ii)

to produce or deliver those records to the director on demand and in
the manner and time and to the location specified by the director;




(f.1)

providing for inspection and audit of the records referred to in
paragraph (f);




(g)

requiring the inspection of motor vehicles before, during and after
prescribed journeys or at prescribed intervals or in prescribed
circumstances;




(h)

restricting the number of hours during which a driver may operate a
motor vehicle in any one day or in any consecutive 7-day period, and
prescribing minimum rest periods during which a driver may not operate
a motor vehicle, including different requirements respecting different
classes of motor vehicle;




(i)

authorizing the minister to enter into agreements and arrangements
with any other government in or outside Canada on matters respecting
road safety, including agreements and arrangements providing for
cooperation with respect to any matter within this section, and
providing for mutual reliance, for the purposes of prohibiting the use
of motor vehicles, restricting the use of motor vehicles, revoking
safety certificates, imposing restrictions on drivers and carriers,
refusing to license persons as drivers or carriers and prohibiting
persons from driving, on information or profiles made available by one
government to the other.




(j)

[Repealed 2003-11-18.]




(5)

If any or all of the provisions of a code or regulation are adopted
under this section, publication in the Gazette of a notice of adoption
identifying the code or regulation, stating where copies of the code
or regulation can be obtained, the extent of its adoption and setting
out any modifications subject to which it is adopted, for the purposes
of the

Regulations Act

, is deemed sufficient publication without publishing in the Gazette
the text of the code or regulation or part adopted.




(6)

A regulation made under this section may be general or particular in
its application.






Carrier's duty to provide information




212.1

(1)


A carrier must, in the manner prescribed, provide to the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia all information it requires relevant
to insurance issues, including specific answers to all questions it
submits.




(1.1)

A carrier must, in the manner prescribed, provide to the director all
information the director requires relevant to safety issues, including
specific answers to all questions the director submits.




(2)

A carrier who receives from the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia or the director any form of return with directions to fill it
out must properly fill it out and answer fully and correctly each
question contained in it, and must deliver it to the corporation or
the director within the time, in the manner and to the location
prescribed.




(3)

When required by the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia or the
director, a carrier must deliver to the corporation or the director,
within the time, in the manner and to the location prescribed, all
records in the carrier's possession or control in any way relating to
the carrier's property or service or affecting the carrier's business,
or copies of those records.






Regulations respecting vehicles having safety certificates




212.2

(1)


Without limiting sections 210 and 212, the Lieutenant Governor in
Council may make regulations for promoting and securing the safety of
motor vehicles for which safety certificates are required under this
Act and the safety and protection of the passengers, animals and cargo
carried in or on those vehicles.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations respecting the following:




(a)

the filing with the director of prescribed records and information in
the manner and time prescribed;




(b)

fees to be paid for any filing required under this Act;




(c)

the maximum number of passengers or the maximum weight of freight, or
both, that may be carried by motor vehicles;




(d)

the conditions to be contained in and to become part of all agreements
entered into by carriers in respect of their services or in respect of
any class of service;




(e)

the conduct of drivers and passengers;




(f)

the inspection of motor vehicles and of their operation;




(g)

bills of lading;




(h)

restrictions as to use of motor vehicles;




(i)

the carrying of passengers and freight in or on motor vehicles;




(j)

the equipment of motor vehicles.






Evidence of weight of vehicle or load




213

(1)


On the prosecution of a person charged with contravention of the
regulations in operating or using on a highway a vehicle the weight of
which or the weight of the load carried on which was in excess of the
weight prescribed by the regulations, it is sufficient evidence for a
credible witness to state on oath that, to the best of the witness's
judgment and opinion, the weight of the vehicle or of the load carried
on it at the time of the alleged contravention was in excess of the
weight so prescribed.




(2)

On the evidence described in subsection (1) being given, the person
charged may be convicted, unless that person proves that the weight at
issue was not in excess of the weight prescribed.






Signs




214

(1)


Subject to this section, a person must not erect or maintain, or cause
to be erected or maintained, a sign, advertisement or guide post on or
over




(a)

an arterial highway or a highway in rural area, except with the
approval of the minister responsible for the administration of the

Transportation Act

,




(b)

a highway, other than an arterial highway in a municipality, except in
accordance with the bylaws of the municipality,




(c)

a highway within treaty lands, except in accordance with the laws of
the treaty first nation, or




(d)

a highway within Nisg̱a'a Lands, except in accordance with




(i)

the laws of the applicable Nisg̱a'a Village if the highway is within a
Nisg̱a'a village, or




(ii)

the laws of the Nisg̱a'a Nation if the highway is outside a Nisg̱a'a
village.




(2)

The minister responsible for the administration of the

Transportation Act

may cause a sign, advertisement or guide post erected or found on or
over a highway, whether erected with or without the minister's
approval, to be altered, repainted, torn down or removed from the
highway without compensation to any person for loss or damage
resulting from the alteration, removal or destruction.




(3)

Except as provided in subsection (2), a person must not tear down,
remove, displace, deface or in any way interfere with a traffic
control device or guide post erected on a highway by or with the
approval of the ministry of the minister responsible for the
administration of the

Transportation Act

.




(4)

A person must not erect or replace signs or sign boards, and must not
paste or paint signs, notices or advertising devices, within a
distance of 300 m from the boundary line of a highway in the rural
area of British Columbia.




(5)

A person, who is the owner, occupier or lessee of land, must not
permit or allow the erection or maintenance of a sign, sign board or
advertising device on the land owned, occupied or leased by the person
if the sign, sign board or advertising device is erected or maintained
within a distance of 300 m from the boundary line of a highway in
the rural area of British Columbia, except with the approval of the
minister responsible for the administration of the

Transportation Act

or a person authorized by the minister in writing.




Part 3.1 — Use of Electronic Devices while Driving





Definitions




214.1


In this Part:



"electronic device"

means




(a)

a hand-held cellular telephone or another hand-held electronic device
that includes a telephone function,




(b)

a hand-held electronic device that is capable of transmitting or
receiving electronic mail or other text-based messages, or




(c)

a prescribed class or type of electronic device;


"use"
, in relation to an electronic device, means one or more of the
following actions:




(a)

holding the device in a position in which it may be used;




(b)

operating one or more of the device's functions;




(c)

communicating orally by means of the device with another person or
another device;




(d)

taking another action that is set out in the regulations by means of,
with or in relation to an electronic device.






Prohibition against use of electronic device while driving




214.2

(1)


A person must not use an electronic device while driving or operating
a motor vehicle on a highway.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), a person must not communicate by
means of an electronic device with another person or another device by
electronic mail or other text-based message.






Exceptions to prohibition — emergency personnel




214.3


Section 214.2 does not apply to the following persons who use an
electronic device while carrying out their powers, duties or
functions:




(a)

a peace officer;




(b)

a person driving or operating an ambulance as defined in the

Emergency Health Services Act

;




(c)

fire services personnel as defined in the

Fire Services Act

.






Exceptions to prohibition — certain permitted activities




214.4


Section 214.2 does not apply to a person who uses an electronic device




(a)

while operating a motor vehicle that is safely parked off the roadway
or lawfully parked on the roadway and is not impeding traffic, or




(b)

to call or send a message to a police force, fire department or
ambulance service about an emergency.




(c)

[Repealed 2020-9-18.]






Exceptions to prohibition — certain permitted activities by persons
with full licence




214.41

(1)


Subject to subsection (2) of this section, section 214.2 does not
apply to a person who uses an electronic device that is




(a)

configured and equipped to allow hands-free use in a telephone
function,




(b)

used in a hands-free manner, and




(c)

used in accordance with the regulations, if any.




(2)

The exception in subsection (1) does not apply to a person operating a
motor vehicle under a Class 7 or Class 7L licence.






Exceptions to prohibition — by regulation




214.5


Section 214.2 does not apply to




(a)

a prescribed class of persons who, while carrying out their powers,
duties or functions and driving or operating a motor vehicle or a
prescribed class of motor vehicle, use an electronic device or a
prescribed class or type of electronic device,




(b)

a person who uses an electronic device while engaged in a prescribed
activity or in circumstances or under conditions set out in the
regulations, or




(c)

a person who uses a prescribed class or type of electronic device.






Power to make regulations




214.6


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations as follows:




(a)

prescribing classes or types of electronic devices for the purposes of
paragraph (c) of the definition of "electronic device" in section
214.1;




(b)

setting out actions for the purposes of paragraph (d) of the
definition of "use" in section 214.1;




(c)

for the purposes of section 214.4 (c), setting out the manner in
which, or the extent to which, a hands-free electronic device may be
used in a telephone function;




(d)

for the purposes of section 214.5;




(e)

regulating the installation or mounting of classes or types of
electronic devices in motor vehicles;




(f)

exempting or excluding, with or without conditions, classes or types
of electronic devices, classes of persons or classes of vehicles or
classes of persons while driving or operating a motor vehicle or class
of motor vehicle from the operation of a provision of this Part.




Part 4





24-hour prohibition




215

(1)


In this section:



"approved screening device"

means a device prescribed by the Lieutenant Governor in Council for
the purposes of this section;


"driver"
includes a person having the care or control of a motor vehicle on a
highway or industrial road whether or not the motor vehicle is in
motion.




(2)

A peace officer may, at any time or place on a highway or industrial
road if the peace officer has reasonable grounds to believe that a
driver's ability to drive a motor vehicle is affected by alcohol,




(a)

request the driver to drive the motor vehicle, under the direction of
the peace officer, to the nearest place off the travelled portion of
the highway or industrial road,




(b)

serve the driver with a notice of driving prohibition, and




(c)

if the driver is in possession of a driver's licence, request the
driver to surrender that licence.




(3)

A peace officer may, at any time or place on a highway or industrial
road if the peace officer has reasonable grounds to believe that a
driver's ability to drive a motor vehicle is affected by a drug, other
than alcohol,




(a)

request the driver to drive the motor vehicle, under the direction of
the peace officer, to the nearest place off the travelled portion of
the highway or industrial road,




(b)

serve the driver with a notice of driving prohibition, and




(c)

if the driver is in possession of a driver's licence, request the
driver to surrender that licence.




(4)

If a peace officer requests a driver to surrender their driver's
licence under this section, the driver must forthwith surrender to the
peace officer their driver's licence issued under this Act or any
document issued in another jurisdiction that allows the driver to
drive or operate a motor vehicle.




(5)

Unless the prohibition from driving a motor vehicle is terminated
under subsection (6) or (8), the driver is automatically prohibited
from driving a motor vehicle for a period of 24 hours from the time
the peace officer served the driver with a notice of driving
prohibition under subsection (2) or (3).




(6)

If a driver, who is served with a notice of driving prohibition under
subsection (2), forthwith requests a peace officer to administer and
does undergo as soon as practicable a test that indicates that the
driver's blood alcohol level does not exceed 50 mg of alcohol in 100
mL of blood, the prohibition from driving is terminated.




(6.1)

A test referred to in subsection (6) may be performed with an approved
screening device.




(6.2)

Despite subsection (6), a driver who is served with a notice of
driving prohibition does not have a right to request or undergo a test
under subsection (6) if




(a)

the peace officer who served the notice first performed a test of the
driver's blood alcohol level with an approved screening device,




(b)

the test indicated that the driver's blood alcohol level exceeded 50
mg of alcohol in 100mL of blood, and




(c)

the peace officer used the results of the test as part of the basis on
which the peace officer formed reasonable grounds to believe that the
driver's ability to drive a motor vehicle was affected by alcohol.




(7)

[Repealed 2004-68-18.]




(8)

If a driver who is served with a notice of driving prohibition under
subsection (3)




(a)

forthwith requests a peace officer to administer and does undergo as
soon as practicable a prescribed physical coordination test, and




(b)

satisfies a peace officer having charge of the matter that the
driver's ability to drive a motor vehicle is not affected by a drug
other than alcohol,

the prohibition from driving is terminated.



(8.1)

Despite subsection (8), a driver who is served with a notice of
driving prohibition does not have a right to request or undergo a test
under subsection (8) (a) if




(a)

the peace officer who served the notice first administered a
prescribed physical coordination test, and




(b)

the peace officer used the results of the test as part of the basis on
which the peace officer formed reasonable grounds to believe that the
driver's ability to drive a motor vehicle was affected by a drug other
than alcohol.




(9)

A peace officer acting under subsection (2) need not hold the opinion
that the blood alcohol level of the driver exceeds 50 mg of alcohol in
100 mL of blood.





(
10
)



If a peace officer serves a notice of driving prohibition under
subsection (2) (b) or (3) (b), the peace officer
must promptly forward to the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia






(
a
)



a certificate of service, showing that the notice of driving
prohibition was personally served on the person subject to the
driving prohibition,






(
b
)



a copy of the notice of driving prohibition, and






(
c
)


a report of the driving prohibition.




(11)

The report referred to in subsection (10) must be in a form
established by the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia.




(12)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may prescribe an approved screening
device and physical coordination tests for the purposes of this
section.






Review of driving prohibition




215.1

(1)


A person may, within the prescribed number of days after being served
with a notice of driving prohibition under section 215 (2) or (3),
apply to the superintendent for a review of the driving prohibition by




(a)

filing an application for review with the superintendent, and




(b)

paying to the superintendent the application fee prescribed by the
Lieutenant Governor in Council.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may prescribe the number of days, which number must not be less than
7, within which a person may apply for a review of a driving
prohibition.




(3)

An application for review must be in the form, contain the information
and be completed in the manner required by the superintendent.




(4)

An applicant may attach to the application for review any written
statements or other evidence that the applicant wishes the
superintendent to consider.




(5)

The superintendent must conduct a review under this section on the
basis of written submissions and must not hold an oral hearing.






Considerations




215.2


In a review of a driving prohibition under section 215.1, the
superintendent may only consider




(a)

the report of the prohibition delivered under section 215 (10) and
other relevant information provided by the peace officer with the
report, and




(b)

relevant information provided by the person on whom the notice of
driving prohibition was served.






Decision of the superintendent




215.3

(1)


The burden of proof in a review of a driving prohibition under section
215.1 is on the person on whom the notice of driving prohibition was
served.




(2)

If, after considering an application for review under section 215.1,
the superintendent is satisfied by the person that




(a)

in the case of a notice of driving prohibition served under
section 215 (2) (b), the person on whom the notice was
served had the right to request and did request that the peace officer
administer a test to indicate the person's blood alcohol level but the
peace officer failed to provide the person with the opportunity to
undergo the test,




(a.1)

in the case of a notice of driving prohibition served under
section 215 (3) (b), the person on whom the notice was
served had the right to request and did request that the peace office
administer a physical coordination test but the peace officer failed
to provide the person with the opportunity to undergo the test, or




(b)

the person was not a driver within the meaning of section 215 (1),


the superintendent must revoke the driving prohibition.






24-hour impoundment of motor vehicle




215.4

(1)


If a peace officer serves a driver with a notice of driving
prohibition under section 215 (2) or (3), the peace
officer may, if the peace officer believes that impoundment is
necessary to prevent the driver from driving or operating the motor
vehicle before the prohibition expires, immediately cause the motor
vehicle that the driver was operating or of which the driver had care
or control to be taken to a place directed by the peace officer and
impounded there for a period of 24 hours.




(2)

If a peace officer is satisfied that the impoundment of a motor
vehicle under subsection (1) would




(a)

jeopardize the safety of the occupants of the motor vehicle, or




(b)

leave the occupants stranded,


the peace officer must arrange for transportation of the occupants of
the motor vehicle to the nearest safe area where they can summon an
alternative form of transportation.




(3)

The owner or driver of a motor vehicle that is impounded under
subsection (1) may remove any cargo or other personal property that is
in or on the motor vehicle.




(4)

If a motor vehicle is impounded under subsection (1), the peace
officer must take all reasonable steps to notify the owner of the
motor vehicle.




(5)

A person must not remove or permit the removal of a motor vehicle from
the place where it is impounded under subsection (1) before the end of
the 24 hour period unless the person is authorized to do so by a peace
officer or a court.




(6)

All the costs and charges for towing, care and storage of a motor
vehicle impounded under subsection (1) are a lien on the motor
vehicle, and the lien may be enforced in the manner provided under the

Warehouse Lien Act

.






Immediate roadside driving prohibition




215.41

(1)


In this section,
"driver"
includes a person having the care or control of a motor vehicle on a
highway or industrial road whether or not the motor vehicle is in
motion.




(2)

In this section and in sections 215.42, 215.43, 215.47, 215.49 and
215.5:



"approved screening device"

means a device prescribed by the Lieutenant Governor in Council for
the purposes of this section;


"fail"
means an indication on an approved screening device that the
concentration of alcohol in a person's blood is not less than 80
milligrams of alcohol in 100 millilitres of blood;


"warn"
means an indication on an approved screening device that the
concentration of alcohol in a person's blood is not less than 50
milligrams of alcohol in 100 millilitres of blood.




(3)

[Repealed 2012-26-1.]




(3.1)

If, at any time or place on a highway or industrial road,




(a)

a peace officer makes a demand to a driver under the

Criminal Code

to provide a sample of breath for analysis by means of an approved
screening device and the approved screening device registers a warn or
a fail, and




(b)

the peace officer has reasonable grounds to believe, as a result of
the analysis, that the driver's ability to drive is affected by
alcohol,


the peace officer, or another peace officer, must,




(c)

if the driver holds a valid licence or permit issued under this Act,
or a document issued in another jurisdiction that allows the driver to
operate a motor vehicle, take possession of the driver's licence,
permit or document if the driver has it in the driver's possession,
and




(d)

subject to section 215.42, serve on the driver a notice of driving
prohibition.




(4)

If a peace officer has reasonable grounds to believe that a driver
failed or refused, without reasonable excuse, to comply with a demand
made under the

Criminal Code

to provide a sample of breath for analysis by means of an approved
screening device, the peace officer, or another peace officer, must
take those actions described in subsection (3.1) (c) and
(d).




(5)

If the driver is not in possession of the driver's licence or permit
issued under this Act to operate a motor vehicle at the time the
driver is served with the notice of driving prohibition, the driver
must promptly send the licence or permit to the Insurance Corporation
of British Columbia.




(6)

The notice of driving prohibition must be in the prescribed form and
must contain the following:




(a)

a statement that the driver is immediately prohibited from driving,
for the period set out in the notice of prohibition;




(b)

a statement setting out




(i)

the amount of any monetary penalty imposed on the driver under
section 215.44, and




(ii)

the requirement that the monetary penalty be paid no later than
30 days after the date the notice is served;




(c)

a statement of the right to have the driving prohibition reviewed by
the superintendent under section 215.48;




(d)

instructions describing how to apply for that review.




(7)

A notice of driving prohibition must not be served on a person under
this section if a notice of driving prohibition is served on the
person under section 94.1.






Right to second analysis




215.42

(1)


If an analysis of the breath of a person by means of an approved
screening device under section 215.41 (3.1) registers a warn or a
fail,




(a)

the person has a right to forthwith request and be provided with a
second analysis, and




(b)

a peace officer must inform the person of that right before the peace
officer serves on the person a notice of driving prohibition.




(2)

A second analysis performed under this section must be performed with
a different approved screening device than was used in the first
analysis.




(3)

If a person provides a sample of breath for a second analysis in
accordance with this section, the lower of the first and second
analysis results governs for the purposes of section 215.41 (3.1).






Effect of driving prohibition under section 215.41




215.43

(1)


If a person is served with a notice of driving prohibition under
section 215.41 in circumstances where an approved screening device
registers a warn, the person is prohibited from driving for




(a)

3 days, in the case of a first prohibition,




(b)

7 days, in the case of a second prohibition, or




(c)

30 days, in the case of a subsequent prohibition.




(2)

[Repealed 2012-26-3.]




(2.1)

If a person is served with a notice of driving prohibition under
section 215.41 in circumstances where




(a)

an approved screening device registers a fail, or




(b)

the person refuses or fails to comply with a demand as described in
section 215.41 (4),


the person is prohibited from driving for a period of 90 days.




(3)

A driving prohibition under this section




(a)

takes effect immediately on service of the notice of driving
prohibition under section 215.41, and




(b)

unless revoked under this Act, continues in effect until the end of
the last day of the driving prohibition as calculated in accordance
with subsection (3.1).




(3.1)

Despite subsection (3) (a), the last day of a driving prohibition must
be calculated so that the period of days specified by this section for
the driving prohibition is in addition to the day on which the notice
of driving prohibition under section 215.41 is served.




(4)

For the purposes of subsection (1), a prohibition is




(a)

a first prohibition if a person has not been subject to a previous
prohibition under that subsection within the 5 year period preceding
the prohibition,




(b)

a second prohibition if a person has been subject to one previous
prohibition under that subsection within the 5 year period preceding
the prohibition, and




(c)

a subsequent prohibition if the person has been subject to 2 or more
previous prohibitions under that subsection within the 5 year period
preceding the prohibition.




(5)

For the purposes of determining whether a prohibition is a second or
subsequent prohibition, the prohibition must not be considered to be a
previous prohibition unless




(a)

the period for requesting a review of the prohibition under section
215.48 has expired, or




(b)

if the person requests a review of the prohibition, the period
referred to under section 215.5 (6) or (7), as applicable, has
expired.






Additional consequences — monetary penalty




215.44

(1)


A person who has been served with a notice of driving prohibition
under section 215.41 is also liable to pay, no later than 30 days
after the date the notice is served, a monetary penalty in the amount
prescribed by regulation.




(2)

The monetary penalty must not exceed the amount prescribed by
regulation, and in any event must not exceed $500.






Repealed




215.45


[Repealed 2015-13-25.]






Additional consequences — impoundment of vehicle




215.46

(1)


If a peace officer serves a person with a notice of a 3-day or 7-day
driving prohibition under section 215.41 (3.1) and believes that
impoundment of the motor vehicle that the person was driving or
operating at the time the notice was served is necessary to prevent
the person from driving or operating the motor vehicle before the
prohibition expires, the peace officer may cause the motor vehicle to
be taken to and impounded at a place directed by the peace officer.




(2)

If a peace officer serves a person with a notice of a 30-day or 90-day
driving prohibition under section 215.41, the peace officer must cause
the motor vehicle that the person was driving or operating at the time
the notice was served to be taken to and impounded at a place directed
by the peace officer.






Duties of peace officer related to driving prohibition under section
215.41




215.47


A peace officer who serves a notice of driving prohibition on a person
under section 215.41 must promptly forward to the superintendent




(a)

the person's licence or permit or any document issued in another
jurisdiction that allows the person to operate a motor vehicle, if the
peace officer took the licence, permit or document into possession,




(b)

a copy of the notice of driving prohibition,




(c)

a certificate of service, in the form established by the
superintendent, showing that the notice of driving prohibition was
personally served on the person subject to the driving prohibition,




(d)

a report, in the form established by the superintendent, sworn or
solemnly affirmed by the peace officer, and




(e)

in the case of a driving prohibition resulting from the analysis of a
sample of breath, information relating to the calibration of the
approved screening device on the basis of which the notice of driving
prohibition was served.






Review of driving prohibition under section 215.41




215.48

(1)


A person may, within 7 days of being served with a notice of driving
prohibition under section 215.41, apply to the superintendent for a
review of the driving prohibition by




(a)

filing an application for review with the superintendent,




(b)

paying to the superintendent the prescribed hearing fee, and




(c)

if it has not been taken by the peace officer or sent to the
superintendent under section 215.41, surrendering to the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia the person's licence or permit to
operate a motor vehicle unless the person completes and files with the
superintendent a statutory declaration stating that the licence or
permit has been lost, stolen or destroyed.




(2)

An application for review must be in the form, contain the information
and be completed in the manner required by the superintendent.




(3)

An applicant may attach to the application for review any statements
or other evidence that the applicant wishes the superintendent to
consider.




(4)

The filing of an application for review does not stay the driving
prohibition.




(5)

The superintendent is not required to hold an oral hearing unless




(a)

the driving prohibition is for 30 or 90 days, and




(b)

the applicant




(i)

requests an oral hearing at the time of filing the application for
review, and




(ii)

pays the prescribed oral hearing fees.




(6)

If a person requests an oral hearing and fails to appear on the date
and at the time and place arranged for the hearing, without prior
notice to the superintendent, the right to an oral hearing is deemed
to have been waived by the person.




(7)

Despite sections 215.49 and 215.5, if




(a)

a person applies for a review of a driving prohibition under
subsection (1) of this section in accordance with subsection (2), and




(b)

by the end of the period of time specified in subsection (1), the
superintendent has not received the sworn or solemnly affirmed report
required to be forwarded under section 215.47 (d),

the superintendent must



(c)

revoke the driving prohibition,




(d)

cancel the monetary penalty for which the person would otherwise be
liable under section 215.44 and, in respect of any impoundment,
section 253 (8) applies,




(e)

if the person held a valid licence or permit issued under this Act to
operate a motor vehicle at the time the notice of driving prohibition
was served under section 215.41, direct the Insurance Corporation
of British Columbia to return any licence or permit to operate a motor
vehicle taken into possession by the peace officer or sent to the
corporation, and




(f)

give the person notice of the matters referred to in paragraphs (b) to
(e).






Considerations on review under section 215.48




215.49

(1)


In a review of a driving prohibition under section 215.48, the
superintendent must consider




(a)

any relevant statements and evidence submitted to the superintendent,




(b)

the report of the peace officer forwarded under section 215.47 (d),




(c)

a copy of the notice of driving prohibition,




(d)

any other relevant documents and information forwarded to the
superintendent by the peace officer who served the notice of driving
prohibition or any other peace officer, including peace officers'
reports that have not been sworn or solemnly affirmed,




(e)

in the case of an oral hearing, any relevant evidence given or
representations made at the hearing, and




(f)

in the case of a second or subsequent prohibition, as described in
section 215.43 (4) and (5), the person's driving
record.




(2)

In a review under section 215.48, no person may be cross examined.




(3)

Despite subsection (1) but subject to section 215.48 (7), the
superintendent may, in the superintendent's discretion, proceed with a
hearing and render a decision whether or not the superintendent has
received all those documents required to be forwarded to the
superintendent under section 215.47.




(4)

The superintendent may determine the weight to be given to any
document or other information referred to in subsection (1) or (5),
including any document or information that is not sworn or solemnly
affirmed.




(5)

In a review of a driving prohibition under section 215.48, the
superintendent may, on the superintendent's own initiative, consider
any statements, evidence, technical materials and other records and
information, that, in the opinion of the superintendent, may assist
the superintendent in making a decision.




(6)

In subsection (5),
"technical materials"
means technical, medical or scientific evidence or information and
includes




(a)

manuals and training materials relating to, and documents provided by
the manufacturer of, an approved screening device,




(b)

summaries of technical, medical or scientific evidence or information
that are prepared by the superintendent, and




(c)

documents that are prescribed or in a prescribed class of documents.






Decision of superintendent after review under section 215.48




215.5

(1)


The burden of proof in a review of a driving prohibition under section
215.48 is on the person on whom the notice of driving prohibition was
served.




(2)

Subject to subsection (4), if, after considering an application for
review under section 215.48, the superintendent is satisfied by
the person that,




(a)

in the case of a 7-day driving prohibition, the prohibition was a
first prohibition, or




(b)

in the case of a 30-day driving prohibition, the prohibition was
either




(i)

a first prohibition, or




(ii)

a second prohibition,

the superintendent must



(c)

substitute




(i)

a 3-day driving prohibition, in the circumstances described in
paragraph (a) or (b) (i), or




(ii)

a 7-day driving prohibition, in the circumstances described in
paragraph (b) (ii), and




(d)

vary accordingly the monetary penalty for which the person is liable
under section 215.44 and, in respect of any impoundment, section
253 (8) applies.




(3)

[Repealed 2012-26-7.]




(4)

If, after considering an application for review under section 215.48,
the superintendent is satisfied by the person that the person was not
a driver within the meaning of section 215.41 (1) or is
satisfied by the person that,




(a)

in respect of a 3-day, 7-day or 30-day driving prohibition,




(i)

the person was not advised of the person's right to forthwith request
and be provided with a second analysis under section 215.42 (1),




(ii)

the second analysis, if the person requested a second analysis, was
not provided or not performed with a different approved screening
device than was used in the first analysis or the notice of driving
prohibition was not served on the basis of the lower analysis result,




(iii)

the approved screening device did not register a warn or the approved
screening device did not register the warn as a result of the
concentration of alcohol in the person's blood being not less than
50 milligrams of alcohol in 100 millilitres of blood, or




(iv)

the result of the analysis on the basis of which the notice of driving
prohibition was served was not reliable,




(b)

in respect of a 90-day driving prohibition resulting from a sample of
breath for analysis by means of an approved screening device and the
approved screening device registering a fail,




(i)

the person was not advised of the person's right to forthwith request
and be provided with a second analysis under section 215.42 (1),




(ii)

the second analysis, if the person requested a second analysis, was
not provided or not performed with a different approved screening
device than was used in the first analysis and the notice of driving
prohibition was not served on the person on the basis of the lower
analysis result,




(iii)

the approved screening device did not register a fail or the approved
screening device did not register the fail as a result of the
concentration of alcohol in the person's blood being not less than
80 milligrams of alcohol in 100 millilitres of blood, or




(iv)

the result of the analysis on the basis of which the notice of driving
prohibition was served was not reliable, or




(c)

in respect of a 90-day driving prohibition resulting from a failure or
refusal, without reasonable excuse, to comply with a demand described
in section 215.41 (4), the person did not fail or refuse or
had a reasonable excuse for failing or refusing to comply with the
demand,

the superintendent must



(d)

revoke the driving prohibition,




(e)

cancel the monetary penalty for which the person would otherwise be
liable under section 215.44 and, in respect of any impoundment,
section 253 (8) applies, and




(f)

if the person held a valid licence or permit issued under this Act to
operate a motor vehicle at the time the notice of driving prohibition
was served under section 215.41, direct the Insurance Corporation
of British Columbia to return any licence or permit to operate a motor
vehicle taken into possession by the peace officer or sent to the
corporation.




(5)

[Repealed 2012-26-7.]




(6)

Subject to subsection (7), the decision of the superintendent and the
reasons for the decision must be in writing and a copy must be sent to
the applicant within 21 days of the date the notice of driving
prohibition was served on the applicant under section 215.41.




(7)

If the superintendent is unable to send the decision to the applicant
within the 21 day period set out in subsection (6), the superintendent
may extend that period for a period determined by the superintendent.




(8)

If the superintendent extends the period for sending a decision to the
applicant under subsection (7), the superintendent may




(a)

stay the driving prohibition imposed on the applicant under section
215.43 for the period of the extension determined under subsection
(7), and




(b)

if the applicant held a valid licence or permit issued under this Act
to operate a motor vehicle at the time the applicant was served with
the notice of driving prohibition under section 215.41, direct the
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia to issue to the applicant a
temporary driver's licence that expires with the period of extension
determined under subsection (7).




(9)

The superintendent must promptly give the person notice of an
extension made under subsection (7).




(10)

The copy referred to in subsection (6) and the notice referred to in
subsection (9) must be sent to the person




(a)

at the last known address of the person as shown in the records
maintained by the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia, or




(b)

at the address shown in the application for review, if that address is
different from the address in the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia's records.




(11)

A notice of extension given under subsection (9) is deemed to be a
notice of prohibition for the purposes of section 95 (4) (a) or (b).






Regulations — immediate roadside driving prohibitions




215.51


Without limiting the authority of the Lieutenant Governor in Council
to make regulations under any other provision of this Act, the
Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations as follows:




(a)

prescribing an approved screening device for the purposes of the
definition of "approved screening device" in section 215.41 (2);




(b)

prescribing the form of notice of driving prohibition for the purposes
of section 215.41 (6);




(c)

for the purposes of section 215.44,




(i)

prescribing monetary penalties, including prescribing a schedule of
increasing monetary penalties based on whether a driving prohibition
is a first, second or subsequent prohibition as described in section
215.43 (4), and




(ii)

prescribing the manner for payment of monetary penalties;




(d)

prescribing hearing fees, including oral hearing fees, for the
purposes of section 215.48;




(e)

[Not in force.]




(f)

prescribing documents or classes of documents for the purposes of the
definition of "technical materials" in section 215.49 (6).






Vehicle inspections




216

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations as follows:




(a)

requiring the inspection as to safety, emissions and repair of
prescribed classes of vehicles and may provide differently for
different




(i)

types of inspections,




(ii)

classes of vehicles, and




(iii)

areas of British Columbia;




(b)

providing for notification by the director or a peace officer to the
owner or operator of a vehicle of a prescribed class requiring the
owner or operator, within the period set out in the notification, to
present the vehicle for inspection at a facility, or any one of a
class of facilities, designated in the notification;




(c)

providing for the duties and responsibilities of persons who are
authorized under section 217 and of operators of facilities that
are designated under that section respecting inspections of vehicles;




(c.1)

prescribing grounds for which the director can cancel an authorization
or designation granted to a person under section 217 (1) (a) or (b)
respecting inspection of vehicles;




(d)

prescribing the form and period of validity of an inspection
certificate of approval or interim inspection certificate and
requiring a vehicle that has been inspected to bear an inspection
certificate of approval or interim inspection certificate;




(e)

prescribing




(i)

fees or the method of determining the amount of fees payable to the
government in respect of inspections of vehicles and in respect of
applications for and any consultations relating to the issuance of
authorizations, designations and exemptions under section 217,
and




(ii)

charges payable, by persons required to present vehicles for
inspection, to operators, other than the government, of facilities
designated under section 217;




(f)

prohibiting the operation, driving or parking on a highway and
requiring surrender of the vehicle licence and corresponding number
plates of a vehicle that is required to be presented for inspection
and




(i)

is not presented for inspection as required,




(ii)

does not pass inspection, or




(iii)

does not bear a valid inspection certificate of approval or interim
inspection certificate;




(g)

requiring the owners of prescribed classes of vehicles to maintain
their vehicles in accordance with prescribed standards, and
prescribing those standards;




(h)

requiring owners and drivers of prescribed classes of vehicles to keep
records respecting the use and maintenance of the vehicles.




(2)

The minister, for and on behalf of the government, may enter into an
agreement or arrangement with a municipality or treaty first nation to
implement regulations made under subsection (1), and the municipality
or treaty first nation may, by resolution, enter into the agreement or
arrangement.




(3) and (4)

[Not in force.]




(5)

The director or a person empowered to exercise the powers and perform
the duties of a constable or peace officer in regulations made under
section 210 (3) (n) may inspect and audit at reasonable times, on
designated facility premises,




(a)

the premises,




(b)

[Not in force.]




(c)

equipment and reference materials required to be kept under section
217 (2) (c), and




(d)

vehicles that have been inspected by a person authorized under section
217 (1) (a).






Inspectors, inspection facilities and standards




217

(1)


For the purposes of section 216, the director may




(a)

authorize persons to inspect vehicles,




(b)

designate facilities operated by the government or a municipality or
other person as facilities for different classes of inspections, and




(c)

on conditions the Lieutenant Governor in Council requires, exempt a
vehicle from inspection.




(1.1)

The director may do one or both of the following:




(a)

impose conditions on an authorization or designation referred to in
subsection (1) at the time the director makes the authorization or
designation or at another time during which the authorization or
designation is in effect;




(b)

make an authorization or designation referred to in subsection (1)
subject to a specified term.




(2)

For the purposes of section 216, the minister may, by regulation, do
one or more of the following:




(a)

establish standards of, and criteria and guidelines for, inspections
relating to safety and repair for different classes of vehicles;




(b)

prescribe standards of inspections or establish standards of, and
criteria and guidelines for, inspections relating to emissions for
different classes of vehicles;




(c)

set out requirements that must be met or guidelines that must be
followed by the persons who are designated under subsection (1)
relating to maintenance of the facility and equipment and reference
materials that must be kept at a designated facility;




(d)

governing the manner in which persons authorized under subsection (1)
must perform inspections.




(2.1)

In making a regulation under subsection (2), the minister may adopt
with or without modification one or more or a part of the provisions
of a code, standard or rule respecting vehicle safety, emission or
repair, as they may be amended from time to time before or after the
making of the regulation, including, without limiting this, a standard
set by the Canadian Council of Motor Transport Administrators.




(3)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may provide by regulation that




(a)

contravention of




(i)

a regulation of the minister under subsection (2) by a person who is
authorized or designated under subsection (1), or




(ii)

a standard prescribed by the minister under section 218 (2),

constitutes an offence, and



(b)

a person who commits an offence under paragraph (a) is liable to a
penalty not greater than the penalties provided under the

Offence Act

.






Standards and approvals




218

(1)


The director may do one or more of the following:




(a)

designate equipment or classes of equipment for which approval by the
director is required as a condition precedent to the first retail sale
of the equipment;




(b)

approve equipment conforming to the safety or emissions standards
prescribed by the minister under subsection (2).




(c)

[Repealed 2003-11-23.]




(2)

The minister may prescribe safety or emissions standards for a vehicle
or its equipment that is offered for sale, exposed or displayed for
sale, sold or delivered to a purchaser for use.






Driver control programs




218.1


The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia may require drivers of
classes of vehicles prescribed by the minister to participate in
driver control programs.






Equipment of motor vehicles




219

(1)


A person must not drive or operate a motor vehicle or trailer on a
highway or rent a motor vehicle or trailer unless it is equipped in
all respects in compliance with this Act and the regulations.




(2)

A peace officer




(a)

may require a person who carries on the business of renting vehicles
or who is the owner or person in charge of a vehicle




(i)

to allow the peace officer to inspect a vehicle offered by the person
for rental or owned by or in charge of the person, or




(ii)

to move a vehicle described in subparagraph (i) to a place designated
by the peace officer and to allow the vehicle to be inspected there by
the peace officer, or, at the expense of the person required, to
present the vehicle for inspection by a person authorized under
section 217, and




(b)

must remove any inspection certificate of approval affixed to the
vehicle if, in the opinion of the peace officer or a person authorized
under section 217, the vehicle is unsafe for use on a highway.




(3)

An owner of a motor vehicle or trailer must not permit it to be driven
or operated on a highway unless it is equipped in all respects in
compliance with this Act and the regulations.




(4)

In subsection (3),
"owner"
means




(a)

the owner, or




(b)

in the case of a vehicle that is leased for a term of 30 days or
more, the person who leases the vehicle.






Seat belt assembly




220

(1)


In this section,
"seat belt assembly"
means a device or assembly suitably fastened to the motor vehicle
composed of straps, webbing or similar material that restrains the
movement of a person in order to prevent or mitigate injury to the
person and includes a pelvic restraint, an upper torso restraint or
both of them.




(2)

A person must not sell, offer for sale or operate on a highway a motor
vehicle required to be registered and licensed only under this Act and
manufactured or assembled after December 1, 1963, other than
a motorcycle, unless it is equipped with not less than 2 seat belt
assemblies for use in the front seat in accordance with the
regulations.




(3)

A person must not drive or operate a motor vehicle on a highway in
which a seat belt assembly required under this section or the

Motor Vehicle Safety Act

(Canada) at the time the motor vehicle was manufactured, assembled or
imported into Canada has been removed, rendered partly or wholly
inoperative, or modified to reduce its effectiveness.




(4)

A person in a motor vehicle being driven or operated on a highway
must, if the motor vehicle has properly attached to it a seat belt
assembly for the seating position occupied by that person, wear the
complete seat belt assembly in a properly adjusted and securely
fastened manner.




(5)

Subsection (4) does not apply to a person




(a)

driving a motor vehicle in reverse,




(b)

[Repealed 2010-14-20.]




(c)

who is actually engaged in work that requires the person to alight
from and re-enter the motor vehicle at frequent intervals and who,
while engaged in that work, does not drive or travel in that vehicle
at a speed exceeding 40 km/h, or




(d)

under age 16.




(6)

A person must not drive on a highway a motor vehicle in which there is
a passenger who has attained age 6 but is under age 16 and who
occupies a seating position for which a seat belt assembly is provided
unless that passenger is wearing the complete seat belt assembly in a
properly adjusted and securely fastened manner.




(7)

Subsection (6) does not apply if the passenger




(a)

[Repealed 2010-14-20.]




(b)

is actually engaged in work that requires the passenger to alight from
and re-enter the motor vehicle at frequent intervals and the motor
vehicle does not travel at a speed exceeding 40 km/h.




(8)

Despite this section, if a seat belt assembly consists of a pelvic
restraint and a separate upper torso restraint, only the pelvic
restraint need be worn.




(9)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations as follows:




(a)

requiring the use of child seating and restraint systems in motor
vehicles on highways and prescribing the specifications for them;




(b)

defining the age of a child for the purpose of paragraph (a);




(c)

providing for the exemption from any provision of this section of any




(i)

type or class of motor vehicle, and




(ii)

class or group of drivers or passengers in motor vehicles.




(10)

A person who contravenes this section commits an offence.






Repealed




221


[Repealed 2010-14-5.]






Sale of motor vehicle contrary to regulations




222


A person must not sell, offer for sale, expose or display for sale or
deliver over to a purchaser for use a motor vehicle, trailer or
equipment for them that is not in accordance with this Act and the
regulations.






Canada Safety Standards




223

(1)


A manufacturer or distributor of a motor vehicle or trailer
manufactured in British Columbia for sale in British Columbia and a
dealer must not sell, offer for sale, display for sale or deliver over
to a person for use a new motor vehicle or trailer of a class
prescribed by the

Motor Vehicle Safety Act

(Canada) unless the motor vehicle or trailer and its components comply
with safety standards prescribed in the

Motor Vehicle Safety Act

(Canada) and the regulations under it, bear the National Safety Mark
and display the statement of compliance as required by those
regulations.




(2)

A distributor or dealer must not modify or alter a new motor vehicle
or trailer, or exchange components of a new motor vehicle or trailer
of a class for which standards are prescribed, in a manner that the
motor vehicle or trailer does not comply with the safety standards
prescribed in the

Motor Vehicle Safety Act

(Canada) and the regulations made under it.




(3)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations prohibiting




(a)

the installation of components in a motor vehicle or trailer or the
removal or alteration of any components of a motor vehicle or trailer
if the installation, alteration or removal affects or is likely to
affect the functioning of the motor vehicle or trailer so that it no
longer meets the safety standards that were, at the time of its first
retail sale, applicable to it and its components under the

Motor Vehicle Safety Act

(Canada), and




(b)

the operation, driving or parking on a highway of a motor vehicle or
trailer in which a component has been installed or altered or from
which a component has been removed contrary to a regulation made under
paragraph (a).






Repealed




224-229


[Repealed 2020-9-21.]






Report of health professional




230

(1)


This section applies to every legally qualified and registered
psychologist, optometrist, medical practitioner and nurse
practitioner who has a patient 16 years of age or older who




(a)

in the opinion of the psychologist, optometrist, medical practitioner
or nurse practitioner has a medical condition that makes it dangerous
to the patient or to the public for the patient to drive a motor
vehicle, and




(b)

continues to drive a motor vehicle after being warned of the danger by
the psychologist, optometrist, medical practitioner or nurse
practitioner.




(2)

Every psychologist, optometrist, medical practitioner and nurse
practitioner referred to in subsection (1) must report to the
superintendent the name, address and medical condition of a patient
referred to in subsection (1).




(3)

No action for damages lies or may be brought against a psychologist,
an optometrist, a medical practitioner or a nurse practitioner for
making a report under this section, unless the psychologist,
optometrist, medical practitioner or nurse practitioner made the
report falsely and maliciously.






Not in force




231


[Not in force.]






Smoking in motor vehicle prohibited




231.1

(1)


In this section,
"activated e-cigarette"
,
"e-cigarette"
and
"tobacco"
have the same meaning as in the

Tobacco and Vapour Products Control Act

.




(2)

A person must not smoke tobacco, hold lighted tobacco, use an
e-cigarette or hold an activated e-cigarette in a motor vehicle that
is occupied by a person under the age of 16 years, whether or not any
window, sunroof, car-top, door or other feature of the vehicle is
open.




(3)

A person who contravenes subsection (2) commits an offence.




(4)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations exempting any
person or class of persons from the requirements of this section and
prescribing conditions for those exemptions.




Part 5





Suspension on conviction for certain offences




232

(1)


In this section:


"convicted"
includes the granting of an absolute or conditional discharge;



"date of sentencing"

includes




(a)

the date that the passing of sentence is suspended,




(b)

the date that an absolute or a conditional discharge is granted, or




(c)

the date that a court




(i)

imposes a sentence under the

Youth Justice Act

or the

Youth Criminal Justice Act

(Canada), or




(ii)

makes a disposition under the

Young Offenders (British Columbia) Act

, as it read before its repeal by the

Youth Justice Act

, or a disposition under the

Young Offenders Act

(Canada), as it read before its repeal by the

Youth Criminal Justice Act

(Canada).




(2)

If a person is convicted of a motor vehicle related

Criminal Code

offence or under a provision that is enacted by a state of the United
States of America and that is designated by regulation, the person's
driver's licence and the person's right to apply for or obtain a
driver's licence are deemed to be suspended for the period referred to
in subsection (3).




(3)

A suspension under subsection (2) is effective from the date of
sentencing, and is, subject to section 233, effective for the
following period:




(a)

on the first conviction, for one year;




(b)

on the first subsequent conviction, whether or not that conviction is
under the same provision as the conviction referred to in paragraph
(a), for 3 years;




(c)

on the second subsequent conviction or an additional subsequent
conviction, whether or not that conviction is under the same provision
as the convictions referred to in paragraph (a) or (b), indefinitely.




(4)

Subsection (3) applies only if,




(a)

for subsection (3) (a), the conviction is in respect of an offence
committed after the coming into force of this section,




(b)

for subsection (3) (b), the first subsequent conviction is in respect
of an offence committed after the coming into force of this section
and the previous conviction was not more than 5 years before the date
on which this section comes into force, and




(c)

for subsection (3) (c), the second subsequent conviction or the
additional subsequent conviction is in respect of an offence committed
after the coming into force of this section and the previous
convictions were not more than 5 years before the date on which this
section comes into force.




(5)

Subsection (3) (b) and (c) does not apply if the subsequent conviction
is more than 10 years after the previous conviction.




(6)

Despite subsection (3), if the subsequent conviction is within 10
years after the previous conviction, a conviction that preceded the
previous conviction by less than 10 years must be taken into account
for the purpose of subsection (3) (b) and (c).






Reinstatement of suspended licence




233

(1)


[Repealed 2015-13-35.]




(2)

The superintendent must notify the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia of a person's right




(a)

to have the person's suspended driver's licence reinstated or to apply
for a new driver's licence, as the case may be, in the following
circumstances:




(i)

the person's driver's licence is suspended and the person's right to
apply for or obtain a driver's licence is suspended under
section 232 (2) and (3) (a) or (b);




(ii)

the person has




(A)

attended or participated in and completed a program under
section 25.1 to the satisfaction of the superintendent or under
section 25.2 in accordance with the regulations, and




(B)

paid the prescribed fees, or




(b)

to apply for a driver's licence at the end of a suspension period of 5
years in the following circumstances:




(i)

the person's driver's licence is suspended and the person's right to
apply for or obtain a driver's licence is suspended under section 232
(2) and (3) (c);




(ii)

the person has




(A)

attended or participated in and completed a program under
section 25.1 to the satisfaction of the superintendent or under
section 25.2 in accordance with the regulations, and




(B)

paid the prescribed fees.




(3)

If it is, in the superintendent's opinion, in the public interest for
a person in the circumstances referred to in subsection (2) (a) or (b)
to participate in an ignition interlock program specified by the
superintendent, the superintendent may require a statement in,
endorsement on or attachment to the person's driver's licence adding a
condition of the driver's licence that the person participate in and
complete the ignition interlock program, to the satisfaction of the
superintendent.




(3.1)

The fact that a person is required to attend and complete a remedial
program under section 25.2 does not affect the superintendent's power
under subsection (3) in respect of that person.




(4)

The superintendent may




(a)

as part of a condition of a driver's licence under subsection (3),
specify a date by which or a period of time during which the person
must complete the program, and




(b)

at any time extend, change or cancel a date or period of time
specified under paragraph (a).




(5)

[Repealed 2015-13-35.]




(6)

If the superintendent notifies the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia




(a)

under subsection (2) (a), the corporation must,




(i)

on the expiry of the suspension, reinstate the driver's licence if




(A)

the driver's licence has not expired or been cancelled,




(B)

the person is otherwise qualified to hold the licence, and




(C)

there is no other suspension, cancellation or prohibition under this
Act in respect of the driver's licence or the person, or




(ii)

on receipt of the notification, allow the person to apply for a new
driver's licence, subject to any other suspension, cancellation or
prohibition under this Act, or




(b)

under subsection (2) (b), the corporation must, at the expiry of the
suspension period, allow the person to apply for a new driver's
licence, subject to any other suspension, cancellation or prohibition
under this Act.




(7)

The suspension of a person's driver's licence and of the person's
right to apply for or obtain a driver's licence is extended




(a)

if, on the expiry of a suspension under section 232 (2) and (3) (a) or
(b), the person has not




(i)

attended or participated in and completed a program under
section 25.1 to the satisfaction of the superintendent or under
section 25.2 in accordance with the regulations, or




(ii)

paid the prescribed fees, and




(b)

until the person has done the things referred to in paragraph (a).






Driving while suspended




234

(1)


A person, other than a person who is exempted under section 34 (1.1)
from the requirements as to the holding of a driver's licence issued
under this Act while driving or operating a motor vehicle, commits an
offence who drives a motor vehicle on a highway or industrial road
knowing that the person's driver's licence or the person's right to
apply for or obtain a driver's licence is suspended under section 232.




(2)

A person who commits an offence referred to in subsection (1) is
liable,




(a)

on a first conviction, to a fine of not less than $500 and not more
than $2 000 or to imprisonment for not more than 6 months, or to
both, and




(b)

on a subsequent conviction, regardless of when the contravention
occurred, to a fine of not less than $500 and not more than
$2 000 and to imprisonment for not less than 14 days and not more
than one year.




(3)

If a person is charged with an offence under subsection (1), the court
hearing the charge may admit into evidence a certificate of the
superintendent stating the information required by subsection (4) and
if the certificate of the superintendent is admitted into evidence it
is proof that the defendant had knowledge of the suspension in effect
at the time of the alleged offence.




(4)

If a person is charged with an offence under subsection (1), the
certificate referred to in subsection (3) must state that the
suspension was in effect on the date of the alleged offence and that
the records of the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia or the
superintendent, as the case may be,




(a)

show that a notice of the suspension was mailed by registered mail or
certified mail to the person at the person's most recent address
recorded in the records of the corporation and that the corporation or
superintendent subsequently received a copy of a confirmation of
delivery provided by Canada Post showing a recipient's signature that,
from a comparison with the signature on the records of the
corporation, appears to be that of the person to whom the notice of
suspension was sent,




(b)

contain a document that




(i)

indicates that the person so charged




(A)

has acknowledged that the person's driver's licence or the person's
right to apply for or to obtain a driver's licence is suspended,




(B)

has acknowledged having received from the superintendent a notice of
suspension of the person's driver's licence or of the person's right
to apply for or to obtain a driver's licence, or




(C)

has surrendered the person's driver's licence to the superintendent or
the corporation subsequent to receiving from the superintendent a
notice of suspension, and




(ii)

is signed with a signature that, from a comparison with the signature
on the records of the corporation, appears to be that of the person
whose driver's licence or right to apply for or to obtain a driver's
licence is suspended under this Part, or to whom the superintendent
mailed a notice of suspension, or




(c)

contain a certificate of service in the form and with the content
prescribed by the Lieutenant Governor in Council, showing that the
notice of suspension under section 232 was personally served on the
person.




(5)

This section applies to any document contained in the records of the
superintendent or the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia,
whether that document was signed before, on or after the date this
subsection comes into force.






Driver to surrender licence




235


If a person's driver's licence or the person's right to apply for or
obtain a driver's licence is suspended under section 232, the
person must,




(a)

if notified of the suspension by mail, immediately send the person's
driver's licence, or any document issued in another jurisdiction that
allows the person to drive a motor vehicle, to the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia, and




(b)

if notified of the suspension by personal service by a peace officer,
sheriff or person authorized by the superintendent, surrender the
person's driver's licence, or any document issued in another
jurisdiction that allows the person to drive a motor vehicle, to the
serving peace officer, sheriff or person for forwarding to the
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia.






Stay of suspension against driving




236


Section 101 applies to any application for a stay of a suspension
imposed under this Part and for that purpose




(a)

a reference to "prohibition" in section 101 is deemed to be a
reference to a suspension under section 232, and




(b)

a stay ordered in respect of a prohibition under section 101
operates as a stay of a suspension under section 232 and a stay
ordered in respect of a suspension under section 232 operates as
a stay of a prohibition under section 101, for so long as the stay
remains in effect and with like result.




Part 6 — Carriers





Definitions




237


In this Part:



"business vehicle"

means a motor vehicle




(a)

that is operated at any time on a highway by, for or on behalf of any
person who charges or collects compensation for the transportation of
freight in or on the motor vehicle, but only if




(i)

the operation is carried on solely under a limited number of special
or individual contracts or agreements, and




(ii)

the motor vehicle is not available for use by the general public,




(b)

that is operated at any time on a highway for the transportation of
freight, and includes a motor vehicle that is operated for any of the
following purposes:




(i)

transportation of freight that is genuinely the property of the owner
of the motor vehicle;




(ii)

transportation of freight used or subjected to a process or treatment
by the owner of the motor vehicle in the course of a regular trade or
occupation or established business of the owner, when the
transportation is incidental to the owner's trade, occupation or
business;




(iii)

delivery or collection of freight sold or purchased, or agreed to be
sold or purchased, or let on hire by the owner of the motor vehicle,
otherwise than as agent, in the course of a regular trade or
established business of that owner, or




(c)

that is operated at any time on a highway by, for or on behalf of any
person who charges or collects compensation for the transportation of
freight in or on the motor vehicle,


but does not include a motor vehicle operated for hire while used
exclusively in carrying pupils or teachers to or from a school;


"carrier"
has the prescribed meaning;


"freight"
includes personal property of every description that may be conveyed
in or on a motor vehicle or trailer, but does not include a
passenger's personal baggage;



"insurance corporation"

means the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia.






Operating requirements for business vehicles




238

(1)


Except as exempted under this Act, a person must not operate on a
highway a motor vehicle as a business vehicle unless




(a)

a safety certificate has been obtained in respect of the carrier,




(b)

all prescribed documents are carried in the motor vehicle in the
prescribed manner,




(c)

proof of financial responsibility of the owner of the motor vehicle
has been given to the insurance corporation under section 106, or
a motor vehicle liability policy has been issued in respect of the
motor vehicle,




(d)

proof that a cargo insurance policy has been obtained in respect of
the goods being transported in or on the motor vehicle and the proof
has been provided to the insurance corporation in the prescribed
manner, and




(e)

all other prescribed requirements applicable to the operation of the
motor vehicle as a business vehicle have been complied with.




(2)

If authorized to do so by a regulation of the Lieutenant Governor in
Council, the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia may exempt any
person or motor vehicle, or class of persons or motor vehicles, from
the requirements of subsection (1) (c), or may limit or vary the
application of the requirements of subsection (1) (c) in any manner,
and the exemption, limitation or variation is of the same force and
effect as if set out in this Act.




(3)

If authorized to do so by a regulation of the Lieutenant Governor in
Council, the director may exempt any person or motor vehicle, or class
of persons or motor vehicles, from the requirements referred to in
subsection (1) (a), (b), (d) or (e), or may limit or vary the
application of the requirements referred to in subsection (1) (a),
(b), (d) or (e) in any manner, and the exemption, limitation or
variation is of the same force and effect as if set out in this Act.






Power to search business vehicles




239

(1)


A peace officer may, without a warrant, search a business vehicle on a
highway to determine whether this Act and the regulations are being
complied with in the operation of that business vehicle, and for that
purpose may require the driver of the business vehicle to stop the
business vehicle and permit the search to be made.




(2)

The driver or other person in charge of a business vehicle on a
highway who is required by a peace officer, by signals or otherwise,
to stop the business vehicle or to permit it to be searched for the
purposes of this section, and who refuses or fails to stop the
business vehicle or to permit it to be searched, commits an offence
against this Act.






Liability for act or omission of employee




240

(1)


In construing and enforcing this Act or the regulations, the act,
omission or failure of any officer, agent or person acting for or
employed by a carrier, if within the scope of the officer's, agent's
or person's employment, is also deemed to be the act, omission or
failure of the carrier.




(2)

If an officer, agent or person acting for or employed by a carrier,
performs an act or omits or fails to do something and, as a result of
the operation of subsection (1), the carrier is deemed to have
performed an act or omitted or failed to do something that results in
an offence being committed, a ticket, summons or other document served
under the

Offence Act

is deemed to have been served on the carrier if it has been served on
the person who is alleged to have performed the act or omitted or
failed to do something that resulted in an offence being committed.




Part 7





Repealed




241-248


[Repealed 2010-14-14.]




Part 8 — Police Accident Reports





Accident reports by police officer




249

(1)


If




(a)

a vehicle driven or operated on a highway directly or indirectly
causes death or injury to a person or damage to property causing
aggregate damage apparently exceeding a prescribed amount, or




(b)

an accident involving the presence or operation of a cycle on a
highway or a sidewalk directly or indirectly causes death or injury to
a person or damage to property causing aggregate damage apparently
exceeding a prescribed amount,


a police officer who attends the accident must complete a written
report of the accident in the form established by the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia and forward it to the corporation
within 10 days of the accident.




(2)

A person involved in an accident referred to in subsection (1) (a), or
that person's authorized representative, is entitled to obtain on
request the names of any drivers involved, the licence number, the
name of the registered owner of any motor vehicle involved and the
name of any witness.




Part 9 — Motor Vehicle Impoundment





Definitions




250


In this Part:


"impound"
includes to immobilize, in a manner approved by the superintendent, a
motor vehicle at the place referred to in section 215.46 or 251 (1)
(g);



"irreparable vehicle"

means a motor vehicle that has its title transferred, under an
agreement referred to in section 255 (8), to a person who, in
accordance with that agreement, is to transfer the title of the motor
vehicle to a person who is in the business of wrecking used motor
vehicles and who intends to use the motor vehicle for parts or scrap;



"person who has custody"

, when used in reference to a motor vehicle, includes a person who
has, at the direction of a peace officer under section 215.46
or 251 (1) (g), impounded a motor vehicle by immobilizing
it;


"race"
means circumstances in which, taking into account the condition of the
highway, traffic, visibility and weather, the driver or operator of a
motor vehicle is driving or operating the motor vehicle without
reasonable consideration for other persons using the highway or in a
manner that may cause harm to an individual by doing any of the
following:




(a)

outdistancing or attempting to outdistance one or more other motor
vehicles;




(b)

preventing or attempting to prevent one or more other motor vehicles
from passing;




(c)

driving at excessive speed in order to arrive at or attempt to arrive
at a given destination ahead of one or more other motor vehicles;


"stunt"
means circumstances in which, taking into account the condition of the
highway, traffic, visibility and weather, the driver or operator of a
motor vehicle is driving or operating the motor vehicle without
reasonable consideration for other persons using the highway or in a
manner that is likely to cause harm to an individual or likely to
distract, startle or interfere with users of the highway by doing any
of the following:




(a)

causing any or all of the motor vehicle's tires to lift from the road
surface;




(b)

causing the motor vehicle to lose traction while turning the motor
vehicle;




(c)

driving the motor vehicle in a manner to cause the motor vehicle to
spin;




(d)

driving the motor vehicle in a lane intended for oncoming traffic for
longer than necessary to pass another vehicle;




(e)

slowing or stopping the motor vehicle in a manner that prevents other
motor vehicles from passing or in a manner that blocks or impedes
other motor vehicles;




(f)

without justification, driving as close as possible to another motor
vehicle, a pedestrian, or a fixed object.






Impoundment of motor vehicle




251

(1)


If a peace officer has reasonable grounds to believe that a person




(a)

has driven or operated a motor vehicle on a highway while the person
is prohibited from driving a motor vehicle under




(i)

this Act, or




(ii)

the

Youth Justice Act

, the

Youth Criminal Justice Act

(Canada) or the

Criminal Code

,




(b)

has driven or operated a motor vehicle on a highway while the person's
driver's licence and his or her right to apply for or obtain a
driver's licence are suspended under section 89 (1) (b) or (c), 232 or
233,




(c)

has driven or operated a motor vehicle on a highway while




(i)

the person did not hold a subsisting driver's licence issued under
this Act and was not exempt under section 34 from holding a driver's
licence issued under this Act, and




(ii)

a notice under section 252 was in place on the driving record of the
person,




(d)

has committed an offence under section 148,




(e)

has driven or operated a motor vehicle on a highway in a race or in a
stunt and the peace officer intends to charge the person with a motor
vehicle related

Criminal Code

offence or an offence under section 144 (1), 146 or 148 of this Act,
or




(f)

has committed an offence under




(i)

section 194 (1) or (2), or




(ii)

section 25 (15) by violating a requirement, restriction or condition
prescribed under section 25 in relation to a driver's licence that
allows the person to drive or operate a motorcycle, which requirement,
restriction or condition is specified in the regulations for the
purposes of this provision,


the peace officer or another peace officer must




(g)

cause the motor vehicle to be taken to and impounded at a place
directed by the peace officer, and




(h)

if paragraph (c) of this subsection applies, serve on the person a
notice of driving prohibition in the form established by the
superintendent.




(2)

The notice of driving prohibition referred to in subsection (1) (h)
must contain all of the following:




(a)

a statement of the right to have the driving prohibition reviewed by
the superintendent under section 259;




(b)

instructions describing how to apply for that review;




(c)

a statement that unless the person applies for a review under section
259 and the review results in the revocation of a prohibition under
section 261, the person is prohibited from driving until he or she is
issued a driver's licence under this Act.




(3)

A peace officer who serves a notice of driving prohibition under
subsection (1) (h) must promptly forward to the superintendent




(a)

a copy of the notice of driving prohibition, and




(b)

a certificate of service, in the form established by the
superintendent, showing that the notice of driving prohibition was
personally served on the person subject to the prohibition.




(4)

If a person is served with a notice of driving prohibition under
subsection (1) (h), the person is prohibited from driving a motor
vehicle until the person is issued a driver's licence under this Act
or the notice of driving prohibition is revoked under section 261.




(5)

If a peace officer is satisfied that the impoundment of a motor
vehicle under subsection (1) or section 215.46 would




(a)

jeopardize the safety of the occupants of the motor vehicle, or




(b)

leave the occupants stranded,


the peace officer must arrange for transportation of the occupants of
the motor vehicle to the nearest safe area where they can summon an
alternative form of transportation.




(6)

Personal property present in a motor vehicle that has been impounded
under subsection (1) or section 215.46, other than personal
property attached to or used in connection with the operation of the
motor vehicle, must be returned to the owner on request.




(7)

Despite subsection (1) or section 215.46, if, at any time before a
review is conducted under section 256 a peace officer is satisfied
that a motor vehicle impounded under subsection (1) of this section or
section 215.46 is stolen property, the peace officer must




(a)

order the person who has custody of the motor vehicle to release the
motor vehicle to the owner or a person authorized by the owner on
payment by the owner or other person of the fees, costs, charges,
surcharges and the deposit, if applicable, referred to in section 255
(2), and




(b)

promptly give notice to the superintendent of the release of the
impounded motor vehicle.




(8)

If the person who was driving or operating a motor vehicle at the time
the motor vehicle was impounded under subsection (1) or section 215.46
is not the owner of the motor vehicle, the person must make all
reasonable efforts to notify as soon as practicable the owner that the
motor vehicle has been impounded.




(9)

If the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia issues a driver's
licence under this Act to the person who was driving or operating a
motor vehicle at the time the motor vehicle was impounded in
accordance with subsection (1) (c), the superintendent must, if the
fees, costs, charges, surcharges and the deposit, if applicable,
referred to in section 255 (2) have been paid to the person
who has custody of the motor vehicle, order that the motor vehicle be
released to the owner or a person authorized by the owner.






Liability for impoundment




252

(1)


The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia, for the purposes of
motor vehicle impoundments in accordance with section 251 (1) (c) and
driving prohibitions under section 251 (4), must place a notice on the
driving record of the following persons indicating that, if the person
drives or operates a motor vehicle on a highway, the motor vehicle is
liable to be impounded and the person prohibited from driving under
those sections:




(a)

a person who has been convicted of an offence under section 24 (1)
since the expiry or cancellation of the most recent driver's licence
issued to the person under this Act;




(b)

a person who has been convicted of an offence under section 24 (1) and
who has never held a driver's licence under this Act.




(2)

If the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia issues a driver's
licence under this Act to a person referred to in subsection (1) (a)
or (b),




(a)

the corporation must remove a notice placed on the driving record of
the person under subsection (1), and




(b)

the superintendent must terminate any prohibition served under
section 251 (1) (h) as a result of the notice.






Period of impoundment




253

(1)


In this section,
"impounded motor vehicle"
means a motor vehicle that has been impounded by an impoundment




(a)

authorized under any of paragraphs (a) to (f) of section 251 (1), and




(b)

not revoked under section 258,


but does not include a motor vehicle impounded under section 215.46 or
251 (1) that is released under section 251 (7).




(2)

Subject to section 255 (5), a motor vehicle impounded under any of
paragraphs (a) to (f) of section 251 (1) is to remain
impounded for a period of 7 days from the day it is impounded.




(3)

Despite subsection (2) and subject to section 255 (5),




(a)

if the owner of a motor vehicle impounded under any of paragraphs (a)
to (f) of section 251 (1) has once within the 2 years before the date
of the impoundment been the owner of an impounded motor vehicle, the
motor vehicle is to remain impounded for a period of 30 days from the
day it is impounded, and




(b)

if the owner of a motor vehicle impounded under any of paragraphs (a)
to (f) of section 251 (1) has on 2 or more occasions within the 2
years before the date of the impoundment been the owner of an
impounded motor vehicle, the motor vehicle is to remain impounded for
a period of 60 days from the day it is impounded.




(4)

If a motor vehicle is subject to the period of impoundment authorized
under subsection (3) (a) or (b), the superintendent
must give to




(a)

the registered owner of the motor vehicle, and




(b)

the person who has custody of the motor vehicle under the impoundment


notice that, unless the superintendent revokes the impoundment under
section 258, the motor vehicle will not be released until the
expiry of the period of impoundment authorized under subsection (3)
(a) or (b) of this section, as applicable.




(5)

The notice required by subsection (4) (a) must be sent by mail to the
last known address of the registered owner as shown in the records
maintained by the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia.




(6)

Subject to section 255 (5), a motor vehicle impounded under
section 215.46 (1) is to remain impounded for a period equal
to the period that the person referred to in
section 215.46 (1) is prohibited from driving under
section 215.43 (1) (a) or (b).




(7)

Subject to section 255 (5), a motor vehicle impounded under section
215.46 (2) is to remain impounded for a period of 30 days from the day
it is impounded.




(8)

If a driving prohibition is substituted or revoked under section
215.5, the superintendent must,




(a)

in the case of a substitution of a 3-day or 7-day prohibition for a
30-day or 90-day prohibition, revoke the corresponding impoundment
imposed under section 215.46,




(b)

in the case of a substitution of a 3-day prohibition for a 7-day
prohibition, vary to the same extent the corresponding impoundment
imposed under section 215.46, if any, or




(c)

in the case of a revocation, revoke the corresponding impoundment
imposed under section 215.46,


and subject to the lien described in section 255 (2), the expiry of
the period of impoundment in the case of a substitution and the expiry
of another period of impoundment, if any, under section 251 (1), order
the person who has custody of the motor vehicle to release the motor
vehicle to the owner or a person authorized by the owner.






Duties of peace officer




254

(1)


A peace officer who impounds a motor vehicle under section 215.46 or
251 (1) must




(a)

complete a notice of impoundment,




(b)

give a copy of the notice of impoundment to the driver and the person
who has custody of the motor vehicle, and




(c)

forward to the superintendent




(i)

a report, in the form established by the superintendent, and




(ii)

a copy of the notice of impoundment.




(2)

When the superintendent receives a copy of the notice of impoundment
under subsection (1) (c) (ii), the superintendent must promptly send a
copy of that notice by mail to the last known address of the
registered owner of the motor vehicle as shown in the records
maintained by the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia.




(2.1)

Subsection (2) does not apply if




(a)

the driver was the registered owner of the motor vehicle, and




(b)

there is only one registered owner of the motor vehicle.




(3)

The notice of impoundment must contain




(a)

a statement of the right to have the impoundment reviewed by the
superintendent under section 256,




(b)

instructions describing how to apply for that review,




(c)

a statement that unless the owner of the motor vehicle applies for a
review under section 256, the motor vehicle will be impounded for the
period authorized under section 253,




(d)

a statement that the filing of an application for review does not stay
the impoundment of the motor vehicle, and




(e)

a statement that if the owner of the motor vehicle does not pay the
fees, costs, charges, surcharges and the deposit, if applicable,
referred to in section 255 (2), the motor vehicle may be disposed of
under the

Warehouse Lien Act

or under section 255 (7) of this Act.






Storage of impounded motor vehicle




255

(1)


A motor vehicle impounded under section 215.46 or 251 (1) is to be
stored at a place directed by the peace officer.




(2)

The following constitute a lien on the motor vehicle:




(a)

fees, costs, charges and surcharges prescribed by the superintendent
in respect of the transportation, towing, care, storage, disposition
and other related activities respecting the impoundment of the motor
vehicle;




(b)

charges for searches and registrations under the

Personal Property Security Act

that are reasonably necessary to fulfill the obligations of the person
who has custody of the motor vehicle under the impoundment;




(c)

the amount prescribed for a deposit, whether the deposit is paid in
advance or not, for a device used to immobilize a motor vehicle, if
there is damage to the immobilization device at the end of the period
of impoundment.




(3)

The lien described in subsection (2) may be enforced under the

Warehouse Lien Act

or under subsection (7) of this section.




(4)

The person who has custody of a motor vehicle impounded under
section 215.46 or 251 (1) must notify the
superintendent if that motor vehicle is sold under the

Warehouse Lien Act

.




(5)

Subject to sections 251 (7) and (9), 253 (8), 258, 262 and 263 and to
subsection (9) of this section, a motor vehicle impounded under
section 215.46 or 251 (1) must remain impounded until the expiry of
the applicable impoundment period set out in section 253, and for
a further period that expires when




(a)

the lien is paid, if it is paid after the expiry of the applicable
period set out in section 253,




(b)

the date referred to in subsection (6) of this section is reached, if
an agreement referred to in that subsection is in place, or




(c)

the motor vehicle is disposed of




(i)

under the

Warehouse Lien Act

, or




(ii)

under subsection (7) of this section.




(6)

If a person who has custody of a motor vehicle impounded under
section 215.46 or 251 (1) enters into an agreement with
the owner of the motor vehicle respecting the earliest date, after the
applicable impoundment period has expired, before which the person
will not begin to take action to dispose of the motor vehicle under
subsection (7) of this section or under the

Warehouse Lien Act

, the person who has custody of the motor vehicle must notify the
superintendent of the agreement as soon as practicable.




(7)

If a motor vehicle impounded under section 215.46 or 251 (1) remains
impounded after the expiration of the impoundment period referred to
in section 253, the person who has custody of the motor vehicle
may, with the approval of the superintendent, dispose of the motor
vehicle by sale or otherwise, if the person




(a)

surrenders to the superintendent any number plates, issued under this
Act, from the motor vehicle, and




(b)

files with the superintendent a statutory declaration declaring that




(i)

the amount of the person's lien on the motor vehicle exceeds the
amount calculated by subtracting $1 000 from the person's
estimate of the value of the motor vehicle,




(ii)

the person, at least 14 days before making the statutory declaration,
sent to the registered owner of the motor vehicle, by mail, a notice
that the person intends to dispose of the motor vehicle if the lien is
not paid, and




(iii)

the person has obtained a certificate issued under the

Personal Property Security Act

showing that no security interest is registered against the motor
vehicle under that Act.




(8)

A person who has custody of a motor vehicle impounded under section
215.46 or 251 (1) may enter into an agreement, in a form
established by the superintendent, with the owner of the motor vehicle
according to which the title of the motor vehicle is to be transferred
to the person as an irreparable vehicle.




(9)

If an agreement has been entered into under subsection (8), the lien
under subsection (2) held by the person who has custody of the motor
vehicle is discharged and the person must, whether or not the
applicable impoundment period set out in section 253 has expired,
dispose of the motor vehicle as an irreparable vehicle, provided that
the person




(a)

surrenders to the superintendent any number plates, issued under this
Act, from the motor vehicle,




(b)

files with the superintendent




(i)

a copy of the agreement, and




(ii)

a statutory declaration declaring that the person has obtained a
certificate issued under the

Personal Property Security Act

showing that no security interest is registered against the motor
vehicle under that Act,




(c)

delivers to the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia within 10
days after the transfer




(i)

a notice of transfer and change in status of the motor vehicle, in the
form required by the corporation, signed by the owner of the motor
vehicle and the person who has custody of the motor vehicle, and




(ii)

the fee prescribed under section 17.1 (3) (b) for its filing, and




(d)

obtains the approval of the superintendent.




(10)

The notice of transfer referred to in subsection (9) (c) (i) may be
delivered to the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia, a
government agent or a person authorized in writing by the corporation
for the purposes of section 17 (4), but the person delivering the
notice of transfer must at the same time surrender the licence last
issued under section 3 for the motor vehicle, and the person to whom
it is surrendered must endorse on it a memorandum of the notice of
transfer and the date of its delivery to him or her.




(11)

If the superintendent approves the disposal of a motor vehicle under
subsection (7), the superintendent




(a)

must




(i)

direct the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia to cancel any
vehicle licence issued under this Act with respect to the motor
vehicle,




(ii)

direct the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia to transfer the
registration of the motor vehicle to the person who has custody of the
motor vehicle under the impoundment,




(iii)

direct the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia to forward any
refund from the cancellation of the vehicle licence to the previous
registered owner of the motor vehicle, and




(iv)

forward to the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia any number
plates that have been surrendered to the superintendent under
subsection (7), and




(b)

may, after the expiry of 30 days from the day the superintendent
approved the disposal, direct the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia to refuse, under section 26 (1) or (2) or both, to issue to
the person who was the owner of the motor vehicle when it was
impounded a driver's licence or a licence and corresponding number
plates for a motor vehicle or trailer or both until the superintendent
rescinds the direction.




(12)

If the superintendent approves the disposal of a motor vehicle under
subsection (9), the superintendent must do everything set out in
subsection (11) (a).




(13)

If the amount of the lien described in subsection (2) is discharged by
disposal of the motor vehicle under subsection (7) or by payment by
the person who was the owner of the motor vehicle at the time of its
impoundment or by a combination of both,




(a)

the person who made a filing under subsection (7) or who received the
payment must notify the superintendent of the discharge, and




(b)

after receiving the notice referred to in paragraph (a) of this
subsection, the superintendent must rescind the direction to the
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia, if any, made under
subsection (11) (b).




(14)

A person who contravenes a requirement under subsection (9) or (10)
commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of not more
than $2 000 or to imprisonment for not more than 6 months, or to both.






Review of impoundment




256

(1)


The owner of a motor vehicle impounded under section 215.46 (2) for a
period of 30 days or under section 251 (1) for a period of 30 or
60 days may, within 15 days after the impoundment begins, apply to the
superintendent for a review of the impoundment by




(a)

filing an application for review with the superintendent, and




(b)

paying to the superintendent the prescribed hearing fee.




(2)

An application for review must be in the form, contain the information
and be completed in the manner required by the superintendent.




(3)

An applicant may attach to the application for review any statements
or other evidence that the applicant wishes the superintendent to
consider.




(4)

The filing of an application for review does not stay the impoundment
of the motor vehicle.




(5)

The superintendent is not required to hold an oral hearing unless the
applicant




(a)

requests an oral hearing at the time of filing the application for
review, and




(b)

pays the prescribed oral hearing fees.




(6)

If a person requests an oral hearing and fails to appear on the date
and at the time and place arranged for the hearing, without prior
notice to the superintendent, the right to an oral hearing is deemed
to have been waived by the person.






Considerations for review of impoundment




257


In a review under section 256 of a motor vehicle impoundment, the
superintendent




(a)

must consider the report of the peace officer forwarded under
section 254 (1) (c) (i), and




(b)

may consider




(i)

the driving record of the person named as the driver of the motor
vehicle in a copy of the notice of impoundment completed under section
254,




(i.1)

in the case of an impoundment under section 215.46 (2), the report of
the peace officer forwarded under section 215.47 (d), or




(ii)

information and records kept by the superintendent under this Act in
relation to any previous impoundments under section 215.46 or 251 (1),
or under section 104.1 (1), 105 (1), 105.1 (1), 242 (1) or 243 (1)
before their repeal, of motor vehicles owned by the person who applied
for the review.






Decision of superintendent on review of impoundment




258

(1)


If, after considering an application for review made under section 256
by an owner who was not the driver or operator of the motor vehicle at
the time the motor vehicle was impounded, the superintendent is
satisfied




(a)

that the driver or operator was in possession of the motor vehicle
without the knowledge or consent of the owner,




(b)

that the owner exercised reasonable care and diligence in entrusting
the motor vehicle to the person who was, at the time of the
impoundment, in possession of the motor vehicle,




(c)

if the impoundment was made under section 251 (1) (a), that the driver
or operator was not prohibited from driving under any of the
provisions referred to in section 251 (1) (a) at the
time the motor vehicle was impounded,




(d)

if the impoundment was made under section 251 (1) (b), that the
driver's or operator's driver's licence and his or her right to apply
for or obtain a driver's licence were not suspended under section 89
(1) (b) or (c), 232 or 233 at the time the motor vehicle was
impounded, or




(e)

if the impoundment was made under section 251 (1) (c), that




(i)

at the time the motor vehicle was impounded, the driver or operator




(A)

held a subsisting driver's licence issued under this Act, or




(B)

was exempt under section 34 from holding a driver's licence issued
under this Act, or




(ii)

a notice should not have been placed on the driving record of the
driver under section 252 (1),

the superintendent must



(f)

revoke the impoundment, and




(g)

subject to the lien described in section 255 (2), order the person who
has custody of the motor vehicle to release the motor vehicle to the
owner or a person authorized by the owner.




(2)

If, after considering an application for review made under section 256
by an owner who was the driver or operator of the motor vehicle at the
time the motor vehicle was impounded, the superintendent is satisfied




(a)

if the impoundment was made under section 251 (1) (a), that the owner




(i)

was not prohibited from driving under any of the provisions referred
to in section 251 (1) (a) at the time the motor vehicle was impounded,
or




(ii)

before he or she drove or operated the motor vehicle, had no reason to
believe that he or she was prohibited from driving under any of the
provisions referred to in section 251 (1) (a),




(b)

if the impoundment was made under section 251 (1) (b), that




(i)

the owner's driver's licence and his or her right to apply for or
obtain a driver's licence were not suspended under section 89 (1) (b)
or (c), 232 or 233 at the time the motor vehicle was impounded,
or




(ii)

before he or she drove or operated the motor vehicle, the owner had no
reason to believe that his or her driver's licence and his or her
right to apply for or obtain a driver's licence were suspended under a
section referred to in subparagraph (i) of this paragraph, or




(c)

if the impoundment was made under section 251 (1) (c), that




(i)

at the time the motor vehicle was impounded, the owner




(A)

held a subsisting driver's licence issued under this Act, or




(B)

was exempt under section 34 from holding a driver's licence issued
under this Act,




(ii)

before he or she drove or operated the motor vehicle, the owner had a
reasonable belief that he or she




(A)

held a subsisting driver's licence issued under this Act, or




(B)

was exempt under section 34 from holding a driver's licence issued
under this Act, or




(iii)

a notice should not have been placed on the driving record of the
owner under section 252 (1),

the superintendent must



(d)

revoke the impoundment, and




(e)

subject to the lien described in section 255 (2), order the person who
has custody of the motor vehicle to release the motor vehicle to the
owner or a person authorized by the owner.




(3)

If, after considering an application for review made under section 256
by an owner of a motor vehicle impounded under section 251 (1), the
superintendent is satisfied that the period of impoundment determined
under section 253 is not supported by the facts of the case, the
superintendent must




(a)

adjust the period of impoundment in accordance with section 253, or




(b)

if the period of impoundment has expired, subject to the lien
described in section 255 (2), order the person who has
custody of the motor vehicle to release the motor vehicle to the owner
or a person authorized by the owner.




(4)

The decision of the superintendent under subsection (1), (2) or (3),
and the reasons for the decision, must be in writing and a copy must
be sent to the applicant within 7 days of the date the application was
considered or the oral hearing was held.




(5)

The copy referred to in subsection (4) must be sent to the applicant




(a)

at the last known address of the applicant as shown in the records
maintained by the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia, or




(b)

at the address shown in the application for review, if that address is
different from the address in the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia's records.






Review of driving prohibition




259

(1)


A person may, after being served with a notice of driving prohibition
under section 251 (1) (h), apply to the superintendent
for a review of the driving prohibition by




(a)

filing an application for review with the superintendent, and




(b)

paying to the superintendent the prescribed hearing fee.




(2)

An application for review must be in the form, contain the information
and be completed in the manner required by the superintendent.




(3)

An applicant may attach to the application for review any written
statements or other evidence that the applicant wishes the
superintendent to consider.




(4)

The superintendent must conduct a review under this section on the
basis of written submissions and must not hold an oral hearing.






Considerations for review of driving prohibition




260


In a review of a driving prohibition under section 259, the
superintendent may consider only




(a)

the driving record of the person on whom the notice of driving
prohibition was served,




(a.1)

the report of the peace officer forwarded under section 254 (1) (c)
(i), and




(b)

relevant information provided by the person on whom the notice of
driving prohibition was served.






Decision of superintendent on review of driving prohibition




261


If, after considering an application for review under section 259, the
superintendent is satisfied that




(a)

the person, at the time the notice of driving prohibition was served,
was exempt under section 34 from holding a driver's licence issued
under this Act,




(b)

the person has, since the notice of driving prohibition was served,
become exempt under section 34 from holding a driver's licence issued
under this Act, or




(c)

a notice should not have been placed on the driving record of the
person under section 252 (1),

the superintendent must



(d)

revoke the notice of driving prohibition, and




(e)

if the superintendent is satisfied of the matter referred to in
paragraph (c) of this subsection, direct the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia to remove the notice referred to in that paragraph.






Early release of motor vehicle on grounds of economic hardship




262

(1)


A person who




(a)

is the owner of a motor vehicle impounded under section 215.46 (2) for
a period of 30 days or under section 251 (1) for a period of 30 or 60
days or, if not the owner of the impounded motor vehicle, a person
authorized by the owner, and




(b)

has a valid driver's licence and is not prohibited from driving,


may, within 15 days after the impoundment of the motor vehicle begins
under section 215.46 (2) or 251 (1), apply to the
superintendent under subsection (2) of this section for the
release of the motor vehicle.




(2)

An applicant must




(a)

apply in a form acceptable to the superintendent,




(b)

provide the superintendent with any information the superintendent may
reasonably require,




(c)

pay to the superintendent the prescribed hearing fee, and




(d)

establish, to the satisfaction of the superintendent, that the owner
is eligible for early release of the motor vehicle on the grounds set
out in subsection (3).




(3)

The grounds for an early release under this section are that




(a)

the motor vehicle is used in an active sole proprietorship,
partnership or company,




(b)

the sole proprietorship, partnership or company has a reasonable
prospect for generating income that is dependent on the impounded
motor vehicle, and




(c)

the prospective income dependent on the impounded motor vehicle
represents a substantial proportion of the anticipated income to be
earned by the sole proprietorship, partnership or company during the
period of impoundment, or otherwise imposes an economic hardship on
the sole proprietorship, partnership or company.




(4)

If the superintendent is satisfied, with respect to an application,
that the grounds set out in subsection (3) have been established, the
superintendent may, subject to the lien described in section 255 (2),




(a)

with the consent of the owner of the motor vehicle or a person
authorized by the owner, and




(b)

on receiving payment of the prescribed vehicle release fee,


order the person who has custody of the motor vehicle under the
impoundment to release the motor vehicle to the applicant.




(5)

If a motor vehicle has been released under this section during the
course of an impoundment that occurred in respect of a particular
period during which




(a)

the person referred to in section 251 (1) (a) was prohibited from
driving a motor vehicle,




(b)

the person's driver's licence and right to apply for or obtain a
driver's licence was suspended under section 89 (1) (b)
or (c), 232 or 233, or




(c)

the person referred to in section 251 (1) (c) failed to hold a
subsisting driver's licence issued under this Act and was not exempt
under section 34 from holding a driver's licence issued under
this Act,


no further application for the release of a motor vehicle may be made
under this section with respect to an impoundment that occurred in
respect of that same period.






Early release of motor vehicle on compassionate grounds




263

(1)


A person who




(a)

holds a valid driver's licence and is not prohibited from driving, and




(b)

is cohabiting with the owner of a motor vehicle at the time the motor
vehicle is impounded under section 215.46 (2) for a period of 30 days
or under section 251 (1) for a period of 30 or
60 days,


is eligible to apply for the release of the motor vehicle under
subsection (2) of this section.




(2)

An eligible person may, within 15 days after the impoundment of a
motor vehicle begins under section 215.46 (2) or 251 (1), apply
to the superintendent for the release of the motor vehicle on the
grounds that




(a)

the impoundment of the motor vehicle




(i)

will cause the eligible person to suffer a loss or curtailment of
employment or educational opportunities, or




(ii)

will prevent the eligible person, or someone under the care of the
eligible person, from obtaining medical treatment, and




(b)

the eligible person has no reasonable alternative form of
transportation, including public transportation, that would




(i)

prevent the loss or curtailment referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of
this subsection, or




(ii)

allow the medical treatment referred to in paragraph (a) (ii) to be
obtained.




(3)

An applicant must




(a)

apply in a form acceptable to the superintendent,




(b)

provide the superintendent with any information the superintendent may
reasonably require, and




(c)

pay to the superintendent the prescribed hearing fee.




(4)

If the superintendent is satisfied, with respect to an application,
that the grounds set out in subsection (2) have been established, the
superintendent may,




(a)

with the consent of the owner of the motor vehicle, and




(b)

on receiving payment of the prescribed vehicle release fee,


subject to the lien described in section 255 (2), order the person who
has custody of the motor vehicle under the impoundment to release the
motor vehicle to the applicant.




(5)

If a motor vehicle has been released under this section during the
course of an impoundment that occurred in respect of a particular
period during which




(a)

the person referred to in section 251 (1) (a) was prohibited from
driving a motor vehicle,




(b)

the person's driver's licence and right to apply for or obtain a
driver's licence was suspended under section 89 (1) (b)
or (c), 232 or 233, or




(c)

the person referred to in section 251 (1) (c) failed to hold a
subsisting driver's licence issued under this Act and was not exempt
under section 34 from holding a driver's licence issued under this
Act,


no further application for the release of a motor vehicle may be made
under this section with respect to an impoundment that occurs in
respect of that same period.






Release of motor vehicle after impoundment period




264

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), when the impoundment period referred to in
section 253 has expired, or, if an agreement referred to in section
255 (6) is in place, the date for release under that agreement has
been reached, the owner or a person authorized by the owner may
request that the motor vehicle be released by




(a)

completing a request for release of the motor vehicle, and




(b)

delivering the request to the superintendent.




(2)

A request under subsection (1) need not be made to have an impounded
motor vehicle released if the impoundment period for the motor vehicle
was less than 30 days.




(3)

A request under subsection (1) must be in the form, contain the
information and be completed in the manner required by the
superintendent.




(4)

Subject to the lien described in section 255 (2), the superintendent
may, on receiving a request under subsection (1) of this section,
order that the motor vehicle be released to the owner or a person
authorized by the owner.




(5)

Subject to section 255 (5), a person who has custody of a motor
vehicle impounded under section 215.46 or 251 (1) must release the
motor vehicle when ordered to do so by the superintendent.






Owner's right against driver




265


The owner of a motor vehicle impounded under section 215.46 or 251 (1)
may recover from the person who was the driver or operator at the time
the motor vehicle was impounded, as a debt in any court of competent
jurisdiction, the fees, costs, charges, surcharges and deposit, if
applicable, under section 255 (2) that the owner has paid with respect
to the impoundment.






Superintendent may indemnify for wrongful impoundment




266


If the superintendent is satisfied that a motor vehicle has been
wrongfully impounded under section 215.46 or 251 (1), the
superintendent may




(a)

order the release of the motor vehicle from impoundment,




(b)

waive any fee, cost or charge payable to the superintendent, and




(c)

indemnify the owner of the motor vehicle for any direct cost incurred
by the owner in respect of the impoundment of the motor vehicle.






Appropriation




267


Money required for the purposes of a waiver of any fee, cost, charge
or indemnification under section 266 may be paid out of the
consolidated revenue fund without any other appropriation other than
this section.






Power to make regulations — Lieutenant Governor in Council




268


Without limiting any other provision of this Act, the Lieutenant
Governor in Council may make regulations as follows:




(a)

specifying a requirement, restriction or condition for the purposes of
section 251 (1) (f) (ii);




(b)

prescribing hearing fees for the purposes of
sections 256 (1) (b) and (5) (b),
259 (1) (b), 262 (2) (c) and 263 (3) (c);




(c)

prescribing vehicle release fees for the purposes of
sections 262 (4) (b) and 263 (4) (b).






Power to make regulations — superintendent




269


The superintendent may make regulations prescribing the fees, costs,
charges, surcharges and the deposit amount for the purposes of section
255 (2).




Part 10 to 12





Not in force




270-303


[Not in force.]




Part 13 — Pilot Projects





Regulation-making powers respecting pilot projects




304

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), the Lieutenant Governor in Council may make
regulations establishing pilot projects to research, test and evaluate
matters relating to the

Motor Vehicle Act

, including, without limitation, the following:




(a)

respecting the use and operation of a vehicle or device to transport
people or things;




(b)

respecting the registration, licensing and insurance requirements of a
vehicle or device;




(c)

respecting the geographic location of a pilot project;




(d)

respecting public review and comment related to a pilot project;




(e)

respecting the monitoring and evaluation of a pilot project;




(f)

respecting fees in respect of a pilot project;




(g)

respecting enforcement.




(2)

Before making a regulation under this section, the Lieutenant Governor
in Council must be satisfied that the proposed pilot project




(a)

is in the public interest,




(b)

will be consistent with the objectives set by government, including
objectives related to transportation and road safety, and




(c)

has municipal council, treaty first nation or Nisg̱a'a Government
consent, if required under subsection (3).




(3)

For the purposes of subsection (2) (c), the following consent is
required:




(a)

consent of a municipal council




(i)

if the Lieutenant Governor in Council is satisfied that the
municipality has authority to make bylaws, in respect of the proposed
pilot project, under this Act, the

Community Charter

or the

Vancouver Charter

, and




(ii)

if the proposed pilot project will take place in the municipality;




(b)

consent of a treaty first nation




(i)

if the Lieutenant Governor in Council is satisfied that the treaty
first nation has authority to make laws, in respect of the proposed
pilot project, under the treaty first nation's final agreement, and




(ii)

if the proposed pilot project will take place on the treaty first
nation's treaty lands;




(c)

consent of the Nisg̱a'a Government




(i)

if the Lieutenant Governor in Council is satisfied that the Nisg̱a'a
Government has authority to make laws, in respect of the proposed
pilot project, under the Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement, and




(ii)

if the proposed pilot project will take place on Nisg̱a'a Lands.




(4)

Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may exercise, as adapted for a pilot project, all the
regulation-making powers of the Lieutenant Governor in Council and the
minister in the

Motor Vehicle Act

.




(5)

To the extent of any conflict between this Act and a regulation under
this section, the regulation prevails.






Three-year time limit for regulations for pilot projects under this
Part




305


A regulation made under this Part is repealed 3 years after the date
on which the regulation comes into force.




