




Despite the above date, the Schedule to the Act, including the Map of
Nisg̱a'a Lands and the Appendices, is current to May 11, 2000. See
"Amending Agreements" for amendments to the Schedule.


Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement Act
[SBC 1999] CHAPTER 2


Assented to April 26, 1999






Preamble


WHEREAS the reconciliation between the prior presence of aboriginal
peoples and the assertion of sovereignty by the Crown is of
significant social and economic importance to all British Columbians;


AND WHEREAS Canadian courts have stated that this reconciliation is
best achieved through negotiation and agreement, rather than through
litigation or conflict;


AND WHEREAS the Nisg̱a'a Nation, Canada and British Columbia have
negotiated the Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement to achieve this reconciliation,
and to establish a new relationship among them;


AND WHEREAS the Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement requires that British Columbia
enact settlement legislation to give effect to the Nisg̱a'a Final
Agreement;


THEREFORE HER MAJESTY, by and with the advice and consent of the
Legislative Assembly of the Province of British Columbia, enacts as
follows:






Definition




1

(1)


In this Act,
"Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement"
means the Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement among the Nisg̱a'a Nation, Her
Majesty the Queen in right of Canada and Her Majesty the Queen in
right of British Columbia set out in the Schedule and includes




(a)

that agreement as it is given effect by an Act of Canada, and




(b)

amendments made in accordance with that agreement.




(2)

If a word or expression used in this Act is defined in the Nisg̱a'a
Final Agreement, the word or expression has the same meaning in this
Act as in the Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement, unless the context requires
otherwise.




Part 1 — Settlement Legislation





Treaty and land claims agreement




2


The Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement is a treaty and a land claims agreement
within the meaning of sections 25 and 35 of the

Constitution Act, 1982

.






Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement




3

(1)


The Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement is approved, given effect, declared valid
and has the force of law.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), a person or body has the powers,
rights, privileges and benefits conferred on the person or body by the
Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement and must perform the duties and is subject to
the liabilities imposed on the person or body by the Nisg̱a'a Final
Agreement.




(3)

Nothing in this Act that makes provision for a matter that is already
provided for in the Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement in any way limits this
section.






Authorization to sign the Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement




4


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may authorize a member of the
Executive Council to sign the Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement.






Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement binding and can be relied on




5


The Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement is binding on, and can be relied on by,
all persons.






Nisg̱a'a Nation's ownership of lands




6

(1)


[Repealed 2014-32-3.]




(2)

The Nisg̱a'a Nation owns the estate in fee simple, as set out in the
Lands Chapter of the Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement, in the following lands:




(a)

the Nisg̱a'a Lands identified in paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Lands
Chapter of the Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement;




(b)

Category A Lands and Category B Lands.






Nisg̱a'a Nation Taxation Agreement




6.1

(1)


In this section,
"Taxation Agreement"
means the Taxation Agreement, referred to in paragraphs 21 to 23 of
the Taxation Chapter of the Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement, which agreement
was tabled in the Legislative Assembly on November 30, 1998, and
includes an amendment to the Taxation Agreement, made in accordance
with the terms of the Taxation Agreement, if the amending agreement
setting out the amendment




(a)

is substantially in the form approved by the Lieutenant Governor in
Council, and




(b)

has been signed by the parties and published under subsection (5).




(2)

The Taxation Agreement continues in effect and remains valid and its
provisions have the force of law during the period they are in effect.




(3)

The minister charged with the administration of the

Financial Administration Act

is authorized to enter into an agreement amending the Taxation
Agreement and may sign the amending agreement before or after it has
been approved by the Lieutenant Governor in Council.




(4)

As provided in paragraphs 21 and 22 of the Taxation Chapter of the
Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement, the Taxation Agreement does not form part of
the Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement and is not a treaty or land claims
agreement within the meaning of section 25 or 35 of the

Constitution Act, 1982

.




(5)

The minister must publish in the Gazette the Taxation Agreement and
any agreement amending the Taxation Agreement.






Harvest Agreement




7

(1)


The minister responsible for fisheries has the authority, on behalf of
Her Majesty the Queen in right of British Columbia, to enter into the
Harvest Agreement described in the Fisheries Chapter of the Nisg̱a'a
Final Agreement.




(2)

The Harvest Agreement does not form part of the Nisg̱a'a Final
Agreement and it is not a treaty or land claims agreement within the
meaning of section 25 or 35 of the

Constitution Act, 1982

.






Judicial or administrative proceedings




8

(1)


If, in any judicial or administrative proceeding, an issue arises in
respect of




(a)

the interpretation or validity of the Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement, or




(b)

the validity or applicability of any settlement legislation or any
Nisg̱a'a law


the issue must not be decided until the party to the proceeding
raising the issue has properly served notice on the Attorney General
of British Columbia, the Attorney General of Canada and the Nisg̱a'a
Lisims Government.




(2)

The notice required under subsection (1) must




(a)

describe the judicial or administrative proceeding in which the issue
arises,




(b)

state whether the issue arises in respect of the matters referred to
in subsection (1) (a) or (b) or both,




(c)

state the day on which the issue is to be argued,




(d)

give particulars necessary to show the point to be argued, and




(e)

be served at least 14 days before the day of argument unless the court
or tribunal authorizes a shorter notice.




(3)

In any judicial or administrative proceeding to which subsection (1)
applies, the Attorney General of British Columbia, the Attorney
General of Canada and the Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may appear and
participate in the proceeding as parties with the same rights as any
other party to the proceeding.




(4)

The

Judicial Review Procedure Act

applies to an application for judicial review under the following
provisions of the Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement as if the decision under
review were made pursuant to a statutory power of decision as defined
in that Act:




(a)

paragraph 17 of the Nisg̱a'a Government Chapter;




(b)

paragraph 26 of the Eligibility and Enrolment Chapter.




(5)

[Repealed 2014-32-3.]






Power to make orders and regulations




9


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make orders and regulations
that the Lieutenant Governor in Council considers necessary or
advisable for the purpose of carrying out any of the provisions of the
Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement.






Authorization to enter into agreements




10

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may authorize any member of the
Executive Council, on behalf of Her Majesty the Queen in right of
British Columbia, to enter into an agreement that is contemplated by
the Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply to the Harvest Agreement referred to in
section 7 or to agreements referred to in section 43 of the

Environmental Assessment Act

.




Part 2 — Real Property Taxation





Definitions for Part




10.01


In this Part:



"improvements"

has the same meaning as in the

Assessment Act

;


"land"
has the same meaning as in the

Assessment Act

;



"Nisg̱a'a land registry"

means a land registry that is part of the land title or land registry
system established by the Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government under
paragraph 50 of the Nisg̱a'a Government Chapter of the Nisg̱a'a
Final Agreement;



"non-citizen"

means a person who is not a Nisg̱a'a citizen;



"property tax agreement"

means the Real Property Tax Co-ordination Agreement, dated for
reference July 31, 2014, between Her Majesty the Queen in right of the
Province of British Columbia and the Nisg̱a'a Nation, including
Schedules A and B attached to the Real Property Tax Co-ordination
Agreement and any amendments to the Real Property Tax Co-ordination
Agreement that are made in accordance with its terms and published
under section 10.07;



"Provincial Requisitioning Authority"

has the same meaning as in the property tax agreement;



"real property"

means land or improvements, or both, located within Nisg̱a'a Lands or
an interest in land or improvements, or both, located within Nisg̱a'a
Lands;



"real property taxes"

means taxes imposed on the basis of the value of real property.






Authority to impose tax on non-citizen owners or occupiers and provide
exemptions




10.02


Without limiting any provision of this Act, the Nisg̱a'a Lisims
Government may, by law, in accordance with the terms of the property
tax agreement,




(a)

impose real property taxes on non-citizens, in respect of their
interests in real property, and




(b)

provide exemptions from those real property taxes.






Exemptions from Provincial taxation




10.03


Interests in real property are exempt from taxes under




(a)

the

School Act

, and




(b)

except to the extent provided in Article 5.8 of the property tax
agreement, the

Taxation (Rural Area) Act

.






Authority to provide real property tax exemptions




10.031

(1)


The Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may, by law, provide exemptions for
Nisg̱a'a citizens from real property taxes imposed or collected by the
government or by the Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government in relation to the
ownership or occupation of real property.




(2)

A law enacted under subsection (1) does not apply in respect of real
property taxes imposed for a taxation year unless the law comes into
force on or before October 31 in the preceding calendar year.






Administration fees




10.04


If the Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government imposes a real property tax
specifically for the purpose of collecting the amount required to pay
a requisition from a Provincial Requisitioning Authority and, under
the enactment authorizing the requisition, if the requisition were
received by a municipality, the municipality would be entitled to an
administration fee for collecting tax to pay the requisition, the
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government is entitled to an administration fee in an
amount determined as if the requisition had been received by a
municipality.






Excess home owner grants




10.05


In accordance with the property tax agreement, the minister charged
with the administration of the

Financial Administration Act

may pay to the Nisg̱a'a Nation for a taxation year, from amounts
appropriated for the purpose, the amount described as the "Excess
Amount" in Article 12.3 of the property tax agreement.






Application of
Municipal Finance Authority Act




10.06


The

Municipal Finance Authority Act

does not apply in relation to Nisg̱a'a Lands.






Publication of property tax agreement




10.07


The minister must publish in the Gazette




(a)

the property tax agreement, and any amendment to it, and




(b)

if the property tax agreement is terminated in accordance with its
terms, notice of the termination.






Application of
Offence Act




10.08


Section 5 of the

Offence Act

does not apply in relation to this Part.






Spent





11-69



[Consequential amendments. Spent. 1999-2-11 to 69.]






Commencement




70


This Act, except section 4, comes into force by regulation of the
Lieutenant Governor in Council.




SCHEDULE TO NISG̱A'A FINAL AGREEMENT ACT


TABLE OF CONTENTS






PREAMBLE






CHAPTER 1 — DEFINITIONS






CHAPTER 2 — GENERAL PROVISIONS






Nature of Agreement





Agreement Is Binding





Representation and Warranty





Nisg̱a'a Culture and Language





Constitution of Canada






Application of Federal and Provincial Laws







Other Rights, Benefits, and Programs







Judicial Determinations in Respect of Validity






Full and Final Settlement





Nisg̱a'a Section 35 Rights





Modification





Release





Consultation





Provincial Law





Indemnities





Other Aboriginal People





Amendment Provisions





Freedom of Information and Privacy





Obligation to Negotiate





Conflict and Inconsistency





Entire Agreement





Interpretation





No Implied Waiver





Time of the Essence





Assignment





Enurement





Notice





CHAPTER 3 — LANDS






Nisg̱a'a Lands





Mineral Resources






Submerged Lands Within Nisg̱a'a Lands






Interests on Nisg̱a'a Lands





Site Remediation






Nisg̱a'a Fee Simple Lands Outside Nisg̱a'a Lands







Federal Acquisition of Interests in Nisg̱a'a Lands and Nisg̱a'a
Fee Simple Lands






Initial Surveys





Commercial Recreation Tenure






Heritage Sites and Key Geographic Features






Parks and Ecological Reserve





Water Volumes





Schedule A — Boundary Resolution





Schedule B — List of Sites





Schedule C — Water Volumes





CHAPTER 4 — LAND TITLE






Federal Title Legislation





Provincial Torrens System





Application for Indefeasible Title





Land Title Fees





Nisg̱a'a Certificate





Registration of Indefeasible Title





Deprivation of Estate





Cancellation of Indefeasible Title






Application of Provincial Torrens System






CHAPTER 5 — FOREST RESOURCES






Definitions





Ownership of Resources





Applicable Laws and Standards





Timber Harvesting





Forest Fires and Forest Health





Timber Processing





Economic Considerations






Forest Resources Outside Nisg̱a'a Lands






CHAPTER 6 — ACCESS






Nisg̱a'a Public Lands





Navigable Waters





Crown Access to Nisg̱a'a Lands





Nisg̱a'a Access to Other Lands





Access to Fee Simple Properties





CHAPTER 7 — ROADS AND RIGHTS OF WAY






Rights of Way General





Nisg̱a'a Highway





Secondary Provincial Roads





Crown Roads





Nisg̱a'a Roads General





Private Roads





Utilities General






Schedule A — Nisg̱a'a Highway Corridor







Schedule B — Gravel Materials Pits on Nisg̱a'a Lands






CHAPTER 8 — FISHERIES






General





Salmon





Enhancement





Steelhead






Non-salmon Species and Aquatic Plants






Fisheries Management





Lisims Fisheries Conservation Trust






Participation in the General Commercial Fishery






Herring Roe-on-Kelp Study





International Arrangements





Processing Facilities






Schedule A — Nisg̱a'a Fish Allocations for Salmon







Schedule B — Overages and Underages







Schedule C — System of Salmon Equivalencies







Schedule D — Determination of the Nisg̱a'a Fish Allocation of
Steelhead







Schedule E — Nisg̱a'a Fish Allocations of Non-salmon Species or
Aquatic Plants







Schedule F — Provisional Schedule of Lisims Fisheries
Conservation Trust Settlement Amounts







Schedule G — Provisional Schedule of Funding under Paragraph 111
of the Fisheries Chapter






CHAPTER 9 — WILDLIFE AND MIGRATORY BIRDS






General





Nass Wildlife Area





Designated Species





Entitlements and Allocations





Wildlife Management





Trade, Barter, and Sale of Wildlife





Trapping





Guiding





Migratory Birds





Other






Schedule A — Nisg̱a'a Wildlife Allocations of Designated Species







Schedule B — Unregistered Traplines Wholly or Partially on
Nisg̱a'a Lands on the Effective Date







Schedule C — Traplines Wholly Outside Nisg̱a'a Lands Held by
Nisg̱a'a Citizens







Schedule D — Streams in Nisg̱a'a Angling Guide Licence







CHAPTER 10 — ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT AND PROTECTION







Environmental Assessment





Environmental Protection





CHAPTER 11 — NISG̱A'A GOVERNMENT






Self-Government






Recognition of Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government and Nisg̱a'a Village
Governments






Legal Status and Capacity





Nisg̱a'a Constitution





Nisg̱a'a Government Structure





Elections






Appeal and Review of Administrative Decisions






Register of Laws






Relations with Individuals Who Are Not Nisg̱a'a Citizens






Transitional Provisions






Legislative Jurisdiction and Authority






Emergency Preparedness





Other Matters





Nisg̱a'a Government Liability





Other Provinces and Territories





CHAPTER 12 — ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE






Police Services





Community Correction Services





Nisg̱a'a Court





Review






CHAPTER 13 —
INDIAN ACT
TRANSITION







General






Continuation of
Indian Act
By-laws







Status of Bands and Transfer of Band Assets






Nisg̱a'a Tribal Council






CHAPTER 14 — CAPITAL TRANSFER AND NEGOTIATION LOAN REPAYMENT







Capital Transfer





Negotiation Loan Repayment






Schedule A — Provisional Schedule of Capital Transfer Amounts







Schedule B — Loan Repayment Amounts






Prepayments





CHAPTER 15 — FISCAL RELATIONS






Definitions





Interpretation





Fiscal Financing Agreements





Own Source Revenue Agreements





Own Source Revenue Administration





CHAPTER 16 — TAXATION






Direct Taxation






Other Taxation and Tax Administration Agreements






Section 87 Exemption





Remission Orders





Valuation Time





Nisg̱a'a Lands





Nisg̱a'a Capital





Taxation Agreement





CHAPTER 17 — CULTURAL ARTIFACTS AND HERITAGE






General





Return of Nisg̱a'a Artifacts





Access to Other Collections





Protection of Heritage Sites





Other Nisg̱a'a Artifacts





Human Remains






CHAPTER 18 — LOCAL AND REGIONAL GOVERNMENT RELATIONSHIPS







CHAPTER 19 — DISPUTE RESOLUTION






Definitions





General






Scope: When this Chapter Applies to a Disagreement






Disagreements to Go Through Stages






Stage One: Collaborative Negotiations






Stage Two: Facilitated Processes





Negotiating Conditions





Settlement Agreement






Stage Three: Adjudication — Arbitration






Effect of Arbitral Award





Application of Legislation






Stage Three: Adjudication — Judicial Proceedings






Notice to Parties





Costs





CHAPTER 20 — ELIGIBILITY AND ENROLMENT






Eligibility Criteria





Other Land Claims Agreements





Applicants





Enrolment Committee






Application to Remove Applicants from Enrolment Register






Enrolment Appeal Board





Judicial Review





Funding






Dissolution of Enrolment Committee and Enrolment Appeal Board







Nisg̱a'a Nation Responsibilities for Enrolment






CHAPTER 21 — IMPLEMENTATION






Implementation Committee





CHAPTER 22 — RATIFICATION






General





Ratification by the Nisg̱a'a Nation





Ratification by Canada





Ratification by British Columbia






Adoption of the Nisg̱a'a Constitution






MAP OF NISG̱A'A LANDS








PREAMBLE


WHEREAS
the Nisg̱a'a Nation has lived in the Nass Area since time immemorial;


WHEREAS
the Nisg̱a'a Nation is an aboriginal people of Canada;


WHEREAS
section 35 of the
Constitution Act, 1982
recognizes and affirms the existing aboriginal and treaty rights of the
aboriginal peoples of Canada, which the Courts have stated include
aboriginal title;


WHEREAS
the Nisg̱a'a Nation has never entered into a treaty with Canada or
British Columbia;


WHEREAS
the Nisg̱a'a Nation has sought a just and equitable settlement of the
land question since the arrival of the British Crown, including the
preparation of the Nisg̱a'a Petition to His Majesty's Privy Council,
dated 21 May, 1913, and the conduct of the litigation that led to the
decision of the Supreme Court of Canada in

Calder v. the Attorney-General of British Columbia

in 1973, and this Agreement is intended to be the just and equitable
settlement of the land question;


WHEREAS
Canadian courts have stated that the reconciliation between the prior
presence of aboriginal peoples and the assertion of sovereignty by the
Crown is best achieved through negotiation and agreement, rather than
through litigation or conflict;


WHEREAS
the Parties intend that this Agreement will result in this
reconciliation and establish a new relationship among them;


WHEREAS
this Agreement sets out Nisg̱a'a section 35 rights inside and outside of
the area that is identified in this Agreement as Nisg̱a'a Lands;


WHEREAS
the Parties acknowledge the ongoing importance to the Nisg̱a'a Nation of
the
Simgigat
and
Sigidimhaanak
(hereditary chiefs and matriarchs) continuing to tell their
Adaawak
(oral histories) relating to their
Ango'oskw
(family hunting, fishing, and gathering territories) in accordance with
the
Ayuuk
(Nisg̱a'a traditional laws and practices);


WHEREAS
the Parties intend their relationship to be based on a new approach to
mutual recognition and sharing, and to achieve this mutual recognition
and sharing by agreeing on rights, rather than by the extinguishment of
rights; and


WHEREAS
the Parties intend that this Agreement will provide certainty with
respect to Nisg̱a'a ownership and use of lands and resources, and the
relationship of federal, provincial and Nisg̱a'a laws, within the Nass
Area;


NOW THEREFORE THE PARTIES AGREE AS FOLLOWS:




CHAPTER 1


DEFINITIONS

In this Agreement:


"adjusted total allowable catch"

means, for Nass sockeye or Nass pink salmon, the total return to
Canadian waters less the Nisg̱a'a fish allocation set out in Schedule A
to the Fisheries Chapter, and less the escapement goal;


"adopted child"
means an individual who, while a minor, was adopted by Nisg̱a'a custom or
under laws recognized in Canada;



"aggregate right of way maximum"

means 2,800 hectares;


"Agreement"
means this Agreement between the Nisg̱a'a Nation, Canada, and British
Columbia and all Schedules and Appendices to this Agreement;


"annual management plan"
means a plan approved in accordance with the Wildlife and Migratory
Birds Chapter;


"aquatic plants"
means all marine and freshwater plants, including kelp, marine flowering
plants, benthic and detached algae, brown algae, red algae, green algae,
and phytoplankton;


"associated records"
means records documenting Nisg̱a'a culture including any correspondence,
memorandum, book, plan, drawing, diagram, pictorial or graphic work,
photograph, film, microform, sound recording, video tape, machine
readable record, and any other documentary materials, regardless of the
physical form or characteristics, and any copy of those records;


"available flow"
means the volume of flow of water above that required:


a. to ensure conservation of fish and stream habitats and to continue
navigability as determined by the Minister in accordance with the
provisions of this Agreement, and


b. under water licences issued before March 22, 1996 and water licences
issued under applications made before March 22, 1996;



"

Ayuu
k
hl Nisg̱a'a

"

and

"
Ayuuk
"

mean the traditional laws and practices of the Nisg̱a'a Nation;


"British Columbia"
means, unless the context otherwise requires, Her Majesty the Queen in
right of British Columbia;


"British Columbia right of way"
means:

a. the Nisg̱a'a Highway corridor, or

b. any right of way on Nisg̱a'a Lands granted by the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a
Nisg̱a'a Village to:

i. British Columbia, or
ii. a public utility

on the effective date under this Agreement, or after the effective date
under paragraph 2 of the Roads and Rights of Way Chapter;


"Canada"
means, unless the context otherwise requires, Her Majesty the Queen in
right of Canada;


"Category A Lands"
means the lands defined in paragraph 46 of the Lands Chapter;


"Category B Lands"
means the lands defined in paragraph 61 of the Lands Chapter;


"child"
means a person under the age of majority in British Columbia;


"child and family service"
means a service that provides for:


a. the protection of children, where the primary objective is the safety
and well-being of children, having due regard for:


i. the protection from abuse, neglect, and harm, or threat of abuse,
neglect, or harm, and any need for intervention,


ii. the support of families and care givers to provide a safe
environment and prevent abuse, neglect, and harm, or threat of abuse,
neglect, or harm, and


iii. the support of kinship ties and a child's attachment to the
extended family, or


b. the promotion of a well-functioning family and community life;


"community correction service"
means:


a. bail, probation, conditional sentences, conditional supervision,
parole supervision, and other forms of conditional release of adult and
young offenders,


b. preparation of reports for courts, Crown counsel, and parole boards,


c. supervision of diverted offenders and operation of diversion
programs,


d. monitoring under the Electronic Monitoring Program,


e. development and supervision of alternative to custody programs for
adult and young offenders,


f. other similar services that may be delivered by British Columbia or
Canada from time to time, or


g. Family Court counsellor functions described in an agreement under the
Administration of Justice Chapter;


"consult"
and
"consultation"
mean provision to a party of:


a. notice of a matter to be decided, in sufficient detail to permit the
party to prepare its views on the matter,


b. in consultations between the Parties to this Agreement, if requested
by a Party, sufficient information in respect of the matter to permit
the Party to prepare its views on the matter,


c. a reasonable period of time to permit the party to prepare its views
on the matter,


d. an opportunity for the party to present its views on the matter, and


e. a full and fair consideration of any views on the matter so presented
by the party;


"Crown"
means Her Majesty the Queen in right of Canada, or Her Majesty the Queen
in right of British Columbia, as the case may be;


"Crown roads"
means the Nisg̱a'a Highway and secondary provincial roads;


"descendant"
includes a direct descendant notwithstanding any intervening adoption or
any birth outside marriage;


"designated species"
means:


a. a species of wildlife for which the Minister has determined under the
Wildlife and Migratory Birds Chapter that there should be a total
allowable harvest in the Nass Wildlife Area, or

b. an initial designated species
in the Nass Wildlife Area;

"directed harvest"
means the catching and keeping of:


a. a species of fish from a fishery in which a Nass Area stock of that
species is a significant portion of the fish caught and kept, or


b. a Nass Area stock of a species of fish using live capture gear;


"disagreement"
means any matter to which the Dispute Resolution Chapter applies as set
out in paragraph 7 of that Chapter;


"dispose"
means to transfer by any method and includes assign, give, sell, grant,
charge, convey, bequeath, devise, lease, divest, release, and to agree
to do any of those things;


"domestic purposes"
means, in the Fisheries Chapter, and in the Wildlife and Migratory Birds
Chapter, food, social, and ceremonial purposes;


"effective date"
means the date upon which this Agreement takes effect;


"eligible voter"
means an individual who:


a. is eligible to vote under paragraph 6 of the Ratification Chapter, or


b. who votes under paragraph 7 of the Ratification Chapter and whose
vote is counted in accordance with paragraph 8 of that Chapter;


"enhancement initiative"
means an initiative that is intended to result in an increase in fish
stocks through:

a. an artificial improvement to fish habitat, or
b. the application of fish culture technology;

"enrolled"
means entered in the enrolment register provided for in the Eligibility
and Enrolment Chapter;


"Enrolment Appeal Board"
means the board established under paragraph 19 of the Eligibility and
Enrolment Chapter;


"Enrolment Committee"
means the committee established under paragraph 8 of the Eligibility and
Enrolment Chapter;


"environmental assessment"
means the evaluation of impacts on the environment, and includes
screening, study, and review;


"escapement goal"
means the number of a species of Nass salmon that the Minister
determines is necessary for spawning;


"fair compensation"
means, in respect of land, compensation as that term is generally
applied in respect of a taking by the Crown, and will be based on:


a. fair market value of the land or interest that is expropriated or
otherwise taken,


b. the replacement value of any improvement on the land that is
expropriated or otherwise taken,


c. disturbance caused by the expropriation or taking, and


d. in the case of Category A Lands, any particular cultural values;


"fish"
means:

a. fish, including anadromous fish,
b. shellfish, crustaceans, and marine animals,

c. the parts of fish, shellfish, crustaceans, and marine animals, and


d. the eggs, sperm, spawn, larvae, spat, juvenile stages and adult
stages of fish, shellfish, crustaceans and marine animals

but not "wildlife fish";

"forest resources"
means all timber and non-timber forest resources, including all biota,
but does not include wildlife, migratory birds, water, or fish;


"geothermal resource"
means the natural heat of the earth and all substances that derive an
added value from it, including steam, water, and water vapour heated by
the natural heat of the earth, and all substances dissolved in the
steam, water, or water vapour obtained from a well, but does not
include:


a. water that has a temperature less than 80 degrees Centigrade at the
point where it reaches the surface, or

b. hydrocarbons;

"gravel management plan"
means a written description of the development, use, and closure of a
gravel materials pit, that contains information such as its location,
size and extent, access roads, soil and gravel materials descriptions,
topographical and geotechnical mapping, development plans, anticipated
volumes of gravel materials extracted per time period, reporting, and
reclamation;


"gravel materials"
means gravel, rock, and random borrow materials used in highway
construction;


"heritage sites"
includes archaeological, burial, historical, and sacred sites;


"Hydro"
means British Columbia Hydro and Power Authority and its successors and
assigns;


"incidental harvest"
means the catching and keeping of a species of Nass Area fish, other
than in a directed harvest;


"initial designated species"
means a species designated under paragraph 15 of the Wildlife and
Migratory Birds Chapter;


"initial enrolment period"
means:


a. for the purposes of the Enrolment Committee, from October 1, 1997 to
September 30, 1999, and


b. for the purposes of the Enrolment Appeal Board, from the effective
date to the day before the second anniversary of the effective date;


"intertidal bivalves"
means littleneck clams (
Protothaca staminea
), butter clams (
Saxidomus giganteas
), horse clams (
Tresus
spp.), cockles (
Clinocardium nuttallii
), mussels
(Mytilus edulis
), and manila clams (
Tapes philippinarum
);


"intoxicants"
includes liquor;



"Joint Fisheries Management Committee"

means the committee established under paragraph 77 of the Fisheries
Chapter;



"Joint Park Management Committee"

means the committee referred to in paragraph 106 of the Lands Chapter;


"land claims agreement"
means:


a. a land claims agreement in Canada within the meaning of sections 25
and 35 of the
Constitution Act, 1982
, or


b. a treaty within the meaning of sections 25 and 35 of the
Constitution Act, 1982
that comes into effect in Canada after the effective date;


"law"
includes federal, British Columbia, and Nisg̱a'a legislation, acts,
ordinances, regulations, orders in council, bylaws, and the common law,
but, for greater certainty, does not include

Ayuu
k
hl

Nisg̱a'a or
Ayuuk
;


"laws of general application"
includes federal and provincial laws that apply generally in British
Columbia, but does not include federal laws in respect of Indians or
lands reserved for the Indians;


"liquor"
means:

a. fermented, spirituous and malt liquors,
b. combinations of liquors, and

c. drinks and drinkable liquids that are intoxicating


and liquor that contains more than 1% alcohol by volume will be
conclusively deemed to be intoxicating, and "liquor" includes beer, or a
substance which, by being dissolved or diluted, is capable of being made
a drinkable liquid that is intoxicating and which substance is declared
by order of the Lieutenant Governor in Council to be liquor;



"
Lisims
"

means the Nass River;


"migratory birds"
has the meaning set out in any federal legislation that is enacted
further to international conventions and that is binding on British
Columbia, and includes the eggs of migratory birds;


"mineral resources"
includes minerals and geothermal resources;


"minerals"
means ores of metal and all natural substances that can be mined, and
includes:


a. rock or other materials from mine tailings, dumps, and previously
mined deposits of minerals,


b. coal, petroleum, gas, earth, soil, peat, marl, sand, gravel, rock,
stone, limestone, dolomite, marble, shale, clay, volcanic ash, and
diatomaceous earth, and

c. all precious and base minerals;

"Minister"
means, in relation to any matter, the Minister or Ministers of Her
Majesty the Queen in right of Canada or in right of British Columbia, as
the case may be, having the responsibility, from time to time, for the
exercise of powers in relation to the matter in question;


"minor"
means an individual under the age of majority in that person's place of
residence;


"Nass Area"
means:

a. the entire Nass watershed,

b. all Canadian watersheds and water bodies that drain into portions of
Portland Inlet, Observatory Inlet, or Portland Canal, as defined in
subparagraph (c), and


c. all marine waters in Pearse Canal, Portland Inlet, Observatory Inlet,
and Portland Canal northeast of a line commencing at the Canadian
border, midway between Pearse Island and Wales Island, and proceeding
along Wales Passage southeasterly to Portland Inlet, then northeasterly
to the midpoint between Start Point and Trefusis Point, then south to
Gadu Point

as set out approximately in Appendix I;

"Nass salmon"
means chinook, chum, coho, sockeye, and pink salmon originating in the
Nass Area;


"Nass steelhead"
means summer-run Nass steelhead and winter-run Nass steelhead
originating in the Nass Area;


"Nass Wildlife Area"
means the area described in Appendix J;


"natural boundary"
means the visible high water mark of any lake, river, stream, or other
body of water where the presence and action of the water are so common
and usual, and so long continued in all ordinary years, as to mark on
the soil of the bed of the body of water a character distinct from that
of its banks, in vegetation, as well as in the nature of the soil
itself;


"neutral"
means a person appointed to assist the Parties to resolve a disagreement
and, except in paragraph 24 of the Dispute Resolution Chapter and
Appendix M-4, includes an arbitrator;


"neutral appointing authority"
means the British Columbia International Commercial Arbitration Centre
or, if the Centre is unavailable to make a required appointment, any
other independent and impartial body or individual acceptable to the
Parties;


"Nisg̱a'a annual fishing plan"
means a plan, or an in-season adjustment to a plan, approved in
accordance with the Fisheries Chapter;


"Nisg̱a'a artifact"
means any object created by, traded to, commissioned by, or given as a
gift to a Nisg̱a'a person or Nisg̱a'a community, or that originated from a
Nisg̱a'a community or Nisg̱a'a heritage site and that has past and ongoing
importance to Nisg̱a'a culture or spiritual practices, but does not
include any object traded to, commissioned by, or given as a gift to
another aboriginal people;


"Nisg̱a'a Certificate"
means a certificate of Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government described in
subparagraph 7 (b) of the Land Title Chapter;


"Nisg̱a'a child"
means a minor who is or is eligible to become a Nisg̱a'a citizen;


"Nisg̱a'a citizen"
means a citizen of the Nisg̱a'a Nation as determined by Nisg̱a'a law;


"Nisg̱a'a Constitution"
means the constitution of the Nisg̱a'a Nation adopted in accordance with
the Nisg̱a'a Government Chapter;


"Nisg̱a'a Corporation"
means a corporation that is incorporated under federal or provincial
law, all of the shares of which are owned legally and beneficially by
the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, a Nisg̱a'a settlement trust, a
Nisg̱a'a Corporation Intermediary, or any combination of those entities;



"Nisg̱a'a Corporation Intermediary"

means a corporation that is incorporated under federal or provincial
law, all of the shares of which are owned legally and beneficially by
the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, a Nisg̱a'a settlement trust,
another Nisg̱a'a Corporation Intermediary, or any combination of those
entities;


"Nisg̱a'a Court"
means a court established under the Administration of Justice Chapter;


"Nisg̱a'a Fee Simple Lands"
means Category A Lands and Category B Lands;


"Nisg̱a'a fish allocation"
means a Nisg̱a'a fish entitlement under this Agreement, or a right to
harvest fish under the Harvest Agreement referred to in the Fisheries
Chapter, for which there is:

a. a defined harvest quantity or quota,

b. a formula defining a harvest quantity or quota, or


c. a defined harvest area other than the entire Nass Area;


"Nisg̱a'a fish entitlement"
means a right to harvest fish or aquatic plants under this Agreement,
but does not include the right to harvest fish under the Harvest
Agreement referred to in the Fisheries Chapter, or under federal or
provincial laws of general application;


"Nisg̱a'a fisheries"
means:


a. fisheries to harvest fish under Nisg̱a'a fish entitlements under this
Agreement,


b. fisheries to harvest Nass salmon under Nisg̱a'a fish allocations under
the Harvest Agreement, and


c. harvests of aquatic plants under Nisg̱a'a fish entitlements under this
Agreement;


"Nisg̱a'a Government"
means Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government and Nisg̱a'a Village Governments;


"Nisg̱a'a Highway"
means the following:


a. the British Columbia highway existing on the effective date
connecting Highway 16, New Aiyansh, Nass Camp, Gitwinksihlkw, and
Lagalt'sap, and


b. the portion of the route for the proposed highway from Nass Camp to
Highway 37 that is within Nisg̱a'a Lands, and the route for the proposed
highway from Laxgalt'sap to Gingolx;


"Nisg̱a'a Highway corridor"
means the area of land on which the Nisg̱a'a Highway is located, as
determined under paragraphs 9 and 10 of the Roads and Rights of Way
Chapter and as described in Schedule A of the Roads and Rights of Way
Chapter;


"Nisg̱a'a Institution"
means:

a. Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government,
b. a Nisg̱a'a Village Government, or
c. a Nisg̱a'a Public Institution;

"Nisg̱a'a Lands"
means those lands identified in paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Lands Chapter
and includes additions under paragraphs 9 or 11 of the Lands Chapter;


"Nisg̱a'a laws"
includes the Nisg̱a'a Constitution;


"Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government"
means the government of the Nisg̱a'a Nation described in the Nisg̱a'a
Constitution;


"Nisg̱a'a Nation"
means the collectivity of those aboriginal people who share the
language, culture, and laws of the Nisg̱a'a Indians of the Nass Area, and
their descendants;


"Nisg̱a'a participant"
means an individual who is enrolled;


"Nisg̱a'a Police Board"
means a board established under the Administration of Justice Chapter;


"Nisg̱a'a Police Service"
means a police service established under the Administration of Justice
Chapter;


"Nisg̱a'a Private Lands"
means Nisg̱a'a Lands that are designated as Nisg̱a'a Private Lands by
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government;


"Nisg̱a'a Public Institution"
means a Nisg̱a'a Government body, board, commission, or tribunal
established under Nisg̱a'a law, such as a school board, health board, or
police board, but does not include the Nisg̱a'a Court referred to in the
Administration of Justice Chapter;


"Nisg̱a'a Public Lands"
means Nisg̱a'a Lands other than Nisg̱a'a Village Lands or Nisg̱a'a Private
Lands;


"Nisg̱a'a public officer"
means:


a. a member, commissioner, director, or trustee of a Nisg̱a'a Public
Institution,


b. a director of a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, the documents of incorporation
of which have been approved by the Inspector of Municipalities for
British Columbia,


c. an officer or employee of the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, a
Nisg̱a'a Institution, or a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, the documents of
incorporation of which have been approved by the Inspector of
Municipalities for British Columbia,


d. an election official within the meaning of a Nisg̱a'a law, or


e. a volunteer who participates in the delivery of services by the
Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, a Nisg̱a'a Institution, or a body
referred to in subparagraph (b) or (c), under the supervision of an
officer or employee of the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, a Nisg̱a'a
Institution, or a body referred to in subparagraph (b) or (c);


"Nisg̱a'a road"
means a road on Nisg̱a'a Lands that is not a provincial secondary road or
a private road;


"Nisg̱a'a section 35 rights"
means the rights, anywhere in Canada, of the Nisg̱a'a Nation, that are
recognized and affirmed by section 35 of the
Constitution Act, 1982
;


"Nisg̱a'a tribe"
means the
Laxsgiik
(Eagle),
Laxgibuu
(Wolf), the
Gisk'aast
(Killerwhale), or the

G
anada

(Raven) tribe of the Nisg̱a'a Nation;


"Nisg̱a'a Urban Locals"
means the entities established for the purpose of participation in
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government by Nisg̱a'a citizens residing outside of the
Nass Area;


"Nisg̱a'a Village"
means:


a. the village of New Aiyansh, Gitwinksihlkw, La
x
galt'sap, or Gingolx, or


b. any additional village on Nisg̱a'a Lands, established in accordance
with the Nisg̱a'a Constitution and this Agreement;


"Nisg̱a'a Village Government"
means the government of a Nisg̱a'a Village;


"Nisg̱a'a Village Lands"
means Nisg̱a'a Lands that are designated as Nisg̱a'a Village Lands of a
particular Nisg̱a'a Village by Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government;


"Nisg̱a'a wildlife allocation"
means a Nisg̱a'a wildlife entitlement to a defined share of the total
allowable harvest of a designated species;


"Nisg̱a'a wildlife entitlement"
means a right to harvest wildlife or migratory birds under this
Agreement, but does not include a right to harvest wildlife or migratory
birds under federal or provincial laws of general application;


"non-salmon species"
means a species of fish in the Nass Area other than Nass salmon and Nass
steelhead;


"overage"
means the amount calculated in accordance with Schedule B of the
Fisheries Chapter in any year in which the Nisg̱a'a harvest of a species
exceeds the amount of that species that the Nisg̱a'a Nation is entitled
to harvest in Nisg̱a'a fisheries in that year;


"overharvest"
means the amount in any year by which, as a result of harvesting in
Canadian fisheries, the escapement goal exceeds the actual escapement
for a species of Nass salmon;


"participating Party"
means a Party that:

a. is required or agrees to participate in, or
b. initiates

a process described in the Dispute Resolution Chapter to resolve a
disagreement;


"Party"
means a party to this Agreement;


"private road"
means a road on a private right of way area on Nisg̱a'a Lands;


"project"
means any undertaking or proposed undertaking in relation to a physical
work or activity;


"provincial Torrens system"
means the
Land Title Act
and all other laws of British Columbia in respect of the registration of
title to, rights in, claims against, and estates and interests in, land,
whether legal or equitable;


"public utility"
has the meaning as set out in the
Utilities Commission Act
, and includes Hydro, BC TEL, and a water, sewage, or petroleum
distribution utility;


"Ratification Committee"
means the committee established under the Ratification Chapter;



"Regional District of Kitimat-Stikine"

means the Regional District of Kitimat-Stikine as it exists on the
effective date, and any successor regional government;


"Registrar"
means "Registrar" as defined in the
Land Title Act
;


"right of way area"
means a defined portion of Nisg̱a'a Lands on which a grant is given by
the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village for a specified use, including
use for a public or private road, or a public utility;


"road"
means the surface area of lands constructed and used for vehicular
passage, and includes surfacing, bridges, drainage and support works,
traffic control structures, and other works required to maintain the
integrity of the travelled surface;


"secondary provincial road"
means a road existing on the effective date located on a right of way
area granted by the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village to British
Columbia as described in Appendix C-1, subject to changes permitted
under this Agreement;


"settlement legislation"
means the Acts of Parliament and the Acts of the Legislature of British
Columbia that give effect to this Agreement;



"
Simgigat
and
Sigidimhaanak
"

means individuals who are Nisg̱a'a chiefs, and Nisg̱a'a matriarchs,
respectively, in accordance with

Ayuu
k
hl

Nisg̱a'a;


"stream"
includes a natural watercourse or source of water supply, whether
usually containing water or not, and a lake, river, spring, ravine,
swamp, and gulch;


"submerged lands"
means lands below the natural boundary;


"summer-run Nass steelhead"
means:


a. those Nass steelhead within the Nass River that migrate from marine
environments to fresh water environments between June 1 and October 31
in any year, and


b. all Nass steelhead within watersheds draining into the Nass River
upstream of the confluence of the Tseax River and the Nass River;


"surplus"
means the amount, in any year, of a species of Nass salmon that exceeds
the physical incubation and rearing capacity of a natural area, or an
enhancement facility, for that species, and that has not been harvested
in Nisg̱a'a fisheries or other aboriginal, commercial, or recreational
fisheries;


"survey plan"
means a plan based on a survey, made by a British Columbia Land
Surveyor, that complies with the regulations in respect of surveys and
plans made by the Surveyor General of British Columbia;


"total allowable harvest"
means the maximum number of a designated species, as determined by the
Minister, that may be harvested in the Nass Wildlife Area in each year,
commencing on April 1 and ending on March 31;


"underage"
means the amount calculated in accordance with Schedule B of the
Fisheries Chapter in any year in which the amount of a species that the
Nisg̱a'a Nation is entitled to harvest in that year in Nisg̱a'a fisheries
exceeds the Nisg̱a'a harvest of that species;


"voting officer"
means an individual who has been authorized by the Ratification
Committee to issue ballots for the referendum at a place of voting;


"wildlife"
means:


a. all vertebrate and invertebrate animals, including mammals, birds,
wildlife fish, reptiles, and amphibians, and


b. the eggs, juvenile stages, and adult stages of all vertebrate and
invertebrate animals


but does not include "fish" or "migratory birds";


"Wildlife Committee"
means the committee established under paragraph 45 of the Wildlife and
Migratory Birds Chapter;


"wildlife fish"
means:


a. lampreys, crustaceans, mollusks, and non-anadromous fish, from or in
non-tidal waters,


b. the parts of lampreys, crustaceans, mollusks, and non-anadromous
fish, from or in non-tidal waters, and


c. the eggs, sperm, spawn, larvae, spat, juvenile stages, and adult
stages of lampreys, crustaceans, mollusks, and non-anadromous fish, from
or in non-tidal waters;


"winter-run Nass steelhead"
means:


a. those Nass steelhead within the Nass River that migrate from marine
environments to fresh water environments between November 1 in any year,
and May 31 in the next year,


b. all Nass steelhead within watersheds draining into the Nass River
downstream of the confluence of the Tseax River and the Nass River,
including the Tseax River watershed, and


c. all Nass steelhead within watersheds draining into the Nass Area,
other than the Nass River watershed and watersheds draining into the
Nass River; and


"year"
means a calendar year unless otherwise provided, or unless the Parties
otherwise agree.




CHAPTER 2


GENERAL PROVISIONS



NATURE OF AGREEMENT


1.
This Agreement is a treaty and a land claims agreement within the
meaning of sections 25 and 35 of the
Constitution Act, 1982
.



AGREEMENT IS BINDING


2.
This Agreement is binding on the Parties.


3.
The Parties are entitled to rely on this Agreement.


4.
Canada and British Columbia will recommend to Parliament and the
Legislature of British Columbia, respectively, that settlement
legislation provide that this Agreement is binding on, and can be relied
on by, all persons.



REPRESENTATION AND WARRANTY


5.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation represents and warrants to Canada and British
Columbia that, in respect of the matters dealt with in this Agreement,
it has the authority to enter, and it enters, into this Agreement on
behalf of all persons who have any aboriginal rights, including
aboriginal title, in Canada, or any claims to those rights, based on
their identity as Nisg̱a'a.


6.
Canada and British Columbia represent and warrant to the Nisg̱a'a Nation
that, in respect of the matters dealt with in this Agreement, they have
the authority to enter into this Agreement within their respective
authorities.



NISG̱A'A CULTURE AND LANGUAGE


7.
Nisg̱a'a citizens have the right to practice the Nisg̱a'a culture, and to
use the Nisg̱a'a language, in a manner consistent with this Agreement.



CONSTITUTION OF CANADA


8.
This Agreement does not alter the Constitution of Canada, including:


a. the distribution of powers between Canada and British Columbia;


b. the identity of the Nisg̱a'a Nation as an aboriginal people of Canada
within the meaning of the
Constitution Act, 1982
; and


c. sections 25 and 35 of the
Constitution Act, 1982
.


9.
The
Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms
applies to Nisg̱a'a Government in respect of all matters within its
authority, bearing in mind the free and democratic nature of Nisg̱a'a
Government as set out in this Agreement.


10.
There are no "lands reserved for the Indians" within the meaning of the
Constitution Act, 1867
for the Nisg̱a'a Nation, and there are no "reserves" as defined in the
Indian Act
for the use and benefit of a Nisg̱a'a Village, or an Indian band referred
to in the
Indian Act
Transition Chapter, and, for greater certainty, Nisg̱a'a Lands and
Nisg̱a'a Fee Simple Lands are not "lands reserved for the Indians" within
the meaning of the
Constitution Act, 1867
, and are not "reserves" as defined in the
Indian Act
.



APPLICATION OF FEDERAL AND PROVINCIAL LAWS


11.
If an authority of British Columbia referred to in this Agreement is
delegated from Canada and:


a. the delegation of that authority is revoked; or


b. if a superior court of a province, the Federal Court of Canada, or
the Supreme Court of Canada finally determines that the delegation of
that authority is invalid


the reference to British Columbia will be deemed to be a reference to
Canada.


12.
If an authority of Canada referred to in this Agreement is delegated
from British Columbia and:


a. the delegation of that authority is revoked; or


b. if a superior court of a province, the Federal Court of Canada, or
the Supreme Court of Canada finally determines that the delegation of
that authority is invalid


the reference to Canada will be deemed to be a reference to British
Columbia.


13.
Federal and provincial laws apply to the Nisg̱a'a Nation, Nisg̱a'a
Villages, Nisg̱a'a Institutions, Nisg̱a'a Corporations, Nisg̱a'a citizens,
Nisg̱a'a Lands, and Nisg̱a'a Fee Simple Lands, but:


a. in the event of an inconsistency or conflict between this Agreement
and the provisions of any federal or provincial law, this Agreement will
prevail to the extent of the inconsistency or conflict; and


b. in the event of an inconsistency or conflict between settlement
legislation and the provisions of any other federal or provincial law,
the settlement legislation will prevail to the extent of the
inconsistency or conflict.


14.
Any licence, permit, or other authorization, including the Commercial
Recreation Tenure required to be issued by Canada or British Columbia as
a result of this Agreement, will be issued under federal or provincial
law, as the case may be, and is not part of this Agreement, but in the
event of an inconsistency or conflict between this Agreement and:

a. that federal or provincial law; or

b. any term or condition of the licence, permit, or other authorization


this Agreement will prevail to the extent of the inconsistency or
conflict.



OTHER RIGHTS, BENEFITS, AND PROGRAMS


15.
Nisg̱a'a citizens who are Canadian citizens or permanent residents of
Canada continue to be entitled to all of the rights and benefits of
other Canadian citizens or permanent residents of Canada, applicable to
them from time to time.


16.
Subject to paragraph 6 of the Fiscal Relations Chapter, nothing in this
Agreement affects the ability of the Nisg̱a'a Nation, Nisg̱a'a Villages,
Nisg̱a'a Institutions, Nisg̱a'a Corporations or Nisg̱a'a citizens to
participate in, or benefit from, federal or provincial programs for
aboriginal people, registered Indians or other Indians, in accordance
with general criteria established for those programs from time to time.


17.
Nothing in this Agreement affects the ability of the Nisg̱a'a Nation,
Nisg̱a'a Villages, Nisg̱a'a Institutions, Nisg̱a'a Corporations, or Nisg̱a'a
citizens to apply for or bid on any commercial, economic or other
activity or project for which they would otherwise be eligible.


18.
Subject to the
Indian Act
Transition Chapter and paragraphs 5 and 6 of the Taxation Chapter, the
Indian Act
has no application to the Nisg̱a'a Nation, Nisg̱a'a Villages, Nisg̱a'a
Institutions, or Nisg̱a'a citizens as of the effective date, except for
the purpose of determining whether an individual is an "Indian".



JUDICIAL DETERMINATIONS IN RESPECT OF VALIDITY


19.
If a superior court of a province, the Federal Court of Canada, or the
Supreme Court of Canada finally determines any provision of this
Agreement to be invalid or unenforceable:


a. the Parties will make best efforts to amend this Agreement to remedy
or replace the provision; and


b. the provision will be severable from this Agreement to the extent of
the invalidity or unenforceability, and the remainder of this Agreement
will be construed, to the extent possible, to give effect to the intent
of the Parties.


20.
No Party will challenge, or support a challenge to, the validity of any
provision of this Agreement.


21.
A breach of this Agreement by a Party does not relieve any Party from
its obligations under this Agreement.



FULL AND FINAL SETTLEMENT


22.
This Agreement constitutes the full and final settlement in respect of
the aboriginal rights, including aboriginal title, in Canada of the
Nisg̱a'a Nation.



NISG̱A'A  SECTION 35 RIGHTS


23.
This Agreement exhaustively sets out Nisg̱a'a section 35 rights, the
geographic extent of those rights, and the limitations to those rights,
to which the Parties have agreed, and those rights are:


a. the aboriginal rights, including aboriginal title, as modified by
this Agreement, in Canada of the Nisg̱a'a Nation and its people in and to
Nisg̱a'a Lands and other lands and resources in Canada;


b. the jurisdictions, authorities, and rights of Nisg̱a'a Government; and

c. the other Nisg̱a'a section 35 rights.


MODIFICATION


24.
Notwithstanding the common law, as a result of this Agreement and the
settlement legislation, the aboriginal rights, including the aboriginal
title, of the Nisg̱a'a Nation, as they existed anywhere in Canada before
the effective date, including their attributes and geographic extent,
are modified, and continue as modified, as set out in this Agreement.


25.
For greater certainty, the aboriginal title of the Nisg̱a'a Nation
anywhere that it existed in Canada before the effective date is modified
and continues as the estates in fee simple to those areas identified in
this Agreement as Nisg̱a'a Lands or Nisg̱a'a Fee Simple Lands.



RELEASE


26.
If, despite this Agreement and the settlement legislation, the Nisg̱a'a
Nation has an aboriginal right, including aboriginal title, in Canada,
that is other than, or different in attributes or geographical extent
from, the Nisg̱a'a section 35 rights as set out in this Agreement, the
Nisg̱a'a Nation releases that aboriginal right to Canada to the extent
that the aboriginal right is other than, or different in attributes or
geographical extent from, the Nisg̱a'a section 35 rights as set out in
this Agreement.


27.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation releases Canada, British Columbia and all other
persons from all claims, demands, actions, or proceedings, of whatever
kind, and whether known or unknown, that the Nisg̱a'a Nation ever had,
now has or may have in the future, relating to or arising from any act,
or omission, before the effective date that may have affected or
infringed any aboriginal rights, including aboriginal title, in Canada
of the Nisg̱a'a Nation.



CONSULTATION


28.
When Canada and British Columbia have consulted with or provided
information to the Nisg̱a'a Nation in respect of any activity, including
a resource development or extraction activity, in accordance with their
obligations under this Agreement and federal and provincial legislation,
Canada and British Columbia will not have any additional obligations
under this Agreement to consult with or provide information to the
Nisg̱a'a Nation in respect of that activity.



PROVINCIAL LAW


29.
Canada will recommend to Parliament that federal settlement legislation
include a provision that, to the extent that a law of British Columbia
does not apply of its own force to the Nisg̱a'a Nation, Nisg̱a'a Villages,
Nisg̱a'a Institutions, Nisg̱a'a Corporations, or Nisg̱a'a citizens, that
law of British Columbia will, subject to the federal settlement
legislation and any other Act of Parliament, apply in accordance with
this Agreement to the Nisg̱a'a Nation, Nisg̱a'a Villages, Nisg̱a'a
Institutions, Nisg̱a'a Corporations, or Nisg̱a'a citizens, as the case may
be.



INDEMNITIES


30.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation will indemnify and save harmless Canada or British
Columbia, as the case may be, from any:


a. costs, excluding fees and disbursements of solicitors and other
professional advisors;

b. damages;
c. losses; or
d. liabilities

that Canada or British Columbia, respectively, may suffer or incur in
connection with, or as a result of, any claims, demands, actions, or
proceedings relating to, or arising out of, any act, or omission, before
the effective date that may have affected or infringed any aboriginal
rights, including aboriginal title, in Canada of the Nisg̱a'a Nation.


31.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation will indemnify and save harmless Canada or British
Columbia, as the case may be, from any:


a. costs, excluding fees and disbursements of solicitors and other
professional advisors;

b. damages;
c. losses; or
d. liabilities

that Canada or British Columbia, respectively, may suffer or incur in
connection with or as a result of any claims, demands, actions, or
proceedings relating to, or arising out of, the existence of an
aboriginal right, including aboriginal title, in Canada of the Nisg̱a'a
Nation, that is other than, or different in attributes or geographical
extent from, the Nisg̱a'a section 35 rights as set out in this Agreement.


32.
A Party who is the subject of a claim, demand, action, or proceeding
that may give rise to a requirement to provide payment to that Party
pursuant to an indemnity under this Agreement:


a. will vigorously defend the claim, demand, action, or proceeding; and


b. will not settle or compromise the claim, demand, action, or
proceeding except with the consent of the Party who has granted that
indemnity, which consent will not be arbitrarily or unreasonably
withheld or delayed.



OTHER ABORIGINAL PEOPLE


33.
Nothing in this Agreement affects, recognizes, or provides any rights
under section 35 of the
Constitution Act, 1982
for any aboriginal people other than the Nisg̱a'a Nation.


34.
If a superior court of a province, the Federal Court of Canada, or the
Supreme Court of Canada finally determines that any aboriginal people,
other than the Nisg̱a'a Nation, has rights under section 35 of the
Constitution Act, 1982
that are adversely affected by a provision of this Agreement:


a. the provision will operate and have effect to the extent that it does
not adversely affect those rights; and


b. if the provision cannot operate and have effect in a way that it does
not adversely affect those rights, the Parties will make best efforts to
amend this Agreement to remedy or replace the provision.


35.
If Canada or British Columbia enters into a treaty or a land claims
agreement, within the meaning of sections 25 and 35 of the
Constitution Act, 1982
, with another aboriginal people, and that treaty or land claims
agreement adversely affects Nisg̱a'a section 35 rights as set out in this
Agreement:


a. Canada or British Columbia, or both, as the case may be, will provide
the Nisg̱a'a Nation with additional or replacement rights or other
appropriate remedies;


b. at the request of the Nisg̱a'a Nation, the Parties will negotiate and
attempt to reach agreement on the provision of those additional or
replacement rights or other appropriate remedies; and


c. if the Parties are unable to reach agreement on the provision of the
additional or replacement rights or other appropriate remedies, the
provision of those additional or replacement rights or remedies will be
determined in accordance with Stage Three of the Dispute Resolution
Chapter.



AMENDMENT PROVISIONS


36.
Except for any provision of this Agreement that provides that an
amendment requires the consent of only the Nisg̱a'a Nation and either
Canada or British Columbia, all amendments to this Agreement require the
consent of all three Parties.


37.
Canada will give consent to an amendment to this Agreement by order of
the Governor in Council.


38.
British Columbia will give consent to an amendment to this Agreement by
resolution of the Legislature of British Columbia.


39.
If federal or provincial legislation is required to give effect to an
amendment to this Agreement, Canada or British Columbia, as the case may
be, will take all reasonable steps to enact the legislation.


40.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation will give consent to an amendment to this Agreement
by a resolution adopted by at least two thirds of the elected members of
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government.


41.
An amendment to this Agreement takes effect on a date agreed to by the
parties to the amendment, but if no date is agreed to, on the date that
the last Party required to consent to the amendment gives its consent.


42.
Notwithstanding paragraphs 37 to 41, if the Nisg̱a'a Nation adds land to
Nisg̱a'a Lands in accordance with paragraph 9 or 11 of the Lands Chapter,
Appendix A will be deemed to be amended upon receipt by Canada and
British Columbia of the written notice referred to in paragraph 9 or 11
of the Lands Chapter.


43.
Notwithstanding paragraphs 37 to 41, whenever:

a. this Agreement provides:

i. that the Nisg̱a'a Nation and Canada or British Columbia will negotiate
and attempt to reach agreement in respect of a matter that will result
in an amendment to this Agreement, including a change to an Appendix,
and


ii. that if agreement is not reached, the matter will be finally
determined by arbitration under the Dispute Resolution Chapter; and


b. those Parties have negotiated an agreement or the matter is
determined by arbitration


this Agreement will be deemed to be amended on the date the agreement or
arbitrator's decision takes effect, as the case may be.



FREEDOM OF INFORMATION AND PRIVACY


44.
For the purposes of federal and provincial access to information and
privacy legislation, information that Nisg̱a'a Government provides to
Canada or British Columbia in confidence is deemed to be information
received or obtained in confidence from another government.


45.
If Nisg̱a'a Government requests disclosure of information from Canada or
British Columbia, the request will be evaluated as if it were a request
by a province for disclosure of that information, but Canada and British
Columbia are not required to disclose to Nisg̱a'a Government information
that is only available to a particular province or particular provinces.


46.
The Parties may enter into agreements in respect of any one or more of
the collection, protection, retention, use, disclosure, and
confidentiality of personal, general, or other information.


47.
Canada or British Columbia may provide information to Nisg̱a'a Government
in confidence if Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government has made a law or has entered
into an agreement with Canada or British Columbia, as the case may be,
under which the confidentiality of the information will be protected.


48.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement:


a. Canada and British Columbia are not required to disclose any
information that they are required to withhold under any federal or
provincial law;


b. if federal or provincial legislation allows the disclosure of certain
information only if specified conditions for disclosure are satisfied,
Canada and British Columbia are not required to disclose that
information unless those conditions are satisfied; and


c. the Parties are not required to disclose any information that may be
withheld under a privilege at law or under sections 37 to 39 of the
Canada Evidence Act
.



OBLIGATION TO NEGOTIATE


49.
Whenever the Parties are obliged under any provision of this Agreement
to negotiate and attempt to reach agreement, unless the Parties
otherwise agree, all Parties will participate in the negotiations.


50.
Whenever this Agreement provides that the Parties, or any of them, "will
negotiate and attempt to reach agreement", those negotiations will be
conducted as set out in the Dispute Resolution Chapter, but, the Parties
or any of them, are not obliged to proceed to Stage Three of the Dispute
Resolution Chapter unless, in a particular case, they are required to do
so under paragraph 28 of the Dispute Resolution Chapter.


51.
Except as set out in this Agreement, an agreement that is reached as a
result of negotiations that are required or permitted under any
paragraph of this Agreement is not part of this Agreement.



CONFLICT AND INCONSISTENCY


52.
In this Agreement:


a. there is a conflict between laws if compliance with one law would be
a breach of the other law; and


b. laws are not inconsistent merely because they make provision for the
same subject matter.


53.
If a Nisg̱a'a law has an incidental impact on a subject matter in respect
of which Nisg̱a'a Government does not have jurisdiction to make laws, and
there is an inconsistency or conflict between that incidental impact and
a federal or provincial law in respect of that subject matter, the
federal or provincial law prevails to the extent of the inconsistency or
conflict.



ENTIRE AGREEMENT


54.
This Agreement is the entire agreement among the Parties in respect of
the subject matter of this Agreement and, except as set out in this
Agreement, there is no representation, warranty, collateral agreement,
condition, right, or obligation affecting this Agreement.


55.
The Schedules and Appendices to this Agreement form part of this
Agreement.



INTERPRETATION


56.
Except as set out in this Agreement, in the event of an inconsistency or
conflict between a provision of this Chapter and any other provision of
this Agreement, the provision of this Chapter prevails to the extent of
the inconsistency or conflict.


57.
There is no presumption that doubtful expressions, terms or provisions
in this Agreement are to be resolved in favour of any particular Party.


58.
In this Agreement:


a. the use of the word "will" denotes an obligation that, unless this
Agreement provides to the contrary, must be carried out as soon as
practicable after the effective date or the event that gives rise to the
obligation;


b. unless it is otherwise clear from the context, the use of the word
"including" means "including, but not limited to", and the use of the
word "includes" means "includes, but is not limited to";


c. unless it is otherwise clear from the context, a reference to a
"Chapter", "paragraph", "subparagraph", "Schedule", or "Appendix" means
a chapter, paragraph, subparagraph, schedule, or appendix, respectively,
of this Agreement;


d. unless it is otherwise clear from the context, a reference in a
chapter of this Agreement to a "paragraph", "subparagraph", or
"Schedule" means a paragraph, subparagraph, or schedule of that chapter;


e. headings and subheadings are for convenience only, do not form a part
of this Agreement, and in no way define, limit, alter, or enlarge the
scope or meaning of any provision of this Agreement;


f. a reference to a statute includes every amendment to it, every
regulation made under it, and any law enacted in substitution for, or in
replacement of, it;


g. unless it is otherwise clear from the context, "provincial" refers to
the province of British Columbia; and


h. unless it is otherwise clear from the context, the use of the
singular includes the plural, and the use of the plural includes the
singular.



NO IMPLIED WAIVER


59.
A provision of this Agreement, or the performance by a Party of an
obligation under this Agreement, may not be waived unless the waiver is
in writing and signed by the Party or Parties giving the waiver.


60.
No written waiver of a provision of this Agreement, of performance by a
Party of an obligation under this Agreement, or of default by a Party of
an obligation under this Agreement, will be a waiver of any other
provision, obligation, or subsequent default.



TIME OF THE ESSENCE


61.
Time is of the essence in this Agreement.



ASSIGNMENT


62.
Unless otherwise agreed to by the Parties, this Agreement may not be
assigned, either in whole or in part, by any Party.



ENUREMENT


63.
This Agreement will enure to the benefit of and be binding upon the
Parties and their respective permitted assigns.



NOTICE


64.
In paragraphs 65 to 68, "communication" includes a notice, document,
request, approval, authorization, or consent.


65.
Unless otherwise set out in this Agreement, a communication between or
among the Parties under this Agreement must be:

a. delivered personally or by courier;
b. transmitted by fax; or
c. mailed by prepaid registered post in Canada.

66.
A communication will be considered to have been given, made, or
delivered, and received:


a. if delivered personally or by courier, at the start of business on
the next business day after the business day on which it was received by
the addressee or a responsible representative of the addressee;


b. if transmitted by fax and the sender receives confirmation of the
transmission, at the start of business on the business day next
following the day on which it was transmitted; or


c. if mailed by prepaid registered post in Canada, when the postal
receipt is acknowledged by the addressee.


67.
In addition to the provisions of paragraphs 65 and 66, the Parties may
agree to give, make, or deliver a communication by means other than
those provided in paragraph 65.


68.
The Parties will provide to each other addresses for delivery of
communications under this Agreement, and subject to paragraph 69, will
deliver a communication to the address provided by each other Party.


69.
If no other address for delivery of a particular communication has been
provided by a Party, a communication will be delivered, mailed to the
address, or transmitted to the fax number, of the intended recipient as
set out below:






For:


Canada




Attention:

Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development





House of Commons




Room 583, Confederation Building




Ottawa, Ottawa




K1A 0A6



Fax Number:
(819) 953-4941







For:


British Columbia




Attention:
Minister of Aboriginal Affairs




Room 325, Parliament Buildings




Victoria, British Columbia




V8V 1X4



Fax Number:
(250) 356-1124







For:


Nisg̱a'a Nation




Attention:
President




P.O. Box 231




New Aiyansh, British Columbia




V0J 1A0



Fax Number:
(250) 633-2367




70.
A Party may change its address or fax number by giving a notice of the
change to the other Parties.




CHAPTER 3


LANDS



NISG̱A'A LANDS


General


1.
On the effective date, Nisg̱a'a Lands consist of all lands, including
islands, within the boundaries set out in Appendix A except submerged
lands, the Gingietl Creek Ecological Reserve, the Nisg̱a'a Highway
corridor, and the lands within the boundaries set out in Appendix B:


a. Appendix B-1 — land in the vicinity of Red Bluff that has been set
apart as Indian Reserve No. 88;


b. Appendix B-2 — land in respect of which British Columbia has granted
an estate in fee simple;


c. Appendix B-3 — land in respect of which British Columbia has granted
an agriculture lease or woodlot licence; and


d. Appendix B-4 — roads associated with the land referred to in Appendix
B-2.


2.
On the effective date, Nisg̱a'a Lands comprise 1,992 square kilometres,
more or less, of land in the lower Nass Valley, consisting of:

a. 1,930 square kilometres, more or less; and

b. 62 square kilometres, more or less, of lands identified as former
Nisg̱a'a Indian reserves in Appendix A-4, and which cease to be Indian
reserves on the effective date.


Ownership of Nisg̱a'a Lands


3.
On the effective date, the Nisg̱a'a Nation owns Nisg̱a'a Lands in fee
simple, being the largest estate known in law. This estate is not
subject to any condition, proviso, restriction, exception, or
reservation set out in the
Land Act
, or any comparable limitation under any federal or provincial law. No
estate or interest in Nisg̱a'a Lands can be expropriated except as
permitted by, and in accordance with, this Agreement.


4.
In accordance with this Agreement, the Nisg̱a'a Constitution, and Nisg̱a'a
law, the Nisg̱a'a Nation may:


a. dispose of the whole of its estate in fee simple in any parcel of
Nisg̱a'a Lands to any person; and


b. from the whole of its estate in fee simple, or its interest, in any
parcel of Nisg̱a'a Lands, create, or dispose of any lesser estate or
interest to any person, including rights of way and covenants similar to
those in sections 218 and 219 of the
Land Title Act


without the consent of Canada or British Columbia.


5.
A parcel of Nisg̱a'a Lands does not cease to be Nisg̱a'a Lands as a result
of any change in ownership of an estate or interest in that parcel.


6.
All methods of acquiring a right in or over land by prescription or by
adverse possession, including the common law doctrine of prescription
and the doctrine of the lost modern grant, are abolished in respect of
Nisg̱a'a Lands.


7.
If, at any time, any parcel of Nisg̱a'a Lands, or any estate or interest
in a parcel of Nisg̱a'a Lands, finally escheats to the Crown, the Crown
will transfer, at no charge, that parcel, estate or interest to the
Nisg̱a'a Nation.


8.
Neither:


a. any estate or interest of the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village in
any parcel of Nisg̱a'a Lands to which the provincial Torrens system does
not apply; nor


b. any interest, right, privilege or title of the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a
Nisg̱a'a Village reserved or excepted by the Nisg̱a'a Nation or Nisg̱a'a
Village from any creation or disposition of an estate or interest in a
parcel of Nisg̱a'a Lands


is subject to attachment, charge other than charges that are liens in
favour of Canada or British Columbia, seizure, distress, execution, or
sale, except under an instrument, including a mortgage or other security
instrument, in favour of a person and granted by the Nisg̱a'a Nation or
the Nisg̱a'a Village, or if allowed under a law made by Nisg̱a'a Lisims
Government under paragraph 44 of the Nisg̱a'a Government Chapter.


Additions to Nisg̱a'a Lands


9.
If, at any time, the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, a Nisg̱a'a
Corporation, or a Nisg̱a'a citizen owns the estate in fee simple to any
parcel of land within the boundaries set out in Appendix B-1, B-2, or
B-3, the Nisg̱a'a Nation may, with the consent of the owner, add that
parcel of land to Nisg̱a'a Lands. That parcel of land, together with any
roads identified in Appendix B-4 associated with it, will become Nisg̱a'a
Lands upon receipt by Canada and British Columbia of written notice from
the Nisg̱a'a Nation identifying that parcel of land and attaching the
written consent of the owner of that parcel of land.


10.
If, at any time:


a. British Columbia owns the estate in fee simple to any land within the
boundaries set out in Appendix B-2; or


b. any land within the boundaries set out in Appendix B-3 ceases to be
subject to an agriculture lease or a woodlot licence existing on the
effective date


British Columbia will offer to sell the estate in fee simple to that
land to the Nisg̱a'a Nation for a price not to exceed fair market value.


11.
If, at any time, the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, a Nisg̱a'a
Corporation or a Nisg̱a'a citizen owns the estate in fee simple to a
parcel of land that is contiguous with Nisg̱a'a Lands, other than land
referred to in Appendix B-1, B-2, or B-3, the Nisg̱a'a Nation may, with
the consent of the owner and the agreement of Canada and British
Columbia, add the land to Nisg̱a'a Lands. If the owner consents and
Canada, British Columbia, and the Nisg̱a'a Nation agree that the land may
be added to Nisg̱a'a Lands, the land will become Nisg̱a'a Lands upon
receipt by Canada and British Columbia of written notice in accordance
with that agreement.


12.
If the Nisg̱a'a Nation adds a parcel of land to Nisg̱a'a Lands under
paragraph 9 or 11, that land will be subject to:


a. any existing charge, encumbrance, licence, or permit;


b. any subsisting condition, proviso, restriction, exception, or
reservation, contained in:


i. the original grant or disposition from the Crown,


ii. any other grant or disposition from the Crown, or


iii. the
Land Act


other than those in favour of the Crown at the time of the addition of
the parcel of land to Nisg̱a'a Lands; and


c. any limitation under federal or provincial law comparable to those
set out in subparagraph 12(b), other than those in favour of the Crown
at the time of the addition of the parcel of land to Nisg̱a'a Lands.


13.
When a parcel of land becomes Nisg̱a'a Lands under paragraph 9 or 11, any
subsisting condition, proviso, restriction, exception, or reservation
referred to in subparagraph 12(b) or (c) that is in favour of the Crown
at the time of the addition of the parcel of land to Nisg̱a'a Lands, will
terminate.


14.
If the Nisg̱a'a Nation adds a parcel of land to Nisg̱a'a Lands under
paragraph 9 or 11, Appendix A-1, A-2, and A-3, and Appendix B-1, B-2,
B-3, or B-4, as the case may be, will be amended to reflect the change
to the boundaries of Nisg̱a'a Lands.


Boundary Resolution


15.
If a Party provides the other Parties with a proposal to clarify the
location of any part of a boundary of Nisg̱a'a Lands, the Parties will
follow the procedure set out in Schedule A.


Designations of Nisg̱a'a Lands


16.
Nisg̱a'a Lands comprise Nisg̱a'a Public Lands, Nisg̱a'a Private Lands, and
Nisg̱a'a Village Lands.


17.
Nisg̱a'a Public Lands are Nisg̱a'a Lands other than those designated by
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government as Nisg̱a'a Village Lands or Nisg̱a'a Private
Lands.


18.
Nisg̱a'a Private Lands include:


a. lands in which Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government creates an exclusive
interest; and


b. lands that are otherwise required for uses that are incompatible with
public access, including commercial, cultural, or resource development
uses.



MINERAL RESOURCES


19.
For greater certainty, in accordance with paragraph 3, on the effective
date the Nisg̱a'a Nation owns all mineral resources on or under Nisg̱a'a
Lands.


20.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government has the exclusive authority to determine,
collect, and administer any fees, rents, royalties, or other charges in
respect of mineral resources on or under Nisg̱a'a Lands.


21.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government and British Columbia may enter into agreements
in respect of the application on Nisg̱a'a Lands of provincial
administrative systems relating to:

a. claim staking;

b. recording and inspecting of subsurface exploration and development;


c. the collection of fees, rents, royalties, and other charges by
British Columbia on behalf of Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government; and

d. other similar matters.


SUBMERGED LANDS WITHIN NISG̱A'A LANDS


22.
British Columbia owns the submerged lands within Nisg̱a'a Lands.


23.
British Columbia will provide written notice to the Nisg̱a'a Nation of
any proposed disposition of an estate or interest in, or use or
occupation of, submerged lands within Nisg̱a'a Lands.


24.
British Columbia will not, in respect of submerged lands within Nisg̱a'a
Lands:

a. grant an estate in fee simple;

b. grant a lease that, with any rights of renewal, may exceed 25 years;


c. transfer administration and control for a period that may exceed 25
years; or


d. otherwise dispose of an estate or interest in, or authorize the use
or occupation of, submerged lands within Nisg̱a'a Lands if that
disposition, use, or occupation would adversely affect Nisg̱a'a Lands or
Nisg̱a'a interests set out in this Agreement


without the consent of the Nisg̱a'a Nation, which consent will not be
unreasonably withheld.


25.
If the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, or a
Nisg̱a'a citizen applies to British Columbia to acquire an estate or
interest in, or for authorization to use or occupy, submerged lands
within Nisg̱a'a Lands, British Columbia will not unreasonably refuse to
grant the estate or interest or to issue the authorization if:


a. the Nisg̱a'a Nation has consented to the acquisition, use, or
occupation; and


b. the proposed acquisition or authorization conforms to provincial law
respecting the disposition, use, or occupation of submerged lands within
British Columbia.


26.
A dispute as to whether:


a. the Nisg̱a'a Nation is unreasonably withholding consent under
paragraph 24; or


b. British Columbia is unreasonably refusing to grant an estate or
interest, or to issue an authorization, under paragraph 25


will be finally determined by arbitration under the Dispute Resolution
Chapter.


27.
For greater certainty, paragraphs 22 to 26 do not affect any property
rights of upland owners of Nisg̱a'a Lands adjacent to submerged lands.



INTERESTS ON NISG̱A'A LANDS


Definition of "Interests"


28.
In paragraphs 29 to 41,
"interests"
includes estates, interests, charges, mineral claims, encumbrances,
licences, and permits.


Former Interests Cease to Exist


29.
On the effective date:


a. the Nisg̱a'a Nation's title to Nisg̱a'a Lands is free and clear of all
interests, except:


i. those granted or issued under paragraphs 30 to 40,

ii. those referred to in paragraph 41,

iii. those continued or issued under the transition provisions of the
Forest Resources Chapter, and


iv. those granted under the Roads and Rights of Way Chapter; and


b. subject to paragraph 41, and the transition provisions of the Forest
Resources Chapter, every interest that, before the effective date,
encumbered or applied to the lands that are Nisg̱a'a Lands, ceases to
exist.


Replacement Interests


30.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation, in accordance with paragraphs 31 to 40, and the
Roads and Rights of Way Chapter, will grant or issue interests to those
persons who are named in Appendix C-1 as persons who, immediately before
the effective date, had interests in the lands that comprise Nisg̱a'a
Lands on the effective date.


31.
On the effective date, the Nisg̱a'a Nation will execute documents
granting or issuing to each person named in Appendix C-1 that person's
interest, as set out in that Appendix.


32.
A document executed under paragraph 31 for an interest set out in Part I
of Appendix C-1 will be in the applicable form set out in Appendix C-2
and will include any modifications agreed upon in writing before the
effective date by the Nisg̱a'a Tribal Council and the person entitled to
the interest.


33.
On the effective date, the Nisg̱a'a Nation will issue to each person
named in Appendix C-5 a certificate of possession for the parcel of
Nisg̱a'a Lands ascribed to that person and described in Appendix C-5.


34.
On the effective date, the Nisg̱a'a Nation will issue to each person
named in Appendix C-6 a certificate of possession for the parcel of
Nisg̱a'a Lands ascribed to that person and described in Appendix C-6.


35.
A person to whom the Nisg̱a'a Nation issues a certificate of possession
under paragraph 33 or 34 will have substantially the same right to
possess the described parcel of Nisg̱a'a Lands as the person would have
had as the holder of a certificate of possession under the
Indian Act
immediately before the effective date, modified to reflect Nisg̱a'a
Government jurisdiction over, and Nisg̱a'a Nation ownership of, Nisg̱a'a
Lands.


36.
After the effective date, the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village may,
in accordance with Nisg̱a'a law, replace the certificates of possession
issued under paragraphs 33 or 34 with estates or interests in, or
licences to use or possess, the described parcels of Nisg̱a'a Lands. If
the certificates of possession are replaced with licences, the licences
will include rights to use and possess the land comparable to, or
greater than, those set out in those certificates of possession.


37.
A document referred to in paragraph 31, 33 or 34, or in paragraph 7 of
the Roads and Rights of Way Chapter, will be deemed to be:


a. delivered by the Nisg̱a'a Nation on the effective date; and


b. executed and delivered by each person referred to in those paragraphs
on the effective date, whether or not the document is actually executed
or delivered by that person.


38.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation will, as soon as practicable after the effective
date, physically deliver the applicable document:


a. to each person named in Appendix C-1, C-5, or C-6; or


b. to any other person who, before the effective date:


i. was identified in writing to the Nisg̱a'a Tribal Council by Canada or
British Columbia as the person who, instead of a person named in
Appendix C-1 or C-5, should receive an interest referred to in Appendix
C-1 or C-5 by reason of death, any form of transfer, error or operation
of law, or


ii. was identified in writing to Canada and British Columbia by the
Nisg̱a'a Tribal Council as the person who, instead of a person named in
Appendix C-6, should receive an interest referred to in Appendix C-6 by
reason of death, any form of transfer, error or operation of law


and the Appendix will be amended to reflect the change.


39.
If Canada or British Columbia notifies the Nisg̱a'a Nation that an
interest granted under paragraph 30, 31, 33, or 34:


a. is in the name of a person who was not actually entitled to the
interest on the effective date; or


b. contains a clerical error or a wrong description of a material fact


the appropriate Parties will take reasonable measures to rectify the
error.


40.
Any right of way of the nature described in section 218 of the
Land Title Act
that is granted by the Nisg̱a'a Nation under this Agreement is legally
binding and enforceable notwithstanding that the Nisg̱a'a Lands to which
the right of way relates are not subject to the
Land Title Act
.


Licences and Traplines


41.
The traplines, guide outfitter licence and certificate, and angling
guide licences set out in Appendix C-7 are retained by the persons who
hold those interests on the effective date in accordance with provincial
laws of general application and the Wildlife and Migratory Birds
Chapter. If an interest referred to in this paragraph is not renewed or
replaced, that interest will cease to exist.


Indemnities


42.
British Columbia will indemnify and save harmless the Nisg̱a'a Nation
from any damages, losses, liabilities, or costs, excluding fees and
disbursements of solicitors and other professional advisors, that the
Nisg̱a'a Nation may suffer or incur in connection with or as a result of
any claims, demands, actions, or proceedings relating to or arising out
of:


a. the omission from Appendix C-1 of the name of a person who,
immediately before the effective date, had an interest in Nisg̱a'a Lands
that had been granted by British Columbia; or


b. the incorrect naming of a person in Appendix C-1 as a person entitled
to an interest, where another person was actually entitled, immediately
before the effective date, to the interest in Nisg̱a'a Lands that had
been granted by British Columbia.


43.
Canada will indemnify and save harmless the Nisg̱a'a Nation from any
damages, losses, liabilities, or costs, excluding fees and disbursements
of solicitors and other professional advisors, that the Nisg̱a'a Nation
may suffer or incur in connection with or as a result of any claims,
demands, actions, or proceedings relating to or arising out of:


a. the omission from Appendix C-1 or C-5 of the name of a person who,
immediately before the effective date, had an interest in or a
certificate of possession in respect of Nisg̱a'a Lands that had been
granted by Canada; or


b. the incorrect naming of a person in Appendix C-1 or C-5 as a person
entitled to an interest or certificate of possession, where another
person was actually entitled, immediately before the effective date, to
the interest or the certificate of possession in respect of Nisg̱a'a
Lands that had been granted by Canada.



SITE REMEDIATION


44.
British Columbia will inspect the sites set out in Schedule B and will
undertake, or cause to be undertaken, appropriate remediation of any
contamination at each site as follows:


a. British Columbia, or the person undertaking the remediation, will
give notice to the Nisg̱a'a Nation no more than 60 days before commencing
the remediation; and


b. whether a site is contaminated, and the nature and extent of the
appropriate remediation, will be determined under British Columbia law
and, for the purposes of those determinations, the use of the site will
be deemed to be either:


i. the actual use of the site on the date of the notice under
subparagraph (a); or


ii. if the site is not in use on the date of the notice under
subparagraph (a), the use identified in Schedule B.



NISG̱A'A FEE SIMPLE LANDS OUTSIDE NISG̱A'A LANDS


45.
Nisg̱a'a Fee Simple Lands consist of Category A Lands and Category B
Lands as described in Appendix D.


Category A Lands


46.
Category A Lands are the parcels of land set out in Appendix D-2 and
D-3, and consist of:


a. the lands identified as former Nisg̱a'a Indian reserves in Appendix
D-2 and D-3; and


b. certain lands adjacent to some of those former Nisg̱a'a Indian
reserves.


47.
On the effective date, the lands outside Nisg̱a'a Lands that are
identified as former Nisg̱a'a Indian reserves in Appendix D-2 and D-3
cease to be Indian reserves.


48.
On the effective date, the Nisg̱a'a Nation owns the estate in fee simple
to Category A Lands.


49.
The estate in fee simple to Category A Lands is subject to the rights
referred to in subparagraph 50 (1) (a) (iii) of the
Land Act
but is not subject to any other conditions, provisos, restrictions,
exceptions, or reservations set out in section 50 of the
Land Act
, and no estate or interest in Category A Lands can be expropriated from
the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, or a
Nisg̱a'a citizen except as permitted by, and in accordance with, this
Agreement.


50.
On the effective date, subject to paragraph 51, the estate in fee simple
to Category A Lands is free and clear of all estates, interests,
charges, mineral claims, encumbrances, licences, and permits, except
those set out in Appendix D-4.


51.
On the effective date, the Nisg̱a'a Nation owns all mineral resources on
or under Category A Lands, free and clear of all estates, interests,
charges, mineral claims, encumbrances, licences, and permits, except for
the mineral claims set out in Appendix D-4.


52.
On the effective date, British Columbia owns the submerged lands within
the Category A Lands other than the submerged lands within the Category
A Lands described in Appendix D-2 as former I.R. Nos. 24, 27, and 27A,
and extensions, and those submerged lands are owned by the Nisg̱a'a
Nation.


53.
A parcel of Category A Lands ceases to be Category A Lands if no estate
or interest in that parcel is owned by the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a
Village, a Nisg̱a'a  Corporation or a Nisg̱a'a citizen.


54.
If the Nisg̱a'a Nation disposes of the estate in fee simple in the
Category A Lands described in Appendix D-2 as former I.R. No. 15 and
extension, it will reserve to itself a blanket right of way for the
purpose of providing road access across that parcel to adjacent lands.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation will, on request of British Columbia, assign the
benefit of the right of way over that portion of that parcel upon which
the forest service road existing on the effective date is located, in
accordance with the following:


a. any assignment will be on reasonable terms, including the location of
the requested right of way area, its width considering the intended use,
its effect on neighbouring lands and payment of fair compensation, but,
notwithstanding subparagraph (d) of the definition of "fair
compensation", particular cultural values will not be included in the
determination of fair compensation; and


b. if British Columbia and the Nisg̱a'a Nation are unable to agree on the
terms of the assignment, including the reasonableness of the proposed
terms or location of the requested right of way area, the terms of the
assignment will be finally determined by arbitration under the Dispute
Resolution Chapter, but the arbitrator will not have authority to
require British Columbia to accept an assignment of the right of way.


Provincial Expropriation of Category A Lands


55.
A provincial expropriating authority may expropriate an estate or
interest in Category A Lands from the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village,
a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, or a Nisg̱a'a citizen under provincial legislation
only if the expropriation is:


a. justifiable and necessary for a provincial public purpose;


b. of the smallest estate or interest necessary, and for the shortest
time required, for that provincial public purpose;


c. by and for the use of a provincial ministry or agent of the
provincial Crown; and


d. with the consent of the Lieutenant Governor in Council.


56.
If a provincial expropriating authority expropriates less than the
estate in fee simple in Category A Lands from the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a
Nisg̱a'a Village, a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, or a Nisg̱a'a citizen, British
Columbia will provide the owner of the interest expropriated with fair
compensation.


57.
If a provincial expropriating authority expropriates the estate in fee
simple, including the mineral resources, in Category A Lands from the
Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, or a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, British
Columbia will provide the owner of the estate in fee simple with:

a. equivalent Crown land if:

i. the owner and the Nisg̱a'a Nation request compensation in the form of
equivalent Crown land, and

ii. equivalent Crown land is available; or
b. fair compensation if:

i. the owner and the Nisg̱a'a Nation do not request equivalent Crown
land,

ii. equivalent Crown land is not available, or

iii. the owner, the Nisg̱a'a Nation, and British Columbia otherwise
agree.


58.
If a provincial expropriating authority expropriates the estate in fee
simple, including the mineral resources, in Category A Lands from a
Nisg̱a'a citizen, British Columbia will provide the owner of the estate
in fee simple with fair compensation.


59.
If a provincial expropriating authority expropriates the estate in fee
simple, excluding any mineral resources, in Category A Lands under
paragraph 55, the owner of the estate in fee simple and the Nisg̱a'a
Nation may require British Columbia to include the mineral resources in
the expropriation. If the owner and the Nisg̱a'a Nation require British
Columbia to include the mineral resources in the expropriation,
paragraph 57 applies to the expropriation.


60.
Unless British Columbia and the Nisg̱a'a Nation otherwise agree, any
lands provided by British Columbia to the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a
Village, a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, or a Nisg̱a'a citizen as compensation for
an expropriation of an estate or interest in Category A Lands will
become Category A Lands.


Category B Lands


61.
Category B Lands are the parcels of land outside Nisg̱a'a Lands set out
in Appendix D-6 and D-7.


62.
On the effective date, the Nisg̱a'a Nation owns the estate in fee simple
to Category B Lands.


63.
The estate in fee simple to Category B Lands is subject to the
conditions, provisos, restrictions, exceptions, and reservations set out
in paragraph 50 (1) (a) of the
Land Act
, except that set out in subparagraph 50 (1) (a) (i) of the
Land Act
, but no estate or interest in Category B Lands can be expropriated from
the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, or a
Nisg̱a'a citizen except as permitted by, and in accordance with, this
Agreement.


64.
On the effective date, subject to paragraph 65, the estate in fee simple
to Category B Lands is free and clear of all estates, interests,
charges, mineral claims, encumbrances, licences, and permits, except
those set out in Appendix D-8.


65.
On the effective date, British Columbia owns the submerged lands within
the Category B Lands.


66.
On the effective date, British Columbia owns the mineral resources on or
under the Category B Lands that are reserved to the Crown under
subparagraph 50 (1) (a) (ii) of the
Land Act
.


67.
A parcel of Category B Land ceases to be Category B Lands if no estate
or interest in that parcel is owned by the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a
Village, a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, or a Nisg̱a'a citizen.


Provincial Expropriation of Category B Lands


68.
A provincial expropriating authority may expropriate the estate in fee
simple or any interest in Category B Lands from the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a
Nisg̱a'a Village, a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, or a Nisg̱a'a citizen under
provincial legislation only if compensation is provided in accordance
with paragraphs 69 to 72.


69.
If a provincial expropriating authority expropriates less than the
estate in fee simple in Category B Lands from the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a
Nisg̱a'a Village, a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, or a Nisg̱a'a citizen, British
Columbia will provide the owner of the interest expropriated with fair
compensation.


70.
If a provincial expropriating authority expropriates the estate in fee
simple in Category B Lands from the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village,
or a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, British Columbia will provide the owner of the
estate in fee simple with:

a. equivalent Crown land if:

i. the owner and the Nisg̱a'a Nation request compensation in the form of
equivalent Crown land, and

ii. equivalent Crown land is available; or
b. fair compensation if:

i. the owner and the Nisg̱a'a Nation do not request equivalent Crown
Land,

ii. equivalent Crown land is not available, or

iii. the owner, the Nisg̱a'a Nation and British Columbia otherwise agree.


71.
If British Columbia expropriates the estate in fee simple in Category B
Lands from a Nisg̱a'a citizen, British Columbia will provide the owner
with fair compensation.


72.
Unless British Columbia and the Nisg̱a'a Nation otherwise agree, any
lands provided by British Columbia to the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a
Village, a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, or a Nisg̱a'a citizen as compensation for
an expropriation of an estate or interest in Category B Lands will
become Category B Lands.




FEDERAL ACQUISITION OF INTERESTS IN NISG̱A'A LANDS AND NISG̱A'A FEE
SIMPLE LANDS



General


73.
Canada acknowledges that it is of fundamental importance to maintain the
size and integrity of Nisg̱a'a Lands and Nisg̱a'a Fee Simple Lands, and
therefore, as a general principle, estates or interests in Nisg̱a'a
Lands, or Nisg̱a'a Fee Simple Lands, will not be expropriated under
federal legislation.


Governor in Council Consent


74.
Notwithstanding paragraph 73, an estate or interest in a parcel of
Nisg̱a'a Lands, or Nisg̱a'a Fee Simple Lands, may be expropriated under
federal legislation if the Governor in Council consents to the
expropriation.


75.
The Governor in Council will consent to an expropriation of an estate or
interest in a parcel of Nisg̱a'a Lands, or Nisg̱a'a Fee Simple Lands, only
if the expropriation:


a. is justifiable and necessary for a federal public purpose; and


b. is of the smallest estate or interest necessary, and for the shortest
time required, for that federal public purpose.


76.
The Governor in Council will not consent to an expropriation of a parcel
of Nisg̱a'a Lands, or Nisg̱a'a Fee Simple Lands, if other lands suitable
for the federal public purpose are reasonably available.


77.
Before the Governor in Council considers an expropriation of an estate
or interest in a parcel of Nisg̱a'a Lands, or Nisg̱a'a Fee Simple Lands,
it will ensure that Canada has:

a. consulted the Nisg̱a'a Nation;

b. ensured that reasonable efforts have been made to acquire the estate
or interest through agreement with the owner of the estate or interest;
and


c. provided the Nisg̱a'a Nation with all information relevant to the
expropriation other than federal Cabinet documents.


78.
If the Governor in Council consents to an expropriation, Canada will
provide the Nisg̱a'a Nation with the reasons for the expropriation.


Effect of Expropriation


79.
If an estate or interest in a parcel of Nisg̱a'a Lands is expropriated
under paragraph 74, Nisg̱a'a laws continue to apply to that parcel of
land except to the extent that those laws are inconsistent with the
ability to use and occupy that land for the purpose for which that
estate or interest was expropriated.


80.
If less than the estate in fee simple as described in paragraph 3 in a
parcel of Nisg̱a'a Lands is expropriated under paragraph 74, the owner of
the estate in fee simple in that parcel of land may continue to use and
occupy that land, except to the extent that the use or occupation is
inconsistent with the purpose for which that estate or interest was
expropriated.


81.
If there is an expropriation under paragraph 74 of the estate in fee
simple as described in paragraph 3 in a parcel of Nisg̱a'a Lands, or of
the estate in fee simple in a parcel of Nisg̱a'a Fee Simple Lands, Canada
will, at the request of Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government, ensure that
reasonable efforts are made to acquire alternative land of equivalent
significance and value to offer as part or all of the compensation for
the expropriation. Any alternative land that is contiguous with Nisg̱a'a
Lands may become Nisg̱a'a Lands in accordance with paragraph 9.


82.
Canada will ensure that the owner of the estate or interest that is
expropriated under paragraph 74 receives compensation, taking into
account:


a. the cost of acquiring alternative land of equivalent significance and
value;


b. the market value of the estate or interest that is expropriated;


c. the replacement value of any improvements on the land that is
expropriated;

d. disturbance caused by the expropriation; and

e. if the owner of the estate or interest that is expropriated is the
Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, or a Nisg̱a'a
citizen, any adverse effect on any cultural or other special value of
the land to the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village.


83.
If less than the estate in fee simple as described in paragraph 3 in a
parcel of Nisg̱a'a Lands, or less than the estate in fee simple in a
parcel of Nisg̱a'a Fee Simple Lands, has been expropriated under
paragraph 74 but is no longer required for the purpose for which it was
expropriated, Canada will ensure that the interest in those lands is
transferred at no charge to the owner of the estate in fee simple. The
terms of that transfer will be negotiated by the Nisg̱a'a Nation and
Canada at the time of the expropriation.


84.
If the estate in fee simple as described in paragraph 3 in a parcel of
Nisg̱a'a Lands, or a parcel of Nisg̱a'a Fee Simple Lands, has been
expropriated under paragraph 74 but is no longer required for the
purpose for which it was expropriated, Canada will ensure that the
estate in fee simple is transferred at no charge to the Nisg̱a'a Nation
or the Nisg̱a'a Village, as the case may be. The terms of that transfer
will be negotiated by the Nisg̱a'a Nation and Canada at the time of the
expropriation.


85.
The consent of the Governor in Council is not required to determine
whether the estate or interest is no longer required for the purpose for
which it was expropriated.


86.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation or Canada may refer a dispute in respect of the value
and nature of the compensation, or the terms of transfer, to be finally
determined by arbitration under the Dispute Resolution Chapter.



INITIAL SURVEYS


87.
Before the effective date, or as soon as practicable after the effective
date, surveys will be conducted of the boundaries of Nisg̱a'a Lands and
Nisg̱a'a Fee Simple Lands in accordance with instructions to be issued by
the Surveyor General of British Columbia and approved by the Parties
(the "Initial Surveys").


88.
British Columbia and Canada will, as agreed between them, pay the full
cost of the Initial Surveys.


89.
The Parties may, before or after the effective date, amend Appendices A
and D to reflect minor adjustments that may be agreed upon by the
Parties as a result of the Initial Surveys.



COMMERCIAL RECREATION TENURE


90.
After the effective date, at the request of the Nisg̱a'a Nation, British
Columbia will issue a commercial recreation tenure (the "Nisg̱a'a
commercial recreation tenure") to the Nisg̱a'a Nation, or to a Nisg̱a'a
Corporation designated by the Nisg̱a'a Nation, for the areas set out in
Appendix E based on the "Nisg̱a'a Commercial Recreation Tenure Management
Plan" developed by the Nisg̱a'a Tribal Council and British Columbia and
approved on July 6, 1998.


91.
The term of the Nisg̱a'a commercial recreation tenure will be 27 years.


92.
If no request is made under paragraph 90 within 90 days after the
effective date, British Columbia will issue the Nisg̱a'a commercial
recreation tenure to the Nisg̱a'a Nation no later than 100 days after the
effective date.


93.
The first seven years of the term of the Nisg̱a'a commercial recreation
tenure will be a phase-in period, and during that period:


a. the Nisg̱a'a commercial recreation tenure will permit, but not
require, the Nisg̱a'a Nation or the designated Nisg̱a'a Corporation to
carry out activities in accordance with the Nisg̱a'a Commercial
Recreation Tenure Management Plan; and


b. British Columbia will not issue another commercial recreation tenure
within the areas set out in Appendix E that conflicts with the Nisg̱a'a
Commercial Recreation Tenure Management Plan.


94.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation may, with the consent of British Columbia, which
consent will not be unreasonably withheld, assign the Nisg̱a'a commercial
recreation tenure to a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, and upon that assignment
British Columbia will release the Nisg̱a'a Nation from any obligations
under the tenure that are assumed by the assignee.



HERITAGE SITES AND KEY GEOGRAPHIC FEATURES


95.
On the effective date, British Columbia will designate as provincial
heritage sites the sites of cultural and historic significance outside
Nisg̱a'a Lands that are set out in Appendix F-1. The Parties acknowledge
that those sites may have cultural or historic significance to persons
or groups other than the Nisg̱a'a Nation.


96.
On the effective date, British Columbia will:


a. record the Nisg̱a'a names and historic background information for the
geographic features that are set out in Appendix F-2 in the British
Columbia Geographic Names data base (BCGNIS); and


b. name or rename in the Nisg̱a'a language the geographic features that
are set out in Appendix F-3.


97.
After the effective date, the Nisg̱a'a Nation may propose that British
Columbia name or rename other geographic features with Nisg̱a'a names,
and British Columbia will consider those proposals in accordance with
applicable provincial laws.



PARKS AND ECOLOGICAL RESERVE


Definitions


98.
In paragraphs 99 to 118:


a.
"Park"
means

Anhluut'ukwsim La
x
mihl Angwinga'asanskwhl

Nisg̱a'a
,
the Nisg̱a'a Memorial Lava Bed Park; and


b.
"Ecological Reserve"
means the Gingietl Creek Ecological Reserve, #115.


General


99.
Subject to this Agreement, British Columbia's authority and
responsibilities in respect of the Park and the Ecological Reserve will
continue.


100.
Subject to paragraph 101, Nisg̱a'a citizens have the right to traditional
uses of the lands and resources within the Park and the Ecological
Reserve, including domestic resource harvesting, in accordance with this
Agreement and in a manner consistent with any management plan agreed to
by the Nisg̱a'a Nation and British Columbia.


101.
Unless the Nisg̱a'a Nation and British Columbia otherwise agree, British
Columbia will not permit commercial resource extraction or other
commercial activity within the Park or the Ecological Reserve.


102.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation has the right to participate in the planning,
management, and development of the Park and the Ecological Reserve in
accordance with this Agreement.




Anhluut'ukwsim La
x
mihl Angwinga'asanskwhl Nisg̱a'a

, Nisg̱a'a Memorial Lava Bed Park



103.
Unless the Nisg̱a'a Nation and British Columbia otherwise agree, British
Columbia will continue the Park as a Class "A" provincial park or a
provincial park with an equivalent classification.


104.
On the effective date, the boundaries of the Park are as set out in
Appendix G-1.


105.
Nisg̱a'a history and culture are, and will be promoted as, the primary
cultural features of the Park.


106.
In order to facilitate the planning, management, and development of the
Park, British Columbia and the Nisg̱a'a Nation will continue the Joint
Park Management Committee that was established under the Memorandum of
Understanding between the Nisg̱a'a Tribal Council and British Columbia
dated April 30, 1992.


107.
The Joint Park Management Committee will review and make recommendations
to the Minister and Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government in respect of:


a. the development and periodic revision of the master plan, and all
other plans, applicable to or proposed for the Park;


b. encumbrances, park use permits, and other interests and
authorizations, applicable to or proposed for the Park;


c. any business plans, operations budgets, and capital budgets proposed
for the Park;


d. archaeological and other research projects, cultural and interpretive
programs, publications, and communications strategies proposed for the
Park or the Ecological Reserve;


e. planning and management of activities, including development, on
Crown land and Nisg̱a'a Lands that could affect the Park;


f. issues relating to the management of the Ecological Reserve; and


g. issues relating to traditional uses of resources, including cedar
trees.


108.
The Joint Park Management Committee has no more than six members. The
Nisg̱a'a Nation and British Columbia will each appoint no more than three
members as their representatives.


109.
The Joint Park Management Committee will meet as often as is necessary
to carry out its responsibilities, and will establish its procedures.


110.
Whenever possible, the Joint Park Management Committee will carry out
its responsibilities by consensus. If there is no consensus, the Joint
Park Management Committee will submit the recommendations of each
Party's representatives.


111.
After considering the recommendations of the Joint Park Management
Committee made under paragraph 107, the Minister, on a timely basis,
will approve or reject in whole or in part the recommendations, other
than those in respect of Nisg̱a'a Lands, made by the Joint Park
Management Committee or its members, and will provide written reasons
for rejecting in whole or in part those recommendations. Any approval or
rejection of a recommendation will be consistent with this Agreement.


112.
If special circumstances make it impracticable to receive
recommendations from the Joint Park Management Committee, the Minister:


a. may make the decision or take the action that the Minister considers
necessary, without receiving recommendations from the Joint Park
Management Committee;


b. will advise Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government and the Joint Park Management
Committee as soon as practicable of that decision or action; and


c. will provide Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government and the Joint Park Management
Committee with written reasons for that decision or action.


113.
British Columbia has the responsibility to fund the Park in accordance
with appropriations for parks in British Columbia. British Columbia will
provide similar treatment over time to the Park as it generally provides
to comparable parks in British Columbia.


Gingietl Creek Ecological Reserve


114.
Unless the Nisg̱a'a Nation and British Columbia otherwise agree, British
Columbia will continue the Ecological Reserve as an ecological reserve
or another equivalent designation.


115.
On the effective date, the boundaries of the Ecological Reserve are as
set out in Appendix G-2.


116.
At the request of the Nisg̱a'a Nation, the Nisg̱a'a Nation and British
Columbia will jointly determine whether, and the terms and conditions
under which, a road across the Ecological Reserve can be located,
constructed, and controlled, in a manner that will have minimal adverse
impact on the unique ecological values for which the Ecological Reserve
was established.


117.
If it is determined under paragraph 116 or 118 that a road across the
Ecological Reserve can be constructed, the Nisg̱a'a Nation may construct,
operate, and maintain the road as if it were a Nisg̱a'a road that is not
within Nisg̱a'a Village Lands, and British Columbia will issue to the
Nisg̱a'a Nation an exclusive and perpetual right of way for those
purposes, in accordance with the terms and conditions determined under
paragraph 116 or 118.


118.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation or British Columbia may refer a dispute under
paragraph 116 or 117 to be finally determined by arbitration under the
Dispute Resolution Chapter.


Other Parks


119.
British Columbia will consult with the Nisg̱a'a Nation in respect of
planning and management of other provincial parks in the Nass Area.


120.
On the effective date, British Columbia will establish, and thereafter
continue, Bear Glacier Park as a Class "A" provincial park, or a
provincial park with an equivalent classification, with the boundaries
set out in Appendix G-3.


121.
At the request of any of the Parties, the Parties will negotiate and
attempt to reach agreement on the establishment of a marine park in the
Nass Area, but, for greater certainty, Canada is not obliged to
establish a national park, national park reserve, or a national marine
park, or to reach agreement on the establishment of a national park,
national park reserve, or a national marine park.



WATER VOLUMES


Nisg̱a'a Water Reservation


122.
On the effective date, British Columbia will establish a Nisg̱a'a water
reservation, in favour of the Nisg̱a'a Nation, of 300,000 cubic
decametres of water per year from:

a. the Nass River; and

b. other streams wholly or partially within Nisg̱a'a Lands


for domestic, industrial, and agricultural purposes.


123.
The Nisg̱a'a water reservation will have priority over all water licences
other than:


a. water licences issued before March 22, 1996; and


b. water licences issued pursuant to an application made before March
22, 1996.


124.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, or a
Nisg̱a'a citizen may, with the consent of the Nisg̱a'a Nation, apply to
British Columbia for water licences for volumes of flow to be applied
against the Nisg̱a'a water reservation.


125.
The total volume of flow under water licences to be applied against the
Nisg̱a'a water reservation of each stream may not exceed:


a. the percentage of the available flow, specified in Schedule C, of
each stream set out in that Schedule; or


b. 50% of the available flow of any stream not set out in Schedule C.


126.
If the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, or a
Nisg̱a'a citizen applies to British Columbia for a water licence for a
volume of flow to be applied against the Nisg̱a'a water reservation and:


a. the Nisg̱a'a Nation has consented to the application;


b. the application conforms to provincial regulatory requirements;


c. the application is for a volume of flow that, together with the total
volume of flow licenced for that stream under this paragraph, does not
exceed the percentage of available flow for that stream referred to in
paragraph 125; and


d. there is a sufficient unlicensed volume of flow in the Nisg̱a'a water
reservation


British Columbia will approve the application and issue the water
licence. The volume of flow approved in a water licence issued under
this paragraph will be deducted from the unlicensed volume of flow in
the Nisg̱a'a water reservation.


127.
If a water licence issued under paragraph 126 is cancelled, expires, or
otherwise terminates, the volume of flow in that licence will be added
to the unlicensed volume of flow in the Nisg̱a'a water reservation.


128.
A water licence issued under paragraph 126 will not be subject to any
rentals, fees, or other charges by British Columbia.


129.
If the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, or a
Nisg̱a'a citizen applies to British Columbia for a water licence for a
volume of flow from a stream wholly or partially within Nisg̱a'a Lands
and:


a. all of the available flow for that stream referred to in paragraph
125 is licensed under paragraph 126;


b. the Nisg̱a'a Nation has consented to the application;


c. the application conforms to provincial regulatory requirements; and

d. the stream contains a sufficient volume of:
i. unrecorded water, and

ii. flow to ensure conservation of fish and stream habitats, and to
continue navigability, as determined by the Minister in accordance with
the provisions of this Agreement


to meet the volume of flow requested in the application


British Columbia will approve the application and issue the water
licence. The volume of flow approved in a water licence issued under
this paragraph will not be deducted from the unlicensed volume of flow
in the Nisg̱a'a water reservation.


130.
British Columbia will consult with the Nisg̱a'a Nation about all
applications for water licences in respect of streams wholly or
partially within Nisg̱a'a Lands.


131.
If a person other than the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, a Nisg̱a'a
Corporation, or a Nisg̱a'a citizen has a water licence and reasonably
requires access across, or an interest in, Nisg̱a'a Lands for the
construction, maintenance, improvement, or operation of works authorized
under the licence, Nisg̱a'a Government may not unreasonably withhold
consent to, and will take reasonable steps to ensure, that access or the
granting of that interest, if:


a. the licence holder offers fair compensation to the owner of the
estate or interest affected; and


b. the licence holder and the owner of the estate or interest affected
agree on the terms of the access or the interest, including the
location, size, duration, and nature of the interest.


132.
If the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, or a
Nisg̱a'a citizen has a water licence approved under paragraph 126 or 129
and reasonably requires access across, or an interest in, Crown land for
the construction, maintenance, improvement, or operation of works
authorized under the licence, British Columbia will grant the access or
interest on reasonable terms.


133.
British Columbia or the Nisg̱a'a Nation may refer a dispute arising under
paragraph 131 or 132 to be finally determined by arbitration under the
Dispute Resolution Chapter.


134.
If the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, or a
Nisg̱a'a citizen has a water licence approved under paragraph 126 or 129
and reasonably requires access across, or an interest in, lands set out
in Appendix B-2 for the construction, maintenance, improvement, or
operation of works authorized under the licence, the Nisg̱a'a Nation,
Nisg̱a'a Village, Nisg̱a'a Corporation, or Nisg̱a'a citizen may acquire the
access or interest in accordance with provincial laws of general
application.


135.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation may nominate a water bailiff under the
Water Act
for:


a. that portion of the Nass River within Nisg̱a'a Lands; and


b. other streams wholly or partially within Nisg̱a'a Lands


and British Columbia will not unreasonably withhold appointment of that
nominee.


136.
Notwithstanding paragraph 128, if British Columbia appoints a water
bailiff nominated by the Nisg̱a'a Nation under paragraph 135, the water
bailiff will be compensated in accordance with provincial laws of
general application.


137.
This Agreement is not intended to grant the Nisg̱a'a Nation any property
in water.


138.
This Agreement does not preclude the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village,
a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, or a Nisg̱a'a citizen from selling water in
accordance with federal and provincial laws.


139.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, or a
Nisg̱a'a citizen may apply in accordance with provincial laws of general
application for a water licence in respect of a stream wholly outside
Nisg̱a'a Lands.


Nisg̱a'a Hydro Power Reservation


140.
In addition to the Nisg̱a'a water reservation established under paragraph
122, British Columbia will establish a water reservation in favour of
the Nisg̱a'a Nation, for 20 years after the effective date, of all of the
unrecorded waters of all streams, other than the Nass River, that are
wholly or partially within Nisg̱a'a Lands (the "Nisg̱a'a Hydro Power
Reservation"), to enable the Nisg̱a'a Nation to investigate the
suitability of those streams for hydro power purposes, including related
storage purposes.


141.
If the Nisg̱a'a Nation applies for a water reservation for hydro power
purposes on a stream subject to the Nisg̱a'a Hydro Power Reservation,
British Columbia will, after considering the results of any
investigations referred to in paragraph 140, establish a water
reservation for hydro power purposes and any related storage purposes on
the unrecorded waters of that stream if it considers that stream to be
suitable for hydro power purposes.


142.
If British Columbia establishes a water reservation for a stream under
paragraph 141, the Nisg̱a'a Hydro Power Reservation will terminate in
respect of that stream.


143.
If, after British Columbia establishes a water reservation under
paragraph 141, the Nisg̱a'a Nation applies for a water licence for hydro
power purposes and any related storage purposes for a volume of flow
from the stream subject to that water reservation, British Columbia will
grant the water licence if the proposed hydro power project conforms to
federal and provincial regulatory requirements.


144.
If British Columbia issues a water licence under paragraph 143 for a
stream, the water reservation established under paragraph 141 will
terminate in respect of that stream.



SCHEDULE A — BOUNDARY RESOLUTION


1.
Within a reasonable time after a Party provides the other Parties with a
written proposal to clarify the location of a part of a boundary of
Nisg̱a'a Lands, the Parties will negotiate and attempt to reach agreement
on whether, how, and at whose cost to undertake the proposed
clarification of boundary location.


2.
Unless the Parties otherwise agree, the cost as between the Parties of
any field survey undertaken to clarify the location of a part of a
boundary of Nisg̱a'a Lands will be borne by:


a. the Party authorizing an activity causing the need for clarification
of the boundary location; or


b. the Party proposing clarification of the boundary location, if no
Party has authorized an activity causing the need for clarification of
the boundary location.


3.
If the Parties do not agree on whether, how, or at whose cost to
undertake the proposed boundary clarification, any Party may refer the
matter to be finally determined by arbitration under the Dispute
Resolution Chapter.


4.
If the Parties agree to undertake the field survey of a part of a
boundary of Nisg̱a'a Lands, or if an arbitrator orders the field survey
of a part of a boundary of Nisg̱a'a Lands, the Parties will provide
notice to the Surveyor General of British Columbia of the agreement of
the Parties or the order of the arbitrator.


5.
Upon receiving notice under paragraph 4, the Surveyor General will
prepare and submit to the Parties for approval provisional survey
instructions, based on prevailing provincial survey standards, for the
part of the boundary of Nisg̱a'a Lands.


6.
After the Parties have approved the survey instructions for the part of
the boundary of Nisg̱a'a Lands, the Surveyor General will issue the
approved survey instructions to the British Columbia Land Surveyor
designated by the Party responsible for the costs of the survey or,
where more than one Party is responsible, to the British Columbia Land
Surveyor designated by those Parties. The Party or Parties responsible
for the costs of the survey will be determined in accordance with
paragraphs 2 and 3.


7.
After the designated British Columbia Land Surveyor has, in accordance
with the approved survey instructions, completed the field survey and
submitted the required survey plans to the Surveyor General and the
Parties, Appendix A will be amended to reflect the survey.



SCHEDULE B — LIST OF SITES



Sites On Nisg̱a'a Lands That Are Not On Former Nisg̱a'a Indian Reserves






Site Name and Use


General Location




Forestry Activities




Lavender Logging Camp

Located in general vicinity of Taylor Creek on Nass Kwinatahl

FSR 7876-04

103P.046




Ksedin Logging Camp

SUP 16189


Northern side of Nisg̱a'a Highway at 10km from Ginlulak

103P.013




Ginlulak Log Sort and Dump

SUP 9764


On Ishkheenickh Road at 2.5km from Nisg̱a'a Highway turnoff

103P.003




Kwinatahl Camp Sim Gan Logging Camp and Dryland Sort

SUP 19897 and 22417


Near Kwinatahl River on Ksadin to Alice Arm Road

103P.035



Tower Logging Camp

In vicinity of bridge crossing of Ishkheenickh River

103I.093



Monkley Log Dump

In vicinity of northwestern corner of former IR12, Lacktesk

103I.092




Upper and Lower Clark Log Sort and Dump


In vicinity of eastern boundary of former IR9 and Ishkheenickh
Road

RO7816

103P.003



Kinskuch Log Sort and Dump

In vicinity of former IR53, southern shore of Nass River opposite
mouth of Kinskuch River

103P.056



Log Sort and Dump

On eastern side of Nass River where road comes down to river west
of Cassiar

DL3061

103P.025



Omar Island Log Sort

Nass River in vicinity of former

IR29A

103P.014



River Shack Fuelling Area

In vicinity of southwestern corner of former IR29 Zaulzap, near
Nisg̱a'a Highway

103P.014




Water Gauge and Stoney Point General Work Area


On northern side of Nisg̱a'a Highway at 18km from Ginlulak

103P.014



14k General Work Area

In vicinity of Nisg̱a'a Highway at 14km from Ginlulak

103P.014



Dragon Lake Forestry Camp

In area of campground

103P.036



Sort Yard

On both sides of Nass – Kinskuch FSR near junction with Nass –
Kwinatahl Road

103P.046




Landfills




New Aiyansh Landfill
At end of Dump Road 103P.025


Ksedin Landfill

Southern side of Nisg̱a'a Highway, 12km from Ginlulak

103P.014




Highway Activities




MOTH Gravel Pits

Listed in Schedule A, Roads and Rights of Way Chapter





Sites On Nisg̱a'a Fee Simple Lands That Are Not On Former Nisg̱a'a
Indian Reserves





Site Name and Use


General Location



Echo Cove Logging Camp

Iceberg Bay

103I.091






SCHEDULE C — WATER VOLUMES



Streams Partially Within Nisg̱a'a Lands for Which a Percentage of
Available Water Flow Has Been Specified






Stream Name



Percentage of

Available Flow



B.C.G.S. Map References



Scowban Creek (unofficial name)
50%
103P.001


Ishkheenickh River
26%

103I.062, 103I.063, 103I.072, 103I.073, 103I.074, 103I.082,
103I.083, 103I.084, 103I.092, 103I.093 and 103I.094



Ksemamaith Creek
29%

103P.003, 103P.004, 103P.013 and 103P.014



Kshadin Creek
10%

103P.044, 103P.045, 103P.046, 103P.054 and 103P.055



Tseax River
10%

103I.094, 103I.095, 103I.096, 103P.004, 103P.005, 103P.006,
103P.014, 103P.015, 103P.016, 103P.017, 103P.025 and 103P.026



Kwinatahl River
10%

103P.033, 103P.034, 103P.035, 103P.043, 103P.044 and 103P.045



Tchitin River
10%

103P.044, 103P.045, 103P.046, 103P.054, 103P.055, 103P.056,
103P.064 and 103P.065



Ksedin Creek
12%

103I.084, 103I.085, 103I.093, 103I.094, 103I.095, 103P.003 and
103P.004







CHAPTER 4


LAND TITLE



FEDERAL TITLE LEGISLATION


1.
Federal land title or land registry laws do not apply to any parcel of
Nisg̱a'a Lands, other than laws in respect of the survey and recording of
estates or interests that are owned by Canada and are in Nisg̱a'a Lands.



PROVINCIAL TORRENS SYSTEM


2.
The provincial Torrens system does not apply to a parcel of Nisg̱a'a
Lands for which:


a. no application has been made under the
Land Title Act
in accordance with this Agreement for the registration of an
indefeasible title;


b. an application has been made under the
Land Title Act
in accordance with this Agreement for the registration of an
indefeasible title and, that application has been withdrawn or rejected;
or


c. the indefeasible title under the
Land Title Act
has been cancelled under that Act in accordance with this Agreement.


3.
If the Nisg̱a'a Nation applies under the
Land Title Act
in accordance with this Agreement for the registration of an
indefeasible title to a parcel of Nisg̱a'a Lands, effective from the time
of application and until:


a. the application has been withdrawn or rejected; or


b. the indefeasible title for that parcel is cancelled


the provincial Torrens system, but not any Nisg̱a'a law in respect of
land title or land registration made under paragraph 50 (a) of the
Nisg̱a'a Government Chapter, applies to the parcel, subject to paragraph
4.


4.
Notwithstanding the application of the provincial Torrens system to a
parcel of Nisg̱a'a Lands as set out in paragraph 3, a Nisg̱a'a land title
or land registration law that relates only to
in personam
rights of a person deprived of an estate, interest, condition, proviso,
restriction, exception, reservation, or certificate of possession as a
result of the application of the provincial Torrens system in accordance
with this Agreement applies to the parcel, to the extent that the law
does not conflict with paragraph 11 of this Chapter.



APPLICATION FOR INDEFEASIBLE TITLE


5.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation, and no other person, in its own name or on behalf of
another person may apply under the
Land Title Act
for the registration of an indefeasible title to a parcel of Nisg̱a'a
Lands for which no indefeasible title is registered at the time of
application.



LAND TITLE FEES


6.
If the Nisg̱a'a Nation applies for the registration of an indefeasible
title to a parcel of Nisg̱a'a Lands for which no indefeasible title has
been registered after the effective date, and the proposed registered
owner in fee simple is the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, or a
Nisg̱a'a Corporation, no land title fees are payable in respect of the
application by which the proposed owner becomes the registered owner.



NISG̱A'A  CERTIFICATE


7.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation, when applying for the registration of an
indefeasible title to a parcel of Nisg̱a'a Lands under paragraph 5, will
provide to the Registrar:


a. a description of the boundaries of the parcel;


b. a certificate of Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government certifying that, on the
date of the Nisg̱a'a Certificate, the person named as the owner in fee
simple in the Nisg̱a'a Certificate is the owner of the estate in fee
simple of the parcel, and certifying that the Nisg̱a'a Certificate sets
out the only:


i. subsisting conditions, provisos, restrictions, exceptions, and
reservations contained in the original or any other conveyance or
disposition from the Nisg̱a'a Nation that are in favour of the Nisg̱a'a
Nation, or that are in favour of another person,

ii. estates or interests, and

iii. charges in respect of a debt owed to the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a
Nisg̱a'a Village


to which the estate in fee simple of the parcel is subject; and


c. registrable copies of all charges referred to in subparagraphs (b)
(ii) and (b) (iii).


8.
A Nisg̱a'a Certificate will expire unless:


a. within seven days of the date of the Nisg̱a'a Certificate, the Nisg̱a'a
Nation applies for registration of an indefeasible title to the parcel
referred to in the Nisg̱a'a Certificate; and


b. the Registrar issues an indefeasible title to the parcel.



REGISTRATION OF INDEFEASIBLE TITLE


9.
If the Nisg̱a'a Nation makes an application for the registration of
indefeasible title to a parcel of Nisg̱a'a Lands under paragraph 5, the
Registrar, on being satisfied that:


a. a good safe holding and marketable title in fee simple for the parcel
has been established by the Nisg̱a'a Nation;


b. the boundaries of the parcel are sufficiently defined by the
description provided by the Nisg̱a'a Nation;


c. all of the estates, interests, and other charges set out in the
Nisg̱a'a Certificate are registrable as charges under the
Land Title Act
; and


d. the Nisg̱a'a Certificate is dated not more than seven days before the
date of application for registration of an indefeasible title to the
parcel

will:

e. register the indefeasible title to the parcel;


f. make a note on the indefeasible title that the parcel is Nisg̱a'a
Lands and may be subject to conditions, provisos, restrictions,
exceptions, and reservations in favour of Nisg̱a'a Nation;


g. register as charges the estates and interests set out in subparagraph
7 (b) (ii) and the other charges set out in subparagraph 7 (b) (iii);
and


h. provide a copy of the indefeasible title to Nisg̱a'a Lisims
Government.


10.
The Registrar is entitled to rely on, and is not required to make any
inquiries in respect of, the matters certified in the Nisg̱a'a
Certificate.



DEPRIVATION OF ESTATE


11.
A person deprived of an estate, interest, condition, proviso,
restriction, exception, or reservation, or a certificate of possession
referred to in paragraph 33 or 34 of the Lands Chapter, in or to a
parcel of Nisg̱a'a Lands as a result of the reliance by the Registrar on
a Nisg̱a'a Certificate, and the issuance by the Registrar of an
indefeasible title based on the Nisg̱a'a Certificate, will have no
recourse, at law or in equity, including no action for possession or
recovery of land, against the Registrar, the Assurance Fund, or any
person named in the Nisg̱a'a Certificate, and the indefeasible title
issued by the Registrar in reliance on the Nisg̱a'a Certificate as the
owner of the estate in fee simple or as the owner of an estate,
interest, condition, proviso, restriction, exception, or reservation,
subject to the right of a person to show:


a. fraud, including forgery, in which the owner of the estate in fee
simple or the owner of the estate, interest, condition, proviso,
restriction, exception, or reservation as set out in the Nisg̱a'a
Certificate and the indefeasible title issued by the Registrar in
reliance on the Nisg̱a'a Certificate has participated in any degree; or


b. that the owner of the estate in fee simple or the owner of the
estate, interest, condition, proviso, restriction, exception, or
reservation as set out in the Nisg̱a'a Certificate and the indefeasible
title issued by the Registrar in reliance on the Nisg̱a'a Certificate has
derived their right or title otherwise than in good faith and for value.


12.
No title adverse to, or in derogation of, the title of the registered
owner of a parcel of Nisg̱a'a Lands under the
Land Title Act
will be acquired by length of possession and, for greater certainty,
subsection 23 (4) of the
Land Title Act
does not apply in respect of Nisg̱a'a Lands.



CANCELLATION OF INDEFEASIBLE TITLE


13.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation, and no other person, may apply under the
Land Title Act
in accordance with this Chapter for cancellation of the registration of
an indefeasible title to a parcel of Nisg̱a'a Lands.


14.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation, when applying under the
Land Title Act
in accordance with this Chapter for the cancellation of the registration
of an indefeasible title to a parcel of Nisg̱a'a Lands, will provide to
the Registrar an application for cancellation of registration and will
deliver to the Registrar any duplicate indefeasible title that may have
been issued in respect of that parcel.


15.
Upon receiving an application from the Nisg̱a'a Nation for cancellation
of the registration of an indefeasible title to a parcel of Nisg̱a'a
Lands in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 13 and 14, and if:


a. the registered owner of the estate in fee simple to the parcel is the
Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, or a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, and
consents; and


b. the indefeasible title to the parcel is free and clear of all
charges, except those in favour of the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a
Village


the Registrar will cancel the registration of the indefeasible title.



APPLICATION OF PROVINCIAL TORRENS SYSTEM


16.
When the provincial Torrens system applies to a parcel of Nisg̱a'a Lands:


a. the jurisdiction of Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government or a Nisg̱a'a Village
Government is not diminished, except to the extent set out in this
Agreement;


b. with respect to the
Land Title Act
, the powers, rights, privileges, capacities, duties, and obligations,
set out in or pursuant to this Agreement, of:


i. the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village under the
Land Title Act
will be analogous to those of the Crown, a municipality, or regional
district, as the case may be, under that Act, and


ii. Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government or a Nisg̱a'a Village Government under the
Land Title Act
will be analogous to those of the provincial government or a municipal
council, regional district board, or improvement district trustee, as
the case may be, under that Act, and


c. the status and treatment of Nisg̱a'a Village Lands, or Nisg̱a'a Lands
other than Nisg̱a'a Village Lands, under the
Land Title Act
will be analogous to that of municipal lands or rural areas, as the case
may be, under that Act.


17.
The following are a limited number of examples of proposed amendments to
the
Land Title Act
, as that Act was on August 1, 1998, required to give effect to
paragraph 16:


a. the following paragraphs will be added to subsection 23 (2):


"(k) the subsisting conditions, provisos, restrictions, exceptions, and
reservations, including royalties, contained in the original disposition
or any other disposition from the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village;"


"(l) a Nisg̱a'a Nation tax, rate, or assessment at the date of the
application for registration imposed or made a lien or that may after
that date be imposed or made a lien on the land;"


b. in paragraph 23 (2) (f) the word "Act" will, with reference to a
right of expropriation but not with reference to an escheat, include any
Nisg̱a'a law;


c. Division 3 of Part 7 will be modified to provide for the appointment
of an approving officer by Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government for Nisg̱a'a Lands;


d. in paragraph 83 (1) (a) the word "municipality" will include a
Nisg̱a'a Village, and in paragraph 83 (1) (b) the words "rural area" will
include Nisg̱a'a Lands other than Nisg̱a'a Village Lands;


e. in paragraphs 99 (1) (f) and 218 (1) (a) the word "Crown" will
include Nisg̱a'a Nation or Nisg̱a'a Village;


f. in paragraphs 99 (1) (h) and 218 (1) (b) the word "municipality" will
include Nisg̱a'a Village;


g. in paragraph 107 (1) (d) the word "enactment" will include any
Nisg̱a'a law, and the words "Crown in right of the Province" in respect
of a highway, park or public square within Nisg̱a'a Lands will include
Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village but in respect of land covered by
water will not include Nisg̱a'a Nation or Nisg̱a'a Village; and


h. in subsection 262 (1) the word "Act" will include Nisg̱a'a laws, and
the word "Crown" will include Nisg̱a'a Nation, and the words "Crown in
right of the Province" will include Nisg̱a'a Nation.




CHAPTER 5


FOREST RESOURCES



DEFINITIONS


1.
In this Chapter and in Appendix H:



"agreement under the
Forest Act
"

means a major licence or timber sale licence that, before the effective
date, provided for the harvesting of timber on Nisg̱a'a Lands;



"former Nisg̱a'a Indian reserves"

means those lands within Nisg̱a'a Lands that were Nisg̱a'a Indian reserves
on the day before the effective date as identified in Appendix A-4, and
all Category A lands;


"forest practices legislation"
means the
Forest Practices Code of British Columbia Act
, the
Forest Act
, or any regulation under those Acts;


"forest practices"
means timber harvesting and related activities, including silviculture,
and road construction, modification, maintenance, and deactivation;


"forest standards"
means the performance requirements or constraints associated with a
forest practice;


"Forestry Transition Committee"
means the committee established under paragraph 32 of this Chapter;


"licence"
means an agreement issued by British Columbia, in the nature of a forest
licence or a timber sale licence, that provides for the harvesting of
timber on Nisg̱a'a Lands during the transition period;


"Nisg̱a'a Contractor"
means a full phase logging contractor whose operations and direction are
effectively controlled by the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, a
Nisg̱a'a Corporation, or a Nisg̱a'a citizen;


"non-timber forest resources"
means all forest resources other than timber or timber resources;


"timber"
or
"timber resources"
means trees, whether living, standing, dead, fallen, limbed, bucked, or
peeled;


"transition period"
means the five year period commencing on the effective date; and


"transition year"
means a one year period commencing on the effective date, or any
anniversary of the effective date, within the transition period.


Interpretation


2.
Unless the context indicates otherwise, words and expressions used in
this Chapter and in Appendix H that are not defined in this Agreement
have the meaning given to them in forest practices legislation.



OWNERSHIP OF RESOURCES


3.
On the effective date, the Nisg̱a'a Nation owns all forest resources on
Nisg̱a'a Lands.


4.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government has the exclusive authority to determine,
collect, and administer any fees, rents, royalties, or other charges in
respect of:

a. non-timber forest resources on Nisg̱a'a Lands;

b. timber resources referred to in paragraphs 20 and 21; and


c. after the transition period, all timber resources on Nisg̱a'a Lands.



APPLICABLE LAWS AND STANDARDS


Forest Practices and Standards


5.
During the transition period, forest practices legislation applies to
activities and obligations of:


a. the holder of an agreement under the
Forest Act
on Nisg̱a'a Lands as if Nisg̱a'a Lands were Crown land; and


b. the holder of a licence within the area covered by its forest
development plan on Nisg̱a'a Lands as if Nisg̱a'a Lands were Crown land.


6.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government will make laws in respect of the management of
timber resources on Nisg̱a'a Lands, that will take effect on the
effective date.


7.
Laws made under paragraph 6 do not apply to:


a. activities and obligations referred to in paragraph 5; and


b. fire control and suppression activities for which British Columbia is
responsible under paragraphs 57 and 59.


8.
Laws made under paragraph 6 will include forest standards that meet or
exceed forest standards established under forest practices legislation
applicable to Crown land, and will include forest standards in respect
of the following subject areas if these subject areas are addressed in
forest practices legislation:

a. riparian management;
b. cut block design and distribution;

c. road construction, maintenance and deactivation;

d. reforestation;
e. soil conservation;
f. biodiversity;

g. hazard abatement, fire preparedness and initial fire suppression;


h. silvicultural systems and logging methods; and

i. forest health.

9.
In a determination of whether forest standards established under
paragraph 6 meet or exceed forest standards established under forest
practices legislation applicable to Crown land, the subject areas
referred to in paragraph 8 will be compared collectively.


10.
Forest standards established under paragraph 6 will be deemed to meet or
exceed forest standards established under forest practices legislation
applicable to Crown land, if they are no more intrusive to the
environment than the forest standards applicable to Crown land
established under forest practices legislation.


11.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws in respect of non-timber forest
resources on Nisg̱a'a Lands, including establishing standards to regulate
harvesting and conservation of non-timber forest resources, provided
that the standards meet or exceed any federal or provincial standards
established under legislation to regulate, on private land, the
harvesting and conservation of non-timber forest resources.


12.
The Parties may negotiate arrangements to achieve coordination and
administrative efficiencies in respect of matters such as timber
harvesting plans, road building, forest health concerns, forest fire
detection and suppression, non-timber forest resources, and the
protection of fisheries habitat.


Timber Marking and Timber Scaling


13.
Subject to paragraph 14, provincial laws in respect of timber scaling
apply to timber harvested on Nisg̱a'a Lands.


14.
After the transition period, Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws
compatible with provincial laws in respect of timber scaling.


15.
If Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government makes laws under paragraph 14, Nisg̱a'a
Lisims Government will, on or before March 31 of each year, provide to
British Columbia a report on the volume of timber harvested during the
preceding year from Nisg̱a'a Lands, by species, grade, and timber mark.


16.
Provincial laws in respect of timber marks apply to timber harvested on
Nisg̱a'a Lands.



TIMBER HARVESTING


Timber Harvesting Rates


17.
Subject to the cut control provisions in Appendix H, the volume of
timber that may be harvested on Nisg̱a'a Lands, other than former Nisg̱a'a
Indian reserves, during the nine year period commencing on the effective
date, is:


a. year 1   165,000 m
3
;


b. year 2   165,000 m
3
;


c. year 3   165,000 m
3
;


d. year 4   165,000 m
3
;


e. year 5   165,000 m
3
;


f. year 6   135,000 m
3
;


g. year 7   135,000 m
3
;


h. year 8   135,000 m
3
; and


i. year 9   130,000 m
3
.


18.
On the effective date, or as soon as is practicable, British Columbia
will apportion among the holders of licences the volume of timber to be
harvested on Nisg̱a'a Lands, other than former Nisg̱a'a Indian reserves,
by the holders of licences during the transition period as follows:


a. year 1   155,000 m
3
;


b. year 2   155,000 m
3
;


c. year 3   155,000 m
3
;


d. year 4   135,000 m
3
; and


e. year 5   125,000 m
3
.


19.
During the transition period, the aggregate volume of timber to be
harvested by holders of licences from that portion of the
Ksi Hlginx (Ishkheenickh)
watershed that is within Nisg̱a'a Lands will not exceed 210,000 m
3
.


20.
During the transition period, the Nisg̱a'a Nation, subject to this
Agreement, may authorize the harvest of the volumes of timber from
Nisg̱a'a Lands, other than former Nisg̱a'a Indian reserves as follows:


a. year 1   10,000 m
3
;


b. year 2   10,000 m
3
;


c. year 3   10,000 m
3
;


d. year 4   30,000 m
3
; and


e. year 5   40,000 m
3
.


21.
In addition to the volumes specified in paragraph 20, the Nisg̱a'a Nation
may authorize the harvest of:


a. any overcut or accumulated undercut volumes of timber determined
under and in accordance with Appendix H; and

b. timber from former Nisg̱a'a Indian reserves.

22.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government, in accordance with Nisg̱a'a laws, including
any cut control provisions, will authorize the harvest of volumes of
timber from Nisg̱a'a Lands for years six through nine after the effective
date as follows:


a. year 6   135,000 m
3
;


b. year 7   135,000 m
3
;


c. year 8   135,000 m
3
; and


d. year 9   130,000 m
3
.


23.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation and British Columbia may negotiate agreements in
respect of matters such as the rate of harvest of timber resources on
Nisg̱a'a Lands.


24.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation will make timber harvested under paragraph 20 and
subparagraph 21 (a) reasonably available to local mills.



Timber Harvesting Rights Existing Before the Effective Date



25.
Except as provided in Appendix H, British Columbia will ensure that on
the effective date any portion of:


a. any agreement under the
Forest Act
; and


b. any plan, permit or authorization associated with any agreement under
the
Forest Act


that applies to Nisg̱a'a Lands, ceases to be valid.


26.
Timber harvesting rights under a licence or permit granted under the
Indian Timber Regulations in respect of former Nisg̱a'a Indian reserves
expire on the effective date.


Timber Harvesting Rights During the Transition Period


27.
British Columbia may enter into a licence with a person who was the
holder of an agreement under the
Forest Act
to allow for the harvesting of some or all of that volume of timber on
Nisg̱a'a Lands referred to in paragraph 18.


28.
A licence referred to in paragraph 27 that replaces a major licence
will:


a. have similar terms and conditions as a non-replaceable forest
licence, except that the new licence will expire on the earliest of:


i. the date that was specified in the agreement under the
Forest Act
,

ii. the end of the transition period, or
iii. the cancellation of the licence;

b. if the licence replaces a portion of a tree farm licence, provide
that the holder of the licence may not harvest timber outside of that
portion of Nisg̱a'a Lands that was included in the area of the tree farm
licence unless requested to do so by the Forestry Transition Committee;
and


c. require the holder of the licence to use Nisg̱a'a Contractors under
full phase logging contracts in accordance with Appendix H.


29.
A licence referred to in paragraph 27 that replaces a timber sale
licence will have similar terms and conditions as the licence it
replaces, except that the new licence will expire on the earliest of:


a. the date that was specified in the agreement under the
Forest Act
;

b. the end of the transition period; or
c. the cancellation of the licence.


Operational Plans and Permits During the Transition Period



30.
During the transition period, the operational planning and performance
requirements contained in Appendix H apply to timber harvesting and
related activities on Nisg̱a'a Lands.


31.
Except as set out in this Agreement, British Columbia will not:


a. approve plans or issue permits under forest practices legislation in
respect of Nisg̱a'a Lands; or


b. allow the holders of licences to carry out timber harvesting or
related activities on Nisg̱a'a Lands.


32.
On the effective date, the Nisg̱a'a Nation and British Columbia will
establish the Forestry Transition Committee and will each appoint one
member to that committee.


33.
The Forestry Transition Committee has, in respect of Nisg̱a'a Lands, sole
authority to approve, extend or issue, or to exempt the requirement for:


a. forest development plans and amendments in respect of timber
harvesting and related activities to be carried out during the
transition period;


b. silviculture prescriptions and amendments submitted by the holder of
a licence for harvesting proposed for the fourth and fifth years of the
transition period;


c. all cutting permits and road permits required by the holder of a
licence to carry out timber harvesting and related activities during the
fifth year of the transition period; and


d. all road use permits required during the transition period.


34.
The Forestry Transition Committee may exempt a person from any
requirement to comply with operational planning constraints specified in
Appendix H.


35.
The Forestry Transition Committee may impose conditions on any exemption
referred to in paragraph 33 or 34.


36.
British Columbia has the authority to approve, extend or issue, or to
exempt the requirement for, prescriptions and permits referred to in
this Agreement that are:

a. required by the holder of a licence; and
b. not referred to in paragraph 33.

37.
British Columbia may impose conditions on any exemption referred to in
paragraph 36.


38.
The Forestry Transition Committee will make its decisions by consensus,
and any dispute between the members of the Forestry Transition Committee
arising out of the performance of its duties will be finally determined
by arbitration in accordance with Appendix H.


39.
The member of the Forestry Transition Committee who acts on behalf of
the Nisg̱a'a Nation, or an arbitrator in an arbitration referred to in
paragraph 38, will have the same immunities from liability as a district
manager under forest practices legislation.


Performance Obligations


40.
Notwithstanding paragraph 25, British Columbia will ensure that all
obligations in respect of harvested areas and roads constructed on
Nisg̱a'a Lands imposed under agreements under the
Forest Act
or the forest practices legislation are fulfilled.


41.
Notwithstanding the expiry, surrender, suspension, or cancellation of a
licence, British Columbia will ensure that all obligations imposed under
the licence and the forest practices legislation are fulfilled.


42.
British Columbia will fulfill on Nisg̱a'a Lands all obligations imposed
under forest practices legislation for the small business forest
enterprise program.


43.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation will:


a. determine which roads that require deactivation under forest
practices legislation will not require deactivation; and


b. notify in writing the person responsible for the road that
deactivation of the road is not required.


44.
Notice under paragraph 43 will be given as soon as practicable after the
person responsible for the road advises the Nisg̱a'a Nation that they
intend to deactivate the road.


45.
All roads that are required to be deactivated will be deactivated:


a. as soon as practicable after the end of the transition period; or


b. if they are required for carrying out silviculture obligations, as
soon as practicable after the completion of those obligations.


46.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation will provide access to Nisg̱a'a Lands to holders of
agreements under the
Forest Act
, to holders of licences and to British Columbia so that they may
fulfill the obligations referred to in paragraphs 40 to 42 and 45.


Compliance and Enforcement


47.
During the transition period, British Columbia is responsible for
enforcing compliance with forest practices legislation on Nisg̱a'a Lands
by holders of agreements under the
Forest Act
and by holders of licences.


48.
British Columbia will ensure that the holders of agreements under the
Forest Act
and the holders of licences comply with the requirements of their
agreements and licences.


49.
After the transition period, British Columbia is responsible for
enforcing compliance with forest practices legislation on Nisg̱a'a Lands
by holders of agreements under the
Forest Act
and by holders of licences for obligations referred to in paragraphs 40
to 42 and 45.


50.
If British Columbia determines that a holder of an agreement or a holder
of a licence has contravened forest practices legislation by harvesting
timber without proper authority, British Columbia will levy a penalty
against the holder equal to:


a. British Columbia's determination of the stumpage and bonus bid that
would have been payable had the volume of timber been sold under section
20 of the
Forest Act
; and


b. twice British Columbia's determination of the market value of logs
and special forest products that were, or could have been, produced from
the timber.


51.
During the transition period, if a penalty other than a performance
penalty is imposed on a person for a contravention of forest practices
legislation on or affecting Nisg̱a'a Lands, British Columbia will pay to
the Nisg̱a'a Nation an amount equivalent to the portion of that penalty
that is imposed in respect of the contravention on or affecting Nisg̱a'a
Lands.


52.
During the transition period, if a performance penalty is imposed on a
person for a contravention of forest practices legislation on Nisg̱a'a
Lands, British Columbia will pay to the Nisg̱a'a Nation an amount
equivalent to the portion of that penalty that is imposed and collected
in respect of the contravention on Nisg̱a'a Lands, less the reasonable
costs associated with imposing that penalty.


53.
During the transition period, the Nisg̱a'a Nation may commence, or
intervene in, an appeal to the Forest Appeals Commission in respect of:


a. a determination of whether a person has contravened forest practices
legislation on or affecting Nisg̱a'a Lands; or


b. the determination of whether to impose a penalty referred to in
paragraphs 51 and 52 and the amount of that penalty.


54.
During the transition period, the powers of the Forest Practices Board
set out in forest practices legislation in respect of complaints, audits
and special reports apply on Nisg̱a'a Lands to holders of agreements
under the
Forest Act
and to holders of licences.


55.
During the transition period, the Forest Practices Board will perform an
annual audit of compliance with and enforcement of forest practices
legislation on Nisg̱a'a Lands.


56.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation is responsible for enforcing compliance with laws
made under paragraphs 6 and 11.



FOREST FIRES AND FOREST HEALTH


Forest Fire Control and Suppression on Nisg̱a'a Lands


57.
During the transition period, British Columbia is responsible for the
control and suppression of forest fires on Nisg̱a'a Lands:


a. to the same extent and in the same manner as it is responsible for
the control and suppression of forest fires on Crown land elsewhere in
British Columbia; and


b. by using the same priority assessment that it uses to assign priority
to the control and suppression of forest fires on Crown land elsewhere
in British Columbia.


58.
During the transition period, Canada will pay the costs incurred by
British Columbia in controlling and suppressing forest fires that
originate on former Nisg̱a'a Indian reserves on the same basis as would
have applied if the former Nisg̱a'a Indian reserves had remained Indian
reserves under the
Indian Act
.


59.
After the transition period, British Columbia is responsible for control
and suppression of forest fires on Nisg̱a'a Public Lands:


a. to the same extent and in the same manner as it is responsible for
the control and suppression of forest fires on Crown land elsewhere in
British Columbia; and


b. by using the same priority assessment that it uses to assign priority
to the control and suppression of forest fires on Crown land elsewhere
in British Columbia.


60.
After the transition period, the Nisg̱a'a Nation will be responsible for
the control and suppression of forest fires on Nisg̱a'a Village Lands and
on Nisg̱a'a Private Lands.


61.
After the transition period, the Nisg̱a'a Nation will pay the costs
incurred by British Columbia in controlling and suppressing forest fires
on Nisg̱a'a Public Lands if the forest fire:


a. originates on Nisg̱a'a Public Lands and is caused by an act of God or
an industrial user authorized by the Nisg̱a'a Nation;


b. originates on Crown land and is caused by an act of God;


c. originates on private land and is caused by an act of God; or


d. originates on Nisg̱a'a Village Lands or on Nisg̱a'a Private Lands.


Forest Health


62.
Except for the responsibilities of the holders of licences set out in
Appendix H, the Nisg̱a'a Nation is responsible for forest health on
Nisg̱a'a Lands.


63.
If a forest health problem on Nisg̱a'a Lands threatens forest resources
on adjacent Crown land:


a. British Columbia may notify the Nisg̱a'a Nation of the nature, extent
and location of the forest health problem;


b. if the Nisg̱a'a Nation receives notice under subparagraph (a), it
will, within a reasonable time, take all reasonable measures to mitigate
the forest health problem;


c. if the Nisg̱a'a Nation does not meet its obligation under subparagraph
(b), British Columbia, after providing reasonable notice to the Nisg̱a'a
Nation, may enter onto Nisg̱a'a Lands and carry out reasonable measures,
consistent with Nisg̱a'a laws made under paragraphs 6 and 11, to mitigate
the forest health problem;


d. British Columbia will use, to the extent that they are available and
qualified, Nisg̱a'a citizens to carry out measures under subparagraph
(c); and


e. the Nisg̱a'a Nation will reimburse British Columbia for all reasonable
costs incurred by British Columbia in carrying out measures under
subparagraph (c).


64.
If British Columbia becomes aware of forest health problems on Crown
land that threaten forest resources on Nisg̱a'a Lands, British Columbia
will:


a. within a reasonable time, take all reasonable measures to mitigate
the identified forest health problem; and


b. compensate the Nisg̱a'a Nation for any damage to forest resources on
Nisg̱a'a Lands that result from its failure to meet its obligation under
subparagraph (a).



TIMBER PROCESSING


65.
Provincial laws in respect of manufacture in British Columbia of timber
harvested from Crown land apply to timber harvested from Nisg̱a'a Lands.


66.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation may apply to British Columbia to export timber
harvested from Nisg̱a'a Lands.


67.
During the transition period, British Columbia will approve an
application referred to in paragraph 66 if the application is in
accordance with provincial laws and policies.


68.
Paragraph 65 does not apply in respect of timber harvested from former
Nisg̱a'a Indian reserves during the transition period.


69.
Timber harvested from former Nisg̱a'a Indian reserves during the
transition period may be exported in accordance with federal laws as if
the timber had been harvested from a "reserve" as defined in the
Indian Act
.


70.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, or a Nisg̱a'a Corporation will not
establish a primary timber processing facility for 10 years after the
effective date.


71.
Paragraph 70 does not preclude the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, or
a Nisg̱a'a Corporation from:


a. establishing a timber processing facility to provide lumber for use
by the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, Nisg̱a'a Institutions, a
Nisg̱a'a Corporation, or Nisg̱a'a citizens for residential or public
purposes;

b. conducting value-added timber processing; or

c. entering into any partnership or joint venture with the owner of an
existing timber processing facility.



ECONOMIC CONSIDERATIONS


Same Economic Position


72.
British Columbia, in accordance with Appendix H, will make payments to
the Nisg̱a'a Nation in respect of timber harvested by holders of licences
during the transition period.


Restoration


73.
British Columbia and Canada recognize that the present and anticipated
efforts of the Nisg̱a'a Nation to restore watersheds within the Nass Area
are consistent with the objectives of Forest Renewal British Columbia.


74.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, or a
Nisg̱a'a citizen may apply for funding for restoration of Nisg̱a'a Lands
under federal, provincial, or Crown corporation programs, in accordance
with requirements and guidelines of those programs.



FOREST RESOURCES OUTSIDE NISG̱A'A LANDS


Forest Management


75.
Canada or British Columbia will provide the Nisg̱a'a Nation, through the
Joint Fisheries Management Committee and the Wildlife Committee, the
information concerning forest development plans applicable to all or
part of the Nass Area that is provided to the ministries or departments
of Canada and British Columbia participating on those committees.


Forest Tenures


76.
British Columbia agrees in principle to an acquisition by the Nisg̱a'a
Nation of a forest tenure or tenures having an aggregate allowable
annual cut of up to 150,000 m
3
.


77.
An acquisition referred to in paragraph 76 will require approval by the
Minister of Forests in accordance with the
Forest Act
.


78.
The Minister of Forests supports, and will approve, an acquisition
referred to in paragraph 76 if the Minister is satisfied that:


a. there has been a public process, in accordance with Ministry policy
on tenure transfers and corporate concentration, that identifies public
interests in relation to those matters; and


b. the tenure or tenures contain terms and conditions that address local
employment and economic opportunities, including those in the Nass Area,
and regional fibre supply needs.


79.
In addition to the requirements set out in paragraphs 77 and 78, if the
tenure to be acquired by the Nisg̱a'a Nation is a Tree Farm Licence, the
approval of the Minister of Forests will be conditional upon the
agreement by the Nisg̱a'a Nation to the inclusion of a portion of Nisg̱a'a
Lands as Schedule A Lands within the Tree Farm Licence.


80.
The portion of Nisg̱a'a Lands to be included as Schedule A Lands within a
Tree Farm Licence will be:


a. negotiated at the time of the Tree Farm Licence acquisition; and


b. based on appropriate management considerations.


81.
Nothing in this Agreement limits the ability of the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a
Nisg̱a'a Village, a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, or a Nisg̱a'a citizen to acquire
a forest tenure under the
Forest Act
.


82.
A forest tenure referred to in paragraph 76 or 81 that is acquired by
the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, or a
Nisg̱a'a citizen, is subject to federal and provincial laws of general
application.




CHAPTER 6


ACCESS



NISG̱A'A PUBLIC LANDS


Nisg̱a'a Rights and Obligations


1.
Except as modified by this Agreement, the Nisg̱a'a Nation, as owner of
Nisg̱a'a Lands, has the same rights and obligations in respect of public
access to Nisg̱a'a Lands as other owners of estates in fee simple have in
respect of public access to their land, and in respect of Nisg̱a'a Public
Lands, the Nisg̱a'a Nation has liabilities similar to those of the Crown
in respect of unoccupied Crown land.


Reasonable Public Access


2.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government will allow reasonable public access to and
onto Nisg̱a'a Public Lands for temporary non-commercial and recreational
uses, but public access does not include:


a. harvesting or extracting resources unless authorized by Nisg̱a'a
Lisims Government or as set out in this Chapter;

b. causing damage to Nisg̱a'a Lands or resources;
c. causing mischief or nuisance; or

d. interfering with other uses authorized by Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government,
or interfering with the ability of Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government to
authorize uses of or dispose of Nisg̱a'a Public Lands, or to designate
Nisg̱a'a Public Lands as Nisg̱a'a Private Lands or Nisg̱a'a Village Lands.


3.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws in accordance with the Nisg̱a'a
Government Chapter regulating public access to and onto Nisg̱a'a Public
Lands, for purposes such as:

a. public safety;

b. the prevention of nuisance or damage, including fires;


c. the protection of sensitive habitat areas or heritage sites; and


d. the prevention of harvesting or extracting of resources.



Public Access for Hunting and Fishing on Nisg̱a'a Public Lands



4.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government will provide reasonable opportunities for the
public to hunt and fish on Nisg̱a'a Public Lands but, as the Nisg̱a'a
Nation is the owner of the land on the effective date, only Nisg̱a'a
citizens have the right to hunt and fish on Nisg̱a'a Lands.


5.
Hunting and fishing by the public under paragraph 4 will be in
accordance with paragraphs 6 and 7, federal and provincial laws of
general application, annual management plans, and any laws enacted by
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government regulating public access.


6.
An annual management plan will specify the level of harvest of each
designated species, and any other species that the Minister and Nisg̱a'a
Lisims Government agree should be included in the annual management
plan, that may be harvested on Nisg̱a'a Public Lands by persons other
than Nisg̱a'a citizens, having regard to Nisg̱a'a preferences for
harvesting wildlife under Nisg̱a'a wildlife entitlements on Nisg̱a'a
Lands, and the availability of that species in the rest of the Nass
Wildlife Area.


7.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may, for the purpose of monitoring and
regulating public access for hunting and fishing under paragraph 4,
require persons other than Nisg̱a'a citizens to obtain a permit or
licence. Those permits or licences will be reasonably available at a
reasonable fee taking into account the administrative and other costs of
the monitoring and regulating.



Notice of Terms and Conditions in Respect of Public Access



8.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government and British Columbia will take reasonable
measures to notify the public of terms and conditions in respect of
public access to and onto Nisg̱a'a Public Lands.


9.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government will consult with Canada and British Columbia
in respect of any proposed Nisg̱a'a laws that would significantly affect
the regulation of public access to and onto Nisg̱a'a Public Lands.


10.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government will notify Canada and British Columbia of the
location and boundaries of Nisg̱a'a Village Lands and Nisg̱a'a Private
Lands.


11.
If Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government intends to change the locations or
boundaries of Nisg̱a'a Village Lands or Nisg̱a'a Private Lands, it will
provide reasonable notice to British Columbia and Canada of the proposed
changes.


12.
If Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government intends to change the locations or
boundaries of Nisg̱a'a Village Lands or Nisg̱a'a Private Lands, it will
take reasonable steps to notify the public, and it will consider any
views advanced in respect of the proposed changes by any individual who
would be adversely affected, but the changes may not be set aside on the
ground of insufficient notice.


Alternative Access


13.
If the designation of Nisg̱a'a Public Lands as Nisg̱a'a Village Lands or
Nisg̱a'a Private Lands has the effect of preventing public access to an
area or location to which there is a public right of access under
federal or provincial laws of general application such as navigable
waters or Crown roads, Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government will provide reasonable
alternative means of public access to that area or location.



NAVIGABLE WATERS


14.
This Agreement does not affect public rights of access on navigable
waters within Nisg̱a'a Lands.



CROWN ACCESS TO NISG̱A'A LANDS


15.
Agents, employees, and contractors of Canada or British Columbia, police
officers appointed under federal or provincial legislation, and members
of the Canadian Armed Forces, in accordance with federal and provincial
laws of general application, may enter, cross, and stay temporarily on
Nisg̱a'a Lands to deliver and manage programs and services, to carry out
inspections under law, to enforce laws, to carry out the terms of this
Agreement, and to respond to emergencies.


16.
Canada or British Columbia will give reasonable notice of entry onto
Nisg̱a'a Lands under paragraphs 15 or 17 to the Nisg̱a'a Nation:


a. before the entry if it is practicable to do so; or


b. in any event, as soon as practicable after the entry.


17.
This Agreement does not limit the authority of Canada or the Minister of
National Defence to carry out activities related to national defence and
security, in accordance with federal laws of general application.


18.
Canada will give reasonable notice of entry onto the Nass Area under
paragraph 17 to the Nisg̱a'a Nation:


a. before the entry if it is practicable to do so; or


b. in any event, as soon as practicable after the entry.


19.
Persons who enter, cross, and stay temporarily on Nisg̱a'a Lands under
paragraphs 15 or 17 are subject to Nisg̱a'a laws except to the extent
that those laws unduly interfere with the carrying out of their duties,
and they are not subject to payment of fees or compensation except as
required by federal or provincial law in respect of the payment of fees
or compensation for access on land owned in fee simple.



NISG̱A'A ACCESS TO OTHER LANDS


20.
Agents, employees, and contractors of the Nisg̱a'a Nation, Nisg̱a'a
Villages, and Nisg̱a'a Corporations, and members of the Nisg̱a'a Police
Service, in accordance with laws of general application, may enter,
cross, and stay temporarily on lands off of Nisg̱a'a Lands to deliver and
manage government programs and services, to carry out inspections under
law, to enforce laws, to carry out the terms of this Agreement, and to
respond to emergencies.


21.
Persons who enter, cross, and stay temporarily on lands under paragraph
20 are not subject to payment of fees or compensation except to the
extent that federal or provincial law requires the payment of fees or
compensation by or on behalf of agents, employees, or contractors of
federal or provincial governments.


22.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation, Nisg̱a'a Villages, or Nisg̱a'a Corporations will give
reasonable notice of entry onto lands under paragraph 20 to Canada or
British Columbia as the case may be:


a. before the entry if it is practicable to do so; or


b. in any event, as soon as practicable after the entry.


23.
Nisg̱a'a citizens will have reasonable access to and onto Crown lands
that are outside of Nisg̱a'a Lands, including streams and highways, to
allow for the exercise of Nisg̱a'a rights set out in this Agreement and
for the normal use and enjoyment of Nisg̱a'a interests set out in this
Agreement, including the use of resources for purposes incidental to the
normal use and enjoyment of those rights or interests, provided that
this access does not interfere with other authorized uses or the ability
of the Crown to authorize uses or dispose of Crown land.


24.
If an authorized use or disposition of Crown land would deny Nisg̱a'a
citizens reasonable access or use of resources, as contemplated by
paragraph 23, the Crown will ensure that alternative reasonable access
is provided.



ACCESS TO FEE SIMPLE PROPERTIES


25.
If the owner of a parcel of land identified in Schedule 1 of Appendix
B-2 reasonably requires a right of access to that parcel, Nisg̱a'a
Government may not unreasonably withhold consent to that right of access
if:


a. the owner of the parcel offers fair compensation; and


b. the owner of the parcel and Nisg̱a'a Government agree on the terms of
access.


26.
If the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, or a
Nisg̱a'a citizen reasonably requires a right of access to a parcel of
Nisg̱a'a Fee Simple Lands, British Columbia may not unreasonably withhold
consent to that access if:


a. the Nisg̱a'a Nation, Nisg̱a'a Village, Nisg̱a'a Corporation or Nisg̱a'a
citizen offers fair compensation; and


b. the Nisg̱a'a Nation, Nisg̱a'a Village, Nisg̱a'a Corporation or Nisg̱a'a
citizen and British Columbia agree on the terms of access.


27.
British Columbia or Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may refer a dispute
respecting consent to a right of access, terms of access, or fairness of
compensation under paragraph 25 or 26 to be finally determined by
binding arbitration under the Dispute Resolution Chapter.




CHAPTER 7


ROADS AND RIGHTS OF WAY



RIGHTS OF WAY GENERAL


British Columbia Rights of Way Area on Effective Date


1.
On the effective date, the total rights of way area of the British
Columbia rights of way is deemed to equal 800 hectares, and this total
is the basis of calculations under paragraph 2.


Additional Public Rights of Way


2.
After the effective date, the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village, on
request by British Columbia, will grant to British Columbia, or to a
public utility, rights of way on Nisg̱a'a Lands for public purposes,
including provincial secondary roads or public utilities, in order to
provide access or service to Nisg̱a'a Lands or other lands, subject to
the following:


a. any grant must be on reasonable terms including the location of the
requested right of way, its width considering the intended use, its
effect on neighbouring lands, and payment of fair compensation;


b. British Columbia is not entitled to a grant under this paragraph if,
on the date of the request, the total of the rights of way areas of all
British Columbia rights of way plus the area of the requested grant
would exceed the aggregate right of way maximum;


c. if any British Columbia right of way, or a portion of a British
Columbia right of way, terminates, the right of way area of the
terminated right of way will be excluded from the calculation of the
total of the rights of way areas of all the British Columbia rights of
way for the purposes of calculating British Columbia's entitlement in
respect of the aggregate right of way maximum; and


d. if any dispute arises between British Columbia and the Nisg̱a'a Nation
or a Nisg̱a'a Village in respect of the rights or obligations of either
British Columbia, the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village under this
paragraph, including a dispute in respect of British Columbia's
entitlement to the grant of a right of way for itself or for a public
utility, or a dispute in respect of the terms of the grant, then any
party to that dispute may refer the dispute to be finally determined by
arbitration under Stage Three of the Dispute Resolution Chapter without
having to proceed through Stage Two. The arbitrator's decision will be
final on all matters in dispute, but the arbitrator will not have the
authority to require British Columbia or a public utility to accept a
grant of a right of way.



Preservation of Right to Grant Rights of Way and Approve Survey Plans



3.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation, and each Nisg̱a'a Village, will preserve their
respective rights to grant rights of way to British Columbia or a public
utility on all Nisg̱a'a Lands, and to approve all survey plans as set out
in paragraph 5.


Ownership of Works and Plant


4.
Subject to any express provision, in respect of ownership, in a grant of
a right of way, all works, including road surfacing, bridges, drainage
works, public utility poles, wiring and related plant, underground
piping, conduits and related plant, that are located on that right of
way area:


a. are the property of the grantee of that grant from the Nisg̱a'a Nation
or a Nisg̱a'a Village, for the duration of the grant; and


b. become the property of the Nisg̱a'a Nation or Nisg̱a'a Village upon the
termination of the grant.


Approval of Survey Plans


5.
For each grant of a right of way given on the effective date, the
detailed location and dimensions of the right of way area will be deemed
to be described conclusively in survey plans approved by the Nisg̱a'a
Nation and the grantee, as follows:


a. a survey plan attached to a grant given on the effective date will be
deemed to be approved by the Nisg̱a'a Nation and the grantee; and


b. for any portion of a right of way area that is not described in any
survey plan attached to the grant given on the effective date, either
the Nisg̱a'a Nation or the grantee may deliver to the other, at any time,
a survey plan for approval in writing. If approval is not given within
30 days, then the Nisg̱a'a Nation or the grantee may refer the matter in
dispute to dispute resolution for final determination, as set out in the
grant.


Application of Nisg̱a'a Law


6.
Nisg̱a'a laws apply to secondary provincial road rights of way areas,
public utility rights of way areas, and works under licence to British
Columbia or a public utility from the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a
Village, to the extent that the Nisg̱a'a laws do not:


a. impair the ability to use and occupy a right of way area for the
purposes for which the right of way was granted;


b. specify a more stringent standard of design or operation for road or
utility works that are on a right of way area, or under licence, than is
set out in federal or provincial laws of general application in British
Columbia; or


c. impair the ability to use any works under licence for the purposes
for which the licence was granted.


7.
Any right of way, other interest, or licence, granted under this Chapter
on the effective date, will be in the applicable form set out in
Appendix C-3 or C-4 and will include any modification agreed upon in
writing before the effective date by the Nisg̱a'a Tribal Council and the
person entitled to the right of way, other interest, or licence.



NISG̱A'A HIGHWAY


Ownership of the Nisg̱a'a Highway Corridor


8.
As of the effective date, British Columbia owns the Nisg̱a'a Highway
corridor to use as a public highway, and the Parties will execute
documents and take reasonable steps to the extent necessary to provide
British Columbia administration, control, and ownership of the Nisg̱a'a
Highway corridor.


Description of Nisg̱a'a Highway Corridor


9.
As of the effective date, the Nisg̱a'a Highway corridor consists of the
lands set out in Schedule A. The detailed location and dimensions of the
Nisg̱a'a Highway corridor are deemed to be described conclusively in
survey plans approved by the Nisg̱a'a Nation and British Columbia, as
follows:


a. on or after the effective date, either the Nisg̱a'a Nation or British
Columbia may deliver to the other a survey plan of all or any portion of
the Nisg̱a'a Highway corridor for approval by the other in writing; and


b. if approval is not given within 30 days, then either the Nisg̱a'a
Nation or British Columbia may refer the matter to be finally determined
by arbitration under Stage Three of the Dispute Resolution Chapter.


Nisg̱a'a Highway Corridor Dimensions


10.
Unless otherwise described in a survey plan approved under paragraph 9,
the width of the Nisg̱a'a Highway corridor is 30 metres, except that the
width is greater than 30 metres where required to include those:


a. bridges, drainage, and support works, and other road works; and


b. cuts and fills, plus an additional three metres on both sides,
measured from the toe of the fill, and from the top of the cut


that are part of the Nisg̱a'a Highway existing on the effective date.


Closure of Nisg̱a'a Highway


11.
If British Columbia discontinues and closes any portion of the Nisg̱a'a
Highway corridor:


a. it will transfer to the Nisg̱a'a Nation the estate in fee simple, as
described in paragraph 3 of the Lands Chapter, for that portion of the
Nisg̱a'a Highway corridor;


b. that portion of the Nisg̱a'a Highway corridor will cease to be a part
of the Nisg̱a'a Highway corridor; and


c. the Nisg̱a'a Nation may make that portion of the Nisg̱a'a Highway
corridor Nisg̱a'a Lands, in accordance with the process referred to in
paragraph 9 of the Lands Chapter.


Relocation of Nisg̱a'a Highway


12.
If the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village requires a portion of the
Nisg̱a'a Highway corridor for another purpose, the Nisg̱a'a Nation or that
Nisg̱a'a Village may request British Columbia to relocate that portion of
the Nisg̱a'a Highway corridor and, if:


a. the new location is reasonably suitable for use as a highway of a
comparable standard considering construction, maintenance, operation,
and costs; and


b. the Nisg̱a'a Nation or that Nisg̱a'a Village pays all reasonable costs,
including costs of design, planning, supervision, land, and construction


British Columbia will not unreasonably refuse to undertake the
relocation.


13.
If a portion of the Nisg̱a'a Highway corridor is relocated:


a. British Columbia will transfer to the Nisg̱a'a Nation or Nisg̱a'a
Village, as the case may be, the estate in fee simple, as described in
paragraph 3 of the Lands Chapter, to that portion of the Nisg̱a'a Highway
corridor that is abandoned;


b. that portion of the Nisg̱a'a Highway corridor will cease to be a part
of the Nisg̱a'a Highway corridor;


c. the Nisg̱a'a Nation may make that portion of the Nisg̱a'a Highway
corridor Nisg̱a'a Lands, in accordance with the process referred to in
paragraph 9 of the Lands Chapter; and


d. the Nisg̱a'a Nation or that Nisg̱a'a Village, as the case may be, will
transfer to British Columbia the estate in fee simple, as described in
paragraph 3 of the Lands Chapter, to the area of land in the relocated
portion of the Nisg̱a'a Highway corridor and that area of land will no
longer be Nisg̱a'a Lands.


14.
A relocation under paragraph 12 does not affect the calculation of the
total area of all British Columbia rights of way.


Highway Alignment


15.
British Columbia will exercise its expropriation powers in respect of
fee simple lands, on the alignment of the Nisg̱a'a Highway, that are not
Nisg̱a'a Lands in the same manner as it exercises those powers in respect
of comparable highways elsewhere in British Columbia.


Nisg̱a'a Highway Extension to Highway 37


16.
British Columbia will consider the extension of the Nisg̱a'a Highway from
Nass Camp to connect with Highway 37, in accordance with provincial
priorities and having regard to British Columbia's long term goal of
completing that extension.



SECONDARY PROVINCIAL ROADS


Secondary Provincial Roads Rights of Way Grants


17.
On the effective date, the Nisg̱a'a Nation will grant to British
Columbia, in accordance with this Agreement, the rights of way for
secondary provincial roads as set out in Appendix C-1, Part 3.


Form of Grant


18.
Grants for secondary provincial road rights of way on the effective date
will be substantially in the form of Appendix C-4, Document 1 and will
include by reference all of the provisions of this Agreement that apply
to secondary provincial road rights of way, which provisions will be
subject to any express provisions in the grant.


19.
Unless the Nisg̱a'a Nation and British Columbia otherwise agree, grants
for secondary provincial road rights of way granted after the effective
date will be in the form and on the terms referred to in paragraph 18.


Rights and Privileges


20.
A grant of a right of way for a secondary provincial road right of way
area will provide British Columbia with the full, free and uninterrupted
right, liberty and right of way, in perpetuity, for the purposes of
using, constructing, re-constructing, repairing, improving, upgrading,
and maintaining, as provided in this Agreement:


a. a secondary provincial road on the right of way area as a road open
to the public;


b. a secondary provincial road on the right of way area as a road open
to industrial or resource users and, as safety permits, to the public;
or

c. works for public utility purposes.

21.
The grant in paragraph 20 will provide British Columbia, its employees,
representatives, agents, contractors, and permittees the right to enter
onto the secondary provincial road rights of way areas for the purposes
referred to in paragraph 20.



Secondary Provincial Road Rights of Way Area Dimensions



22.
Unless otherwise described in a survey plan approved under paragraph 5,
the width of a secondary provincial road right of way area is 20 metres,
except that the width is greater than 20 metres where required to
include those:


a. bridges, drainage, and support works, and other road works; and


b. cuts and fills, plus an additional three metres on both sides,
measured from the toe of the fill, and from the top of the cut


that are part of the secondary provincial road existing on the effective
date.


Nisg̱a'a Assignment of Secondary Provincial Road


23.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation may not, without the written consent of British
Columbia, assign or transfer any of its interest in any Nisg̱a'a Lands
that are subject to a secondary provincial road right of way except to a
Nisg̱a'a Village.


24.
Upon an assignment or transfer to a Nisg̱a'a Village:


a. the Nisg̱a'a Nation will, subject to a re-transfer or re-assignment of
the interest to the Nisg̱a'a Nation, be deemed to be released of its
obligations under the secondary provincial road right of way; and


b. the Nisg̱a'a Village will not assign or transfer the interest to any
third party without the written consent of British Columbia.



British Columbia Assignment of Secondary Provincial Road



25.
British Columbia may not without the written consent of the Nisg̱a'a
Nation assign or transfer any of its interest in any secondary
provincial road right of way area except for an assignment to:


a. a British Columbia Crown corporation or other British Columbia
entity; or


b. to a lender as security for a borrowing by British Columbia


and no assignment or transfer will act as a release of any of British
Columbia's obligations as set out in this Agreement, or delegate, alter,
or affect any of the regulatory powers of British Columbia.


Indemnity For Secondary Provincial Roads


26.
British Columbia will indemnify and save harmless the Nisg̱a'a Nation and
each Nisg̱a'a Village, as the case may be, from any:


a. costs, excluding fees and disbursements of solicitors and other
professional advisors;

b. damages;
c. losses; or
d. liabilities

that the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village, respectively, may suffer
or incur in connection with, or as a result of, any claims, demands,
actions, or proceedings arising out of or relating to a secondary
provincial road right of way area, except to the extent that those
costs, damages, losses, and liabilities were caused by the Nisg̱a'a
Nation or that Nisg̱a'a Village.


Abandonment of Secondary Provincial Roads


27.
British Columbia may abandon any secondary provincial road by giving
written notice to the Nisg̱a'a Nation.


28.
Subject to:


a. the express provisions in the grant of a right of way of a secondary
provincial road referred to in paragraph 27; and


b. agreement by the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village to assume
responsibility for that secondary provincial road


British Columbia will be responsible to decommission that road, remove
any structures from it, or take the steps required under federal and
provincial laws of general application that apply to comparable roads
adjacent to private lands.


29.
If, under paragraph 28, there are no applicable federal or provincial
laws of general application, British Columbia will take the steps
reasonably required to protect adjacent Nisg̱a'a Lands and the public
from damage or injury that might result from the continued existence of
the secondary provincial road.


30.
The grant of a right of way will be terminated on the date set out in
the termination notice given under paragraph 27, except that British
Columbia's liability obligations, and obligations under paragraphs 28
and 29 existing at the date of termination, will survive the
termination.



Rights of Way for Secondary Provincial Road Extensions



31.
On request of British Columbia and subject to the aggregate right of way
maximum, the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village will give a grant
substantially in the form of Appendix C-4, Document 1 granting:


a. rights of way for secondary provincial roads for the three roads
connecting the North Hoodoo Road with the easterly boundary of Nisg̱a'a
Lands as shown generally in Appendix C-1, Part 3; and


b. rights of way to extend or add to the provincial secondary roads in
accordance with paragraph 2.



CROWN ROADS


Public Utilities on Crown Road Rights of Way Areas


32.
British Columbia will permit public utilities to use the Nisg̱a'a Highway
corridor and the secondary provincial road rights of way areas to
install, operate, and maintain utility transmission and distribution
works to the extent that, in the reasonable judgement of British
Columbia, those works will not interfere with the safe and prudent use
of the existing road or existing public utility works.


Other Uses within Crown Road Rights of Way Areas


33.
British Columbia will authorize the use of the Nisg̱a'a Highway corridor
and the secondary provincial road rights of way areas for uses other
than road and public utility uses as follows:


a. British Columbia will issue a permit for a use if:


i. the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village has issued a permit for that
use, and


ii. in the reasonable judgment of British Columbia, the use will be safe
and will not interfere with the existing road or existing public utility
works; and

b. British Columbia may:

i. attach to a permit issued under subparagraph (a) conditions in
respect of safety or interference,


ii. terminate a permit issued under subparagraph (a) without
compensation if the use is unsafe or interferes with the existing or
proposed road or existing or proposed public utility works, or


iii. charge fees for a permit issued under subparagraph (a), which do
not exceed British Columbia's actual reasonable costs of issuing the
permit.



Entry on Nisg̱a'a Lands Outside Crown Road Rights of Way



34.
In addition to the provisions of paragraph 15 of the Access Chapter, and
subject to the provisions of a grant of a secondary provincial road
right of way, British Columbia, its employees, agents, contractors, or
representatives may enter onto Nisg̱a'a Lands outside the Nisg̱a'a Highway
corridor, or outside a provincial secondary road right of way area, for
the purpose of undertaking works, including:

a. constructing drainage works;
b. maintaining slope stability; or
c. removing danger trees or other hazards

as required for the protection, care, maintenance, or construction of
road or public utility works.


35.
Before commencing any work referred to in paragraph 34, British Columbia
will deliver a written work plan describing the effect and extent of the
proposed work on Nisg̱a'a Lands to the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a
Village, as the case may be, for approval.


36.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village, as the case may be, will not
unreasonably withhold approval of the work plan delivered by British
Columbia, considering the effect of the proposed work, including the
cost of the proposed work compared to the cost of alternate solutions,
the extent of the risk of not undertaking the proposed work, and the
impact of the proposed work on Nisg̱a'a Lands.


37.
If British Columbia and the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village, as the
case may be, do not agree on a work plan requested by British Columbia
within 30 days of receipt by the Nisg̱a'a Nation or that Nisg̱a'a Village
of the proposed work plan, either party may refer the disagreement to be
finally determined by arbitration under Stage Three of the Dispute
Resolution Chapter, without having to proceed through Stage Two.


38.
In undertaking works referred to in paragraph 34, British Columbia will
minimize the damage to, and time spent on, Nisg̱a'a Lands.


39.
British Columbia will pay fair compensation for any interference with,
or damage to, Nisg̱a'a Lands adjacent to the work referred to in
paragraph 34. Either party may refer a disagreement in respect of
compensation to be finally determined by arbitration under Stage Three
of the Dispute Resolution Chapter.


40.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, in an emergency,
British Columbia may undertake works and take steps, on Nisg̱a'a Lands,
that are reasonably required to be taken immediately in order to protect
works constructed on the Nisg̱a'a Highway corridor or a secondary
provincial road right of way area, or to protect persons or vehicles
using the Nisg̱a'a Highway or a secondary provincial road.


41.
In the event of an emergency referred to under paragraph 40, British
Columbia will, as soon as practicable, notify the Nisg̱a'a Nation or the
relevant Nisg̱a'a Village, as the case may be, in writing that it has
undertaken emergency work on Nisg̱a'a Lands.


Consultation Regarding Traffic Regulation


42.
Upon request of the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village, British
Columbia will consult with the Nisg̱a'a Nation or that Nisg̱a'a Village
with respect to regulation of traffic and transportation on the Nisg̱a'a
Highway or a secondary provincial road that is adjacent to a settled
area on Nisg̱a'a Lands.


Access and Safety Regulation


43.
British Columbia has the right to regulate all matters relating to:


a. the location and design of intersecting roads giving access to the
Nisg̱a'a Highway or secondary provincial roads, including:


i. regulating or requiring signs, signals, and other traffic control
devices on Nisg̱a'a Highway corridor and the secondary provincial road
rights of way areas,


ii. regulating or requiring merging lanes, on ramps and off ramps, or


iii. requiring contributions to the cost of (i) and (ii) above; and


b. the height and location of structures on Nisg̱a'a Lands immediately
adjacent to the Nisg̱a'a Highway corridor, or to a secondary provincial
road right of way area, only to the extent reasonably required to
protect the safety of the users of the Nisg̱a'a Highway and secondary
provincial roads.


44.
Subject to other provisions of this Agreement, British Columbia has no
authority to zone or otherwise regulate land use on Nisg̱a'a Lands
adjacent to the Nisg̱a'a Highway corridor or secondary provincial road
rights of way areas.


45.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village, as the case may be, will
consult with British Columbia on land use decisions relating to the
development of Nisg̱a'a Lands adjacent to the Nisg̱a'a Highway corridor.


Temporary Closure of Crown Roads


46.
Subject to paragraph 47, British Columbia may temporarily close a
portion of the Nisg̱a'a Highway or a secondary provincial road for
reasons of safety, or for reasons of care and maintenance of the Nisg̱a'a
Highway or a secondary provincial road.



Administration of the Nisg̱a'a Highway and Secondary Provincial Roads



47.
British Columbia will administer the Nisg̱a'a Highway and secondary
provincial roads, including closing, abandoning, and maintaining them,
in the same manner as it administers comparable roads elsewhere in
British Columbia.


Relocation of Secondary Provincial Roads


48.
If the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village requires a portion of a
secondary provincial road right of way area for another purpose, the
Nisg̱a'a Nation or that Nisg̱a'a Village may request British Columbia to
relocate that portion of the right of way area, and if:


a. the new location is reasonably suitable for use as a road of a
comparable standard considering construction, maintenance, operation,
and costs; and


b. the Nisg̱a'a Nation or that Nisg̱a'a Village pays all reasonable costs,
including costs of design, planning, supervision, land, and construction


British Columbia will not unreasonably refuse to undertake the
relocation.


49.
If a portion of a right of way is relocated under paragraph 48, the
right of way will be terminated for the portion of the road right of way
area that is abandoned, and the Nisg̱a'a Nation or Nisg̱a'a Village will
grant a new right of way for the relocated secondary provincial road.


50.
A relocation under paragraph 48 does not have any impact on the
calculation of the total rights of way area of British Columbia rights
of way.


Maintenance


51.
Subject to any agreement between British Columbia and the Nisg̱a'a Nation
or a Nisg̱a'a Village in respect of a secondary provincial road, the
Nisg̱a'a Nation and each Nisg̱a'a Village has no responsibility or
liability for maintenance or repair of the Nisg̱a'a Highway or a
secondary provincial road.


Use of Existing Gravel Pits on Nisg̱a'a Lands


52.
British Columbia may enter, without charge, onto Nisg̱a'a Lands to
extract gravel materials from pits existing on the effective date to
construct and maintain the Nisg̱a'a Highway or secondary provincial
roads.


53.
As soon as practicable after the effective date, British Columbia will
prepare gravel management plans for the gravel materials pits existing
on the effective date as set out in Schedule B, and submit them to the
Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village, as the case may be, for approval,
which approval will not be unreasonably withheld.


54.
British Columbia, the Nisg̱a'a Nation and each Nisg̱a'a Village will
comply with the provisions of an approved gravel management plan.


55.
Without preparing a gravel management plan, British Columbia may
continue to use a gravel materials pit that is not listed in Schedule B
and that, as of the effective date, British Columbia has been using
intermittently as a source of gravel materials for local road
maintenance, but if the rate of extraction from that pit increases
materially, British Columbia will prepare a gravel management plan for
that pit in accordance with paragraph 53.



Development of New Gravel Materials Pits on Nisg̱a'a Lands



56.
Subject to paragraph 57, British Columbia may enter, without charge,
onto Nisg̱a'a Lands to locate and extract sufficient quantities of
unprocessed gravel materials from natural deposits as may exist on
Nisg̱a'a Lands for use by British Columbia to construct and maintain the
Nisg̱a'a Highway or secondary provincial roads.


57.
Before undertaking any excavation for gravel material samples or other
exploration work on Nisg̱a'a Lands under paragraph 56, British Columbia
will prepare a written exploration plan, indicating generally the
proposed location of exploration and the method and extent of proposed
work, for approval by the Nisg̱a'a Nation or the Nisg̱a'a Village, as the
case may be, which approval will not be unreasonably withheld.


58.
In respect of a written exploration plan under paragraph 57:


a. British Columbia will select a proposed location to explore for a
gravel materials pit, taking into account the effect of a development at
that proposed location on:


i. the lands adjacent to the proposed location, and


ii. any unique attributes of the lands at the proposed location and
adjacent lands; and


b. in considering whether to approve that plan, the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a
Nisg̱a'a Village, as the case may be, will take account of the cost
efficiencies of the proposed location in relation to alternate
locations.


59.
After approval is obtained under paragraph 57 for an exploration plan,
British Columbia will prepare and obtain approval for a gravel
management plan in accordance with paragraph 53 before commencing the
development of any gravel materials pit.



NISG̱A'A ROADS GENERAL


Public Use and Right to Close Nisg̱a'a Roads to Public


60.
Nisg̱a'a roads will be administered as follows:


a. the Nisg̱a'a Nation may close to the public any portion of a Nisg̱a'a
road that is not within Nisg̱a'a Village Lands; and


b. a Nisg̱a'a Village will permit public use of those Nisg̱a'a roads on
its Nisg̱a'a Village lands that would be open to the public in comparable
communities elsewhere in British Columbia, and accordingly may close a
Nisg̱a'a road in a Nisg̱a'a Village for safety reasons.


Maintenance


61.
British Columbia is not responsible or liable for maintenance or repair
of a Nisg̱a'a road.



Development of Gravel Materials Deposits on Crown Lands for Nisg̱a'a
Use



62.
Subject to paragraph 63, the Nisg̱a'a Nation may enter onto Crown lands
to locate and extract, without charge, sufficient quantities of
unprocessed gravel materials from natural deposits as may exist on Crown
lands for use by the Nisg̱a'a Nation for public purposes.


63.
The rights and obligations of British Columbia set out in paragraphs 52
to 59 and, as appropriate, British Columbia's normal application
procedures, will apply to the Nisg̱a'a Nation, in respect of the
location, development, and extraction of gravel materials on Crown
lands, under paragraph 62.


64.
British Columbia will not unreasonably withhold approval for any
exploration plan or gravel management plan prepared and submitted by the
Nisg̱a'a Nation under paragraph 63.



PRIVATE ROADS



Grant of Private Road Rights of Way as of the Effective Date



65.
On the effective date, the Nisg̱a'a Nation will grant private road rights
of way for the private roads listed in Appendix C-1, Part 3.


Form of Grant for Private Road Rights of Way


66.
Grants for private road rights of way given on the effective date will
be substantially in the form of Appendix C-4, Document 2.


Termination of Private Rights of Way


67.
Subject to the express provisions of a grant of a private road right of
way, upon the termination of the interest or right to which that private
road right of way provides access, the private road right of way will
terminate.



UTILITIES GENERAL


Public Utility Rights of Way as of the Effective Date


68.
On the effective date:


a. for public utility works located on a Crown road right of way area on
Nisg̱a'a lands, British Columbia will be deemed to have granted the
public utility the right to use the Crown road right of way area for the
installation, operation, and maintenance of the existing utility
transmission and distribution works, subject to regulation by British
Columbia in the same manner as British Columbia regulates public
utilities on road rights of way elsewhere in British Columbia;


b. for Hydro works not located on a Crown road right of way area, the
Nisg̱a'a Nation will give the grants to Hydro, as set out in Appendix
C-1, Part 2, substantially in the form set out in Appendix C-3, Document
1;


c. for BC TEL works not located on a Crown road right of way area, the
Nisg̱a'a Nation will give the grants to BC TEL as set out in Appendix
C-1, Part 2, substantially in the form set out in Appendix C-3, Document
2; and


d. to provide access across Nisg̱a'a Lands to Hydro rights of way areas
and works, the Nisg̱a'a Nation will grant to Hydro rights of way as set
out in Appendix C-1, Part 3, substantially in the form contained in
Appendix C-4, Document 3.


Public Utilities on Crown Roads


69.
Subject to this Chapter, public utilities may, with the prior written
approval of British Columbia, locate utility transmission and
distribution works on Crown roads rights of way areas.


Public Utilities on Nisg̱a'a Lands


70.
Subject to this Chapter, Hydro and BC TEL may, with the prior written
approval of the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village, locate distribution
works on Nisg̱a'a Lands to meet demands for service.


71.
Hydro or BC TEL may, with the prior written approval of the Nisg̱a'a
Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village, install new works on Nisg̱a'a Lands and
provide new service connections after the effective date on terms
substantially as set out in:

a. Appendix C-3, Document 1 for Hydro; and
b. Appendix C-3, Document 2 for BC TEL

so that Hydro and BC TEL have the opportunity to extend their
distribution systems according to their policies in other comparable
communities in British Columbia.


72.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation and each Nisg̱a'a Village will not unreasonably
withhold approval for Hydro or BC TEL works referred to in paragraph 71.


73.
Nothing in paragraph 71 or 72 requires Hydro or BC TEL to obtain
approval from the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village for usual service
extensions or connections to works on a Crown road right of way area or
a public utility right of way area.


Alterations to Hydro Rights of Way Areas


74.
If under the terms of a grant of a Hydro right of way the Nisg̱a'a Nation
or a Nisg̱a'a Village requires Hydro to:


a. relocate a portion of the Hydro right of way area for Hydro
transmission or distribution works existing on the effective date; or


b. include within a Hydro right of way area Hydro transmission or
distribution works that:


i. are located on Nisg̱a'a Lands outside of a Crown road right of way
area or Hydro right of way area; and

ii. exist on the effective date

the relocation or inclusion will not have any impact on the calculation
of the total rights of way area of British Columbia rights of way.



SCHEDULE A — NISG̱A'A HIGHWAY CORRIDOR




Section A —

Kincolith to that part of the southerly boundary of former
Lachkaltsap Indian Reserve No. 9, shown as being the southerly
boundary of Block A of District Lot 7051, Cassiar District, on
Plan 12431, excluding the portion within District Lot 2 and
District Lot 3965, being Red Bluff Indian Reserve No. 88, both in
Range 5 Coast District

Maps 103I.091, 103I.092, 103P.001, 103P.002, and 103P.003



Section B —

From the southerly boundary of former Lachkaltsap Indian Reserve
No. 9 shown as being Block A of District Lot 7051, Cassiar
District, on Plan 12431, to the southerly boundary of former
Zaulzap Indian Reserve No. 29, being the southerly boundary of

Anhluut'uksim La
x
mihl Angwinga'Asanskwhl

Nisg̱a'a (a.k.a Nisg̱a'a Memorial Lava Bed Park)

Maps 103P.003, 103P.004, and 103P.014



Section C —

Anlaw Road (Gitwinksihlkw Access Road) between the easterly
boundary of former Gitwinksihlkw Indian Reserve No. 7 and the left
natural boundary of Nass River, which is also a portion of the
boundary of

Anhluut'uksim La
x
mihl Angwinga'Asanskwhl

Nisg̱a'a (a.k.a Nisg̱a'a Memorial Lava Bed Park) as shown on
Land Act
Survey Plan 11 Tube 1711

Map 103P.014



Section D —

Section running between the right natural boundary of Tseax River
and the northerly boundary of the BC Hydro right of way lying
within District Lot 1726, as shown on Plan 7237 on deposit in the
Land Title Office in Prince George

Maps 103P.025 and 103P.026



Section E —

Aiyansh Road No. 180 between the Nisg̱a'a Highway running through
the Southeast 1/4 of District Lot 4011, Cassiar District, and the
northerly boundary of the Northeast 1/4 of District Lot 4012,
being part of the boundary of former New Aiyansh Indian Reserve
No. 1 as shown on RS5608 (52-09-14)

Map 103P.025



Section F —

Nass Forest Service Road (FSR 7876.01 – Section 01) running from
junction of Nisg̱a'a Highway with Road No. 325 northeasterly to its
intersection with the boundary of Nisg̱a'a Lands within District
Lot 1751, Cassiar District

Maps 103P.026 and 103P.036






SCHEDULE B — GRAVEL MATERIALS PITS ON NISG̱A'A LANDS





Aiyansh Pit

(Sandhill)


Pit No. 5221

103P.025



Anudol Pit

Pit No. 5223

103P.003



Ansedagan Pit

Pit No. 5233

103P.014



Ginlulak Quarry

Pit No. 5224A

103P.003



Ksedin Pit

Pit No. 5222

103P.004



Kwinhak Pit

Pit No. 5256

103P.003



Zaulzap Quarry

Pit No. 5206

103P.014







CHAPTER 8


FISHERIES



GENERAL


Nisg̱a'a Fish Entitlements


1.
Nisg̱a'a citizens have the right to harvest fish and aquatic plants in
accordance with this Agreement, subject to:


a. measures that are necessary for conservation; and


b. legislation enacted for the purposes of public health or public
safety.


2.
Notwithstanding that Nisg̱a'a fish entitlements are treaty rights, a
Nisg̱a'a fish allocation that is set out as a percentage of the total
allowable catch has the same priority in fisheries management decisions
as the remainder of the total allowable catch of that species harvested
in recreational and commercial fisheries.


3.
This Agreement is not intended to alter federal and provincial laws of
general application in respect of property in fish or aquatic plants.


4.
Nisg̱a'a fish entitlements are held by the Nisg̱a'a Nation.


5.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation may not dispose of Nisg̱a'a fish entitlements.


6.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may authorize persons other than Nisg̱a'a
citizens to harvest fish or aquatic plants in Nisg̱a'a fisheries, in
accordance with this Agreement, the Harvest Agreement and Nisg̱a'a annual
fishing plans. This authority is not intended to alter the application
of federal and provincial laws of general application in respect of
foreign fishing vessels in Canadian waters.


Licences, Fees, Charges, and Royalties


7.
Canada and British Columbia will not require the Nisg̱a'a Nation, Nisg̱a'a
Villages, Nisg̱a'a Institutions, Nisg̱a'a Corporations, Nisg̱a'a citizens,
or other persons authorized by Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government to harvest fish
or aquatic plants under this Agreement:

a. to have federal or provincial licences; or
b. to pay fees, charges, or royalties

in respect of the harvest for domestic purposes of fish or aquatic
plants under this Agreement. This paragraph does not restrict Canada's
ability to require licences for the use and possession of firearms under
federal laws on the same basis as applies to other aboriginal people of
Canada.


8.
Persons who sell fish harvested under this Agreement are subject to fees
and charges applied to commercial harvesters in respect of the sale of
fish or aquatic plants except to the extent that Nisg̱a'a Lisims
Government, a Nisg̱a'a Institution, or a Nisg̱a'a Corporation funds or
performs the activities for which those fees and charges are levied.


Trade and Barter


9.
Subject to Nisg̱a'a laws, Nisg̱a'a citizens have the right to trade or
barter among themselves or with other aboriginal people any fish and
aquatic plants harvested in Nisg̱a'a fisheries.


Harvesting Under Other Laws and Agreements


10.
This Agreement does not preclude Nisg̱a'a Institutions, Nisg̱a'a
Corporations, or Nisg̱a'a citizens from harvesting fish and aquatic
plants throughout Canada in accordance with:

a. federal and provincial laws;

b. any agreements that are in accordance with laws of general
application between the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, a Nisg̱a'a
Institution, or a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, on the one hand, and other
aboriginal people on the other; or


c. any arrangements between other aboriginal people and Canada or
British Columbia.



SALMON


Nisg̱a'a Salmon Allocations


11.
In every year in which it is necessary for conservation, the Minister
will determine a minimum escapement level for one or more species of
Nass salmon.


12.
The Minister will not permit any directed harvests of a species of Nass
salmon in any year if:


a. there is a minimum escapement level for that species of Nass salmon;
and


b. the number of that species of Nass salmon returning to Canadian
waters, less incidental harvests, is less than or equal to the minimum
escapement level for that species.


13.
In any year:


a. if the Minister has not determined a minimum escapement level for a
species of Nass salmon; or


b. if the number of a species of Nass salmon returning to Canadian
waters, less incidental harvests, is greater than the minimum escapement
level determined by the Minister for that species


the amount of that species that the Nisg̱a'a Nation is entitled to
harvest will be determined in accordance with Schedule A and paragraph
16.


14.
The amount of each species of Nass salmon in the Nisg̱a'a fish
allocations set out in Schedule A varies with the size of the total run
of that species returning to Canadian waters in each year, as set out in
Schedule A.


Overages and Underages


15.
Following the fishing season in each year, the Minister and Nisg̱a'a
Lisims Government will conduct an accounting of that year's harvest of
Nass salmon, in accordance with Schedule B.


16.
If there is an overage or underage of a species of Nass salmon in any
year, the amount of that species of Nass salmon to be harvested in
Nisg̱a'a fisheries will be adjusted in subsequent years, in accordance
with Schedule B.


17.
In every year the Minister will manage all Canadian fisheries that
harvest Nass salmon in order to minimize overharvests of each species of
Nass salmon.


18.
The Minister and Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government will endeavour to minimize
any overages or underages in each year and to minimize the accumulation
of overages and underages in successive years.


Adjustment of Species Composition


19.
In any year the Minister and Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may agree to
adjust the species composition of the Nisg̱a'a harvest for that year in
accordance with the system of equivalencies set out in Schedule C.


20.
If a proposed Nisg̱a'a annual fishing plan includes an adjustment under
paragraph 19 that will affect a species or fishery under the management
authority of the other Party, the Minister and Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government
will consult with the other Party's representatives on the Joint
Fisheries Management Committee, and will notify those representatives of
any in-season adjustments.


Harvest Agreement


21.
On the effective date, the Parties will enter into a Harvest Agreement
pursuant to paragraph 22. The Harvest Agreement does not form part of
this Agreement.


22.
The Harvest Agreement will:


a. include Nisg̱a'a fish allocations equivalent to:


i. 13% of each year's adjusted total allowable catch for Nass sockeye
salmon, and


ii. 15% of each year's adjusted total allowable catch for Nass pink
salmon;


b. be for a term of 25 years and be replaceable at the discretion of the
Nisg̱a'a Nation every 15 years for a further 25 years;


c. include provisions for the harvest and disposition of fish,
determination of overages and underages, harvest monitoring, and
fisheries management that are consistent with the similar provisions set
out in this Agreement; and


d. include a dispute resolution process and a requirement for fair
compensation if the Harvest Agreement is breached by terminating or
reducing the Nisg̱a'a fish allocations pursuant to subparagraph (a).


23.
The Harvest Agreement will be established under federal and provincial
settlement legislation.


24.
The Harvest Agreement is not intended to be a treaty or land claims
agreement, and it is not intended to recognize or affirm aboriginal or
treaty rights, within the meaning of sections 25 or 35 of the
Constitution Act, 1982
.


25.
The Minister will implement the Harvest Agreement by:


a. issuing licences to Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government; or

b. other means under federal or provincial laws.

26.
Fisheries under the Harvest Agreement have the same priority as
commercial and recreational fisheries in fisheries management decisions
made by the Minister.


27.
Fish harvested under the Harvest Agreement may be sold in accordance
with the Harvest Agreement.


Harvest of Surplus Nass Salmon


28.
In any year, the Minister may determine whether there is a surplus of a
species of Nass salmon, and the size of that surplus.


29.
The Joint Fisheries Management Committee may:


a. recommend to the Minister procedures for the identification of a
surplus and terms and conditions for the harvest of the surplus; and


b. provide advice to the Minister in respect of the size of the surplus.


30.
The Minister may permit Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government to harvest some or all
of the surplus Nass salmon on reaching agreement with Nisg̱a'a Lisims
Government in respect of:

a. the terms and conditions of the harvest; and

b. whether all or part of the harvest will be included in the
determination of overages and underages.


Disposition of Salmon Harvests


31.
Subject to paragraph 33, the Nisg̱a'a Nation, and its agents,
contractors, and licensees authorized by Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government, have
the right to sell Nass salmon harvested under this Agreement.


32.
For greater certainty, in accordance with paragraph 13 of the General
Provisions Chapter, federal and provincial laws of general application
pertaining to the sale of fish, in respect of commercial transactions,
health and safety, transport, inspection, processing, packaging,
storage, export, quality control, and labelling of fish, apply to the
sale of all Nass salmon harvested in Nisg̱a'a fisheries.


33.
If, in any year, there are no directed harvests in Canadian commercial
or recreational fisheries of a species of Nass salmon, sale of that
species of Nass salmon harvested in directed harvests of that species in
that year's Nisg̱a'a fisheries will not be permitted.



ENHANCEMENT


34.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may conduct enhancement initiatives for Nass
salmon or Nass steelhead only with the approval of the Minister. This
approval will include provisions in respect of the determination of
surpluses resulting from an approved enhancement initiative. The Joint
Fisheries Management Committee may make recommendations in respect of
those initiatives and provisions.


35.
In any year, the portion of the return to Canadian waters of chinook,
coho, or chum salmon that can be identified as resulting from approved
Nisg̱a'a enhancement initiatives in the Nass Area will be excluded from
the determination of the Nisg̱a'a fish allocations under paragraph 13 for
that year. The Nisg̱a'a fish allocations of these fish are 21% of the
chinook, 8% of the coho and 8% of the chum salmon, subject to measures
that are necessary for conservation for non-enhanced Nass salmon and
non-enhanced Nass steelhead stocks.


36.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation has the right to harvest surplus Nass salmon that
result from an approved Nisg̱a'a enhancement initiative, in the same
proportion as the Nisg̱a'a contribution to the total cost of the
initiative. These harvests are not subject to paragraph 16 and are in
addition to the Nisg̱a'a fish allocations under paragraph 13 and 35 and
the Harvest Agreement.


37.
Notwithstanding paragraphs 13, 16, 35, and 36, the Minister and Nisg̱a'a
Lisims Government may negotiate agreements in respect of the Nisg̱a'a
harvests of Nass salmon or Nass steelhead that result from Nisg̱a'a
enhancement initiatives.



STEELHEAD


General


38.
Subject to paragraph 43, Nisg̱a'a fish entitlements of Nass steelhead are
for domestic purposes.


39.
The Parties, or any of them, may conduct studies to determine the
status, conservation requirements, and Canadian total allowable catch of
Nass steelhead stocks. The studies may include the determination of:


a. reliable estimates of sustainable harvest, including the
determination of escapement requirements and total allowable catch;


b. the productive capacity of fish habitat in the Nass Area; and


c. measures to improve Nass steelhead stocks and plans to implement
those measures.


40.
The Joint Fisheries Management Committee will formulate plans for any
studies to be conducted under paragraph 39 and will provide
recommendations to the Minister and Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government on the
conduct of those studies.


41.
If a study conducted under paragraph 39 identifies a conservation
concern for a Nass steelhead stock, the Joint Fisheries Management
Committee will provide recommendations to the Minister and Nisg̱a'a
Lisims Government on appropriate measures to address the concern.


42.
After considering studies conducted under paragraphs 44 or 51, if it is
necessary for conservation, the Minister will establish an annual
escapement goal for summer-run or winter-run Nass steelhead stocks
returning to Canadian waters below which no directed harvests for that
stock will be permitted.


Disposition of Steelhead Harvests


43.
Any sale of Nass steelhead harvested under this Agreement will be in
accordance with federal and provincial laws of general application, and
any Nisg̱a'a law in respect of sale of fish.


Summer-run Steelhead


44.
British Columbia and the Nisg̱a'a Nation will negotiate and attempt to
reach agreement about studies required to determine an annual escapement
goal for summer-run Nass steelhead. The Minister will not permit any
directed harvest of summer-run Nass steelhead during those studies.


45.
If no annual escapement goal for summer-run Nass steelhead is
established under paragraph 42, subject to paragraph 43, Nisg̱a'a
citizens have the right to harvest summer-run Nass steelhead for
domestic purposes.


46.
If an annual escapement goal for summer-run Nass steelhead is
established under paragraph 42, Nisg̱a'a citizens have the right to
harvest summer-run Nass steelhead under the Nisg̱a'a fish allocation set
out in Schedule D.


47.
Subject to the Nisg̱a'a fish allocation of summer-run Nass steelhead set
out in subparagraph 2 (a) of Schedule D, if the number of summer-run
Nass steelhead returning to the Nass watershed is less than the annual
escapement goal, the Nisg̱a'a Nation and British Columbia will take
measures to limit summer-run Nass steelhead mortalities.


Winter-run Steelhead


48.
Before a Nisg̱a'a fish allocation of winter-run Nass steelhead is
established under paragraph 49, subject to paragraph 43, Nisg̱a'a
citizens have the right to harvest winter-run Nass steelhead for
domestic purposes.


49.
If an annual escapement goal for winter-run Nass steelhead is
established under paragraph 42, British Columbia and the Nisg̱a'a Nation
may negotiate a Nisg̱a'a fish allocation of winter-run Nass steelhead.
Any Nisg̱a'a fish allocation established under this paragraph will be
added to Schedule D.


50.
If a Nisg̱a'a fish allocation of winter-run Nass steelhead is established
under paragraph 49, Nisg̱a'a citizens have the right to harvest
winter-run Nass steelhead under that Nisg̱a'a fish allocation.


51.
If the Minister determines that it is necessary to suspend directed
harvesting of winter-run Nass steelhead because of a conservation
concern about winter-run Nass steelhead, studies under paragraph 39 will
be conducted. The Minister will not permit any directed harvest of
winter-run Nass steelhead during those studies.



NON-SALMON SPECIES AND AQUATIC PLANTS



Nisg̱a'a Fish Entitlements of Non-Salmon Species and Aquatic Plants



52.
Subject to paragraph 67, Nisg̱a'a fish entitlements to non-salmon species
and aquatic plants are for domestic purposes.


53.
Before a Nisg̱a'a fish allocation of a non-salmon species or an aquatic
plant is established under this Agreement, Nisg̱a'a citizens have the
right to harvest non-salmon species and aquatic plants within the Nass
Area for domestic purposes.


54.
Canada or British Columbia, in respect of any non-salmon species or
aquatic plant within their respective management authority, or the
Nisg̱a'a Nation may propose the establishment of a Nisg̱a'a fish
allocation that will be the Nisg̱a'a fish entitlement to that non-salmon
species or aquatic plant.


55.
Unless otherwise agreed by the Nisg̱a'a Nation and Canada or British
Columbia for non-salmon species or aquatic plants, within their
respective management authority, the Nisg̱a'a fish allocation of each
non-salmon species or aquatic plant will be 125% of the basic Nisg̱a'a
fish entitlement to that species.


56.
The basic Nisg̱a'a fish entitlements to non-salmon species and aquatic
plants will be determined by taking into account:


a. current and past Nisg̱a'a use for domestic purposes;


b. the impact of conservation requirements and harvesting by others on
Nisg̱a'a use for domestic purposes;

c. the biological status of the species;
d. changes in Nisg̱a'a fishing effort; and

e. other factors that the Nisg̱a'a Nation and Canada or British Columbia,
as the case may be, agree are relevant.


57.
Before a Nisg̱a'a fish allocation of a non-salmon species or aquatic
plant is established, the Nisg̱a'a Nation and Canada or British Columbia,
for non-salmon species and aquatic plants within their respective
management authority, will:


a. seek the advice of the Joint Fisheries Management Committee on the
determination of the basic Nisg̱a'a fish entitlement to that non-salmon
species or aquatic plant; and


b. conduct any studies they consider necessary to determine the basic
Nisg̱a'a fish entitlement to that non-salmon species or aquatic plant.


58.
As soon as practicable after the effective date, the Nisg̱a'a Nation and
Canada or British Columbia, for non-salmon species and aquatic plants
within their respective management authority, will negotiate and attempt
to reach agreement on basic Nisg̱a'a fish entitlements to:

a. dungeness, tanner, and king crab;
b. halibut;
c. prawns and shrimp;
d. herring; and

e. aquatic plants used in the herring roe-on-kelp fishery.


59.
If the Nisg̱a'a Nation and Canada or British Columbia, for non-salmon
species and aquatic plants within their respective management authority,
do not agree on the basic Nisg̱a'a fish entitlement to a non-salmon
species or aquatic plant, that basic Nisg̱a'a fish entitlement will be
finally determined by arbitration under the Dispute Resolution Chapter.


60.
Any Nisg̱a'a fish allocation of non-salmon species or aquatic plants
established under this Chapter will be set out in Schedule E.


61.
If a Nisg̱a'a fish allocation is established for a non-salmon species or
aquatic plant, Nisg̱a'a citizens have the right to harvest that
non-salmon species or aquatic plant under that Nisg̱a'a fish allocation.


Oolichan


62.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation, together with any other persons who have aboriginal
rights to harvest oolichan in the Nass Area, has the right to harvest
the total harvest of oolichan in the Nass Area.


63.
If there are any agreements between the Nisg̱a'a Nation and other
aboriginal people in respect of the harvesting of oolichan in the Nass
Area, Nisg̱a'a harvests of those oolichan will be in accordance with
those agreements.


Intertidal Bivalves


64.
Nisg̱a'a citizens have the right to harvest, for domestic purposes,
intertidal bivalves within those portions of the Nass Area set out in
Appendix I.


65.
The right to harvest intertidal bivalves set out in paragraph 64 is the
Nisg̱a'a fish allocation of intertidal bivalves.


66.
The Minister will not permit commercial harvesting of intertidal
bivalves within those portions of the Nass Area set out in Appendix I.


Disposition of Non-Salmon Species and Aquatic Plants


67.
Any sale of non-salmon species and aquatic plants harvested under
Nisg̱a'a fish entitlements will be in accordance with federal and
provincial laws of general application and any Nisg̱a'a law in respect of
sale of fish or aquatic plants.



FISHERIES MANAGEMENT


Responsibilities of the Parties


68.
Subject to this Agreement, the Minister is responsible for the
management of fisheries and fish habitat.


69.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws that are in respect of the
Nisg̱a'a Nation's rights and obligations in respect of fish and aquatic
plants under, and that are consistent with, this Agreement and the
Harvest Agreement and that are not inconsistent with Nisg̱a'a annual
fishing plans including matters such as:


a. distribution of the Nisg̱a'a fish entitlements under this Agreement
and Nisg̱a'a fish allocations under the Harvest Agreement;


b. authorization of persons other than Nisg̱a'a citizens to harvest fish
or aquatic plants from the Nisg̱a'a fish entitlements under this
Agreement and Nisg̱a'a fish allocations under the Harvest Agreement;


c. the trade or barter of fish or aquatic plants harvested under the
Nisg̱a'a fish entitlements under this Agreement or the Nisg̱a'a fish
allocations under the Harvest Agreement;


d. designation and documentation of fishing vessels;


e. identification, in a manner compatible with that required under
federal and provincial laws of general application, of fishing vessels
and gear; and

f. other matters agreed to by the Parties.

70.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government will make laws that are consistent with this
Agreement and the Harvest Agreement and that are not inconsistent with
Nisg̱a'a annual fishing plans:


a. to establish and administer licensing requirements, for the harvest
of fish or aquatic plants under this Agreement and the Harvest
Agreement; and


b. to require the designation and documentation of persons who harvest
fish or aquatic plants under this Agreement or the Harvest Agreement.


71.
In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between a Nisg̱a'a law made
under paragraphs 69 or 70 and a federal or provincial law, the Nisg̱a'a
law will prevail to the extent of the inconsistency or conflict.


72.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws in respect of sale, in
accordance with this Agreement, of fish or aquatic plants that are
harvested under this Agreement or the Harvest Agreement.


73.
In the event of a conflict between a law made under paragraph 72 and a
federal or provincial law of general application, the federal or
provincial law will prevail to the extent of the conflict.


74.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government will make laws to require:


a. that any fish harvested under this Agreement or the Harvest Agreement
that are transported outside Nisg̱a'a Lands for the purpose of trade or
barter be identified as fish for trade or barter; and


b. Nisg̱a'a citizens and the authorized agents, contractors, and
licensees of Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government to comply with Nisg̱a'a annual
fishing plans.


Nisg̱a'a Fisheries Operational Guidelines


75.
The Parties will prepare and maintain a document to be known as the
"Nisg̱a'a Fisheries Operational Guidelines" that will set out the
operational principles, procedures, and guidelines to assist each of
them, and the Joint Fisheries Management Committee, in carrying out the
provisions of this Chapter and the Harvest Agreement, including the
preparation and recommendation of Nisg̱a'a annual fishing plans. The
Parties will amend the document as required as improved fisheries
management and stock assessment procedures are developed.


76.
The Nisg̱a'a Fisheries Operational Guidelines:

a. is not a part of this Agreement;

b. is not intended to be a treaty or land claims agreement, and it is
not intended to recognize or affirm aboriginal or treaty rights, within
the meaning of sections 25 or 35 of the
Constitution Act, 1982
; and

c. does not create legal obligations.

Management Structure


77.
On the effective date, the Parties will establish the Joint Fisheries
Management Committee to facilitate cooperative planning and conduct of
Nisg̱a'a fisheries and enhancement initiatives in the Nass Area. For this
purpose, the Joint Fisheries Management Committee will carry out the
responsibilities assigned to it under this Agreement, including:


a. sharing information and plans for existing and proposed fisheries
that could affect or be affected by Nisg̱a'a fisheries;


b. arranging for collection and exchange of data required to carry out
the provisions of this Chapter;

c. providing advice concerning escapement goals;

d. making recommendations to the Minister and Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government
in respect of other conservation requirements and the management of fish
and aquatic plants;


e. providing advice to the Parties in respect of the determination of
the basic Nisg̱a'a fish entitlements to non-salmon species and aquatic
plants;


f. making recommendations to the Minister and Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government
in respect of Nisg̱a'a overages and underages, in accordance with
Schedule B;


g. making recommendations to the Minister and Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government
in respect of Nisg̱a'a annual fishing plans;


h. making recommendations to the Minister and Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government
in respect of studies for enhancement and enhancement initiatives;


i. making recommendations and providing advice to the Minister in
respect of surpluses;


j. making recommendations to the trustees of the Lisims Fisheries
Conservation Trust in respect of projects, programs, and activities to
be funded with expenditures from that Trust;


k. communicating with other management or advisory bodies in respect of
matters of mutual interest;


l. providing advice on the coordination of the Nisg̱a'a annual fishing
plans and proposed decisions of Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government in respect of
methods, timing, and locations of harvests;


m. providing advice in respect of any proposed in-season adjustments to
the Nisg̱a'a annual fishing plans; and


n. carrying out other responsibilities agreed to by the Parties.


78.
The Minister will, as far in advance as practicable, give notice to the
Joint Fisheries Management Committee of any proposed in-season
adjustments to the Nisg̱a'a annual fishing plan, and Nisg̱a'a Lisims
Government will, as far in advance as practicable, give notice to the
Joint Fisheries Management Committee of any proposed decisions of
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government in respect of methods, timing, and locations
of Nisg̱a'a harvests.


79.
The Joint Fisheries Management Committee will have six members. The
Nisg̱a'a Nation, Canada, and British Columbia will each appoint two
members to represent them on the Joint Fisheries Management Committee.
The members of the Joint Fisheries Management Committee representing the
Nisg̱a'a Nation and Canada are responsible for functions in respect of
fisheries managed by Canada. The members of the Joint Fisheries
Management Committee representing the Nisg̱a'a Nation and British
Columbia are responsible for functions in respect of fisheries managed
by British Columbia.


80.
The Joint Fisheries Management Committee will meet as often as necessary
to carry out its responsibilities and will establish its procedures,
including procedures to carry out its responsibilities relating to
in-season fisheries management.


81.
Whenever possible, the Joint Fisheries Management Committee will carry
out its responsibilities by consensus of the members responsible for
each function. If there is no consensus, the Joint Fisheries Management
Committee will submit the recommendations or advice of each Party's
representatives.


82.
If it is impracticable for the Joint Fisheries Management Committee to
address an issue, each Party's representatives may submit their
recommendations or advice.


Other Fisheries Management Bodies


83.
The Parties acknowledge that fisheries management may involve the
consideration of issues on a regional or watershed basis. If Canada or
British Columbia proposes to establish fisheries management advisory
bodies for areas that include any part of the Nass Area, Canada or
British Columbia will consult with the Nisg̱a'a Nation in developing
those bodies and, if appropriate, will provide for the participation of
the Nisg̱a'a Nation in those bodies.


Nisg̱a'a Annual Fishing Plans


84.
Nisg̱a'a annual fishing plans are plans for the harvest, and if
applicable the sale, of fish and aquatic plants under this Agreement and
the Harvest Agreement. The plans will include, as appropriate,
provisions in respect of:


a. the methods, timing, and locations of harvest;

b. monitoring of harvest;
c. enforcement;
d. stock assessment and enhancement;

e. the terms and conditions for the sale of fish or aquatic plants;


f. authorized harvest by persons other than Nisg̱a'a citizens or Nisg̱a'a
Lisims Government;


g. in-season adjustments to any of the matters referred to in this
paragraph; and


h. other matters that the Parties agree to include in the Nisg̱a'a annual
fishing plans.


85.
The monitoring provisions referred to in subparagraph 84 (b) may
include:


a. requirements for identification of persons authorized to harvest;


b. processes for catch monitoring that may include the establishment of
designated landing sites and procedures for the transportation of fish;


c. processes for reporting and accounting of harvest and sale;


d. requirements for compiling and reporting data to the Minister; and


e. processes for verification by the Minister of the monitoring
processes.


86.
Each year Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government will propose Nisg̱a'a annual fishing
plans that:


a. are consistent with Nisg̱a'a fish entitlements under this Agreement
and Nisg̱a'a fish allocations under the Harvest Agreement;


b. set out any Nisg̱a'a preferences for methods, timing, and locations of
harvest; and


c. take into account any management concerns identified by the Minister
or Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government.


87.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government will forward the proposed Nisg̱a'a annual
fishing plans to the Joint Fisheries Management Committee on a timely
basis.


88.
The Joint Fisheries Management Committee, on a timely basis, will:


a. consider the proposed Nisg̱a'a annual fishing plans;


b. make any appropriate adjustments that are necessary to integrate the
Nisg̱a'a annual fishing plans with other fisheries conservation and
harvesting plans, while giving effect to the Nisg̱a'a preferences in
respect of methods, timing, and locations of harvest, to the extent
possible; and


c. make recommendations regarding the proposed Nisg̱a'a annual fishing
plans to the Minister and Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government.


Review of Recommendations


89.
In considering recommendations of the Joint Fisheries Management
Committee, the Minister will take into account:


a. conservation requirements and availability of fisheries resources;


b. any Nisg̱a'a preferences in respect of methods, timing, and locations
of harvests throughout the Nass Area, set out in the recommendations;


c. utilization of the fisheries resources for the benefit of all
Canadians;


d. efficient and effective harvesting of fisheries resources;


e. requirements for integration and efficient management of all
fisheries;


f. accepted scientific procedures for management of fisheries resources;
and


g. any other matters the Minister considers appropriate.


90.
After considering the recommendations of the Joint Fisheries Management
Committee under paragraph 89, the Minister, on a timely basis, will:


a. approve, or vary and approve, the Nisg̱a'a annual fishing plans
recommended by the Joint Fisheries Management Committee, or its members,
and provide written reasons for varying Nisg̱a'a annual fishing plans;
and


b. approve or reject, in whole or in part, all other recommendations
made by the Joint Fisheries Management Committee, or its members, and
provide written reasons for rejecting, in whole or in part, any of those
other recommendations


but approved Nisg̱a'a annual fishing plans, and approvals and rejections
of other recommendations, must be consistent with this Agreement and the
Harvest Agreement.


91.
If special circumstances make it impracticable to receive advice from
the Joint Fisheries Management Committee, the Minister:


a. may make the decision or take the action that the Minister considers
necessary, without receiving advice from the Joint Fisheries Management
Committee; and


b. will advise the Joint Fisheries Management Committee as soon as
practicable of the special circumstances and the decision made or action
taken.


Federal and Provincial Laws of General Application


92.
In order to:


a. avoid duplication of requirements between a Nisg̱a'a annual fishing
plan and federal and provincial laws of general application; and


b. otherwise facilitate the management of Nisg̱a'a fisheries


if there is an inconsistency between a Nisg̱a'a annual fishing plan and a
federal or provincial law of general application, the Nisg̱a'a annual
fishing plan prevails to the extent of the inconsistency.


Enforcement


93.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation may negotiate agreements with Canada or British
Columbia concerning enforcement of federal, provincial or Nisg̱a'a laws
in respect of fisheries.


94.
Persons who harvest or sell fish or aquatic plants under this Agreement
may be required to show proof of their authority to do so.


95.
Nisg̱a'a laws made in accordance with this Chapter may be enforced by
persons authorized to enforce federal, provincial, or Nisg̱a'a laws in
respect of fish and aquatic plants in British Columbia.



LISIMS FISHERIES CONSERVATION TRUST


Establishment


96.
As soon as practicable after the effective date, Canada and the Nisg̱a'a
Nation will establish a trust to be known as the Lisims Fisheries
Conservation Trust, and will undertake all actions required to register
the trust as a charity for the purposes of the
Income Tax Act
.


Appointment of Trustees


97.
Canada and the Nisg̱a'a Nation will each appoint an equal number of
trustees of the Lisims Fisheries Conservation Trust, and Canada and the
Nisg̱a'a Nation will appoint one additional trustee jointly.


Other Charities


98.
In order to realize most effectively the objects of the Lisims Fisheries
Conservation Trust, Canada and the Nisg̱a'a Nation may establish other
charities having substantially the same objects as the Lisims Fisheries
Conservation Trust, but they will have no obligation to do so or to
contribute any amount to any other charity.


Objects of Trust


99.
The objects of the Lisims Fisheries Conservation Trust will be to:


a. promote conservation and protection of Nass Area fish species;


b. facilitate sustainable management of fisheries for Nass Area species
and stocks; and


c. promote and support Nisg̱a'a participation in the stewardship of Nass
Area fisheries

for the benefit of all Canadians.

Trustees' Responsibilities


100.
The trustees will hold the Lisims Fisheries Conservation Trust property
in trust exclusively for the objects of the Lisims Fisheries
Conservation Trust and will administer the property in accordance with
the trust agreement establishing the trust.


101.
In pursuance of the objects of the Lisims Fisheries Conservation Trust,
the trustees will review, sponsor, and fund, projects, programs, and
activities that the trustees in their discretion determine serve some or
all of the following objectives:


a. to evaluate specific and integrated conservation needs and habitat
requirements for all species of Nass Area fish;


b. to assess the status of Nass salmon and non-salmon species;


c. to provide for appropriate salmon escapement monitoring processes;


d. to facilitate the seasonal estimation of Nass salmon and non-salmon
species production including providing procedures required to give
effect to the Nisg̱a'a fisheries;


e. to facilitate the discrimination of Nass salmon stocks and to
evaluate factors limiting the production of Nass salmon and non-salmon
species; and


f. to obtain gifts, donations, grants, and other contributions to the
Lisims Fisheries Conservation Trust.


102.
In pursuance of the objects of the Lisims Fisheries Conservation Trust,
the trustees may, in their discretion, initiate and direct projects,
programs, and activities that the trustees, in their discretion,
determine serve some or all of the objectives set out in paragraph 101.


103.
In reviewing, sponsoring, funding, initiating, and directing, projects,
programs, and activities under paragraphs 101 and 102, the trustees will
give priority to the monitoring of Nass salmon escapement, the
monitoring of harvests in the Nisg̱a'a fisheries and the determination of
factors limiting the production of Nass salmon and non-salmon species.


104.
In addition to any projects, programs, and activities undertaken under
paragraphs 101 and 102, the trustees may review, sponsor, fund,
initiate, or direct any other projects, programs, or activities that the
trustees, in their discretion, determine appropriate in pursuance of the
objects of the Lisims Fisheries Conservation Trust.


105.
The trustees will not use the Lisims Fisheries Conservation Trust
property to support:

a. projects, programs, or activities that:

i. monitor fisheries, other than Nisg̱a'a fisheries, outside the Nass
Area, or


ii. collect stock assessment data for salmon stocks originating from
streams outside of the Nass Area, except as required to assess Nass
salmon stocks;


b. the establishment or operation of, or representation on, the Joint
Fisheries Management Committee;


c. salaries of full time employees of the Department of Fisheries and
Oceans; or


d. the purchase of equipment for the Department of Fisheries and Oceans.


106.
In pursuance of the objects of the Lisims Fisheries Conservation Trust,
the trustees will seek and consider recommendations from the Joint
Fisheries Management Committee regarding projects, programs, and
activities to be funded by the Lisims Fisheries Conservation Trust.


Settlement


107.
Within 60 days of the effective date, or later if Canada and the Nisg̱a'a
Nation agree, Canada and the Nisg̱a'a Nation will each settle on the
trustees the respective amounts described in Schedule F.


108.
The Lisims Fisheries Conservation Trust property may be increased by
gifts, donations, grants, and other contributions.


109.
When Canada has contributed the full amount referred to in subparagraph
1 (a) of Schedule F, Canada will have discharged its obligations under
this Agreement to fund projects, programs, and activities that are
funded by the Lisims Fisheries Conservation Trust.


Other Responsibilities


110.
The operation of the Lisims Fisheries Conservation Trust will not affect
the responsibilities of Canada under federal legislation, or the
obligations of Canada or the Nisg̱a'a Nation under this Agreement.



PARTICIPATION IN THE GENERAL COMMERCIAL FISHERY


111.
On the effective date, Canada and British Columbia will each provide
funding in the respective amounts described in Schedule G to the Nisg̱a'a
Nation to enable it to increase its capacity, in the form of commercial
licences, or vessels and commercial licences, to participate in the
general commercial fishery in British Columbia. These commercial
licenses and vessels will be subject to federal and provincial laws of
general application in respect of commercial fisheries in British
Columbia.


112.
At the request of the Nisg̱a'a Nation, Canada, and British Columbia will
provide the Nisg̱a'a Nation with support for the acquisition of the
commercial licences, or vessels and commercial licences, referred to in
paragraph 111, including:

a. general fishing industry information;

b. available information concerning the fleet composition and number of
commercial vessels;


c. available commercial fishing industry cost and earnings information;


d. estimated commercial vessel and commercial licence costs; and


e. recent estimates of commercial harvests and landed values.


113.
Notwithstanding paragraph 111, the Nisg̱a'a Nation may spend up to $3
million, as adjusted under Schedule G, of the amounts referred to in
paragraph 1 of Schedule G for other fisheries related activities.



HERRING ROE-ON-KELP STUDY


114.
As soon as practicable after the effective date, the Parties will
conduct a study to assess the availability of herring and kelp within
the Nass Area to determine the feasibility of a Nisg̱a'a herring
roe-on-kelp impoundment.



INTERNATIONAL ARRANGEMENTS


115.
Canada will consult with the Nisg̱a'a Nation with respect to the
formulation of Canada's positions in relation to international
discussions or negotiations that may significantly affect fisheries
resources referred to in this Agreement.


116.
This Agreement will not affect or preclude participation of the Nisg̱a'a
Nation, Nisg̱a'a Villages, Nisg̱a'a Institutions, Nisg̱a'a Corporations, or
Nisg̱a'a citizens in commissions or fisheries management advisory bodies.



PROCESSING FACILITIES


117.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation, Nisg̱a'a Villages, Nisg̱a'a Institutions, or Nisg̱a'a
Corporations will not establish a new fish processing facility capable
of processing more than 2,000 metric tons of round weight of fish per
year, within eight years of the effective date, except as agreed to by
the Parties.



SCHEDULE A — NISG̱A'A FISH ALLOCATIONS FOR SALMON


1.
Subject to paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Schedule, in each year the Nisg̱a'a
fish allocation of each species of Nass salmon is:


a. the percentage for that species set out in Table 1, Row 1, multiplied
by


b. the estimated number of that species returning to Canada in that
year, and


c. if a portion of the return to Canadian waters of chinook, coho, or
chum salmon can be identified as resulting from Nisg̱a'a enhancement
initiatives in the Nass Area approved under paragraph 34 of the
Fisheries Chapter, that portion will be subtracted from the estimated
number of Nass salmon of that species returning to Canadian waters in
that year.


2.
If the Minister has established a minimum escapement level for a species
under paragraph 11 of the Fisheries Chapter, and the number of Nass
salmon of that species returning to Canada exceeds the minimum
escapement level but does not exceed the small return to Canada for that
species set out in Table 1, Row 2, the Nisg̱a'a fish allocation will
increase in a linear manner, from zero at the minimum escapement level
to the threshold for that species set out in Table 1, Row 3, except that
the Nisg̱a'a fish allocation will not exceed the return to Canada minus
the minimum escapement level.


3.
If the number of Nass salmon of a species returning to Canada exceeds
the large return to Canada for that species set out in Table 1, Row 2,
the Nisg̱a'a fish allocation will not exceed the maximum for that species
set out in Table 1, Row 3.


4.
If, in any year, a portion of the return of chinook, coho, or chum
salmon is identified as resulting from Nisg̱a'a enhancement initiatives
in the Nass Area, as described in subparagraph 1 (c) of this Schedule,
the Nisg̱a'a fish allocations of these fish are as set out in paragraph
35 of the Fisheries Chapter.






Species


Sockeye


Pink


Chinook


Coho


Chum



1.

Nisg̱a'a share (%) of return to Canada

10.5%
0.6%
21.0%
8.0%
8.0%


2.

Return to Canada

Small

Large



160,000

600,000



300,000

1,100,000



13, 000

60,000



40,000

240,000



30,000

150,000



3.

Nisg̱a'a fish allocations at small and large returns to Canada

Threshold (at small return to Canada)

Maximum (at large return to Canada)



16,800

63,000



1,800

6,600



2,730

12,600



3,200

19,200



2,400

12,000






SCHEDULE B — OVERAGES AND UNDERAGES


Determination of Overages and Underages


1.
For the purpose of catch accounting, harvests for each salmon species
are classified into two groups of fisheries:

a. Nisg̱a'a fisheries; and

b. other Canadian fisheries harvesting Nass salmon.


2.
To determine the overage or underage for a Nass salmon species in
Nisg̱a'a fisheries, the following post-season estimates are required for
each species of salmon:


a. the total return to Canada (the "TRTC") for that species of Nass
salmon;


b. the total escapement to Nass Area streams (the "Post-Season
Escapement Estimate");


c. the harvest share for Nisg̱a'a fisheries (the "Nisg̱a'a Share") for
that year determined in accordance with the Nisg̱a'a fish allocations set
out in the Fisheries Chapter and the Harvest Agreement using the
post-season estimate of the TRTC and the escapement goal for that year,
including any adjustments to the Nisg̱a'a Share for overages and
underages;


d. the harvest allowed for other Canadian fisheries (the "Remaining
Allowable Catch") based on the post-season estimate of TRTC, the
escapement goal and the Nisg̱a'a Share for that year;


e. the total number of fish of that species caught in Nisg̱a'a fisheries
(the "Nisg̱a'a Catch");


f. the total number of Nass salmon of that species caught in other
Canadian fisheries (the "Other Catch"); and


g. the total catch for a year (the "Total Catch") determined by adding
the Nisg̱a'a Catch to the Other Catch.


3.
In each year, the Nisg̱a'a Account will be calculated for each species,
as set out below, to determine if an overage or underage has occurred
for that species. If the Nisg̱a'a Account is a number greater than zero,
then there is an overage. If the Nisg̱a'a Account is a number less than
zero, then there is an underage.


4.
The Nisg̱a'a Account for salmon in each year will be calculated as
follows:


a. if the Post-Season Escapement Estimate is greater than or equal to
the escapement goal and the Minister has provided reasonable
opportunities for the harvest of the Nisg̱a'a fish allocations and the
Nisg̱a'a Catch is less than the Nisg̱a'a Share, and the Other Catch is
less than or equal to the Remaining Allowable Catch, the Nisg̱a'a Account
is zero;


b. if the Post-Season Escapement Estimate is greater than or equal to
the escapement goal and the Nisg̱a'a Catch is more than the Nisg̱a'a
Share, the Nisg̱a'a Account is:


Nisg̱a'a Account = Nisg̱a'a Catch − Nisg̱a'a Share
;


c. if the Post-Season Escapement Estimate is greater than or equal to
the escapement goal and the other Canadian fisheries harvest more than
their share, the Nisg̱a'a Account is:


Nisg̱a'a Account = Remaining Allowable Catch − Other Catch
;


d. if the Post-Season Escapement Estimate is less than or equal to the
escapement goal and there is a Nisg̱a'a Share and there is no Remaining
Allowable Catch, the Nisg̱a'a Account is:


Nisg̱a'a Account = Nisg̱a'a Catch − Nisg̱a'a Share − Other Catch
;


e. if the Post-Season Escapement Estimate is less than the escapement
goal and there is a Nisg̱a'a Share and there is a Remaining Allowable
Catch, the Nisg̱a'a Account for sockeye salmon is:



Nisg̱a'a Account = Nisg̱a'a Catch − Nisg̱a'a Share − 13% of the
Overharvest

;

and the Nisg̱a'a Account for pink salmon is:


Nisg̱a'a Account = Nisg̱a'a Catch − Nisg̱a'a Share − 15% of the
Overharvest

;


and the Nisg̱a'a Account for each of the other salmon species is:





Nisg̱a'a Account = Nisg̱a'a Catch −


Nisg̱a'a Share • Total Catch









(
Nisg̱a'a Share + Remaining Allowable Catch
)





5.
In each year, the "Cumulative Nisg̱a'a Account" for each species will be
calculated by adding that year's Nisg̱a'a Account for that species, to
the previous year's Cumulative Nisg̱a'a Account for that species as
adjusted under paragraph 6 of this Schedule or paragraph 30 of the
Fisheries Chapter.


Adjustment of the Nisg̱a'a Harvest


6.
The Minister and Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government will endeavour to minimize
any overages or underages in each year and to minimize the accumulation
of overages and underages in successive years, but in any year:


a. unless otherwise agreed by the Minister and Nisg̱a'a Lisims
Government, any adjustments to the Nisg̱a'a harvest in that year for past
overages will not exceed 5% of the total Nisg̱a'a fish allocations of
that species;


b. any adjustments to the Nisg̱a'a harvest in that year for past
underages will only be made if those adjustments:


i. are approved by Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government, and


ii. unless otherwise agreed by the Minister and Nisg̱a'a Lisims
Government, do not exceed 5% of the pre-season estimate of the Remaining
Allowable Catch for that species;


c. the Minister and Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may agree to reduce an
overage for one species by an underage for another species, in
accordance with the system of equivalencies set out in Schedule C, in
order to reduce the overages and underages in the Cumulative Nisg̱a'a
Account; and


d. if an adjustment is made to the Nisg̱a'a harvest under subparagraphs
(a), (b), or (c) or paragraph 30 of the Fisheries Chapter, a
corresponding adjustment will be made to the Cumulative Nisg̱a'a Account.


Joint Fisheries Management Committee Recommendations


7.
The Joint Fisheries Management Committee will recommend to the Minister
and Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government adjustments to the Nisg̱a'a harvest in
Nisg̱a'a fisheries for each year to account for cumulative overages and
cumulative underages in accordance with this Schedule.



SCHEDULE C — SYSTEM OF SALMON EQUIVALENCIES


1.
Equivalencies for conversions among salmon species will be expressed as
sockeye equivalents, where the value of each species is calculated
relative to the value of sockeye salmon. Sockeye equivalents will be
based on average weights and average commercial landed value statistics
for salmon in the Nass Area, unless otherwise agreed by the Minister and
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government.


2.
The sockeye equivalent factor for each salmon species will be calculated
as follows:





SE

Chinook

=


Chinook average weight


•


Chinook average price/weight












Sockeye average weight


Sockeye average price/weight











SE

Coho

=


Coho average weight


•


Coho average price/weight












Sockeye average weight


Sockeye average price/weight











SE

Pink

=


Pink average weight


•


Pink average price/weight












Sockeye average weight


Sockeye average price/weight











SE

Chum

=


Chum average weight


•


Chum average price/weight












Sockeye average weight


Sockeye average price/weight







SCHEDULE D — DETERMINATION OF THE NISG̱A'A FISH ALLOCATION OF STEELHEAD



1.
In this Schedule, the adjusted total allowable catch of summer-run Nass
steelhead is equal to 95% of the total number of the summer-run Nass
steelhead returning to the Nass Area less the annual escapement goal.


2.
The Nisg̱a'a fish allocation of summer-run Nass steelhead under paragraph
46 of the Fisheries Chapter will be equal to:


a. 5% of the total number of summer-run Nass steelhead returning to the
Nass Area; plus

b. 25% of the adjusted total allowable catch

but, in any event, the Nisg̱a'a fish allocation will not exceed 1000
summer-run Nass steelhead.




SCHEDULE E — NISG̱A'A  FISH ALLOCATIONS OF NON-SALMON SPECIES OR
AQUATIC PLANTS



This schedule will set out Nisg̱a'a fish allocations of non-salmon
species or aquatic plants established under this Chapter after the
effective date.




SCHEDULE F — PROVISIONAL SCHEDULE OF LISIMS FISHERIES CONSERVATION
TRUST SETTLEMENT AMOUNTS



1.
The amounts to be settled on the trustees of the Lisims Fisheries
Conservation Trust are:

a. $10 million by Canada; and
b. $3 million by the Nisg̱a'a Nation.

Note 1 to this Schedule will be deleted, and will no longer form part of
this Agreement, when this Schedule is completed in accordance with that
Note and the effective date occurs.


Note 1

The amounts stated in (a) and (b) will be adjusted on the revision date
by multiplying each amount by N and dividing by O where:


N is the first published value of FDDIPI for the latest calendar quarter
for which Statistics Canada has published a FDDIPI before the revision
date;


O is the value of the FDDIPI for the last quarter in the 1995 calendar
year published by Statistics Canada at the same time as the value used
in N; and


FDDIPI is the Final Domestic Demand Implicit Price Index for Canada,
series D15613, published regularly by Statistics Canada in Matrix 6544:
Implicit Price Indexes, Gross Domestic Product.


The revision date will be a date 14 days before the effective date, or
such other date as the Parties may agree. On the revision date, the
amounts in (a) and (b) will be replaced by amounts adjusted in
accordance with this note, the title of this schedule will be changed to
"Schedule F - Lisims Fisheries Conservation Trust Settlement
Amounts".




SCHEDULE G — PROVISIONAL SCHEDULE OF FUNDING UNDER PARAGRAPH 111 OF
THE FISHERIES CHAPTER



1.
Funding under paragraph 111 of the Fisheries Chapter will be as follows:

a. $5.75 million will be paid by Canada; and

b. $5.75 million will be paid by British Columbia.


Note 1 to this Schedule will be deleted, and will no longer form part of
this Agreement, when this Schedule is completed in accordance with that
Note and the effective date occurs.


Note 1

The amounts stated in (a) and (b) will be adjusted on the revision date
by multiplying each amount by N and dividing by O

where:

N is the first published value of FDDIPI for the latest calendar quarter
for which Statistics Canada has published a FDDIPI before the revision
date;


O is the value of the FDDIPI for the last quarter in the 1995 calendar
year published by Statistics Canada at the same time as the value used
in N; and


FDDIPI is the Final Domestic Demand Implicit Price Index for Canada,
series D15613, published regularly by Statistics Canada in Matrix 6544:
Implicit Price Indexes, Gross Domestic Product.


The revision date will be a date 14 days before the effective date, or
such other date as the Parties may agree. On the revision date, the
amounts in (a) and (b) will be replaced by amounts adjusted in
accordance with this note, the title of this schedule will be changed to
"Schedule G – Funding under paragraph 111 of the Fisheries
Chapter".




CHAPTER 9


WILDLIFE AND MIGRATORY BIRDS



GENERAL


Nisg̱a'a Wildlife Entitlements


1.
Nisg̱a'a citizens have the right to harvest wildlife throughout the Nass
Wildlife Area in accordance with this Agreement subject to:


a. measures that are necessary for conservation; and


b. legislation enacted for the purposes of public health or public
safety.


2.
The entitlement set out in paragraph 1 is a right to harvest in a manner
that:

a. is consistent with:

i. the communal nature of the Nisg̱a'a harvest for domestic purposes, and


ii. the traditional seasons of the Nisg̱a'a harvest; and


b. does not interfere with other authorized uses of Crown land.


3.
Notwithstanding paragraphs 1 and 2, the Crown may authorize uses of or
dispose of Crown land, and any authorized use or disposition may affect
the methods, times, and locations of harvesting wildlife under Nisg̱a'a
wildlife entitlements, provided that the Crown ensures that those
authorized uses or dispositions do not:


a. deny Nisg̱a'a citizens the reasonable opportunity to harvest wildlife
under Nisg̱a'a wildlife entitlements; or

b. reduce Nisg̱a'a wildlife allocations.

4.
Subject to paragraph 3, Nisg̱a'a citizens may harvest wildlife under
Nisg̱a'a wildlife entitlements on lands that are owned in fee simple off
of Nisg̱a'a Lands, but that harvesting will be in accordance with laws of
general application in respect of harvesting wildlife on fee simple
lands.


5.
Subject to paragraphs 70, 92, and 93, Nisg̱a'a wildlife entitlements are
for domestic purposes.


6.
Notwithstanding that Nisg̱a'a wildlife entitlements are treaty rights, a
Nisg̱a'a wildlife allocation that is set out as a percentage of the total
allowable harvest has the same priority as the recreational and
commercial harvest of the total allowable harvest of that species.


7.
This Agreement is not intended to alter federal or provincial laws of
general application in respect of property in wildlife or migratory
birds.


8.
Nisg̱a'a wildlife entitlements are held by the Nisg̱a'a Nation.


9.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation may not dispose of Nisg̱a'a wildlife entitlements.


Licences, Fees, Charges, and Royalties


10.
Canada and British Columbia will not require Nisg̱a'a citizens:

a. to have federal or provincial licences; or
b. to pay fees, charges, or royalties

in respect of the harvest of wildlife or migratory birds under Nisg̱a'a
wildlife entitlements. This paragraph does not restrict Canada's ability
to require licences for the use and possession of firearms under federal
laws on the same basis as applies to other aboriginal people of Canada.


11.
From time to time the Nisg̱a'a Nation and British Columbia will negotiate
and attempt to reach agreements concerning the Nisg̱a'a Nation
contributions to any provincial fund dedicated to wildlife conservation
and habitat protection, at a level that is commensurate with and takes
into account:


a. the contributions made by licensed hunters throughout British
Columbia;


b. the application of the provincial fund to the Nass Wildlife Area; and


c. the performance of similar wildlife management activities by Nisg̱a'a
Lisims Government.


Harvesting Under Other Laws and Agreements


12.
This Agreement does not preclude Nisg̱a'a citizens from harvesting
wildlife or migratory birds throughout Canada in accordance with:

a. federal and provincial laws;

b. any agreements that are in accordance with laws of general
application between the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, a Nisg̱a'a
Corporation on the one hand, and other aboriginal people on the other;
or


c. any arrangements between other aboriginal people and Canada or
British Columbia.



NASS WILDLIFE AREA


13.
British Columbia and the Nisg̱a'a Nation may agree to alter the
boundaries of the Nass Wildlife Area from time to time.


14.
Provincial laws in respect of the designation of wildlife management
areas and critical wildlife areas do not apply on Nisg̱a'a Lands.



DESIGNATED SPECIES


Initial Designated Species


15.
On the effective date, the Minister will designate moose, grizzly bear,
and mountain goat as the initial designated species.



Designation of Wildlife Species and Determination of Total Allowable
Harvests



16.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government or British Columbia may request the Wildlife
Committee to recommend whether a wildlife species should be, or continue
to be, a designated species.


17.
The Minister may designate a wildlife species, other than the initial
designated species, only if the Minister determines that, in order to
address a significant risk to a wildlife population, there should be a
total allowable harvest of that wildlife species.


18.
The Minister may determine that a wildlife species is no longer a
designated species only if the Minister determines that the significant
risk to the wildlife population no longer exists.


19.
The Minister will request and consider recommendations from the Wildlife
Committee before determining whether a species will be, or continue to
be, a designated species.


20.
British Columbia and Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government will provide the Wildlife
Committee with the information that is reasonably available and
necessary to enable the Wildlife Committee to recommend whether a
wildlife species should be, or continue to be, a designated species.


Total Allowable Harvests


21.
The Minister will request and consider recommendations from the Wildlife
Committee before determining the total allowable harvest for any
designated species.


22.
In determining the total allowable harvest for a designated species, the
Minister will, in accordance with proper wildlife management, take into
account:


a. the population of the species within the Nass Wildlife Area; and


b. the population of the species within its normal range or area of
movement outside the Nass Wildlife Area.



ENTITLEMENTS AND ALLOCATIONS


Nisg̱a'a Wildlife Entitlements


23.
Before:


a. a wildlife species is designated in accordance with this Agreement;


b. a Nisg̱a'a wildlife allocation of that wildlife species is
established; and


c. a total allowable harvest of that wildlife species is determined,


subject to paragraph 70, Nisg̱a'a citizens have the right to harvest that
wildlife species for domestic purposes.


Nisg̱a'a Wildlife Allocations


24.
If:


a. a wildlife species is designated in accordance with this Agreement;


b. a Nisg̱a'a wildlife allocation of that wildlife species is
established; and


c. a total allowable harvest of that wildlife species is determined


Nisg̱a'a citizens have the right to harvest that designated species, in
accordance with that Nisg̱a'a wildlife allocation.


25.
The Nisg̱a'a wildlife allocations of the initial designated species are
set out in Schedule A.


26.
A Nisg̱a'a wildlife allocation that is determined or varied under this
Agreement, and any review provisions agreed to under paragraph 28, will
be added to Schedule A.


27.
Unless British Columbia and the Nisg̱a'a Nation otherwise agree, or it is
otherwise determined by arbitration under paragraph 33, the Nisg̱a'a
wildlife allocation of a species that is designated after the effective
date:


a. will, at or below the estimated harvest level at the time of the
designation of the species, reflect the share of the harvest that was
harvested by the Nisg̱a'a Nation before the designation;


b. will provide for an increasing share of the total allowable harvest
by persons other than Nisg̱a'a citizens as the total allowable harvest
increases above the level at which the species was designated; and


c. may provide for a maximum amount for the Nisg̱a'a harvest.


28.
If the Minister designates a species after the effective date, British
Columbia and the Nisg̱a'a Nation will negotiate and attempt to reach
agreement on a Nisg̱a'a wildlife allocation of that designated species,
and they may also agree to provisions to review that Nisg̱a'a wildlife
allocation.


29.
Any determination or variation of a Nisg̱a'a wildlife allocation,
including a determination or variation by an arbitrator under paragraph
33, will take into account all relevant information presented by British
Columbia and the Nisg̱a'a Nation and in particular information presented
in respect of:

a. the status of the species;
b. conservation requirements;

c. current and past Nisg̱a'a harvest for domestic purposes;

d. change in Nisg̱a'a harvesting effort; and

e. the effect on the species of harvesting by others.



Review of Nisg̱a'a Wildlife Allocations of Initial Designated Species



30.
Within 15 years of the effective date, British Columbia and the Nisg̱a'a
Nation will review the Nisg̱a'a wildlife allocation of an initial
designated species:


a. once at the request of either British Columbia or the Nisg̱a'a Nation
at any time after five years from the effective date; and


b. if there has been a review under subparagraph (a):

i. once at the request of British Columbia, and
ii. once at the request of the Nisg̱a'a Nation

at any time after five years from the date the review under subparagraph
(a) was requested.


31.
British Columbia and the Nisg̱a'a Nation may agree to vary the Nisg̱a'a
wildlife allocation of an initial designated species after any review
under paragraph 30.


32.
Notwithstanding paragraphs 30 and 31, British Columbia and the Nisg̱a'a
Nation may agree to review and vary the Nisg̱a'a wildlife allocation of
an initial designated species at any time.


Arbitration


33.
If British Columbia and the Nisg̱a'a Nation fail to agree on:


a. the Nisg̱a'a wildlife allocation of an initial designated species
following a review under paragraph 30; or


b. the Nisg̱a'a wildlife allocation of any other designated species under
paragraphs 27 to 29


the allocation will be finally determined by arbitration under the
Dispute Resolution Chapter.


34.
The Party requesting a review of the Nisg̱a'a wildlife allocation of a
designated species has the onus of establishing that the Nisg̱a'a
wildlife allocation should be varied.



WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT


Responsibilities of the Parties


35.
Subject to this Agreement, the Minister is responsible for wildlife.


36.
The Minister will manage all wildlife harvesting within the Nass
Wildlife Area in a manner consistent with any total allowable harvest
and harvest objectives established under this Agreement.


37.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws that are in respect of the
Nisg̱a'a Nation's rights and obligations in respect of wildlife and
migratory birds under, and that are consistent with, this Agreement and
that are not inconsistent with the annual management plans, including
matters such as:


a. the distribution among Nisg̱a'a citizens of Nisg̱a'a wildlife
entitlements;


b. the establishment and administration of licensing requirements for
the harvest of wildlife and migratory birds under the Nisg̱a'a wildlife
entitlements;


c. the methods, timing, and locations of the harvest of species of
wildlife included in the annual management plan, and migratory birds
under the Nisg̱a'a wildlife entitlements;


d. the methods, timing, and locations of the harvest of species of
wildlife not included in the annual management plan;


e. the designation and documentation of persons who harvest wildlife and
migratory birds under the Nisg̱a'a wildlife entitlements;


f. the trade or barter of wildlife and migratory birds harvested by
Nisg̱a'a citizens under the Nisg̱a'a wildlife entitlements; and

g. other matters agreed to by the Parties.

38.
In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between a law made under
paragraph 37, other than a law made under subparagraph 37(d), and a
federal or provincial law, the Nisg̱a'a law will prevail to the extent of
the inconsistency or conflict.


39.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws in respect of any sale of
wildlife, migratory birds, or the inedible by-products or down of
migratory birds, that are harvested under this Agreement.


40.
In the event of a conflict between a law made under subparagraph 37 (d)
or paragraph 39 and a federal or provincial law of general application,
the federal or provincial law will prevail to the extent of the
conflict.


41.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government will make laws to require:


a. that any wildlife or wildlife parts, including meat, harvested under
this Agreement, that are transported outside Nisg̱a'a Lands for the
purpose of trade or barter be identified as wildlife for trade or
barter; and


b. Nisg̱a'a citizens to comply with the annual management plan.


42.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may develop and carry out training programs
for hunters in relation to conservation and safety, that are comparable
to training programs that are carried out under provincial laws of
general application, and successful completion of these programs will be
deemed to satisfy any training requirements in relation to conservation
and safety under those provincial laws.


43.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may develop and carry out training programs
for hunters in relation to conservation and safety, that are comparable
to training programs that are carried out under federal laws.


44.
The person authorized under federal or provincial legislation to
designate persons to administer tests in respect of firearms use or
safety, will designate any person nominated by Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government
for the purpose of carrying out the responsibilities of administering
federal and provincial tests in respect of firearms use or safety, if
the person nominated by Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government has the firearms
licence and the firearms use or safety testing qualifications:


a. generally required of all persons who administer those tests in
British Columbia; or


b. required of aboriginal persons who administer those tests in British
Columbia, if specific qualifications have been established for
aboriginal persons to administer those tests.


Wildlife Committee


45.
On the effective date, the Parties will establish a Wildlife Committee
to facilitate wildlife management within the Nass Wildlife Area. For
this purpose, the Wildlife Committee will carry out the responsibilities
assigned to it under this Agreement, including:


a. recommending to the Minister and Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government any
conservation requirements it considers advisable for wildlife species
within the Nass Wildlife Area;


b. recommending to the Minister and Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government whether
any wildlife species should be, or continue to be, a designated species;


c. recommending to the Minister and Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government each year
the total allowable harvest levels for designated species, including the
objectives for:


i. the geographic distribution of the harvest within the Nass Wildlife
Area,

ii. the sex and age composition of the harvest,

iii. monitoring, reporting, and auditing requirements, and

iv. other similar matters;

d. recommending to the Minister and Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government whether
there should be an annual management plan for any wildlife species other
than designated species;


e. recommending to the Minister and Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government annual
management plans, that are consistent with this Agreement and proper
wildlife management, for the Nisg̱a'a harvest of designated species and
any other wildlife species for which the Minister and Nisg̱a'a Lisims
Government have agreed that there should be an annual management plan;


f. advising the Minister and Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government in respect of the
design of any studies necessary to carry out the terms of this Chapter
or to facilitate proper wildlife management within the Nass Wildlife
Area;


g. advising the Minister and Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government in respect of
amendments to laws that apply to the management of wildlife and wildlife
harvests within the Nass Wildlife Area;


h. advising the Minister and Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government on wildlife
management policies, projects, plans, and programs, that significantly
affect the Nass Wildlife Area and its wildlife populations;


i. developing long-term wildlife management plans it considers necessary
for carrying out its responsibilities;


j. facilitating sharing of information and plans for existing and
proposed wildlife harvesting that could affect or be affected by Nisg̱a'a
wildlife harvesting;


k. communicating with other management or advisory bodies about matters
of mutual interest; and


l. carrying out other activities agreed to by the Nisg̱a'a Nation and
British Columbia or Canada, as the case may be.


46.
The Wildlife Committee has up to nine members. The Nisg̱a'a Nation and
British Columbia will each appoint an equal number of members, to a
maximum of four each, and Canada will appoint one member, to represent
them on the Wildlife Committee. The members of the Wildlife Committee
representing the Nisg̱a'a Nation, Canada and British Columbia are
responsible for functions in respect of wildlife fish. The members of
the Wildlife Committee representing the Nisg̱a'a Nation and British
Columbia are responsible for functions in respect of all other wildlife.


47.
The Wildlife Committee will meet as often as necessary to carry out its
responsibilities and will establish its procedures.


48.
Whenever possible, the Wildlife Committee will carry out its
responsibilities by consensus. If there is no consensus, the Wildlife
Committee will submit the recommendations or advice of each Party's
representatives.


49.
If it is impracticable for the Wildlife Committee to address an issue,
each Party's representatives may submit the recommendations or advice.


50.
British Columbia or Canada, as the case may be, will consult with the
Nisg̱a'a Nation before enacting regulations or adopting policies that
will significantly affect wildlife management or harvesting within the
Nass Wildlife Area. Unless the Nisg̱a'a Nation and British Columbia or
Canada, as the case may be, otherwise agree, this consultation will take
place through the Wildlife Committee.


51.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government and the Minister will provide the Wildlife
Committee with all relevant data in their possession in respect of all
wildlife harvesting and other matters relevant to wildlife management
within the Nass Wildlife Area.


Other Wildlife Management Bodies


52.
The Parties acknowledge that wildlife management may involve the
consideration of matters on a regional or watershed basis.


53.
If Canada or British Columbia proposes to establish a wildlife or
migratory birds management advisory body:


a. for an area that includes any portion of the Nass Wildlife Area; or


b. in respect of wildlife or migratory bird populations whose normal
range of movement includes any portion of the Nass Wildlife Area


Canada or British Columbia, as the case may be, will consult with the
Nisg̱a'a Nation in developing that body.


54.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation is entitled to appropriate representation on any
regional or provincial advisory body established by Canada or British
Columbia to provide advice or recommendations to the Minister in respect
of:


a. matters pertaining to wildlife or migratory birds in an area that
includes any portion of the Nass Wildlife Area; or


b. wildlife or migratory bird populations whose normal range of movement
includes any portion of the Nass Wildlife Area.


Annual Management Plans


55.
An annual management plan will set out the management provisions in
respect of the Nisg̱a'a harvest under this Agreement of designated
species and other species that the Nisg̱a'a Nation and British Columbia
or Canada, as the case may be, have agreed should be included in the
annual management plan. The plan will include, as appropriate,
provisions consistent with this Agreement in respect of:

a. the identification of Nisg̱a'a harvesters;

b. the methods, timing, and locations of the harvest;


c. the sex and age composition of the harvest of designated species and
other species as agreed;


d. monitoring of the harvest and data collection;


e. possession and transportation of wildlife or wildlife parts;


f. the level of harvest of any designated and any other species that may
be harvested on Nisg̱a'a Public Lands by persons other than Nisg̱a'a
citizens, in accordance with the Access Chapter;

g. angling guiding under paragraph 83; and

h. other matters in respect of wildlife that the Nisg̱a'a Nation and
British Columbia or Canada, as the case may be, agree to include in the
annual management plan.


56.
Each year Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government will propose an annual management
plan, for designated species and any other species that the Nisg̱a'a
Nation and British Columbia or Canada, as the case may be, have agreed
to include in the annual management plan, that will:


a. be consistent with Nisg̱a'a wildlife entitlements to wildlife;


b. set out any Nisg̱a'a preferences for methods, timing, and locations of
harvest; and


c. take into account any management concerns identified by the Minister
or Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government.


57.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government will forward the proposed annual management
plans to the Wildlife Committee on a timely basis.


58.
The Wildlife Committee, on a timely basis, will:


a. consider the proposed annual management plans, taking into account
the matters set out in paragraph 59;


b. make any appropriate adjustments that are necessary to integrate the
Nisg̱a'a annual management plans with other wildlife conservation and
harvesting plans, while giving effect to the Nisg̱a'a preferences in
respect of methods, timing, and locations of harvest, to the extent
possible; and


c. make recommendations in respect of the proposed annual management
plans to the Minister and Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government.


Review of Recommendations


59.
In considering the recommendations of the Wildlife Committee or its
members, the Minister will take into account:


a. conservation requirements and availability of wildlife resources;


b. any Nisg̱a'a preferences in respect of harvest locations, methods, or
times stated in the recommendations;


c. utilization of the wildlife resources for the benefit of all
Canadians;


d. efficient and effective management of wildlife resources;


e. requirements for the integration and efficient management of the
overall wildlife resources;


f. accepted scientific procedures for wildlife management; and

g. other relevant statutory considerations.

60.
The Minister will not delegate the authority to reject recommendations
of the Wildlife Committee, or its members, in whole or in part, below
the Assistant Deputy Minister level.


61.
If special circumstances make it impracticable to receive
recommendations or advice from the Wildlife Committee, the Minister:


a. may make the decision or take the action that the Minister considers
necessary, without receiving recommendations or advice from the Wildlife
Committee;


b. will advise Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government and the Wildlife Committee as
soon as practicable of that decision or action; and


c. will provide Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government and the Wildlife Committee
with written reasons for that decision or action if the matter is one
about which the Wildlife Committee is required to make a recommendation.


62.
If an annual management plan, or any amendment to an annual management
plan, recommended by the Wildlife Committee or its members is consistent
with this Agreement, the Minister will approve the annual management
plan or the amendment.


63.
If the Minister receives, from the Wildlife Committee, more than one
recommendation that is consistent with this Agreement, in respect of an
annual management plan, or any amendment to an annual management plan,
the Minister will approve the recommendation that, in the Minister's
opinion, best takes into account the matters set out in paragraph 59.


64.
If the Minister does not approve an annual management plan, or any
amendment to an annual management plan, recommended by the Wildlife
Committee or its members, the Minister will provide written reasons and
specify what changes are necessary for its approval.


65.
The Minister, on a timely basis and in a manner consistent with this
Agreement, will:


a. approve or reject, in whole or in part, all recommendations, other
than recommendations in respect of an annual management plan, made by
the Wildlife Committee or its members; and


b. provide written reasons for rejecting any recommendations.


66.
Notwithstanding paragraph 62, the Minister will not approve any method
of harvest that differs from those permitted under federal or provincial
laws of general application unless the Minister is satisfied that the
method is consistent with public safety.


Federal and Provincial Laws of General Application


67.
In order to:


a. avoid duplication of requirements between an annual management plan
and federal and provincial laws of general application; and


b. otherwise facilitate the management of Nisg̱a'a wildlife harvesting


if there is an inconsistency between an annual management plan and a
federal or provincial law of general application, the annual management
plan prevails to the extent of the inconsistency.



TRADE, BARTER, AND SALE OF WILDLIFE


68.
Nisg̱a'a citizens have the right to trade or barter among themselves, or
with other aboriginal people, any wildlife or wildlife parts harvested
under this Agreement.


69.
Notwithstanding paragraphs 37, 38, and 68, any export of wildlife or
wildlife parts from British Columbia or Canada will be in accordance
with federal and provincial laws of general application.


70.
Any sale of wildlife or wildlife parts, including meat, harvested under
this Agreement will be in accordance with federal and provincial laws of
general application, and with any Nisg̱a'a law in respect of sale of
wildlife.



TRAPPING


71.
On the effective date, the traplines wholly or partially on Nisg̱a'a
Lands that are, on the effective date, not registered to any person, and
are listed in Schedule B, are registered to the Nisg̱a'a Nation.


72.
If the holder of a trapline within the Nass Wildlife Area agrees to
transfer the trapline to the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Institution, or a
Nisg̱a'a Corporation, British Columbia will consent to the transfer.


73.
If a trapline that is wholly or partially on Nisg̱a'a Lands becomes
vacant by reason of abandonment or by operation of law, British Columbia
will register the trapline to the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Institution,
or a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, as designated by Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government.


74.
Nisg̱a'a citizens who hold traplines that are wholly outside Nisg̱a'a
Lands continue to hold those traplines in accordance with federal and
provincial laws of general application. Those traplines are set out in
Schedule C.


75.
British Columbia will not register any new traplines within Nisg̱a'a
Lands without the consent of the Nisg̱a'a Nation.


76.
British Columbia will consult with the Nisg̱a'a Nation before approving
any proposed transfer of, or change in terms and conditions of, an
existing trapline that is wholly or partially within Nisg̱a'a Lands.


77.
British Columbia and the Nisg̱a'a Nation will negotiate and attempt to
reach agreement in respect of Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government authority for
the management of some or all of traplines that are registered to the
Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, a Nisg̱a'a Institution, a Nisg̱a'a
Corporation, or Nisg̱a'a citizens, in the Nass Wildlife Area.


78.
Subject to paragraph 79, trapping on Nisg̱a'a Lands is regulated in the
same manner as trapping is regulated on fee simple land in British
Columbia.


79.
Trapping on traplines that are held by an individual and are on Nisg̱a'a
Lands, is regulated in the same manner as trapping on Crown land in
British Columbia, but construction of cabins or other structures
associated with traplines is subject to Nisg̱a'a laws.


80.
For greater certainty, in accordance with paragraph 13 of the General
Provisions Chapter, federal and provincial laws of general application
apply to the sale of furs.



GUIDING


81.
If a guide outfitter's certificate registered to a person other than the
Nisg̱a'a Nation ceases to apply to an area wholly or partially on Nisg̱a'a
Lands by reason of abandonment or operation of law, British Columbia
will issue to the Nisg̱a'a Nation a guide outfitter's licence and a guide
outfitter's certificate for the area set out in Appendix K. This licence
and certificate will be subject to federal and provincial laws of
general application.


82.
British Columbia will not issue a new guide outfitter's certificate or
licence that applies to any portion of Nisg̱a'a Lands without the consent
of the Nisg̱a'a Nation. British Columbia will consult with the Nisg̱a'a
Nation before approving any proposed transfer, or change in terms and
conditions, of any guide outfitter's certificate or licence that applies
to any portion of the Nass Wildlife Area.


83.
On the effective date, British Columbia will issue an angling guide
licence to the Nisg̱a'a Nation, for the watercourses outside of Nisg̱a'a
Lands that are identified in Schedule D.


84.
British Columbia will not:


a. issue any new angling guide licences that apply to watercourses
within Nisg̱a'a Lands; or


b. include any watercourses within Nisg̱a'a Lands in the angling guide
licences set out in Appendix C-7, other than those watercourses that are
listed in those angling guide licences on the effective date

without the consent of the Nisg̱a'a Nation.

85.
British Columbia will consult with the Nisg̱a'a Nation before approving
any proposed transfer, or change in terms and conditions, of an existing
angling guide licence that applies to watercourses within Nisg̱a'a Lands.


86.
The annual management plan will include provisions in respect of Nisg̱a'a
guiding of anglers within Nisg̱a'a Lands that are comparable to those
provisions applicable outside of Nisg̱a'a Lands in respect of matters
such as training, insurance, and reporting.



MIGRATORY BIRDS


Nisg̱a'a Wildlife Entitlement


87.
Nisg̱a'a citizens have the right to harvest migratory birds within the
Nass Area throughout the year for domestic purposes, in accordance with
this Agreement, subject to:


a. measures that are necessary for conservation; and


b. legislation enacted for the purposes of public health or public
safety.


88.
The entitlement set out in paragraph 87 is a right to harvest in a
manner that:


a. is consistent with the communal nature of the Nisg̱a'a harvest for
domestic purposes, and


b. does not interfere with other authorized uses of Crown land.


89.
Notwithstanding paragraphs 87 and 88, the Crown may authorize uses of or
dispose of Crown land, and any authorized use or disposition may affect
the methods, times, and locations of harvesting migratory birds under
Nisg̱a'a wildlife entitlements, provided that the Crown ensures that
those authorized uses or dispositions do not deny Nisg̱a'a citizens the
reasonable opportunity to harvest migratory birds under Nisg̱a'a wildlife
entitlements.


Trade, Barter, and Sale


90.
Nisg̱a'a citizens have the right to trade or barter among themselves, or
with other aboriginal people, any migratory birds harvested under this
Agreement.


91.
Notwithstanding paragraphs 37, 38, and 90:


a. any export of migratory birds from British Columbia or Canada; and


b. the identification of migratory birds that are transported outside
Nisg̱a'a Lands for trade and barter


will be in accordance with federal and provincial laws of general
application.


92.
Any sale of migratory birds will be in accordance with federal and
provincial laws of general application and with any Nisg̱a'a law in
respect of sale of migratory birds harvested under this Agreement.


93.
Nisg̱a'a citizens have the right to sell inedible by-products, including
down, of migratory birds harvested under this Agreement.


94.
Any collection and sale of down of migratory birds other than down of
migratory birds harvested under this Agreement will be in accordance
with federal and provincial laws.


Management


95.
Canada will consult with the Nisg̱a'a Nation in respect of the management
of the harvest by aboriginal people of migratory birds within the Nass
Area.


96.
Canada will consult with the Nisg̱a'a Nation in respect of the
formulation of Canada's positions relating to international agreements
that may significantly affect migratory birds or their habitat within
the Nass Area.



OTHER


97.
The Parties may negotiate agreements for purposes of managing habitat
critical for conservation of migratory birds or endangered species.


98.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation may negotiate agreements with Canada or British
Columbia concerning enforcement of federal, provincial, or Nisg̱a'a laws
in respect of wildlife and migratory birds.


99.
Nisg̱a'a laws enacted in accordance with this Chapter may be enforced by
persons authorized to enforce federal, provincial, or Nisg̱a'a laws in
respect of wildlife or migratory birds in British Columbia.




SCHEDULE A — NISG̱A'A WILDLIFE ALLOCATIONS OF DESIGNATED SPECIES



General


1.
If the calculation of a Nisg̱a'a wildlife allocation results in a
fractional number, the Nisg̱a'a allocation will be:


a. the next higher whole number, if the number is 0.5 or greater; and


b. the next lower whole number, if the number is less than 0.5.


Moose


2.
The Nisg̱a'a wildlife allocation of moose from the total allowable
harvest is:

a. 80% of the first 50 moose; plus
b. 32% of the next 50 moose; plus

c. 56% of all remaining moose, to a maximum of 170 moose.


Mountain Goats


3.
The Nisg̱a'a wildlife allocation of mountain goats is 25% of the total
allowable harvest.


Grizzly Bears


4.
The Nisg̱a'a wildlife allocation of grizzly bears is:


a. if the total allowable harvest is six or fewer grizzly bears, 40% of
the total allowable harvest;


b. if the total allowable harvest is seven or eight grizzly bears, 50%
of the total allowable harvest;


c. if the total allowable harvest is nine or ten grizzly bears, 40% of
the total allowable harvest; or


d. if the total allowable harvest is greater than 10 grizzly bears, 40%
of the first 10 grizzly bears, plus 30% of the remainder of the total
allowable harvest.




SCHEDULE B — UNREGISTERED TRAPLINES WHOLLY OR PARTIALLY ON NISG̱A'A
LANDS ON THE EFFECTIVE DATE



Trapline Number

616 T 014



SCHEDULE C — TRAPLINES WHOLLY OUTSIDE NISG̱A'A LANDS HELD BY NISG̱A'A
CITIZENS





614T 010
614T 079
614T 112


614T 016
614T 083
615T 018


614T 017
614T 084
615T 026


614T 018
614T 085
615T 030


614T 048
614T 086
616T 006


614T 078
614T 087
616T 007


614T 090
614T 093
614T 096


614T 092
614T 094
614T 097



614T 099






SCHEDULE D — STREAMS IN NISG̱A'A ANGLING GUIDE LICENCE


Nass River Watershed

Bell-Irving River
Bowser River
Burton Creek
Cranberry River
Kinskuch River
Kiteen River
Kwinageese River
Meziadin River
Nass River
Oweegee Lake
Welda Creek
Tchitin River

Portland Canal

Bear River

Observatory Inlet

Illiance River
Kitsault River



CHAPTER 10


ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT AND PROTECTION



ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT


1.
At the request of any Party, the Parties will negotiate and attempt to
reach agreements:


a. to coordinate any Nisg̱a'a, federal, and provincial environmental
assessment requirements that will meet the Parties' legal requirements
concerning environmental assessments; and


b. to avoid duplication of environmental assessment requirements.


2.
Agreements under paragraph 1 may be between the Nisg̱a'a Nation and one
or both of the other Parties, and may cover the environmental assessment
of one or more projects, including an assessment referred to in
paragraph 4.


3.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws in respect of the environmental
assessment of projects on Nisg̱a'a Lands. In the event of a conflict
between a Nisg̱a'a law under this paragraph and a federal or provincial
law of general application, the federal or provincial law will prevail
to the extent of the conflict.


4.
A project on Nisg̱a'a Lands that requires an environmental assessment
under Nisg̱a'a law and the law of another Party will be assessed only
under the process prescribed by Nisg̱a'a law if the Nisg̱a'a Nation and
the other Party agree under paragraph 1 that the Nisg̱a'a environmental
assessment will provide the information that the other Party requires to
make its decisions concerning the project. In the absence of an
agreement, the Parties may carry out concurrent environmental
assessments.


5.
If a proposed project on Nisg̱a'a Lands may reasonably be expected to
have adverse environmental effects, the Nisg̱a'a Nation will ensure that
Canada and British Columbia:


a. receive timely notice of, and relevant available information on, the
project and the potential adverse environmental effects;


b. are consulted regarding the environmental effects of the project if
there may be adverse environmental effects off Nisg̱a'a Lands, or on
federal or provincial interests referred to in this Agreement; and


c. receive an opportunity to participate in any environmental assessment
under Nisg̱a'a laws related to those effects, in accordance with those
laws, if there may be significant adverse environmental effects off
Nisg̱a'a Lands, or on federal or provincial interests referred to in this
Agreement.


6.
If a proposed project that will be located off Nisg̱a'a Lands may
reasonably be expected to have adverse environmental effects on
residents of Nisg̱a'a Lands, Nisg̱a'a Lands or Nisg̱a'a interests set out
in this Agreement, Canada or British Columbia, or both, as the case may
be, will ensure that the Nisg̱a'a Nation:


a. receives timely notice of, and relevant available information on, the
project and the potential adverse environmental effects;


b. is consulted regarding the environmental effects of the project; and


c. receives an opportunity to participate in any environmental
assessment under federal or provincial laws related to those effects, in
accordance with those laws, if there may be significant adverse
environmental effects.


7.
If Canada or British Columbia establishes a board, panel, or tribunal to
provide advice or make recommendations with respect to the environmental
effects of a project on Nisg̱a'a Lands or a project off Nisg̱a'a Lands
that may reasonably be expected to have adverse environmental effects on
residents of Nisg̱a'a Lands, Nisg̱a'a Lands, or Nisg̱a'a interests set out
in this Agreement, the Nisg̱a'a Nation will:


a. have standing before the board, panel, or tribunal; and


b. be entitled to nominate a member of the assessment board, panel, or
tribunal, unless the board, panel, or tribunal is a decision-making
body, such as the National Energy Board.


8.
All environmental assessment processes referred to in this Agreement
will, in addition to the requirements of applicable environmental
assessment legislation:


a. coordinate to the extent possible the environmental assessment
requirements placed by the Parties upon a project proponent;


b. require the project proponent to provide information or studies, as
appropriate, about the project and its potential environmental effects
and the measures that can be taken to prevent or mitigate those effects;


c. ensure that all information relevant to the assessment of the project
is available to the public, other than information that is required to
be kept confidential under applicable law;


d. provide for public participation in the assessment process, including
public notice of the project, an opportunity to make submissions, and,
when deemed appropriate by the Party conducting the assessment, public
hearings conducted by an independent review panel;


e. assess whether the project can reasonably be expected to have adverse
environmental effects on residents of Nisg̱a'a Lands, Nisg̱a'a Lands, or
Nisg̱a'a interests set out in this Agreement and, where appropriate, make
recommendations to prevent or mitigate those effects;


f. assess the effects of the project on the existing and future
economic, social and cultural well-being of Nisg̱a'a citizens who may be
affected by the project;


g. set out time periods within which the assessor must make its
recommendation in respect of whether or not the project should proceed;


h. provide for recommendations, based on the assessment, to the Party or
Parties with decision-making authority over the project, in respect of
whether the project should proceed;


i. take into account any agreements between the project proponent and
the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village concerning the effects of the
project; and


j. be conducted and completed by a Party before that Party issues final
approval.


9.
Decisions by any Party regarding the issuance of a permit or approval
for a project will take into account the recommendations of the
environmental assessment.


10.
In exercising decision-making authority for projects that may have
adverse environmental effects on residents of Nisg̱a'a Lands, Nisg̱a'a
Lands, or Nisg̱a'a interests set out in this Agreement, the decision
maker will take into account, but will not be bound by, any agreements
between the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village and the project
proponent concerning the project.



ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION


11.
Except as otherwise set out in this Agreement, Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government
may make laws in respect of environmental protection on Nisg̱a'a Lands,
including discharges into streams within Nisg̱a'a Lands. In the event of
a conflict between a Nisg̱a'a law under this paragraph and a federal or
provincial law, the federal or provincial law will prevail to the extent
of the conflict.


12.
Any Party may respond to an environmental emergency or natural disaster
if the Party with primary responsibility for responding has not
responded, or is unable to respond, in a timely manner.


13.
If there is an environmental emergency or natural disaster, the Party
responding will, if possible, notify the Party with primary
responsibility in advance of taking action, but, in any case, will
notify that Party as soon as practicable after responding.


14.
Canada and the Nisg̱a'a Nation may enter into agreements concerning the
performance of specified federal environmental protection functions by
Nisg̱a'a Institutions.


15.
British Columbia and the Nisg̱a'a Nation will negotiate and attempt to
reach agreements concerning the performance of specified provincial
environmental protection functions by Nisg̱a'a Institutions within an
area to be defined in those agreements.


16.
Any agreements entered into under paragraph 15 will be in accordance
with the technical and administrative capacity and resources of Nisg̱a'a
Institutions to carry out the functions in accordance with relevant
provincial standards.


17.
Each Party will enforce its environmental laws in the Nass Area in a
fair, impartial and effective manner, through appropriate governmental
action, consistent with the exercise of prosecutorial discretion.


18.
No Party should relax its environmental standards in the Nass Area for
the purpose of providing an encouragement to the establishment,
acquisition, expansion, or retention of an investment.


19.
This Agreement does not preclude a Party, within the scope of its
jurisdiction, from establishing environmental standards that take into
account the specific environmental conditions of a region, location, or
type of project.




CHAPTER 11


NISG̱A'A GOVERNMENT



SELF-GOVERNMENT


1.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation has the right to self-government, and the authority
to make laws, as set out in this Agreement.




RECOGNITION OF NISG̱A'A  LISIMS GOVERNMENT AND NISG̱A'A
VILLAGE GOVERNMENTS



2.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government and Nisg̱a'a Village Governments, as provided
for under the Nisg̱a'a Constitution, are the governments of the Nisg̱a'a
Nation and the Nisg̱a'a Villages, respectively.


3.
Except as may otherwise be agreed to by the relevant Parties in respect
of particular matters, Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government is responsible for
intergovernmental relations between the Nisg̱a'a Nation on the one hand,
and Canada or British Columbia, or both, on the other hand.


4.
The exercise of Nisg̱a'a Government jurisdiction and authority set out in
this Agreement will evolve over time.



LEGAL STATUS AND CAPACITY


5.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation, and each Nisg̱a'a Village, is a separate and distinct
legal entity, with the capacity, rights, powers, and privileges of a
natural person, including to:

a. enter into contracts and agreements;

b. acquire and hold property or an interest in property, and sell or
otherwise dispose of that property or interest;

c. raise, spend, invest, or borrow money;
d. sue and be sued; and

e. do other things ancillary to the exercise of its rights, powers and
privileges.


6.
The rights, powers, and privileges of the Nisg̱a'a Nation, and of each
Nisg̱a'a Village, will be exercised in accordance with:

a. this Agreement;
b. the Nisg̱a'a Constitution; and
c. Nisg̱a'a laws.

7.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation will act through Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government in
exercising its rights, powers, and privileges and in carrying out its
duties, functions, and obligations.


8.
Each Nisg̱a'a Village will act through its Nisg̱a'a Village Government in
exercising its rights, powers, and privileges and in carrying out its
duties, functions, and obligations.



NISG̱A'A CONSTITUTION


9.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation will have a Nisg̱a'a Constitution, consistent with
this Agreement, which will:


a. provide for Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government and Nisg̱a'a Village
Governments, including their duties, composition, and membership;


b. provide that this Agreement sets out the authority of Nisg̱a'a
Government to make laws;


c. assign to Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government and Nisg̱a'a Village Governments
the rights, powers, privileges, and responsibilities under this
Agreement that are not specifically assigned to Nisg̱a'a Lisims
Government;


d. provide for the enactment of laws by Nisg̱a'a Government;


e. provide for challenging the validity of Nisg̱a'a laws;


f. provide for the creation, continuation, amalgamation, dissolution,
naming, or renaming of:

i. Nisg̱a'a Villages on Nisg̱a'a Lands, and
ii. Nisg̱a'a Urban Locals;

g. provide for Nisg̱a'a Urban Locals, or other means by which Nisg̱a'a
citizens residing outside of the Nass Area may participate in Nisg̱a'a
Lisims Government;


h. provide for the establishment of Nisg̱a'a Public Institutions;


i. provide for the role of the Nisg̱a'a elders,
Simgigat
and

Sigidimhaana
k

, in providing guidance and interpretation of the
Ayuuk
to Nisg̱a'a Government;


j. provide that in the event of an inconsistency or conflict between the
Nisg̱a'a Constitution and the provisions of any Nisg̱a'a law, the Nisg̱a'a
law is, to the extent of the inconsistency or conflict, of no force or
effect;


k. require that Nisg̱a'a Government be democratically accountable to
Nisg̱a'a citizens, and, in particular:


i. that elections for Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government and each Nisg̱a'a Village
Government be held at least every five years, and


ii. that, subject to residency, age, and other requirements set out in
the Nisg̱a'a Constitution or Nisg̱a'a law, all Nisg̱a'a citizens are
eligible to vote in Nisg̱a'a elections and to hold office in Nisg̱a'a
Government;


l. require a system of financial administration comparable to standards
generally accepted for governments in Canada, through which Nisg̱a'a
Lisims Government will be financially accountable to Nisg̱a'a citizens,
and Nisg̱a'a Village Governments will be financially accountable to
Nisg̱a'a citizens of those Nisg̱a'a Villages;


m. require conflict of interest rules that are comparable to standards
generally accepted for governments in Canada;


n. provide conditions under which the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a
Village may:


i. dispose of the whole of its estate or interest in any parcel of
Nisg̱a'a Lands or Nisg̱a'a Fee Simple Lands, and


ii. from the whole of its estate or interest, create or dispose of any
lesser estate or interest in any parcel of Nisg̱a'a Lands or Nisg̱a'a Fee
Simple Lands;


o. recognize and protect rights and freedoms of Nisg̱a'a citizens;


p. provide that every Nisg̱a'a participant who is a Canadian citizen or
permanent resident of Canada is entitled to be a Nisg̱a'a citizen;


q. provide for Nisg̱a'a Government during the period from the effective
date until the date on which the office holders elected in the first
Nisg̱a'a elections take office;


r. provide for amendment of the Nisg̱a'a Constitution; and


s. include other provisions, as determined by the Nisg̱a'a Nation.


10.
The Nisg̱a'a Constitution, as approved in accordance with the
Ratification Chapter, comes into force on the effective date.


11.
The Nisg̱a'a Constitution will initially include an amending procedure
requiring that an amendment be approved by at least 70% of Nisg̱a'a
citizens voting in a referendum.



NISG̱A'A GOVERNMENT STRUCTURE


12.
Each Nisg̱a'a Village Government consists of elected members as set out
in the Nisg̱a'a Constitution.


13.
On the effective date, there are three Nisg̱a'a Urban Locals, as set out
in the Nisg̱a'a Constitution, known as:

a. Greater Vancouver Urban Local;
b. Terrace Urban Local; and
c. Prince Rupert/Port Edward Urban Local.

14.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government consists of the following members, as set out
in the Nisg̱a'a Constitution:


a. at least three officers elected by the Nisg̱a'a Nation in a general
election;


b. the elected members of the Nisg̱a'a Village Governments; and


c. at least one representative elected by the Nisg̱a'a citizens of each
Nisg̱a'a Urban Local.



ELECTIONS


15.
Elections for Nisg̱a'a Government will be held in accordance with the
Nisg̱a'a Constitution and Nisg̱a'a laws.



APPEAL AND REVIEW OF ADMINISTRATIVE DECISIONS


16.
Nisg̱a'a Government will provide appropriate procedures for the appeal or
review of administrative decisions of Nisg̱a'a Public Institutions.


17.
The Supreme Court of British Columbia has jurisdiction in respect of
applications for judicial review of administrative decisions of Nisg̱a'a
Institutions exercising a statutory power of decision under Nisg̱a'a law,
but no application for judicial review of those decisions may be brought
until all procedures for appeal or review provided by Nisg̱a'a Government
and applicable to that decision have been exhausted.



REGISTER OF LAWS


18.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government will:


a. maintain a public registry of Nisg̱a'a laws in the English language
and, at the discretion of Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government, in the Nisg̱a'a
language;


b. provide Canada and British Columbia with a copy of a Nisg̱a'a law as
soon as practicable after that law is enacted; and


c. establish procedures for the coming into force and publication of
Nisg̱a'a laws.




RELATIONS WITH INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE NOT NISG̱A'A CITIZENS



19.
Nisg̱a'a Government will consult with individuals who are ordinarily
resident within Nisg̱a'a Lands and who are not Nisg̱a'a citizens about
Nisg̱a'a Government decisions that directly and significantly affect
them.


20.
Nisg̱a'a Government will provide that individuals who are ordinarily
resident within Nisg̱a'a Lands and who are not Nisg̱a'a citizens may
participate in a Nisg̱a'a Public Institution, if the activities of that
Nisg̱a'a Public Institution directly and significantly affect them.


21.
The means of participation under paragraph 20 will be:


a. a reasonable opportunity to make representations to the Nisg̱a'a
Public Institution in respect of activities that significantly and
directly affect them;


b. if the members of a Nisg̱a'a Public Institution are elected:


i. the ability to vote for or become members of the Nisg̱a'a Public
Institution, or


ii. a guaranteed number of members, with the right to vote, on the
Nisg̱a'a Public Institution; or

c. other comparable measures.

22.
Nisg̱a'a Government will provide that individuals who are ordinarily
resident within Nisg̱a'a Lands and who are not Nisg̱a'a citizens may avail
themselves of the appeal or review procedures referred to in paragraph
16.


23.
Nisg̱a'a Government may appoint individuals who are not Nisg̱a'a citizens
as members of Nisg̱a'a Public Institutions.



TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS


24.
From the effective date until the office holders elected in the first
Nisg̱a'a elections take office:


a. the members and officers of the General Executive Council of the
Nisg̱a'a Tribal Council on the day immediately before the effective date
are the members of Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government, in accordance with the
transition provisions of the Nisg̱a'a Constitution; and


b. the Chief Councillor and councillors of each of the Nisg̱a'a band
councils under the
Indian Act
on the day immediately before the effective date are the elected members
of the respective successor Nisg̱a'a Village Governments.


25.
The first elections for the officers of Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government, the
members of each of the Nisg̱a'a Village Governments, and the Nisg̱a'a
Urban Local representatives to Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government, will be held
no later than six months after the effective date.


26.
The Parties acknowledge that it is desirable that the exercise of
Nisg̱a'a Government authority be introduced in an effective and orderly
manner.


27.
Before Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government first exercises law making authority in
respect of social services, health services, child and family services,
adoption, or pre-school to Grade 12 education, Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government
will give notice to Canada and British Columbia of the intended exercise
of authority.


28.
After Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government has given notice under paragraph 27, at
the request of Canada or British Columbia, Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government
will consult or otherwise discuss with Canada or British Columbia, as
the case may be, in respect of:


a. any transfer of cases and related documentation from federal or
provincial institutions to Nisg̱a'a Institutions, including any
confidentiality and privacy considerations;


b. any transfer of assets from federal or provincial institutions to
Nisg̱a'a Institutions;


c. immunity of Nisg̱a'a Government employees providing services or
exercising authority under Nisg̱a'a laws;


d. any appropriate amendments to federal or provincial laws; and

e. other matters agreed to by the Parties.

29.
The Parties may negotiate agreements regarding any of the matters set
out in paragraph 28, but an agreement under this paragraph is not a
condition precedent to the exercise of law making authority by Nisg̱a'a
Government.


Amendment of Provincial Legislation


30.
British Columbia will consult with Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government before
amending a provincial law if:


a. this Agreement provides for Nisg̱a'a Government law making authority
in respect of the subject matter of the provincial law being amended;


b. Nisg̱a'a Government has made a law in respect of that subject matter;


c. the validity of the Nisg̱a'a law depends upon a comparison with the
provincial law being amended; and


d. the proposed amendment would result in the Nisg̱a'a law ceasing to be
valid.


31.
Consultations under paragraph 30 may include:


a. the nature and purpose of the proposed amendment to the provincial
law;


b. the anticipated date the proposed amendment will take effect;


c. any necessary changes to Nisg̱a'a law as a result of the amendment;
and

d. other matters agreed to by the Parties.


LEGISLATIVE JURISDICTION AND AUTHORITY


General


32.
In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between this Agreement and
the provisions of any Nisg̱a'a law, this Agreement prevails to the extent
of the inconsistency or conflict.


33.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government and Nisg̱a'a Village Governments, respectively,
have the principal authority, as set out in, and in accordance with,
this Agreement, in respect of Nisg̱a'a Government, Nisg̱a'a citizenship,
Nisg̱a'a culture, Nisg̱a'a language, Nisg̱a'a Lands, and Nisg̱a'a assets.


Nisg̱a'a Government


34.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws in respect of the
administration, management and operation of Nisg̱a'a Government
,
including:


a. the establishment of Nisg̱a'a Public Institutions, including their
respective powers, duties, composition, and membership;


b. powers, duties, responsibilities, remuneration, and indemnification
of members, officials, employees, and appointees of Nisg̱a'a
Institutions;


c. the establishment of Nisg̱a'a Corporations, but the registration or
incorporation of the Nisg̱a'a Corporations must be under federal or
provincial laws;


d. the delegation of Nisg̱a'a Government authority, but the authority to
make laws may be delegated only to a Nisg̱a'a Institution;


e. financial administration of the Nisg̱a'a Nation, Nisg̱a'a Villages, and
Nisg̱a'a Institutions; and

f. elections, by-elections, and referenda.

35.
Each Nisg̱a'a Village Government may make laws in respect of the
administration, management, and operation of that Nisg̱a'a Village
Government
,
including:


a. the establishment of Nisg̱a'a Public Institutions of that Nisg̱a'a
Village Government, including their respective powers, duties,
composition, and membership;


b. powers, duties, responsibilities, remuneration, and indemnification
of members, officials, employees, and appointees of Nisg̱a'a Public
Institutions referred to in subparagraph (a); and


c. the delegation of the Nisg̱a'a Village Government's authority, but the
authority to make laws may be delegated only to a Nisg̱a'a Institution.


36.
In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between a Nisg̱a'a law under
paragraphs 34 or 35 and a federal or provincial law, the Nisg̱a'a law
prevails to the extent of the inconsistency or conflict.


37.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws in respect of the creation,
continuation, amalgamation, dissolution, naming, or renaming of:

a. Nisg̱a'a Villages on Nisg̱a'a Lands; and
b. Nisg̱a'a Urban Locals.

38.
In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between a Nisg̱a'a law under
paragraph 37 and a federal or provincial law, the Nisg̱a'a law prevails
to the extent of the inconsistency or conflict.


Nisg̱a'a Citizenship


39.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws in respect of Nisg̱a'a
citizenship. The conferring of Nisg̱a'a citizenship does not:


a. confer or deny rights of entry into Canada, Canadian citizenship, the
right to be registered as an Indian under the
Indian Act
, or any of the rights or benefits under the
Indian Act
; or


b. except as set out in this Agreement or in any federal or provincial
law, impose any obligation on Canada or British Columbia to provide
rights or benefits.


40.
In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between a Nisg̱a'a law under
paragraph 39 and a federal or provincial law, the Nisg̱a'a law prevails
to the extent of the inconsistency or conflict.


Culture and Language


41.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws to preserve, promote, and
develop Nisg̱a'a culture and Nisg̱a'a language, including laws to
authorize or accredit the use, reproduction, and representation of
Nisg̱a'a cultural symbols and practices, and the teaching of Nisg̱a'a
language.


42.
Except as provided for by federal or provincial law, Nisg̱a'a Lisims
Government jurisdiction under paragraph 41 to make laws in respect of
Nisg̱a'a culture and Nisg̱a'a language does not include jurisdiction to
make laws in respect of intellectual property, the official languages of
Canada or the prohibition of activities outside of Nisg̱a'a Lands.


43.
In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between a Nisg̱a'a law under
paragraph 41 and a federal or provincial law, the Nisg̱a'a law prevails
to the extent of the inconsistency or conflict.


Nisg̱a'a Property in Nisg̱a'a Lands


44.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws in respect of:


a. the use and management of Nisg̱a'a Lands owned by the Nisg̱a'a Nation,
a Nisg̱a'a Village, or a Nisg̱a'a Corporation;


b. the possession of Nisg̱a'a Lands owned by the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a
Nisg̱a'a Village, or a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, including the granting of
rights of possession in Nisg̱a'a Lands and any conditions or restrictions
on those rights;


c. the disposition of an estate or interest of the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a
Nisg̱a'a Village or a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, in any parcel of Nisg̱a'a
Lands, including:


i. the disposition of the whole of an estate or interest,


ii. from the whole of its estate or interest, the creation or
disposition of any lesser estate or interest, and


iii. the creation of rights of way and covenants similar to those in
sections 218 and 219 of the
Land Title Act
;


d. the conditions on, and restrictions subject to which, the Nisg̱a'a
Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village or a Nisg̱a'a Corporation may create or dispose
of its estates or interests in any parcel of Nisg̱a'a Lands;


e. the conditions or restrictions, to be established at the time of the
creation or disposition of an estate or interest of the Nisg̱a'a Nation,
a Nisg̱a'a Village or a Nisg̱a'a Corporation in any parcel of Nisg̱a'a
Lands, in respect of that and any subsequent disposition;


f. the reservation or exception of interests, rights, privileges, and
titles from any creation or disposition of an estate or interest of the
Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, or Nisg̱a'a Corporation in Nisg̱a'a
Lands; and


g. other similar matters relating to the property interests of the
Nisg̱a'a Nation, Nisg̱a'a Villages, and Nisg̱a'a Corporations in Nisg̱a'a
Lands.


45.
In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between a Nisg̱a'a law under
paragraph 44 and a federal or provincial law, the Nisg̱a'a law prevails
to the extent of the inconsistency or conflict.


46.
Nisg̱a'a laws under paragraph 44 (c) in respect of estates or interests
that are recognized and permitted by federal or provincial laws of
general application will be consistent with federal and provincial laws
of general application in respect of those estates or interests, other
than the provincial Torrens system and any federal land title or land
registry laws.



Regulation, Administration and Expropriation of Nisg̱a'a Lands



47.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws in respect of:


a. the use, management, planning, zoning, and development of Nisg̱a'a
Lands;


b. regulation, licensing, and prohibition of the operation on Nisg̱a'a
Lands of businesses, professions, and trades, including the imposition
of licence fees or other fees, other than laws in respect of the
accreditation, certification, or professional conduct of professions and
trades; and


c. other similar matters related to the regulation and administration of
Nisg̱a'a Lands.


48.
Each Nisg̱a'a Village Government may make laws in respect of the matters
referred to in paragraph 47, to apply on their respective Nisg̱a'a
Village Lands.


49.
In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between a Nisg̱a'a law under
paragraph 47 or 48 and a federal or provincial law, the Nisg̱a'a law
prevails to the extent of the inconsistency or conflict.


50.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws in respect of:


a. subject to paragraphs 2, 3, and 4 of the Land Title Chapter, the
establishment and operation of a land title or land registry system, in
respect of estates, interests, charges, encumbrances, conditions,
provisos, restrictions, exceptions, and reservations on or in Nisg̱a'a
Lands, including the establishment of a requirement similar to
subsection 20 (1) of the
Land Title Act
;


b. designation of any parcel of Nisg̱a'a Lands as Nisg̱a'a Private Lands
or Nisg̱a'a Village Lands;


c. expropriation by Nisg̱a'a Government for public purposes and public
works, of estates, or interests in Nisg̱a'a Lands other than:


i. interests referred to in paragraphs 30 and 41 of the Lands Chapter to
which Nisg̱a'a Lands are subject on the effective date,


ii. subject to paragraphs 35 and 36 of the Lands Chapter, interests
referred to in paragraphs 33 and 34 of the Lands Chapter to which
Nisg̱a'a Lands are subject on the effective date,


iii. estates or interests expropriated by Canada in accordance with the
Lands Chapter, and


iv. rights of way acquired by British Columbia or a public utility in
accordance with the Roads and Rights of Way Chapter; and


d. other similar matters related to the regulation and administration of
Nisg̱a'a Lands.


51.
In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between a Nisg̱a'a law under
paragraph 50 and a federal or provincial law, the Nisg̱a'a law prevails
to the extent of the inconsistency or conflict.


52.
Notwithstanding paragraphs 45, 49 and 51, in the event of a conflict
between a Nisg̱a'a law and a federal law of general application in
respect of prospecting for, production of, refining, and handling of
uranium or other products capable of releasing atomic energy, the
federal law prevails to the extent of the conflict. Nothing in this
paragraph is intended to require the production of uranium or other
products capable of releasing atomic energy.


Nisg̱a'a Assets


53.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws in respect of:


a. the use, possession, and management of the assets, other than real
property, on Nisg̱a'a Lands of the Nisg̱a'a Nation, Nisg̱a'a Villages, and
Nisg̱a'a Corporations;


b. the imposition of conditions on, and restrictions subject to which,
Nisg̱a'a Government, and Nisg̱a'a Corporations may authorize the
disposition of the assets, other than real property, within Nisg̱a'a
Lands of the Nisg̱a'a Nation, Nisg̱a'a Villages, and Nisg̱a'a Corporations;
and


c. other similar matters relating to the property interests of the
Nisg̱a'a Nation, Nisg̱a'a Villages, and Nisg̱a'a Corporations in their
assets, other than real property, on Nisg̱a'a Lands.


54.
A Nisg̱a'a Village Government may make laws in respect of the matters
referred to in paragraph 53, to apply to its assets, other than real
property, on its Nisg̱a'a Village Lands.


55.
In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between a Nisg̱a'a law under
paragraph 53 or 54 and a federal or provincial law, the Nisg̱a'a law
prevails to the extent of the inconsistency or conflict.


56.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws in respect of the use,
possession, and management of assets, located off of Nisg̱a'a Lands, of
the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, or a Nisg̱a'a Corporation.


57.
A Nisg̱a'a Village Government may make laws in respect of the use,
possession, and management of assets of that Nisg̱a'a Village, located
off of Nisg̱a'a Lands.


58.
In the event of a conflict between a Nisg̱a'a law under paragraphs 56 or
57 and a federal or provincial law of general application, the federal
or provincial law prevails to the extent of the conflict.


Public Order, Peace, and Safety


59.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws in respect of the regulation,
control, or prohibition of any actions, activities, or undertakings on
Nisg̱a'a Lands, or on submerged lands within Nisg̱a'a Lands, other than
actions, activities, or undertakings on submerged lands that are
authorized by the Crown, that constitute, or may constitute, a nuisance,
a trespass, a danger to public health, or a threat to public order,
peace, or safety.


60.
A Nisg̱a'a Village Government may make laws in respect of the regulation,
control, or prohibition of any actions, activities, or undertakings on
the Nisg̱a'a Village Lands of that Nisg̱a'a Village, or on submerged lands
within those Nisg̱a'a Village Lands, other than actions, activities, or
undertakings on those submerged lands that are authorized by the Crown,
that constitute, or may constitute, a nuisance, a trespass, a danger to
public health, or a threat to public order, peace, or safety.


61.
For greater certainty, Nisg̱a'a Government authority does not include
authority in respect of criminal law.


62.
In the event of a conflict between a Nisg̱a'a law under paragraph 59 or
60 and a federal or provincial law of general application, the federal
or provincial law prevails to the extent of the conflict.


Duty to Accommodate


63.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws prescribing the aspects of
Nisg̱a'a culture, including aspects such as cultural leave from
employment, to be accommodated in accordance with federal and provincial
laws of general application by employers and employees' organizations
that have the duty to accommodate employees under those federal and
provincial laws.


Industrial Relations


64.
If, in any industrial relations matter or industrial relations
proceeding involving individuals employed on Nisg̱a'a Lands, other than a
matter or proceeding arising from a collective agreement, an issue
arises in respect of this Agreement or Nisg̱a'a culture, the matter or
proceeding will not be concluded until notice has been served on Nisg̱a'a
Lisims Government in accordance with the rules for giving notice that
govern that matter or proceeding.


65.
In any industrial relations matter or industrial relations proceeding to
which paragraph 64 applies, Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make
representations concerning this Agreement or the effect of the matter or
proceeding on Nisg̱a'a culture.


66.
Any representations of Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government in an industrial
relations matter or industrial relations proceeding before a board,
commission, or other tribunal under paragraph 65 will be in accordance
with the rules in respect of the industrial relations matter or
proceeding and will not affect the ability of the board, commission, or
other tribunal to control its process.


67.
For greater certainty, paragraphs 64 to 66 do not affect federal or
provincial jurisdiction in respect of industrial relations, employment
standards, and occupational health and safety.


Human Resource Development


68.
At the request of any Party, the Parties will negotiate and attempt to
reach agreements for Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government delivery and
administration of federal or provincial services or programs that are
intended to:


a. improve the employability or skill level of the labour force and
persons destined for the labour force; or


b. create new employment or work experience opportunities.


Buildings, Structures, and Public Works


69.
Subject to the Roads and Rights of Way Chapter, Nisg̱a'a Lisims
Government may make laws in respect of the design, construction,
maintenance, repair, and demolition of buildings, structures, and public
works on Nisg̱a'a Lands.


70.
Subject to the Roads and Rights of Way Chapter, a Nisg̱a'a Village
Government may make laws in respect of the matters referred to in
paragraph 69, to apply on the Nisg̱a'a Village Lands of that Nisg̱a'a
Village.


71.
In the event of a conflict between a Nisg̱a'a law under paragraph 69 or
70 and a federal or provincial law of general application, the federal
or provincial law prevails to the extent of the conflict.


Traffic and Transportation


72.
A Nisg̱a'a Village Government may make laws in respect of the regulation
of traffic and transportation on Nisg̱a'a Roads within its village, to
the same extent as municipal governments have authority in respect of
the regulation of traffic and transportation in municipalities in
British Columbia.


73.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws in respect of the regulation of
traffic and transportation on Nisg̱a'a Roads, other than Nisg̱a'a Roads
within Nisg̱a'a villages, to the same extent as municipal governments
have authority in respect of the regulation of traffic and
transportation in municipalities in British Columbia.


74.
In the event of a conflict between a Nisg̱a'a law under paragraphs 72 or
73 and a federal or provincial law of general application, the federal
or provincial law prevails to the extent of the conflict.


Solemnization of Marriages


75.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws in respect of solemnization of
marriages within British Columbia, including prescribing conditions
under which individuals appointed by Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may
solemnize marriages.


76.
In the event of a conflict between a Nisg̱a'a law under paragraph 75 and
a federal or provincial law of general application, the federal or
provincial law prevails to the extent of the conflict.


77.
Individuals appointed by Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government to solemnize
marriages:


a. will be registered by British Columbia as persons authorized to
solemnize marriages; and


b. have the authority to solemnize marriages under British Columbia law
and Nisg̱a'a law, and have all the associated rights, duties and
responsibilities of a marriage commissioner under the provincial
Marriage Act
.


Social Services


78.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws in respect of the provision of
social services by Nisg̱a'a Government to Nisg̱a'a citizens, other than
the licensing and regulation of facility-based services off Nisg̱a'a
Lands.


79.
In the event of a conflict between a Nisg̱a'a law under paragraph 78 and
a federal or provincial law of general application, the federal or
provincial law prevails to the extent of the conflict.


80.
If Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government makes laws under paragraph 78, at the
request of any Party, the Parties will negotiate and attempt to reach
agreements in respect of exchange of information, avoidance of double
payments, and related matters.


81.
At the request of any Party, the Parties will negotiate and attempt to
reach agreements for administration and delivery by Nisg̱a'a Government
of federal and provincial social services and programs for all
individuals residing within Nisg̱a'a Lands. Those agreements will include
a requirement that Nisg̱a'a citizens and individuals who are not Nisg̱a'a
citizens be treated equally in the provision of those social services
and programs.


Health Services


82.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws in respect of health services on
Nisg̱a'a Lands.


83.
In the event of a conflict between a Nisg̱a'a law under paragraph 82 and
a federal or provincial law of general application, the federal or
provincial law prevails to the extent of the conflict.


84.
Notwithstanding paragraph 83, in the event of an inconsistency or
conflict between a Nisg̱a'a law determining the organization and
structure for the delivery of health services on Nisg̱a'a Lands, and a
federal or provincial law, the Nisg̱a'a law prevails to the extent of the
inconsistency or conflict.


85.
At the request of any Party, the Parties will negotiate and attempt to
reach agreements for Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government delivery and
administration of federal and provincial health services and programs
for all individuals residing within Nisg̱a'a Lands. Those agreements will
include a requirement that Nisg̱a'a citizens and individuals who are not
Nisg̱a'a citizens be treated equally in the provision of those health
services and programs.


Aboriginal Healers


86.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws in respect of the authorization
or licensing of individuals who practice as aboriginal healers on
Nisg̱a'a Lands, but, this authority to make laws does not include the
authority to regulate products or substances that are regulated under
federal or provincial laws of general application.


87.
In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between a Nisg̱a'a law under
paragraph 86 and a federal or provincial law, the Nisg̱a'a law prevails
to the extent of the inconsistency or conflict.


88.
Any Nisg̱a'a law under paragraph 86 will include measures in respect of
competence, ethics and quality of practice that are reasonably required
to protect the public.


Child and Family Services


89.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws in respect of child and family
services on Nisg̱a'a Lands, provided that those laws include standards
comparable to provincial standards intended to ensure the safety and
well-being of children and families.


90.
Notwithstanding any laws made under paragraph 89
,
if there is an emergency in which a child on Nisg̱a'a Lands is at risk,
British Columbia may act to protect the child and, in those
circumstances, unless British Columbia and Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government
otherwise agree, British Columbia will refer the matter back to Nisg̱a'a
Lisims Government after the emergency.


91.
In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between a Nisg̱a'a law under
paragraph 89 and a federal or provincial law, the Nisg̱a'a law prevails
to the extent of the inconsistency or conflict.


92.
At the request of Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government, Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government
and British Columbia will negotiate and attempt to reach agreements in
respect of child and family services for Nisg̱a'a children who do not
reside on Nisg̱a'a Lands.


93.
Laws of general application in respect of reporting of child abuse apply
on Nisg̱a'a Lands.


Child Custody


94.
Nisg̱a'a Government has standing in any judicial proceedings in which
custody of a Nisg̱a'a child is in dispute, and the court will consider
any evidence and representations in respect of Nisg̱a'a laws and customs
in addition to any other matters it is required by law to consider.


95.
The participation of Nisg̱a'a Government in proceedings referred to in
paragraph 94 will be in accordance with the applicable rules of court
and will not affect the court's ability to control its process.


Adoption


96.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws in respect of the adoption of
Nisg̱a'a children, provided that those laws:


a. expressly provide that the best interests of the child be the
paramount consideration in determining whether an adoption will take
place; and


b. require Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government to provide British Columbia and
Canada with records of all adoptions occurring under Nisg̱a'a laws.


97.
Nisg̱a'a law applies to the adoption of a Nisg̱a'a child residing off
Nisg̱a'a Lands if:


a. the parent, parents, or guardian of the child consent to the
application of Nisg̱a'a law to the adoption; or


b. a court dispenses with the requirement for the consent referred to in
subparagraph (a), in accordance with the criteria that would be used by
that court in an application to dispense with the requirement for a
parent or guardian's consent to an adoption.


98.
If the Director of Child Protection, or a successor to that position,
becomes the guardian of a Nisg̱a'a child, the Director will:


a. provide notice to Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government that the Director is the
guardian of the Nisg̱a'a child;


b. provide notice to Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government of any plan for the
Nisg̱a'a child's care that could result in an application to adopt the
Nisg̱a'a child; and


c. consent to the application of Nisg̱a'a law to the adoption of that
child, unless it is determined under provincial law that there are good
reasons to believe it is in the best interests of the child to withhold
consent.


99.
In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between a Nisg̱a'a law under
paragraph 96 and a federal or provincial law, the Nisg̱a'a law prevails
to the extent of the inconsistency or conflict.


Pre-school to Grade 12 Education


100.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws in respect of pre-school to
grade 12 education on Nisg̱a'a Lands of Nisg̱a'a citizens, including the
teaching of Nisg̱a'a language and culture, provided that those laws
include provisions for:


a. curriculum, examination, and other standards that permit transfers of
students between school systems at a similar level of achievement and
permit admission of students to the provincial post-secondary education
systems;


b. certification of teachers, other than for the teaching of Nisg̱a'a
language and culture, by:


i. a Nisg̱a'a Institution, in accordance with standards comparable to
standards applicable to individuals who teach in public or independent
schools in British Columbia, or


ii. a provincial body having the responsibility to certify individuals
who teach in public or independent schools in British Columbia; and


c. certification of teachers, for the teaching of Nisg̱a'a language and
culture, by a Nisg̱a'a Institution, in accordance with standards
established under Nisg̱a'a law.


101.
In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between a Nisg̱a'a law under
paragraph 100 and a federal or provincial law, the Nisg̱a'a law prevails
to the extent of the inconsistency or conflict.


102.
If Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government makes laws under paragraph 100, at the
request of Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government or British Columbia, those Parties
will negotiate and attempt to reach agreements concerning the provision
of Kindergarten to Grade 12 education to:


a. persons other than Nisg̱a'a citizens residing within Nisg̱a'a Lands;
and

b. Nisg̱a'a citizens residing off Nisg̱a'a Lands.

Post-Secondary Education


103.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws in respect of post-secondary
education within Nisg̱a'a Lands, including:


a. the establishment of post-secondary institutions that have the
ability to grant degrees, diplomas or certificates;


b. the determination of the curriculum for post-secondary institutions
established under Nisg̱a'a law;


c. the accreditation and certification of individuals who teach or
research Nisg̱a'a language and culture; and


d. the provision for and coordination of all adult education programs.


104.
Nisg̱a'a laws in respect of post-secondary education will include
standards comparable to provincial standards in respect of:


a. institutional organizational structure and accountability;

b. admission standards and policies;

c. instructors' qualifications and certification;


d. curriculum standards sufficient to permit transfers of students
between provincial post-secondary institutions; and


e. requirements for degrees, diplomas, or certificates.


105.
In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between a Nisg̱a'a law under
paragraph 103 and a federal or provincial law, the Nisg̱a'a law prevails
to the extent of the inconsistency or conflict.


106.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may operate and provide post-secondary
education services outside Nisg̱a'a Lands in accordance with federal and
provincial laws.


107.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may prescribe the terms and conditions under
which Nisg̱a'a post-secondary institutions may enter into arrangements
with other institutions or British Columbia to provide post-secondary
education outside Nisg̱a'a Lands.


Gambling and Gaming


108.
British Columbia will not licence or approve gambling or gaming
facilities on Nisg̱a'a Lands other than in accordance with any terms and
conditions established by Nisg̱a'a Government that are not inconsistent
with federal and provincial laws of general application.


109.
Any change in federal or provincial legislation or policy that permits
the involvement of aboriginal peoples in the regulation of gambling and
gaming will, with the consent of Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government, apply to
Nisg̱a'a Government.


Intoxicants


110.
Nisg̱a'a Government may make laws in respect of the prohibition of, and
the terms and conditions for, the sale, exchange, possession, or
consumption of intoxicants on Nisg̱a'a Lands.


111.
In the event of a conflict between a Nisg̱a'a law under paragraph 110 and
a federal or provincial law of general application, the federal or
provincial law prevails to the extent of the conflict.


112.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation, its agents and assignees have:


a. the exclusive right to sell liquor on Nisg̱a'a Lands in accordance
with laws of general application; and


b. the right to purchase liquor from the British Columbia Liquor
Distribution Branch, or its successors, in accordance with federal and
provincial laws of general application.


113.
British Columbia will approve an application made by or with the consent
of Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government for a license, permit, or other authority
to sell liquor on Nisg̱a'a Lands, if the application meets provincial
regulatory requirements.


114.
British Columbia will authorize persons designated by Nisg̱a'a
Government, in accordance with provincial laws of general application,
to approve or deny applications for special occasion or temporary
permits to sell liquor.


Devolution of Cultural Property


115.
In paragraphs 116 to 119,
"cultural property"
means:


a. ceremonial regalia and similar personal property associated with a
Nisg̱a'a chief or clan; and


b. other personal property that has cultural significance to the Nisg̱a'a
Nation.


116.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws in respect of devolution of the
cultural property of a Nisg̱a'a citizen who dies intestate. In the event
of an inconsistency or conflict between a Nisg̱a'a law under this
paragraph and a federal or provincial law, the Nisg̱a'a law prevails to
the extent of the inconsistency or conflict.


117.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government has standing in any judicial proceeding in
which:


a. the validity of the will of a Nisg̱a'a citizen; or


b. the devolution of the cultural property of a Nisg̱a'a citizen


is at issue, including any proceedings under wills variation
legislation.


118.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may commence an action under wills variation
legislation in British Columbia in respect of the will of a Nisg̱a'a
citizen that provides for a devolution of cultural property.


119.
In a proceeding to which paragraph 116, 117 or 118 applies, the court
will consider, among other matters, any evidence or representations in
respect of Nisg̱a'a laws and customs dealing with the devolution of
cultural property.


120.
The participation of Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government in proceedings referred
to in paragraphs 116 to 118 will be in accordance with the applicable
rules of court and will not affect the court's ability to control its
process.


Other Areas of Legislative Jurisdiction


121.
In addition to the laws that Nisg̱a'a Government may make under this
Chapter, Nisg̱a'a Government may make laws in respect of matters within
Nisg̱a'a Government jurisdiction as set out in, and in accordance with,
this Agreement.



EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS


122.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government, with respect to Nisg̱a'a Lands, has the
rights, powers, duties, and obligations of a local authority under
federal and provincial legislation in respect of emergency preparedness
and emergency measures.


123.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws in respect of its rights,
powers, duties, and obligations under paragraph 122. In the event of a
conflict between a Nisg̱a'a law under this paragraph and a federal or
provincial law of general application, the federal or provincial law
prevails to the extent of the conflict.


124.
For greater certainty, Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may declare a state of
local emergency, and exercise the powers of a local authority in respect
of local emergencies in accordance with federal and provincial laws in
respect of emergency measures, but any declaration and any exercise of
those powers is subject to the authority of Canada and British Columbia
set out in those federal and provincial laws.


125.
Nothing in this Agreement affects the authority of:

a. Canada to declare a national emergency; or

b. British Columbia to declare a provincial emergency


in accordance with federal and provincial laws of general application.



OTHER MATTERS


126.
For greater certainty, the authority of Nisg̱a'a Government to make laws
in respect of a subject matter as set out in this Agreement includes the
authority to make laws and to do other things as may be necessarily
incidental to exercising its authority.


127.
Nisg̱a'a Government may make laws and do other things that may be
necessary to enable each of the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, and
Nisg̱a'a Government to exercise its rights, or to carry out its
responsibilities, under this Agreement.


128.
Nisg̱a'a Government may provide for the imposition of penalties,
including fines, restitution, and imprisonment for the violation of
Nisg̱a'a laws, within the limits set out for summary conviction offences
in the
Criminal Code of Canada
or the British Columbia
Offence Act
.


129.
Nisg̱a'a Government may adopt federal or provincial laws in respect of
matters within Nisg̱a'a Government jurisdiction as set out in this
Agreement.



NISG̱A'A GOVERNMENT LIABILITY


Elected Members of Nisg̱a'a Government


130.
No action for damages lies, or may be instituted against, an elected
member, or former elected member, of Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government or of a
Nisg̱a'a Village Government:


a. for anything said or done, or omitted to be said or done, by or on
behalf of the Nisg̱a'a Nation, Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government, a Nisg̱a'a
Village, or a Nisg̱a'a Village Government, while that person is, or was,
an elected member;


b. for any alleged neglect or default in the performance, or intended
performance, of a duty, or the exercise of a power, of the Nisg̱a'a
Nation, Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government, a Nisg̱a'a Village, or a Nisg̱a'a
Village Government, while that person is, or was, an elected member;


c. for anything said or done, or omitted to be said or done, by that
person in the performance, or intended performance, of the person's duty
or the exercise of the person's power; or


d. for any alleged neglect or default in the performance, or intended
performance, of that person's duty or exercise of that person's power.


131.
Subparagraphs 130 (c) and (d) do not provide a defence if:


a. the person has, in relation to the conduct that is the subject matter
of the action, been guilty of dishonesty, gross negligence or malicious
or wilful misconduct; or

b. the cause of action is libel or slander.

132.
Subparagraphs 130(c) and (d) do not absolve the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a
Nisg̱a'a Village from vicarious liability arising out of a tort committed
by an elected member or former elected member of Nisg̱a'a Lisims
Government, or the Nisg̱a'a Village Government for which the Nisg̱a'a
Nation or the Nisg̱a'a Village would have been liable had those
subparagraphs not been in effect.


Nisg̱a'a Nation and Nisg̱a'a Villages


133.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation, and each Nisg̱a'a Village, has the protections,
immunities, limitations in respect of liability, remedies over, and
rights provided to a municipality under Part 7 of the
Municipal Act
.


134.
Subject to paragraph 1 of the Access Chapter, the Nisg̱a'a Nation and
each Nisg̱a'a Village has the protections, immunities, limitations in
respect of liability, remedies over, and rights provided to a
municipality under the
Occupiers Liability Act
, and, for greater certainty, has those protections, immunities,
limitations in respect of liability, remedies over, and rights, in
respect of a road on Nisg̱a'a Lands used by the public, or by industrial
or resource users, if the Nisg̱a'a Nation or the Nisg̱a'a Village is the
occupier of that road.


Nisg̱a'a Governments


135.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government, and each Nisg̱a'a Village Government, has the
protections, immunities, limitations in respect of liability, remedies
over, and rights provided to the council of a municipality under Part 7
of the
Municipal Act
.



Writ of Execution Against Nisg̱a'a Nation or Nisg̱a'a Village



136.
Notwithstanding paragraphs 133 and 135, a writ of execution against the
Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village must not be issued without leave of
the Supreme Court of British Columbia, which may:


a. permit the issue of the writ at a time and on conditions the court
considers proper; or


b. refuse to permit the writ to be issued, or suspend action under the
writ, on terms and conditions the court thinks proper or expedient.


137.
In determining how it will proceed under paragraph 136, the court must
have regard to:


a. any reputed insolvency of the Nisg̱a'a Nation or Nisg̱a'a Village;


b. any security afforded to the person entitled to the judgment by the
registration of the judgment;


c. the delivery of programs or services by the Nisg̱a'a Nation or the
Nisg̱a'a Village that are not provided by municipalities in British
Columbia, and the funding of those programs or services; and


d. the immunities from seizure of assets of the Nisg̱a'a Nation or the
Nisg̱a'a Village as set out in this Agreement.


Nisg̱a'a Public Officers


138.
A Nisg̱a'a public officer has the protections, immunities, limitations in
respect of liability, and rights provided to a municipal public officer
under Part 7 of the
Municipal Act
.


139.
Notwithstanding paragraph 138, except as may be otherwise provided under
federal or provincial law, a Nisg̱a'a public officer does not have
protections, immunities, or limitations in respect of liability, in
respect of the provision of:


a. a service, if no persons delivering reasonably similar programs or
services under federal or provincial laws have protections, immunities,
limitations in respect of liability, or rights under federal or
provincial laws; or


b. a program or service of the Nisg̱a'a Court, Nisg̱a'a Police Board, or
Nisg̱a'a Police Service, except as provided for in the Administration of
Justice Chapter.


140.
The Inspector of Municipalities for British Columbia will not
unreasonably withhold consent to the approval of the documents of
incorporation of a Nisg̱a'a Corporation if the principal function of the
Nisg̱a'a Corporation is to provide public programs or services reasonably
similar to those provided by federal, provincial, or municipal
governments, rather than to engage in commercial activities.


141.
British Columbia will consult with Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government in respect
of any change to provincial law that would affect the protections,
immunities, limitations in respect of liability, remedies over, and
rights referred to in paragraphs 133, 134, 135, or 138 to the extent and
in the manner that it consults with municipalities.



OTHER PROVINCES AND TERRITORIES


142.
Notwithstanding paragraph 4 of the General Provisions Chapter, this
Agreement is not intended to bind provinces, other than British
Columbia, or territories, on matters within their jurisdiction without
their consent.




CHAPTER 12


ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE



POLICE SERVICES


General


1.
If Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government decides to provide policing within Nisg̱a'a
Lands, it may do so by:


a. making laws for a Nisg̱a'a Police Board and a Nisg̱a'a Police Service
under paragraph 3;


b. entering into agreements under which some or all of the policing will
be provided by the provincial police service or other police services;
or

c. both (a) and (b).

2.
The Parties' objectives are that a Nisg̱a'a Police Service:


a. be responsive to the needs and priorities of the Nisg̱a'a Nation;


b. has the full range of police responsibilities and the authority to
enforce Nisg̱a'a laws, the laws of British Columbia, the criminal law,
and other federal laws within Nisg̱a'a lands; and


c. contributes to the administration of justice, the maintenance of
social order, and public security.



Establishment of Nisg̱a'a Police Board and Nisg̱a'a Police Service



3.
If Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government decides to establish a Nisg̱a'a Police
Service, Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government will make laws to provide for the
establishment, organization, composition, indemnification, and roles and
responsibilities of a Nisg̱a'a Police Board and a Nisg̱a'a Police Service.


4.
Nisg̱a'a laws under paragraph 3 will include provisions:


a. in substantial conformity with provincial legislation in respect of:


i. minimum standards for certification of members of the Nisg̱a'a Police
Service,


ii. the swearing in of the members of the Nisg̱a'a Police Service and the
Nisg̱a'a Police Board,


iii. use of force by members of the Nisg̱a'a Police Service,


iv. discipline and dismissal procedures for members of the Nisg̱a'a
Police Service, and

v. a public complaint procedure; and

b. compatible with provincial legislation in respect of:


i. selection standards for the members of the Nisg̱a'a Police Service,


ii. a code of conduct for members of the Nisg̱a'a Police Service,


iii. appropriate mechanisms to ensure police independence,
accountability, and competence, and

iv. police operations.

Nisg̱a'a Police Board


5.
The Nisg̱a'a Police Board will:


a. be independent and accountable in accordance with the standards that
apply generally to police boards in British Columbia;


b. provide general direction and training to the Nisg̱a'a Police Service;


c. determine priorities and goals of the Nisg̱a'a Police Service;


d. act as the employer of the members of the Nisg̱a'a Police Service;


e. appoint members of the Nisg̱a'a Police Service, including a chief
constable who, under the direction of the Nisg̱a'a Police Board, will
have general supervision and command over the Nisg̱a'a Police Service,
and will have the powers and authorities necessary to direct the members
of the Nisg̱a'a Police Service;


f. make rules respecting standards for the administration of the Nisg̱a'a
Police Service, the prevention of neglect and abuse by its members, and
the efficient discharge of their duties and functions;


g. enforce the code of conduct established for the Nisg̱a'a Police
Service and take any necessary disciplinary action; and


h. enter into agreements from time to time for training, specialized
training, mutual support, assistance, and exchange of information and
expertise.


6.
The Nisg̱a'a Police Board may exercise its functions when the Lieutenant
Governor in Council has:


a. approved the Nisg̱a'a Police Board's structure and membership
qualifications; and

b. appointed the Nisg̱a'a Police Board's members.

7.
An amendment to the Nisg̱a'a Police Board's structure and membership
qualifications will take effect when approved by the Lieutenant Governor
in Council.


8.
If Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government has made laws in accordance with paragraphs
3 and 4, the Lieutenant Governor in Council will:


a. approve the Nisg̱a'a Police Board's structure and membership
qualifications;


b. approve any amendment to the structure or membership qualifications;
and


c. appoint the members of the Nisg̱a'a Police Board.


9.
If, after Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government makes a law under paragraph 3, the
effect of a change in a provincial law is that the Nisg̱a'a law ceases to
be:


a. in substantial conformity with provincial legislation in respect of
the matters set out in subparagraph 4 (a); or


b. compatible with provincial legislation in respect of the matters set
out in subparagraph 4 (b)


the Nisg̱a'a law will be deemed to incorporate the provincial law to the
extent necessary for substantial conformity or compatibility, as the
case may be, until the Nisg̱a'a law is amended by Nisg̱a'a Lisims
Government.


10.
The Lieutenant Governor in Council will appoint to the Nisg̱a'a Police
Board only individuals who have been recommended by Nisg̱a'a Lisims
Government, and will not revoke the appointment of any Nisg̱a'a Police
Board member, other than for cause, without the concurrence of Nisg̱a'a
Lisims Government.


11.
When the Lieutenant Governor in Council has approved the structure and
membership qualifications of the Nisg̱a'a Police Board and appointed its
members, Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government:


a. will provide policing sufficient to maintain law and order within
Nisg̱a'a Lands;


b. will ensure that there are adequate physical resources for the proper
operation of police services within Nisg̱a'a lands; and


c. is jointly and severally liable for torts committed by members of the
Nisg̱a'a Police Service or by other employees of the Nisg̱a'a Police Board
in the performance of their duties.


12.
The Nisg̱a'a Police Board and its members are not liable for torts
committed by members of the Nisg̱a'a Police Service, or by other
employees of the Nisg̱a'a Police Board, in the performance of their
duties.


Nisg̱a'a Police Service


13.
A member of the Nisg̱a'a Police Service:


a. has the powers, duties, privileges, liabilities and responsibilities
of a peace officer according to law;


b. has the immunity from personal liability provided to police officers
under provincial law; and


c. has authority throughout British Columbia while carrying out the
powers, duties, privileges, and responsibilities that a police constable
or peace officer is entitled or required to exercise or carry out
according to law.


14.
If a member of the Nisg̱a'a Police Service performs duties outside of
Nisg̱a'a Lands, the member will, if possible, notify in advance the
municipal police service or the provincial police service of the area in
which the member performs duties, but in any case will promptly notify
the municipal police service or provincial police service after
performing those duties.


15.
If a provincial or other police constable performs duties within Nisg̱a'a
Lands, the constable will, if possible, notify the Nisg̱a'a Police
Service in advance, but in any case will notify the Nisg̱a'a Police
Service promptly after performing those duties.


16.
The Nisg̱a'a Police Service and other police forces in British Columbia
will respond to requests from one another for temporary assistance in
accordance with federal and provincial law.


17.
British Columbia will be jointly and severally liable with respect to
torts committed by a member of the Nisg̱a'a Police Service in the
performance of the member's duties outside of Nisg̱a'a Lands.


18.
At the request of the Nisg̱a'a Nation, the Parties will, to the extent of
their respective jurisdictions, negotiate and attempt to reach
agreements or protocols as may be necessary to enable Nisg̱a'a Lisims
Government to carry out its policing responsibilities, including
agreements concerning:


a. the role and responsibility of the provincial police service in the
provision of police services within Nisg̱a'a Lands;


b. mutual assistance and operational cooperation between the Nisg̱a'a
Police Service and other police services;

c. other matters required by this Chapter; and

d. any other matters relating to police services.


19.
If the Minister is of the opinion that:


a. effective policing in accordance with standards prevailing elsewhere
in British Columbia is not being delivered within Nisg̱a'a Lands; or


b. it is necessary or desirable to ensure effective delivery of policing
in accordance with standards prevailing elsewhere in British Columbia


the Minister, on terms approved by the Lieutenant Governor in Council,
may provide or reorganize policing within Nisg̱a'a Lands by appointing
individuals as constables, using the provincial police force to provide
policing, or by other means.


20.
The Minister will not exercise authority under paragraph 19 if that
exercise discriminates against the Nisg̱a'a Police Service or is aimed at
aboriginal police forces generally throughout British Columbia.


21.
If practicable, before exercising authority under paragraph 19, the
Minister will provide Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government with:


a. written notice of the reasons or circumstances that form the basis of
the Minister's decision to provide or reorganize policing;


b. reasonable opportunity to show cause why no action should be taken;
and


c. reasonable opportunity to correct or modify any Nisg̱a'a Lisims
Government acts or omissions that form the basis for the Minister's
decision to provide or reorganize policing.


22.
If it is not practicable for the Minister to comply with paragraph 21
before exercising authority under paragraph 19, the Minister, after
exercising that authority, will forthwith provide Nisg̱a'a Lisims
Government with the notice and opportunities described in paragraph 21.



COMMUNITY CORRECTION SERVICES


23.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may appoint one or more persons to provide
community correction services in respect of persons charged with, or
convicted of, offences under Nisg̱a'a laws.


24.
At the request of the Nisg̱a'a Nation, the Nisg̱a'a Nation and British
Columbia will negotiate and attempt to reach agreements to enable the
persons appointed under paragraph 23 to provide community correction
services within Nisg̱a'a Lands under provincial legislation.


25.
An agreement under paragraph 24 will contain provisions:


a. ensuring that community correction services are delivered in
accordance with generally accepted standards;


b. confirming the authority of the official charged with the
responsibility for investigations, inspections, and standards under
provincial legislation; and


c. for Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government to provide community correction
services consistent with the needs and priorities of the Nisg̱a'a Nation.


26.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation and British Columbia may enter into agreements to
enable the persons appointed under paragraph 23 to provide community
correction services outside Nisg̱a'a Lands under provincial legislation.


27.
Persons performing duties under agreements referred to in paragraphs 24
to 26 will comply with all provincial standards respecting professional,
personal, and other qualifications, except as modified by those
agreements.


28.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation and Canada may enter into agreements:


a. to enable the persons appointed under paragraph 23 to provide
community correction services under federal legislation; and


b. for the provision of services or programs for adult and young
offenders, including their care and custody.


29.
This Agreement does not authorize Nisg̱a'a Government to establish places
of confinement, other than jails or lockups operated by the Nisg̱a'a
Police Service, or as provided for under an agreement referred to in
paragraph 28.



NISG̱A'A COURT


General


30.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws to provide for the constitution,
maintenance, and organization of a Nisg̱a'a Court for the better
administration of Nisg̱a'a laws.


31.
Until Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government establishes a Nisg̱a'a Court that has
been approved by the Lieutenant Governor in Council, prosecutions under
Nisg̱a'a laws will be heard in the Provincial Court of British Columbia.


32.
Any fines collected in respect of a penalty imposed on a person by the
Provincial Court of British Columbia for a violation of a Nisg̱a'a law
will be paid to Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government on a similar basis as British
Columbia makes payments to Canada for fines that may be collected by
British Columbia for a violation of a federal law.


Establishment of Nisg̱a'a Court


33.
If Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government decides to establish a Nisg̱a'a Court,
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government will make laws to:


a. ensure that the Nisg̱a'a Court and its judges comply with generally
recognized principles in respect of judicial fairness, independence, and
impartiality;


b. provide for means of supervision of judges of the Nisg̱a'a Court by
the Judicial Council of British Columbia or other similar means; and


c. provide procedures for appeals from decisions of the Nisg̱a'a Court.


34.
The Nisg̱a'a Court may exercise its functions when the Lieutenant
Governor in Council has approved the Nisg̱a'a Court's structure,
procedures, and method of selection of judges of the Nisg̱a'a Court.


35.
An amendment to the Nisg̱a'a Court's structure, procedures, or method of
selection of judges of the Nisg̱a'a Court will take effect when approved
by the Lieutenant Governor in Council.


36.
The Lieutenant Governor in Council will approve the Nisg̱a'a Court's
structure, procedures, and the method of selection of the judges of the
Nisg̱a'a Court or any amendment to the structure, procedures, or method
of selection of judges of the Nisg̱a'a Court, if Nisg̱a'a Lisims
Government has made laws in accordance with paragraph 33.


37.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government will appoint the judges of the Nisg̱a'a Court.


Nisg̱a'a Court


38.
The Nisg̱a'a Court may exercise the powers and perform all the duties
conferred or imposed on it by or under Nisg̱a'a laws, in respect of:


a. the review of administrative decisions of Nisg̱a'a Public
Institutions;


b. the adjudication of prosecutions under Nisg̱a'a laws; and


c. the adjudication of disputes arising under Nisg̱a'a laws between
Nisg̱a'a citizens on Nisg̱a'a Lands that would be within the jurisdiction
of the Provincial Court of British Columbia if the disputes arose under
provincial law.


39.
The Nisg̱a'a Court may adjudicate in respect of a dispute not referred to
in paragraph 38 if the parties to that dispute, before commencing the
proceeding in the Nisg̱a'a Court, agree:


a. to accept the Nisg̱a'a Court's authority to decide the dispute and to
grant the remedies as between the parties sought in the proceeding; and


b. that any order of the Nisg̱a'a Court will be final and binding, except
for an appeal under paragraph 48.


40.
In addition to the matters set out in paragraphs 38 and 39, the Nisg̱a'a
Court may exercise jurisdiction that may be assigned to the Nisg̱a'a
Court by federal or provincial law.


41.
The Nisg̱a'a Court:


a. may impose penalties and other remedies under the laws of Nisg̱a'a
Government, British Columbia, or Canada in accordance with generally
accepted principles of sentencing;


b. in disputes under subparagraph 38 (c), may make any order that could
be made by the Provincial Court of British Columbia if the disputes
arose under provincial law;


c. in disputes under paragraph 39, may grant the remedies sought by the
parties;


d. may apply traditional Nisg̱a'a methods and values, such as using
Nisg̱a'a elders to assist in adjudicating and sentencing, and emphasizing
restitution; and


e. may issue process, such as summons, subpoenas, and warrants.


42.
Any process issued by the Nisg̱a'a Court has the same force and effect as
process issued by the Provincial Court of British Columbia.


43.
In proceedings in which an accused person may receive a sentence of
imprisonment under Nisg̱a'a law, the accused person may elect to be tried
in the Provincial Court of British Columbia.


44.
The Nisg̱a'a Court may not impose on a person who is not a Nisg̱a'a
citizen a sanction or penalty different in nature from those generally
imposed by provincial or superior courts in Canada, without the person's
consent.


Appeals


45.
An appeal from a final decision of the Nisg̱a'a Court in respect of
prosecutions under Nisg̱a'a laws may be taken to the Supreme Court of
British Columbia on the same basis as summary conviction appeals under
the
Criminal Code of Canada
.


46.
An appeal from a final decision of the Nisg̱a'a Court in respect of a
review of an administrative decision under subparagraph 38 (a) may be
taken to the Supreme Court of British Columbia on an error of law or
jurisdiction.


47.
An appeal from a decision of the Nisg̱a'a Court in respect of a matter
under subparagraph 38 (c) may be taken to the Supreme Court of British
Columbia on the same basis as a similar decision could be appealed from
the Provincial Court of British Columbia.


48.
An appeal from a final decision of the Nisg̱a'a Court in respect of a
matter under paragraph 39 may be taken to the Supreme Court of British
Columbia on an error of law or jurisdiction.


Enforcement


49.
An order of the Nisg̱a'a Court may be registered in the Supreme Court of
British Columbia and, once registered, will be enforceable as an order
of the Supreme Court of British Columbia.


Other


50.
The Lieutenant Governor in Council, upon recommendation of Nisg̱a'a
Lisims Government and with the concurrence of the persons or bodies
required under provincial law, may appoint a judge of the Nisg̱a'a Court
as a provincial court judge, justice of the peace, or referee.


51.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government is responsible for the prosecution of all
matters arising from Nisg̱a'a laws, including appeals, and may carry out
this responsibility by:


a. appointing or retaining individuals to conduct prosecutions and
appeals, in a manner consistent with the principle of prosecutorial
independence and consistent with the overall authority and role of the
Attorney General in the administration of justice in British Columbia;


b. entering into agreements with Canada or British Columbia in respect
of the conduct of prosecutions and appeals; or

c. both (a) and (b).


REVIEW


52.
The Parties will review this Chapter no later than 10 years after the
effective date, and may amend this Chapter if all Parties agree.




CHAPTER 13



INDIAN ACT
TRANSITION




GENERAL


1.
The
Indian Act
applies, with any modifications that the circumstances require, to the
estate of a Nisg̱a'a citizen who:


a. died testate or intestate before the effective date; and

b. at the time of death, was a member of the:
i. Gitlakdamix Indian Band,
ii. Gitwinksihlkw Indian Band,
iii. Lakalzap Indian Band, or
iv. Gingolx Indian Band.

2.
Before the effective date, Canada will take reasonable steps to:


a. notify in writing all members of the Nisg̱a'a Indian bands that are
referred to in paragraph 1 who have deposited wills with the Minister;
and


b. provide information to persons who may be eligible for enrolment
under this Agreement


that their wills may not be valid after the effective date, and that
their wills should be reviewed to ensure validity under provincial laws.


3.
Section 51 of the
Indian Act
applies, with any modifications that the circumstances require, to the
property and estate of a Nisg̱a'a citizen:


a. who was a "mentally incompetent Indian" as defined in the
Indian Act
immediately before the effective date; and


b. whose property and estate was under the authority of the Minister
under section 51 of the
Indian Act
immediately before the effective date


until they are no longer a "mentally incompetent Indian".


4.
Sections 52, 52.2, 52.3, 52.4 and 52.5 of the
Indian Act
apply, with any modifications that the circumstances require, to the
administration of any property to which a Nisg̱a'a citizen who is an
infant child of an Indian is entitled, if the Minister was administering
that property under the
Indian Act
immediately before the effective date, until the duties of the Minister
in respect of the administration have been discharged.


5.
Nisg̱a'a Government will provide for participation in Nisg̱a'a Public
Institutions by individuals who are ordinarily resident within Nisg̱a'a
Lands, who are not Nisg̱a'a citizens, and who were members of the Indian
bands referred to in paragraph 1 on the date immediately before the
effective date.


6.
The means of participation under paragraph 5 will be:


a. a reasonable opportunity to make representations to a Nisg̱a'a Public
Institution;


b. the ability to vote for, or become a member of, a Nisg̱a'a Public
Institution if the members of the Nisg̱a'a Public Institution are
elected; or

c. other comparable measures.



CONTINUATION OF
INDIAN ACT
BY-LAWS



7.
The by-laws of the Gitlakdamix, Gitwinksihlkw, Gingolx or Lakalzap
Indian Bands that were in effect immediately before the effective date,
have effect for 30 days after the effective date on the Nisg̱a'a Village
Lands of the Nisg̱a'a Village Government that replaces the band council
that made the by-law.


8.
The relationship between a by-law referred to in paragraph 7, and
federal and provincial laws, will be governed by the provisions of this
Agreement governing the relationship between Nisg̱a'a laws and federal
and provincial laws in respect of the subject matter of the by-law.


9.
The Nisg̱a'a Village Government replacing the band council that made a
by-law referred to in paragraph 7, may repeal, but not amend, that
by-law.


10.
Nothing in this Agreement precludes a person from challenging the
validity of a by-law referred to in paragraph 7.



STATUS OF BANDS AND TRANSFER OF BAND ASSETS


11.
Subject to this Agreement, on the effective date, all of the rights,
titles, interests, assets, obligations, and liabilities of:


a. the Gitlakdamix Indian Band vest in the Nisg̱a'a Village of New
Aiyansh;


b. the Gitwinksihlkw Indian Band vest in the Nisg̱a'a Village of
Gitwinksihlkw;


c. the Lakalzap Indian Band vest in the Nisg̱a'a Village of La
x
galt'sap; and


d. the Gingolx Indian Band vest in the Nisg̱a'a Village of Gingolx

and those Indian Bands cease to exist.

12.
On the effective date, Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government will designate the
Nisg̱a'a Lands that were, before the effective date, Indian reserves set
aside for the use and benefit of:


a. the Gitlakdamix Indian Band, as Nisg̱a'a Village Lands of New Aiyansh;


b. the Gitwinksihlkw Indian Band, as Nisg̱a'a Village Lands of
Gitwinksihlkw;


c. the Lakalzap Indian Band, as Nisg̱a'a Village Lands of La
x
galt'sap; and


d. the Gingolx Indian Band, as Nisg̱a'a Village Lands of Gingolx.



NISG̱A'A TRIBAL COUNCIL


13.
Subject to this Agreement, on the effective date, all of the rights,
titles, interests, assets, obligations, and liabilities of the Nisg̱a'a
Tribal Council vest in the Nisg̱a'a Nation, and the Nisg̱a'a Tribal
Council ceases to exist.




CHAPTER 14


PROVISIONAL SCHEDULE OF CAPITAL TRANSFER AMOUNTS



CAPITAL TRANSFER


1.
Subject to paragraph 4, Canada and British Columbia will each pay their
respective capital transfer amounts to the Nisg̱a'a Nation, in accordance
with Schedule A.



NEGOTIATION LOAN REPAYMENT


2.
Subject to paragraph 3, the Nisg̱a'a Nation will pay loan repayment
amounts to Canada in accordance with Schedule B.


3.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation may pay to Canada, in advance and on account, without
bonus or penalty, amounts that will be credited against the loan
repayment amounts in the manner described in Schedule B.


4.
Canada may deduct from a capital transfer amount that it would otherwise
be required to pay to the Nisg̱a'a Nation on a scheduled date in
accordance with Schedule A, any loan repayment amount, or portion
thereof, that the Nisg̱a'a Nation would otherwise be required to pay to
Canada in accordance with Schedule B on that scheduled date, except to
the extent that the loan repayment amount has been prepaid in accordance
with paragraph 3.




SCHEDULE A — PROVISIONAL SCHEDULE OF CAPITAL TRANSFER AMOUNTS







AMOUNTS




DATE



CANADA

WILL PAY




BRITISH COLUMBIA

WILL PAY




On the effective date




On the first anniversary




On the second anniversary




On the third anniversary




On the fourth anniversary




On the fifth anniversary




On the sixth anniversary




On the seventh anniversary




On the eighth anniversary




On the ninth anniversary





On the 10
th
anniversary






On the 11
th
anniversary






On the 12
th
anniversary






On the 13
th
anniversary






On the 14
th
anniversary







In this schedule
"anniversary"
means an anniversary of the effective date.


Note 1 and Note 2 to this Schedule will be deleted, and will no longer
form part of this Agreement, when this Schedule is completed in
accordance with those Notes and the effective date occurs.


Note 1 to Schedule A

The Parties will calculate on the calculation date the amounts to be
shown in the provisional schedule of capital transfer amounts in
accordance with this Note.


The Canada and British Columbia capital transfer amounts for the
effective date will sum to $22.0 million.


The Canada and British Columbia capital transfer amounts for the first
anniversary will sum to $22.0 million.


The Canada and British Columbia capital transfer amounts will sum to
$13.0 million for each of the second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, and
seventh anniversaries.

The capital transfer amounts for the eighth to fourteenth anniversaries,
inclusive, will be calculated on the calculation date as follows:


all seven of the Canada capital transfer amounts will be equal amounts
and each will be calculated so that the net present value, calculated on
the calculation date, of all of the Canada capital transfer amounts in
the provisional schedule of capital transfer amounts, discounted back to
the beginning of the provisional schedule of capital transfer amounts,
and using the calculation rate as the discount rate, will equal
$175,554,200 multiplied by M and divided by L; and


all seven of the British Columbia capital transfer amounts will be equal
amounts and each will be calculated so that the net present value,
calculated on the calculation date, of all of the British Columbia
capital transfer amounts in the provisional schedule of capital transfer
amounts, discounted back to the beginning of the provisional schedule of
capital transfer amounts, and using the calculation rate as the discount
rate, will equal $14,445,800 multiplied by M and divided by L


where L, M, the calculation date and the calculation rate are defined in
Note 2 to this schedule.


On each scheduled date, the Canada capital transfer amount will be
approximately 92.4 per cent of the sum of the Canada capital transfer
amount and the British Columbia capital transfer amount, and the British
Columbia capital transfer amount will be approximately 7.6 per cent of
the same sum.


Note 2 to Schedule A


The Parties will calculate on the revision date the amounts to be shown
in the final version of this schedule in accordance with this Note and
will delete the word "PROVISIONAL" from the title of this schedule.


In this note

"signing of the Nisg̱a'a final agreement"

means signing by the Parties after the ratification by the Nisg̱a'a
Nation in accordance with paragraph 2 of the Ratification Chapter.

If, within fifteen months after the signing of the Nisg̱a'a final
agreement, the Parliament of Canada has not enacted settlement
legislation to give effect to the Nisg̱a'a final agreement, Part B of
this note will apply. Otherwise, Part A will apply. In either event, the
following will apply:


"*" means multiplied by, and "/" means divided by;

CR is the calculation rate;

L is the value of FDDIPI for the fourth quarter of 1995 published by
Statistics Canada at the same time as the value used in M is published;


M is the first published value of FDDIPI for the latest calendar quarter
for which Statistics Canada has published a FDDIPI before the
calculation date;


FDDIPI is the Final Domestic Demand Implicit Price Index for Canada,
series D15613, published regularly by Statistics Canada in Matrix 6544:
Implicit Price Indexes, Gross Domestic Product;


the calculation date is a date 14 days before the signing of the Nisg̱a'a
final agreement, or another date if the Parties agree, and is the same
calculation date as that referred to in Schedule B; and


the revision date is a date 14 days before the effective date, or
another date if the Parties agree, and is the same revision date as that
referred to in Schedule B.


Part A of Note 2

On the revision date, the final schedule of capital transfer amounts
will be prepared by amending each amount in this provisional schedule as
follows:

amount in provisional schedule * (L/M) * (N/O)
where:

N is the first published value of FDDIPI for the latest calendar quarter
for which Statistics Canada has published a FDDIPI before the revision
date, and


O is the value of FDDIPI for the fourth quarter of 1995 published by
Statistics Canada at the same time as the value used in N is published.


Part B of Note 2

On the revision date, the final schedule of capital transfer amounts
will be prepared by amending each amount in the provisional schedule as
follows:


amount in provisional schedule * (L/M) * (P/Q) * (1 + CR)
Y
* (1 + CR * D/365)

where:

P is the first published value of FDDIPI for the latest calendar quarter
for which Statistics Canada has published a FDDIPI before the transition
date,


Q is the value of FDDIPI for the fourth quarter of 1995 published by
Statistics Canada at the same time as the value used in P is published,


Y is the number of complete years between the transition date and the
effective date,


D is the number of days remaining in the period between the transition
date and the effective date, after deducting the complete years in that
period that have been taken into account in the determination of Y,


the transition date is the date that is 15 months after the date of the
signing of the Nisg̱a'a final agreement, and

the calculation rate is x.xxx per cent per year.

[The rate to be inserted in the definition of calculation rate is the
most recently released rate of interest, as of the calculation date,
that the Minister of Finance for Canada has approved on loans from the
Consolidated Revenue Fund amortized over 14 years, less 0.125 per cent
(specified to three decimal places of a per cent).]


This paragraph is for information purposes and not for calculation
purposes. The approximate effects of applying Part B are to limit the
period for which the capital transfer is adjusted by FDDIPI to the
period that ends on the date that is 15 months after the signing of the
Nisg̱a'a final agreement, and to lengthen the period for which the
capital transfer is adjusted by the calculation rate to the period
between the date that is 15 months after the signing of the Nisg̱a'a
final agreement and the effective date.



SCHEDULE B — LOAN REPAYMENT AMOUNTS




On the effective date
0


On the first anniversary
0


On the second anniversary
$2,000,000


On the third anniversary
$2,000,000


On the fourth anniversary
$2,000,000


On the fifth anniversary
$2,000,000


On the sixth anniversary
$2,000,000


On the seventh anniversary
$2,000,000


On the eighth anniversary

to be calculated on revision date



On the ninth anniversary

to be calculated on revision date



On the 10th anniversary

to be calculated on revision date



On the 11th anniversary

to be calculated on revision date



On the 12th anniversary

to be calculated on revision date



On the 13th anniversary

to be calculated on revision date



On the 14th anniversary

to be calculated on revision date





In this schedule
"anniversary"
means an anniversary of the effective date.



PREPAYMENTS


In addition to any required loan repayment amount, at each anniversary,
and up to three times during the first nine months after an anniversary,
the Nisg̱a'a Nation may make loan prepayments to Canada. All prepayments
will be applied to the outstanding scheduled loan repayment amount(s) in
consecutive order from the effective date.


The "r" anniversary at which a prepayment is to be applied is the
earliest anniversary for which a scheduled loan repayment amount, or a
portion thereof, remains outstanding. Any loan prepayment applied to an
outstanding loan repayment amount, or to a portion thereof, will be
credited to the Nisg̱a'a Nation at its future value, as of the "r"
anniversary, determined in accordance with the following formula:


Future Value = Prepayment * (1 + calculation rate)
Zr
* (1 + calculation rate * E/365)

where:

"*" means multiplied by, and "/" means divided by,


Zr is the number of complete years between the date of the prepayment
and the "r" anniversary,


E is one plus the number of days between the date of the prepayment and
the "r" anniversary, once the number of complete years referred to in
"Zr" above has been deducted, and

the calculation rate is x.xxx per cent per year.

[The rate to be inserted in the definition of the calculation rate is
the most recently released rate of interest, as of the calculation date,
that the Minister of Finance for Canada has approved on loans from the
Consolidated Revenue Fund amortized over 14 years, less 0.125 per cent
(specified to three decimal places of a per cent). The calculation date
is a date 14 days before the signing of the Nisg̱a'a final agreement, or
another date if the Parties agree, and is the same calculation date as
that referred to in Schedule A. In this paragraph

"signing of the Nisg̱a'a final agreement"

means signing by the Parties after the ratification by the Nisg̱a'a
Nation in accordance with paragraph 2 of the Ratification Chapter. This
bracketed paragraph will be deleted on the date that Note 1 to this
schedule is deleted.]


If the future value of the prepayment exceeds the outstanding amount of
the loan repayment amount scheduled for the "r" anniversary, the excess
will be deemed to be a prepayment made on the "r" anniversary so that
the future value of the excess will be applied as of the next "r"
anniversary in a manner analogous to that described in this paragraph.


On receipt of a loan prepayment, Canada will issue a letter to the
Nisg̱a'a Nation setting out the amount of the prepayment received and the
manner in which it will be applied in accordance with this "Prepayments"
section of this schedule.

Illustrative Example:
Hypothetical calculation rate = 10.000%
Annual equal payments of $100.00
Prepayment = $100, made in year four at day 182

Fifth anniversary payment has been previously prepaid

Amount owing at fifth anniversary = $0.00
Amount owing at sixth anniversary = $100.00

Therefore:
Zr = 1
E = 184
r = 6


Future Value of prepayment made in year four at day 182 = $100.00 *
(1+0.10000)
1
* (1 + 0.10000 * 184/365) = $115.55

Amount prepaid for sixth anniversary = $100.00

Amount in excess for sixth anniversary = $115.55 – $100.00 = $15.55


Future value of $15.55 as of the seventh anniversary = $15.55 * (1 +
0.10000)
1
* (1 + 0.10000 * 0/365) = $17.11

Amount prepaid for seventh anniversary = $17.11


The prepayment made at day 182 in year four has eliminated the loan
repayment amount for the sixth anniversary and reduced the loan
repayment amount for the seventh anniversary from $100.00 to $82.89.


Note 1 to this Schedule will be deleted, and will no longer form part of
this Agreement, when this Schedule is completed in accordance with the
Note and the effective date occurs.


Note 1 to Schedule B


Canada will calculate in accordance with this note the actual loan
repayment amounts for the eighth to 14th anniversaries inclusive to be
inserted on the revision date in the final version of this schedule. In
the final version of this schedule the loan repayment amounts for the
effective date, and for the first to seventh anniversaries inclusive,
will remain as set out in the initial version of this schedule.


The revision date is a date 14 days before the effective date, or
another date if the Parties agree, and is the same revision date as that
referred to in Schedule A.


On the revision date, Canada will calculate the amounts in the final
schedule of loan repayment amounts for the eighth to 14
th
anniversaries, inclusive. These seven amounts will be equal amounts and
each will be such that the net present value of all of the amounts in
the final schedule of loan repayment amounts, discounted back to the
effective date using the calculation rate (as described in the
"Prepayment" section of this Schedule B) as the discount rate, will
equal the loan amount.


In this schedule, the loan amount means the aggregate outstanding
balance, at the effective date, of all negotiation and support loans,
including principal and accrued interest, made by Canada to the Nisg̱a'a
Tribal Council.


Canada will calculate the loan amount, based on a document that Canada
and the Nisg̱a'a Tribal Council will produce jointly before the
initialling of the Nisg̱a'a final agreement. That document will set out
the amounts of all loans from Canada to the Nisg̱a'a Tribal Council,
interest accrued to date and the relevant terms and conditions of those
loans.


The document referred to in the previous paragraph will be available
from either the Nisg̱a'a Tribal Council or the Federal Treaty Negotiation
Office of the Department of Indian Affairs and Northern Development,
upon request, as of the date of initialling of the Nisg̱a'a final
agreement, to persons eligible to be enrolled as participants under that
agreement.


For information purposes (and not for calculation purposes), the
approximate amount of outstanding loans, including principal and accrued
interest, as of the date that settlement legislation is introduced in
Parliament, will be inserted in the following blank space before that
date: ____________.




CHAPTER 15


FISCAL RELATIONS



DEFINITIONS


1.
In this Chapter and in the Taxation Chapter:


"capital transfer"
means an amount paid by Canada or British Columbia under the Capital
Transfer and Negotiation Loan Repayment Chapter;


"Income Tax Act"
means the
Income Tax Act
, S.C. 1985 (5th Supp.) c. 1;



"Income Tax Act (British Columbia)"

means the
Income Tax Act
, RSBC 1996, c. 215;


"Nisg̱a'a capital"
means all land, cash, and other assets transferred to, or recognized as
owned by, the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village under this Agreement,
except land added to Nisg̱a'a Lands under paragraph 9 or 11 of the Lands
Chapter;



"Nisg̱a'a capital finance authority"

means an authority for the benefit of the Nisg̱a'a Nation and all Nisg̱a'a
Villages, established in accordance with a fiscal financing agreement,
to enable the financing of capital projects of the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a
Nisg̱a'a Village on Nisg̱a'a Lands, and operated in accordance with the
most recent fiscal financing agreement;


"Nisg̱a'a exempt corporation"
means a corporation, other than a Nisg̱a'a government corporation, in
which the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village has a direct or indirect
interest as a shareholder, that is exempt from tax on its taxable income
under laws of Canada or British Columbia;



"Nisg̱a'a government corporation"

means any corporation, commission or association, all of the shares
(except directors' qualifying shares) or capital of which belong to the
Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, or a Nisg̱a'a settlement trust, or any
combination thereof, and for this purpose where, at any time, any shares
or capital of a corporation, commission or association belong, or are
deemed by this paragraph to belong, to another corporation, a
partnership, or a trust that is not a Nisg̱a'a settlement trust,
("intermediary"), those shares or that capital will be deemed to belong
to each shareholder, partner or beneficiary, as the case may be, of the
intermediary, proportionate to the relative fair market values of their
respective interests in that intermediary;


"Nisg̱a'a settlement trust"
means any trust having the following characteristics:

a. the trust is resident in Canada,

b. the beneficiaries of the trust are limited to the Nisg̱a'a Nation, any
Nisg̱a'a Village, another Nisg̱a'a settlement trust, all Nisg̱a'a citizens,
all Nisg̱a'a citizens in any Nisg̱a'a Village, or any registered charity
or non-profit organization, within the meaning of the
Income Tax Act
, that in the reasonable opinion of the trustees directly or indirectly
benefits one or more Nisg̱a'a citizens, or any combination of those
entities and persons,


c. the investment of the funds of the trust is restricted to:


i. investment instruments that are described as qualified investments
for a trust governed by a registered retirement savings plan within the
meaning of section 146 of the
Income Tax Act
or in any other investments that may be agreed upon from time to time by
the Nisg̱a'a Nation, Canada and British Columbia,


ii. loans to a Nisg̱a'a citizen, the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village,
or a Nisg̱a'a government corporation at a rate of interest equal to the
rate prescribed under regulation 4301(c) of the
Income Tax Act
in effect at the time the loan was made or last renewed,


iii. investments in a share of a Nisg̱a'a government corporation where
the average annual rate of dividends on that share over any five year
period cannot exceed the rate prescribed under regulation 4301 (c) of
the
Income Tax Act
at the beginning of that period, and if the amount receivable on
redemption of the share or on liquidation of the corporation is limited
to the amount of the consideration for which the share was originally
issued, and


iv. low interest or interest free loans to a Nisg̱a'a citizen, or a
partnership or trust in which Nisg̱a'a citizens hold all the interests as
partners or beneficiaries, where the purpose of the loan is to assist
the borrower to:


A. acquire, construct or renovate a residential property for their own
habitation in British Columbia,


B. attend courses to further their own education, technical or
vocational skills, or attend courses in native studies, culture or
language programs, or


C. acquire funding for purposes of carrying on a business on Nisg̱a'a
Lands or Nisg̱a'a Fee Simple Lands, where the borrower is unable to
borrow from ordinary commercial lenders at normal commercial rates,


where, at the time the loan was made,
bona fide
arrangements were made for repayment of the loan within a reasonable
period of time,


d. the trust is not permitted to carry on a business as a proprietor or
member of a partnership, or acquire any beneficial interest in a trust
engaged in a business where one or more of the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a
Village, a Nisg̱a'a government corporation, a Nisg̱a'a settlement trust or
a Nisg̱a'a citizen, either alone or in combination, holds more than 10%
of all of the beneficial interests in the trust,


e. the trust does not borrow money except as required to finance the
acquisition of qualified investments or to carry out its operations,


f. contributions to the trust are limited to contributions received from
the Nisg̱a'a Nation of capital transfer payments received by it under the
Capital Transfer and Negotiation Loan Repayment Chapter or amounts
received from another Nisg̱a'a settlement trust where substantially all
of the funds of that contributing trust reasonably can be considered to
have been derived from a contribution to a Nisg̱a'a settlement trust by
the Nisg̱a'a Nation of capital transfer payments received by it under the
Financial Transfers Chapter and income and gains derived therefrom, and


g. the trust is not permitted to make any distributions other than to
one or more beneficiaries in accordance with the trust, or to another
Nisg̱a'a settlement trust; and


"person"
includes an individual, a partnership, a corporation, a trust, an
unincorporated association or other entity or government or any agency
or political subdivision thereof, and their heirs, executors,
administrators and other legal representatives.



INTERPRETATION


2.
If a principle in paragraph 16, or in an own source revenue agreement,
applies in respect of a Nisg̱a'a exempt corporation, the own source
revenue capacity that results:


a. will be reduced proportionately to fully account for the direct or
indirect ownership interests in the corporation of persons other than
the Nisg̱a'a Nation, the Nisg̱a'a Villages, Nisg̱a'a government
corporations, and Nisg̱a'a settlement trusts; and


b. if the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village, or any combination of
them, cannot cause a distribution by the corporation, will be taken into
account only at the time, and to the extent, that a distribution is made
to the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, or a Nisg̱a'a government
corporation.



FISCAL FINANCING AGREEMENTS


3.
Every five years, or at other intervals if the Parties agree, the
Parties will negotiate and attempt to reach agreement on a fiscal
financing agreement by which funding will be provided to the Nisg̱a'a
Nation to enable the provision of agreed-upon public programs and
services to Nisg̱a'a citizens and, where applicable, non-Nisg̱a'a
occupants of Nisg̱a'a Lands, at levels reasonably comparable to those
generally prevailing in northwest British Columbia.


4.
A fiscal financing agreement is not intended to be a treaty or land
claims agreement, and is not intended to recognize or affirm aboriginal
or treaty rights, within the meaning of sections 25 and 35 of the
Constitution Act, 1982
.


5.
The recognition of the legislative authority of Nisg̱a'a Lisims
Government and Nisg̱a'a Village Governments does not create or imply any
funding or financial obligation for Canada, British Columbia, the
Nisg̱a'a Nation, or a Nisg̱a'a Village.


6.
Nisg̱a'a citizens are eligible to participate in programs established by
Canada or British Columbia and to receive public services from Canada or
British Columbia, in accordance with general criteria established for
those programs or services from time to time, to the extent that the
Nisg̱a'a Nation has not assumed responsibility for those programs or
public services under a fiscal financing agreement.


7.
The Parties will negotiate and attempt to reach agreements in respect of
grants, between them,
in lieu
of property taxes.


8.
The funding for the Nisg̱a'a Nation and Nisg̱a'a Villages is a shared
responsibility of the Parties and it is the shared objective of the
Parties that, where feasible, the reliance of the Nisg̱a'a Nation and
Nisg̱a'a Villages on transfers will be reduced over time.


9.
In negotiating fiscal financing agreements, the Parties will take into
account, among other things:


a. costs necessary to establish and operate Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government
and Nisg̱a'a Village Governments, and agreed-upon Nisg̱a'a Public
Institutions and the Nisg̱a'a Court;


b. efficiency and effectiveness in the provision of public programs and
services;

c. location and accessibility of Nisg̱a'a Lands;

d. population and demographic characteristics of persons receiving
agreed-upon public programs and services;


e. other funding or support in respect of agreed-upon public programs or
services provided to the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village by Canada
or British Columbia;


f. the level, type and condition of agreed-upon public works and
utilities within Nisg̱a'a Lands;


g. major maintenance and replacement of assets identified in and funded
according to Schedule C to the first fiscal financing agreement, or
other agreed-upon community or health capital assets;


h. necessary training requirements for agreed-upon public programs and
services;


i. the desirability of reasonably stable, predictable and flexible
funding arrangements;


j. the jurisdictions, authorities and obligations of Nisg̱a'a Lisims
Government and the Nisg̱a'a Village Governments;


k. the authorities and obligations of, and the public programs and
services for which responsibility is assumed or is to be assumed by, the
Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village;


l. prevailing fiscal policies of Canada and British Columbia;

m. Nisg̱a'a cultural values; and

n. Nisg̱a'a Nation own source revenue capacity as determined under an own
source revenue agreement or, in the absence of an own source revenue
agreement, under this Chapter.


10.
The Parties will address the following, among other things, in fiscal
financing agreements:


a. procedures for negotiating the next fiscal financing agreement;


b. procedures for assuming or transferring responsibility for the
provision of agreed -upon programs and services;


c. procedures for funding, and assuming or transferring responsibility
for, the provision of additional programs and services during the term
of the fiscal financing agreement;

d. costs of emergencies and of fire suppression;
e. payment procedures;
f. dispute resolution; and
g. information exchange.

11.
Unless the Parties otherwise agree, the first fiscal financing agreement
will come into effect on the effective date.


12.
If the Parties do not reach a further fiscal financing agreement by the
expiry date of a fiscal financing agreement, the fiscal financing
agreement will continue in effect for two years from its original expiry
date, or for any other period that the Parties may agree while they
attempt to reach a further fiscal financing agreement.


13.
Any amounts required for the purposes of a fiscal financing agreement
will be paid out of appropriations as may be made by the Parliament of
Canada or the Legislature of British Columbia for those purposes.



OWN SOURCE REVENUE AGREEMENTS


14.
Every 10 years, or at other intervals if the Parties agree, the Parties
will negotiate and attempt to reach agreement on an own source revenue
agreement under which Nisg̱a'a Nation own source revenue capacity, and
the manner and extent to which that capacity will be taken into account
under fiscal financing agreements, will be determined.


15.
An own source revenue agreement is not intended to be a treaty or land
claims agreement, and is not intended to recognize or affirm aboriginal
or treaty rights, within the meaning of sections 25 and 35 of the
Constitution Act, 1982
.


16.
In determining Nisg̱a'a Nation own source revenue capacity, the Parties
will apply the following principles:


a. the own source revenue capacity in respect of any source will not be
taken into account so as to unreasonably reduce the incentive for the
Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village to raise revenues from that source
or to occupy any tax room that other Canadian governments may have made
available by agreement with the Nisg̱a'a Nation;


b. there should be a fair basis of comparison between the own source
revenue capacity in respect of a Nisg̱a'a settlement trust and the
additional tax revenue that Canadian governments would have received if
the income and capital gains, net of losses, of the trust were earned or
realized in equal shares by all Nisg̱a'a citizens, instead of by the
trust, and if all Nisg̱a'a citizens were resident in British Columbia;


c. the own source revenue capacity in respect of each tax will not
exceed the sum of:


i. the value of any tax room made available in respect of the tax by
Canada or British Columbia under an agreement referred to in
subparagraph 3 (b) of the Taxation Chapter, or other agreement with the
Nisg̱a'a Nation, and


ii. where the tax is similar to a tax generally imposed by local
authorities in British Columbia:


A. if the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village is taxing only Nisg̱a'a
citizens, the amount by which the revenues derived by the Nisg̱a'a Nation
or the Nisg̱a'a Village from the tax exceed the amount, if any, included
in subparagraph 16 (c) (i), or


B. if there is a delegated taxation authority in respect of the tax,
under an agreement referred to in subparagraph 3 (a) of the Taxation
Chapter, the amount by which the tax capacity in respect of all persons
over which Nisg̱a'a Government has taxation power or authority exceeds
the amount included in subparagraph 16 (c) (i), and for this purpose,
tax capacity will be determined on a fair and reasonable basis, taking
into account the circumstances in Nisg̱a'a communities and in similar
communities in northwest British Columbia;


d. the own source revenue capacity in respect of commercial and
investment activities, including exploitation of a natural resource, of
the Nisg̱a'a Nation, the Nisg̱a'a Villages, Nisg̱a'a government
corporations, Nisg̱a'a exempt corporations, and corporations without
share capital established and operated for the benefit of the Nisg̱a'a
Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village, or any combination of them, will be
reasonably comparable to, and not exceed, the additional revenues that
other Canadian governments would have from taxation of those entities
if:


i. they were Canadian private enterprises subject to taxation under
federal and provincial laws of general application,


ii. the commercial and investment activities were their only activities,


iii. their only properties were properties related to the activities,
and


iv. those properties were owned by them as private persons and not as
governments; and


e. to the extent that a base is used in the calculation of a tax paid or
payable by the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, a Nisg̱a'a government
corporation, a Nisg̱a'a settlement trust, or a Nisg̱a'a exempt
corporation, it will not be used as a base in the calculation of Nisg̱a'a
Nation own source revenue capacity in place of that tax.


17.
Nisg̱a'a Nation own source revenue capacity in respect of any source not
referred to in paragraph 16 will be taken into account in a manner that
does not unreasonably reduce the incentive for the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a
Nisg̱a'a Village to raise revenues from that source.


18.
There is no Nisg̱a'a Nation own source revenue capacity in respect of:


a. proceeds from the sale of Nisg̱a'a Lands or Nisg̱a'a Fee Simple Lands;

b. a capital transfer;

c. the capital of a Nisg̱a'a settlement trust, except to the extent that
a capital gain results in own source revenue capacity in accordance with
the principle in subparagraph 16 (b);


d. a distribution of capital from a Nisg̱a'a settlement trust, except to
the extent that a distribution to a Nisg̱a'a citizen results in a tax
that is included in the determination of own source revenue capacity in
accordance with the principle in subparagraph 16 (c);


e. the Nisg̱a'a capital finance authority, including any income, gains or
property of the authority, and any distribution by the authority, except
to the extent that a distribution is included as own source revenue
capacity in respect of a commercial activity of the recipient of the
distribution; and


f. a transfer by a corporation to the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a
Village, to the extent that the transfer represents a distribution out
of income that has already been taken into account in determining
Nisg̱a'a Nation own source revenue capacity.


19.
Nisg̱a'a Nation own source revenue capacity will be phased in over a 12
year period as provided in the own source revenue agreement.


20.
Unless the Parties otherwise agree, the first own source revenue
agreement will come into effect on the effective date.



OWN SOURCE REVENUE ADMINISTRATION


21.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws that impose an obligation on the
Nisg̱a'a Nation, Nisg̱a'a Villages, Nisg̱a'a settlement trusts, or Nisg̱a'a
government corporations, in respect of the determination, adjustment,
payment, or collection of amounts, to enable the Nisg̱a'a Nation to
recover from those entities amounts in respect of Nisg̱a'a Nation own
source revenue capacity.


22.
In the event of a conflict between a Nisg̱a'a law under paragraph 21 and
a federal or provincial law of general application, the federal or
provincial law will prevail to the extent of the conflict.




CHAPTER 16


TAXATION



DIRECT TAXATION


1.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws in respect of direct taxation of
Nisg̱a'a citizens on Nisg̱a'a Lands in order to raise revenue for Nisg̱a'a
Nation or Nisg̱a'a Village purposes.


2.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government powers provided for in paragraph 1 will not
limit the powers of Canada or British Columbia to impose or levy tax or
make laws in respect of taxation.



OTHER TAXATION AND TAX ADMINISTRATION AGREEMENTS


3.
From time to time Canada and British Columbia, together or separately,
may negotiate with the Nisg̱a'a Nation, and attempt to reach agreement
on:


a. the extent, if any, to which Canada or British Columbia will provide
to Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government or a Nisg̱a'a Village Government direct
taxation authority over persons other than Nisg̱a'a citizens, on Nisg̱a'a
Lands; and


b. the coordination of Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government or Nisg̱a'a Village
Government taxation, of any person, with existing federal or provincial
tax systems.


4.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government and Nisg̱a'a Village Governments may make laws
in respect of the implementation of any taxation agreement entered into
with Canada or British Columbia.



SECTION 87 EXEMPTION


5.
Subject to paragraph 6, section 87 of the
Indian Act
applies to Nisg̱a'a citizens only to the extent that an Indian other than
a Nisg̱a'a citizen, or the property of that Indian, would be exempt from
taxation in similar circumstances by reason of the applicability of
section 87 of the
Indian Act
.


6.
Section 87 of the
Indian Act
will have no application to Nisg̱a'a citizens:


a. in respect of transaction taxes, only as of the first day of the
first month that starts after the eighth anniversary of the effective
date; and


b. in respect of all other taxes, only as of the first day of the first
calendar year that starts on or after the twelfth anniversary of the
effective date.



REMISSION ORDERS


7.
Subject to paragraphs 8 and 9, as of the effective date, Canada and
British Columbia will each grant a remission of, respectively, federal
and provincial tax imposed or levied in respect of:


a. the estate or interest of an Indian in lands described in
subparagraph 2 (b) of the Lands Chapter that are within Nisg̱a'a Lands;


b. the personal property of an Indian situated on lands described in
subparagraph 2 (b) of the Lands Chapter that are within Nisg̱a'a Lands;
and


c. an Indian's ownership, occupation, possession or use of any property
referred to in subparagraph (a) or (b).


8.
A remission of tax under paragraph 7 will be granted only where the
property referred to in subparagraph 7 (a) or (b), or the
Indian in respect of the ownership, occupation, possession or use of the
property referred to in subparagraph 7 (a) or (b) would,
but for this Agreement, be exempt from taxation by reason of the
applicability of section 87 of the
Indian Act
.


9.
The orders authorizing the remissions of tax referred to in paragraph 7
will cease to be effective:


a. in respect of transaction taxes, as of the first day of the first
month that starts after the eighth anniversary of the effective date;
and


b. in respect of all other taxes, as of the first day of the first
calendar year that starts on or after the twelfth anniversary of the
effective date.



VALUATION TIME


10.
In paragraphs 11 and 12:


a.
"eligible individual"
means an Indian who, at the valuation time, holds an eligible interest;


b.
"eligible interest"
means any estate or interest in specified lands or in personal property
situated on specified lands;


c.
"specified lands"
in respect of an Indian means:


i. lands described in subparagraph 2 (b) of the Lands Chapter that are
within Nisg̱a'a Lands, and


ii. if the Indian is a Nisg̱a'a citizen, a reserve as defined in the
Indian Act
; and


d.
"valuation time"
means the beginning of the first day of the first calendar year that
starts on or after the twelfth anniversary of the effective date.


11.
For the purposes of the
Income Tax Act
and the
Income Tax Act
(British Columbia), if an eligible individual elects as described in
paragraph 12 to have this paragraph apply:


a. the individual is deemed to have disposed of each of the individual's
eligible interests, at the time that is immediately before the time that
is immediately before the valuation time, for an amount equal to its
fair market value at that time, and to have reacquired the eligible
interest at the valuation time at a cost equal to that fair market
value;


b. for greater certainty, it is understood that the deemed disposition
and reacquisition described in subparagraph (a) apply to all eligible
interests owned by the eligible individual at the valuation time; and


c. for the purposes of applying sections 37, 65 to 66.4, 111,
subsections 127 (5) to 127 (26) and section 127.3 of the
Income Tax Act
, the individual will be deemed not to have owned an eligible interest
referred to in subparagraph (a) at any time before the time it was
deemed to have been reacquired by the individual under that
subparagraph.


12.
Paragraphs 10 and 11 apply to any eligible individual who so elects in
writing in the individual's return of income under Part I of the
Income Tax Act
for the year that starts at the valuation time.



NISG̱A'A LANDS


13.
Neither the Nisg̱a'a Nation nor any Nisg̱a'a Village is subject to capital
taxation, including real property taxes and taxes on capital or wealth,
in respect of the estate or interest of either the Nisg̱a'a Nation or any
Nisg̱a'a Village in Nisg̱a'a Lands on which there are no improvements or
on which there is a designated improvement.


14.
In paragraph 13,
"designated improvement"
means:

a. a residence of a Nisg̱a'a citizen;

b. an improvement, all or substantially all of which is used for a
public purpose or a purpose ancillary or incidental to the public
purpose, including:


i. a public governance or administration building, public meeting
building, public hall, public school or other public educational
institution, teacherage, public library, public health facility, public
care facility, public seniors home, public museum, place of public
worship, manse, fire hall, police facility, court, correction facility,
public recreation facility, public park, or an improvement used for
Nisg̱a'a cultural or spiritual purposes,


ii. works of public convenience constructed or operated for the benefit
of Nisg̱a'a citizens, occupiers of Nisg̱a'a Lands or persons visiting or
in transit through Nisg̱a'a Lands, including public utility works, public
works used to treat or deliver water or as part of a public sewer
system, public roads, public bridges, public drainage ditches, traffic
signals, street lights, public sidewalks, and public parking lots, or

iii. similar improvements;

c. an improvement that is used primarily for the management, protection
or enhancement of a natural resource, including a forestry, fishery or
wildlife resource, other than an improvement that is used primarily in
harvesting or processing a natural resource for profit; and

d. forest resources and forest roads.

15.
In paragraph 14 (b), "public purpose" does not include the provision of
property or services primarily for the purpose of profit.


16.
Paragraph 13 does not affect the taxation of a person, other than the
Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village, in respect of an estate or interest
in Nisg̱a'a Lands, or exempt from taxation a disposition of capital by
the Nisg̱a'a Nation or any Nisg̱a'a Village.


17.
If, within 20 years after the effective date, Canada or British Columbia
enacts legislation giving effect to another land claims agreement
applicable in northwest British Columbia that:


a. provides that all of the lands that were set apart as reserves of an
Indian band whose members were represented by a party to the agreement
cease to be reserves; and


b. provides a tax exemption, not provided in paragraph 13, in respect of
an estate or interest in settlement lands


Canada and British Columbia, upon request of Nisg̱a'a Nation, will
negotiate and attempt to reach agreement on the provision of a similar
tax exemption for the Nisg̱a'a Nation and Nisg̱a'a Villages.



NISG̱A'A CAPITAL


18.
A transfer, or recognition of ownership, under this Agreement, of
Nisg̱a'a capital is not taxable.


19.
For the purposes of paragraph 18, an amount paid to a Nisg̱a'a
participant will be deemed to be a transfer of Nisg̱a'a capital under
this Agreement if the payment:


a. reasonably can be considered to be a distribution of a capital
transfer received by the Nisg̱a'a Nation; and


b. becomes payable to the Nisg̱a'a participant within 90 days, and is
paid to the Nisg̱a'a participant within 270 days, after the Nisg̱a'a
Nation receives the capital transfer.


20.
For the purposes of the
Income Tax Act
and the
Income Tax Act
(British Columbia), Nisg̱a'a capital transferred to, or recognized as
owned by, the Nisg̱a'a Nation or any Nisg̱a'a Village under this Agreement
will be deemed to have been acquired by the Nisg̱a'a Nation or the
Nisg̱a'a Village, as the case may be, on the latest of the effective
date, the date of transfer or the date of recognition, at a cost equal
to its fair market value on that date.



TAXATION AGREEMENT


21.
On the effective date, the Parties will enter into a Taxation Agreement.
The Taxation Agreement does not form part of this Agreement.


22.
The Taxation Agreement is not intended to be a treaty or land claims
agreement, and is not intended to recognize or affirm aboriginal or
treaty rights within the meaning of sections 25 and 35 of the
Constitution Act, 1982
.


23.
Canada and British Columbia will recommend to Parliament and the
Legislature, respectively, that the provisions of the Taxation Agreement
be given effect under federal and provincial law.




CHAPTER 17


CULTURAL ARTIFACTS AND HERITAGE



GENERAL


1.
The Parties recognize the integral role of Nisg̱a'a artifacts in the
continuation of Nisg̱a'a culture, values, and traditions.


2.
The Parties recognize the Nisg̱a'a Nation's traditional and sacred
connection with Nisg̱a'a artifacts, regardless of whether those artifacts
are held by the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, a Nisg̱a'a
Corporation, a Nisg̱a'a citizen, the Canadian Museum of Civilization, or
the Royal British Columbia Museum.


3.
If the Nisg̱a'a Nation or Canada considers that there may be an error in
the determination of whether an artifact:

a. set out in Appendix L-1; or

b. in the permanent collection of the Canadian Museum of Civilization,
including an artifact set out in Appendix L-2


is a Nisg̱a'a artifact, they will endeavour to determine whether the
artifact is a Nisg̱a'a artifact.


4.
If the Nisg̱a'a Nation or British Columbia considers that there may be an
error in the determination of whether an artifact:

a. set out in Appendix L-3; or

b. in the permanent collection of the Royal British Columbia Museum,
including an artifact set out in Appendix L-4


is a Nisg̱a'a artifact, they will endeavour to determine whether the
artifact is a Nisg̱a'a artifact.


5.
A disagreement in respect of a determination under paragraph 3 or 4 of
whether an artifact is a Nisg̱a'a artifact is a disagreement within the
meaning of the Dispute Resolution Chapter.


6.
An artifact originally obtained from a Nisg̱a'a person, a Nisg̱a'a
community, or a Nisg̱a'a heritage site is presumed, in the absence of
proof to the contrary, to be a Nisg̱a'a artifact.



RETURN OF NISG̱A'A ARTIFACTS


Canadian Museum of Civilization


7.
Appendix L-1 and Appendix L-2 set out all artifacts in the permanent
collection of the Canadian Museum of Civilization on the effective date
that have been identified as Nisg̱a'a artifacts.


8.
The Canadian Museum of Civilization will transfer to the Nisg̱a'a Nation
without condition all its legal interests in, and possession of, the
Nisg̱a'a artifacts set out in Appendix L-1:


a. as soon as practicable following a request by the Nisg̱a'a Nation;


b. if there is no request by the Nisg̱a'a Nation, five years after the
effective date or the date that the artifact was included in Appendix
L-1, whichever date is later; or


c. by any other date agreed to by the Canadian Museum of Civilization
and the Nisg̱a'a Nation.


9.
The transfer of the legal interests in, and possession of, the Nisg̱a'a
artifacts under paragraph 8 is deemed to occur when those artifacts
arrive at a location for delivery designated in writing by the Nisg̱a'a
Nation.


10.
If the Nisg̱a'a Nation does not designate a location for delivery, the
Canadian Museum of Civilization will deliver those artifacts to the
address for the Nisg̱a'a Nation set out in the General Provisions
Chapter.


11.
The Canadian Museum of Civilization:


a. will continue to hold the Nisg̱a'a artifacts set out in Appendix L-1
under the same terms and conditions as they are held on the effective
date, until they are transported to the Nisg̱a'a Nation;


b. will not be liable for any loss or damage to those Nisg̱a'a artifacts
unless the loss or damage results from dishonesty, gross negligence, or
malicious or wilful misconduct of its employees or agents; and


c. will determine the transportation arrangements for, and will
transport, those Nisg̱a'a artifacts in accordance with the prevailing
practices of the Canadian Museum of Civilization for transportation of
artifacts to museums.


12.
If, after the effective date:


a. a Nisg̱a'a artifact is permanently acquired by the Canadian Museum of
Civilization; or


b. it is determined under paragraph 3 or 5 that another artifact in the
collection of the Canadian Museum of Civilization is a Nisg̱a'a artifact


the artifact will be added to Appendix L-2 or, if the Canadian Museum of
Civilization and the Nisg̱a'a Nation agree, to Appendix L-1.


13.
If it is determined under paragraph 3 or 5 that an artifact set out in
Appendix L-1 is not a Nisg̱a'a artifact:


a. the artifact will be removed from Appendix L-1; and


b. unless the Nisg̱a'a Nation and Canada otherwise agree, the Nisg̱a'a
Nation will transfer its legal interests in, and possession of, the
artifact to the Canadian Museum of Civilization.


14.
If it is determined under paragraph 3 or 5 that an artifact set out in
Appendix L-2 is not a Nisg̱a'a artifact, the artifact will be removed
from Appendix L-2.


15.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation and the Canadian Museum of Civilization will share
possession of the Nisg̱a'a artifacts set out in Appendix L-2 in
accordance with any custodial agreements negotiated under paragraph 17.


16.
The Canadian Museum of Civilization is responsible for the care,
maintenance, and preservation of the Nisg̱a'a artifacts listed in
Appendix L-2, in accordance with resources available to the Canadian
Museum of Civilization for those activities and any custodial agreements
negotiated under paragraph 17.


17.
From time to time, at the request of the Nisg̱a'a Nation or the Canadian
Museum of Civilization, the Nisg̱a'a Nation and the Canadian Museum of
Civilization will negotiate and attempt to reach custodial agreements in
respect of Nisg̱a'a artifacts listed in Appendix L-2.


18.
Custodial agreements under paragraph 17 will:


a. respect Nisg̱a'a laws and practices relating to Nisg̱a'a artifacts; and


b. comply with federal and provincial laws of general application and
the statutory mandate of the Canadian Museum of Civilization.


19.
Custodial agreements under paragraph 17 may set out:


a. the Nisg̱a'a artifacts to be in the possession of the Nisg̱a'a Nation
and those to be in the possession of the Canadian Museum of
Civilization;


b. conditions of maintenance, storage, and handling of the Nisg̱a'a
artifacts;


c. conditions of access to and use, including study, display, and
reproduction, of the Nisg̱a'a artifacts and associated records by the
public, researchers, and scholars;


d. provisions for incorporating new information into catalogue records
and displays of the Nisg̱a'a artifacts; and


e. provisions for enhancing public knowledge about the Nisg̱a'a Nation
through the participation of Nisg̱a'a citizens in public programs and
activities at the Canadian Museum of Civilization.


20.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation and the Canadian Museum of Civilization:


a. will consult each other if either of them proposes to transfer its
legal interest in a Nisg̱a'a artifact set out in Appendix L-1 or L-2
respectively; and


b. may exercise a right of first refusal to acquire the Nisg̱a'a artifact
on the proposed terms of the transfer.


Royal British Columbia Museum


21.
Appendix L-3 and Appendix L-4 set out all artifacts in the permanent
collection of the Royal British Columbia Museum on the effective date,
that have been identified as Nisg̱a'a artifacts.


22.
British Columbia will transfer to the Nisg̱a'a Nation without condition
all its legal interests in, and possession of, the Nisg̱a'a artifacts set
out in Appendix L-3:


a. as soon as practicable following a request by the Nisg̱a'a Nation;


b. if there is no request by the Nisg̱a'a Nation, five years after the
effective date or the date that the artifact was included in Appendix
L-3, whichever date is later; or


c. by any other date agreed to by British Columbia and the Nisg̱a'a
Nation.


23.
The transfer of the legal interests in, and possession of, the Nisg̱a'a
artifacts under paragraph 22 is deemed to occur when those artifacts
arrive at a location for delivery designated in writing by the Nisg̱a'a
Nation.


24.
If the Nisg̱a'a Nation does not designate a location for delivery, the
Royal British Columbia Museum will deliver those artifacts to the
address for the Nisg̱a'a Nation set out in the General Provisions
Chapter.


25.
The Royal British Columbia Museum:


a. will continue to hold the Nisg̱a'a artifacts set out in Appendix L-3
under the same terms and conditions as they are held on the effective
date, until they are transported to the Nisg̱a'a Nation;


b. will not be liable for any loss or damage to those Nisg̱a'a artifacts
unless the loss or damage results from dishonesty, gross negligence, or
malicious or wilful misconduct of its employees or agents; and


c. will determine the transportation arrangements for, and will
transport, those Nisg̱a'a artifacts in accordance with the prevailing
practices of the Royal British Columbia Museum for transportation of
artifacts to museums.


26.
British Columbia will not be liable for any loss or damage to Nisg̱a'a
artifacts set out in Appendix L-3 unless the loss or damage results from
dishonesty, gross negligence, or malicious or wilful misconduct of its
employees or agents.


27.
If, after the effective date, a Nisg̱a'a artifact is permanently acquired
by the Royal British Columbia Museum, the artifact will be included in
Appendix L-4 or, where the Royal British Columbia Museum and Nisg̱a'a
Nation agree, will be transferred to Nisg̱a'a Nation in accordance with
this Chapter.


28.
If it is determined under paragraph 4 or 5 of this Chapter that another
artifact in the collection of the Royal British Columbia Museum on the
effective date is a Nisg̱a'a artifact, the artifact will be included in
Appendix L-4, or transferred to Nisg̱a'a Nation in accordance with this
Chapter, in order to maintain the representative division of the Nisg̱a'a
artifacts in Appendix L-3 and Appendix L-4.


29.
If it is determined under paragraph 4 or 5 that an artifact listed in
Appendix L-3 is not a Nisg̱a'a artifact:


a. the artifact will be removed from Appendix L-3; and


b. unless the Nisg̱a'a Nation and British Columbia otherwise agree, the
Nisg̱a'a Nation will transfer its legal interests in, and possession of,
the artifact to the Royal British Columbia Museum.


30.
If it is determined under paragraph 4 or 5 that an artifact listed in
Appendix L-4 is not a Nisg̱a'a artifact, the artifact will be removed
from Appendix L-4.


31.
From time to time, at the request of the Nisg̱a'a Nation or British
Columbia, the Nisg̱a'a Nation and British Columbia will negotiate and
attempt to reach custodial agreements in respect of the Nisg̱a'a
artifacts listed in Appendix L-4.


32.
Custodial agreements under paragraph 31 will:


a. respect Nisg̱a'a laws and practices relating to Nisg̱a'a artifacts; and


b. comply with federal and provincial laws of general application, and
the statutory mandate of the Royal British Columbia Museum.


33.
Custodial agreements under paragraph 31 may set out:


a. conditions of maintenance, storage, and handling of the Nisg̱a'a
artifacts;


b. conditions of access to and use, including study, display, and
reproduction, of the Nisg̱a'a artifacts and associated records by the
public, researchers, and scholars;


c. provisions for incorporating new information into catalogue records
and displays of the Nisg̱a'a artifacts; and


d. conditions under which Nisg̱a'a artifacts may be permanently removed
from the collection of the Royal British Columbia Museum.


34.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation and British Columbia may negotiate agreements that:


a. establish processes for lending Nisg̱a'a artifacts;

b. provide for replication of Nisg̱a'a artifacts;

c. provide for professional and technical training for Nisg̱a'a citizens
in museum skills and conservation expertise;


d. provide for enhancing public knowledge about the Nisg̱a'a Nation
through the participation of Nisg̱a'a citizens in public programs and
activities at the Royal British Columbia Museum; and

e. provide for other matters.


ACCESS TO OTHER COLLECTIONS


35.
From time to time, at the request of the Nisg̱a'a Nation, Canada and
British Columbia will use reasonable efforts to facilitate the Nisg̱a'a
Nation's access to Nisg̱a'a artifacts and human remains of Nisg̱a'a
ancestry that are held in other public and private collections.



PROTECTION OF HERITAGE SITES


36.
Nisg̱a'a Government will develop processes to manage heritage sites on
Nisg̱a'a Lands in order to preserve the heritage values associated with
those sites from proposed land and resource activities that may affect
those sites.


37.
British Columbia will develop or continue processes to manage heritage
sites in order to preserve the heritage values associated with those
sites from proposed land and resource activities that may affect those
sites.


38.
The processes under paragraphs 36 and 37 will include measures designed
to:

a. identify heritage sites;

b. provide notice to each other of heritage sites;

c. assess the significance of heritage sites;

d. ensure appropriate protective or management measures are taken to
protect, or, if necessary, to mitigate the effects of unavoidable
impacts on, heritage sites and associated material; and


e. ensure that the appropriate person takes those measures and bears the
associated costs.


39.
Until Nisg̱a'a Government establishes the processes referred to in
paragraph 36, British Columbia's processes will apply on Nisg̱a'a Lands.



OTHER NISG̱A'A ARTIFACTS


40.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation owns any Nisg̱a'a artifact discovered within Nisg̱a'a
Lands or Category A Lands after the effective date, unless another
person establishes their ownership of the artifact.


41.
If any Nisg̱a'a artifact discovered in British Columbia outside Nisg̱a'a
Lands and Category A lands comes into the permanent possession, or under
the control, of British Columbia, British Columbia will lend the
artifact to the Nisg̱a'a Nation in accordance with any agreements
negotiated under paragraph 31 or 34, and British Columbia may transfer
the artifact to the Nisg̱a'a Nation.


42.
If any Nisg̱a'a artifact discovered outside Nisg̱a'a Lands and Category A
lands comes into the permanent possession, or under the control, of
Canada, Canada may lend the artifact to the Nisg̱a'a Nation in accordance
with any agreements negotiated with the Nisg̱a'a Nation, and Canada may
transfer the artifact to Nisg̱a'a Nation.



HUMAN REMAINS


43.
Subject to federal and provincial laws, any human remains of individuals
of Nisg̱a'a ancestry that are removed from a heritage site will be
delivered to the Nisg̱a'a Nation.




CHAPTER 18


LOCAL AND REGIONAL GOVERNMENT RELATIONSHIPS


1.
For purposes of representation of residents of Nisg̱a'a Lands on the
board of the Regional District of Kitimat-Stikine, from the effective
date, Nisg̱a'a Lands is part of Electoral Area "A" in the Regional
District of Kitimat-Stikine.


2.
Residents of Nisg̱a'a Lands have the right to vote in elections and
referenda of the Regional District of Kitimat-Stikine in accordance with
provincial legislation.


3.
British Columbia will consult with the Nisg̱a'a Nation before altering
the boundaries of Electoral Area "A" in the Regional District of
Kitimat-Stikine.


4.
British Columbia will not make any changes to electoral area boundaries
which would result in Nisg̱a'a Lands being in more than one electoral
area, without the consent of the Nisg̱a'a Nation.


5.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation and each Nisg̱a'a Village, or any of them, may enter
into agreements with the Regional District of Kitimat-Stikine respecting
the cost of services and the payment for the delivery of:


a. Regional District of Kitimat-Stikine services on Nisg̱a'a Lands; and


b. Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government or Nisg̱a'a Village Government services to
the Regional District of Kitimat-Stikine.


6.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation and the Regional District of Kitimat-Stikine may
enter into agreements to coordinate their activities with respect to
common areas of responsibility such as planning, health services, and
infrastructure development.


7.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government and the Regional District of Kitimat-Stikine
will meet, at the request of either of them, to discuss matters of
mutual interest.




CHAPTER 19


DISPUTE RESOLUTION



DEFINITIONS


1.
In this Chapter and in Appendix M-1 to M-6:


"Appendix"
means Appendix M-1, M-2, M-3, M-4, M-5, or M-6 to this Agreement.



GENERAL


2.
In this Chapter, and in each Appendix, a Party is deemed to be directly
engaged in a disagreement if another Party, acting reasonably, gives the
first Party a written notice requiring it to participate in a process
described in this Chapter to resolve the disagreement.


3.
The Parties share the following objectives:


a. to cooperate with each other to develop harmonious working
relationships;


b. to prevent, or, alternatively, to minimize disagreements;


c. to identify disagreements quickly and resolve them in the most
expeditious and cost-effective manner possible; and


d. to resolve disagreements in a non-adversarial, collaborative, and
informal atmosphere.


4.
Except as otherwise provided, participating Parties may agree to vary a
procedural requirement contained in this Chapter, or in an Appendix, as
it applies to a particular disagreement.


5.
Participating Parties may agree to, and the Supreme Court of British
Columbia, on application, may order:

a. the abridgment of a time limit; or

b. the extension of a time limit, despite the expiration of that time
limit

in this Chapter or in an Appendix.


SCOPE: WHEN THIS CHAPTER APPLIES TO A DISAGREEMENT


6.
This Chapter is not intended to apply to all conflicts or disputes
between or among the Parties, but is limited to the conflicts or
disputes described in paragraph 7.


7.
This Chapter only applies to:

a. a conflict or dispute respecting:

i. the interpretation, application, or implementation of this Agreement,
or


ii. a breach or anticipated breach of this Agreement;


b. a conflict or dispute, where provided for in this Agreement; or


c. negotiations required to be conducted under any provision of this
Agreement that provides that the Parties, or any of them, "will
negotiate and attempt to reach agreement".


8.
This Chapter does not apply to:


a. an agreement between or among the Parties that is ancillary,
subsequent, or supplemental to this Agreement unless the Parties have
agreed that this Chapter applies to that agreement;

b. the Implementation Plan; or

c. conflicts or disputes, where excluded from this Chapter.


9.
Nothing in this Chapter limits the application of a dispute resolution
process, under any law of general application, to a conflict or dispute
involving a person if that conflict or dispute is not a disagreement.


10.
Nothing in any law of general application limits the right of a Party to
refer a disagreement to this Chapter.



DISAGREEMENTS TO GO THROUGH STAGES


11.
The Parties desire and expect that most disagreements will be resolved
by informal discussions between or among the Parties, without the
necessity of invoking this Chapter.


12.
Except as otherwise provided, disagreements not resolved informally will
progress, until resolved, through the following stages:


a. Stage One: formal, unassisted efforts to reach agreement between or
among the Parties, in collaborative negotiations under Appendix M-1;


b. Stage Two: structured efforts to reach agreement between or among the
Parties with the assistance of a neutral, who has no authority to
resolve the dispute, in a facilitated process under Appendix M-2, M-3,
M-4, or M-5 as applicable; and


c. Stage Three: final adjudication in arbitral proceedings under
Appendix M-6, or in judicial proceedings.


13.
Except as otherwise provided, no Party may refer a disagreement to final
adjudication in Stage Three without first proceeding through Stage One
and a facilitated process in Stage Two as required in this Chapter.


14.
Nothing in this Chapter prevents a Party from commencing arbitral or
judicial proceedings at any time:


a. to prevent the loss of a right to commence proceedings due to the
expiration of a limitation period; or


b. to obtain interlocutory or interim relief that is otherwise available
pending resolution of the disagreement under this Chapter.



STAGE ONE: COLLABORATIVE NEGOTIATIONS


15.
If a disagreement is not resolved by informal discussion, and a Party
directly engaged in the disagreement wishes to invoke this Chapter, that
Party will deliver a written notice, as required under Appendix M-1, as
soon as practicable to the other Parties, requiring the commencement of
collaborative negotiations.


16.
Upon receiving the notice under paragraph 15, a Party directly engaged
in the disagreement will participate in the collaborative negotiations.


17.
A Party not directly engaged in the disagreement may participate in the
collaborative negotiations by giving written notice to the other
Parties, preferably before the collaborative negotiations commence.


18.
If the Parties have commenced negotiations in the circumstances
described in subparagraph 7 (c), then, for all purposes under this
Chapter, those negotiations will be deemed collaborative negotiations
and the particular matter under negotiation will be considered a
disagreement.


19.
Collaborative negotiations terminate in the circumstances set out in
Appendix M-1.



STAGE TWO: FACILITATED PROCESSES


20.
Within 15 days of termination of collaborative negotiations that have
not resolved the disagreement, a Party directly engaged in a
disagreement, by delivering a notice to the other Parties, may require
the commencement of a facilitated process.


21.
A notice under paragraph 20:


a. will include the name of the Party or Parties directly engaged in the
disagreement and a summary of the particulars of the disagreement; and


b. may propose the use of a particular facilitated process described in
paragraph 24.


22.
Upon receiving a notice under paragraph 20, a Party directly engaged in
the disagreement will participate in a facilitated process described in
paragraph 24.


23.
A Party not directly engaged in the disagreement may participate in the
facilitated process by giving written notice to the other Parties within
15 days of delivery of a notice under paragraph 20.


24.
Within 30 days after delivery of a notice under paragraph 20, the
Parties directly engaged in the disagreement will attempt to agree to
use one of the following processes:

a. mediation under Appendix M-2;
b. technical advisory panel under Appendix M-3;
c. neutral evaluation under Appendix M-4;

d. elders advisory council under Appendix M-5; or


e. any other non-binding dispute resolution process assisted by a
neutral


and if they fail to agree, they will be deemed to have selected
mediation under Appendix M-2.


25.
A facilitated process terminates:


a. in the circumstances set out in the applicable Appendix; or


b. as agreed by the participating Parties, if an Appendix does not
apply.



NEGOTIATING CONDITIONS


26.
In order to enhance the prospect of reaching agreement, the Parties
participating in collaborative negotiations or a negotiation component
of a facilitated process will:


a. at the request of a participating Party, provide timely disclosure of
sufficient information and documents to enable a full examination of the
subject matter being negotiated;


b. make every reasonable effort to appoint negotiating representatives
with sufficient authority to reach an agreement, or with ready access to
such authority; and

c. negotiate in good faith.


SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT


27.
Any agreement reached in a process under this Chapter:

a. will be:
i. recorded in writing,

ii. signed by authorized representatives of the Parties to the
agreement, and

iii. delivered to all Parties; and

b. is binding only on the Parties who have signed the agreement.



STAGE THREE: ADJUDICATION — ARBITRATION


28.
After the later of termination of collaborative negotiations, or of a
required facilitated process, in respect of a disagreement arising out
of any provision of this Agreement that provides that a matter will be
"finally determined by arbitration", the disagreement will, on the
delivery of a notice by a Party directly engaged in the disagreement, to
all Parties as required under Appendix M-6, be referred to and finally
resolved by arbitration in accordance with that Appendix.


29.
After the later of termination of collaborative negotiations, or a
required facilitated process, in respect of any disagreement, other than
a disagreement referred to in paragraph 28, and with the written
agreement of all Parties directly engaged in the disagreement, the
disagreement will be referred to, and finally resolved by, arbitration
in accordance with Appendix M-6.


30.
If two Parties make a written agreement under paragraph 29, they will
deliver a copy of the agreement as soon as practicable to the other
Party.


31.
Upon delivering a written notice to the participating Parties to the
arbitration within 15 days after receiving a notice under paragraph 28
or copy of a written agreement under paragraph 30, a Party not directly
engaged in the disagreement is entitled to be, and will be added as, a
party to the arbitration of that disagreement whether or not that Party
has participated in collaborative negotiations or a required facilitated
process.


32.
Despite paragraph 31, an arbitral tribunal may make an order adding a
Party as a participating Party at any time, if the arbitral tribunal
considers that:


a. the participating Parties will not be unduly prejudiced; or


b. the issues stated in the pleadings are materially different from
those identified in the notice to arbitrate under paragraph 28 or the
written agreement to arbitrate in paragraph 29


and, in that event, the arbitral tribunal may make any order it
considers appropriate or necessary in the circumstances respecting
conditions, including the payment of costs, upon which the Party may be
added.



EFFECT OF ARBITRAL AWARD


33.
An arbitral award is final and binding on all Parties whether or not a
Party has participated in the arbitration.


34.
Despite paragraph 33, an arbitral award is not binding on a Party that
has not participated in the arbitration if:

a. the Party did not receive copies of:

i. the notice of arbitration or agreement to arbitrate, or


ii. the pleadings and any amendments or supplements to the pleadings; or


b. the arbitral tribunal refused to add the Party as a participating
Party to the arbitration under paragraph 32.



APPLICATION OF LEGISLATION


35.
No legislation of any Party respecting arbitration, except the
settlement legislation, applies to an arbitration conducted under this
Chapter.


36.
A court must not intervene or offer assistance in an arbitration or
review an arbitral award under this Chapter except as provided in
Appendix M-6.



STAGE THREE: ADJUDICATION — JUDICIAL PROCEEDINGS


37.
Nothing in this Chapter creates a cause of action where none otherwise
exists.


38.
Subject to paragraph 39, at any time a Party may commence proceedings in
the Supreme Court of British Columbia in respect of a disagreement.


39.
A Party may not commence judicial proceedings in respect of a
disagreement if the disagreement:


a. is required to be referred to arbitration under paragraph 28 or has
been agreed to be referred to arbitration under paragraph 29;


b. has not been referred to collaborative negotiations or a facilitated
process as required under this Chapter; or


c. has been referred to collaborative negotiations or a facilitated
process that has not yet been terminated.


40.
Nothing in subparagraph 39 (a) prevents an arbitral tribunal or the
participating Parties from requesting the Supreme Court of British
Columbia to make a ruling respecting a question of law as permitted in
Appendix M-6.



NOTICE TO PARTIES


41.
If, in any judicial or administrative proceeding, an issue arises in
respect of:


a. the interpretation or validity of this Agreement; or

b. the validity, or applicability of:
i. any settlement legislation, or
ii. any Nisg̱a'a law

the issue will not be decided until the party raising the issue has
properly served notice on the Attorney General of British Columbia, the
Attorney General of Canada, and Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government.


42.
In any judicial or administrative proceeding to which paragraph 41
applies, the Attorney General of British Columbia, the Attorney General
of Canada, and Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may appear and participate in
the proceedings as parties with the same rights as any other party.



COSTS


43.
Except as provided otherwise in the Appendices, each participating Party
will bear the costs of its own participation, representation, and
appointments in collaborative negotiations, a facilitated process, or an
arbitration, conducted under this Chapter.


44.
Subject to paragraph 43 and except as provided otherwise in the
Appendices, the participating Parties will share equally all costs of
collaborative negotiations, a facilitated process, or an arbitration,
conducted under this Chapter.


45.
For purposes of paragraph 44,
"costs"
include:

a. fees of the neutrals;
b. costs of hearing and meeting rooms;

c. actual and reasonable costs of communications, accommodation, meals,
and travel of the neutrals;


d. costs of required secretarial and administrative support for the
neutrals, as permitted in the Appendices; and


e. administration fees of a neutral appointing authority.




CHAPTER 20


ELIGIBILITY AND ENROLMENT



ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA


1.
An individual is eligible to be enrolled under this Agreement if that
individual is:


a. of Nisg̱a'a ancestry and their mother was born into one of the Nisg̱a'a
tribes;


b. a descendant of an individual described in subparagraphs 1 (a) or 1
(c);


c. an adopted child of an individual described in subparagraphs 1 (a) or
1 (b); or


d. an aboriginal individual who is married to someone described in
subparagraphs 1 (a), (b), or (c) and has been adopted by one of the four
Nisg̱a'a tribes in accordance with
Ayuukhl
Nisg̱a'a, that is, the individual has been accepted by a Nisg̱a'a tribe,
as a member of that tribe, in the presence of witnesses from the other
Nisg̱a'a tribes at a settlement or stone moving feast.


2.
Enrolment under this Agreement does not:


a. confer or deny rights of entry into Canada, Canadian citizenship, the
right to be registered as an Indian under the
Indian Act
, or any of the rights or benefits under the
Indian Act
; or


b. except as set out in this Agreement or in any federal or provincial
law, impose any obligation on Canada or British Columbia to provide
rights or benefits.



OTHER LAND CLAIMS AGREEMENTS


3.
An individual who is enrolled under another land claims agreement in
Canada may not at the same time be enrolled under this Agreement.


4.
An individual enrolled under another land claims agreement in Canada may
apply to enrol under this Agreement, but if their application succeeds
that individual must withdraw from enrolment under the other land claims
agreement.


5.
If the Enrolment Committee determines that an individual who is enrolled
under another land claims agreement in Canada meets the eligibility
criteria, the individual will be conditionally enrolled, and the
individual's enrolment will be effective when the individual ceases to
be enrolled under the other land claims agreement.


6.
If an individual who has been conditionally enrolled does not, within 60
days after receiving written notification by the Enrolment Committee,
demonstrate that they have ceased to be enrolled under the other land
claims agreement, the Enrolment Committee will remove that individual's
name from the enrolment register.



APPLICANTS


7.
An individual may:


a. apply to the Enrolment Committee for enrolment;


b. appeal a decision of the Enrolment Committee to the Enrolment Appeal
Board; or


c. seek judicial review of a decision of the Enrolment Appeal Board


on their own behalf, or on behalf of a minor, or an adult whose affairs
they have the legal authority to manage.



ENROLMENT COMMITTEE


8.
The Enrolment Committee is a committee established by the General
Executive Board of the Nisg̱a'a Tribal Council and governed by enrolment
rules adopted by the General Executive Board of the Nisg̱a'a Tribal
Council.


9.
The Enrolment Committee comprises eight Nisg̱a'a individuals, as follows:


a. two members from the
Laxsgiik
(Eagle) tribe, as selected by that tribe;


b. two members from the

Gis
k
'aast

(Killer whale) tribe, as selected by that tribe;


c. two members from the

G
anada

(Raven) tribe, as selected by that tribe; and


d. two members from the
Laxgibuu
(Wolf) tribe, as selected by that tribe


each of whom must understand

Ayuu
k
hl

Nisg̱a'a, Nisg̱a'a culture, Nisg̱a'a ancestry, Nisg̱a'a tribes, and Nisg̱a'a
community institutions, and must reside in a Nisg̱a'a Village.


10.
During the initial enrolment period, the Nisg̱a'a Tribal Council or the
Nisg̱a'a Nation, as the case may be, will notify Canada and British
Columbia of the names of the individuals appointed to the Enrolment
Committee.


11.
During the initial enrolment period, the Enrolment Committee will:

a. consider each application and:

i. enrol each applicant who demonstrates that they meet the eligibility
criteria, and


ii. refuse to enrol each applicant who does not demonstrate that they
meet the eligibility criteria;


b. establish and maintain, as a public document, an enrolment register
containing the name of each individual who is enrolled;


c. take reasonable steps to publish the enrolment rules and the
eligibility criteria;


d. provide an application form to any individual who wishes to apply for
enrolment;


e. provide written notification to each applicant of its decision in
respect of their application, and if enrolment is refused, include
written reasons for that decision;


f. provide a copy of the notification referred to in subparagraph 11
(e), including any reasons, to the Nisg̱a'a Tribal Council or the Nisg̱a'a
Nation, as the case may be, and to Canada;


g. upon request, provide in confidence a Party or the Enrolment Appeal
Board with information in respect of an individual's enrolment
application;


h. add names to, or delete names from, the enrolment register in
accordance with this Chapter;


i. subject to this Chapter, keep information provided by and about
applicants confidential; and


j. provide a copy of the enrolment register to the Parties each year and
at other times on request.


12.
In addition to the functions set out in paragraph 11, before the
completion of the referendum in respect of this Agreement under
paragraph 2 of the Ratification Chapter, the Enrolment Committee will:


a. provide the Ratification Committee with the name of each individual
who is enrolled, and any other information requested by the Ratification
Committee; and


b. if the Enrolment Committee forms the opinion that an applicant will
be refused enrolment, provide the applicant with a reasonable
opportunity to present further information or representations, in
accordance with the enrolment rules.


13.
Each applicant has the burden of proving to the Enrolment Committee that
they meet the eligibility criteria.


14.
Subject to this Chapter, all decisions of the Enrolment Committee are
final and binding.


15.
The Enrolment Committee may, before an appeal of a decision is
commenced, vary the decision on the basis of new information, if it
considers the decision was in error.


16.
If the Enrolment Committee does not make a decision in respect of an
application for enrolment within the time established in the enrolment
rules, the application will be deemed to be refused.




APPLICATION TO REMOVE APPLICANTS FROM ENROLMENT REGISTER



17.
If a Nisg̱a'a participant, or an individual having legal authority to
manage the affairs of a Nisg̱a'a participant, applies to have the Nisg̱a'a
participant's name removed from the enrolment register, the Enrolment
Committee will remove the Nisg̱a'a participant's name and will notify the
individual who made that application.



ENROLMENT APPEAL BOARD


Appeals


18.
An applicant, a Party, or a Nisg̱a'a Village may appeal to the Enrolment
Appeal Board any decision of the Enrolment Committee made under
subparagraph 11 (a) or paragraph 15.


Establishment of Enrolment Appeal Board


19.
On the effective date, the Nisg̱a'a Nation and Canada will establish the
Enrolment Appeal Board consisting of three members. The Nisg̱a'a Nation
and Canada will each appoint one member and will jointly appoint a
chairperson.


20.
The Enrolment Appeal Board will:

a. establish its own procedures and time limits;

b. hear and determine each appeal brought under paragraph 18 and decide
whether the applicant will be enrolled;


c. conduct its hearings in public unless it determines in a particular
case that there are reasons for confidentiality that outweigh the public
interest in having an open hearing; and


d. provide written reasons for its decision to the appellant, the
applicant and the Parties.


21.
The Enrolment Appeal Board:


a. by summons, may require any individual to appear before the Enrolment
Appeal Board as a witness and produce any relevant document in their
possession; and


b. may direct a witness to answer on oath or solemn affirmation
questions posed to the witness.


22.
A judge of the Supreme Court of British Columbia, on application by the
Enrolment Appeal Board, may enforce a summons or direction made under
paragraph 21.


23.
An applicant, a Party, a Nisg̱a'a Village or a witness appearing before
the Enrolment Appeal Board may be represented by counsel or agent.


24.
No action lies or may be instituted against the Enrolment Appeal Board,
or any member of the Enrolment Appeal Board, for anything said or done,
or omitted to be said or done, in good faith in the performance, or
intended performance, of a duty or in the exercise or intended exercise
of a power under this Chapter.


25.
Subject to paragraphs 26 to 29, all decisions of the Enrolment Appeal
Board are final and binding.



JUDICIAL REVIEW


26.
An applicant, a Party, or a Nisg̱a'a Village may apply to the Supreme
Court of British Columbia to review and set aside a decision of the
Enrolment Appeal Board, on the grounds that the Enrolment Appeal Board
acted without jurisdiction, acted beyond its jurisdiction, refused to
exercise its jurisdiction, failed to observe procedural fairness, erred
in law, or based its decision on an erroneous finding of fact that it
made in a perverse or capricious manner, or without regard for the
material before it.


27.
On an application for judicial review, the Court may either dismiss the
application or set aside the decision and refer the matter back to the
Enrolment Appeal Board for determination in accordance with any
directions that the Court considers appropriate.


28.
If the Enrolment Appeal Board fails to hear or decide an appeal within a
reasonable time, an applicant, a Party, or a Nisg̱a'a Village may apply
to the Supreme Court of British Columbia for an order directing the
Enrolment Appeal Board to hear or decide the appeal in accordance with
any directions that the Court considers appropriate.


29.
An applicant, a Party, or a Nisg̱a'a Village may apply for judicial
review within 60 days of receiving notification of the decision of the
Enrolment Appeal Board or a longer time determined by the Court.



FUNDING


30.
During the initial enrolment period, Canada and British Columbia will
pay the costs of the Enrolment Committee and the Enrolment Appeal Board
as set out in the "Eligibility and Enrolment Funding Agreement for a
Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement" dated October 23, 1997.




DISSOLUTION OF ENROLMENT COMMITTEE AND ENROLMENT APPEAL BOARD



31.
The Enrolment Committee and the Enrolment Appeal Board will be dissolved
when they have made a decision in respect of every application or appeal
made or commenced before the end of their respective initial enrolment
period.


32.
On dissolution, the Enrolment Committee and Enrolment Appeal Board will
provide their records to Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government.



NISG̱A'A NATION RESPONSIBILITIES FOR ENROLMENT


33.
Subject to the funding agreement referred to in paragraph 30, after the
initial enrolment period the Nisg̱a'a Nation will:


a. be responsible for an enrolment process and the administrative costs
of that process;

b. maintain the enrolment register;

c. provide a copy of the enrolment register to Canada and British
Columbia each year or as they request; and


d. provide information concerning enrolment to Canada and British
Columbia as they request.




CHAPTER 21


IMPLEMENTATION


1.
On the effective date, the Parties will establish an Implementation Plan
to guide the Parties on the implementation of this Agreement.


2.
The Implementation Plan will be for a term of 10 years, commencing on
the effective date.


3.
The Implementation Plan:


a. identifies obligations and activities arising from this Agreement;


b. identifies the manner in which the Parties anticipate fulfilling
those obligations and undertaking those activities;


c. contains guidelines for the operation of the Implementation Committee
established under this Chapter;


d. includes a communication strategy in respect of the implementation
and content of this Agreement;


e. provides for the preparation of annual reports on the implementation
of this Agreement; and


f. addresses other matters agreed to by the Parties.


4.
The Implementation Plan:

a. is not part of this Agreement;

b. is not intended to be a treaty or land claims agreement, and it is
not intended to recognize or affirm aboriginal or treaty rights, within
the meaning of sections 25 or 35 of the
Constitution Act, 1982
;

c. does not create legal obligations;

d. does not alter any rights or obligations set out in this Agreement;


e. does not preclude any Party from asserting that rights or obligations
exist under this Agreement even though they are not referred to in the
Implementation Plan; and


f. is not to be used to interpret this Agreement.



IMPLEMENTATION COMMITTEE


5.
On the effective date, the Parties will establish the Implementation
Committee for a term of 10 years:


a. to provide a forum for the Parties to discuss the implementation of
this Agreement; and


b. before the tenth anniversary of the effective date, to advise the
Parties on the further implementation of this Agreement.




CHAPTER 22


RATIFICATION



GENERAL


1.
Ratification of this Agreement by the Parties in accordance with this
Chapter is a condition precedent to the validity of this Agreement and,
unless so ratified, this Agreement has no force or effect.



RATIFICATION BY THE NISG̱A'A NATION


2.
Ratification of this Agreement by the Nisg̱a'a Nation requires:


a. debate at an assembly of the Nisg̱a'a Nation called to consider this
Agreement and to determine whether to refer it to a referendum;


b. proposal at that assembly of a motion to refer this Agreement to a
referendum;


c. adoption of that motion by a simple majority of those voting on that
motion;


d. conduct, by the Ratification Committee, of the referendum referred to
in paragraph 5; and


e. that in that referendum, a simple majority of eligible voters vote in
favour of entering into this Agreement.


3.
All votes cast in a referendum under this Chapter will be by secret
ballot.


Ratification Committee


4.
The Ratification Committee is a committee established by the General
Executive Board of the Nisg̱a'a Tribal Council and governed by rules
adopted by the General Executive Board of the Nisg̱a'a Tribal Council. It
includes a representative of Canada, selected by the Minister of Indian
Affairs and Northern Development, and a representative of British
Columbia.


5.
Conduct of the referendum by the Ratification Committee requires the
following steps:


a. preparing and publishing a preliminary list of voters based on the
information provided by the Enrolment Committee under paragraph 12 of
the Eligibility and Enrolment Chapter;


b. taking reasonable steps to provide the opportunity for the Nisg̱a'a
Nation to review this Agreement;


c. preparing and publishing an official voters list at least 14 days
before the first day of general voting in the referendum by:


i. determining whether or not each individual whose name is provided to
it by the Enrolment Committee is eligible to vote, and


ii. including on that list the name of each individual whom the
Ratification Committee determines to be eligible to vote in accordance
with paragraph 6;

d. updating the official voters list by:

i. at any time before the end of general voting, adding to the official
voters list the name of each individual whom the Ratification Committee
determines to be eligible to vote in accordance with paragraph 6,


ii. adding to the official voters list the name of each individual who
votes in accordance with paragraph 7 and whose vote counts in accordance
with paragraph 8,


iii. removing from the official voters list the name of each individual
who died on or before the last day of voting without having voted in the
referendum, and


iv. removing from the official voters list the name of each individual
who did not vote in the referendum and who provides, within seven days
of the last scheduled day of voting in the referendum, certification by
a qualified medical practitioner that the individual was physically or
mentally incapacitated to the point that they could not have voted on
the dates set for general voting;

e. approving the form and content of the ballot;

f. authorizing and providing general direction to voting officers;


g. conducting the vote on a day or days determined by the Ratification
Committee; and

h. counting the vote.

Eligible Voters


6.
An individual is eligible to vote in the referendum if that individual:


a. has been enrolled by the Enrolment Committee as a Nisg̱a'a participant
in accordance with the eligibility criteria set out in paragraph 1 of
the Eligibility and Enrolment Chapter;


b. will be at least 18 years of age on the last scheduled day of voting
for the referendum referred to in paragraph 5;

c. is ordinarily resident in Canada; and

d. is not enrolled in any other land claims agreement in Canada.


7.
An individual who is eligible to vote under paragraph 6, but whose name
is not included on the official voters list, may vote in the referendum
if that individual:


a. provides the voting officer with a completed enrolment application
form or evidence satisfactory to the voting officer that the individual
has submitted an enrolment application form to the Enrolment Committee;


b. provides evidence satisfactory to the voting officer that the
individual meets the requirements set out in subparagraphs 6 (b) and
(c); and

c. declares in writing that they:

i. meet the eligibility criteria set out in paragraph 1 of the
Eligibility and Enrolment Chapter, and


ii. are not enrolled in any other land claims agreement in Canada.


8.
The ballot of an individual who votes under paragraph 7 counts in
determining the outcome of the referendum only if the Ratification
Committee determines that the individual is enrolled by the Enrolment
Committee and meets the criteria set out in subparagraphs 6 (b), (c),
and (d).


Costs


9.
Canada and British Columbia will pay the costs of the Ratification
Committee as set out in the "Ratification Funding Agreement for a
Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement" entered into by the Parties on March 31, 1998.



RATIFICATION BY CANADA


10.
Ratification of this Agreement by Canada requires:


a. that this Agreement be signed by a Minister of the Crown authorized
by the Governor in Council; and


b. the enactment of federal settlement legislation giving effect to this
Agreement.



RATIFICATION BY BRITISH COLUMBIA


11.
Ratification of this Agreement by British Columbia requires:


a. that this Agreement be signed by a Minister of the Crown authorized
by the Lieutenant Governor in Council; and


b. the enactment of provincial settlement legislation giving effect to
this Agreement.



ADOPTION OF THE NISG̱A'A CONSTITUTION


12.
Adoption of the Nisg̱a'a Constitution requires the support of at least
70% of those eligible voters who vote in a referendum on the Nisg̱a'a
Constitution.




MAP OF NISG̱A'A LANDS








Link to Large Map



Appendix Table of Contents






Appendix — Introduction






Appendix A — Nisg̱a'a Lands






Appendix A-1




Map of Index of Map Sheets of Nisg̱a'a Lands






Appendix A-2




32 Map Sheets of Nisg̱a'a Lands






Appendix A-3




Metes and bounds description of Nisg̱a'a Lands






Appendix A-4





List of Former Nisg̱a'a Indian reserves on Nisg̱a'a Lands







Appendix B — Exceptions to Nisg̱a'a Lands






Appendix B-1





Land in the vicinity of Red Bluff that has been set apart as
Indian Reserve No. 88







Appendix B-2





Fee Simple parcels within the boundaries of Nisg̱a'a Lands







Appendix B-3





Woodlot Licence and Agriculture Leases within the boundaries
of Nisg̱a'a Lands







Appendix B-4





Roads associated with the fee simple parcels referred to in
Appendix B-2







Appendix C — Interests on Nisg̱a'a Lands






Appendix C-1




Interests on Nisg̱a'a Lands





Part 1


Existing Interests




Part 2



Public utility transmission and distribution facilities





Part 3


Roads





Appendix C-2





Applicable forms of document for existing interests listed in
Part 1 of Appendix C-1






Document 1



Licence of Occupation for Communication Site





Document 2



Licence of Occupation for Provincial Communication Site





Document 3



Licence of Occupation for Communication Site with Utility Access





Document 4



Licence of Occupation for Communication Site with Road Access





Document 5



Licence of Occupation for Communication Site with Road Access
and Utility Access





Document 6



Licence of Occupation for Hydro Communication Site





Document 7



Licence of Occupation for Forestry Experimental Plots





Document 8



Licence of Occupation for a Hydrometric Station





Document 9



Licence of Occupation for a Navigational Light





Document 10



Licence of Occupation for Telephone Exchange





Document 11



Permit of Occupation for Waterworks





Document 12



Special Use Permit for Forestry Operations





Document 13


Leases (not published)





Appendix C-3





Applicable forms of document for Public Utility transmission
and distribution facilities listed in Part 2 of Appendix C-1






Document 1



Grant of Right of Way and Licence for Public Utility Works to
British Columbia Hydro and Power Authority (Hydro)





Document 2



Grant of Right of Way and Licence for Telecommunications to BC
TEL






Appendix C-4





Applicable forms of document for Roads listed in Part 3 of
Appendix C-1






Document 1



Grant of Right of Way for Secondary Provincial Roads;





Document 2



Grant of Private Road Easement; and





Document 3



Grant of Right of Way for Access Roads to British Columbia Hydro
and Power Authority (Hydro).






Appendix C-5





Certificates of Possession issued by Canada on former Nisg̱a'a
Indian reserves on Nisg̱a'a Lands







Appendix C-6





Persons with an interest authorized by Band Council Resolution
on former Nisg̱a'a Indian reserves on Nisg̱a'a Lands







Appendix C-7





Angling guide licences, trapline licences and guide outfitter
licence wholly or partially on Nisg̱a'a Lands








Appendix D — Nisg̱a'a Fee Simple Lands Outside Nisg̱a'a Lands







Appendix D-1




Map of Category A and B Lands






Appendix D-2




Category A Lands






Appendix D-3




Sketches of Category A Lands






Appendix D-4





List of estates, interests, charges, mineral claims,
encumbrances, licences, and permits located on Category A
Lands







Appendix D-5





Sketches showing the location of active mineral claims on
Category A Lands







Appendix D-6




Category B Lands






Appendix D-7




Sketches of Category B Lands






Appendix D-8





List of estates, interests, charges, mineral claims,
encumbrances, licences and permits located on Category B Lands








Appendix E — Map of Nisg̱a'a Commercial Recreation Tenure








Map showing operating areas of the Nisg̱a'a Commercial Recreation
Tenure







Appendix F — Heritage Sites and Key Geographic Features







Appendix F-1





Sites of cultural and historic significance to the Nisg̱a'a
Nation to be designated as provincial heritage sites







Appendix F-2





Names to be recorded in the British Columbia Geographic Names
Information System







Appendix F-3




Place names to be changed by British Columbia






Appendix G — Parks and Ecological Reserve






Appendix G-1





Map and metes and bounds description of Anhluut'ukwsim Laxmihl
Angwinga'asanskwhl Nisg̱a'a (a.k.a. Nisg̱a'a Memorial Lava Bed
Park)







Appendix G-2





Map and metes and bounds description of Gingietl Creek
Ecological Reserve No. 115







Appendix G-3





Map and metes and bounds description of Bear Glacier Park








Appendix H — Transitional Provisions for Forest Resources






Schedule 1



Map of Forestry Transition period planning criteria for forest
development plans







Appendix I — Maps of Nass Area and Areas for Bivalve
Harvesting







Appendix I-1





Map of Nass Area with general location of Intertidal Zones for
Bivalve Harvesting







Appendix I-2





Map of Observatory Inlet Bivalve Harvesting Area







Appendix I-3




Map of Nasoga'a Gulf Bivalve Harvesting Area






Appendix I-4




Map of Winter Inlet Bivalve Harvesting Area






Appendix J — Nass Wildlife Area






Appendix K — Map of Guide Outfitter Area









Map of Guide Outfitter Area with the general location of the
Nisg̱a'a Commercial Recreation Tenure Areas






Appendix L — Cultural Artifacts and Heritage






Appendix L-1





Nisg̱a'a Artifacts to be transferred from the Canadian Museum
of Civilization to the Nisg̱a'a Nation







Appendix L-2





Nisg̱a'a Artifacts to be shared by the Canadian Museum of
Civilization and the Nisg̱a'a Nation







Appendix L-3





Nisg̱a'a Artifacts to be transferred from the Royal British
Columbia Museum to the Nisg̱a'a Nation







Appendix L-4





Nisg̱a'a Artifacts to be held by the Royal British Columbia
Museum







Appendix M — Dispute Resolution






Appendix M-1




Collaborative Negotiations






Appendix M-2




Mediation






Appendix M-3




Technical Advisory Panel






Appendix M-4




Neutral Evaluation






Appendix M-5




Elders Advisory Council






Appendix M-6




Arbitration








MAP OF NISG̱A'A LANDS

AND

APPENDICES


INTRODUCTION


These appendices form part of the Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement entered into
between:

the Nisg̱a'a Nation;

Her Majesty the Queen

in Right of Canada;

and

Her Majesty the Queen

in Right of

British Columbia



APPENDIX A

NISG̱A'A LANDS






Appendix A-1



Map Index of Map Sheets of Nisg̱a'a Lands





Appendix A-2



32 Map Sheets of Nisg̱a'a Lands





Appendix A-3




Metes and bounds description of Nisg̱a'a Lands






Appendix A-4




List of former Nisg̱a'a Indian reserves on Nisg̱a'a Lands








Appendix A-1

MAP INDEX OF MAP SHEETS OF NISG̱A'A LANDS









Link to Large Map





Appendix A-2

32 MAP SHEETS OF NISG̱A'A LANDS



Map Sheet 1 — 103I. 081








Link to Large Map



Map Sheet 2 — 103I. 082








Link to Large Map



Map Sheet 3 — 103I. 083








Link to Large Map



Map Sheet 4 — 103I. 084








Link to Large Map



Map Sheet 5 — 103I. 091








Link to Large Map



Map Sheet 6 — 103I. 092








Link to Large Map



Map Sheet 7 — 103I. 093








Link to Large Map



Map Sheet 8 — 103I. 094








Link to Large Map



Map Sheet 9 — 1030. 010








Link to Large Map



Map Sheet 10 — 103P. 001








Link to Large Map



Map Sheet 11 — 103P. 002








Link to Large Map



Map Sheet 12 — 103P. 003








Link to Large Map



Map Sheet 13 — 103P. 004








Link to Large Map



Map Sheet 14 — 103P. 005








Link to Large Map



Map Sheet 15 — 103P. 011








Link to Large Map



Map Sheet 16 — 103P. 012








Link to Large Map



Map Sheet 17 — 103P. 013








Link to Large Map



Map Sheet 18 — 103P. 014








Link to Large Map



Map Sheet 19 — 103P. 015








Link to Large Map



Map Sheet 20 — 103P. 016








Link to Large Map



Map Sheet 21 — 103P. 022








Link to Large Map



Map Sheet 22 — 103P. 023








Link to Large Map



Map Sheet 23 — 103P. 024








Link to Large Map



Map Sheet 24 — 103P. 025








Link to Large Map



Map Sheet 25 — 103P. 026








Link to Large Map



Map Sheet 26 — 103P. 034








Link to Large Map



Map Sheet 27 — 103P. 035








Link to Large Map



Map Sheet 28 — 103P. 036








Link to Large Map



Map Sheet 29 — 103P. 045








Link to Large Map



Map Sheet 30 — 103P. 046








Link to Large Map



Map Sheet 31 — 103P. 055








Link to Large Map



Map Sheet 32 — 103P. 056








Link to Large Map





Appendix A-3

METES AND BOUNDS DESCRIPTION OF NISG̱A'A LANDS




All those parcels or tracts of Crown land situated within the Province
of British Columbia and lying within the following described area:



Commencing at the post set at the southwest corner of former Kincolith
Indian Reserve No. 14, Range 5 Coast District, with said post being
a point on the northerly natural boundary of Nass Bay and to be marked
number #1;


thence in a general westerly direction along the northerly natural
boundary of Nass Bay to the easterly natural boundary of Observatory
Inlet;


thence in a general northerly direction along the easterly natural
boundary of Observatory Inlet, to post number #2 which is to be set at
the intersection of the westerly prolongation of the northerly boundary
of former Scowban Indian Reserve No. 28, Cassiar District, with said
natural boundary;


thence easterly to and along the northerly boundary of former Scowban
Indian Reserve No. 28, with the posts set at the northwest and
northeast corners thereof to be marked numbers #3 and #4, respectively,
and continuing easterly along the easterly prolongation of said
northerly boundary for a distance of 1773 metres, more or less, to
post number #5 which is to be set on the ridge lying to the west of the
unnamed creek that flows in a general northwesterly direction into the
unnamed creek that passes through the southeast portion of former
Scowban Indian Reserve No. 28 flowing southwesterly into Observatory
Inlet;


thence on a bearing of 146°32'36", a distance of 2.24 kilometres,
more or less, to post number #6, which is to be set on the northwesterly
boundary of the watershed of Kincolith River;


thence northeasterly and easterly along the northwesterly and northerly
boundaries of the watershed of Kincolith River to post number #7, which
is to be set on said northerly boundary of the watershed of Kincolith
River;


thence on a bearing of 90°51'00", a distance of 5.68 kilometres,
more or less, to post number #8, which is to be set on the easterly
boundary of the watershed of Anudol Creek;


thence on a bearing of 55°00'00", a distance of 3.459 kilometres;


thence on a bearing of 41°52'00", a distance of 858 metres;


thence on a bearing of 53°11'00", a distance of 1.255 kilometres;


thence on a bearing of 64°30'00", a distance of 1.124 kilometres;


thence on a bearing of 62°05'00", a distance of 1.777 kilometres to
a post which is to be set and numbered #9;


thence on a bearing of 61°52'00", a distance of 3.064 kilometres to
a post which is to be set and numbered #10;


thence on a bearing of 61°52'00", a distance of 3.04 kilometres,
more or less, to post number #11 which is to be set on the westerly
boundary of the watershed of Chemainuk Creek;


thence in a general northerly direction along the westerly boundaries of
the watersheds of Chemainuk and Maughlin Creeks to post number #12 which
is to be set on the westerly boundary of the watershed of Maughlin
Creek;


thence on a bearing of 43°53'00", a distance of 2.32 kilometres,
more or less, to post number #13 which is to be set on the most
westerly point of the westerly natural boundary of the small unnamed
lake situated at the headwaters of the unnamed creek that flows
northeasterly through District Lot 1657 into Kwinatahl River;


thence northerly and northeasterly along the westerly and northwesterly
natural boundary of said unnamed lake and continuing northeasterly along
the left natural boundary of said unnamed creek to post number #14 which
is to be set at the junction of the natural boundary of said unnamed
creek with the right natural boundary of Kwinatahl River;


thence northeasterly in a straight line to the post set at the southwest
corner of District Lot 3098 and to be marked number #15;


thence northeasterly in a straight line to the post set at the southeast
corner of the west half of District Lot 3101 and to be marked number
#16;


thence northerly along the easterly boundary of the west half of
District Lot 3101 to the left natural boundary of Kshadin Creek;


thence easterly along the left natural boundary of Kshadin Creek to the
right natural boundary of the unnamed creek that flows southerly into
Kshadin Creek and that includes Taylor Lake within its drainage;


thence in a general northerly direction along the right natural boundary
of said unnamed creek, passing through District Lots 3101, 3104, 3110,
and 3111, to post number #17 which is to be set at the intersection of
said natural boundary with the northerly boundary of District
Lot 3111;


thence easterly along the northerly boundary of District Lot 3111 to the
northeast meander post thereof, with said meander post to be marked
number #18;


thence northwesterly in a straight line to the post set at the northwest
corner of District Lot 3119 and to be marked number #19;


thence on a bearing of 0°00'00" to post number #20 which is to be set at
a point lying on a bearing of 270°00'00" from the post set at the
southwest corner of District Lot 3160 and to be marked number #21;


thence on a bearing of 90°00'00" to post number #21 set at the southwest
corner of District Lot 3160;


thence easterly along the southerly boundary of District Lot 3160 to the
post set at the southeast corner thereof, and to be marked number #22;


thence northeasterly in a straight line to the quarter post set on the
westerly boundary of District Lot 3124, and to be marked number #23;


thence northeasterly in a straight line to the quarter post set on the
northerly boundary of District Lot 3128, and to be marked number #24;


thence northeasterly in a straight line to the quarter post set on the
northerly boundary of District Lot 3141, and to be marked number #25;


thence easterly along the northerly boundary of District Lot 3141 to
post number #26 which is to be set at the intersection of said northerly
boundary with the right natural boundary of Kinskuch River;


thence southeasterly along the right natural boundary of Kinskuch River
to the right natural boundary of Nass River;


thence southeasterly in a straight line to the post set at the northwest
corner of District Lot 4001, and to be marked number #27;


thence southerly along the westerly boundary of District Lot 4001 to the
post set at the southwest corner thereof, and to be marked number #28,
with said post being a point on the northerly boundary of District Lot
4006;


thence easterly along the northerly boundary of District Lot 4006 to the
post set at northeast corner thereof, and to be marked number #29;


thence southwesterly in a straight line to post number #30, which is to
be set at a point lying on a bearing of 90°00'00", a distance of
325 metres, from the post set at the southeast corner of District
Lot 5278, being former Kinyug Indian Reserve No. 57, and to be marked
number #31;


thence on a bearing of 270°00'00" to post number #31 set at the
southeast corner of District Lot 5278;


thence southwesterly in a straight line to the post set at the northeast
corner of the fractional southwest quarter of District Lot 4006, and to
be marked number #32;


thence southerly along the easterly boundary of the fractional southwest
quarter of District Lot 4006 to the post set at the southeast corner
thereof, and to be marked number #33;


thence southwesterly in a straight line to the quarter post set on the
easterly boundary of District Lot 3077, and to be marked number #34;


thence southeasterly in a straight line to the post set at the southeast
corner of District Lot 1763, and to be marked number #35;


thence southwesterly in a straight line to the post set at the northeast
corner of District Lot 1755, and to be marked number #36;


thence southwesterly in a straight line to the quarter post set on the
northerly boundary of District Lot 1751, and to be marked number #37;


thence southeasterly in a straight line to the post set at the northeast
corner of District Lot 1747, and to be marked number #38;


thence southerly along the easterly boundary of District Lot 1747 to the
post set at the northeast corner of District Lot 1743, and to be marked
number #39;


thence southerly along the easterly boundary of District Lot 1743 to
post number #40 which is to be set at the intersection of said easterly
boundary with the left natural boundary of Hoadley Creek;


thence in a general easterly direction along the left natural boundary
of Hoadley Creek to the westerly natural boundary of the unnamed lake at
the headwaters of Hoadley Creek;


thence southerly, easterly and northerly along the westerly, southerly
and easterly natural boundaries of said unnamed lake to post number #41
which is to be set at the most easterly point thereon;


thence on a bearing of 180°00'00", a distance of 218 metres, more or
less, to post number #42 which is to be set on the southeasterly
boundary of the watershed of Hoadley Creek;


thence in a general southwesterly direction along the southeasterly
boundary of the watershed of Hoadley Creek and continuing in a general
southerly direction along the ridge that separates those creeks that
flow westerly into Dragon Lake and Seaskinnish Creek from those that
flow easterly into Kiteen River to post number #43 which is to be set on
said ridge;


thence on a bearing of 181°32'00", a distance of 2.90 kilometres,
more or less, to post number #44 which is to be set on the easterly
boundary of the watershed of Seaskinnish Creek;


thence in a general southerly direction along the easterly boundary of
the watershed of Seaskinnish Creek to the summit of Mount Priestly,
being a point thereon;


thence southwesterly in a straight line to post number #45 which is to
be set at the summit of Mount Hoeft;


thence on a bearing of 270°00'00", a distance of 1.797 kilometres;


thence on a bearing of 123°02'00", a distance of 247 metres;


thence on a bearing of 225°46'00", a distance of 857 metres;


thence on a bearing of 141°00'00", a distance of 805 metres;


thence on a bearing of 82°14'00", a distance of 2.106 kilometres to
a post which is to be set and numbered #46;


thence on a bearing of 181°48'00", a distance of 889 metres;


thence on a bearing of 242°01'00", a distance of 2.139 kilometres;


thence on a bearing of 114°00'00", a distance of 2.03 kilometres,
more or less, to post number # 47 which is to be set on the right
natural boundary of Fulmar Creek;


thence southwesterly along the right natural boundary of Fulmar Creek to
post #48 which is to be set at the intersection of said natural boundary
with a line drawn parallel to and 600 metres perpendicularly
distant easterly from the centre line of Nisg̱a'a Highway (formerly Nass
Valley Road);


thence northwesterly along said line drawn parallel to and 600 metres
perpendicularly distant easterly from the centre line of Nisg̱a'a Highway
to the easterly boundary of District Lot 4014;


thence southerly along the easterly boundary of District Lot 4014 to the
post set at the southeast corner thereof, and to be marked post number
#49, and continuing southerly along the southerly prolongation of the
easterly boundary of District Lot 4014 produced to a point on a line
drawn parallel to and 60 metres perpendicularly distant easterly
from the right natural boundary of Tseax River;


thence in a general northwesterly direction along said line drawn
parallel to and 60 metres perpendicularly distant easterly from the
right natural boundary of Tseax River to the southerly boundary of Lot A
of District Lot 4012, Plan 9176;


thence westerly along the southerly boundary of said Lot A to the
southwest corner thereof, with said southwest corner being a point on
the right natural boundary of Tseax River;


thence in a general northerly direction along the westerly boundary of
said Lot A to the northwest corner thereof, with a portion of the
westerly boundary of said Lot A being also the right natural boundary of
Tseax River;


thence easterly along the northerly boundary of said Lot A to the most
westerly boundary of former New Aiyansh Indian Reserve No. 1, as shown
on Plan 65110 recorded in the Canada Lands Surveys Records at Ottawa;


thence northerly along the westerly boundary of former New Aiyansh
Indian Reserve No. 1 to its intersection with a line drawn parallel
to and 60 metres perpendicularly distant easterly from the right
natural boundary of Tseax River;


thence in a general northwesterly direction along said line drawn
parallel to and 60 metres perpendicularly distant easterly from the
right natural boundary of Tseax River to post number #50 which is
to be set at a point on said line which lies on a bearing of 90° 00' 00"
from the post set at the southeast corner of District Lot 5275, being
former Ksilamisk Indian Reserve No. 89, and to be marked #51;


thence on a bearing of 270°00'00" to the left natural boundary of Tseax
River;


thence northwesterly along the left natural boundary of Tseax River to
the left natural boundary of Nass River;


thence in a general southwesterly direction along the left natural
boundary of Nass River to the northeast corner of District Lot 5287,
being former Quinogag Indian Reserve No. 61;


thence southerly and westerly along the easterly and southerly
boundaries of District Lot 5287 to the southwest corner thereof, with
said corner being a point on the left natural boundary of Nass River;


thence in a general southwesterly direction along the left natural
boundary of Nass River and following the left natural boundary of the
river channel lying to the south and east of former Amatal Indian
Reserve No. 5 to the easterly boundary of former Amatal Indian Reserve
No. 6;


thence southerly and westerly along the easterly and southerly
boundaries of former Amatal Indian Reserve No. 6 to the easterly
boundary of District Lot 1094, being former Amaral Indian Reserve No.s
46 and 47 (undivided);


thence southerly and westerly along the easterly and southerly
boundaries of District Lot 1094 to the southwest corner thereof, with
said corner being a point on the left natural boundary of Nass River;


thence in a general southwesterly direction along the left natural
boundary of Nass River, to the post set at the intersection of said
natural boundary with the easterly boundary of that portion of former
Gitwinksihlkw Indian Reserve No. 7 lying to the south of Nass River, and
with said post to be marked number #52;


thence southerly along said easterly boundary of former Gitwinksihlkw
Indian Reserve No. 7, passing through the post set at the southeast
corner thereof and to be marked number #53, and continuing southerly
along the easterly boundary of District Lot 1093, being former Gwinaha
Indian Reserve No. 44, to the post set at the southeast corner thereof,
and to be marked number #54;


thence westerly along the southerly boundary of District Lot 1093 to the
post set at the southwest corner thereof, and to be marked number #55,
with said post being a point on the easterly boundary of former Zaulzap
Indian Reserve No. 29;


thence southerly and westerly along the easterly and southerly
boundaries of former Zaulzap Indian Reserve No. 29, passing through the
post set at the southeast corner thereof and to be marked number #56, to
post number #57 which is to be set at the intersection of said southerly
boundary with the left natural boundary of Zolzap Creek;


thence in a general easterly direction along the left natural boundary
of Zolzap Creek to post number #58 which is to be set at a point on said
natural boundary lying on a bearing of 143°58'00", a distance of 2.02
kilometres, more or less from the southeast corner of District
Lot 1093, being the former Gwinaha Indian Reserve No. 44;


thence on a bearing of 96°14'00", a distance of 695 metres;


thence on a bearing of 68°32'00", a distance of 1.096 kilometres to
a post which is to be set and numbered #59;


thence on a bearing of 42°39'00", a distance of 654 metres;


thence on a bearing of 330°37'00", a distance of 497 metres to a
post which is to be set and numbered #60;


thence on a bearing of 90°15'00", a distance of 2.277 kilometres;


thence on a bearing of 26°45'00", a distance of 1.083 kilometres to
a post which is to be set and numbered #61;


thence on a bearing of 330°15'00", a distance of 500 metres to a
post which is to be set and numbered #62;


thence on a bearing of 69°15'00", a distance of 2.35 kilometres, more or
less, to post number #63 which is to be set on a bearing of
270°00'00", a distance of 2.05 kilometres, from the southwest
corner of District Lot 4013, Cassiar District;


thence on a bearing of 127°15'00", a distance of 2.500 kilometres;


thence on a bearing of 90°15'00", a distance of 1.25 kilometres;


thence on a bearing of 115°08'00", a distance of 2.48 kilometres,
more or less to post number #64 which is to be set at the
intersection of the right natural boundary of an unnamed creek that
flows northeasterly into Tseax River with a line drawn parallel to and
400 metres perpendicularly distant southwesterly from the centre
line of Nisg̱a'a Highway (formerly the Nass Valley Road);


thence in a general southwesterly direction along the right natural
boundary of said unnamed creek to a post to be set thereon and numbered
#65;


thence on a bearing of 213°04'00", a distance of 3.54 kilometres,
more or less, to post number #66 which is to be set on the southerly
boundary of the watershed of Vetter Creek;


thence in a general westerly direction along the southerly boundaries of
the watersheds of Vetter and Ansedagan Creeks to post number #67 which
is to be set on the southerly boundary of the watershed of Ansedagan
Creek at a point lying on a bearing of 171°37'00", a distance of 8.26
kilometres, more or less, from the southeast corner of former Zaulzap
Indian Reserve No. 29;


thence on a bearing of 233°27'00", a distance of 2.719 kilometres,
to a post to be set and numbered #68;


thence on a bearing of 233°27'00", a distance of 3.58 kilometres,
more or less, crossing Ksemamaith Creek, to post number #69 which is to
be set on the northeasterly boundary of the watershed of Ksedin Creek;


thence southeasterly along the northeasterly boundary of the watershed
of Ksedin Creek, a distance of 2.50 kilometres to a post which is
to be set thereon and numbered #70;


thence on a bearing of 249°08'00", a distance of 877 metres to a
post which is to be set and numbered #71;


thence on a bearing of 249°08'00", a distance of 3.739 kilometres,
crossing Ksedin Creek, to a post which is to be set and numbered #72;


thence on a bearing of 249°08'00", a distance of 2.47 kilometres, more
or less to post number #73 which is to be set on the easterly
boundary of the watershed of Ginlulak Creek;


thence in a general southerly direction along the easterly boundaries of
the watersheds of Ginlulak and Voshell Creeks to the southerly boundary
of the watershed of Voshell Creek;


thence westerly along the southerly boundary of the watershed of Voshell
Creek to the easterly boundary of the watershed of Ishkheenickh River;


thence in a general southwesterly direction along the easterly boundary
of the watershed of Ishkheenickh River to a post which is to be set
thereon, and numbered #74;


thence on a bearing of 278°44'00", a distance of 1.164 kilometres
to a post to be set and numbered #75;


thence on a bearing of 278°44'00", a distance of 3.471 kilometres,
crossing Ishkheenickh River, to post number #76 which is to be set on a
bearing of 44°52'00" a distance of 1.084 kilometres, from the
northeast corner of District Lot 6435, Range 5, Coast District, being
former Lakbelak Indian Reserve No. 38;


thence on a bearing of 278°44'00", a distance of 2.48 kilometres,
more or less, to post number #77 which is to be set on the northerly
boundary of the watershed of Lachballach Creek;


thence in a general westerly direction along the northerly boundaries of
the watersheds of Lachballach Creek and Kwinamass River to the westerly
boundary of the watershed of Burton Creek;


thence northerly along the westerly boundary of the watershed of Burton
Creek to a post which is to be set thereon, and numbered #78;


thence on a bearing of 316°14'00", a distance of 1.63 kilometres,
more or less, to post number #79 which is to be set on the right natural
boundary of the northwesterly flowing unnamed tributary of Welda Creek;


thence northerly and westerly along said right natural boundary and
continuing northerly and westerly along the right natural boundary of
Welda Creek to the southerly natural boundary of Nass Bay;


thence westerly and northerly along the southerly natural boundary of
Nass Bay to post number #80 which is to be set at a point on said
natural boundary lying on a bearing of 198°33'00", a distance of
214 metres, more or less, from the northwest corner of District
Lot 6822;


thence on a bearing of 310°38'00", a distance of 7.911 kilometres;


thence northerly in a straight line to the post set at the southwest
corner of former Kincolith Indian Reserve No. 14, Range 5 Coast
District, and which is to be marked number #1, with said post being a
point on the northerly natural boundary of Nass Bay, and being also the
point of commencement, and with the official copies of plans for all
referenced posts to be filed on deposit with the Office of the Surveyor
General in Victoria, British Columbia, on completion of survey.


Excepting there out:


Firstly:
submerged lands;


Secondly:
Gingietl Ecological Reserve No. 115;


Thirdly:
the Nisg̱a'a Highway corridor; and


Fourthly:
the lands within the boundaries set out in Appendix B.




Appendix A-4

LIST OF FORMER NISG̱A'A INDIAN RESERVES

ON NISG̱A'A LANDS






Map No.


I.R. Name


No.


Legal Description


Plan*





103I. 083
Ishkseenickh River
36
D.L. 6451, Range 5 Coast
BC735


103I. 083
Ishkseenickh River
37
D.L. 6452, Range 5 Coast
BC734


103I. 091
Kincolith
14

BC137


103I. 092
Black Point
11

BC128


103I. 092
Ishkseenickh
33
D.L. 6924, Range 5 Coast
BC737


103I. 092
Lachtesk
12A
D.L. 3963, Range 5 Coast
BC674


103I. 092
Lachtesk
12

BC128


103I. 092
Lakata
41
D.L. 3964, Range 5 Coast
BC675


103I. 092
Red Cliff (Red Bluff)
13

BC137


103I. 093
Ishkseenickh River
34
D.L. 6925, Range 5 Coast
BC742


103I. 093
Ishkseenickh River
35
D.L. 6450, Range 5 Coast
BC736


103P. 001
Kincolith
14A

BC137


103P. 001
Scowban
28

BC138


103P. 002
Stoney Point (Fishery Bay)
10

includes Section 3 Block 1, Range 5 Coast

BC128


103P. 003
Andegulay
8

BC132


103P. 003
Andegulay
8A

BC132


103P. 003
Dachlabah
30

BC131


103P. 003
Ightkeany
32
District Lot 5435, Cassiar
BC730


103P. 003
Lachkaltsap
9

includes Lachkaltsap 9A Block A of D.L. 7051, Cassiar Section 2
Block 1 Range 5 Coast


BC128

BC165



103P. 013
Anyutawl
31
D.L. 1095, Cassiar
BC738


103P. 014
Gitwinksihlkw
7

BC136


103P. 014
Gwinaha
44
D.L. 1093, Cassiar
BC740


103P. 014
Zaulzap
29A

BC165


103P. 014
Zaulzap
29

BC132


103P. 015
Amaral
46 & 47
D.L. 1094, Cassiar
BC739


103P. 015
New Aiyansh
1

Block J of D.L. 4012,

S.W. 1/4 of D.L. 2626,

N.E. 1/4 of D.L. 4012,

Lot A of D.L. 4012, Plan 9176, N.W. 1/4 of D.L. 2626, except Block
A, N.E. 1/4 of D.L. 4013 and Lot A of D.L 4013, Plan PRP 14915,
all in Cassiar


59981,

59982, and 59983



103P. 015
Seaks
60
D.L. 5286, Cassiar
BC636


103P. 025
Aiyansh
87
D.L. 5313, Cassiar
BC618


103P. 025
Aiyansh
83
D.L. 5309, Cassiar
BC622


103P. 025
Aiyansh (Kitladamas)
1

BC136


103P. 025
Amatal
5

BC136


103P. 025
Amatal
6

BC136


103P. 025
Gish Creek
45
D.L. 5271, Cassiar
BC640


103P. 025
Kitladamax
1A

BC136


103P. 025
Ksilamisk
89
D.L. 5275, Cassiar
BC626


103P. 025
Kzimeng
82
D.L. 5308, Cassiar
BC623


103P. 025
Lakksgamal
86
D.L. 5312, Cassiar
BC619


103P. 025
Lakksgamal
88
D.L. 5314, Cassiar
BC617


103P. 025
Lakksgamal
85
D.L. 5311, Cassiar
BC620


103P. 025
Quinogag
61
D.L. 5287, Cassiar
BC634


103P. 025
Sanklksgamal
80
D.L. 5306, Cassiar
BC625


103P. 025
Seaks
3

BC136


103P. 025
Shumal Creek
81
D.L. 5307, Cassiar
BC624


103P. 025
Shumal Creek
84
D.L. 5310, Cassiar
BC621


103P. 025
Tsimmanweenclist
2

BC136


103P. 025
Voilnadamtk
48
D.L. 5274, Cassiar
BC627


103P. 035
Anokswok
59
D.L. 5285, Cassiar
BC637


103P. 035
Kwinamuck
49
D.L. 3133, Cassiar
BC628


103P. 045
Gwindebilk
51
D.L. 5277, Cassiar
BC629


103P. 045
Gitquinmiyaue
76
D.L. 5302, Cassiar
BC635


103P. 045
Taylor Lake
50
D.L. 5276, Cassiar
BC639


103P. 046
Gitsheoaksit
68
D.L. 5282, Cassiar
BC638


103P. 046
Gwimmauz
52
D.L. 5280, Cassiar
BC632


103P. 046
Gwinkbawueast
54
D.L. 5281, Cassiar
BC630


103P. 046
Kinyug
57
D.L. 5278, Cassiar
BC631


103P. 056
Gwingag
53
D.L. 5279, Cassiar
BC633



* These are Canada Lands Survey Records on deposit in Ottawa.








APPENDIX B

EXCEPTIONS TO NISG̱A'A LANDS







Appendix B-1




Land in the vicinity of Red Bluff that has been set apart as
Indian Reserve No. 88






Appendix B-2




Fee simple parcels within the boundaries of Nisg̱a'a Lands






Appendix B-3




Woodlot Licence and Agriculture Leases within the boundaries of
Nisg̱a'a Lands






Appendix B-4




Roads associated with the fee simple parcels referred to in
Appendix B-2








Appendix B-1

LAND IN THE VICINITY OF RED BLUFF THAT HAS BEEN

SET APART AS INDIAN RESERVE NO. 88



Map Ref: 1031.092







District Lot 3965, Range 5 Coast District, being Red Bluff Indian
Reserve Number 88, as shown on Plan BC 676 recorded in the Canada Lands
Surveys Records at Ottawa.




Appendix B-2

FEE SIMPLE PARCELS WITHIN THE

BOUNDARIES OF NISG̱A'A LANDS






Map Ref:










In Range 5 Coast District:



103I.091
District Lot 2, and




In Cassiar District:



103P.025
Block A of District Lot 453;


103P.025
Block D of District Lot 453;


103P.025
District Lot 1224;


103P.025

the East 1/2 of the Southeast 1/4 of the Fractional Southeast 1/4
of District Lot 1712;



103P.025

the East 1/2 of the Northeast 1/4 of the Fractional Southeast 1/4
of District Lot 1712;



103P.025

the Fractional North 1/2 of District Lot 1712;



103P.025

the Southwest 1/4 of the Fractional Southwest 1/4 of District Lot
1713;



103P.025

the North 1/2 of the Southwest 1/4 of District Lot 1718, except
Plan PRP13808;



103P.025

Lot A of District Lot 1718, Plan PRP13808;



103P.025

the South 1/2 of the Southwest 1/4 of District Lot 1718, except
Plans 5830 and 7486;



103P.025

Lot A of District Lot 1718, Plan 5830;



103P.025

Lot 1 of District Lot 1718, Plan 7486;



103P.025

Lot 2 of District Lot 1718, Plan 7486;



103P.025

Lot 3 of District Lot 1718, Plan 7486;



103P.025
District Lot 1720;


103P.025

Block A of the Southeast 1/4 of District Lot 1722;



103P.025
Block A of District Lot 1725;


103P.026
Block A of District Lot 1726;


103P.036
Block B of District Lot 1726;


103P.025

District Lot 1728, except Plans 4739, 5164, 5555, 6816, 8537 and
10545;



103P.025

Lot 1 of District Lot 1728, Plan 4739;



103P.025

Lot 2 of District Lot 1728, Plan 4739;



103P.025

Lot 5 of District Lot 1728, Plan 5555;



103P.025

Lot 6 of District Lot 1728, Plan 6816;



103P.025

Lot 7 of District Lot 1728, Plan 6816;



103P.025

Lot A of District Lots 1728 and 1729, Plan 8537;



103P.025

Lot 1 of District Lot 1728, Plan 10545;



103P.025

District Lot 1729, except Plans 8537 and 9553;



103P.025

Lot A of District Lot 1729, Plan 9553;



103P.025
Block A of District Lot 1730;


103P.025
Block B of District Lot 2625;


103P.025
Block C of District Lot 2625;


103P.025
Block A of District Lot 2626;


103P.015

the Southeast 1/4 of District Lot 2627, except any portion of the
right of way of the Dominion Telegraph Line having a width of 100
feet which may lie within the boundaries of the said land;



103P.015

the Fractional Southwest 1/4 of District Lot 2627, except thereout
the right of way of the Dominion Telegraph Line;



103P.025

the North 1/2 of the Northeast 1/4 of District Lot 3051;



103P.025

the South 1/2 of the Northeast 1/4 of District Lot 3051, except
Plan 12661;



103P.025
Block A of District Lot 3051;


103P.025
District Lot 3053;


103P.035

the Southeast 1/4 of District Lot 3061;



103P.035

the Southwest 1/4 of District Lot 3061;



103P.035

the Fractional Northeast 1/4 of District Lot 3063;



103P.025

the East 1/2 of District Lot 3080;



103P.046

the Fractional Southwest 1/4 of District Lot 4006;



103P.025

the Southeast 1/4 of District Lot 4011, except Plan 5249;



103P.025

the Southwest 1/4 of District Lot 4011, except Plans 10005 and
12223;



103P.025

Lot 1 of District Lot 4011, Plan 10005;



103P.025

Lot A of District Lot 4011, Plan 12223;



103P.025

the Northeast 1/4 of District Lot 4011;



103P.025

the Northwest 1/4 of District Lot 4011;



103P.015

the Fractional Northwest 1/4 of District Lot 4012, except Block A
and Plan 9176;



103P.025
Block A of District Lot 4012;


103P.025
Block B of District Lot 4012;


103P.025
Block C of District Lot 4012;


103P.015
Block D of District Lot 4012;


103P.015
Block E of District Lot 4012;


103P.015
Block F of District Lot 4012;


103P.015
Block G of District Lot 4012;


103P.015
Block H of District Lot 4012;


103P.015
Block I of District Lot 4012;


103P.015

the Fractional Southeast 1/4 of District Lot 4013; and



103P.025

District Lot 4015, except any portion of the right of way of the
Dominion Telegraph Line having a width of 100 feet which may lie
within the boundaries of these lands.






Appendix B-2


SCHEDULE 1




Fee simple parcels with a right to access within the boundaries of
Nisg̱a'a Lands as set out in paragraphs 25 and 27 of the Access
Chapter.






Map Ref:










In Cassiar District:



103P.025

the East 1/2 of the Southeast 1/4 of the Fractional Southeast 1/4
of District Lot 1712;



103P.025

the East 1/2 of the Northeast 1/4 of the Fractional Southeast 1/4
of District Lot 1712;



103P.025

the Fractional North 1/2 of District Lot 1712;



103P.025

the Southwest 1/4 of the Fractional Southwest 1/4 of District Lot
1713;



103P.015

the Southeast 1/4 of District Lot 2627, except any portion of the
right of way of the Dominion Telegraph Line having a width of 100
feet which may lie within the boundaries of the said land;



103P.025
District Lot 3053;


103P.035

the Southeast 1/4 of District Lot 3061;



103P.035

the Southwest 1/4 of District Lot 3061;



103P.035

the Fractional Northeast 1/4 of District Lot 3063;



103P.025

the East 1/2 of District Lot 3080;



103P.025
Block B of District Lot 4012;


103P.025
Block C of District Lot 4012;


103P.015
Block D of District Lot 4012;


103P.015
Block E of District Lot 4012;


103P.015
Block F of District Lot 4012;


103P.015
Block G of District Lot 4012;


103P.015
Block H of District Lot 4012;


103P.015
Block I of District Lot 4012; and


103P.025

District Lot 4015, except any portion of the right of way of the
Dominion Telegraph Line having a width of 100 feet which may lie
within the boundaries of these lands.







Appendix B-3

WOODLOT LICENCE AND AGRICULTURE LEASES
WITHIN THE BOUNDARIES OF NISG̱A'A LANDS



Sketch 1
– Woodlot Licence 141;







Sketch 2
– Agriculture Lease 631313 over Block C of District Lot 453, Cassiar
District; and







Sketch 3
– Agriculture Lease 633080 over Block A and the Northwest 1/4 District
Lot 3063, Cassiar District.









Appendix B-4

ROADS ASSOCIATED WITH THE FEE SIMPLE PARCELS
REFERRED TO IN APPENDIX B - 2






Firstly:


Historic and travelled trails which were excluded from the estate
in fee simple granted by British Columbia in respect of the lands
listed in Appendix B-2; and




Secondly:


The following roads within Cassiar District:





Spencer Road


within the S.W. 1/4 of District Lot 4011;





Phillips Landing Road


within the W 1/2 of District Lot 4011 and the E 1/2 of District
Lot 1712;





Hughan/Tankers Road


within District Lots 1728 and 1729, and a strip of land running
between Nisg̱a'a Highway and the westerly boundary of District Lot
1224 bounded on the north by District Lot 1728 and on the south by
Block A of District Lot 453;





Hydro Road


within the S.W. 1/4 of District Lot 1718;





Irene Meadows Road


within the S.W. 1/4 of District Lot 1718;





Airstrip Road


within Block A of District Lot 1730;





Tillicum Lodge Road


that portion lying to the southwest of the junction of Tillicum
Lodge Road with the Grease Trail Forest Service Road; and





477.0 square metre Road


dedicated on Plan 12223 and lying within the S.W. 1/4 of District
Lot 4011.








APPENDIX C

INTERESTS ON NISG̱A'A LANDS







Appendix C-1



Interests on Nisg̱a'a Lands





Appendix C-2




Applicable forms of document for existing interests listed in
Part 1 of Appendix C-1






Appendix C-3




Applicable forms of document for Public Utility transmission and
distribution facilities listed in Part 2 of Appendix C-1






Appendix C-4




Applicable forms of document for Roads listed in Part 3 of
Appendix C-1






Appendix C-5




Certificates of Possession issued by Canada on former Nisg̱a'a
Indian reserves on Nisg̱a'a Lands






Appendix C-6




Persons with an interest authorized by Band Council Resolution
on former Nisg̱a'a Indian reserves on Nisg̱a'a Lands






Appendix C-7




Angling guide licences, trapline licences and guide outfitter
licence wholly or partially on Nisg̱a'a Lands








Appendix C-1

INTERESTS ON NISG̱A'A LANDS






Part 1


Existing Interests




Part 2



Public utility transmission and distribution facilities





Part 3


Roads







Part 1 of Appendix C-1

Existing Interests






Interest Holder


Facility


Location



Previous

Document



Nisg̱a'a Replacement Document






BC TEL

Communication site

Blk. B of D.L. 2626, Cassiar

District (103P.025)

632928 BC

Licence of Occupation for Communication Site with Road Access





Communication site with buried power cable – Ishkeenickh site


South of

La
x
galts'ap (103P.003)

633669 BC

Licence of Occupation for Communication Site with Utility Access




Communication site – Kwinyarh
Along Nass River (103P.014)
633670 BC

Licence of Occupation for Communication Site with Road Access and
Utility Access




Communication site – Aiyansh site

Near New

Aiyansh (103P.025)

633171 BC

Licence of Occupation for Communication Site




Communication site

On former

Kincolith I.R. 14 (103I.091)

89339 Can

Licence of Occupation for Telephone Exchange




Communication site

On former

La
x
galts'ap I.R. 9 (103P.003)

87527 Can

Licence of Occupation for Telephone Exchange





British Columbia






Ministry of

Forests


Experimental Plots

Near SE corner of former Andequlay I.R. 8 (103P.003) and in D.L.
1734, Cassiar District (103P.036)

Exp00702 Blocks 4 and 5 BC

Licence of Occupation for Forestry

Experimental Plots





Ministry of

Transportation and Highways


Communication site
Located on 103P.003
File 6406499 BC

Licence of Occupation for Provincial

Communication Site





British Columbia

Hydro and Power Authority


Communication site
Near Maughlin Cr. (103P.035)
633793 BC

Licence of Occupation for Hydro

Communication Site





Canada






Department of Fisheries and Oceans (Canadian Coast Guard)



Navigation

Beacon

Leading Point (103I.091)
Notation of Interest BC

Licence of Occupation for a Navigational Light





Navigation

Beacon

Fort Point (103I.091)
Notation of Interest BC

Licence of Occupation for a Navigational Light





Navigation

Beacon

Mill Bay (103I.091)
Notation of Interest BC

Licence of Occupation for a Navigational Light





Environment

Canada


Hydrometric station and cableway

On former Old Aiyansh I.R. (103P.025)


28-2

Permit Can (File

70-444)


Licence of Occupation for a Hydrometric

Station




Hydrometric station
Near Ansedagan Creek (103P.014)


Licence of Occupation for a Hydrometric

Station





Canadian

Broadcasting

Corporation


Communication site

In D.L. 2626,

Cassiar District (103P.025)

2659 BC

Licence of Occupation for Communication Site and Road Access





Gitlakdamix Development

Corporation



Store and

laundry


Lot 19-6 in former New Aiyansh I.R. 1 (103P.025)

85074 Can
Lease




N.D. Hayduk/

C.A. Hayduk

owners of Lot A of D.L. 1729,

Cassiar District, Plan 9553



Waterworks

Source – Hughan Brook


In D.L. 1718,

Cassiar District (103P.025)


Permit 16666 BC (
Water Act
)


Permit of Occupation for Waterworks





N.D. Hayduk (P.H. Hugan's executor) owner of the S 1/2 of the
S.W. 1/4 of

D.L. 1718,

Cassiar District, except Plans 5830 and 7486



Waterworks

Source – Hughan Brook


In D.L. 1718,

Cassiar District (103P.025)


Permit 20062 BC (
Water Act
)


Permit of Occupation for Waterworks




Royal Canadian Mounted Police

Communication site
Near Kwinamuck Lake (103P.035)
632776 BC

Licence of Occupation for Communication Site




Communication site
Near Ginlulak Creek (103P.003)
634208 BC

Licence of Occupation for Communication Site





The Board of School Trustees of School District No. 92
(Nisg̱a'a)


School site

Lot 28 in former Gitwinksihlkw I.R. 7 (103P. 014)


PC 1994-685

Section 53(1)

Lease Can

Lease



Sim Gan Forest Corporation

Camp and office

Near Kwinatahl

River (103P.045)


SUP 19897

BC


Special Use Permit for Forestry Operations




Dryland Sort

Near Kwinatahl

River (103P.035)


SUP 22417

BC


Special Use Permit for Forestry Operations




Skeena Cellulose Inc

Log sort and dump
Near Ginlulak (103P.003)
SUP 9764 BC

Special Use Permit for Forestry Operations




Camp and office

Near SE corner of D.L. 2944,

Cassiar (103P.013)

SUP 16189 BC

Special Use Permit for Forestry Operations





M.W. Spisak, owner of D.L. 1729, Cassiar

District, except Plans 8537 and 9553


Waterworks Source – Hughan Brook

Pt of D.L. 1718, Cassiar District (103P.025)


Permit 20064 BC (
Water Act
)


Permit of Occupation for Waterworks





TOK

Communications


Communication site

In D.L. 2626,

Cassiar District (103P.025)

633073 BC

Licence of Occupation for Communication Site and Road Access







Part 2 of Appendix C-1

Public Utility Transmission and Distribution Facilities






Interest Holder


Facility


General Location


Previous Document


Nisg̱a'a Replacement Document






British Columbia Hydro and Power Authority


Transmission Line No.s 1L387 and 1L381


Running from:
Firstly:
The

southerly

boundary of Nisg̱a'a Lands near Fulmar Creek to the Aiyansh
sub-station (Block A of D.L. 1726, Cassiar District); and
Secondly:
Aiyansh sub-station to the northwesterly boundary of Nisg̱a'a Lands
near Kwinatahl within D.L. 1661, Cassiar District, and
Thirdly:
Aiyansh sub-station to the northeasterly boundary of Nisg̱a'a Lands
within D.L. 1751, Cassiar District. All as generally depicted on
Appendix A-2.


1634 BC

634078 BC


Grant of Right of Way and Licence for Public Utility Works to
British Columbia Hydro and Power Authority (Hydro)

(
Right of Way
)




Transmission line

Running between Nisg̱a'a Highway and Block B of 2626, Cassiar
District

2087 BC

Grant of Right of Way and Licence for Public Utility Works to
Hydro (
Right of Way
)




Transmission line

Running from Aiyansh

sub-station to the S.E. 1/4 of D.L. 4011, Cassiar

District and

continuing in a general

southwesterly direction, passing through the village of La
x
galts'ap and former I.R.s, to Gingolx, with a feeder line to
Gitwinksihlkw.


2116 BC

634145 BC

Permit 7491 Can

Permit 7493 Can

633472 BC

Permit 56112 Can


Grant of Right of Way and Licence for Public Utility Works to
Hydro (
Right of Way
)




Transmission Line

Running from Aiyansh

sub-station to Block B of D.L. 1726, Cassiar

District, Plan 7237

2116 BC

Grant of Right of Way and Licence for Public Utility Works to
Hydro (
Right of Way
)




Distribution Lines
Within the Village of New Aiyansh

Permit

70-2156 Can


Grant of Right of Way and Licence for Public Utility Works to
Hydro (
Licence
)




Distribution Lines

Within the Village of La
x
galts'ap

Permit X16157 and 54679 Can

Grant of Right of Way and Licence for Public Utility Works to
Hydro (
Licence
)




Distribution Lines
Within the Village of Gingolx
Permit No. 56112

Grant of Right of Way and Licence for Public Utility Works to
Hydro (
Licence
)




Distribution Lines

Within the Village of Gitwinksihlkw

Permit X16158

Grant of Right of Way and Licence for Public Utility Works to
Hydro (
Licence
)





Other transmission and distribution facilities


Nisg̱a'a Lands other than within Hydro rights of way areas, the
above noted

Villages or areas in respect of which Hydro has been granted
rights under a separate instrument in Appendix C



Grant of Right of Way and Licence for Public Utility Works to
Hydro (
Licence
)



BC TEL
Distribution Line

On former

La
x
galts'ap I.R. 9

80067, 81439 and 104253 Can

Grant of Right of Way and Licence for

Telecommunications to BC TEL (
Right of Way
)





Tele-

communication lines

Within the Village of New Aiyansh


Grant of Right of Way and Licence for

Telecommunications to BC TEL (
Licence
)





Tele-

communication lines


Within the Village of La
x
galts'ap



Grant of Right of Way and Licence for

Telecommunications to BC TEL (
Licence
)





Tele-

communication lines

Within the Village of Gingolx


Grant of Right of Way and licence for public utility works to BC
TEL (
Licence
)





Tele-

communication lines


Within the Village of Gitwinksihlkw



Grant of Right of Way and Licence for

Telecommunications to BC TEL (
Licence
)





Other

distribution and tele-

communication facilities


Nisg̱a'a Lands other than within BC TEL's right of way area, the
above noted

Villages or areas in respect of which BC TEL has been granted
rights under a separate instrument in Appendix C



Grant of Right of Way and Licence for

Telecommunications to BC TEL (
Licence
)







Part 3 of Appendix C-1



Roads


SECONDARY PROVINCIAL ROADS:



Rights of Way granted to British Columbia as represented by

the Minister of Transportation and Highways



Road No. 183
– between that portion of Nisg̱a'a Highway running through the South 1/2
of District Lot 4011, Cassiar District and the northerly boundary of the
Northeast 1/4 of District Lot 4011.

Map 103P. 025


Landfill Road
– between Nisg̱a'a Highway and the easterly boundary of District Lot
1714, Cassiar District.

Map 103P. 025


Road No. 179 (east portion)
– between Nisg̱a'a Highway and the westerly boundary of District Lot
1718.

Map 103P. 025


Road No. 179 (west portion)
– between Nisg̱a'a Highway and the left natural boundary of Nass River,
passing through District Lots 1717, 1715, 1719, 1720, unsurveyed Crown
land, and former Kitladamas Indian Reserve No.1.

Map 103P. 025


Road No. 325
– between Nisg̱a'a Highway and the Grease Trail Forest Service Road (FSR
8672.01) and passing through Block B of District Lot 1726, Block A of
District Lot 1730 and Block A of District Lot 3051.

Maps 103P. 025 and 026


Road access to District Lot 4015, Cassiar District
– between Road No. 179 (west portion) and the easterly boundary of the
District Lot.

Map 103P. 025


Road access to District Lot 3061, Cassiar District
– between the Grease Trail Forest Service Road and the southerly
boundary of the District Lot, and passing through District Lots 3058,
3054, and 3055.

Map 103P. 035



Rights of Way granted to British Columbia as represented

by the Minister of Forests



R04088 – Section A Tchitin River
– running between junction with Nass Forest Service Road 942-7876.03 in
the East 1/2 of District Lot 3128, Cassiar District, to its intersection
with the boundary of Nisg̱a'a Lands within District Lot 3129, Cassiar
District.


Tchitin Road – Section 1
– running between RO4088 and the northerly boundary of Nisg̱a'a Lands and
being the most southerly spur within the northwest 1/4 of District Lot
3124, Cassiar District.


Tchitin Road – Section 2
– running between RO4088 and the northerly boundary of Nisg̱a'a Lands and
being the most northerly spur within the northwest 1/4 of District Lot
3124 Cassiar District.


Tchitin Road – Section 3
– running between RO4088 and the northerly boundary of Nisg̱a'a Lands and
being the most southerly spur within District Lot 3128, Cassiar
District.


Tchitin Road – Section 4
– running between RO4088 and the northerly boundary of Nisg̱a'a Lands and
being the most northerly spur within District Lot 3128, Cassiar
District.

Map sheet 103P.056


R07185 – Taylor Lake Road
– running between junction with Nass Forest Service Road 942-07876.04,
within the Northeast 1/4 of District Lot 3104, Cassiar District, and its
intersection with the northerly boundary of Nisg̱a'a Lands within
District Lot 3111, Cassiar District.

Map 103P.045


R07521 – Section A South Kshadin
– running between junction with Special Use Permit 9228 within District
Lot 1661, Cassiar District, and its intersection with the boundary of
Nisg̱a'a Lands within District Lot 3098, Cassiar District.

Map 103P.045


R07694 – Sections A, B and C – Ksedin Creek –
running from Nisg̱a'a Highway in a general southeasterly direction to the
boundary of Nisg̱a'a Lands in the general vicinity of Ksedin Creek.

Maps 103P.003 and 103P.004


R07708 – Sections A and B – Beaupre Road


Section A
– running from the boundary of Nisg̱a'a Memorial Lava Bed Park in a
general southerly direction to the boundary of Nisg̱a'a Lands.


Section B
– partially constructed with approximately 2.3 kms within Nisg̱a'a Lands
requiring construction.

Map 103P.015



R07816 – Sections A, B, C, C-1 and D – Ishkheenickh Road –

running from Nisg̱a'a Highway in a general southwesterly direction, with
portions following the left and right banks of the Ishkheenickh River.

Maps 103I.083, 103I.093 and 103P.003


R07817 – Section A – Ksedin Creek
– running from Nisg̱a'a Highway in a general easterly direction to the
boundary of Nisg̱a'a Lands in the general vicinity of Ksemanaith Creek.

Maps 103P.003, 103P.004 and 103P.014


R07818 – Sections A and B – Hoadley Creek Road


Section A
– running from the junction with the Nass Forest Service Road in
District Lot 1731, Cassiar District, to the boundary of Nisg̱a'a Lands in
the vicinity of Hoadley Creek.


Section B
– running from RO7818 – Section A easterly to the boundary of Nisg̱a'a
Lands and within District Lots 1743 and 1744.


Maps 103P.026 and 103P.036


R07889 – Sections A, B, and C – North Hoodoo Road


Section A
– running from the junction with the Nass Forest Service Road near the
southerly boundary of District Lot 1751, Cassiar District, and its
junction with the Nass Forest Service Road within District Lot 4006,
Cassiar District;


Section B
– running between Section A of North Hoodoo Road and the easterly
boundary of Nisg̱a'a Lands within District Lot 1751, Cassiar District;


Section C
– running in a northeasterly direction between Section A of North Hoodoo
Road and the easterly boundary of Nisg̱a'a Lands within District Lot
1759, Cassiar District;


Jackpine – Section 1
– running northeasterly from Section A of North Hoodoo Road to the
easterly boundary of Nisg̱a'a Lands within District Lot 1763, Cassiar
District;


Jackpine – Section 2
– running in a northerly direction between Section A of North Hoodoo
Road and the easterly boundary of Nisg̱a'a Lands within District Lot
1772, Cassiar District; and


Jackpine – Section 3
– running northeasterly from Section A of North Hoodoo Road to the
easterly boundary of Nisg̱a'a Lands within District Lot 3079, Cassiar
District.

Maps 103P.036 and 103P.046


RO10521 – Section A – Branch 5000
– running in a general southeasterly direction between Nisg̱a'a Highway
and the southerly boundary of Nisg̱a'a Lands.

Maps 103P.003 and 103P.004


FSR 8672.01 – Section 01 – Grease Trail
– running from junction with Road No. 325 within Block A of District Lot
1730, Cassiar District, to the northerly boundary of the BC Hydro.right
of way, Plan 5612, which lies within District Lot 3063, Cassiar
District.

Maps 103P.025 and 103P.035


FSR 7876.03 – Section 03 (Nass-Kinskuch)
– running northwesterly between sections of the boundary of Nisg̱a'a
Lands from the northerly boundary of District Lot 4006 to the northerly
boundary of District Lot 3128, Cassiar District;


Section 1
– running northeasterly from Nass-Kinskuch FSR within the north 1/2 of
District Lot 3125, Cassiar District;


Section 3
– running in a general northerly direction from Kinskuch-Section 4
within the south 1/2 of District Lot 3125, Cassiar District; and


Section 4
– running in a general northeasterly direction from Nass-Kinskuch FRS
within the south 1/2 of District Lot 3125, Cassiar District.

Maps 103P.046 and 103P.056


FSR 7876.04 – Section 04 (Nass -Kwinatahl)
– runs southwesterly from its junction with FSR 7876.03 to the
northwesterly boundary of Nisg̱a'a Lands crossing the boundary within the
East 1/2 of District Lot 3104, Cassiar District.

Maps 103P.045 and 103P.046


S.U.P 9228 Kshadin to Alice Arm (Amax of Canada)
– running in a general southwesterly direction from Kshadin Creek,
within District Lot 3101, to the southerly boundary of District Lot
1661, Cassiar District. This road straddles the boundary of Nisg̱a'a
Lands.

Maps 103P.035 and 103P.045


North Hoodoo Access Road 1
– running in a general northeasterly direction between North Hoodoo Road
and the easterly boundary of Nisg̱a'a Lands, within District Lots 1759
and 1763, Cassiar District.


North Hoodoo Access Road 2
– running in a general northeasterly direction between North Hoodoo Road
and the easterly boundary of Nisg̱a'a Lands, within District Lot 1768,
Cassiar District.


North Hoodoo Access Road 3
– running in a general northeasterly direction between North Hoodoo Road
and the easterly boundary of Nisg̱a'a Lands, within District Lot 1772,
Cassiar District.


North Hoodoo Access Road 4
– running in a general northeasterly direction between North Hoodoo Road
and the easterly boundary of Nisg̱a'a Lands, within District Lot 4003,
Cassiar District.


SECONDARY PROVINCIAL ROAD EXTENSIONS


North Hoodoo Access Road – Site 1 Extension
– Of the two locations identified only one is to be selected by British
Columbia running in a general northeasterly direction between North
Hoodoo Road and the easterly boundary of Nisg̱a'a Lands, within District
Lot 1768, Cassiar District.


North Hoodoo Access Road – Site 2 Extension
– running in an easterly direction between North Hoodoo Road and the
easterly boundary of Nisg̱a'a Lands, within District Lots 1777 and 3077,
Cassiar District.


PRIVATE ROADS:


Private Easements





Access to Woodlot Licence 141

William Knight

Ref. Map 103P.035



Access to Fractional N.E. 1/4 of D.L. 3063, Cassiar District

Nass Cattle Company Ltd. Inc. #346159

Ref. Map 103P.035



Access to D.L. 3053, Cassiar District

E. Fleenor/ C.E. Fleenor/ D. Dimaggio

Ref. Map 103P.025



Access to S.E. 1/4 of D.L. 2627, Cassiar District

HW Riemer

Ref. Map 103P.015





BRITISH COLUMBIA HYDRO AND POWER

AUTHORITY (HYDRO) ACCESS ROADS:



Roads appurtenant to Public Utility Works


Road No. 1 –
enters Nisg̱a'a Lands at Fulmar Creek and continues in a general
northwesterly direction, passing through unsurveyed Nisg̱a'a Land,
District Lots 4014 and 2627, to the northerly boundary of District Lot
2627, using a main logging road and spurs. Includes four separate access
branches.

Maps 103P.015 and 103P.016


Road No. 2 –
trail between Block B of District Lot 2626, and the main hydro line in
the vicinity of the southerly boundary of District Lot 2625.

Map 103P.025


Road No. 3 –
an existing road between Nisg̱a'a Highway and Hydro's right of way near
the southerly boundary of District Lot 1722.

Map 103P.025


Road No. 4 –
an existing road between Nisg̱a'a Highway and Hydro's right of way in the
Northwest 1/4 of District Lot 1723.

Map. 103P.025


Road No. 5 –
an existing road between Nisg̱a'a Highway and Hydro's right of way lying
south of Block A of District Lot 1726.

Map 103P.026


Road No. 6 –
an existing road between Nisg̱a'a Highway and Hydro's right of way in the
southeast corner of District Lot 1730.

Map 103P.026


Road No. 7 –
access spur between Nisg̱a'a Highway and Hydro's right of way in the
vicinity of the southerly boundary of District Lot 1734.

Map 103P.036


Road No. 8 –
an existing trail between Nisg̱a'a Highway and Hydro's right of way in
the vicinity of the northerly boundary of District Lot 1734.

Map 103P.036


Road No. 9 –
access road between Nisg̱a'a Highway and Hydro's right of way running
southwesterly from the highway passing through District Lots 1746, 1742,
1741, and 1738 along decommissioned roads. Includes one access spur.

Map 103P.036


Road No. 10 –
access road between Grease Trail Forest Service Road and Hydro's right
of way, running in a northeasterly direction within District Lot 3063.

Map 103P.036


Road No. 11 –
access road between Grease Trail Forest Service Road and Hydro's right
of way, running in a westerly direction within District Lot 3066.

Map 103P.035


Road No. 12 –
access road between S.U.P. 9228 (Kshadin to Alice Arm) and Hydro's right
of way, running is a southerly direction passing through District Lot
166I along former RO6419.

Map 103P.035


Road No. 13 –
From Nisg̱a'a Highway to the easterly boundary of Block B of District Lot
1726, Cassiar District.

Map 103P.025 and 103P. 026


Road No. 14 –
From Nisg̱a'a Highway to Block B of District Lot 2626, Cassiar District.

Map 103P.025




Appendix C-2

APPLICABLE FORMS OF DOCUMENT FOR EXISTING

INTERESTS LISTED IN PART 1 OF APPENDIX C-1






Document 1



Licence of Occupation for Communication Site;





Document 2



Licence of Occupation for Provincial Communication Site;





Document 3



Licence of Occupation for Communication Site with Utility
Access;





Document 4



Licence of Occupation for Communication Site with Road Access;





Document 5



Licence of Occupation for Communication Site with Road Access
and Utility Access;





Document 6



Licence of Occupation for Hydro Communication Site;





Document 7



Licence of Occupation for Forestry Experimental Plots;





Document 8



Licence of Occupation for a Hydrometric Station;





Document 9



Licence of Occupation for a Navigational Light;





Document 10



Licence of Occupation for Telephone Exchange;





Document 11


Permit of Occupation for Waterworks;




Document 12



Special Use Permit for Forestry Operations; and





Document 13


Leases (not published).







Appendix C-2

Document 1



License of Occupation for Communication Site


THIS AGREEMENT made this __________ day of ____________________ , 199

BETWEEN:

NISG̱A'A NATION
, of


____________________

(the "Owner")

AND:

of ____________________

(the "Licensee")


Whereas the Owner has agreed to grant to the Licensee a license to enter
on and use that parcel of land (the "Land") located generally in the
vicinity of ________________ and described in the schedule attached and
entitled "Legal Description";


Now therefore in consideration of the fee to be paid by, and the
covenants of, the Licensee, the parties agree as follows:


Article 1 – Grant of License


1.1
The Owner, on the terms set forth herein, hereby grants to the Licensee
a license to enter on and use the Land for the purpose of constructing
and maintaining for communication purposes any building, tower, road,
antennae, powerline or other physical infrastructure shown in the site
plan and site elevation drawing forming part of the Legal Description
Schedule (the "Civil Infrastructure").


Article 2 – Duration


2.1
The duration of the license and the rights herein granted shall be for a
term of 20 years commencing on the
day
of   , 199    (the "Commencement Date")
unless cancelled in accordance with Article 6.


2.2
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this license, so long as:


(a) the Licensee is not in default of any of the material terms or
conditions of this license; and


(b) the Licensee has given the Owner, not more than · days prior to the
expiration of the term herein granted, notice in writing of the
Licensee's wish to re-apply for a new license to enter on and use the
Land


the Owner may agree to offer a new license to the Licensee by notice to
the Licensee, in writing, on the terms and conditions determined by the
Owner and contained in the notice. The Licensee shall have a period of
60 days from the date of receipt of the notice from the Owner to accept
a new license to enter on and use the Land by executing the new license
contained in the notice and delivering it to the Owner.


Article 3 – License Fee


3.1
The Licensee shall pay to the Owner an annual license fee during the
term of this license, in advance, as follows:


(a) during the first five years of the term of this license (the
"Initial Fee Period"), the Licensee shall pay to the Owner:

(i) on the Commencement Date, the sum of · ; and

(ii) on each annual anniversary of the Commencement Date during the
Initial Fee Period, a sum equal to the greater of:


(1) the annual license fee for the immediately preceding year; and


(2) the amount which would be payable on that date under the then-
existing policies of the Province of British Columbia with respect to
the payment of rent for communication sites located on similar Crown
Land (the "Provincial Policies"); and


(b) during each subsequent five year period over the term of this
license (a "Subsequent Fee Period"), the Licensee shall pay to the Owner
on each annual anniversary of the Commencement Date a sum equal to the
greatest of:


(i) the annual license fee for the immediately preceding year,


(ii) the amount which would be payable on that date under the
then-existing Provincial Policies, or


(iii) the annual fair market rent for the Subsequent Fee Period, if that
annual fair market rent has been determined:


(1) by written agreement between the Owner and the Licensee prior to the
Subsequent Fee Period; or


(2) pursuant to the dispute resolution process set out in Article 10,
invoked by the Owner or the Licensee prior to the Subsequent Fee Period.


3.2
In this Article,
"annual fair market rent"
means the fee which a willing licensee at arm's length from the Owner
would pay to the Owner in respect of the Land excluding any allocation
of value to any fixtures or improvements located on the Land:

(a) belonging to the Licensee; or
(b) not available for use by the Licensee.

Article 4 – Covenants of the Licensee


4.1
The Licensee covenants with the Owner:


(a) to pay the license fee due at the address of the Owner set out above
or at such other place as the Owner may specify from time to time by the
giving of notice to the Licensee in accordance with Article 8;


(b) to pay and discharge when due all applicable taxes, levies, charges
and assessments now or hereafter assessed, levied or charged that relate
to the Land or any of the Licensee's improvements thereon (the "Realty
Taxes") that the Licensee is liable to pay;


(c) to observe, abide by and comply with all applicable laws, bylaws,
orders, directions, ordinances and regulations of any competent
government authority in any way affecting the Land and improvements
situate thereon, or their use and occupation;


(d) not to commit or suffer any wilful or voluntary waste, spoil or
destruction on the Land or do or suffer to be done thereon by its
employees, contractors, agents, invitees or anyone for whom the Licensee
is responsible at law anything that may be or become a nuisance to the
Owner or to the occupiers of adjoining land;


(e) to deliver to the Owner from time to time, upon demand, proof of
insurance provided for in subsection (k), receipts or other evidence of
payment of Realty Taxes, insurance premiums and other monetary
obligations of the Licensee required to be observed by the Licensee
pursuant to this license;


(f) to indemnify and save harmless the Owner against all losses,
damages, costs and liabilities, including fees of solicitors and other
professional advisors, arising out of:


(i) any breach, violation or non-performance of any covenant, condition
or agreement in this license by the Licensee, or


(ii) any personal injury, death or property damage arising out of the
Licensee's use and occupation of the Land


and the Owner may add the amount of such losses, damages, costs and
liabilities to the Fee and the amount so added shall be payable to the
Owner immediately;


(g) to keep the Land in a safe, clean and sanitary condition
satisfactory to the Owner acting reasonably, and to make safe, clean and
sanitary any portion of the Land or any improvement thereon that the
Owner, acting reasonably, may direct by notice in writing to the
Licensee;


(h) to permit the Owner or its authorized representative to enter upon
the Land at any time to examine its condition;


(i) to use and occupy the Land in accordance with the provisions of this
license including those set forth in the schedule attached and entitled
"Special Provisos";


(j) on the expiration or at the earlier cancellation of this license:


(i) to quit peaceably and deliver possession of the Land to the Owner,


(ii) to remove from the Land all above-ground buildings, machinery,
plant equipment and apparatus and all other improvements to or things on
the Land erected or placed on the Land by the Licensee, and


(iii) to restore the surface of the Land to the satisfaction of the
Owner acting reasonably,


and to the extent necessary, this covenant shall survive the expiration
or cancellation of this license;


(k) to effect and keep in force during the term insurance protecting the
Owner and the Licensee (without any rights of cross-claim or subrogation
against the Owner) against claims for personal injury, death, property
damage or third party or public liability claims arising from any
accident or occurrence on the Land to an amount not less than
$1,000,000.00; except, however, that the Owner may, in its sole
discretion, waive the requirements of this subsection on the delivery to
the Owner of evidence that the Licensee is self insured;


(l) notwithstanding subsection (k), the Owner may from time to time
notify the Licensee that the amount of insurance posted by the Licensee
pursuant to that subsection be changed and the Licensee shall, within 60
days of receiving such notice, cause the amount of insurance posted,
pursuant to subsection (k) to be changed to the amount specified by the
Owner, acting reasonably, in the notice and deliver to the Owner written
confirmation of the change, except that when the Licensee is
self-insuring this section shall not apply;


(m) not to interfere with the activities, works or other improvements of
any other person who enters on or uses or occupies the Land under a
subsequent right or interest granted by the Owner, or who is otherwise
authorized by the Owner to enter on or use or occupy the Land, in
accordance with Section 9.3; and


(n) on request of the Owner, to provide to the Owner an inventory of
communication uses sufficient to allow the calculation of fees under the
Provincial Policies.


Article 5 – Assignment


5.1
The Licensee shall not assign this license or grant a sublicense of any
part of the Land without the prior written consent of the Owner, which
consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.


5.2
Notwithstanding section 5.1, the Licensee may, without the prior written
consent of the Owner, assign its interest in all or a part of the Land
to an affiliate (as defined in the
Company Act,
RSBC 1996) of the Licensee provided that the Licensee gives written
notice of any such change at least 120 days prior to the next
anniversary date of the term of this license.


5.3
No assignment or sublicensing pursuant to sections 5.1 or 5.2, nor the
Owner's consent thereto, will relieve the Licensee from the observance
and performance of the Licensee's obligations contained in this license.


Article 6 – Cancellation


6.1
If the Licensee fails to observe or perform any term contained herein,
and such failure continues after the giving of the written notice by the
Owner to the Licensee of the nature of the failure for a period of:

(a) 30 days; or

(b) 150 days, if the failure because of its nature would reasonably
require more than 30 days to cure, and provided that the Licensee is
proceeding diligently and continuously to cure the failure throughout


then the Owner may cancel this license and, notwithstanding subsection
4.1 (j), any fixtures to the Land shall become, at the discretion of the
Owner, the property of the Owner.


6.2
If this license is taken in execution or attachment by any person, or
the Licensee commits an act of bankruptcy, becomes insolvent, is
petitioned into bankruptcy or voluntarily enters into an arrangement
with his creditors, the Owner may, on 90 days written notice to the
Licensee, cancel this license and the rights herein granted.


6.3
If the Licensee ceases to use the Land for the purposes permitted herein
and the Licensee does not recommence its use of the Land within 180 days
of receipt of written notice from the Owner, the Owner may immediately
cancel this license and the rights herein granted.


6.4
If the Owner requires a portion of the Land for a public purpose, the
Owner may, in accordance with section 6.5 and on 180 days written notice
to the Licensee, cancel this license and the rights herein granted with
respect to no more than 5% of the whole of the Land.


6.5
Concurrently with the notice referred to in section 6.4, the Owner will
give the Licensee written notice that the Owner will, at its cost,
relocate the Licensee's structures and improvements that are materially
affected by the cancellation in Section 6.4 to a different location
on the Land or to a location on other land immediately adjacent to the
Land (the "New Location"). The New Location must, in the reasonable
opinion of the Licensee, be of sufficient size to accommodate the
Licensee's structures and improvements and be equally suitable for the
purposes of the Licensee. The Owner will pay for any reasonable costs of
moving the Licensee and its structures and improvements to the New
Location. If the Licensee's structures and improvements cannot be moved
to the New Location, the Owner will pay to the Licensee the reasonable
costs of constructing new improvements on the New Location. As full
compensation for all other costs, expenses and damages that the Licensee
may incur in connection with the relocation, including disruption and
loss of business, the parties shall agree on a lump sum payment and
failing agreement, the matter shall be referred to arbitration pursuant
to Article 10. All other terms and conditions of this license will apply
to the New Location for the balance of the original term.


6.6
The Licensee may deliver a written notice to the Owner cancelling this
license and thereafter the license and the rights herein granted will
terminate 180 days after the date of receipt by the Owner of such
written notice.


6.7
Notwithstanding subsection 4.1 (j), any building, machinery, plant,
equipment, apparatus or other improvements to the Land (collectively,
the "Improvements") that remains unremoved from the Land:


(a) upon the cancellation of this license pursuant to section 6.1,
section 6.4 or section 6.6; or


(b) thirty days after the expiration of this license or the cancellation
of this license pursuant to section 6.2 or section 6.3 (provided that if
further time is reasonably required because of the nature of the
Improvements or because of other constraints beyond the control of the
Licensee, including weather, and provided that the Licensee is
proceeding diligently and continuously to remove such Improvements, the
30 day time for removal will be extended to 150 days after the
expiration or cancellation of this license),


shall, at the discretion of the Owner, be forfeited to and become the
property of the Owner.


6.8
If the Owner elects to assume ownership of any Improvements pursuant to
section 6.7, the Owner may remove them from the Land and the Licensee
shall, on demand, compensate the Owner for all costs incurred by the
Owner respecting their removal.


6.9
The rights of the Owner under section 6.7 and section 6.8 shall be
deemed to survive the expiration or earlier cancellation of this
license.


Article 7 – Security


7.1
The security in the sum of $· and all rights, privileges, benefits and
interests accruing thereto delivered by the Licensee to the Owner
(herein called the "Security") to guarantee the performance of the
Licensee's obligations under this license shall be maintained in effect
until such time as the Owner certifies in writing that such obligations
have been fully performed. The Owner may, in its sole discretion, waive
the requirements of this section.


7.2
In the event the Licensee defaults in the performance of any of its
obligations hereunder, the Owner may, in its sole discretion, sell, call
in and convert the Security, or any part of it, and such Security shall
be deemed to have been absolutely forfeited to the Owner.


7.3
The rights of the Owner under this Article shall be deemed to continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding the expiration or earlier
cancellation of this license.


7.4
Notwithstanding any amount of Security stated to be required under
section 7.1 the Owner may, acting reasonably, from time to time by
notice to the Licensee, demand the amount to be changed to that
specified in a notice and the Licensee shall, within 60 days of such
notice, change the Security to that specified and provide the Owner with
evidence of the change, except that while Security is waived under
section 7.1 this section shall not apply.


Article 8 – Notice


8.1
Whenever service of a notice or a document is required under this
license, the notice or documents shall be in writing and shall be deemed
to have been served if delivered to, or if sent by prepaid registered
mail addressed to, the Owner or the Licensee, as the case may be, at the
addresses specified for each on the first page of this license, and
where service is by registered mail the notice or document shall be
conclusively deemed to have been served on the eighth day after its
deposit in a Canada Post office at any place in Canada. If there is a
disruption in mail service caused by labour dispute, civil unrest or
other events beyond the control of the parties, between mailing and
actual receipt of such notice, the party sending such notice will
re-send by courier, fax or other electronic means and such notice will
only be effective if actually received.


8.2
Either party may, by notice in writing to the other, specify another
address for service of notices under this license and after another
address has been specified under this section, notices shall be mailed
to that address in accordance with this Article.


Article 9 – Miscellaneous


9.1
No term, condition, covenant or other provision herein shall be
considered to have been waived by the Owner unless such waiver is
expressed in writing by the Owner. Any such waiver of any term,
condition, covenant or other provision herein shall not be construed as
or constitute a waiver of any further or other breach of the same or any
other term, condition, covenant, or other provision and the consent or
approval of the Owner to any act by the Licensee requiring the consent
or approval of the Owner shall not be considered to waive or render
unnecessary such consents or approvals to any subsequent similar act by
the Licensee.


9.2
No remedy conferred upon or reserved to the Owner is exclusive of any
other remedy herein or provided by law, but such remedy shall be
cumulative and shall be in addition to any other remedy herein or
hereafter existing at law, in equity, or by statute.


9.3
This license shall not entitle the Licensee to exclusive possession of
the Land and the Owner may, for any purpose, grant to others interests
in the Land or rights to enter on or use or occupy the Land, or may
otherwise authorize other persons to enter on or use or occupy the Land,
so long as the grant or authorization does not materially affect the
exercise of the Licensee's rights hereunder. The question of whether a
grant materially affects the exercise of the Licensee's rights hereunder
shall be determined by the Owner acting reasonably. If the Owner, by
written instrument, grants a license, right or interest to others to use
or occupy the Land, such grant will contain a provision identical to
subsection 4.1 (g) of this license obligating the new grantee to keep
the Land in a safe, clean and sanitary condition satisfactory to the
Owner.


9.4
The terms and provisions of this license shall extend to, be binding
upon and enure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their successors
and permitted assigns.


9.5
Time is of the essence in this agreement.


Article 10 – Dispute Resolution


10.1
In this Article,
"dispute"
means any dispute arising out of or in connection with this license or
in respect of any defined legal relationship associated with it or
derived from it.


10.2
The parties agree to attempt to resolve all disputes by negotiations
conducted in good faith and to provide timely disclosure of all relevant
facts, information and documents to further those negotiations.


10.3
If a dispute is not settled through direct negotiations either party may
request the British Columbia International Commercial Arbitration Centre
(BCICAC) to appoint a mediator to conduct a mediation under its
mediation rules of procedure.


10.4
If a dispute is not settled within 15 days of the appointment of the
mediator or any further period of time agreed to by the parties, the
dispute shall be referred to and finally resolved by arbitration before
a single arbitrator under the arbitration rules of procedure of the
BCICAC.


10.5
If the BCICAC is unavailable or unable to administer the mediation or
arbitration of a dispute under its rules of procedure, the parties will
select the rules of another institution.


Article 11 – Interpretation


11.1
In this license, unless the context otherwise requires, the singular
includes the plural and the masculine includes the feminine gender and a
corporation.


11.2
The captions and headings contained in this license are for convenience
only and are not to be construed as defining or in any way limiting the
scope or intent of the provisions herein.


11.3
If any section of this license or any part of a section is found to be
illegal or unenforceable, that part or section, as the case may be,
shall be considered separate and severable and the remaining parts and
sections of this license shall not be affected thereby and shall be
enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.


IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this license as of the day
and year first above written.





SIGNED by a duly authorized signatory of

)



)


in the presence of:
)



____________________

Name


)

)


____________________

Authorized Signatory




____________________

Address


)

)



____________________
)



)







SIGNED by a duly authorized signatory of

)



)


in the presence of:
)



____________________

Name


)

)


____________________

Authorized Signatory




____________________

Address


)

)



____________________
)



)




LEGAL DESCRIPTION SCHEDULE

1. Legal Description
2. Sketch Plan

SPECIAL PROVISOS SCHEDULE

Special Provisos:

(1) The Licensee shall comply with the provisions of his Radio Station
License issued by Communications Canada and any subsequent amendments to
that license.


(2) The Licensee shall inform the Owner of any amendments to his Radio
Station License.




Appendix C-2

Document 2




License of Occupation for Provincial Communication Site



THIS AGREEMENT made this __________ day of ____________________ , 199

BETWEEN:

NISG̱A'A NATION
, of


____________________

(the "Owner")

AND:


HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN IN RIGHT OF THE PROVINCE OF BRITISH COLUMBIA

, as represented by the Minister of Transportation and Highways of

of ____________________

(the "Licensee")


Whereas the Owner has agreed to grant to the Licensee a license to enter
on and use that parcel of land (the "Land") located generally in the
vicinity of ________________ and described in the schedule attached and
entitled "Legal Description";


Now therefore in consideration of the fee to be paid by and the
covenants of the Licensee, the parties agree as follows:


Article 1 – Grant of License


1.1
The Owner, on the terms set forth herein, hereby grants to the Licensee
a license to enter on and use the Land for the purpose of constructing
and maintaining for communication purposes any building, tower, road,
antennae, powerline or other physical infrastructure shown in the site
plan and site elevation drawing forming part of the Legal Description
Schedule (the "Civil Infrastructure").


Article 2 – Duration


2.1
The duration of the license and the rights herein granted shall be for a
term of 20 years commencing on the
day of , 199
(the "Commencement Date") unless cancelled in accordance with Article 6.


2.2
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this license, so long as:


(a) the Licensee is not in default of any of the material terms or
conditions of this license; and


(b) the Licensee has given the Owner, not more than · days prior to the
expiration of the term herein granted, notice in writing of the
Licensee's wish to re-apply for a new license to enter on and use the
Land


the Owner may agree to offer a new license to the Licensee by notice to
the Licensee, in writing, on the terms and conditions determined by the
Owner and contained in the notice. The Licensee shall have a period of
60 days from the date of receipt of the notice from the Owner to accept
a new license of the Land by executing the new license contained in the
notice and delivering it to the Owner.


Article 3 – License Fee


3.1
The Licensee shall pay to the Owner a license fee of $1.00 for the
entire term.


Article 4 – Covenants of the Licensee


4.1
The Licensee covenants with the Owner:


(a) to pay and discharge when due all applicable taxes, levies, charges
and assessments now or hereafter assessed, levied or charged that relate
to the Land or any of the Licensee's improvements thereon (the "Realty
Taxes") that the Licensee is liable to pay;


(b) to observe, abide by and comply with all applicable laws, bylaws,
orders, directions, ordinances and regulations of any competent
government authority in any way affecting the Land and improvements
situate thereon, or their use and occupation;


(c) not to commit or suffer any wilful or voluntary waste, spoil or
destruction on the Land or do or suffer to be done thereon by its
employees, contractors, agents, invitees or anyone for whom the Licensee
is responsible at law anything that may be or become a nuisance to the
Owner or to the occupiers of adjoining land;


(d) to deliver to the Owner from time to time, upon demand, proof of
insurance provided for in subsection (j), receipts or other evidence of
payment of Realty Taxes, insurance premiums and other monetary
obligations of the Licensee required to be observed by the Licensee
pursuant to this license;


(e) to indemnify and save harmless the Owner against all losses,
damages, costs and liabilities, including fees of solicitors and other
professional advisors, arising out of:


(i) any breach, violation or non-performance of any covenant, condition
or agreement in this license by the Licensee, or


(ii) any personal injury, death or property damage arising out of the
Licensee's use and occupation of the Land


and the amount of such losses, damages, costs and liabilities shall be
payable to the Owner immediately;


(f) to keep the Land in a safe, clean and sanitary condition
satisfactory to the Owner acting reasonably, and to make safe, clean and
sanitary any portion of the Land or any improvement thereon that the
Owner, acting reasonably, may direct by notice in writing to the
Licensee;


(g) to permit the Owner or its authorized representative to enter upon
the Land at any time to examine its condition;


(h) to use and occupy the Land in accordance with the provisions of this
license including those set forth in the schedule attached and entitled
"Special Provisos";


(i) on the expiration or at the earlier cancellation of this license:


(i) to quit peaceably and deliver possession of the Land to the Owner,


(ii) to remove from the Land all above-ground buildings, machinery,
plant equipment and apparatus and all other improvements to or things on
the Land erected or placed on the Land by the Licensee, and


(iii) to restore the surface of the Land to the satisfaction of the
Owner acting reasonably,


and to the extent necessary, this covenant shall survive the expiration
or cancellation of this license;


(j) to effect, and keep in force during the term, insurance protecting
the Owner and the Licensee (without any rights of cross-claim or
subrogation against the Owner) against claims for personal injury,
death, property damage or third party or public liability claims arising
from any accident or occurrence on the Land to an amount not less than
$1,000,000.00; except that so long as the Licensee is Her Majesty the
Queen in Right of the Province of British Columbia or a British Columbia
crown corporation, the Owner will waive the requirements of this
subsection on the delivery to the Owner of confirmation that the
Licensee is self insured;


(k) notwithstanding subsection (j), the Owner may from time to time
notify the Licensee that the amount of insurance posted by the Licensee
pursuant to that subsection be changed and the Licensee shall, within 60
days of receiving such notice, cause the amount of insurance posted,
pursuant to subsection (j) to be changed to the amount specified by the
Owner, acting reasonably, in the notice and deliver to the Owner written
confirmation of the change, except that when the Licensee is
self-insuring this section shall not apply; and


(l) not to interfere with the activities, works or other improvements of
any other person who enters on or uses or occupies the Land under a
subsequent right or interest granted by the Owner, or who is otherwise
authorized by the Owner to enter on or use or occupy the Land, in
accordance with Section 9.3.


Article 5 – Assignment


5.1
The Licensee shall not assign this license or grant a sublicense of any
part of the Land without the prior written consent of the Owner, which
consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.


5.2
Notwithstanding section 5.1, the Licensee may, without the prior written
consent of the Owner, assign its interest in all or a part of the Land
to a British Columbia crown corporation provided that the Licensee gives
written notice of any such change at least 120 days prior to the next
anniversary date of the term of this license.


5.3
No assignment or sublicensing pursuant to sections 5.1 or 5.2, nor the
Owner's consent thereto, will relieve the Licensee from the observance
and performance of the Licensee's obligations contained in this license.


Article 6 – Cancellation


6.1
If the Licensee fails to observe or perform any term contained herein,
and such failure continues after the giving of the written notice by the
Owner to the Licensee of the nature of the failure for a period of:

(a) 30 days; or

(b) 150 days, if the failure because of its nature would reasonably
require more than 30 days to cure, and provided that the Licensee is
proceeding diligently and continuously to cure the failure throughout


then, and in any such case, the Owner may cancel this license and,
notwithstanding subsection 4.1 (i), any fixtures to the Land shall
become, at the discretion of the Owner, the property of the Owner.


6.2
If this license is taken in execution or attachment by any person, or
the Licensee commits an act of bankruptcy, becomes insolvent, is
petitioned into bankruptcy or voluntarily enters into an arrangement
with his creditors, the Owner may, on 90 days written notice to the
Licensee, cancel this license and the rights herein granted.


6.3
If the Licensee ceases to use the Land for the purposes permitted herein
and the Licensee does not recommence its use of the Land within 180 days
of receipt of written notice from the Owner, the Owner may immediately
cancel this license and the rights herein granted.


6.4
If the Owner requires a portion of the Land for a public purpose, the
Owner may, in accordance with section 6.5 and on 180 days written notice
to the Licensee, cancel this license and the rights herein granted with
respect to no more than 5% of the whole of the Land.


6.5
Concurrently with the notice referred to in section 6.4, the Owner will
give the Licensee written notice that the Owner will, at its cost,
relocate the Licensee's structures and improvements that are materially
affected by the cancellation in Section 6.4 to a different location
on the Land or to a location on other land immediately adjacent to the
Land (the "New Location"). The New Location must, in the reasonable
opinion of the Licensee, be of sufficient size to accommodate the
Licensee's structures and improvements and be equally suitable for the
purposes of the Licensee. The Owner will pay for any reasonable costs of
moving the Licensee and its structures and improvements to the New
Location. If the Licensee's structures and improvements cannot be moved
to the New Location, the Owner will pay to the Licensee the reasonable
costs of constructing new improvements on the New Location. As full
compensation for all other costs, expenses and damages that the Licensee
may incur in connection with the relocation, including disruption and
loss of business, the parties shall agree on a lump sum payment and
failing agreement, the matter shall be referred to arbitration pursuant
to Article 10. All other terms and conditions of this license will apply
to the New Location for the balance of the original term.


6.6
The Licensee may deliver a written notice to the Owner cancelling this
license and thereafter the license and the rights herein granted will
terminate 180 days after the date of receipt by the Owner of such
written notice.


6.7
Notwithstanding subsection 4.1 (i), any buildings, machinery, plant,
equipment and apparatus and all other improvements to the Land
(collectively, the "Improvements") that remain unremoved from the Land:


(a) upon the cancellation of this license pursuant to section 6.1,
section 6.4 or section 6.6; or


(b) thirty days after the expiration or cancellation of this license
pursuant to section 6.2 or section 6.3 (provided that if further time is
reasonably required because of the nature of the Improvements or because
of other constraints beyond the control of the Licensee, including
weather, and provided that the Licensee is proceeding diligently and
continuously to remove such Improvements, the 30 day time for removal
will be extended to 150 days after the expiration or cancellation of
this license)


shall, at the discretion of the owner, be forfeited to and become the
property of the Owner.


6.8
If the Owner elects to assume ownership of any above-ground Improvements
pursuant to section 6.7, the Owner may remove them from the Land and the
Licensee shall, on demand, compensate the Owner for all costs incurred
by the Owner respecting their removal.


6.9
The rights of the Owner under section 6.7 and section 6.8 shall be
deemed to survive the expiration or earlier cancellation of this
license.


Article 7 – Security


7.1
The security in the sum of $1.00 and all rights, privileges, benefits
and interests accruing thereto delivered by the Licensee to the Owner
(herein called the "Security") to guarantee the performance of the
Licensee's obligations under this license shall be maintained in effect
until such time as the Owner certifies in writing that such obligations
have been fully performed. So long as the Licensee is Her Majesty the
Queen in Right of the Province of British Columbia or a British Columbia
crown corporation, the Owner will waive the requirements of this
section.


7.2
In the event the Licensee defaults in the performance of any of its
obligations hereunder, the Owner may, in its sole discretion, sell, call
in and convert the Security, or any part of it, and such Security shall
be deemed to have been absolutely forfeited to the Owner.


7.3
The rights of the Owner under this Article shall be deemed to continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding the expiration or earlier
cancellation of this license.


7.4
Notwithstanding any amount of Security stated to be required under
section 7.1, the Owner may, acting reasonably, from time to time by
notice to the Licensee, demand the amount to be changed to that
specified in a notice and the Licensee shall, within 60 days of such
notice, change the Security to that specified and provide the Owner with
evidence of the change, except that while Security is waived under
section 7.1, this section shall not apply.


Article 8 – Notice


8.1
Whenever service of a notice or a document is required under this
license, the notice or documents shall be in writing and shall be deemed
to have been served if delivered to, or if sent by prepaid registered
mail addressed to, the Owner or the Licensee, as the case may be, at the
addresses specified for each on the first page of this license, and
where service is by registered mail the notice or document shall be
conclusively deemed to have been served on the eighth day after its
deposit in a Canada Post office at any place in Canada. If there is a
disruption in mail service caused by labour dispute, civil unrest or
other events beyond the control of the parties, between mailing and
actual receipt of such notice, the party sending such notice will
re-send by courier, fax or other electronic means and such notice will
only be effective if actually received.


8.2
Either party may, by notice in writing to the other, specify another
address for service of notices under this license and after another
address is specified under this section, notices shall be mailed to that
address in accordance with this Article.


Article 9 – Miscellaneous


9.1
No term, condition, covenant or other provision herein shall be
considered to have been waived by the Owner unless such waiver is
expressed in writing by the Owner. Any such waiver of any term,
condition, covenant or other provision herein shall not be construed as
or constitute a waiver of any further or other breach of the same or any
other term, condition, covenant, or other provision and the consent or
approval of the Owner to any act by the Licensee requiring the consent
or approval of the Owner shall not be considered to waive or render
unnecessary such consents or approvals to any subsequent similar act by
the Licensee.


9.2
No remedy conferred upon or reserved to the Owner is exclusive of any
other remedy herein or provided by law, but such remedy shall be
cumulative and shall be in addition to any other remedy herein or
hereafter existing at law, in equity, or by statute.


9.3
This license shall not entitle the Licensee to exclusive possession of
the Land and the Owner may, for any purpose, grant to others interests
in the Land or rights to enter on or use or occupy the Land, or may
otherwise authorize other persons to enter on or use or occupy the Land,
so long as the grant or authorization does not materially affect the
exercise of the Licensee's rights hereunder. The question of whether a
grant materially affects the exercise of the Licensee's rights hereunder
shall be determined by the Owner acting reasonably. If the Owner, by
written instrument, grants a license, right or interest to others to use
or occupy the Land, such grant will contain a provision identical to
subsection 4.1 (f) of this license obligating the new grantee to keep
the Land in a safe, clean and sanitary condition satisfactory to the
Owner.


9.4
The terms and provisions of this license shall extend to, be binding
upon and enure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their successors
and permitted assigns.


9.5
Time is of the essence in this agreement.


Article 10 – Dispute Resolution


10.1
In this Article,
"dispute"
means any dispute arising out of or in connection with this license or
in respect of any defined legal relationship associated with it or
derived from it.


10.2
The parties agree to attempt to resolve all disputes by negotiations
conducted in good faith and to provide timely disclosure of all relevant
facts, information and documents to further those negotiations.


10.3
If a dispute is not settled through direct negotiations either party may
request the British Columbia International Commercial Arbitration Centre
(BCICAC) to appoint a mediator to conduct a mediation under its
mediation rules of procedure.


10.4
If a dispute is not settled within 15 days of the appointment of the
mediator or any further period of time agreed to by the parties, the
dispute shall be referred to and finally resolved by arbitration before
a single arbitrator under the arbitration rules of procedure of the
BCICAC.


10.5
If the BCICAC is unavailable or unable to administer the mediation or
arbitration of a dispute under its rules of procedure, the parties will
select the rules of another institution.


Article 11 – Interpretation


11.1
In this license, unless the context otherwise requires, the singular
includes the plural and the masculine includes the feminine gender and a
corporation.


11.2
The captions and headings contained in this license are for convenience
only and are not to be construed as defining or in any way limiting the
scope or intent of the provisions herein.


11.3
If any section of this license or any part of a section is found to be
illegal or unenforceable, that part or section, as the case may be,
shall be considered separate and severable and the remaining parts and
sections of this license shall not be affected thereby and shall be
enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.


IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this license as of the day
and year first above written.





SIGNED by a duly authorized signatory of

)



)


in the presence of:
)



____________________

Name


)

)


____________________

Authorized Signatory




____________________

Address


)

)



____________________
)



)







SIGNED by a duly authorized signatory of

)



)


in the presence of:
)



____________________

Name


)

)


____________________

Authorized Signatory




____________________

Address


)

)



____________________
)



)




LEGAL DESCRIPTION SCHEDULE

1. Legal Description
2. Sketch Plan

SPECIAL PROVISOS SCHEDULE

Special Provisos:

(1) The Licensee shall comply with the provisions of his Radio Station
License issued by Communications Canada and any subsequent amendments to
that license.


(2) The Licensee shall inform the Owner of any amendments to his Radio
Station License.




Appendix C-2

Document 3




License of Occupation for Communication Site

With Utility Access



THIS AGREEMENT made this __________ day of ____________________ , 199

BETWEEN:

NISG̱A'A NATION
, of


____________________

(the "Owner")

AND:

of ____________________

(the "Licensee")


Whereas the Owner has agreed to grant to the Licensee a license to enter
on and use that parcel of land (the "Land") located generally in the
vicinity of ____________________ and described in the schedule attached
and entitled "Legal Description"; and


Whereas the Owner has agreed to grant to the Licensee a license over a
portion (the "Utility Area") of lands described in the schedule attached
and entitled "Utility License" for the purpose of providing a powerline
to the Land;


Now therefore in consideration of the fee to be paid by, and the
covenants of, the Licensee, the parties agree as follows:


Article 1 – Grant of License


1.1
The Owner, on the terms set forth herein, hereby grants to the Licensee:


(a) a license to enter on and use the Land for the purpose of
constructing and maintaining for communication purposes any building,
tower, road, antennae, powerline or other physical infrastructure shown
in the site plan and site elevation drawing forming part of the Legal
Description Schedule (the "Civil Infrastructure"); and


(b) a license to enter on and use the Utility Area, with or without
equipment, machinery and materials as reasonably required by the
Licensee, to construct, instal, operate, maintain, repair, replace and
use powerlines and all ancillary works on the Utility Area as reasonably
required to provide power to the Land (the licenses in subsections 1.1
(a) and (b) are collectively "the License").


Article 2 – Duration


2.1
The duration of the License and the rights herein granted shall be for a
term of 20 years commencing on the day of , 199 (the "Commencement
Date") unless cancelled in accordance with Article 6.


2.2
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this License, so long as:


(a) the Licensee is not in default of any of the material terms or
conditions of this License; and


(b) the Licensee has given the Owner, not more than · days prior to the
expiration of the term herein granted, notice in writing of the
Licensee's wish to re-apply for a new license to enter on and use the
Land and the Utility Area


the Owner may agree to offer a new license to the Licensee by notice to
the Licensee, in writing, on the terms and conditions determined by the
Owner and contained in the notice. The Licensee shall have a period of
60 days from the date of receipt of the notice from the Owner to accept
a new License to enter on and use the Land and the Utility Area by
executing the new License contained in the notice and delivering it to
the Owner.


Article 3 – License Fee


3.1
The Licensee shall pay to the Owner an annual License fee during the
term of this License, in advance, as follows:


(a) during the first five years of the term of this License (the
"Initial Fee Period"), the Licensee shall pay to the Owner:

(i) on the Commencement Date, the sum of · ; and

(ii) on each annual anniversary of the Commencement Date during the
Initial Fee Period, a sum equal to the greater of:


(1) the annual License fee for the immediately preceding year; or


(2) the amount which would be payable on that date under the
then-existing policies of the Province of British Columbia with respect
to the payment of rent for communication sites located on similar Crown
Land (the "Provincial Policies"); and


(b) during each subsequent five year period over the term of this
License (a "Subsequent Fee Period"), the Licensee shall pay to the Owner
on each annual anniversary of the Commencement Date a sum equal to the
greatest of:


(i) the annual License fee for the immediately preceding year,


(ii) the amount which would be payable on that date under the
then-existing Provincial Policies, or


(iii) the annual fair market rent for the Subsequent Fee Period, if that
annual fair market rent has been determined:


(1) by written agreement between the Owner and the Licensee prior to the
Subsequent Fee Period; or


(2) pursuant to the dispute resolution process set out in Article 10,
invoked by the Owner or the Licensee prior to the Subsequent Fee Period.


3.2
In this Article,
"annual fair market rent"
means the fee which a willing licensee at arm's length from the Owner
would pay to the Owner in respect of the Land excluding any allocation
of value to any fixtures or improvements located on the Land:

(a) belonging to the Licensee; or
(b) not available for use by the Licensee.

Article 4 – Covenants of the Licensee


4.1
The Licensee covenants with the Owner:


(a) to pay the License fee due at the address of the Owner set out above
or at such other place as the Owner may specify from time to time by the
giving of notice to the Licensee in accordance with Article 8;


(b) to pay and discharge when due all applicable taxes, levies, charges
and assessments now or hereafter assessed, levied or charged that relate
to the Land or to the Utility Area or any of the Licensee's improvements
thereon (the "Realty Taxes") that the Licensee is liable to pay;


(c) to observe, abide by and comply with all applicable laws, bylaws,
orders, directions, ordinances and regulations of any competent
government authority in any way affecting the Land or the Utility Area
and improvements situate thereon, or their use and occupation;


(d) not to commit or suffer any wilful or voluntary waste, spoil or
destruction on the Land or the Utility Area or do or suffer to be done
thereon by its employees, contractors, agents, invitees or anyone for
whom the Licensee is responsible at law anything that may be or become a
nuisance to the Owner or to the occupiers of adjoining land;


(e) to deliver to the Owner from time to time, upon demand, proof of
insurance provided for in subsection (k), receipts or other evidence of
payment of Realty Taxes, insurance premiums and other monetary
obligations of the Licensee required to be observed by the Licensee
pursuant to this License;


(f) to indemnify and save harmless the Owner against all losses,
damages, costs and liabilities, including fees of solicitors and other
professional advisors, arising out of:


(i) any breach, violation or non-performance of any covenant, condition
or agreement in this license by the Licensee, or


(ii) any personal injury, death or property damage arising out of the
Licensee's use and occupation of the Land or the Utility Area


and the Owner may add the amount of such losses, damages, costs and
liabilities to the Fee and the amount so added shall be payable to the
Owner immediately;


(g) to keep the Land and the Utility Area in a safe, clean and sanitary
condition satisfactory to the Owner acting reasonably, and to make safe,
clean and sanitary any portion of the Land and the Utility Area or any
improvement thereon that the Owner, acting reasonably, may direct by
notice in writing to the Licensee;


(h) to permit the Owner or its authorized representative to enter upon
the Land or the Utility Area at any time to examine its condition;


(i) to use and occupy the Land and the Utility Area in accordance with
the provisions of this License including those set forth in the schedule
attached and entitled "Special Provisos";


(j) on the expiration or at the earlier cancellation of this License:


(i) to quit peaceably and deliver possession of the Land and the Utility
Area to the Owner,


(ii) to remove from the Land and the Utility Area all above-ground
buildings, machinery, plant equipment and apparatus and all other
improvements to or things on the Land or the Utility Area erected or
placed on the Land or the Utility Area by the Licensee, and


(iii) to restore the surface of the Land and the Utility Area to the
satisfaction of the Owner acting reasonably,


and to the extent necessary, this covenant shall survive the expiration
or cancellation of this License;


(k) to effect and keep in force during the term insurance protecting the
Owner and the Licensee (without any rights of cross-claim or subrogation
against the Owner) against claims for personal injury, death, property
damage or third party or public liability claims arising from any
accident or occurrence on the Land or the Utility Area to an amount not
less than $1,000,000.00; except, however, that the Owner may, in its
sole discretion, waive the requirements of this subsection on the
delivery to the Owner of evidence that the Licensee is self insured;


(l) notwithstanding subsection (k), the Owner may from time to time
notify the Licensee that the amount of insurance posted by the Licensee
pursuant to that subsection be changed and the Licensee shall, within 60
days of receiving such notice, cause the amount of insurance posted,
pursuant to subsection (k) to be changed to the amount specified by the
Owner, acting reasonably, in the notice and deliver to the Owner written
confirmation of the change, except that when the Licensee is
self-insuring this section shall not apply; and


(m) not to interfere with the activities, works or other improvements of
any other person who enters on or uses or occupies the Land or the
Utility Area under a subsequent right or interest granted by the Owner,
or who is otherwise authorized by the Owner to enter on or use or occupy
the Land or the Utility Area, in accordance with Section 9.3; and


(n) on request of the Owner, to provide to the Owner an inventory of
communication uses sufficient to allow the calculation of fees under the
Provincial Policies.


Article 5 – Assignment


5.1
The Licensee shall not assign this License or grant a sublicense of any
part of the Land or the Utility Area without the prior written consent
of the Owner, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.


5.2
Notwithstanding section 5.1, the Licensee may, without the prior written
consent of the Owner, assign its interest in all or a part of the Land
and the Utility Area to an affiliate (as defined in the
Company Act,
RSBC 1996) of the Licensee provided that the Licensee gives written
notice of any such change at least 120 days prior to the next
anniversary date of the term of this License.


5.3
No assignment or sublicensing pursuant to sections 5.1 or 5.2, nor the
Owner's consent thereto, will relieve the Licensee from the observance
and performance of the Licensee's obligations contained in this License.


Article 6 – Cancellation


6.1
If the Licensee fails to observe or perform any term contained herein,
and such failure continues after the giving of the written notice by the
Owner to the Licensee of the nature of the failure for a period of:

(a) 30 days; or

(b) 150 days, if the failure because of its nature would reasonably
require more than 30 days to cure, and provided that the Licensee is
proceeding diligently and continuously to cure the failure throughout;


then the Owner may cancel this License and, notwithstanding subsection
4.1 (j), any fixtures to the Land and Utility Area shall become, at the
discretion of the Owner, the property of the Owner.


6.2
If this License is taken in execution or attachment by any person, or
the Licensee commits an act of bankruptcy, becomes insolvent, is
petitioned into bankruptcy or voluntarily enters into an arrangement
with his creditors, the Owner may, on 90 days written notice to the
Licensee, cancel this License and the rights herein granted.


6.3
If the Licensee ceases to use the Land or the Utility Area for the
purposes permitted herein and the Licensee does not recommence its use
of the Land or the Utility Area within 180 days of receipt of written
notice from the Owner, the Owner may immediately cancel that portion of
this License and the rights herein granted that relates to the Land or
the Utility Area as the case may be.


6.4
If the Owner requires a portion of the Land or the Utility Area for a
public purpose, the Owner may, in accordance with section 6.5 and on 180
days written notice to the Licensee, cancel this License and the rights
herein granted with respect to no more than 5% of the whole of the Land,
no more than 5% of the whole of the Utility Area, or no more than 5% of
the combined area, as the case may be.


6.5
Concurrently with the notice referred to in section 6.4, the Owner will
give the Licensee written notice that the Owner will, at its cost,
relocate the Licensee's structures and improvements that are materially
affected by the cancellation in Section 6.4 to a different location
on the Land or the Utility Area, as the case may be, or to a location on
other land immediately adjacent to the Land or the Utility Area (the
"New Location"). The New Location must, in the reasonable opinion of the
Licensee, be of sufficient size to accommodate the Licensee's structures
and improvements and be equally suitable for the purposes of the
Licensee. The Owner will pay for any reasonable costs of moving the
Licensee and its structures and improvements to the New Location. If the
Licensee's structures and improvements cannot be moved to the New
Location, the Owner will pay to the Licensee the reasonable costs of
constructing new improvements on the New Location. As full compensation
for all other costs, expenses and damages that the Licensee may incur in
connection with the relocation, including disruption and loss of
business, the parties shall agree on a lump sum payment and failing
agreement, the matter shall be referred to arbitration pursuant to
Article 10. All other terms and conditions of this License will apply to
the New Location for the balance of the original term.


6.6
The Licensee may deliver a written notice to the Owner cancelling this
License, in whole or with respect to the Utility Area only, and
thereafter the License and the rights herein granted will, in whole or
with respect to the Utility Area only, terminate 180 days after the date
of receipt by the Owner of such written notice.


6.7
Notwithstanding subsection 4.1 (j), any building, machinery, plant,
equipment, apparatus or other improvements to the Land or the Utility
Area (collectively, the "Improvements") that remains unremoved from the
Land or the Utility Area:


(a) upon the cancellation of this License pursuant to section 6.1,
section 6.4 or section 6.6; or


(b) thirty days after the expiration of this License or the cancellation
of this License pursuant to section 6.2 or section 6.3 (provided that if
further time is reasonably required because of the nature of the
Improvements or because of other constraints beyond the control of the
Licensee, including weather, and provided that the Licensee is
proceeding diligently and continuously to remove such Improvements, the
30 day time for removal will be extended to 150 days after the
expiration or cancellation of this License),


shall, at the discretion of the Owner, be forfeited to and become the
property of the Owner.


6.8
If the Owner elects to assume ownership of any above-ground Improvements
pursuant to section 6.7, the Owner may remove them from the Land or the
Utility Area and the Licensee shall, on demand, compensate the Owner for
all costs incurred by the Owner respecting their removal.


6.9
The rights of the Owner under section 6.7 and section 6.8 shall be
deemed to survive the expiration or earlier cancellation of this
License.


Article 7 – Security


7.1
The security in the sum of $· and all rights, privileges, benefits and
interests accruing thereto delivered by the Licensee to the Owner
(herein called the "Security") to guarantee the performance of the
Licensee's obligations under this License shall be maintained in effect
until such time as the Owner certifies in writing that such obligations
have been fully performed. The Owner may, in its sole discretion, waive
the requirements of this section.


7.2
In the event the Licensee defaults in the performance of any of its
obligations hereunder, the Owner may, in its sole discretion, sell, call
in and convert the Security, or any part of it, and such Security shall
be deemed to have been absolutely forfeited to the Owner.


7.3
The rights of the Owner under this Article shall be deemed to continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding the expiration or earlier
cancellation of this License.


7.4
Notwithstanding any amount of Security stated to be required under
section 7.1, the Owner may, acting reasonably, from time to time by
notice to the Licensee, demand the amount to be changed to that
specified in a notice and the Licensee shall, within 60 days of such
notice, change the Security to that specified and provide the Owner with
evidence of the change, except that while Security is waived under
section 7.1, this section shall not apply.


Article 8 – Notice


8.1
Whenever service of a notice or a document is required under this
License, the notice or documents shall be in writing and shall be deemed
to have been served if delivered to, or if sent by prepaid registered
mail addressed to, the Owner or the Licensee, as the case may be, at the
addresses specified for each on the first page of this License, and
where service is by registered mail the notice or document shall be
conclusively deemed to have been served on the eighth day after its
deposit in a Canada Post office at any place in Canada. If there is a
disruption in mail service caused by labour dispute, civil unrest or
other events beyond the control of the parties, between mailing and
actual receipt of such notice, the party sending such notice will
re-send by courier, fax or other electronic means and such notice will
only be effective if actually received.


8.2
Either party may, by notice in writing to the other, specify another
address for service of notices under this License and after another
address has been specified under this section, notices shall be mailed
to that address in accordance with this Article.


Article 9 – Miscellaneous


9.1
No term, condition, covenant or other provision herein shall be
considered to have been waived by the Owner unless such waiver is
expressed in writing by the Owner. Any such waiver of any term,
condition, covenant or other provision herein shall not be construed as
or constitute a waiver of any further or other breach of the same or any
other term, condition, covenant, or other provision and the consent or
approval of the Owner to any act by the Licensee requiring the consent
or approval of the Owner shall not be considered to waive or render
unnecessary such consents or approvals to any subsequent similar act by
the Licensee.


9.2
No remedy conferred upon or reserved to the Owner is exclusive of any
other remedy herein or provided by law, but such remedy shall be
cumulative and shall be in addition to any other remedy herein or
hereafter existing at law, in equity, or by statute.


9.3
This License shall not entitle the Licensee to exclusive possession of
the Land or the Utility Area and the Owner may, for any purpose, grant
to others interests in the Land or the Utility Area, or rights to enter
on or use or occupy the Land or the Utility Area, or may otherwise
authorize other persons to enter on or use or occupy the Land or the
Utility Area, so long as the grant or authorization does not materially
affect the exercise of the Licensee's rights hereunder. The question of
whether a grant materially affects the exercise of the Licensee's rights
hereunder shall be determined by the Owner acting reasonably. If the
Owner, by written instrument, grants a license, right or interest to
others to use or occupy the Land or the Utility Area, such grant will
contain a provision identical to subsection 4.1 (g) of this License
obligating the new grantee to keep the Land or the Utility Area in a
safe, clean and sanitary condition satisfactory to the Owner.


9.4
The terms and provisions of this License shall extend to, be binding
upon and enure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their successors
and permitted assigns.


9.5
Time is of the essence in this agreement.


Article 10 – Dispute Resolution


10.1
In this Article,
"dispute"
means any dispute arising out of or in connection with this License or
in respect of any defined legal relationship associated with it or
derived from it.


10.2
The parties agree to attempt to resolve all disputes by negotiations
conducted in good faith and to provide timely disclosure of all relevant
facts, information and documents to further those negotiations.


10.3
If a dispute is not settled through direct negotiations either party may
request the British Columbia International Commercial Arbitration Centre
(BCICAC) to appoint a mediator to conduct a mediation under its
mediation rules of procedure.


10.4
If a dispute is not settled within 15 days of the appointment of the
mediator or any further period of time agreed to by the parties, the
dispute shall be referred to and finally resolved by arbitration before
a single arbitrator under the arbitration rules of procedure of the
BCICAC.


10.5
If the BCICAC is unavailable or unable to administer the mediation or
arbitration of a dispute under its rules of procedure, the parties will
select the rules of another institution.


Article 11 – Interpretation


11.1
In this License, unless the context otherwise requires, the singular
includes the plural and the masculine includes the feminine gender and a
corporation.


11.2
The captions and headings contained in this License are for convenience
only and are not to be construed as defining or in any way limiting the
scope or intent of the provisions herein.


11.3
If any section of this License or any part of a section is found to be
illegal or unenforceable, that part or section, as the case may be,
shall be considered separate and severable and the remaining parts and
sections of this License shall not be affected thereby and shall be
enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.


IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this License as of the day
and year first above written.





SIGNED by a duly authorized signatory of

)



)


in the presence of:
)



____________________

Name


)

)


____________________

Authorized Signatory




____________________

Address


)

)



____________________
)



)







SIGNED by a duly authorized signatory of

)



)


in the presence of:
)



____________________

Name


)

)


____________________

Authorized Signatory




____________________

Address


)

)



____________________
)



)




LEGAL DESCRIPTION SCHEDULE

1. Legal Description
2. Sketch Plan

SPECIAL PROVISOS SCHEDULE

Special Provisos:

(1) The Licensee shall comply with the provisions of his Radio Station
License issued by Communications Canada and any subsequent amendments to
that license.


(2) The Licensee shall inform the Owner of any amendments to his Radio
Station License.




Appendix C-2

Document 4




License of Occupation for Communication

Site With Road Access



THIS AGREEMENT made this __________ day of ____________________ , 199

BETWEEN:

NISG̱A'A NATION
, of


____________________

(the "Owner")

AND:

of ____________________

(the "Licensee")


Whereas the Owner has agreed to grant to the Licensee a license to enter
on and use that parcel of land (the "Land") located generally in the
vicinity of ____________________ and described in the schedule attached
and entitled "Legal Description"; and


Whereas the Owner has agreed to grant to the Licensee a license to pass
and repass over a portion (the "Access Area") of lands described in the
schedule attached and entitled "Access License" for the purpose of
obtaining access to the Land;


Now therefore in consideration of the fee to be paid by, and the
covenants of, the Licensee, the parties agree as follows:


Article 1 – Grant of License


1.1
The Owner, on the terms set forth herein, hereby grants to the Licensee:


(a) a license to enter on and use the Land for the purpose of
constructing and maintaining for communication purposes any building,
tower, road, antennae, powerline or other physical infrastructure shown
in the site plan and site elevation drawing forming part of the Legal
Description Schedule (the "Civil Infrastructure"); and


(b) a license to pass and repass over the Access Area, with or without
equipment, machinery and materials as reasonably required by the
Licensee, and to construct, maintain, repair, replace and use trails,
roads and bridges on the Access Area as reasonably required to obtain
access to the Land (the licenses in subsections 1.1 (a) and (b) are
collectively "the License").


Article 2 – Duration


2.1
The duration of the License and the rights herein granted shall be for a
term of 20 years commencing on the
day of , 199 (the "Commencement
Date") unless cancelled in accordance with Article 6.


2.2
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this License, so long as:


(a) the Licensee is not in default of any of the material terms or
conditions of this License; and


(b) the Licensee has given the Owner, not more than · days prior to the
expiration of the term herein granted, notice in writing of the
Licensee's wish to re-apply for a new license to enter on and use the
Land and the Access Area


the Owner may agree to offer a new license to the Licensee by notice to
the Licensee, in writing, on the terms and conditions determined by the
Owner and contained in the notice. The Licensee shall have a period of
60 days from the date of receipt of the notice from the Owner to accept
a new License to enter on and use the Land and the Access Area by
executing the new License contained in the notice and delivering it to
the Owner.


Article 3 – License Fee


3.1
The Licensee shall pay to the Owner an annual License fee during the
term of this License, in advance, as follows:


(a) during the first five years of the term of this License (the
"Initial Fee Period"), the Licensee shall pay to the Owner:

(i) on the Commencement Date, the sum of · ; and

(ii) on each annual anniversary of the Commencement Date during the
Initial Fee Period, a sum equal to the greater of:


(1) the annual License fee for the immediately preceding year; or


(2) the amount which would be payable on that date under the
then-existing policies of the Province of British Columbia with respect
to the payment of rent for communication sites located on similar Crown
Land (the "Provincial Policies"); and


(b) during each subsequent five year period over the term of this
License (a "Subsequent Fee Period"), the Licensee shall pay to the Owner
on each annual anniversary of the Commencement Date a sum equal to the
greatest of:


(i) the annual License fee for the immediately preceding year,


(ii) the amount which would be payable on that date under the
then-existing Provincial Policies, or


(iii) the annual fair market rent for the Subsequent Fee Period, if that
annual fair market rent has been determined:


(1) by written agreement between the Owner and the Licensee prior to the
Subsequent Fee Period; or


(2) pursuant to the dispute resolution process set out in Article 10,
invoked by the Owner or the Licensee prior to the Subsequent Fee Period.


3.2
In this Article,
"annual fair market rent"
means the fee which a willing licensee at arm's length from the Owner
would pay to the Owner in respect of the Land excluding any allocation
of value to any fixtures or improvements located on the Land:

(a) belonging to the Licensee; or
(b) not available for use by the Licensee.

Article 4 – Covenants of the Licensee


4.1
The Licensee covenants with the Owner:


(a) to pay the License fee due at the address of the Owner set out above
or at such other place as the Owner may specify from time to time by the
giving of notice to the Licensee in accordance with Article 8;


(b) to pay and discharge when due all applicable taxes, levies, charges
and assessments now or hereafter assessed, levied or charged that relate
to the Land or to the Access Area or any of the Licensee's improvements
thereon (the "Realty Taxes") that the Licensee is liable to pay;


(c) to observe, abide by and comply with all applicable laws, bylaws,
orders, directions, ordinances and regulations of any competent
government authority in any way affecting the Land or the Access Area
and improvements situate thereon, or their use and occupation;


(d) not to commit or suffer any wilful or voluntary waste, spoil or
destruction on the Land or the Access Area or do or suffer to be done
thereon by its employees, contractors, agents, invitees or anyone for
whom the Licensee is responsible at law anything that may be or become a
nuisance to the Owner or to the occupiers of adjoining land;


(e) to deliver to the Owner from time to time, upon demand, proof of
insurance provided for in subsection (k), receipts or other evidence of
payment of Realty Taxes, insurance premiums and other monetary
obligations of the Licensee required to be observed by the Licensee
pursuant to this License;


(f) to indemnify and save harmless the Owner against all losses,
damages, costs and liabilities, including fees of solicitors and other
professional advisors, arising out of:


(i) any breach, violation or non-performance of any covenant, condition
or agreement in this license by the Licensee, or


(ii) any personal injury, death or property damage arising out of the
Licensee's use and occupation of the Land or the Access Area


and the Owner may add the amount of such losses, damages, costs and
liabilities to the Fee and the amount so added shall be payable to the
Owner immediately;


(g) to keep the Land and the Access Area in a safe, clean and sanitary
condition satisfactory to the Owner acting reasonably, and to make safe,
clean and sanitary any portion of the Land and the Access Area or any
improvement thereon that the Owner, acting reasonably, may direct by
notice in writing to the Licensee;


(h) to permit the Owner or its authorized representative to enter upon
the Land or the Access Area at any time to examine its condition;


(i) to use and occupy the Land and the Access Area in accordance with
the provisions of this License including those set forth in the schedule
attached and entitled "Special Provisos";


(j) on the expiration or at the earlier cancellation of this License:


(i) to quit peaceably and deliver possession of the Land and the Access
Area to the Owner,


(ii) to remove from the Land and the Access Area all above-ground
buildings, machinery, plant equipment and apparatus and all other
improvements to or things on the Land or the Access Area erected or
placed on the Land or the Access Area by the Licensee, and


(iii) to restore the surface of the Land and the Access Area to the
satisfaction of the Owner acting reasonably,


and to the extent necessary, this covenant shall survive the expiration
or cancellation of this License;


(k) to effect and keep in force during the term insurance protecting the
Owner and the Licensee (without any rights of cross-claim or subrogation
against the Owner) against claims for personal injury, death, property
damage or third party or public liability claims arising from any
accident or occurrence on the Land or the Access Area to an amount not
less than $1,000,000.00; except, however, that the Owner may, in its
sole discretion, waive the requirements of this subsection on the
delivery to the Owner of evidence that the Licensee is self insured;


(l) notwithstanding subsection (k), the Owner may from time to time
notify the Licensee that the amount of insurance posted by the Licensee
pursuant to that subsection be changed and the Licensee shall, within 60
days of receiving such notice, cause the amount of insurance posted,
pursuant to subsection (k) to be changed to the amount specified by the
Owner, acting reasonably, in the notice and deliver to the Owner written
confirmation of the change, except that when the Licensee is
self-insuring this section shall not apply; and


(m) not to interfere with the activities, works or other improvements of
any other person who enters on or uses or occupies the Land or the
Access Area under a subsequent right or interest granted by the Owner,
or who is otherwise authorized by the Owner to enter on or use or occupy
the Land or the Access Area, in accordance with Section 9.3; and


(n) on request of the Owner, to provide to the Owner an inventory of
communication uses sufficient to allow the calculation of fees under the
Provincial Policies.


Article 5 – Assignment


5.1
The Licensee shall not assign this License or grant a sublicense of any
part of the Land or the Access Area without the prior written consent of
the Owner, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.


5.2
Notwithstanding section 5.1, the Licensee may, without the prior written
consent of the Owner, assign its interest in all or a part of the Land
and the Access Area to an affiliate (as defined in the
Company Act
, RSBC 1996) of the Licensee provided that the Licensee gives written
notice of any such change at least 120 days prior to the next
anniversary date of the term of this License.


5.3
No assignment or sublicensing pursuant to sections 5.1 or 5.2, nor the
Owner's consent thereto, will relieve the Licensee from the observance
and performance of the Licensee's obligations contained in this License.


Article 6 – Cancellation


6.1
If the Licensee fails to observe or perform any term contained herein,
and such failure continues after the giving of the written notice by the
Owner to the Licensee of the nature of the failure for a period of:

(a) 30 days; or

(b) 150 days, if the failure because of its nature would reasonably
require more than 30 days to cure, and provided that the Licensee is
proceeding diligently and continuously to cure the failure throughout;


then the Owner may cancel this License and, notwithstanding subsection
4.1 (j), any fixtures to the Land and Access Area shall become, at the
discretion of the Owner, the property of the Owner.


6.2
If this License is taken in execution or attachment by any person, or
the Licensee commits an act of bankruptcy, becomes insolvent, is
petitioned into bankruptcy or voluntarily enters into an arrangement
with his creditors, the Owner may, on 90 days written notice to the
Licensee, cancel this License and the rights herein granted.


6.3
If the Licensee ceases to use the Land or the Access Area for the
purposes permitted herein and the Licensee does not recommence its use
of the Land or the Access Area within 180 days of receipt of written
notice from the Owner, the Owner may immediately cancel that portion of
this License and the rights herein granted that relates to the Land or
the Access Area as the case may be.


6.4
If the Owner requires a portion of the Land or the Access Area for a
public purpose, the Owner may, in accordance with section 6.5 and on 180
days written notice to the Licensee, cancel this License and the rights
herein granted with respect to no more than 5% of the whole of the Land,
or no more than 5% of the whole of the Access Area, or no more than 5%
of the combined area, as the case may be.


6.5
Concurrently with the notice referred to in section 6.4, the Owner will
give the Licensee written notice that the Owner will, at its cost,
relocate the Licensee's structures and improvements that are materially
affected by the cancellation in Section 6.4 to a different location
on the Land or the Access Area, as the case may be, or to a location on
other land immediately adjacent to the Land or the Access Area (the "New
Location"). The New Location must, in the reasonable opinion of the
Licensee, be of sufficient size to accommodate the Licensee's structures
and improvements and be equally suitable for the purposes of the
Licensee. The Owner will pay for any reasonable costs of moving the
Licensee and its structures and improvements to the New Location. If the
Licensee's structures and improvements cannot be moved to the New
Location, the Owner will pay to the Licensee the reasonable costs of
constructing new improvements on the New Location. As full compensation
for all other costs, expenses and damages that the Licensee may incur in
connection with the relocation, including disruption and loss of
business, the parties shall agree on a lump sum payment and failing
agreement, the matter shall be referred to arbitration pursuant to
Article 10. All other terms and conditions of this License will apply to
the New Location for the balance of the original term.


6.6
The Licensee may deliver a written notice to the Owner cancelling this
License, in whole or with respect to the Access Area only, and
thereafter the License and the rights herein granted will, in whole or
with respect to the Access Area only, terminate 180 days after the date
of receipt by the Owner of such written notice.


6.7
Notwithstanding subsection 4.1 (j), any building, machinery, plant,
equipment, apparatus or other improvements to the Land or the Access
Area (collectively, the "Improvements") that remains unremoved from the
Land or the Access Area:


(a) upon the cancellation of this License pursuant to section 6.1,
section 6.4 or section 6.6; or


(b) thirty days after the expiration of this License or the cancellation
of this License pursuant to section 6.2 or section 6.3 (provided that if
further time is reasonably required because of the nature of the
Improvements or because of other constraints beyond the control of the
Licensee, including weather, and provided that the Licensee is
proceeding diligently and continuously to remove such Improvements, the
30 day time for removal will be extended to 150 days after the
expiration or cancellation of this License),


shall, at the discretion of the Owner, be forfeited to and become the
property of the Owner.


6.8
If the Owner elects to assume ownership of any above-ground Improvements
pursuant to section 6.7, the Owner may remove them from the Land or the
Access Area and the Licensee shall, on demand, compensate the Owner for
all costs incurred by the Owner respecting their removal.


6.9
The rights of the Owner under section 6.7 and section 6.8 shall be
deemed to survive the expiration or earlier cancellation of this
License.


Article 7 – Security


7.1
The security in the sum of $· and all rights, privileges, benefits and
interests accruing thereto delivered by the Licensee to the Owner
(herein called the "Security") to guarantee the performance of the
Licensee's obligations under this License shall be maintained in effect
until such time as the Owner certifies in writing that such obligations
have been fully performed. The Owner may, in its sole discretion, waive
the requirements of this section.


7.2
In the event the Licensee defaults in the performance of any of its
obligations hereunder, the Owner may, in its sole discretion, sell, call
in and convert the Security, or any part of it, and such Security shall
be deemed to have been absolutely forfeited to the Owner.


7.3
The rights of the Owner under this Article shall be deemed to continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding the expiration or earlier
cancellation of this License.


7.4
Notwithstanding any amount of Security stated to be required under
section 7.1, the Owner may, acting reasonably, from time to time by
notice to the Licensee, demand the amount to be changed to that
specified in a notice and the Licensee shall, within 60 days of such
notice, change the Security to that specified and provide the Owner with
evidence of the change, except that while Security is waived under
section 7.1, this section shall not apply.


Article 8 – Notice


8.1
Whenever service of a notice or a document is required under this
License, the notice or documents shall be in writing and shall be deemed
to have been served if delivered to, or if sent by prepaid registered
mail addressed to, the Owner or the Licensee, as the case may be, at the
addresses specified for each on the first page of this License, and
where service is by registered mail the notice or document shall be
conclusively deemed to have been served on the eighth day after its
deposit in a Canada Post office at any place in Canada. If there is a
disruption in mail service caused by labour dispute, civil unrest or
other events beyond the control of the parties, between mailing and
actual receipt of such notice, the party sending such notice will
re-send by courier, fax or other electronic means and such notice will
only be effective if actually received.


8.2
Either party may, by notice in writing to the other, specify another
address for service of notices under this License and after another
address has been specified under this section, notices shall be mailed
to that address in accordance with this Article.


Article 9 – Miscellaneous


9.1
No term, condition, covenant or other provision herein shall be
considered to have been waived by the Owner unless such waiver is
expressed in writing by the Owner. Any such waiver of any term,
condition, covenant or other provision herein shall not be construed as
or constitute a waiver of any further or other breach of the same or any
other term, condition, covenant, or other provision and the consent or
approval of the Owner to any act by the Licensee requiring the consent
or approval of the Owner shall not be considered to waive or render
unnecessary such consents or approvals to any subsequent similar act by
the Licensee.


9.2
No remedy conferred upon or reserved to the Owner is exclusive of any
other remedy herein or provided by law, but such remedy shall be
cumulative and shall be in addition to any other remedy herein or
hereafter existing at law, in equity, or by statute.


9.3
This License shall not entitle the Licensee to exclusive possession of
the Land or the Access Area and the Owner may, for any purpose, grant to
others interests in the Land or the Access Area, or rights to enter on
or use or occupy the Land or the Access Area, or may otherwise authorize
other persons to enter on or use or occupy the Land or the Access Area,
so long as the grant or authorization does not materially affect the
exercise of the Licensee's rights hereunder. The question of whether a
grant materially affects the exercise of the Licensee's rights hereunder
shall be determined by the Owner acting reasonably. If the Owner, by
written instrument, grants a license, right or interest to others to use
or occupy the Land or the Access Area, such grant will contain a
provision identical to subsection 4.1 (g) of this License obligating the
new grantee to keep the Land or the Access Area in a safe, clean and
sanitary condition satisfactory to the Owner.


9.4
The terms and provisions of this License shall extend to, be binding
upon and enure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their successors
and permitted assigns.


9.5
Time is of the essence in this agreement.


Article 10 – Dispute Resolution


10.1
In this Article,
"dispute"
means any dispute arising out of or in connection with this License or
in respect of any defined legal relationship associated with it or
derived from it.


10.2
The parties agree to attempt to resolve all disputes by negotiations
conducted in good faith and to provide timely disclosure of all relevant
facts, information and documents to further those negotiations.


10.3
If a dispute is not settled through direct negotiations either party may
request the British Columbia International Commercial Arbitration Centre
(BCICAC) to appoint a mediator to conduct a mediation under its
mediation rules of procedure.


10.4
If a dispute is not settled within 15 days of the appointment of the
mediator or any further period of time agreed to by the parties, the
dispute shall be referred to and finally resolved by arbitration before
a single arbitrator under the arbitration rules of procedure of the
BCICAC.


10.5
If the BCICAC is unavailable or unable to administer the mediation or
arbitration of a dispute under its rules of procedure, the parties will
select the rules of another institution.


Article 11 – Interpretation


11.1
In this License, unless the context otherwise requires, the singular
includes the plural and the masculine includes the feminine gender and a
corporation.


11.2
The captions and headings contained in this License are for convenience
only and are not to be construed as defining or in any way limiting the
scope or intent of the provisions herein.


11.3
If any section of this License or any part of a section is found to be
illegal or unenforceable, that part or section, as the case may be,
shall be considered separate and severable and the remaining parts and
sections of this License shall not be affected thereby and shall be
enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.


IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this License as of the day
and year first above written.





SIGNED by a duly authorized signatory of

)



)


in the presence of:
)



____________________

Name


)

)


____________________

Authorized Signatory




____________________

Address


)

)



____________________
)



)







SIGNED by a duly authorized signatory of

)



)


in the presence of:
)



____________________

Name


)

)


____________________

Authorized Signatory




____________________

Address


)

)



____________________
)



)




LEGAL DESCRIPTION SCHEDULE

1. Legal Description
2. Sketch Plan

SPECIAL PROVISOS SCHEDULE

Special Provisos:

(1) The Licensee shall comply with the provisions of his Radio Station
License issued by Communications Canada and any subsequent amendments to
that license.


(2) The Licensee shall inform the Owner of any amendments to his Radio
Station License.




Appendix C-2

Document 5




License of Occupation for Communication Site

With Road Access and Utility Access



THIS AGREEMENT made this __________ day of ____________________, 199

BETWEEN:

NISG̱A'A NATION
, of


____________________

(the "Owner")

AND:

of ____________________

(the "Licensee")


Whereas the Owner has agreed to grant to the Licensee a license to enter
on and use that parcel of land (the "Land") located generally in the
vicinity of ________________ and described in the schedule attached and
entitled "Legal Description"; and


Whereas the Owner has agreed to grant to the Licensee a license to pass
and repass over a portion (the "Access Area") of lands described in the
schedule attached and entitled "Access License" for the purpose of
obtaining access to the Land;


Whereas the Owner has agreed to grant to the Licensee a license over a
portion (the "Utility Area") of lands described in the schedule attached
and entitled "Utility License" for the purpose of providing a powerline
to the Land;


Now therefore in consideration of the fee to be paid by, and the
covenants of, the Licensee, the parties agree as follows:


Article 1 – Grant of License


1.1
The Owner, on the terms set forth herein, hereby grants to the Licensee:


(a) a license to enter on and use the Land for the purpose of
constructing and maintaining for communication purposes any building,
tower, road, antennae, powerline or other physical infrastructure shown
in the site plan and site elevation drawing forming part of the Legal
Description Schedule (the "Civil Infrastructure"); and


(b) a license to pass and repass over the Access Area, with or without
equipment, machinery and materials as reasonably required by the
Licensee, and to construct, maintain, repair, replace and use trails,
roads and bridges on the Access Area as reasonably required to obtain
access to the Lands; and


(c) a license to enter on and use the Utility Area, with or without
equipment, machinery and materials as reasonably required by the
Licensee, to construct, instal, operate, maintain, repair, replace and
use powerlines and all ancillary works on the Utility Area as reasonably
required to provide power to the Land (the licenses in subsections 1.1
(a), (b), and (c) are collectively "the License").


Article 2 – Duration


2.1
The duration of the License and the rights herein granted shall be for a
term of 20 years commencing on the
day of , 199 (the "Commencement Date") unless cancelled in accordance
with Article 6.


2.2
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this License, so long as:


(a) the Licensee is not in default of any of the material terms or
conditions of this License; and


(b) the Licensee has given the Owner, not more than · days prior to the
expiration of the term herein granted, notice in writing of the
Licensee's wish to re-apply for a new license to enter on and use the
Land and the Access Area and the Utility Area


the Owner may agree to offer a new license to the Licensee by notice to
the Licensee, in writing, on the terms and conditions determined by the
Owner and contained in the notice. The Licensee shall have a period of
60 days from the date of receipt of the notice from the Owner to accept
a new License to enter on and use the Land and the Access Area and the
Utility Area by executing the new License contained in the notice and
delivering it to the Owner.


Article 3 – License Fee


3.1
The Licensee shall pay to the Owner an annual License fee during the
term of this License, in advance, as follows:


(a) during the first five years of the term of this License (the
"Initial Fee Period"), the Licensee shall pay to the Owner:

(i) on the Commencement Date, the sum of · ; and

(ii) on each annual anniversary of the Commencement Date during the
Initial Fee Period, a sum equal to the greater of:


(1) the annual License fee for the immediately preceding year; or


(2) the amount which would be payable on that date under the
then-existing policies of the Province of British Columbia with respect
to the payment of rent for communication sites located on similar Crown
Land (the "Provincial Policies"); and


(b) during each subsequent five year period over the term of this
License (a "Subsequent Fee Period"), the Licensee shall pay to the Owner
on each annual anniversary of the Commencement Date a sum equal to the
greatest of:


(i) the annual License fee for the immediately preceding year,


(ii) the amount which would be payable on that date under the
then-existing Provincial Policies, or


(iii) the annual fair market rent for the Subsequent Fee Period, if that
annual fair market rent has been determined:


(1) by written agreement between the Owner and the Licensee prior to the
Subsequent Fee Period; or


(2) pursuant to the dispute resolution process set out in Article 10,
invoked by the Owner or the Licensee prior to the Subsequent Fee Period.


3.2
In this Article,
"annual fair market rent"
means the fee which a willing licensee at arm's length from the Owner
would pay to the Owner in respect of the Land excluding any allocation
of value to any fixtures or improvements located on the Land:

(a) belonging to the Licensee; or
(a) not available for use by the Licensee.

Article 4 – Covenants of the Licensee


4.1
The Licensee covenants with the Owner:


(a) to pay the License fee due at the address of the Owner set out above
or at such other place as the Owner may specify from time to time by the
giving of notice to the Licensee in accordance with Article 8;


(b) to pay and discharge when due all applicable taxes, levies, charges
and assessments now or hereafter assessed, levied or charged that relate
to the Land, the Access Area or the Utility Area or any of the
Licensee's improvements thereon (the "Realty Taxes") that the Licensee
is liable to pay;


(c) to observe, abide by and comply with all applicable laws, bylaws,
orders, directions, ordinances and regulations of any competent
government authority in any way affecting the Land, the Access Area or
the Utility Area and improvements situate thereon, or their use and
occupation;


(d) not to commit or suffer any wilful or voluntary waste, spoil or
destruction on the Land, the Access Area or the Utility Area or do or
suffer to be done thereon by its employees, contractors, agents,
invitees or anyone for whom the Licensee is responsible at law anything
that may be or become a nuisance to the Owner or to the occupiers of
adjoining land;


(e) to deliver to the Owner from time to time, upon demand, proof of
insurance provided for in subsection (k), receipts or other evidence of
payment of Realty Taxes, insurance premiums and other monetary
obligations of the Licensee required to be observed by the Licensee
pursuant to this License;


(f) to indemnify and save harmless the Owner against all losses,
damages, costs and liabilities, including fees of solicitors and other
professional advisors, arising out of:


(i) any breach, violation or non-performance of any covenant, condition
or agreement in this license by the Licensee, or


(ii) any personal injury, death or property damage arising out of the
Licensee's use and occupation of the Land, the Access Area or the
Utility Area


and the Owner may add the amount of such losses, damages, costs and
liabilities to the Fee and the amount so added shall be payable to the
Owner immediately;


(g) to keep the Land, the Access Area and the Utility Area in a safe,
clean and sanitary condition satisfactory to the Owner acting
reasonably, and to make safe, clean and sanitary any portion of the
Land, the Access Area and the Utility Area or any improvement thereon
that the Owner, acting reasonably, may direct by notice in writing to
the Licensee;


(h) to permit the Owner or its authorized representative to enter upon
the Land, the Access Area or the Utility Area at any time to examine its
condition;


(i) to use and occupy the Land, the Access Area and the Utility Area in
accordance with the provisions of this License including those set forth
in the schedule attached and entitled "Special Provisos";


(j) on the expiration or at the earlier cancellation of this License:


(i) to quit peaceably and deliver possession of the Land, the Access
Area and the Utility Area to the Owner,


(ii) to remove from the Land, the Access Area and the Utility Area all
above-ground buildings, machinery, plant equipment and apparatus and all
other improvements to or things on the Land, the Access Area or the
Utility Area erected or placed on the Land, the Access Area or the
Utility Area by the Licensee, and


(iii) to restore the surface of the Land, the Access Area and the
Utility Area to the satisfaction of the Owner acting reasonably,


and to the extent necessary, this covenant shall survive the expiration
or cancellation of this License;


(k) to effect and keep in force during the term insurance protecting the
Owner and the Licensee (without any rights of cross-claim or subrogation
against the Owner) against claims for personal injury, death, property
damage or third party or public liability claims arising from any
accident or occurrence on the Land, the Access Area or the Utility Area
to an amount not less than $1,000,000.00; except, however, that the
Owner may, in its sole discretion, waive the requirements of this
subsection on the delivery to the Owner of evidence that the Licensee is
self insured;


(l) notwithstanding subsection (k), the Owner may from time to time
notify the Licensee that the amount of insurance posted by the Licensee
pursuant to that subsection be changed and the Licensee shall, within 60
days of receiving such notice, cause the amount of insurance posted,
pursuant to subsection (k) to be changed to the amount specified by the
Owner, acting reasonably, in the notice and deliver to the Owner written
confirmation of the change, except that when the Licensee is
self-insuring this section shall not apply; and


(m) not to interfere with the activities, works or other improvements of
any other person who enters on or uses or occupies the Land, the Access
Area or the Utility Area under a subsequent right or interest granted by
the Owner, or who is otherwise authorized by the Owner to enter on or
use or occupy the Land, the Access Area or the Utility Area in
accordance with Section 9.3; and


(n) on request of the Owner, to provide to the Owner an inventory of
communication uses sufficient to allow the calculation of fees under the
Provincial Policies.


Article 5 – Assignment


5.1
The Licensee shall not assign this License or grant a sublicense of any
part of the Land, the Access Area or the Utility Area without the prior
written consent of the Owner, which consent shall not be unreasonably
withheld.


5.2
Notwithstanding section 5.1, the Licensee may, without the prior written
consent of the Owner, assign its interest in all or a part of the Land,
the Access Area or the Utility Area to an affiliate (as defined in the
Company Act,
RSBC 1996) of the Licensee provided that the Licensee gives written
notice of any such change at least 120 days prior to the next
anniversary date of the term of this License.


5.3
No assignment or sublicensing pursuant to sections 5.1 or 5.2, nor the
Owner's consent thereto, will relieve the Licensee from the observance
and performance of the Licensee's obligations contained in this License.


Article 6 – Cancellation


6.1
If the Licensee fails to observe or perform any term contained herein,
and such failure continues after the giving of the written notice by the
Owner to the Licensee of the nature of the failure for a period of:

(a) 30 days; or

(b) 150 days, if the failure because of its nature would reasonably
require more than 30 days to cure, and provided that the Licensee is
proceeding diligently and continuously to cure the failure throughout;


then the Owner may cancel this License and, notwithstanding subsection
4.1 (j), any fixtures to the Land, Access Area and the Utility Area
shall become, at the discretion of the Owner, the property of the Owner.


6.2
If this License is taken in execution or attachment by any person, or
the Licensee commits an act of bankruptcy, becomes insolvent, is
petitioned into bankruptcy or voluntarily enters into an arrangement
with his creditors, the Owner may, on 90 days written notice to the
Licensee, cancel this License and the rights herein granted.


6.3
If the Licensee ceases to use the Land, the Access Area or the Utility
Area for the purposes permitted herein and the Licensee does not
recommence its use of the Land, the Access Area or the Utility Area
within 180 days of receipt of written notice from the Owner, the Owner
may immediately cancel that portion of this License and the rights
herein granted that relates to the Land, the Access Area or the Utility
Area as the case may be.


6.4
If the Owner requires a portion of the Land, the Access Area or the
Utility Area for a public purpose, the Owner may, in accordance with
section 6.5 and on 180 days written notice to the Licensee, cancel this
License and the rights herein granted with respect to no more than 5% of
the whole of the Land, no more than 5% of the whole of the Access Area,
no more than 5% of the whole of the Utility Area, or no more than 5% of
the combined area, as the case may be.


6.5
Concurrently with the notice referred to in section 6.4, the Owner will
give the Licensee written notice that the Owner will, at its cost,
relocate the Licensee's structures and improvements that are materially
affected by the cancellation in Section 6.4 to a different location
on the Land, the Access Area or the Utility Area as the case may be, or
to a location on other land immediately adjacent to the Land, the Access
Area or the Utility Area (the "New Location"). The New Location must, in
the reasonable opinion of the Licensee, be of sufficient size to
accommodate the Licensee's structures and improvements and be equally
suitable for the purposes of the Licensee. The Owner will pay for any
reasonable costs of moving the Licensee and its structures and
improvements to the New Location. If the Licensee's structures and
improvements cannot be moved to the New Location, the Owner will pay to
the Licensee the reasonable costs of constructing new improvements on
the New Location. As full compensation for all other costs, expenses and
damages that the Licensee may incur in connection with the relocation,
including disruption and loss of business, the parties shall agree on a
lump sum payment and failing agreement, the matter shall be referred to
arbitration pursuant to Article 10. All other terms and conditions of
this License will apply to the New Location for the balance of the
original term.


6.6
The Licensee may deliver a written notice to the Owner cancelling this
License, in whole or with respect to the Access Area only or to the
Utility Area only, and thereafter the License and the rights herein
granted will, in whole or with respect to the Access Area only,
terminate 180 days after the date of receipt by the Owner of such
written notice.


6.7
Notwithstanding subsection 4.1 (j), any building, machinery, plant,
equipment, apparatus or other improvements to the Land, the Access Area
or the Utility Area (collectively, the "Improvements") that remains
unremoved from the Land, the Access Area or the Utility Area:


(a) upon the cancellation of this License pursuant to section 6.1,
section 6.4 or section 6.6; or


(b) thirty days after the expiration of this License or the cancellation
of this License pursuant to section 6.2 or section 6.3 (provided that if
further time is reasonably required because of the nature of the
Improvements or because of other constraints beyond the control of the
Licensee, including weather, and provided that the Licensee is
proceeding diligently and continuously to remove such Improvements, the
30 day time for removal will be extended to 150 days after the
expiration or cancellation of this License),


shall, at the discretion of the Owner, be forfeited to and become the
property of the Owner.


6.8
If the Owner elects to assume ownership of any above-ground Improvements
pursuant to section 6.7, the Owner may remove them from the Land, the
Access Area or the Utility Area and the Licensee shall, on demand,
compensate the Owner for all costs incurred by the Owner respecting
their removal.


6.9
The rights of the Owner under section 6.7 and section 6.8 shall be
deemed to survive the expiration or earlier cancellation of this
License.


Article 7 – Security


7.1
The security in the sum of $· and all rights, privileges, benefits and
interests accruing thereto delivered by the Licensee to the Owner
(herein called the "Security") to guarantee the performance of the
Licensee's obligations under this License shall be maintained in effect
until such time as the Owner certifies in writing that such obligations
have been fully performed. The Owner may, in its sole discretion, waive
the requirements of this section.


7.2
In the event the Licensee defaults in the performance of any of its
obligations hereunder, the Owner may, in its sole discretion, sell, call
in and convert the Security, or any part of it, and such Security shall
be deemed to have been absolutely forfeited to the Owner.


7.3
The rights of the Owner under this Article shall be deemed to continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding the expiration or earlier
cancellation of this License.


7.4
Notwithstanding any amount of Security stated to be required under
section 7.1, the Owner may, acting reasonably, from time to time by
notice to the Licensee, demand the amount to be changed to that
specified in a notice and the Licensee shall, within 60 days of such
notice, change the Security to that specified and provide the Owner with
evidence of the change, except that while Security is waived under
section 7.1, this section shall not apply.


Article 8 – Notice


8.1
Whenever service of a notice or a document is required under this
License, the notice or documents shall be in writing and shall be deemed
to have been served if delivered to, or if sent by prepaid registered
mail addressed to, the Owner or the Licensee, as the case may be, at the
addresses specified for each on the first page of this License, and
where service is by registered mail the notice or document shall be
conclusively deemed to have been served on the eighth day after its
deposit in a Canada Post office at any place in Canada. If there is a
disruption in mail service caused by labour dispute, civil unrest or
other events beyond the control of the parties, between mailing and
actual receipt of such notice, the party sending such notice will
re-send by courier, fax or other electronic means and such notice will
only be effective if actually received.


8.2
Either party may, by notice in writing to the other, specify another
address for service of notices under this License and after another
address has been specified under this section, notices shall be mailed
to that address in accordance with this Article.


Article 9 – Miscellaneous


9.1
No term, condition, covenant or other provision herein shall be
considered to have been waived by the Owner unless such waiver is
expressed in writing by the Owner. Any such waiver of any term,
condition, covenant or other provision herein shall not be construed as
or constitute a waiver of any further or other breach of the same or any
other term, condition, covenant, or other provision and the consent or
approval of the Owner to any act by the Licensee requiring the consent
or approval of the Owner shall not be considered to waive or render
unnecessary such consents or approvals to any subsequent similar act by
the Licensee.


9.2
No remedy conferred upon or reserved to the Owner is exclusive of any
other remedy herein or provided by law, but such remedy shall be
cumulative and shall be in addition to any other remedy herein or
hereafter existing at law, in equity, or by statute.


9.3
This License shall not entitle the Licensee to exclusive possession of
the Land, the Access Area or the Utility Area and the Owner may, for any
purpose, grant to others interests in the Land, the Access Area or the
Utility Area or rights to enter on or use or occupy the Land, the Access
Area or the Utility Area or may otherwise authorize other persons to
enter on or use or occupy the Land, the Access Area or the Utility Area
so long as the grant or authorization does not materially affect the
exercise of the Licensee's rights hereunder. The question of whether a
grant materially affects the exercise of the Licensee's rights hereunder
shall be determined by the Owner acting reasonably. If the Owner, by
written instrument, grants a license, right or interest to others to use
or occupy the Land, the Access Area or the Utility Area such grant will
contain a provision identical to subsection 4.1 (g) of this License
obligating the new grantee to keep the Land, the Access Area or the
Utility Area in a safe, clean and sanitary condition satisfactory to the
Owner.


9.4
The terms and provisions of this License shall extend to, be binding
upon and enure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their successors
and permitted assigns.


9.5
Time is of the essence in this agreement.


Article 10 – Dispute Resolution


10.1
In this Article,
"dispute"
means any dispute arising out of or in connection with this License or
in respect of any defined legal relationship associated with it or
derived from it.


10.2
The parties agree to attempt to resolve all disputes by negotiations
conducted in good faith and to provide timely disclosure of all relevant
facts, information and documents to further those negotiations.


10.3
If a dispute is not settled through direct negotiations either party may
request the British Columbia International Commercial Arbitration Centre
(BCICAC) to appoint a mediator to conduct a mediation under its
mediation rules of procedure.


10.4
If a dispute is not settled within 15 days of the appointment of the
mediator or any further period of time agreed to by the parties, the
dispute shall be referred to and finally resolved by arbitration before
a single arbitrator under the arbitration rules of procedure of the
BCICAC.


10.5
If the BCICAC is unavailable or unable to administer the mediation or
arbitration of a dispute under its rules of procedure, the parties will
select the rules of another institution.


Article 11 – Interpretation


11.1
In this License, unless the context otherwise requires, the singular
includes the plural and the masculine includes the feminine gender and a
corporation.


11.2
The captions and headings contained in this License are for convenience
only and are not to be construed as defining or in any way limiting the
scope or intent of the provisions herein.


11.3
If any section of this License or any part of a section is found to be
illegal or unenforceable, that part or section, as the case may be,
shall be considered separate and severable and the remaining parts and
sections of this License shall not be affected thereby and shall be
enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.


IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this License as of the day
and year first above written.





SIGNED by a duly authorized signatory of

)



)


in the presence of:
)



____________________

Name


)

)


____________________

Authorized Signatory




____________________

Address


)

)



____________________
)



)







SIGNED by a duly authorized signatory of

)



)


in the presence of:
)



____________________

Name


)

)


____________________

Authorized Signatory




____________________

Address


)

)



____________________
)



)




LEGAL DESCRIPTION SCHEDULE

1. Legal Description
2. Sketch Plan

SPECIAL PROVISOS SCHEDULE

Special Provisos:

(1) The Licensee shall comply with the provisions of his Radio Station
License issued by Communications Canada and any subsequent amendments to
that license.


(2) The Licensee shall inform the Owner of any amendments to his Radio
Station License.




Appendix C-2

Document 6



License of Occupation for Hydro Communication Site


THIS AGREEMENT made this __________ day of ____________________, 199

BETWEEN:

NISG̱A'A NATION
, of


____________________

(the "Owner")

AND:

of ____________________

(the "Licensee")


Whereas the Owner has agreed to grant to the Licensee a license to enter
on and use that parcel of land (the "Land") located generally in the
vicinity of ________________ and described in the schedule attached and
entitled "Legal Description";


Now therefore in consideration of the fee to be paid by, and the
covenants, of the Licensee, the parties agree as follows:


Article 1 – Grant of License


1.1
The Owner, on the terms set forth herein, hereby grants to the Licensee
a license to enter on and use the Land for the purpose of constructing
and maintaining for communication purposes any building, tower, road,
antennae, powerline or other physical infrastructure shown in the site
plan and site elevation drawing forming part of the Legal Description
Schedule (the "Civil Infrastructure").


Article 2 – Duration


2.1
The duration of the license and the rights herein granted shall be for a
term of 20 years commencing on the
day of , 199 (the
"Commencement Date") unless cancelled in accordance with Article 6.


2.2
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this license, so long as:


(a) the Licensee is not in default of any of the material terms or
conditions of this license; and


(b) the Licensee has given the Owner, not more than · days prior to the
expiration of the term herein granted, notice in writing of the
Licensee's wish to re-apply for a new license to enter on and use the
Land


the Owner may agree to offer a new license to the Licensee by notice to
the Licensee, in writing, on the terms and conditions determined by the
Owner and contained in the notice. The Licensee shall have a period of
60 days from the date of receipt of the notice from the Owner to accept
a new license to enter on and use the Land by executing the new license
contained in the notice and delivering it to the Owner.


Article 3 – License Fee


3.1
The Licensee shall pay to the Owner an annual license fee during the
term of this license, in advance, as follows:


(a) during the first five years of the term of this license (the
"Initial Fee Period"), the Licensee shall pay to the Owner:

(i) on the Commencement Date, the sum of · ; and

(ii) on each annual anniversary of the Commencement Date during the
Initial Fee Period, a sum equal to the greater of:


(1) the annual license fee for the immediately preceding year; or


(2) the amount which would be payable on that date under the
then-existing policies of the Province of British Columbia with respect
to the payment of rent for communication sites located on similar Crown
Land (the "Provincial Policies"); and


(b) during each subsequent five year period over the term of this
license (a "Subsequent Fee Period"), the Licensee shall pay to the Owner
on each annual anniversary of the Commencement Date a sum equal to the
greatest of:


(i) the annual license fee for the immediately preceding year;


(ii) the amount which would be payable on that date under the
then-existing Provincial Policies; or


(iii) the annual fair market rent for the Subsequent Fee Period, if that
annual fair market rent has been determined:


(1) by written agreement between the Owner and the Licensee prior to the
Subsequent Fee Period; or


(2) pursuant to the dispute resolution process set out in Article 10,
invoked by the Owner or the Licensee prior to the Subsequent Fee Period.


3.2
In this Article,
"annual fair market rent"
means the fee which a willing licensee at arm's length from the Owner
would pay to the Owner in respect of the Land excluding any allocation
of value to any fixtures or improvements located on the Land:

(a) belonging to the Licensee; or
(b) not available for use by the Licensee.

Article 4 – Covenants of the Licensee


4.1
The Licensee covenants with the Owner:


(a) to pay the license fee due at the address of the Owner set out above
or at such other place as the Owner may specify from time to time by the
giving of notice to the Licensee in accordance with Article 8;


(b) to pay and discharge when due all applicable taxes, levies, charges
and assessments now or hereafter assessed, levied or charged that relate
to the Land or any of the Licensee's improvements thereon (the "Realty
Taxes") that the Licensee is liable to pay;


(c) to observe, abide by and comply with all applicable laws, bylaws,
orders, directions, ordinances and regulations of any competent
government authority in any way affecting the Land and improvements
situate thereon, or their use and occupation;


(d) not to commit or suffer any wilful or voluntary waste, spoil or
destruction on the Land or do or suffer to be done thereon by its
employees, contractors, agents, invitees or anyone for whom the Licensee
is responsible at law anything that may be or become a nuisance to the
Owner or to the occupiers of adjoining land;


(e) to deliver to the Owner from time to time, upon demand, proof of
insurance provided for in subsection (k), receipts or other evidence of
payment of Realty Taxes, insurance premiums and other monetary
obligations of the Licensee required to be observed by the Licensee
pursuant to this license;


(f) to indemnify and save harmless the Owner against all losses,
damages, costs and liabilities, including fees of solicitors and other
professional advisors, arising out of:


(i) any breach, violation or non-performance of any covenant, condition
or agreement in this license by the Licensee, or


(ii) any personal injury, death or property damage arising out of the
Licensee's use and occupation of the Land


and the Owner may add the amount of such losses, damages, costs and
liabilities to the Fee and the amount so added shall be payable to the
Owner immediately, but not for an action against the Owner based on
nuisance or the rule
Rylands v. Fletcher
unless the Licensee was negligent;


(g) to keep the Land in a safe, clean and sanitary condition
satisfactory to the Owner acting reasonably, and to make safe, clean and
sanitary any portion of the Land or any improvement thereon that the
Owner, acting reasonably, may direct by notice in writing to the
Licensee;


(h) to permit the Owner or its authorized representative to enter upon
the Land at any time to examine its condition;


(i) to use and occupy the Land in accordance with the provisions of this
license including those set forth in the schedule attached and entitled
"Special Provisos";


(j) on the expiration or at the earlier cancellation of this license:


(i) to quit peaceably and deliver possession of the Land to the Owner,


(ii) to remove from the Land all above-ground buildings, machinery,
plant equipment and apparatus and all other improvements to or things on
the Land erected or placed on the Land by the Licensee, and


(iii) to restore the surface of the Land to the satisfaction of the
Owner acting reasonably,


and to the extent necessary, this covenant shall survive the expiration
or cancellation of this license;


(k) to effect and keep in force during the term insurance protecting the
Owner and the Licensee (without any rights of cross-claim or subrogation
against the Owner) against claims for personal injury, death, property
damage or third party or public liability claims arising from any
accident or occurrence on the Land to an amount not less than
$1,000,000.00; provided, except, that the Owner may, in its sole
discretion, waive the requirements of this subsection on the delivery to
the Owner of evidence that the Licensee is self insured;


(l) notwithstanding subsection (k), the Owner may from time to time
notify the Licensee that the amount of insurance posted by the Licensee
pursuant to that subsection be changed and the Licensee shall, within 60
days of receiving such notice, cause the amount of insurance posted,
pursuant to subsection (k) to be changed to the amount specified by the
Owner, acting reasonably, in the notice and deliver to the Owner written
confirmation of the change, except that when the Licensee is
self-insuring this section shall not apply; and


(m) not to interfere with the activities, works or other improvements of
any other person who enters on or uses or occupies the Land under a
subsequent right or interest granted by the Owner, or who is otherwise
authorized by the Owner to enter on or use or occupy the Land, in
accordance with Section 9.3;


(n) on request of the Owner, to provide the Owner an inventory of
communication uses sufficient to allow the calculation of fees under the
Provincial Policies.


Article 5 – Assignment


5.1
The Licensee shall not assign this license or grant a sublicense of any
part of the Land without the prior written consent of the Owner, which
consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.


5.2
Notwithstanding section 5.1, the Licensee may, without the prior written
consent of the Owner, assign its interest in all or a part of the Land
to an affiliate (as defined in the
Company Act,
RSBC 1996) of the Licensee provided that the Licensee gives written
notice of any such change at least 120 days prior to the next
anniversary date of the term of this license.


5.3
No assignment or sublicensing pursuant to sections 5.1 or 5.2, nor the
Owner's consent thereto, will relieve the Licensee from the observance
and performance of the Licensee's obligations contained in this license.


Article 6 – Cancellation


6.1
If the Licensee fails to observe or perform any term contained herein,
and such failure continues after the giving of the written notice by the
Owner to the Licensee of the nature of the failure for a period of:

(a) 30 days; or

(b) 150 days, if the failure because of its nature would reasonably
require more than 30 days to cure, and provided that the Licensee is
proceeding diligently and continuously to cure the failure throughout;


then the Owner may cancel this license and, notwithstanding subsection
4.1 (j), any fixtures to the Land shall become, at the discretion of the
Owner, the property of the Owner.


6.2
If this license is taken in execution or attachment by any person, or
the Licensee commits an act of bankruptcy, becomes insolvent, is
petitioned into bankruptcy or voluntarily enters into an arrangement
with his creditors, the Owner may, on 90 days written notice to the
Licensee, cancel this license and the rights herein granted.


6.3
If the Licensee ceases to use the Land for the purposes permitted herein
and the Licensee does not recommence its use of the Land within 180 days
of receipt of written notice from the Owner, the Owner may immediately
cancel this license and the rights herein granted.


6.4
If the Owner requires a portion of the Land for a public purpose, the
Owner may, in accordance with section 6.5 and on 180 days written notice
to the Licensee, cancel this license and the rights herein granted with
respect to no more than 5% of the whole of the Land.


6.5
Concurrently with the notice referred to in section 6.4, the Owner will
give the Licensee written notice that the Owner will, at its cost,
relocate the Licensee's structures and improvements that are materially
affected by the cancellation in Section 6.4 to a different location
on the Land or to a location on other land immediately adjacent to the
Land (the "New Location"). The New Location must, in the reasonable
opinion of the Licensee, be of sufficient size to accommodate the
Licensee's structures and improvements and be equally suitable for the
purposes of the Licensee. The Owner will pay for any reasonable costs of
moving the Licensee and its structures and improvements to the New
Location. If the Licensee's structures and improvements cannot be moved
to the New Location, the Owner will pay to the Licensee the reasonable
costs of constructing new improvements on the New Location. As full
compensation for all other costs, expenses and damages that the Licensee
may incur in connection with the relocation, including disruption and
loss of business, the parties shall agree on a lump sum payment, and
failing agreement, the matter shall be referred to arbitration pursuant
to Article 10. All other terms and conditions of this license will apply
to the New Location for the balance of the original term.


6.6
The Licensee may deliver a written notice to the Owner cancelling this
license and thereafter the license and the rights herein granted will
terminate 180 days after the date of receipt by the Owner of such
written notice.


6.7
Notwithstanding subsection 4.1 (j), any building, machinery, plant,
equipment and apparatus, or other improvements to the Land
(collectively, the "Improvements") that remain unremoved from the Land:


(a) upon the cancellation of this license pursuant to section 6.1,
section 6.4 or section 6.6; or


(b) thirty days after the expiration of this license or the cancellation
of this license pursuant to section 6.2 or section 6.3 (provided that if
further time is reasonably required because of the nature of the
Improvements or because of other constraints beyond the control of the
Licensee, including weather, and provided that the Licensee is
proceeding diligently and continuously to remove such Improvements, the
30 day time for removal will be extended to 150 days after the
expiration or cancellation of this license),


shall, at the discretion of the Owner, be forfeited to and become the
property of the Owner.


6.8
If the Owner elects to assume ownership of any above-ground Improvements
pursuant to section 6.7, the Owner may remove them from the Land and the
Licensee shall, on demand, compensate the Owner for all costs incurred
by the Owner respecting their removal.


6.9
The rights of the Owner under section 6.7 and section 6.8 shall be
deemed to survive the expiration or earlier cancellation of this
license.


Article 7 – Security


7.1
The security in the sum of $· and all rights, privileges, benefits and
interests accruing thereto delivered by the Licensee to the Owner
(herein called the "Security") to guarantee the performance of the
Licensee's obligations under this license shall be maintained in effect
until such time as the Owner certifies in writing that such obligations
have been fully performed. The Owner may, in its sole discretion, waive
the requirements of this section.


7.2
If the Licensee defaults in the performance of any of its obligations
hereunder, the Owner may, in its sole discretion, sell, call in and
convert the Security, or any part of it, and such Security shall be
deemed to have been absolutely forfeited to the Owner.


7.3
The rights of the Owner under this Article shall be deemed to continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding the expiration or earlier
cancellation of this license.


7.4
Notwithstanding any amount of Security stated to be required under
section 7.1, the Owner may, acting reasonably, from time to time by
notice to the Licensee, demand the amount to be changed to that
specified in a notice and the Licensee shall, within 60 days of such
notice, change the Security to that specified and provide the Owner with
evidence of the change, except that while Security is waived under
section 7.1, this section shall not apply.


Article 8 – Notice


8.1
Whenever service of a notice or a document is required under this
license, the notice or documents shall be in writing and shall be deemed
to have been served if delivered to, or if sent by prepaid registered
mail addressed to, the Owner or the Licensee, as the case may be, at the
addresses specified for each on the first page of this license, and
where service is by registered mail the notice or document shall be
conclusively deemed to have been served on the eighth day after its
deposit in a Canada Post office at any place in Canada. If there is a
disruption in mail service caused by labour dispute, civil unrest or
other events beyond the control of the parties, between mailing and
actual receipt of such notice, the party sending such notice will
re-send by courier, fax or other electronic means and such notice will
only be effective if actually received.


8.2
Either party may, by notice in writing to the other, specify another
address for service of notices under this license and after another
address has been specified under this section, notices shall be mailed
to that address in accordance with this Article.


Article 9 – Miscellaneous


9.1
No term, condition, covenant or other provision herein shall be
considered to have been waived by the Owner unless such waiver is
expressed in writing by the Owner. Any such waiver of any term,
condition, covenant or other provision herein shall not be construed as
or constitute a waiver of any further or other breach of the same or any
other term, condition, covenant, or other provision and the consent or
approval of the Owner to any act by the Licensee requiring the consent
or approval of the Owner shall not be considered to waive or render
unnecessary such consents or approvals to any subsequent similar act by
the Licensee.


9.2
No remedy conferred upon or reserved to the Owner is exclusive of any
other remedy herein or provided by law, but such remedy shall be
cumulative and shall be in addition to any other remedy herein or
hereafter existing at law, in equity, or by statute.


9.3
This license shall not entitle the Licensee to exclusive possession of
the Land and the Owner may, for any purpose, grant to others interests
in the Land or rights to enter on or use or occupy the Land, or may
otherwise authorize other persons to enter on or use or occupy the Land,
so long as the grant or authorization does not materially affect the
exercise of the Licensee's rights hereunder. The question of whether a
grant materially affects the exercise of the Licensee's rights hereunder
shall be determined by the Owner acting reasonably. If the Owner, by
written instrument, grants a license, right or interest to others to use
or occupy the Land, such grant will contain a provision identical to
subsection 4.1 (g) of this license obligating the new grantee to keep
the Land in a safe, clean and sanitary condition satisfactory to the
Owner.


9. 4
The terms and provisions of this license shall extend to, be binding
upon and enure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their successors
and permitted assigns.


9.5
Time is of the essence in this agreement.


Article 10 – Dispute Resolution


10.1
In this Article,
"dispute"
means any dispute arising out of or in connection with this license or
in respect of any defined legal relationship associated with it or
derived from it.


10.2
The parties agree to attempt to resolve all disputes by negotiations
conducted in good faith and to provide timely disclosure of all relevant
facts, information and documents to further those negotiations.


10.3
If a dispute is not settled through direct negotiations either party may
request the British Columbia International Commercial Arbitration Centre
(BCICAC) to appoint a mediator to conduct a mediation under its
mediation rules of procedure.


10.4
If a dispute is not settled within 15 days of the appointment of the
mediator or any further period of time agreed to by the parties, the
dispute shall be referred to and finally resolved by arbitration before
a single arbitrator under the arbitration rules of procedure of the
BCICAC.


10.5
If the BCICAC is unavailable or unable to administer the mediation or
arbitration of a dispute under its rules of procedure, the parties will
select the rules of another institution.


Article 11 – Interpretation


11.1
In this license, unless the context otherwise requires, the singular
includes the plural and the masculine includes the feminine gender and a
corporation.


11.2
The captions and headings contained in this license are for convenience
only and are not to be construed as defining or in any way limiting the
scope or intent of the provisions herein.


11.3
If any section of this license or any part of a section is found to be
illegal or unenforceable, that part or section, as the case may be,
shall be considered separate and severable and the remaining parts and
sections of this license shall not be affected thereby and shall be
enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.


IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this license as of the day
and year first above written.





SIGNED by a duly authorized signatory of

)



)


in the presence of:
)



____________________

Name


)

)


____________________

Authorized Signatory




____________________

Address


)

)



____________________
)



)







SIGNED by a duly authorized signatory of

)



)


in the presence of:
)



____________________

Name


)

)


____________________

Authorized Signatory




____________________

Address


)

)



____________________
)



)




LEGAL DESCRIPTION SCHEDULE

1. Legal Description
2. Sketch Plan

SPECIAL PROVISOS SCHEDULE

Special Provisos:

(1) The Licensee shall comply with the provisions of his Radio Station
License issued by Communications Canada and any subsequent amendments to
that license.


(2) The Licensee shall inform the Owner of any amendments to his Radio
Station License.




Appendix C-2

Document 7



License of Occupation for Forestry Experimental Plots


THIS AGREEMENT made this __________ day of ____________________, 199

BETWEEN:

NISG̱A'A NATION
, of


____________________

(the "Owner")

AND:


HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN IN RIGHT OF THE PROVINCE OF BRITISH COLUMBIA

, as represented by the Minister of Forests of


of ____________________

(the "Licensee")


Whereas the Owner has agreed to grant to the Licensee a license to enter
on and use that parcel of land (the "Land") located generally in the
vicinity of ________________ and described in the Schedule attached, and
entitled "Legal Description";


Now therefore in consideration of the fee to be paid by, and the
covenants of, the Licensee, the parties agree as follows:


Article 1 – Grant of License


1.1
The Owner, on the terms set forth herein, hereby grants to the Licensee
a license to enter on and use the Land for the purpose of conducting
forestry related studies, tests and experiments.


Article 2 – Duration


2.1
The duration of the license and the rights herein granted shall be for a
term of 20 years commencing on the
day of , 199 (the
"Commencement Date") unless cancelled in accordance with Article 6.


2.2
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this license, so long as:


(a) the Licensee is not in default of any of the material terms or
conditions of this license; and


(b) the Licensee has given the Owner, not more than · days prior to the
expiration of the term herein granted, notice in writing of the
Licensee's wish to re-apply for a new license to enter on and use the
Land


the Owner may agree to offer a new license to the Licensee by notice to
the Licensee, in writing, on the terms and conditions determined by the
Owner and contained in the notice. The Licensee shall have a period of
60 days from the date of receipt of the notice from the Owner to accept
a new license to enter on and use the Land by executing the new license
contained in the notice and delivering it to the Owner.


Article 3 – License Fee


3.1
The Licensee shall pay to the Owner a license fee of $1.00 for the
entire term.


Article 4 – Covenants of the Licensee


4.1
The Licensee covenants with the Owner:


(a) to pay and discharge when due all applicable taxes, levies, charges
and assessments now or hereafter assessed, levied or charged that relate
to the Land or any of the Licensee's improvements thereon (the "Realty
Taxes") that the Licensee is liable to pay;


(b) to observe, abide by and comply with all applicable laws, bylaws,
orders, directions, ordinances and regulations of any competent
government authority in any way affecting the Land and improvements
situate thereon, or their use and occupation;


(c) not to commit or suffer any wilful or voluntary waste, spoil or
destruction on the Land or do or suffer to be done thereon by its
employees, contractors, agents, invitees or anyone for whom the Licensee
is responsible at law anything that may be or become a nuisance to the
Owner or to the occupiers of adjoining land;


(d) to deliver to the Owner from time to time, upon demand, proof of
insurance provided for in subsection (j), receipts or other evidence of
payment of Realty Taxes, insurance premiums and other monetary
obligations of the Licensee required to be observed by the Licensee
pursuant to this license;


(e) to indemnify and save harmless the Owner against all losses,
damages, costs and liabilities, including fees of solicitors and other
professional advisors arising out of:


(i) any breach, violation or non-performance of any covenant, condition
or agreement in this license by the Licensee, or


(ii) any personal injury, death or property damage arising out of the
Licensee's use and occupation of the Land


and the amount of such losses, damages, costs and liabilities shall be
payable to the Owner immediately;


(f) to keep the Land in a safe, clean and sanitary condition
satisfactory to the Owner acting reasonably, and to make safe, clean and
sanitary any portion of the Land or any improvement thereon that the
Owner, acting reasonably, may direct by notice in writing to the
Licensee;


(g) to permit the Owner or its authorized representative to enter upon
the Land at any time to examine its condition;


(h) to use and occupy the Land in accordance with the provisions of this
license including those set forth in the schedule attached and entitled
"Special Provisos";


(i) on the expiration or at the earlier cancellation of this license:


(i) to quit peaceably and deliver possession of the Land to the Owner,


(ii) to remove from the Land all above-ground buildings, machinery,
plant, equipment and apparatus and all other improvements to or things
on the Land erected or placed on the Land by the Licensee, and


(iii) to restore the surface of the Land to the satisfaction of the
Owner acting reasonably


and to the extent necessary, this covenant shall survive the expiration
or cancellation of this license;


(j) to effect, and keep in force during the term, insurance protecting
the Owner and the Licensee (without any rights of cross-claim or
subrogation against the Owner) against claims for personal injury,
death, property damage or third party or public liability claims arising
from any accident or occurrence on the Land to an amount not less than
$1,000,000.00; except that so long as the Licensee is Her Majesty the
Queen in Right of the Province of British Columbia or a British Columbia
crown corporation, the Owner will waive the requirements of this
subsection on the delivery to the Owner of confirmation that the
Licensee is self insured;


(k) notwithstanding subsection (j), the Owner may from time to time
notify the Licensee that the amount of insurance posted by the Licensee
pursuant to that subsection be changed and the Licensee shall, within 60
days of receiving such notice, cause the amount of insurance posted,
pursuant to subsection (j), to be changed to the amount specified by the
Owner, acting reasonably, in the notice and deliver to the Owner written
confirmation of the change, except that when the Licensee is
self-insuring this section shall not apply; and


(l) not to interfere with the activities, works or other improvements of
any other person who enters on or uses or occupies the Land under a
subsequent right or interest granted by the Owner, or who is otherwise
authorized by the Owner to enter on or use or occupy the Land, in
accordance with Section 9.3.


Article 5 – Assignment


5.1
The Licensee shall not assign this license or grant a sublicense of any
part of the Land without the prior written consent of the Owner, which
consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.


5.2
Notwithstanding section 5.1, the Licensee may, without the prior written
consent of the Owner, assign its interest in all or a part of the Land
to a British Columbia crown corporation provided that the Licensee gives
written notice of any such change at least 120 days prior to the next
anniversary date of the term of this license.


5.3
No assignment or sublicensing pursuant to sections 5.1 or 5.2, nor the
Owner's consent thereto, will relieve the Licensee from the observance
and performance of the Licensee's obligations contained in this license.


Article 6 – Cancellation


6.1
If the Licensee fails to observe or perform any term contained herein,
and such failure continues after the giving of the written notice by the
Owner to the Licensee of the nature of the failure for a period of:

(a) 30 days; or

(b) 150 days, if the failure because of its nature would reasonably
require more than 30 days to cure, and provided that the Licensee is
proceeding diligently and continuously to cure the failure throughout;


then the Owner may cancel this license and, notwithstanding subsection
(i) of section 4.1, any fixtures to the Land shall become, at the
discretion of the Owner, the property of the owner.


6.2
If this license is taken in execution or attachment by any person, or
the Licensee commits an act of bankruptcy, becomes insolvent, is
petitioned into bankruptcy or voluntarily enters into an arrangement
with his creditors, the Owner may, on 90 days written notice to the
Licensee, cancel this license and the rights herein granted.


6.3
If the Licensee ceases to use the Land for the purposes permitted herein
and the Licensee does not recommence its use of the Land within 180 days
of receipt of written notice from the Owner, the Owner may immediately
cancel this license and the rights herein granted.


6.4
The Licensee may deliver a written notice to the Owner cancelling this
license and thereafter the license and the rights herein granted will
terminate 180 days after the date of receipt by the Owner of such
written notice.


6.5
Notwithstanding subsection 4.1 (i), any building, machinery, plant,
equipment and apparatus, or other improvements to the Land
(collectively, the "Improvements") that remain unremoved from the Land:


(a) upon the cancellation of this license pursuant to section 6.1, or
section 6.4; or


(b) thirty days after the expiration or cancellation of this license
pursuant to section 6.2 or section 6.3 (provided that if further time is
reasonably required because of the nature of the Improvements or because
of other constraints beyond the control of the Licensee, including
weather, and provided that the Licensee is proceeding diligently and
continuously to remove such Improvements, the 30 day time for removal
will be extended to 150 days after the expiration or cancellation of
this license)


shall, at the discretion of the Owner, be forfeited to and become the
property of the Owner.


6.6
If the Owner elects to assume ownership of any above-ground Improvements
pursuant to section 6.5, the Owner may remove them from the Land and the
Licensee shall, on demand, compensate the Owner for all costs incurred
by the Owner respecting their removal.


6.7
The rights of the Owner under section 6.5 and section 6.6 shall be
deemed to survive the expiration or earlier cancellation of this
license.


Article 7 – Security


7.1
The security in the sum of $1.00 and all rights, privileges, benefits
and interests accruing thereto delivered by the Licensee to the Owner
(herein called the "Security") to guarantee the performance of the
Licensee's obligations under this license shall be maintained in effect
until such time as the Owner certifies in writing that such obligations
have been fully performed. So long as the Licensee is Her Majesty the
Queen in Right of the Province of British Columbia or a British Columbia
crown corporation, the Owner will waive the requirements of this
section.


7.2
If the Licensee defaults in the performance of any of its obligations
hereunder, the Owner may, in its sole discretion, sell, call in and
convert the Security, or any part of it, and such Security shall be
deemed to have been absolutely forfeited to the Owner.


7.3
The rights of the Owner under this Article shall be deemed to continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding the expiration or earlier
cancellation of this license.


7.4
Notwithstanding any amount of Security stated to be required under
section 7.1 the Owner may, acting reasonably, from time to time by
notice to the Licensee, demand the amount to be changed to that
specified in a notice and the Licensee shall, within 60 days of such
notice, change the Security to that specified and provide the Owner with
evidence of the change, except that while Security is waived under
section 7.1, this section shall not apply.


Article 8 – Notice


8.1
Whenever service of a notice or a document is required under this
license, the notice or documents shall be in writing and shall be deemed
to have been served if delivered to, or if sent by prepaid registered
mail addressed to, the Owner or the Licensee, as the case may be, at the
addresses specified for each on the first page of this license, and
where service is by registered mail the notice or document shall be
conclusively deemed to have been served on the eighth day after its
deposit in a Canada Post office at any place in Canada. If there is a
disruption in mail service caused by labour dispute, civil unrest or
other events beyond the control of the parties, between mailing and
actual receipt of such notice, the party sending such notice will
re-send by courier, fax or other electronic means and such notice will
only be effective if actually received.


8.2
Either party may, by notice in writing to the other, specify another
address for service of notices under this license and after another
address has been specified under this section, notices shall be mailed
to that address in accordance with this Article.


Article 9 – Miscellaneous


9.1
No term, condition, covenant or other provision herein shall be
considered to have been waived by the Owner unless such waiver is
expressed in writing by the Owner. Any such waiver of any term,
condition, covenant or other provision herein shall not be construed as
or constitute a waiver of any further or other breach of the same or any
other term, condition, covenant, or other provision and the consent or
approval of the Owner to any act by the Licensee requiring the consent
or approval of the Owner shall not be considered to waive or render
unnecessary such consents or approvals to any subsequent similar act by
the Licensee.


9.2
No remedy conferred upon or reserved to the Owner is exclusive of any
other remedy herein or provided by law, but such remedy shall be
cumulative and shall be in addition to any other remedy herein or
hereafter existing at law, in equity, or by statute.


9.3
This license shall not entitle the Licensee to exclusive possession of
the Land and the Owner may, for any purpose, grant to others interests
in the Land or rights to enter on or use or occupy the Land, or may
otherwise authorize other persons to enter on or use or occupy the Land,
so long as the grant or authorization does not materially affect the
exercise of the Licensee's rights hereunder. The question of whether a
grant materially affects the exercise of the Licensee's rights hereunder
shall be determined by the Owner acting reasonably. If the Owner, by
written instrument, grants a license, right or interest to others to use
or occupy the Land, such grant will contain a provision identical to
subsection 4.1 (f) of this license obligating the new grantee to keep
the Land in a safe, clean and sanitary condition satisfactory to the
Owner.


9.4
The terms and provisions of this license shall extend to, be binding
upon and enure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their successors
and permitted assigns.


9.5
Time is of the essence in this agreement.


Article 10 – Dispute Resolution


10.1
In this Article,
"dispute"
means any dispute arising out of or in connection with this license or
in respect of any defined legal relationship associated with it or
derived from it.


10.2
The parties agree to attempt to resolve all disputes by negotiations
conducted in good faith and to provide timely disclosure of all relevant
facts, information and documents to further those negotiations.


10.3
If a dispute is not settled through direct negotiations either party may
request the British Columbia International Commercial Arbitration Centre
(BCICAC) to appoint a mediator to conduct a mediation under its
mediation rules of procedure.


10.4
If a dispute is not settled within 15 days of the appointment of the
mediator or any further period of time agreed to by the parties, the
dispute shall be referred to and finally resolved by arbitration before
a single arbitrator under the arbitration rules of procedure of the
BCICAC.


10.5
If the BCICAC is unavailable or unable to administer the mediation or
arbitration of a dispute under its rules of procedure, the parties will
select the rules of another institution.


Article 11 – Interpretation


11.1
In this license, unless the context otherwise requires, the singular
includes the plural and the masculine includes the feminine gender and a
corporation.


11.2
The captions and headings contained in this license are for convenience
only and are not to be construed as defining or in any way limiting the
scope or intent of the provisions herein.


11.3
If any section of this license or any part of a section is found to be
illegal or unenforceable, that part or section, as the case may be,
shall be considered separate and severable and the remaining parts and
sections of this license shall not be affected thereby and shall be
enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.


IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this license as of the day
and year first above written.





SIGNED by a duly authorized signatory of

)



)


in the presence of:
)



____________________

Name


)

)


____________________

Authorized Signatory




____________________

Address


)

)



____________________
)



)







SIGNED by a duly authorized signatory of

)



)


in the presence of:
)



____________________

Name


)

)


____________________

Authorized Signatory




____________________

Address


)

)



____________________
)



)




LEGAL DESCRIPTION SCHEDULE

1. Legal Description
2. Sketch Plan

SPECIAL PROVISOS SCHEDULE




Appendix C-2

Document 8



License of Occupation for a Hydrometric Station


THIS AGREEMENT made this __________ day of ____________________, 199

BETWEEN:

NISG̱A'A NATION
, of


____________________

(the "Owner")

AND:

HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN IN RIGHT OF CANADA
,

as represented by the Minister of the Environment


of____________________

(the "Licensee")


Whereas the Owner has agreed to grant to the Licensee a license over
that parcel of land (the "Land") located generally in the vicinity of
________________ and described in the schedule attached and entitled
"Legal Description";


Now therefore in consideration of the fee to be paid by and the
covenants of the Licensee, the parties agree as follows:


Article 1 – Grant of License


1.1
The Owner, on the terms set forth herein, hereby grants to the Licensee
a license to enter on and use the Land for the purpose of constructing,
installing, erecting, maintaining, repairing and replacing any physical
infrastructure shown in the Sketch Plan forming part of the Legal
Description Schedule (the "Works") and to use the Works for operating a
hydrometric station and cable-crossing.


Article 2 – Duration


2.1
The duration of the license and the rights herein granted shall be for a
term of 20 years commencing on the
day of , 199 (the "Commencement
Date") unless cancelled in accordance with the terms hereof.


2.2
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this license, so long as:


(a) the Licensee is not in default of any of the material terms of
conditions of this license, and


(b) the Licensee has given the Owner, not more than · days prior to the
expiration of the term herein granted, notice in writing of the
Licensee's wish to re-apply for a new license of the Land,


the Owner may agree to offer a new license to the Licensee by notice to
the Licensee, in writing, on the terms and conditions determined by the
Owner and contained in the notice. The Licensee shall have a period of
sixty (60) days from the date of receipt of the notice from the Owner to
accept a new licence of the Land by executing the new license contained
in the notice and delivering it to the Owner.


Article 3 – License Fee


3.1
The Licensee shall pay to the Owner a license fee during the term of
this license, in advance, as follows:


(a) during each year of the first five years of the term of this license
(the "Initial Fee Period"), the Licensee shall pay to the Owner:


(i) on the Commencement Date, the sum of $200.00; and


(ii) on each annual anniversary of the Commencement Date during the
Initial Fee Period, a sum equal to the greater of:


(1) the annual license fee for the immediately preceding year; or

(2) the annual fair market rent; and

(b) during each year of each subsequent five year period over the term
of this license (the "Subsequent Fee Period"), the Licensee shall pay to
the Owner on each annual anniversary of the Commencement Date a sum
equal to the greater of:


(i) the annual license fee for the immediately preceding year; or


(ii) the annual fair market rent for the Subsequent Fee Period, if the
annual fair market rent has been determined:


(1) by written agreement between the Owner and the Licensee prior to the
Subsequent Fee Period; or


(2) pursuant to the dispute resolution process set out in Article 10,
invoked by the Owner or the Licensee prior to the Subsequent Fee Period.


3.2
In this Article,
"annual fair market rent"
means the fee which a willing licensee at arm's length from the Owner
would pay to the Owner in respect of the Land excluding any allocation
of value to any fixtures or improvements located on the Land:

(a) belonging to the Licensee; or
(b) not available for use by the Licensee.

Article 4 – Covenants of the Licensee


4.1
The Licensee covenants with the Owner:


(a) to pay the license fee due at the address of the Owner set out above
or at such other place as the Owner may specify from time to time by the
giving of notice to the Licensee in accordance with Article 8;


(b) to pay and discharge when due all applicable taxes, levies, charges
and assessments now or hereafter assessed, levied or charged which
relate to the Land or any of the Licensee's (or any sublicensee's of the
Licensee) improvements thereon (the "Realty Taxes") that the Licensee is
liable to pay;


(c) to observe, abide by and comply with all applicable laws, bylaws,
orders, directions, ordinances and regulations of any competent
government authority in any way affecting the Land and improvements
situate thereon, or their use and occupation;


(d) not to commit or suffer any wilful or voluntary waste, spoil or
destruction on the Land or do or suffer to be done thereon by its
employees, contractors, agents, invitees or anyone for whom the Licensee
is responsible at law anything that may be or become a nuisance to the
Owner or to the occupiers of adjoining land;


(e) to deliver to the Owner from time to time, upon demand, proof of
insurance provided for in subsection (k), receipts or other evidence of
payment of Realty Taxes, insurance premiums and other monetary
obligations of the Licensee required to be observed by the Licensee
pursuant to this license;


(f) subject to the
Crown Liability and Proceedings Act
(Canada) and the
Financial Administration Act
(Canada), to indemnify and save harmless the Owner against all losses,
damages, costs and liabilities, arising out of:


(i) any breach, violation or non-performance of any covenant, condition
or agreement in this license by the Licensee; and


(ii) any personal injury, death or property damage arising out of the
Licensee's use and occupation of the Land,


and the Owner may add the amount of such losses, damages, costs and
liabilities to the Fee and the amount so added shall be payable to the
Owner immediately.


(g) to keep the Land in a safe, clean and sanitary condition
satisfactory to the Owner acting reasonably, and to make safe, clean and
sanitary any portion of the Land or any improvement thereon that the
Owner, acting reasonably, may direct by notice in writing to the
Licensee;


(h) to permit the Owner or its authorized representative to enter upon
the Land at any time to examine its condition;


(i) to use and occupy the Land in accordance with the provisions of this
license including those set forth in the schedule attached and entitled
"Special Provisos";


(j) on the expiration or at the earlier cancellation of this license:


(i) to quit peaceably and deliver possession of the Land to the Owner,


(ii) to remove from the Land all buildings, machinery, plant, equipment
and apparatus and all other improvements to or things on the Land
erected or placed on the Land by the Licensee; and


(iii) to restore the surface of the Land to the satisfaction of the
Owner acting reasonably,


and to the extent necessary, this covenant shall survive the expiration
or cancellation of this license;


(k) to effect and keep in force during the term insurance protecting the
Owner and the Licensee (without any rights of cross-claim or subrogation
against the Owner) against claims for personal injury, death, property
damage or third party or public liability claims arising from any
accident or occurrence on the Land to an amount not less than
$1,000,000.00; provided, however, that so long as the Licensee is Her
Majesty the Queen in right of Canada or a Canada Crown corporation the
Owner will waive the requirements of this subsection on the delivery to
the Owner of evidence that the Licensee is self insured;


(l) notwithstanding subsection (k), the Owner may from time to time
notify the Licensee that the amount of insurance posted by the Licensee
pursuant to that subsection be changed and the Licensee shall, within 60
days of receiving such notice, cause the amount of insurance posted,
pursuant to subsection (k) to be changed to the amount specified by the
Owner, acting reasonably, in the notice and deliver to the Owner written
confirmation of the change, except that when the Licensee is
self-insuring this section shall not apply; and


(m) not to interfere with the activities of any other person to enter on
and use the Land under a subsequent right or interest granted by the
Owner in accordance with section 9.3.


Article 5 – Assignment


5.1
The Licensee shall not assign this license or grant a sublicense of any
part of the Land without the prior written consent of the Owner, which
consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.


5.2
Notwithstanding section 5.1, the Licensee may, without the prior written
consent of the Owner assign its interest in all or part of the Land to a
Canada crown corporation provided that the Licensee gives written notice
of any such change, at least 120 days prior to the next anniversary date
of the term of this license.


5.3
No assignment or sublicensing pursuant to sections 5.1 or 5.2, nor the
Owner's consent thereto, will relieve the Licensee from the observance
and performance of the Licensee's obligations contained in this licence.


Article 6 – Cancellation


6.1
In the event that the Licensee fails to observe or perform any term
contained herein, and such failure continues after the giving of the
written notice by the Owner to the Licensee of the nature of the failure
for a period of:

(a) 30 days; or:

(b) 150 days, if the failure because of its nature would reasonably
require more than 30 days to cure, and provided that the Licensee is
proceeding diligently and continuously to cure the failure throughout


then, and in any such case, the Owner may cancel this license and,
notwithstanding subsection (j) of section 4.1, any fixtures to the Land
shall become, at the discretion of the Owner, the property of the Owner.


6.2
In the event that this license is taken in execution or attachment by
any person, or the Licensee commits an act of bankruptcy, becomes
insolvent or is petitioned into bankruptcy or voluntarily enters into an
arrangement with his creditors, the Owner may, on 90 days written notice
to the Licensee, cancel this license and the rights herein granted.


6.3
In the event that the Licensee ceases to use the Land for the purposes
permitted herein and the Licensee does not recommence its use of the
Land within 180 days of receipt of written notice from the Owner, the
Owner may immediately cancel this license and the rights herein granted.


6.4
In the event that the Owner requires a portion of the Land for a public
purpose, the Owner may, in accordance with section 6.5 and on 180 days
written notice to the Licensee, cancel this license and the rights
herein granted with respect to no more than 5% of the whole of the Land.


6.5
Concurrently with the notice referred to in section 6.4, the Owner will
give the licensee written notice that the Owner will, at its cost,
relocate the Licensee's structures and improvements which are materially
affected by the cancellation in Section 6.4 to a different location on
the Land or to a location on other land immediately adjacent to the Land
(the "New Location"). The New Location must, in the reasonable opinion
of the Licensee, be of sufficient size to accommodate the Licensee's
structures and improvements and be equally suitable for the purposes of
the Licensee. The Owner will pay for any reasonable costs of moving the
Licensee and its structures and improvements to the New Location. If the
Licensee's structures and improvements cannot be moved to the New
Location, the Owner will pay to the Licensee the reasonable costs of
constructing new improvements on the New Location. As full compensation
for all other costs, expenses and damages which the Licensee may incur
in connection with the relocation, including disruption and loss of
business, the parties shall agree on a lump sum payment and failing
agreement, the matter shall be referred to arbitration pursuant to
Article 10. All other terms and conditions of this license will apply to
the New Location for the balance of the original term.


6.6
The Licensee may deliver a written notice to the Owner cancelling this
license and thereafter the license and the rights herein granted will
terminate 180 days after the date of receipt by the Owner of such
written notice.


6.7
Notwithstanding subsection (j) of section 4.1, any buildings, machinery,
plant, equipment and apparatus and all other improvements to the Land
(collectively, the "Improvements") that remain unremoved from the Land:


(a) upon cancellation of this license pursuant to section 6.1, section
6.4 or section 6.6; or


(b) thirty days after the expiration or cancellation of this license
pursuant to section 6.2 or section 6.3 (provided that if further time is
reasonably required because of the nature of the Improvements or because
of other constraints beyond the control of the Licensee, including
weather, and provided that the Licensee is proceeding diligently and
continuously to remove such Improvements, the 30 day time for removal
will be extended to 150 days after the expiration or cancellation of
this license)


shall, at the discretion of the Owner, be forfeited to and become the
property of the Owner.


6.8
If the Owner elects to assume ownership of any Improvements pursuant to
section 6.7, the Owner may remove them from the Land and the
Licensee shall, on demand, compensate the Owner for all costs incurred
by the Owner respecting their removal.


6.9
The rights of the Owner under section 6.7 and section 6.8 shall be
deemed to survive the expiration or earlier cancellation of this
license.


Article 7 – Security


7.1
The security in the sum of $· and all rights, privileges, benefits and
interests accruing thereto delivered by the Licensee to the Owner
(herein called the "Security") to guarantee the performance of the
Licensee's obligations under this license shall be maintained in effect
until such time as the Owner certifies in writing that such obligations
have been fully performed. So long as the Licensee is Her Majesty the
Queen in right of Canada or a Canada crown corporation, the Owner will
waive the requirements of this subsection.


7.2
In the event the Licensee defaults in the performance of any of its
obligations hereunder, the Owner may, in its sole discretion, sell, call
in and convert the Security, or any part of it, and such Security shall
be deemed to have been absolutely forfeited to the Owner.


7.3
The rights of the Owner under this Article shall be deemed to continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding the expiration or earlier
cancellation of this license.


7.4
Notwithstanding any amount of Security stated to be required under
section 7.1, the Owner may, acting reasonably, from time to time by
notice to the Licensee, demand the amount to be changed to that
specified in a notice and the Licensee shall, within 60 days of such
notice, change the Security to that specified and provide the Owner with
evidence of the change, except that when no Security is required under
section 7.1, this section shall not apply.


Article 8 – Notice


8.1
Where service of a notice or a document is required under this license,
the notice or documents shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have
been served if delivered to, or if sent by prepaid registered mail
addressed to, the Owner and the Licensee at the addresses specified for
each on the first page of this license, and where service is by
registered mail the notice or document shall be conclusively deemed to
have been served on the eighth day after its deposit in a Canada Post
office at any place in Canada. Provided that if there is a disruption in
mail service caused by labour dispute, civil unrest or other events
beyond the control of the parties, between mailing and actual receipt of
such notice, the party sending such notice will re-send by courier, fax
or other electronic means and such notice will only be effective if
actually received.


8.2
Either party may, by notice in writing to the other, specify another
address for service of notices under this license and after another
address is specified under this section, notices shall be mailed to that
address in accordance with this Article.


Article 9 – Miscellaneous


9.1
No term, condition, covenant or other provision herein shall be
considered to have been waived by the Owner unless such waiver is
expressed in writing by the Owner. Any such waiver of any term,
condition, covenant or other provision herein shall not be construed as
or constitute a waiver of any further or other breach of the same or any
other term, condition, covenant, or other provision and the consent or
approval of the Owner to any act by the Licensee requiring the consent
or approval of the Owner shall not be considered to waive or render
unnecessary such consents or approvals to any subsequent similar act by
the Licensee.


9.2
No remedy conferred upon or reserved to the Owner is exclusive of any
other remedy herein or provided by law, but such remedy shall be
cumulative and shall be in addition to any other remedy herein or
hereafter existing at law, in equity, or by statute.


9.3
This license shall not entitle the Licensee to exclusive possession of
the Land and the Owner may grant to others rights to use or interests in
the Land for any purpose other than that permitted herein, so long as
the grant does not materially affect the exercise of the Licensee's
rights hereunder. The question of whether a grant materially affects the
exercise of the Licensee's rights hereunder shall be determined by the
Owner acting reasonably.


9.4
The terms and provisions of this license shall extend to, be binding
upon and enure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their successors
and permitted assigns.


9.5
Time is of the essence in this agreement.


Article 10 – Dispute Resolution


10.1
In this Article,
"dispute"
means any dispute arising out of or in connection with this license or
in respect of any defined legal relationship associated with it or
derived from it.


10.2
The parties agree to attempt to resolve all disputes by negotiations
conducted in good faith and to provide timely disclosure of all relevant
facts, information and documents to further those negotiations.


10.3
If a dispute is not settled through direct negotiations, either party
may request the British Columbia International Commercial Arbitration
Centre (BCICAC) to appoint a mediator to conduct a mediation under its
mediation rules of procedure.


10.4
If a dispute is not settled within 15 days of the appointment of the
mediator or any further period of time agreed to by the parties and if
the dispute does not involve a question of public law, the dispute shall
be referred to and resolved by arbitration in accordance with sections
10.5 to 10.9.


10.5
Unless the parties otherwise agree, the arbitration shall be conducted
by a single arbitrator. The arbitrator shall be chosen by the parties;
if they fail to agree on this choice within four (4) weeks following the
commencement of their discussion, then either party may request the
British Columbia International Commercial Arbitration Centre or such
other organization or person agreed to by the parties in writing, to
select an arbitrator. The arbitrator chosen shall be independent,
impartial and competent.


10.6
The arbitrator shall render his decision in writing within thirty (30)
days after the completion of the arbitration or if thirty (30) days is
insufficient, then within such further time as is reasonable.


10.7
The arbitration shall be governed by the
Commercial Arbitration Code
referred to in the
Commercial Arbitration Act
(Canada) and except as provided in the
Commercial Arbitration Code
, the determination and award of the arbitration shall be final and
binding on both parties.


10.8
The arbitration shall take place in the Province of British Columbia, at
a location as the parties may agree and, failing agreement, at a
location as the arbitrator may decide.


10.9
During the arbitration, the parties shall continue to perform their
obligations under the license. It is not incompatible with this
arbitration agreement for a party to request from a court, before or
during the arbitration proceedings, an interim measure of protection and
for a court to grant such measure.


Article 11 – Interpretation


11.1
In this license, unless the context otherwise requires, the singular
includes the plural and the masculine includes the feminine gender and a
corporation.


11.2
The captions and headings contained in this license are for convenience
only and are not to be construed as defining or in any way limiting the
scope or intent of the provisions herein.


11.3
If any section of this license or any part of a section is found to be
illegal or unenforceable, that part or section, as the case may be,
shall be considered separate and severable and the remaining parts or
sections, as the case may be, shall not be affected thereby and shall be
enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.


IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this license as of the day
and year first above written.





SIGNED by a duly authorized signatory of

)



)


in the presence of:
)



____________________

Name


)

)


____________________

Authorized Signatory




____________________

Address


)

)



____________________
)



)







SIGNED by a duly authorized signatory of

)



the Minister of the Environment on behalf

)



of Her Majesty the Queen in right of Canada

)


in the presence of:
)



____________________

Name


)

)


____________________

Authorized Signatory




____________________

Address


)

)



____________________
)



)




LEGAL DESCRIPTION SCHEDULE

1. Legal Description
2. Sketch Plan

SPECIAL PROVISO SCHEDULE


(1) The Licensee may clear the Land and keep it cleared of all or any
part of trees, growth, buildings or obstructions now or hereafter on the
Land which might interfere with or obstruct the construction, erection,
operation, maintenance, removal or replacement of the Works pursuant to
this agreement.


(2) Despite subsection 4.1 (j) and section 6.7, at the expiration or
cancellation of this license, the Licensee may leave on the Land any
concrete foundation for the Works.




Appendix C-2

Document 9



License of Occupation for a Navigational Light


THIS AGREEMENT made this __________ day of ____________________, 199

BETWEEN:

NISG̱A'A NATION
, of


____________________

(the "Owner")

AND:

HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN IN RIGHT OF CANADA

c/o Superintendent, Navigational Aids, Canadian Coast Guard

Marine Navigation Services

25 Huron Street

Victoria BC V8V 4V9

(the "Licensee")

Whereas the Owner has agreed to grant to the Licensee a license to enter
on and use that parcel of land (the "Land") located generally in the
vicinity of ________________ and described in the schedule attached and
entitled "Legal Description";


Now therefore in consideration of the fee to be paid by and the
covenants of the Licensee, the parties agree as follows:


Article 1 – Grant of License


1.1
The Owner, on the terms set forth herein, hereby grants to the Licensee
a license to enter on and use the Land for the purpose of constructing,
installing, erecting, maintaining, operating, repairing and replacing a
marine navigation aid.


Article 2 – Duration


2.1
The duration of the license and the rights herein granted shall be for a
term of 20 years commencing on the
day of , 199 (the
"Commencement Date") unless cancelled in accordance with the terms
hereof.


2.2
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this licence, so long as:


(a) the Licensee is not in default of any of the material terms of
conditions of this licence, and


(b) the Licensee has given the Owner, not more than _______ days prior
to the expiration of the term herein granted, notice in writing of the
Licensee's wish to re-apply for a new licence of the Land,


the Owner may agree to offer a new licence to the Licensee by notice to
the Licensee, in writing, on the terms and conditions determined by the
Owner and contained in the notice. The Licensee shall have a period of
sixty (60) days from the date of receipt of the notice from the Owner to
accept a new licence of the Land by executing the new licence contained
in the notice and delivering it to the Owner.


Article 3 -- License Fee


3.1
The Licensee shall pay to the Owner a license fee of $1.00 on the
Commencement Date for the entire term of this license.


Article 4 – Covenants of the Licensee


4.1
The Licensee covenants with the Owner:


(a) to pay the license fee due at the address of the Owner set out above
or at such other place as the Owner may specify from time to time by the
giving of notice to the Licensee in accordance with Article 8;


(b) to pay and discharge when due all applicable taxes, levies, charges
and assessments now or hereafter assessed, levied or charged which
relate to the Land or any of the Licensee's (or any sublicensee's of the
Licensee) improvements thereon (the "Realty Taxes") that the Licensee is
liable to pay;


(c) to observe, abide by and comply with all applicable laws, bylaws,
orders, directions, ordinances and regulations of any competent
government authority in any way affecting the Land and improvements
situate thereon, or their use and occupation;


(d) not to commit or suffer any wilful or voluntary waste, spoil or
destruction on the Land or do or suffer to be done thereon by its
employees, contractors, agents, invitees or anyone for whom the Licensee
is responsible at law anything that may be or become a nuisance to the
Owner or to the occupiers of adjoining land;


(e) to deliver to the Owner from time to time, upon demand, proof of
insurance provided for in subsection (k), receipts or other evidence of
payment of Realty Taxes, insurance premiums and other monetary
obligations of the Licensee required to be observed by the Licensee
pursuant to this license;


(f) subject to the
Crown Liability and Proceedings Act
(Canada) and the
Financial Administration Act
(Canada), to indemnify and save harmless the Owner against all losses,
damages, costs and liabilities, arising out of:


(i) any breach, violation or non-performance of any covenant, condition
or agreement in this license by the Licensee; and


(ii) any personal injury, death or property damage arising out of the
Licensee's use and occupation of the Land,


and the Owner may add the amount of such losses, damages, costs and
liabilities to the Fee and the amount so added shall be payable to the
Owner immediately;


(g) to keep the Land in a safe, clean and sanitary condition
satisfactory to the Owner acting reasonably, and to make safe, clean and
sanitary any portion of the Land or any improvement thereon that the
Owner, acting reasonably, may direct by notice in writing to the
Licensee;


(h) to permit the Owner or its authorized representative to enter upon
the Land at any time to examine its condition;


(i) to use and occupy the Land in accordance with the provisions of this
license including those set forth in the schedule attached and entitled
"Special Provisos";


(j) on the expiration or at the earlier cancellation of this license:


(i) to quit peaceably and deliver possession of the Land to the Owner,


(ii) to remove from the Land all buildings, machinery, plant equipment
and apparatus and all other improvements to or things on the Land
erected or placed on the Land by the Licensee; and


(iii) to restore the surface of the Land to the satisfaction of the
Owner acting reasonably,


and to the extent necessary, this covenant shall survive the expiration
or cancellation of this license;


(k) to effect and keep in force during the term insurance protecting the
Owner and the Licensee (without any rights of cross-claim or subrogation
against the Owner) against claims for personal injury, death, property
damage or third party or public liability claims arising from any
accident or occurrence on the Land to an amount not less than
$1,000,000.00; provided, however, that so long as the Licensee is Her
Majesty the Queen in right of Canada or a Canada Crown corporation, the
Owner will waive the requirements of this subsection on the delivery to
the Owner of evidence that the Licensee is self insured;


(l) notwithstanding subsection (k), the Owner may from time to time
notify the Licensee that the amount of insurance posted by the Licensee
pursuant to that subsection be changed and the Licensee shall, within 60
days of receiving such notice, cause the amount of insurance posted,
pursuant to subsection (k) to be changed to the amount specified by the
Owner, acting reasonably, in the notice and deliver to the Owner written
confirmation of the change, except that when the Licensee is
self-insuring this section shall not apply; and


(m) not to interfere with the activities of any other person to enter on
and use the Land under a subsequent right or interest granted by the
Owner in accordance with Section 9.3.


Article 5 – Assignment


5.1
The Licensee shall not assign this license or grant a sublicense of any
part of the Land without the prior written consent of the Owner, which
consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.


5.2
Notwithstanding section 5.1, the Licensee may, without the prior written
consent of the Owner assign its interest in all or a part of the Land to
a Canada crown corporation provided that the Licensee gives written
notice of any such change, at least 120 days prior to the next
anniversary date of the term of this license.


5.3
No assignment or sublicensing pursuant to sections 5.1 or 5.2, nor the
Owner's consent thereto, will relieve the Licensee from the observance
and performance of the Licensee's obligations contained in this licence.


Article 6 – Cancellation


6.1
In the event that the Licensee fails to observe or perform any term
contained herein, and such failure continues after the giving of the
written notice by the Owner to the Licensee of the nature of the failure
for a period of:

(a) 30 days; or

(b) 150 days, if the failure because of its nature would reasonably
require more than 30 days to cure, and provided that the Licensee is
proceeding diligently and continuously to cure the failure throughout;


then, and in any such case, the Owner may cancel this license and,
notwithstanding subsection (j) of section 4.1, any fixtures to the Land
shall become, at the discretion of the Owner, the property of the Owner.


6.2
In the event that this license is taken in execution or attachment by
any person, or the Licensee commits an act of bankruptcy, becomes
insolvent or is petitioned into bankruptcy or voluntarily enters into an
arrangement with his creditors, the Owner may, on 90 days written notice
to the Licensee, cancel this license and the rights herein granted.


6.3
In the event that the Licensee ceases to use the Land for the purposes
permitted herein and the Licensee does not recommence its use of the
Land within 180 days of receipt of written notice from the Owner, the
Owner may immediately cancel this license and the rights herein granted.


6.4
In the event that the Owner requires a portion of the Land for a public
purpose, the Owner may, in accordance with section 6.5 and on 180 days
written notice to the Licensee, cancel this license and the rights
herein granted with respect to no more than 5% of the whole of the Land.


6.5
Concurrently with the notice referred to in section 6.4, the Owner will
give the licensee written notice that the Owner will, at its cost,
relocate the Licensee's structures and improvements which are materially
affected by the cancellation in Section 6.4 to a different location on
the Land or to a location on other land immediately adjacent to the Land
(the "New Location"). The New Location must, in the reasonable opinion
of the Licensee, be of sufficient size to accommodate the Licensee's
structures and improvements and be equally suitable for the purposes of
the Licensee. The Owner will pay for any reasonable costs of moving the
Licensee and its structures and improvements to the New Location. If the
Licensee's structures and improvements cannot be moved to the New
Location, the Owner will pay to the Licensee the reasonable costs of
constructing new improvements on the New Location. As full compensation
for all other costs, expenses and damages which the Licensee may incur
in connection with the relocation, including disruption and loss of
business, the parties shall agree on a lump sum payment and failing
agreement, the matter shall be referred to arbitration pursuant to
Article 10. All other terms and conditions of this license will apply to
the New Location for the balance of the original term.


6.6
The Licensee may deliver a written notice to the Owner cancelling this
license and thereafter the license and the rights herein granted will
terminate 180 days after the date of receipt by the Owner of such
written notice.


6.7
Notwithstanding subsection (j) of section 4.1, any buildings, machinery,
plant, equipment and apparatus and all other improvements to the Land
(collectively, the "Improvements") that remain unremoved from the Land:


(a) upon the cancellation of this license pursuant to section 6.1,
section 6.4 or section 6.6; or


(b) thirty days after the expiration or cancellation of this license
pursuant to section 6.2 or section 6.3 (provided that if because of the
nature of the Improvements or because of other constraints beyond the
control of the Licensee, including weather, and provided that the
Licensee is proceeding diligently and continuously to remove such
Improvements, the 30 day time for removal will be extended to 150 days
after the expiration or cancellation of this license)


shall, at the discretion of the Owner, be forfeited to and become the
property of the Owner.


6.8
If the Owner elects to assume ownership of any Improvements pursuant to
section 6.7, the Owner may remove them from the Land and the Licensee
shall, on demand, compensate the Owner for all costs incurred by the
Owner respecting their removal.


6.9
The rights of the Owner under section 6.7 and section 6.8 shall be
deemed to survive the expiration or earlier cancellation of this
license.


Article 7 – Security


7.1
The security in the sum of $· and all rights, privileges, benefits and
interests accruing thereto delivered by the Licensee to the Owner
(herein called the "Security") to guarantee the performance of the
Licensee's obligations under this license shall be maintained in effect
until such time as the Owner certifies in writing that such obligations
have been fully performed. So long as the Licensee is Her Majesty in
right of Canada or a Canada crown corporation, the Owner will waive the
requirements of this subsection.


7.2
In the event the Licensee defaults in the performance of any of its
obligations hereunder, the Owner may, in its sole discretion, sell, call
in and convert the Security, or any part of it, and such Security shall
be deemed to have been absolutely forfeited to the Owner.


7.3
The rights of the Owner under this Article shall be deemed to continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding the expiration or earlier
cancellation of this license.


7.4
Notwithstanding any amount of Security stated to be required under
section 7.1 the Owner may, acting reasonably, from time to time by
notice to the Licensee, demand the amount to be changed to that
specified in a notice and the Licensee shall, within 60 days of such
notice, change the Security to that specified and provide the Owner with
evidence of the change, except that when no Security is required under
section 7.1 this section shall not apply.


Article 8 – Notice


8.1
Where service of a notice or a document is required under this license,
the notice or documents shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have
been served if delivered to, or if sent by prepaid registered mail
addressed to, the Owner and the Licensee at the addresses specified for
each on the first page of this license, and where service is by
registered mail the notice or document shall be conclusively deemed to
have been served on the eighth day after its deposit in a Canada Post
office at any place in Canada. Provided that if there is a disruption in
mail service caused by labour dispute, civil unrest or other events
beyond the control of the parties, between mailing and actual receipt of
such notice, the party sending such notice will re-send by courier, fax
or other electronic means and such notice will only be effective if
actually received.


8.2
Either party may, by notice in writing to the other, specify another
address for service of notices under this license and after another
address is specified under this section, notices shall be mailed to that
address in accordance with this Article.


Article 9 – Miscellaneous


9.1
No term, condition, covenant or other provision herein shall be
considered to have been waived by the Owner unless such waiver is
expressed in writing by the Owner. Any such waiver of any term,
condition, covenant or other provision herein shall not be construed as
or constitute a waiver of any further or other breach of the same or any
other term, condition, covenant, or other provision and the consent or
approval of the Owner to any act by the Licensee requiring the consent
or approval of the Owner shall not be considered to waive or render
unnecessary such consents or approvals to any subsequent similar act by
the Licensee.


9.2
No remedy conferred upon or reserved to the Owner is exclusive of any
other remedy herein or provided by law, but such remedy shall be
cumulative and shall be in addition to any other remedy herein or
hereafter existing at law, in equity, or by statute.


9.3
This license shall not entitle the Licensee to exclusive possession of
the Land and the Owner may grant to others rights to use or interests in
the Land for any purpose other than that permitted herein, so long as
the grant or authorization does not materially affect the exercise of
the Licensee's rights hereunder. The question of whether a grant
materially affects the exercise of the Licensee's rights hereunder shall
be determined by the Owner acting reasonably. If the Owner, by written
instrument, grants a license, right or interest to others to use or
occupy the Land, such grant will contain a provision identical to
subsection 4.1 (g) of this license obligating the new grantee to keep
the Land in a safe, clean and sanitary condition satisfactory to the
Owner.


9.4
The terms and provisions of this license shall extend to, be binding
upon and enure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their successors
and permitted assigns.


9.5
Time is of the essence in this agreement.


Article 10 – Dispute Resolution


10.1
In this Article,
"dispute"
means any dispute arising out of or in connection with this licence or
in respect of any defined legal relationship associated with it or
derived from it.


10.2
The parties agree to attempt to resolve all disputes by negotiations
conducted in good faith and to provide timely disclosure of all relevant
facts, information and documents to further those negotiations.


10.3
If a dispute is not settled through direct negotiations, either party
may request the British Columbia International Commercial Arbitration
Centre (BCICAC) to appoint a mediator to conduct a mediation under its
mediation rules of procedure.


10.4
If a dispute is not settled within 15 days of the appointment of the
mediator or any further period of time agreed to by the parties and if
the dispute does not involve a question of public law, the dispute shall
be referred to and resolved by arbitration in accordance with sections
10.5 to 10.9.


10.5
Unless the parties otherwise agree, the arbitration shall be conducted
by a single arbitrator. The arbitrator shall be chosen by the parties;
if they fail to agree on this choice within four (4) weeks following the
commencement of their discussion, then either party may request the
British Columbia International Commercial Arbitration Centre or such
other organization or person agreed to by the parties in writing, to
select an arbitrator. The arbitrator chosen shall be independent,
impartial and competent.


10.6
The arbitrator shall render his decision in writing within thirty (30)
days after the completion of the arbitration or if thirty (30) days is
insufficient, then within such further time as is reasonable.


10.7
The arbitration shall be governed by the
Commercial Arbitration Code
referred to in the
Commercial Arbitration Act
(Canada) and except as provided in the
Commercial Arbitration Code
, the determination and award of the arbitration shall be final and
binding on both parties.


10.8
The arbitration shall take place in the Province of British Columbia, at
a location as the parties may agree and, failing agreement, at a
location as the arbitrator may decide.


10.9
During the arbitration, the parties shall continue to perform their
obligations under the license. It is not incompatible with this
arbitration agreement for a party to request from a court, before or
during the arbitration proceedings, an interim measure of protection and
for a court to grant such measure.


Article 11 – Interpretation


11.1
In this license, unless the context otherwise requires, the singular
includes the plural and the masculine includes the feminine gender and a
corporation.


11.2
The captions and headings contained in this license are for convenience
only and are not to be construed as defining or in any way limiting the
scope or intent of the provisions herein.


11.3
If any section of this license or any part of a section is found to be
illegal or unenforceable, that part or section, as the case may be,
shall be considered separate and severable and the remaining parts or
sections, as the case may be, shall not be affected thereby and shall be
enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.


IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this license as of the day
and year first above written.





SIGNED by a duly authorized signatory of

)



)


in the presence of:
)



____________________

Name


)

)


____________________

Authorized Signatory




____________________

Address


)

)



____________________
)



)







SIGNED by a duly authorized signatory of

)



the Minister of Fisheries and Oceans on

)



behalf of Her Majesty the Queen in right of

)


Canada in the presence of
)



____________________

Name


)

)


____________________

Authorized Signatory




____________________

Address


)

)



____________________
)



)




LEGAL DESCRIPTION SCHEDULE

1. Legal Description
2. Sketch Plan

SPECIAL PROVISO SCHEDULE

Special Provisos:

(1) The Licensee may clear the Land and keep it cleared of all or any
part of trees, growth, buildings or obstructions now or hereafter on the
Land which might interfere with or obstruct the construction, erection,
operation, maintenance, removal or replacement of the Navigational
Light.


(2) Despite subsection 4.1 (j) and section 6.7, at the expiration or
cancellation of this License, the Licensee may leave on the Land any
concrete foundation for the Navigational Light.




Appendix C-2

Document 10



License of Occupation for Telephone Exchange


THIS AGREEMENT made this __________ day of ____________________, 199

BETWEEN:

NISG̱A'A NATION
, of


____________________

(the "Owner")

AND:

BC TEL
, of


____________________

(the "Licensee")


Whereas the Owner has agreed to grant to the Licensee a license to enter
on and use that parcel of land (the "Land") located generally in the
vicinity of ________________ and described in the schedule attached and
entitled "Legal Description";


Now therefore in consideration of the fee to be paid by, and the
covenants of, the Licensee, the parties agree as follows:


Article 1 – Grant of License


1.1
The Owner, on the terms set forth herein, hereby grants to the Licensee
a license to enter on and use the Land for the purpose of constructing,
maintaining, repairing, replacing, removing and operating for
communication purposes any building, road, antennae, pole, cable,
strand, powerline or other physical infrastructure shown in the site
plan forming part of the Legal Description Schedule (the "Civil
Infrastructure").


Article 2 – Duration


2.1
The duration of the license and the rights herein granted shall be for a
term of 20 years commencing on the
day of , 199 (the "Commencement
Date") unless cancelled in accordance with Article 6.


2.2
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this license, so long as:


(a) the Licensee is not in default of any of the material terms or
conditions of this license; and


(b) the Licensee has given the Owner, not more than · days prior to the
expiration of the term herein granted, notice in writing of the
Licensee's wish to re-apply for a new license to enter on and use the
Land


the Owner may agree to offer a new license to the Licensee by notice to
the Licensee, in writing, on the terms and conditions determined by the
Owner and contained in the notice. The Licensee shall have a period of
60 days from the date of receipt of the notice from the Owner to accept
a new license to enter on and use the Land by executing the new license
contained in the notice and delivering it to the Owner.


Article 3 – License Fee


3.1
The Licensee shall pay to the Owner an annual license fee during the
term of this license, in advance, as follows:


(a) during the first five years of the term of this license (the
"Initial Fee Period"), the Licensee shall pay to the Owner:


(i) on the Commencement Date, the sum of $500.00; and


(ii) on each annual anniversary of the Commencement Date during the
Initial Fee Period, a sum equal to the greater of:


(1) the annual license fee for the immediately preceding year; or


(2) the amount which would be payable on that date under the
then-existing policies of the Province of British Columbia with respect
to the payment of rent for communication sites located on similar Crown
Land (the "Provincial Policies"); and


(b) during each subsequent five year period over the term of this
license (a "Subsequent Fee Period"), the Licensee shall pay to the Owner
on each annual anniversary of the Commencement Date a sum equal to the
greatest of:


(i) the annual license fee for the immediately preceding year,


(ii) the amount which would be payable on that date under the
then-existing Provincial Policies, or


(iii) the annual fair market rent for the Subsequent Fee Period, if that
annual fair market rent has been determined:


(1) by written agreement between the Owner and the Licensee prior to the
Subsequent Fee Period; or


(2) pursuant to the dispute resolution process set out in Article 10,
invoked by the Owner or the Licensee prior to the Subsequent Fee Period.


3.2
In this Article,
"annual fair market rent"
means the fee which a willing licensee at arm's length from the Owner
would pay to the Owner in respect of the Land excluding any allocation
of value to any fixtures or improvements located on the Land:

(a) belonging to the Licensee; or
(b) not available for use by the Licensee.

Article 4 – Covenants of the Licensee


4.1
The Licensee covenants with the Owner:


(a) to pay the license fee due at the address of the Owner set out above
or at such other place as the Owner may specify from time to time by the
giving of notice to the Licensee in accordance with Article 8;


(b) to pay and discharge when due all applicable taxes, levies, charges
and assessments now or hereafter assessed, levied or charged that relate
to the Land or any of the Licensee's improvements thereon (the "Realty
Taxes") that the Licensee is liable to pay;


(c) to observe, abide by and comply with all applicable laws, bylaws,
orders, directions, ordinances and regulations of any competent
government authority in any way affecting the Land and improvements
situate thereon, or their use and occupation;


(d) not to commit or suffer any wilful or voluntary waste, spoil or
destruction on the Land or do or suffer to be done thereon by its
employees, contractors, agents, invitees or anyone for whom the Licensee
is responsible at law anything that may be or become a nuisance to the
Owner or to the occupiers of adjoining land;


(e) to deliver to the Owner from time to time, upon demand, proof of
insurance provided for in subsection (k), receipts or other evidence of
payment of Realty Taxes, insurance premiums and other monetary
obligations of the Licensee required to be observed by the Licensee
pursuant to this license;


(f) to indemnify and save harmless the Owner against all losses,
damages, costs and liabilities, including fees of solicitors and other
professional advisors, arising out of:


(i) any breach, violation or non-performance of any covenant, condition
or agreement in this license by the Licensee, or


(ii) any personal injury, death or property damage arising out of the
Licensee's use and occupation of the Land


and the Owner may add the amount of such losses, damages, costs and
liabilities to the Fee and the amount so added shall be payable to the
Owner immediately;


(g) to keep the Land in a safe, clean and sanitary condition
satisfactory to the Owner acting reasonably, and to make safe, clean and
sanitary any portion of the Land or any improvement thereon that the
Owner, acting reasonably, may direct by notice in writing to the
Licensee;


(h) to permit the Owner or its authorized representative to enter upon
the Land at any time to examine its condition;


(i) to use and occupy the Land in accordance with the provisions of this
license including those set forth in the schedule attached and entitled
"Special Provisos";


(j) on the expiration or at the earlier cancellation of this license:


(i) to quit peaceably and deliver possession of the Land to the Owner,


(ii) to remove from the Land all above-ground buildings, machinery,
plant equipment and apparatus and all other improvements to or things on
the Land erected or placed on the Land by the Licensee, and


(iii) to restore the surface of the Land to the satisfaction of the
Owner acting reasonably,


and to the extent necessary, this covenant shall survive the expiration
or cancellation of this license;


(k) to effect and keep in force during the term insurance protecting the
Owner and the Licensee (without any rights of cross-claim or subrogation
against the Owner) against claims for personal injury, death, property
damage or third party or public liability claims arising from any
accident or occurrence on the Land to an amount not less than
$1,000,000.00; except, however, that the Owner may, in its sole
discretion, waive the requirements of this subsection on the delivery to
the Owner of evidence that the Licensee is self insured;


(l) notwithstanding subsection (k), the Owner may from time to time
notify the Licensee that the amount of insurance posted by the Licensee
pursuant to that subsection be changed and the Licensee shall, within 60
days of receiving such notice, cause the amount of insurance posted,
pursuant to subsection (k) to be changed to the amount specified by the
Owner, acting reasonably, in the notice and deliver to the Owner written
confirmation of the change, except that when the Licensee is
self-insuring this section shall not apply; and


(m) not to interfere with the activities, works or other improvements of
any other person who enters on or uses or occupies the Land under a
subsequent right or interest granted by the Owner, or who is otherwise
authorized by the Owner to enter on or use or occupy the Land, in
accordance with Section 9.3; and


(n) on request of the Owner, to provide to the Owner an inventory of
communication uses sufficient to allow the calculation of fees under the
Provincial Policies.


Article 5 – Assignment


5.1
The Licensee shall not assign this license or grant a sublicense of any
part of the Land without the prior written consent of the Owner, which
consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.


5.2
Notwithstanding section 5.1, the Licensee may, without the prior written
consent of the Owner, assign its interest in all or a part of the Land
to an affiliate (as defined in the
Company Act,
RSBC 1996) of the Licensee provided that the Licensee gives written
notice of any such change at least 120 days prior to the next
anniversary date of the term of this license.


5.3
No assignment or sublicensing pursuant to sections 5.1 or 5.2, nor the
Owner's consent thereto, will relieve the Licensee from the observance
and performance of the Licensee's obligations contained in this license.


Article 6 – Cancellation


6.1
If the Licensee fails to observe or perform any term contained herein,
and such failure continues after the giving of the written notice by the
Owner to the Licensee of the nature of the failure for a period of:

(a) 30 days; or

(b) 150 days, if the failure because of its nature would reasonably
require more than 30 days to cure, and provided that the Licensee is
proceeding diligently and continuously to cure the failure throughout;


then the Owner may cancel this license and, notwithstanding subsection
4.1 (j), any fixtures to the Land shall become, at the discretion of the
Owner, the property of the Owner.


6.2
If this license is taken in execution or attachment by any person, or
the Licensee commits an act of bankruptcy, becomes insolvent, is
petitioned into bankruptcy or voluntarily enters into an arrangement
with his creditors, the Owner may, on 90 days written notice to the
Licensee, cancel this license and the rights herein granted.


6.3
If the Licensee ceases to use the Land for the purposes permitted herein
and the Licensee does not recommence its use of the Land within 180 days
of receipt of written notice from the Owner, the Owner may immediately
cancel this license and the rights herein granted.


6.4
If the Owner requires a portion of the Land for a public purpose, the
Owner may, in accordance with section 6.5 and on 180 days written notice
to the Licensee, cancel this license and the rights herein granted with
respect to the whole or any part of the Land.


6.5
Concurrently with the notice referred to in section 6.4, the Owner will
give the Licensee written notice that the Owner will, at its cost,
relocate the Licensee's structures and improvements that are materially
affected by the cancellation in Section 6.4 to a different location
on the Land or to a location on other land in the vicinity of the Land
(the "New Location"). The New Location must, in the reasonable opinion
of the Licensee, be of sufficient size to accommodate the Licensee's
structures and improvements and be equally suitable for the purposes of
the Licensee. The Owner will pay for any reasonable costs of moving the
Licensee and its structures and improvements to the New Location. If the
Licensee's structures and improvements cannot be moved to the New
Location, the Owner will pay to the Licensee the reasonable costs of
constructing new improvements on the New Location. As full compensation
for all other costs, expenses and damages that the Licensee may incur in
connection with the relocation, including disruption and loss of
business, the parties shall agree on a lump sum payment and failing
agreement, the matter shall be referred to arbitration pursuant to
Article 10. All other terms and conditions of this license will apply to
the New Location for the balance of the original term.


6.6
The Licensee may deliver a written notice to the Owner cancelling this
license and thereafter the license and the rights herein granted will
terminate 180 days after the date of receipt by the Owner of such
written notice.


6.7
Notwithstanding subsection 4.1 (j), any building, machinery, plant,
equipment, apparatus or other improvements to the Land (collectively,
the "Improvements") that remains unremoved from the Land:


(a) upon the cancellation of this license pursuant to section 6.1,
section 6.4 or section 6.6; or


(b) thirty days after the expiration of this license or the cancellation
of this license pursuant to section 6.2 or section 6.3 (provided that if
further time is reasonably required because of the nature of the
Improvements or because of other constraints beyond the control of the
Licensee, including weather, and provided that the Licensee is
proceeding diligently and continuously to remove such Improvements, the
30 day time for removal will be extended to 150 days after the
expiration or cancellation of this license),


shall, at the discretion of the Owner, be forfeited to and become the
property of the Owner.


6.8
If the Owner elects to assume ownership of any Improvements pursuant to
section 6.7, the Owner may remove them from the Land and the Licensee
shall, on demand, compensate the Owner for all costs incurred by the
Owner respecting their removal.


6.9
The rights of the Owner under section 6.7 and section 6.8 shall be
deemed to survive the expiration or earlier cancellation of this
license.


Article 7 – Security


7.1
The security in the sum of $· and all rights, privileges, benefits and
interests accruing thereto delivered by the Licensee to the Owner
(herein called the "Security") to guarantee the performance of the
Licensee's obligations under this license shall be maintained in effect
until such time as the Owner certifies in writing that such obligations
have been fully performed. The Owner may, in its sole discretion, waive
the requirements of this section.


7.2
In the event the Licensee defaults in the performance of any of its
obligations hereunder, the Owner may, in its sole discretion, sell, call
in and convert the Security, or any part of it, and such Security shall
be deemed to have been absolutely forfeited to the Owner.


7.3
The rights of the Owner under this Article shall be deemed to continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding the expiration or earlier
cancellation of this license.


7.4
Notwithstanding any amount of Security stated to be required under
section 7.1, the Owner may, acting reasonably, from time to time by
notice to the Licensee, demand the amount to be changed to that
specified in a notice and the Licensee shall, within 60 days of such
notice, change the Security to that specified and provide the Owner with
evidence of the change, except that while Security is waived under
section 7.1, this section shall not apply.


Article 8 – Notice


8.1
Whenever service of a notice or a document is required under this
license, the notice or documents shall be in writing and shall be deemed
to have been served if delivered to, or if sent by prepaid registered
mail addressed to, the Owner or the Licensee, as the case may be, at the
addresses specified for each on the first page of this license, and
where service is by registered mail the notice or document shall be
conclusively deemed to have been served on the eighth day after its
deposit in a Canada Post office at any place in Canada. If there is a
disruption in mail service caused by labour dispute, civil unrest or
other events beyond the control of the parties, between mailing and
actual receipt of such notice, the party sending such notice will
re-send by courier, fax or other electronic means and such notice will
only be effective if actually received.


8.2
Either party may, by notice in writing to the other, specify another
address for service of notices under this license and after another
address has been specified under this section, notices shall be mailed
to that address in accordance with this Article.


Article 9 – Miscellaneous


9.1
No term, condition, covenant or other provision herein shall be
considered to have been waived by the Owner unless such waiver is
expressed in writing by the Owner. Any such waiver of any term,
condition, covenant or other provision herein shall not be construed as
or constitute a waiver of any further or other breach of the same or any
other term, condition, covenant, or other provision and the consent or
approval of the Owner to any act by the Licensee requiring the consent
or approval of the Owner shall not be considered to waive or render
unnecessary such consents or approvals to any subsequent similar act by
the Licensee.


9.2
No remedy conferred upon or reserved to the Owner is exclusive of any
other remedy herein or provided by law, but such remedy shall be
cumulative and shall be in addition to any other remedy herein or
hereafter existing at law, in equity, or by statute.


9.3
This license shall not entitle the Licensee to exclusive possession of
the Land and the Owner may, for any purpose, grant to others interests
in the Land or rights to enter on or use or occupy the Land, or may
otherwise authorize other persons to enter on or use or occupy the Land,
so long as the grant or authorization does not materially affect the
exercise of the Licensee's rights hereunder. The question of whether a
grant materially affects the exercise of the Licensee's rights hereunder
shall be determined by the Owner acting reasonably. If the Owner, by
written instrument, grants a license, right or interest to others to use
or occupy the Land, such grant will contain a provision identical to
subsection 4.1 (g) of this license obligating the new grantee to keep
the Land in a safe, clean and sanitary condition satisfactory to the
Owner.


9.4
The terms and provisions of this license shall extend to, be binding
upon and enure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their successors
and permitted assigns.


9.5
Time is of the essence in this agreement.


Article 10 – Dispute Resolution


10.1
In this Article,
"dispute"
means any dispute arising out of or in connection with this license or
in respect of any defined legal relationship associated with it or
derived from it.


10.2
The parties agree to attempt to resolve all disputes by negotiations
conducted in good faith and to provide timely disclosure of all relevant
facts, information and documents to further those negotiations.


10.3
If a dispute is not settled through direct negotiations either party may
request the British Columbia International Commercial Arbitration Centre
(BCICAC) to appoint a mediator to conduct a mediation under its
mediation rules of procedure.


10.4
If a dispute is not settled within 15 days of the appointment of the
mediator or any further period of time agreed to by the parties, the
dispute shall be referred to and finally resolved by arbitration before
a single arbitrator under the arbitration rules of procedure of the
BCICAC.


10.5
If the BCICAC is unavailable or unable to administer the mediation or
arbitration of a dispute under its rules of procedure, the parties will
select the rules of another institution.


Article 11 – Interpretation


11.1
In this license, unless the context otherwise requires, the singular
includes the plural and the masculine includes the feminine gender and a
corporation.


11.2
The captions and headings contained in this license are for convenience
only and are not to be construed as defining or in any way limiting the
scope or intent of the provisions herein.


11.3
If any section of this license or any part of a section is found to be
illegal or unenforceable, that part or section, as the case may be,
shall be considered separate and severable and the remaining parts and
sections of this license shall not be affected thereby and shall be
enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.


IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this license as of the day
and year first above written.





SIGNED by a duly authorized signatory of

)



)


in the presence of:
)



____________________

Name


)

)


____________________

Authorized Signatory




____________________

Address


)

)



____________________
)



)







SIGNED by a duly authorized signatory of

)



)



____________________

Name


)

)


____________________

Authorized Signatory




____________________

Address


)

)



____________________
)



)




LEGAL DESCRIPTION SCHEDULE

1. Legal Description
2. Sketch Plan



Appendix C-2

Document 11



Permit of Occupation for Waterworks


THIS AGREEMENT made this __________ day of ____________________, 199

BETWEEN:

NISG̱A'A NATION
, of


____________________

(the "Owner")

AND:

The Holder of British Columbia Conditional Water Licence
____________________ , being as

of the date of this Agreement ____________________

of ____________________

("the Permittee")


WHEREAS the Owner has agreed to grant to the Permittee a permit in
respect of that parcel of Nisg̱a'a Lands ("the Land") described in the
attached Schedule "A", entitled Legal Description Schedule;


NOW THEREFORE in consideration of the fee to be paid by, and the
covenants of, the Permittee, the Owner and the Permittee agree as
follows:


Article 1 – Grant of Permit


1.1
The Owner, on the terms set forth therein, hereby grants to the
Permittee a permit to occupy the Land for the purpose of constructing,
reconstructing, replacing, maintaining and operating thereon works
necessary for the conveyance of water from

(watercourse)

to

(legal description)

("the Appurtenant Property"), in accordance with British Columbia
Conditional Water Licence ____________________ ("the Water Licence") and
for the purposes specified in the Water Licence on the date of this
Agreement (the "Commencement Date").


Article 2 – The Land


2.1
The Land that is authorized to be occupied under this permit is
described in the Schedule attached and entitled "Legal Description".


Article 3 – Timber Cutting


3.1
The Permittee may cut and remove from the Land any timber, shrubs or
foliage necessary to permit the construction, reconstruction,
replacement, maintenance and operation of the works referred to in
section 1.1, provided that prior to the cutting or removal of any
timber, the Permittee will apply for and obtain from the Owner a timber
licence under which the Owner, acting reasonably, may determine the
amount of compensation which the Permittee will pay to the Owner in
respect of trees that are cut, removed, damaged, or destroyed by the
Permittee.


Article 4 – Permit Fee


4.1
On the Commencement Date and on each anniversary of the Commencement
Date, the Permittee shall pay to the Owner a permit fee ("the Annual
Permit Fee") in accordance with this Article.


4.2
On the Commencement Date, the Annual Permit Fee is $6.00.


4.3
The Owner may at any time and in its discretion revise the Annual Permit
Fee by giving notice to the Permittee in accordance with Article 8, but
the Owner shall not at any time increase the Annual Permit Fee above the
rental charged by British Columbia at that time for a similar permit to
occupy Crown land.


Article 5 – Covenants of the Permittee


5.1
The Permittee covenants with the Owner:


(a) to pay the Annual Permit Fee due at the address of the Owner set out
above or at such other place as the Owner may specify from time to time
by giving notice to the Permittee in accordance with Article 8;


(b) to pay and discharge when due all applicable taxes, levies, charges
and assessments now or hereafter assessed, levied or charged which
relate to the Land or any improvements of the Permittee thereon (the
"Realty Taxes") which the Permittee is liable to pay;


(c) to observe, abide by and comply with all applicable laws, bylaws,
orders, directions, ordinances and regulations of any competent
government authority in any way affecting the Land or improvements
situate thereon, or their use and occupation;


(d) not to commit or suffer any wilful or voluntary waste, spoil or
destruction on the Land, or do or suffer to be done thereon by the
Permittee's employees, contractors, agents, invitees or anyone for whom
the Permittee is responsible at law anything that may be or become a
nuisance to the Owner or to the occupiers of adjoining land;


(e) to deliver to the Owner from time to time, upon demand, receipts or
other evidence of payment of Realty Taxes, and other monetary
obligations of the Permittee required to be observed by the Permittee
pursuant to this permit;


(f) to indemnify and save the Owner harmless against all losses,
damages, costs and liabilities, including fees of solicitors and other
professional advisors, arising out of:


(i) any breach, violation or non-performance of any covenant, condition
or agreement in this permit by the Permittee, or


(ii) any personal injury, death or property damage arising out of the
Permittee's use and occupation of the Land,


and the Owner may add the amount of such losses, damages, costs and
liabilities to the permit fee and the amount so added shall be payable
to the Owner immediately;


(g) with respect to the Permittee's use and occupation of the Land, to
keep the Land in a safe, clean and sanitary condition satisfactory to
the Owner acting reasonably, and with respect to the Permittee's use and
occupation of the Land, to make clean and sanitary any portion of the
Land or any improvement thereon that the Owner, acting reasonably, may
direct by notice in writing to the Permittee;


(h) on the termination or cancellation of this permit:


(i) to quit peaceably and deliver possession of the Land to the Owner,


(ii) to remove from the Land all above-ground works and other
improvements to or things on the Land erected or placed on the Land by
the Permittee, and


(iii) to restore the surface of the Land to a condition satisfactory to
the Owner, acting reasonably,


and to the extent necessary, this covenant shall survive the termination
or cancellation of this permit; and


(i) not to interfere with the activities, works or other improvements of
any other person who enters on, uses or occupies the Land under a
subsequent right or interest granted by the Owner, or who is otherwise
authorized by the Owner to enter on or use or occupy the Land, in
accordance with Article 9.


Article 6 – Appurtenance and Assignment


6.1
This permit is appurtenant to the Appurtenant Property and passes with a
conveyance or other disposition of the estate in fee simple to the
Appurtenant Property.


6.2
The Permittee shall give written notice to the Owner of any conveyance
or other disposition of the estate in fee simple to the Appurtenant
Property within 60 days after that conveyance or other disposition.


6.3
Subject to section 6.1, the Permittee shall not assign this permit or
grant a subpermit in respect of any part of the Land without the prior
written consent of the Owner.


6.4
This permit burdens the Land.


Article 7 – Termination and Cancellation


7.1
This permit terminates if the Water Licence terminates, is abandoned or
cancelled, or is amended so as to render this permit unnecessary.


7.2
If the Permittee fails to observe or perform any of the covenants,
agreements, provisions or conditions contained herein, and such failure
continues for a period of 60 days after the giving of the written notice
by the Owner to the Permittee of the nature of the failure, the Owner
may cancel this permit and the rights herein granted.


7.3
If the Owner requires a portion of the Land for a public purpose, the
Owner may, in accordance with section 7.4 and on 180 days written notice
to the Permittee, cancel this permit and the rights granted herein with
respect to no more than 5% of the whole of the Land.


7.4
Concurrently with the notice referred to in section 7.3, the Owner will
give the Permittee written notice that the Owner will, at its cost,
relocate the Permittee's works that are materially affected by
cancellation under section 7.3 to a different location on the Land or to
a location on other land immediately adjacent to the Land ("the New
Location"). The New Location must, in the reasonable opinion of the
Permittee, be of sufficient size to accommodate the Permittee's works
and be equally suitable for the purposes of the Permittee. The Owner
will pay for any reasonable costs of moving the Permittee's works to the
New Location. If the Permittee's works cannot be moved to the New
Location, the Owner will pay to the Permittee the reasonable costs of
constructing new works on the New Location. As full compensation for any
costs, expenses or damages which the Permittee may incur in connection
with the relocation, including disruption and loss of business, the
Owner and the Permittee will agree on a lump sum payment and failing
agreement, the matter will be referred to arbitration pursuant to
Article 10. All other terms and conditions of this permit will apply to
the New Location.


7.5
Notwithstanding subsection 5.1 (h), any works or other improvements to
the Land that remain unremoved from the Land upon the termination of
this permit pursuant to section 7.1 or upon the cancellation of this
permit pursuant to section 7.2 shall, at the discretion of the Owner, be
forfeited to and become the property of the Owner.


7.6
If the Owner elects to assume ownership of any above-ground works or
other improvements pursuant to section 7.5, the Owner may remove them
from the Land and the Permittee shall, on demand, compensate the Owner
for all costs incurred by the Owner respecting their removal.


7.7
The rights of the Owner and the obligations of the Permittee under
section 7.5 and section 7.6 shall, to the extent necessary, survive the
expiration or cancellation of this permit.


Article 8 – Notice


8.1
Whenever service of a notice or a document is required under this
permit, the notice or documents shall be in writing and shall be deemed
to have been served if delivered to, or if sent by prepaid registered
mail addressed to, the Owner or the Permittee, as the case may be, at
the addresses specified for each on the first page of this permit, and
where service is by registered mail the notice or document shall be
conclusively deemed to have been served on the eighth day after its
deposit in a Canada Post office at any place in Canada.


8.2
Either party may, by notice in writing to the other, specify another
address for service of notices under this permit and after another
address has been specified under this section, notices shall be mailed
to that address in accordance with this Article.


8.3
Notwithstanding section 8.1, any written notice to be served or given by
the Owner to the Permittee under this permit shall be effectively given
or served by posting the same in a conspicuous place on the Land.


Article 9 – Miscellaneous


9.1
No term, condition, covenant or other provision herein shall be
considered to have been waived by the Owner unless such waiver is
expressed in writing by the Owner. Any such waiver of any term,
condition, covenant or other provision herein shall not be construed as
or constitute a waiver of any further or other breach of the same or any
other term, condition, covenant, or other provision and the consent or
approval of the Owner to any act by the Permittee requiring the consent
or approval of the Owner shall not be considered to waive or render
unnecessary such consents or approvals to any subsequent similar act by
the Permittee.


9.2
No remedy conferred upon or reserved to the Owner is exclusive of any
other remedy herein or provided by law, but such remedy shall be
cumulative and shall be in addition to any other remedy herein or
hereafter existing at law, in equity, or by statute.


9.3
This permit shall not entitle the Permittee to exclusive use or
possession of the Land and the Owner may for any purpose grant to other
persons interests in the Land or rights to enter on, use or occupy the
Land, or may otherwise authorize other persons to enter on, use or
occupy the land, so long as the grant or authorization does not
materially affect the exercise of the Permittee's rights hereunder. The
question of whether a grant materially affects the exercise of the
Permittee's rights hereunder shall be determined by the Owner acting
reasonably.


9.4
The terms and provisions of this permit shall extend to, be binding upon
and enure to the benefit of the Owner and the Permittee and their
successors and permitted assigns.


9.5
The Permittee who conveys or otherwise disposes of the estate in fee
simple to the Appurtenant Property (the "Transferor"):


(a) remains liable for any breach of or non-observance or
non-performance of the covenants, agreements, provisions or conditions
contained herein that occur before that conveyance or other disposition;
but


(b) if the Transferor obtains and delivers to the Owner within 60 days
of the conveyance or other disposition an agreement in the form set out
in Schedule "B" and entitled "Acknowledgement of Assignment and
Assumption", signed by the Transferor and by the Permittee to whom the
estate has been conveyed or otherwise disposed of (the "Transferee"),
the Transferor is not liable for any breaches of or non-observance of or
non-performance of the covenants, agreements, provisions or conditions
contained herein that occur after that delivery.


9.6
Time is of the essence in this agreement.


Article 10 – Dispute Resolution


10.1
In this Article,
"dispute"
means any dispute arising out of or in connection with this permit or in
respect of any defined legal relationship associated with it or derived
from it.


10.2
The parties agree to attempt to resolve all disputes by negotiations
conducted in good faith and to provide timely disclosure of all relevant
facts, information and documents to further those negotiations.


10.3
If a dispute is not settled through direct negotiations either party may
request the British Columbia International Commercial Arbitration Centre
(BCICAC) to appoint a mediator to conduct a mediation under its
mediation rules of procedure.


10.4
If a dispute is not settled within 15 days of the appointment of the
mediator or any further period of time agreed to by the parties, the
dispute shall be referred to and finally resolved by arbitration before
a single arbitrator under the arbitration rules of procedure of the
BCICAC.


10.5
If the BCICAC is unavailable or unable to administer the mediation or
arbitration of a dispute under its rules of procedure, the parties will
select the rules of another institution.


Article 11 – Interpretation


11.1
In this permit, unless the context otherwise requires, the singular
includes the plural and the masculine includes the feminine gender and a
corporation.


11.2
The captions and headings contained in this permit are for convenience
only and are not to be construed as defining or in any way limiting the
scope or intent of the provisions herein.


11.3
If any section of this permit or any part of a section is found to be
illegal or unenforceable, that part and section of this permit shall be
considered separate and severable and the remaining parts or sections,
as the case may be, shall not be affected thereby and shall be
enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.


IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this permit as of the day
and year first above written.





SIGNED by a duly authorized signatory of

)



)


in the presence of:
)



____________________

Name


)

)


____________________

Authorized Signatory




____________________

Address


)

)



____________________
)



)







SIGNED by a duly authorized signatory of

)



)



____________________

Name


)

)


____________________

Authorized Signatory




____________________

Address


)

)



____________________
)



)




SCHEDULE "A"


Legal Description


SCHEDULE "B"

Acknowledgement of Assignment and Assumption

THIS AGREEMENT dated for reference this ____________________ day of
____________________ , ____________________ .

BETWEEN:

NISG̱A'A NATION

(the "Owner")
AND:
(the "Transferor")
AND:
(the "Transferee")

WHEREAS the Transferor has held a permit (the "Permit of Occupation")
granted by the Owner for the occupation of a certain parcel of Nisg̱a'a
Lands (the "Land");


AND WHEREAS the Permit of Occupation is appurtenant to certain property
(the "Appurtenant Property") and passes with the estate in fee simple to
the Appurtenant Property;


AND WHEREAS the Transferor has conveyed or otherwise disposed of to the
Transferee the estate in fee simple to the Appurtenant Property;


NOW THEREFORE THIS AGREEMENT WITNESSES that in consideration of the sums
of $1.00, now paid by each party to each of the others, the receipt of
sufficiency of which each party hereby acknowledges, and in further
consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements herein set out, the
parties covenant and agree as follows:


1.
In this Agreement:


"Appurtenant Property"
means (
legal description
)____________________;

________________________________________ ;


"Land"
means (
description from permit
)____________________

________________________________________ ;


"Permit of Occupation"
means the permit to occupy the Land granted by the Owner on (
effective date of Treaty
) ____________________

________________________________________ , ____________________ to the
holder of British Columbia Conditional Water Licence
____________________ ;


"Permittee"
means the holder of the Permit of Occupation;


"Transfer"
means the conveyance or other disposition by the Transferor to the
Transferee of the estate in fee simple to the Appurtenant Property on (
date of transfer
) ____________________

________________________________________ , ____________________ .


2.
The Transferor hereby acknowledges and agrees that by the Transfer and
from and after the date of the Transfer, the Transferor has absolutely
assigned to the Transferee all of the Transferor's right to occupy the
Land as the Permittee pursuant to the Permit of Occupation, a copy of
which is attached hereto.


3.
The Transferee hereby acknowledges and agrees that by the Transfer and
from and after the date of the Transfer, the Transferee has assumed from
the Transferor all of the obligations of the Permittee pursuant to the
Permit of Occupation and is bound by all of the covenants, agreements,
provisions or conditions contained therein.


4.
The Owner hereby acknowledges and agrees that, by the Transfer and from
and after the date of the Transfer, the Transferee has the right to
occupy the Land as the Permittee pursuant to the Permit of Occupation.


IN WITNESS WHEREOF each of the Owner, the Transferor and the Transferee
has executed this Agreement as of the date and year first above written.





SIGNED by a duly authorized signatory of

)



)


in the presence of:
)



____________________

Name


)

)


____________________

OWNER




____________________

Address


)

)



____________________
)



)







SIGNED by a duly authorized signatory of

)



)


in the presence of:
)



____________________

Name


)

)


____________________

TRANSFEROR




____________________

Address


)

)



____________________
)



)







SIGNED by a duly authorized signatory of

)



)


in the presence of:
)



____________________

Name


)

)


____________________

TRANSFEREE




____________________

Address


)

)



____________________
)



)






Appendix C-2

Document 12



Special Use Permit for Forestry Operations


THIS AGREEMENT made this __________ day of ____________________, 199

BETWEEN:

NISG̱A'A NATION
,


of ____________________

(the "Owner")

AND:
____________________ , of

____________________

("the Permittee")


Whereas the Owner has agreed to grant to the Permittee a permit to enter
on and use that parcel of land (the "Land") located generally in the
vicinity of ____________________ and described in the schedule attached
and entitled "Legal Description";


Now therefore in consideration of the fee to be paid by, and the
covenants of, the Permittee, the parties agree as follows:


Article 1 – Grant of Permit


1.1
The Owner, on the terms set forth herein, hereby grants to the Permittee
a permit to enter on and use the Land for the purpose
of                  .


Article 2 – Duration


2.1
The duration of the permit and the rights herein granted shall be for a
term of five years commencing on the ____________________ day of
____________________ , 199__ (the "Commencement Date") unless cancelled
in accordance with Article 6.


Article 3 – Permit Fee


3.1
On the Commencement Date, and on each annual anniversary of the
Commencement Date over the term of this permit, the Permittee shall pay
to the Owner a permit fee in the amount of $100.


Article 4 – Covenants of the Permittee


4.1
The Permittee covenants with the Owner:


(a) to pay the permit fee due at the address of the Owner set out above
or at such other place as the Owner may specify from time to time by the
giving of notice to the Permittee in accordance with Article 8;


(b) to pay and discharge when due all applicable taxes, levies, charges
and assessments now or hereafter assessed, levied or charged that relate
to the Land or any of the Permittee's improvements thereon (the "Realty
Taxes") that the Permittee is liable to pay;


(c) to observe, abide by and comply with all applicable laws, bylaws,
orders, directions, ordinances and regulations of any competent
government authority in any way affecting the Land and improvements
situate thereon, or their use and occupation;


(d) not to commit or suffer any wilful or voluntary waste, spoil or
destruction on the Land or do or suffer to be done thereon by its
employees, contractors, agents, invitees or anyone for whom the
Permittee is responsible at law anything that may be or become a
nuisance to the Owner or occupiers of adjoining land;


(e) to deliver to the Owner from time to time, upon demand, proof of
insurance provided for in subsection (j), receipts or other evidence of
payment of Realty Taxes, insurance premiums and other monetary
obligations of the Permittee required to be observed by the Permittee
pursuant to this permit;


(f) to indemnify and save the Owner harmless against all losses,
damages, costs and liabilities, including fees of solicitors and other
professional advisors, arising out of:


(i) any breach, violation or non-performance of any covenant, condition
or agreement in this permit by the Permittee, or


(ii) any personal injury, death or property damage, arising out of the
Permittee's use and occupation of the Land


and the Owner may add the amount of such losses, damages, costs and
liabilities to the permit fee and the amount so added shall be payable
to the Owner immediately;


(g) to keep the Land in a safe, clean and sanitary condition
satisfactory to the Owner acting reasonably, and to make safe, clean and
sanitary any portion of the Land or any improvement thereon that the
Owner, acting reasonably, may direct by notice in writing to the
Permittee;


(h) to permit the Owner or its authorized representative to enter upon
the Land at any time to examine its condition;


(i) on the expiration or at the earlier cancellation of this permit:


(i) to quit peaceably and deliver possession of the Land to the Owner,


(ii) to remove from the Land all above-ground buildings, machinery,
plant equipment and apparatus and all other improvements to or things on
the Land erected or placed on the Land by the Permittee, whether before
or after the Commencement Date,


(iii) if reasonably required by the Owner, to cause an independent site
assessment of the Land to be performed by a qualified environmental
consultant acceptable to the Owner, and


(iv) to restore the Land to a safe, clean, sanitary and environmentally
sound condition, including by revegetation where required to prevent
erosion, satisfactory to the Owner, acting reasonably


and to the extent necessary, this covenant shall survive the expiration
or cancellation of this permit;


(j) to effect, and keep in force during the term, insurance protecting
the Owner and the Permittee (without any rights of cross-claim or
subrogation against the Owner) against claims for personal injury,
death, property damage or third party or public liability claims arising
from any accident or occurrence on the Land to an amount not less than
$1,000,000.00; except that the Owner may, in its sole discretion, waive
the requirements of this subsection on the delivery to the Owner of
evidence that the Permittee is self insured;


(k) notwithstanding subsection (j), the Owner may from time to time
notify the Permittee that the amount of insurance posted by the
Permittee pursuant to that subsection be changed and the Permittee
shall, within 60 days of receiving such notice, cause the amount of
insurance posted, pursuant to subsection (j) to be changed to the amount
specified by the Owner, acting reasonably, in the notice and deliver to
the Owner written confirmation of the change, except that when the
Permittee is self-insuring this section shall not apply;


(l) not to interfere with the activities, works or other improvements of
any other person who enters on or uses or occupies the Land under a
subsequent right or interest granted by the Owner, or who is otherwise
authorized by the owner to enter on or use or occupy the Land, in
accordance with section 9.3;


(m) to erect such fences or gates on the Land that the Owner, acting
reasonably, may direct by notice in writing to the Permittee;


(n) to undertake fire prevention and fire suppression measures as if the
Land were within the Permittee's "area of operation" and the activities
permitted herein were "industrial activities" under the
Forest Practices Code of British Columbia Act,
RSBC 1996;


(o) not to deposit or permit to be deposited on the Land any slash or
refuse, unless the Permittee has first obtained from the Owner a permit
specifying the conditions of such deposit;


(p) before cutting any timber, erecting any building or other structure,
or making any other improvement to the Land, to submit to the Owner a
plan showing the location of the cutting or the location and
specifications of the building, structure or other improvement proposed
for the Land;

(q) not to:
(i) cut any timber on the Land,

(ii) erect any building or other improvement on the Land, or


(iii) sell, lease or otherwise dispose of, except bona fide by way of
security, any building or other improvement on the Land

without the prior written consent of the Owner.

Article 5 – Assignment


5.1
The Permittee shall not assign this permit or grant a subpermit of any
part of the Land without the prior written consent of the Owner.


Article 6 – Cancellation


6.1
If the Permittee fails to observe or perform any term contained herein,
and such failure continues for a period of 60 days after the giving of
written notice by the Owner to the Permittee of the nature of the
failure, the Owner may cancel this permit.


6.2
If this permit is taken in execution or attachment by any person or the
Permittee commits an act of bankruptcy, becomes insolvent, is petitioned
into bankruptcy or voluntarily enters into an arrangement with its
creditors, the Owner may, on 90 days written notice to the Permittee,
cancel this permit and the rights herein granted.


6.3
If the Permittee ceases to use the Land for the purposes permitted
herein and the Permittee does not recommence its use of the Land within
180 days of receipt of written notice from the Owner, the Owner may
immediately cancel this permit and the rights herein granted.


6.4
The Permittee may deliver a written notice to the Owner cancelling this
permit and thereafter the permit and the rights herein granted will
terminate 180 days after the date of receipt by the Owner of such
written notice.


6.5
Notwithstanding subsection 4.1 (i), any building, machinery, plant
equipment, apparatus, or other improvements to the Land that remain
unremoved from the Land:


(a) upon the cancellation of this permit pursuant to section 6.1 or
section 6.4; or


(b) thirty days after the expiration of this permit or the cancellation
of this permit pursuant to section 6.2 or section 6.3;


shall, at the discretion of the Owner, be forfeited to and become the
property of the Owner.


6.6
If the Owner elects to assume ownership of any above-ground building,
machinery, plant equipment, apparatus or other improvements to the Land
pursuant to section 6.5, the Owner may remove them from the land and the
Permittee shall, on demand, compensate the Owner for all costs incurred
by the Owner respecting their removal.


6.7
The rights of the Owner and the obligations of the Permittee under
section 6.5 and section 6.6 shall, to the extent necessary, survive the
expiration or cancellation of this permit.


Article 7 – Security


7.1
The security in the sum of $      and all
rights, privileges, benefits and interests accruing thereto delivered by
the Permittee to the Owner (herein called the "Security") to guarantee
the performance of the Permittee's obligations under this permit shall
be maintained in effect until such time as the Owner certifies in
writing that such obligations have been fully performed. The Owner may,
in its sole discretion, waive the requirements of this section.


7.2
In the event the Permittee defaults in the performance of any of its
obligations hereunder, the Owner may, in its sole discretion, sell, call
in and convert the Security, or any part of it, and such Security shall
be deemed to have been absolutely forfeited to the Owner.


7.3
The rights of the Owner under this Article shall be deemed to continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding the expiration or earlier
cancellation of this permit.


7.4
Notwithstanding any amount of Security stated to be required under
section 7.1 the Owner may, acting reasonably, from time to time by
notice to the Permittee, demand the amount to be changed to that
specified in a notice and the Permittee shall, within 60 days of such
notice, change the Security to that specified and provide the Owner with
evidence of the change, except that while Security is waived under
section 7.1, this section shall not apply.


Article 8 – Notice


8.1
Whenever service of a notice or a document is required under this
permit, the notice or documents shall be in writing and shall be deemed
to have been served if delivered to, or if sent by prepaid registered
mail addressed to, the Owner or the Permittee, as the case may be, at
the addresses specified for each on the first page of this permit, and
where service is by registered mail the notice or document shall be
conclusively deemed to have been served on the eighth day after its
deposit in a Canada Post office at any place in Canada. If there is a
disruption in mail service caused by labour dispute, civil unrest or
other events beyond the control of the parties, between mailing and
actual receipt of such notice, the party sending such notice will
re-send by courier, fax or other electronic means and such notice will
only be effective if actually received.


8.2
Either party may, by notice in writing to the other, specify another
address for service of notices under this permit and after another
address has been specified under this section, notices shall be mailed
to that address in accordance with this Article.


Article 9 – Miscellaneous


9.1
No term, condition, covenant or other provision herein shall be
considered to have been waived by the Owner unless such waiver is
expressed in writing by the Owner. Any such waiver of any term,
condition, covenant or other provision herein shall not be construed as
or constitute a waiver of any further or other breach of the same or any
other term, condition, covenant, or other provision and the consent or
approval of the Owner to any act by the Permittee requiring the consent
or approval of the Owner shall not be considered to waive or render
unnecessary such consents or approvals to any subsequent similar act by
the Permittee.


9.2
No remedy conferred upon or reserved to the Owner is exclusive of any
other remedy herein or provided by law, but such remedy shall be
cumulative and shall be in addition to any other remedy herein or
hereafter existing at law, in equity, or by statute.


9.3
This permit shall not entitle the Permittee to exclusive possession of
the Land and the Owner may for any purpose grant to others interests in
the Land or rights to enter on or use or occupy the Land, or may
otherwise authorize other persons to enter on or use or occupy the Land,
so long as the grant or authorization does not materially affect the
exercise of the Permittee's rights hereunder. The question of whether a
grant materially affects the exercise of the Permittee's rights
hereunder shall be determined by the Owner acting reasonably.


9.4
The terms and provisions of this permit shall extend to, be binding upon
and enure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their successors and
permitted assigns.


9.5
Time is of the essence in this agreement.


Article 10 – Dispute Resolution


10.1
In this Article,
"dispute"
means any dispute arising out of or in connection with this license or
in respect of any defined legal relationship associated with it or
derived from it.


10.2
The parties agree to attempt to resolve all disputes by negotiations
conducted in good faith and to provide timely disclosure of all relevant
facts, information and documents to further those negotiations.


10.3
If a dispute is not settled through direct negotiations either party may
request the British Columbia International Commercial Arbitration Centre
(BCICAC) to appoint a mediator to conduct a mediation under its
mediation rules of procedure.


10.4
If a dispute is not settled within 15 days of the appointment of the
mediator or any further period of time agreed to by the parties, the
dispute shall be referred to and finally resolved by arbitration before
a single arbitrator under the arbitration rules of procedure of the
BCICAC.


10.5
If the BCICAC is unavailable or unable to administer the mediation or
arbitration of a dispute under its rules of procedure, the parties will
select the rules of another institution.


Article 11 – Interpretation


11.1
In this permit, unless the context otherwise requires, the singular
includes the plural and the masculine includes the feminine gender and a
corporation.


11.2
The captions and headings contained in this permit are for convenience
only and are not to be construed as defining or in any way limiting the
scope or intent of the provisions herein.


11.3
If any section of this permit or any part of a section is found to be
illegal or unenforceable, that part or section, as the case may be,
shall be considered separate and severable and the remaining parts and
sections of this permit, shall not be affected thereby and shall be
enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.


IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this permit as of the day
and year first above written.





SIGNED by a duly authorized signatory of

)



)


in the presence of:
)



____________________

Name


)

)


____________________

Authorized Signatory




____________________

Address


)

)



____________________
)



)







SIGNED by a duly authorized signatory of

)



)


in the presence of:
)



____________________

Name


)

)


____________________

Authorized Signatory




____________________

Address


)

)



____________________
)



)




LEGAL DESCRIPTION SCHEDULE

1. Legal Description
2. Sketch Plan



Appendix C-2

Document 13



Leases


Leases on file at the Department of Indian Affairs and

Northern Development, British Columbia Regional Office

and
at the Office of The Nisg̱a'a Tribal Council



Appendix C-3

APPLICABLE FORMS OF DOCUMENT FOR PUBLIC

UTILITY TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION

FACILITIES IN PART 2 OF APPENDIX C-1






Document 1



Grant of Right of Way and Licence for Public Utility Works to
British Columbia Hydro and Power Authority (Hydro) and





Document 2



Grant of Right of Way and Licence for Telecommunications to BC
TEL.








Appendix C-3

Document 1




Grant of Right of Way and Licence for Public Utility Works

To

British Columbia Hydro and Power Authority



This Agreement is dated ____________________ , ____________________

BETWEEN:

NISG̱A'A NATION

[insert address]
(the "Nisg̱a'a Nation")
AND:

BRITISH COLUMBIA HYDRO AND POWER AUTHORITY,

continued under the
Hydro and Power Authority Act,

RSBC 1996, c. 212

[insert address]
("Hydro")

WHEREAS:


A.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation, Canada and British Columbia have entered into the
Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement.


B.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation wishes to grant to Hydro rights on Nisg̱a'a Lands for
Hydro Works existing on Nisg̱a'a Lands on the effective date.


Therefore for good and valuable consideration the Nisg̱a'a Nation and
Hydro agree as follows:


1. Definitions


"BC TEL"
means BC TEL, and its successors and assigns.


"Final Agreement"
means the Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement between the Nisg̱a'a Nation, Canada and
British Columbia.


"Hydro Purposes"
means the transmission and distribution of electric energy and
telecommunications.


"Hydro Works"
means poles, towers, antennae (except for monopole free standing
antennae), anchors, guy wires, brackets, cross arms, insulators,
transformers, overhead and underground conductors, wires, lines and
cables, underground conduits and pipes, access nodes, all ancillary
appliances and fittings, reasonably required associated protective
installations and related works such as fencing for safety or security,
devices and identifying colours for aircraft warning, and utility
services for the operation of any of the foregoing.


"Hydro Right of Way Area"
means those portions of Nisg̱a'a Lands as described in Schedule A
attached to this Agreement.


"Licensed Hydro Works"
means, collectively, any Hydro Works, and any access roads within the
Vegetation Management Area, that, on the effective date, are located on
Nisg̱a'a Lands outside of:

(a) a Crown road right of way area;
(b) a Hydro Right of Way Area;

(c) a right of way area granted to BC TEL on which Hydro is BC TEL's
licensee; or


(d) an area in respect of which, on the effective date, the Nisg̱a'a
Nation grants Hydro rights under a separate instrument.


"Vegetation Management Area"
means the Hydro Right of Way Area together with the area 10 metres on
both sides of the Hydro Right of Way Area.


2. Relationship to Final Agreement


This Agreement is made under the Final Agreement, and defined terms in
the Final Agreement will have the same meaning in this Agreement.


3. Rights on Hydro Right of Way Area


The Nisg̱a'a Nation grants to Hydro, and its employees, representatives,
agents, contractors, licensees and assignees, the full, free and
uninterrupted right, liberty and right of way, for Hydro Purposes, as
follows:


(a) to construct, excavate for, erect, string, or otherwise install,
operate, maintain, repair, alter, upgrade, remove and replace Hydro
Works over, upon and under the Hydro Right of Way Area;


(b) to trim or remove all or any trees, growth or vegetation now or
hereafter on the Vegetation Management Area that may in the reasonable
opinion of Hydro create a hazard or interfere with the Hydro Works or
the carrying out of any of the Hydro Purposes, except that Hydro shall
take all reasonable steps, including where appropriate planting of
suitable replacement vegetation, to avoid erosion or other damage;


(c) to conduct vegetation management upon the Vegetation Management
Area, such as the planting of vegetation compatible with use for Hydro
Purposes, and the application of herbicides and pesticides provided
that:


(i) Hydro will not conduct any aerial application of herbicides or
pesticides on the Hydro Right of Way Area or other Nisg̱a'a Lands; and


(ii) Hydro will obtain all permits and approvals as required by
authorities having jurisdiction, including any such permits or approvals
required by the Nisg̱a'a Nation, for the use of any herbicides or
pesticides;


(d) to clear the Hydro Right of Way Area and keep it cleared of all or
any part of any obstructions that may in the reasonable opinion of Hydro
create a hazard or interfere with the Hydro Works or the carrying out of
any of the Hydro Purposes;


(e) to install, maintain and use gates in all fences constructed by
others which are now or hereafter shall be on the Hydro Right of Way
Area and in fences across roads in the Vegetation Management Area;


(f) to ground any structures, installation or things, by whomsoever
owned, from time to time situated anywhere on the Hydro Right of Way
Area or adjacent Nisg̱a'a Lands where, in the reasonable opinion of
Hydro, such grounding will eliminate or reduce hazard to persons;


(g) to pass and repass over the Hydro Right of Way Area with or without
equipment, machinery and materials as reasonably required by Hydro, and
to construct, maintain, repair, replace and use trails, roads and
bridges on the Hydro Right of Way Area as reasonably required to obtain
access to the Hydro Works; and


(h) to generally do all acts or things necessary in connection with the
foregoing.


4. Non Exclusive Use


This Agreement will not entitle Hydro to exclusive possession of the
Hydro Right of Way Area or other parts of the Nisg̱a'a Lands and the
Nisg̱a'a Nation reserves the right to grant other dispositions of the
Vegetation Management Area, including the Hydro Right of Way Area, so
long as the grant does not materially affect the exercise of Hydro's
rights under this Agreement.


5. BC TEL


Hydro will cooperate and enter into agreements with BC TEL in the same
manner as Hydro and BC TEL cooperate and enter into agreements elsewhere
in British Columbia, to share the use of poles, ducts and other works.



6. Licence For Hydro Works Located Outside Rights of Way



The Nisg̱a'a Nation grants to Hydro, and its employees, representatives,
agents, contractors, licensees and assignees, as of the effective date,
a licence for all Licensed Hydro Works to use and occupy Nisg̱a'a Lands
on the following terms:


(a) the licence is irrevocable so long as Hydro requires the use of the
Licensed Hydro Works for Hydro Purposes, unless the Licensed Hydro Works
are included within a Crown road right of way area or Hydro Right of Way
Area under this paragraph;


(b) for the Licensed Hydro Works, Hydro holds the same rights,
privileges and obligations, including all indemnity obligations, as
apply to Hydro for the use of the Hydro Right of Way Area under this
Agreement, and including the right of reasonable access onto the Nisg̱a'a
Lands for the purpose of gaining access to the Licensed Hydro Works;


(c) if at any time in the course of maintenance or operations Hydro
replaces or makes significant repairs to Licensed Hydro Works which are
adjacent to a Crown road right of way area or a Hydro Right of Way Area
then, upon written notice from the Nisg̱a'a Nation and provided the
relocation does not result in significant increased costs, and for a
Crown road right of way area if the relocation is acceptable to British
Columbia, Hydro will relocate the Licensed Hydro Works on to the
adjacent right of way area, and the licence for those Licensed Hydro
Works will be terminated;


(d) the Nisg̱a'a Nation may at any time at no cost to Hydro require Hydro
to enter into an agreement to extend the Hydro Right of Way Area so as
to incorporate within the Hydro Right of Way Area any Licensed Hydro
Works designated by the Nisg̱a'a Nation and upon the appropriate
extension of the Hydro Right of Way Area the licence for those Licensed
Hydro Works will be terminated;


(e) the Nisg̱a'a Nation may at any time require Hydro to relocate
Licensed Hydro Works designated by the Nisg̱a'a Nation to another
location on Nisg̱a'a Lands, including on to an adjacent Crown road right
of way area if acceptable to British Columbia, or to a Hydro Right of
Way Area and in that event:


(i) if the new location is reasonably suitable for use for Hydro Works
considering construction, maintenance and operation and costs, Hydro
will proceed with the relocation;


(ii) the Nisg̱a'a Nation will give reasonable notice to permit design,
planning and construction of the Hydro Works to be relocated;


(iii) the Nisg̱a'a Nation will pay all reasonable costs, including costs
of design, supervision and construction; and


(iv) upon relocation, this licence is extended to the relocated Hydro
Works, except if the relocated Hydro Works are located on a Crown road
right of way area or a Hydro Right of Way Area, then the license for
those Hydro Works will be terminated.


7. Duration


The rights, liberties and rights of way granted under this Agreement are
for so long as required and will terminate, without compensation to
Hydro, when Hydro no longer requires the Hydro Right of Way Area, and:


(a) Hydro gives 90 days written notice to the Nisg̱a'a Nation; or


(b) the Nisg̱a'a Nation gives 90 days written notice to Hydro.


8. Work Plans For Hydro Works


Except in an emergency, Hydro will provide to the Nisg̱a'a Nation a
written work plan describing proposed work on or related to a Hydro
Right of Way Area prior to undertaking any of the following work:


(a) installation of any new transmission or distribution lines;


(b) relocation of any transmission or distribution lines;


(c) trimming or removal of any trees, growth or vegetation on or
adjacent to a Hydro Right of Way Area, including the Vegetation
Management Area;


(d) constructing any new trails, roads or bridges on the Hydro Right of
Way Area.


Hydro will provide the work plan in time to afford the Nisg̱a'a Nation
the opportunity to comment, and Hydro will use reasonable efforts to
accommodate any suggestions or requests presented by the Nisg̱a'a Nation
provided they do not result in significant increased costs.


9. Insurance and Security


If British Columbia requires Hydro to carry insurance, to provide
security, or both, in relation to rights of way granted to Hydro by
British Columbia, then on request of the Nisg̱a'a Nation, Hydro will
obtain insurance, security, or both, for the benefit of the Nisg̱a'a
Nation on terms substantially the same as required by British Columbia.


10. Access to Hydro Rights of Way


If for any reason Hydro is unable to obtain reasonable access to any
Hydro Works from the Hydro Right of Way Area, a Crown road, a Nisg̱a'a
road or a Hydro private access right of way, then the Nisg̱a'a Nation
will, where land access is reasonably practicable, on application from
Hydro, grant Hydro the right to cross Nisg̱a'a Lands to provide Hydro
access on terms substantially the same as contained in Document 3 of
Appendix C4 to the Final Agreement.


11. Hazardous Trees Adjacent to Hydro Right of Way


Hydro may remove any tree located on Nisg̱a'a Lands which by falling or
otherwise may endanger any Hydro Works, but, except in an emergency,
will give the Nisg̱a'a Nation prior written notice.


12. Protection of the Environment


Hydro will undertake activities permitted under this Agreement having
regard for the impact on the environment, and will take prudent measures
to minimize damage or disruption to the environment.


13. Replacement Right of Way


If a material change occurs to lands which for any reason makes the
continued use of any portion of the Hydro Right of Way Area unsuitable
for the Hydro Purposes, then the Nisg̱a'a Nation will, without charge,
grant a replacement right of way to Hydro for construction of the
replacement Hydro Works, as follows:


(a) Hydro will, before undertaking any work, deliver a work plan to the
Nisg̱a'a Nation indicating the location of the contemplated replacement
right of way area, for approval by the Nisg̱a'a Nation which approval
will not be unreasonably withheld;


(b) Hydro will take into account the effect of the replacement right of
way area on adjacent Nisg̱a'a Lands, and any unique aspects of these
lands, and the Nisg̱a'a Nation will take into account the cost
efficiencies of the location selected by Hydro for a replacement right
of way area in relation to alternative locations;


(c) the replacement right of way agreement will be on the same terms and
conditions as this Agreement, and the Nisg̱a'a Nation will use its best
efforts to ensure that the replacement right of way has the same
priority over other charges and encumbrances as this Agreement;


(d) Hydro will execute a release of this Agreement in relation to the
portions of the abandoned Hydro Right of Way Area.


Despite any provision of this paragraph, in an emergency Hydro may,
without approval from the Nisg̱a'a Nation, enter on to Nisg̱a'a Lands to
undertake all work and take all steps as are reasonably required to be
taken immediately in order to restore electrical and telecommunication
services, or to ensure safety of persons and property that may be at
risk from Hydro Works. Hydro will give notice as soon as reasonably
possible to the Nisg̱a'a Nation of any emergency entry.



14. Entry on Nisg̱a'a Lands outside the Hydro Right of Way Area



Hydro, and its employees, representatives, agents, contractors,
licensees and assignees, may enter onto Nisg̱a'a Lands outside the Hydro
Right of Way Area for the purpose of undertaking works to protect Hydro
Works, or to protect persons and property that may be at risk from Hydro
Works, as follows:


(a) Hydro will before commencing any work deliver a written work plan
describing the effect and extent of the proposed work on Nisg̱a'a Lands
to the Nisg̱a'a Nation for approval;


(b) the Nisg̱a'a Nation will not unreasonably withhold approval of the
work plan, considering the effect of the proposed work, including the
cost of the proposed works compared to the cost of alternate solutions,
the extent of the risk of not undertaking the work, and the impact on
the Nisg̱a'a Lands. If Hydro and the Nisg̱a'a Nation cannot agree on a
work plan requested by Hydro within 30 days of receipt by the Nisg̱a'a
Nation of the proposed work plan then either party may refer the
disagreement to dispute resolution under Paragraph 21 of this Agreement;


(c) Hydro will minimize damage to and time spent on Nisg̱a'a Lands;


(d) Hydro will pay fair compensation, as defined in the Final Agreement,
for any interference with or damage to adjacent Nisg̱a'a Lands.


Notwithstanding other provisions of this paragraph or this Agreement, in
an emergency Hydro may undertake works and take steps on Nisg̱a'a Lands
as are reasonably required to be taken immediately in order to protect
Hydro Works, or to protect persons and property that may be at risk from
Hydro Works, and in that event Hydro will as soon as reasonably possible
notify the Nisg̱a'a Nation in writing.



15. Entry on Nisg̱a'a Lands outside the Crown roads right of way area



The parties' rights and obligations as set out in paragraph 14 apply
with respect to Hydro Works located on a Crown roads right of way area.


16. Relocation of Hydro Works


If the Nisg̱a'a Nation requires a portion of a Hydro Right of Way Area
for other purposes, then upon request by the Nisg̱a'a Nation Hydro will
relocate any Hydro Right of Way Area including the related Hydro Works,
to a new location as follows:


(a) the relocation will proceed only if the new location is reasonably
suitable for use for Hydro Works considering construction, maintenance
and operation and costs; and


(b) the Nisg̱a'a Nation will give reasonable notice to permit design,
planning and construction of the Hydro Works to be relocated; and


(c) the Nisg̱a'a Nation will pay all reasonable costs, including costs of
design, supervision and construction.


The Nisg̱a'a Nation will extend the Hydro Right of Way Area as reasonably
required, so that the extended Hydro Right of Way Area has similar
priority over other charges and encumbrances as the original. When a
portion of a Hydro Right of Way Area is relocated then the Hydro Right
of Way Area for the portion that is abandoned will be terminated.


17. Indemnity


Hydro will indemnify and save harmless the Nisg̱a'a Nation from and
against all losses, damages, costs, liabilities, claims, expenses, and
suits, including fees of solicitors and other professional advisors,
arising out of:


(a) any breach, violation or non-performance by Hydro of any of Hydro's
covenants, conditions or obligations under this Agreement; and


(b) any personal injury, death, or property damage, including
environmental damage, occurring on or to Nisg̱a'a Lands arising from
Hydro's use or occupation of Nisg̱a'a Lands under this Agreement,


but not for any claims based on nuisance or the rule in
Rylands v Fletcher
unless Hydro was negligent.


18. Covenants of Hydro

Hydro covenants with the Nisg̱a'a Nation:

(a) to pay compensation to the Nisg̱a'a Nation for any damage to
buildings, crops (except for trees in the Vegetation Management Area),
livestock, drains, ditches, culverts, fences, trails, bridges, roads and
fruit, nut or ornamental trees caused by Hydro;


(b) despite subparagraph (a), to pay compensation to its owner, in
accordance with generally accepted principles of timber valuation, for
all merchantable timber cut or damaged by Hydro on Nisg̱a'a Lands on or
adjacent to the Hydro Right of Way Area, and the parties agree that on
payment, title to any timber cut on the Nisg̱a'a Lands under this
Agreement vests in Hydro;


(c) to pay and discharge when due all applicable taxes, levies, charges
and assessments now or hereafter assessed, levied or charged to the
account of Hydro which relate to the Hydro Right of Way Area and which
Hydro is liable to pay;


(d) to keep the Hydro Right of Way Area, and any Hydro Works, in a safe,
clean and sanitary condition to the extent the condition relates to
Hydro's use or occupation of the Hydro Right of Way Area, and on written
notice from the Nisg̱a'a Nation, to make safe, clean and sanitary any
portion of the Hydro Right of Way Area, or the Hydro Works that
contravene the provisions of this covenant, provided that Hydro has no
obligation to keep the Hydro Right of Way roads or access roads,
suitable for use by anyone except Hydro;


(e) not to disturb or interfere with any survey monuments, bars or iron
pins located on the Nisg̱a'a Lands including the Hydro Right of Way Area;


(f) not to bury debris or rubbish of any kind on Nisg̱a'a Lands in
excavations or backfill, and to remove shoring and similar temporary
structures as backfilling proceeds;


(g) to bury and maintain all underground works as may be required so as
not to unduly interfere with the drainage of the Nisg̱a'a Lands;


(h) not to commit or suffer any wilful or voluntary waste, spoil or
destruction on the Hydro Right of Way Area, or anything that may be or
become a nuisance or annoyance to the owners of the Nisg̱a'a Lands,
except to the extent necessary to carry out any of the Hydro Purposes;


(i) to observe, abide by and comply with all applicable laws, bylaws,
orders, directions, ordinances and regulations of any competent
governmental authority which relate to the Hydro Right of Way Area;


(j) to permit the Nisg̱a'a Nation to enter upon the Hydro Right of Way
Area at any time to examine its condition;


(k) if for any reason this Agreement terminates with respect to a
portion of the Hydro Right of Way Area, to:


(i) quit peaceably that portion of the Hydro Right of Way Area;


(ii) decommission any Hydro roads and restore the surface of that
portion of the Hydro Right of Way Area to a condition to which similar
lands are typically restored in the Province of British Columbia, unless
otherwise agreed to in writing by the Nisg̱a'a Nation and Hydro at the
time of restoration;


(iii) remove all above ground Hydro Works from that portion of the Hydro
Right of Way Area within a reasonable period of time and in any event
within 2 years, and any Hydro Works remaining on that portion of the
Hydro Right of Way Area will be absolutely forfeited to and become the
property of the Nisg̱a'a Nation. If the Nisg̱a'a Nation removes any
remaining above ground Hydro Works within 4 years, Hydro will, on demand
by the Nisg̱a'a Nation, reimburse the Nisg̱a'a Nation for all reasonable
costs of removal; and


(iv) remain liable for any environmental damage to the Nisg̱a'a Lands
arising from any below ground Hydro Works that remain on or in that
portion of the Hydro Right of Way Area after termination, except that if
the Nisg̱a'a Nation uses or authorizes the use of the remaining below
ground Hydro Works for any purpose then Hydro will not be liable for any
environmental damage caused by the Nisg̱a'a Nation use, or authorized
use; and to the extent necessary, this covenant will survive the
termination of this Agreement; and


(l) if Hydro, or its employees, representatives, agents, contractors,
licensees or assignees, discover any archaeological material on the
Hydro Right of Way Area, to take all reasonable steps and precautions to
minimize disturbance of that material, and to immediately notify the
Nisg̱a'a Nation.


19. Covenants of the Nisg̱a'a Nation

The Nisg̱a'a Nation covenants with Hydro:

(a) not to use or authorize the use of the portions of the Hydro Right
of Way Area designated by Hydro, acting reasonably, as "non-parking
areas" for the regular or organized parking of vehicles, provided that
nothing in this paragraph is intended to prevent safe temporary parking
of vehicles;


(b) not to park or authorize to be parked on the Hydro Right of Way Area
any vehicle or equipment exceeding 25 feet in length under any conductor
of 500 kV or higher voltage, unless such vehicle is properly
grounded;


(c) not to use or authorize the use of the Hydro Right of Way Area for
fuelling any vehicle or equipment;


(d) not to use or authorize the use of the Hydro Right of Way Area for
any purpose, including the construction of any improvements, that in the
reasonable opinion of Hydro would be unsafe or would interfere with
Hydro's use of the Hydro Right of Way Area;


(e) not to carry out blasting or aerial logging operations on or
immediately adjacent to the Hydro Right of Way Area without the prior
written permission from Hydro, which permission will not be unreasonably
withheld or delayed; and


(f) not to intentionally do or authorize any act or thing that injures
or endangers the Hydro Works.


20. Licence


Hydro will not licence the use of the Hydro Right of Way Area, in whole
or in part, without the prior written consent of the Nisg̱a'a Nation
provided that:


(a) Hydro may grant a licence to BC Tel for the use of the Hydro Right
of Way Area without the consent of the Nisg̱a'a Nation;


(b) the Nisg̱a'a Nation may attach conditions to its consent to any
licence, including the provision of insurance and security, in a form
and amount acceptable to the Nisg̱a'a Nation; and


(c) no licence will act as a release of any of Hydro's obligations as
set out in this Agreement.


21. Disputes


Any dispute arising out of or in connection with this Agreement will be
resolved as follows:


(a) the parties will attempt to resolve disputes by good faith
negotiations, including timely disclosure of all relevant facts,
information and documents;


(b) either party may, at any time, by written notice request that the
dispute be referred to mediation, conducted by a mediator, knowledgeable
about the matters in dispute;


(c) if the dispute is not resolved within 30 days of the notice to
mediate under subparagraph (b) then, on the agreement of both parties,
the dispute may be referred to a single arbitrator for final resolution.
If the parties do not agree to arbitration then either party may refer
the matter to a court of competent jurisdiction;


except that it is not incompatible with this paragraph for a party to
apply to a court of competent jurisdiction at any time for interim or
conservatory relief and for the court to grant that relief.


22. Notice


If notice is required or permitted under this Agreement, the notice:

(a) must be in writing;

(b) must be delivered to the address set out above, or other address as
specified in writing by a party;


(c) may be given in one or more of the following ways:


(i) delivered personally or by courier, and it will be deemed received
on the next business day;


(ii) delivered by fax, and it will be deemed received on the next
business day; or


(iii) mailed by pre-paid post in Canada, and it will be deemed received
on the eighth business day following.


23. Runs With the Land


This Agreement runs with and binds Nisg̱a'a Lands, to the extent
reasonably necessary to give full force and effect to this Agreement.


24. Waiver and Consent


A breach of any term, condition, covenant or other provision of this
Agreement may only be waived in writing, and any waiver will not be
construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach. Consent to or approval
of any act, where consent or approval is required under this Agreement,
will not be construed as consent to or approval of any subsequent act.


25. Remedies


No remedy set out in this Agreement is exclusive of any other remedy
provided by law, but will be in addition to any other remedy existing at
law, in equity, or by statute.


26. Successors and Assigns


The terms and provisions of this Agreement will extend to, be binding
upon and enure to the benefit of the parties and their successors and
assigns.


27. Interpretation

In this Agreement:

(a) all attached schedules form an integral part of this Agreement;


(b) unless the context otherwise requires, the singular includes the
plural and the masculine include the feminine gender, body politic and a
corporation;


(c) the headings are for convenience only and are not to be construed as
defining or in any way limiting the scope or intent of this Agreement;


(d) a reference to an enactment of British Columbia or of Canada will be
deemed to include a reference to any subsequent amendments or
replacements; and


(e) if any provision is determined by a court or arbitrator of competent
jurisdiction to be illegal or unenforceable, that provision will be
considered separate and severable, and the legality or enforceability of
the remaining provisions will not be affected by that determination.


IN WITNESS THEREOF the parties have duly executed this Agreement, as of
the date first referred to above.


NISG̱A'A NATION

Per:______________________________
Per:______________________________

BRITISH COLUMBIA HYDRO AND POWER AUTHORITY

Per:______________________________
Per:______________________________

SCHEDULE A – DESCRIPTION OF HYDRO RIGHT OF WAY AREA




Appendix C-3

Document 2




Grant of Right of Way and Licence for

Telecommunications to

BC TEL



This Agreement is dated ______________________________ ,
____________________

BETWEEN:

NISG̱A'A NATION

[insert address]
(the "Nisg̱a'a Nation")
AND:

BC TEL
, a corporation under the laws of Canada

[insert address]
("BC TEL")

WHEREAS:


A.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation, Canada and British Columbia have entered into the
Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement.


B.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation wishes to grant to BC TEL rights on Nisg̱a'a Lands for
BC TEL Works existing on Nisg̱a'a Lands on the effective date.


Therefore for good and valuable consideration the Nisg̱a'a Nation and BC
TEL agree as follows:


1. Definitions


"Final Agreement"
means the Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement between the Nisg̱a'a Nation, Canada and
British Columbia.


"BC TEL Purposes"
means telecommunications.


"BC TEL Works"
means poles, towers, antennae (except for monopole free standing
antennae), anchors, guy wires, brackets, cross arms, insulators,
transformers, overhead and underground conductors, wires, lines and
cables, underground conduits and pipes, access nodes, all ancillary
appliances and fittings, reasonably required associated protective
installations and related works such as fencing for safety or security,
devices and identifying colours for aircraft warning, and utility
services for the operation of any of the foregoing.


"BC TEL Right of Way Area"
means those portions of Nisg̱a'a Lands as described in Schedule A
attached to this Agreement.


"Hydro"
means British Columbia Hydro And Power Authority, and its successors and
assigns.


"Licensed BC TEL Works"
means, collectively, any BC TEL Works, and any access roads within the
BC TEL Right of Way Area, that, on the effective date, are located on
Nisg̱a'a Lands outside of:

(a) a Crown road right of way area;
(b) a BC TEL Right of Way Area,; or

(c) a right of way area granted to Hydro on which BC TEL is Hydro's
licensee;


(d) an area in respect of which, on the effective date, the Nisg̱a'a
Nation grants BCTEL rights under a separate instrument.


2. Relationship to Final Agreement


This Agreement is made under the Final Agreement, and defined terms in
the Final Agreement will have the same meaning in this Agreement.


3. Rights on BC TEL Right of Way Area


The Nisg̱a'a Nation grants to BC TEL, and its employees, representatives,
agents, contractors, licensees and assignees, the full, free and
uninterrupted right, liberty and right of way, for BC TEL Purposes, as
follows:


(a) to construct, excavate for, erect, string, or otherwise install,
operate, maintain, repair, alter, upgrade, remove and replace BC TEL
Works over, upon and under the BC TEL Right of Way Area;


(b) to trim or remove all or any trees, growth or vegetation now or
hereafter on the BC TEL Right of Way Area that may in the reasonable
opinion of BC TEL create a hazard or interfere with the BC TEL Works or
the carrying out of any of the BC TEL Purposes, except that BC TEL shall
take all reasonable steps, including where appropriate planting of
suitable replacement vegetation, to avoid erosion or other damage;


(c) to conduct vegetation management upon the BC TEL Right of Way Area,
such as the planting of vegetation compatible with use for BC TEL
Purposes, and the application of herbicides and pesticides provided
that:


(i) BC TEL will not conduct any aerial application of herbicides or
pesticides on the BC TEL Right of Way Area or other Nisg̱a'a Lands; and


(ii) BC TEL will obtain all permits and approvals as required by
authorities having jurisdiction, including any such permits or approvals
required by the Nisg̱a'a Nation, for the use of any herbicides or
pesticides;


(d) to clear the BC TEL Right of Way Area and keep it cleared of all or
any part of any obstructions that may in the reasonable opinion of BC
TEL create a hazard or interfere with the BC TEL Works or the carrying
out of any of the BC TEL Purposes;


(e) to install, maintain and use gates in all fences constructed by
others which are now or hereafter shall be on the BC TEL Right of Way
Area;


(f) to pass and repass over the BC TEL Right of Way Area with or without
equipment, machinery and materials as reasonably required by BC TEL, and
to construct, maintain, repair, replace and use trails, roads and
bridges on the BC TEL Right of Way Area as reasonably required to obtain
access to the BC TEL Works; and to generally do all acts or things
necessary in connection with the foregoing.


4. Non Exclusive Use


This Agreement will not entitle BC TEL to exclusive possession of the BC
TEL Right of Way Area or other parts of the Nisg̱a'a Lands and the
Nisg̱a'a Nation reserves the right to grant other dispositions of the BC
TEL Right of Way Area so long as the grant does not materially affect
the exercise of BC TEL's rights under this Agreement.


5. Hydro


BC TEL will cooperate and enter into agreements with Hydro in the same
manner as Hydro and BC TEL cooperate and enter into agreements elsewhere
in British Columbia, to share the use of poles, ducts and other works.



6. Licence For BC TEL Works Located Outside Rights of Way



The Nisg̱a'a Nation grants to BC TEL, and its employees, representatives,
agents, contractors, licensees and assignees, as of the effective date,
a licence for all Licensed BC TEL Works to use and occupy Nisg̱a'a Lands
on the following terms:


(a) the licence is irrevocable so long as BC TEL requires the use of the
Licensed BC TEL Works for BC TEL Purposes, unless the Licensed
BC TEL Works are included within a Crown road right of way area or
BC TEL Right of Way Area under this paragraph;


(b) for the Licensed BC TEL Works, BC TEL holds the same rights,
privileges and obligations, including all indemnity obligations, as
apply to BC TEL for the use of the BC TEL Right of Way Area under this
Agreement, and including the right of reasonable access onto the Nisg̱a'a
Lands for the purpose of gaining access to the Licensed BC TEL Works;


(c) if at any time in the course of maintenance or operations BC TEL
replaces or makes significant repairs to Licensed BC TEL Works which are
adjacent to a Crown road right of way area or a BC TEL Right of Way Area
then, upon written notice from the Nisg̱a'a Nation and provided the
relocation does not result in significant increased costs, and for a
Crown road right of way area if the relocation is acceptable to British
Columbia, BC TEL will relocate the Licensed BC TEL Works on to the
adjacent right of way area, and the licence for those Licensed BC TEL
Works will be terminated;


(d) the Nisg̱a'a Nation may at any time at no cost to BC TEL require BC
TEL to enter into an agreement to extend the BC TEL Right of Way Area so
as to incorporate within the BC TEL Right of Way Area any Licensed BC
TEL Works designated by the Nisg̱a'a Nation and upon the appropriate
extension of the BC TEL Right of Way Area the licence for those Licensed
BC TEL Works will be terminated;


(e) the Nisg̱a'a Nation may at any time require BC TEL to relocate
Licensed BC TEL Works designated by the Nisg̱a'a Nation to another
location on Nisg̱a'a Lands including on to an adjacent Crown road right
of way area if acceptable to British Columbia, or to a BC TEL Right of
Way Area and in that event:


(i) if the new location is reasonably suitable for use for BC TEL Works
considering construction, maintenance and operation and costs
BC TEL will proceed with the relocation;


(ii) the Nisg̱a'a Nation will give reasonable notice to permit design,
planning and construction of the BC TEL Works to be relocated;


(iii) the Nisg̱a'a Nation will pay all reasonable costs, including costs
of design, supervision and construction; and


(iv) upon relocation, this licence is extended to the relocated BC TEL
Works, except if the relocated BC TEL Works are located on a Crown road
right of way area or a BC TEL Right of Way Area, then the license for
those BC TEL Works will be terminated.


7. Duration


The rights, liberties and rights of way granted under this Agreement are
for so long as required and will terminate, without compensation to BC
TEL, when BC TEL no longer requires the BC TEL Right of Way Area, and:


(a) BC TEL gives 90 days written notice to the Nisg̱a'a Nation; or


(b) the Nisg̱a'a Nation gives 90 days written notice to BC TEL.


8. Work Plans For BC TEL Works


Except in an emergency BC TEL will provide to the Nisg̱a'a Nation a
written work plan describing proposed work on or related to a BC TEL
Right of Way Area prior to undertaking any of the following work:


(a) installation of any new telecommunication lines;

(b) relocation of any telecommunication lines;

(c) trimming or removal of any trees, growth or vegetation on or
adjacent to a BC TEL Right of Way Area;


(d) constructing any new trails, roads or bridges on the BC TEL Right of
Way Area.


BC TEL will provide the work plan in time to afford the Nisg̱a'a Nation
the opportunity to comment, and BC TEL will use reasonable efforts to
accommodate any suggestions or requests presented by the Nisg̱a'a Nation
provided they do not result in significant increased costs.


9. Insurance and Security


If British Columbia requires BC TEL to carry insurance, to provide
security, or both, in relation to rights of way granted to BC TEL by
British Columbia, then on request of the Nisg̱a'a Nation, BC TEL will
obtain insurance, security, or both, for the benefit of the Nisg̱a'a
Nation on terms substantially the same as required by British Columbia.


10. Access to BC TEL Rights of Way


If for any reason BC TEL is unable to obtain reasonable access to any BC
TEL Works from the BC TEL Right of Way Area, a Crown road, a Nisg̱a'a
road or a BC TEL private access right of way, then the Nisg̱a'a Nation
will, where land access is reasonably practicable, on application from
BC TEL, grant BC TEL the right to cross Nisg̱a'a Lands to provide BC TEL
access on terms substantially the same as contained in Document 3 of
Appendix C-4 to the Final Agreement.


11. Protection of the Environment


BC TEL will undertake activities permitted under this Agreement having
regard for the impact on the environment, and will take prudent measures
to minimize damage or disruption to the environment.


12. Replacement Right of Way


If a material change occurs to lands which for any reason makes the
continued use of any portion of the BC TEL Right of Way Area unsuitable
for the BC TEL Purposes, then the Nisg̱a'a Nation will, without charge,
grant a replacement right of way to BC TEL for construction of the
replacement BC TEL Works, as follows:


(a) BC TEL will, before undertaking any work, deliver a work plan to the
Nisg̱a'a Nation indicating the location of the contemplated replacement
right of way area, for approval by the Nisg̱a'a Nation which approval
will not be unreasonably withheld;


(b) BC TEL will take into account the effect of the replacement right of
way area on adjacent Nisg̱a'a Lands, and any unique aspects of these
lands, and the Nisg̱a'a Nation will take into account the cost
efficiencies of the location selected by BC TEL for a replacement right
of way area in relation to alternative locations;


(c) the replacement right of way agreement will be on the same terms and
conditions as this Agreement, and the Nisg̱a'a Nation will use its best
efforts to ensure that the replacement right of way has the same
priority over other charges and encumbrances as this Agreement;


(d) BC TEL will execute a release of this Agreement in relation to the
portions of the abandoned BC TEL Right of Way Area.


Despite any provision of this paragraph, in an emergency BC TEL may,
without approval from the Nisg̱a'a Nation, enter on to Nisg̱a'a Lands to
undertake all work and take all steps as are reasonably required to be
taken immediately in order to restore electrical and telecommunication
services, or to ensure safety of persons and property that may be at
risk from BC TEL Works. BC TEL will give notice as soon as reasonably
possible to the Nisg̱a'a Nation of any emergency entry.



13. Entry on Nisg̱a'a Lands outside the BC TEL Right of Way Area



BC TEL, and its employees, representatives, agents, contractors,
licensees and assignees, may enter onto Nisg̱a'a Lands outside the BC TEL
Right of Way Area for the purpose of undertaking works to protect BC TEL
Works, or to protect persons and property that may be at risk from BC
TEL Works, as follows:


(a) BC TEL will before commencing any work deliver a written work plan
describing the effect and extent of the proposed work on Nisg̱a'a Lands
to the Nisg̱a'a Nation for approval;


(b) the Nisg̱a'a Nation will not unreasonably withhold approval of the
work plan, considering the effect of the proposed work, including the
cost of the proposed works compared to the cost of alternate solutions,
the extent of the risk of not undertaking the work, and the impact on
the Nisg̱a'a Lands. If BC TEL and the Nisg̱a'a Nation cannot agree on a
work plan requested by BC TEL within 30 days of receipt by the Nisg̱a'a
Nation of the proposed work plan then either party may refer the
disagreement to dispute resolution under Paragraph 21 of this Agreement;


(c) BC TEL will minimize the damage to and time spent on Nisg̱a'a Lands;


(d) BC TEL will pay fair compensation, as defined in the Final
Agreement, for any interference with or damage to adjacent Nisg̱a'a
Lands.


Notwithstanding other provisions of this paragraph or this Agreement, in
an emergency BC TEL may undertake works and take steps on Nisg̱a'a Lands
as are reasonably required to be taken immediately in order to protect
BC TEL Works, or to protect persons and property that may be at risk
from BC TEL Works, and in that event BC TEL will as soon as reasonably
possible notify the Nisg̱a'a Nation in writing.



14. Entry on Nisg̱a'a Lands outside the Crown roads right of way area



The parties' rights and obligations as set out in paragraph 13 apply
with respect to BC TEL Works located on a Crown road right of way
area.


15. Relocation of BC TEL Works


If the Nisg̱a'a Nation requires a portion of a BC TEL Right of Way Area
for other purposes, then upon request by the Nisg̱a'a Nation, BC TEL will
relocate any BC TEL Right of Way Area including the related BC TEL
Works, to a new location as follows:


(a) the relocation will proceed only if the new location is reasonably
suitable for use for BC TEL Works considering construction, maintenance
and operation and costs; and


(b) the Nisg̱a'a Nation will give reasonable notice to permit design,
planning and construction of the BC TEL Works to be relocated; and


(c) the Nisg̱a'a Nation will pay all reasonable costs, including costs of
design, supervision and construction.


The Nisg̱a'a Nation will extend the BC TEL Right of Way Area as
reasonably required, so that the extended BC TEL Right of Way Area has
similar priority over other charges and encumbrances as the original.
When a portion of a BC TEL Right of Way Area is relocated then the BC
TEL Right of Way Area for the portion that is abandoned will be
terminated.


16. Indemnity


BC TEL will indemnify and save harmless the Nisg̱a'a Nation from and
against all losses, damages, costs, liabilities, claims, expenses, and
suits, including fees of solicitors and other professional advisors,
arising out of:


(a) any breach, violation or non-performance by BC TEL of any of BC
TEL's covenants, conditions or obligations under this Agreement; and


(b) any personal injury, death, or property damage, including
environmental damage, occurring on or to Nisg̱a'a Lands arising from BC
TEL's use or occupation of Nisg̱a'a Lands under this Agreement.


17. Covenants of BC TEL

BC TEL covenants with the Nisg̱a'a Nation:

(a) to pay compensation to the Nisg̱a'a Nation for any damage to
buildings, crops (except for trees in the BC TEL Right of Way Area),
livestock, drains, ditches, culverts, fences, trails, bridges, roads and
fruit, nut or ornamental trees caused by BC TEL;


(b) despite subparagraph (a), to pay compensation to its owner, in
accordance with generally accepted principles of timber valuation, for
all merchantable timber cut or damaged by BC TEL on Nisg̱a'a Lands on or
adjacent to the BC TEL Right of Way Area, and the parties agree that, on
payment, title to any timber cut on the Nisg̱a'a Lands under this
Agreement vests in BC TEL;


(c) to pay and discharge when due all applicable taxes, levies, charges
and assessments now or hereafter assessed, levied or charged to the
account of BC TEL which relate to the BC TEL Right of Way Area and which
BC TEL is liable to pay;


(d) to keep the BC TEL Right of Way Area, and any BC TEL Works, in a
safe, clean and sanitary condition to the extent the condition relates
to BC TEL's use or occupation of the BC TEL Right of Way Area, and on
written notice from the Nisg̱a'a Nation, to make safe, clean and sanitary
any portion of the BC TEL Right of Way Area, or the BC TEL Works that
contravene the provisions of this covenant;


(e) not to disturb or interfere with any survey monuments, bars or iron
pins located on the Nisg̱a'a Lands including the BC TEL Right of Way
Area;


(f) not to bury debris or rubbish of any kind on Nisg̱a'a Lands in
excavations or backfill, and to remove shoring and similar temporary
structures as backfilling proceeds;


(g) to bury and maintain all underground works as may be required so as
not to unduly interfere with the drainage of the Nisg̱a'a Lands;


(h) not to commit or suffer any wilful or voluntary waste, spoil or
destruction on the BC TEL Right of Way Area, or anything that may be or
become a nuisance or annoyance to the owners of the Nisg̱a'a Lands,
except to the extent necessary to carry out any of the BC TEL Purposes;


(i) to observe, abide by and comply with all applicable laws, bylaws,
orders, directions, ordinances and regulations of any competent
governmental authority which relate to the BC TEL Right of Way Area;


(j) to permit the Nisg̱a'a Nation to enter upon the BC TEL Right of Way
Area at any time to examine its condition;


(k) if for any reason this Agreement terminates with respect to a
portion of the BC TEL Right of Way Area, to:


(i) quit peaceably that portion of the BC TEL Right of Way Area;


(ii) decommission any BC TEL roads and restore the surface of that
portion of the BC TEL Right of Way Area to a condition to which similar
lands are typically restored in the Province of British Columbia, unless
otherwise agreed to in writing by the Nisg̱a'a Nation and BC TEL at the
time of restoration;


(iii) remove all above ground BC TEL Works from that portion of the BC
TEL Right of Way Area within a reasonable period of time and in any
event within 2 years, and any BC TEL Works remaining on that portion of
the BC TEL Right of Way Area will be absolutely forfeited to and become
the property of the Nisg̱a'a Nation. If the Nisga'a Nation removes any
remaining above ground BC TEL Works within 4 years, BC TEL will, on
demand by the Nisg̱a'a Nation, reimburse the Nisg̱a'a Nation for all
reasonable costs of removal; and


(iv) remain liable for any environmental damage to the Nisg̱a'a Lands
arising from any below ground BC TEL Works that remain on or in that
portion of the BC TEL Right of Way Area after termination, except that
if the Nisg̱a'a Nation uses or authorizes the use of the remaining below
ground BC TEL Works for any purpose than BC TEL will not be liable
for any environmental damage caused by the Nisg̱a'a Nation use, or
authorized use;


and to the extent necessary, this covenant will survive the termination
of this Agreement; and


(l) if BC TEL, or its employees, representatives, agents, contractors,
licensees or assignees, discover any archaeological material on the BC
TEL Right of Way Area, to take all reasonable steps and precautions to
minimize disturbance of that material, and to immediately notify the
Nisg̱a'a Nation.


18. Covenants of the Nisg̱a'a Nation

The Nisg̱a'a Nation covenants with BC TEL:

(a) not to use or authorize the use of the BC TEL Right of Way Area for
any purpose, including the construction of any improvements, that in the
reasonable opinion of BC TEL would be unsafe or would interfere with
BC TEL's use of the BC TEL Right of Way Area;


(b) not to carry out blasting or aerial logging operations on or
immediately adjacent to the BC TEL Right of Way Area without the prior
written permission from BC TEL, which permission will not be
unreasonably withheld or delayed; and


(c) not to intentionally do or authorize any act or thing that injures
or endangers the BC TEL Works.


19. Licence


BC TEL will not licence the use of the BC TEL Right of Way Area, in
whole or in part, without the prior written consent of the Nisg̱a'a
Nation provided that:


(a) BC TEL may, despite any limitations in the grants and authorizations
to BC TEL in this Agreement, grant a licence to Hydro for the use
of the BC TEL Right of Way Area for the transmission and
distribution of electric energy and telecommunications, without the
consent of the Nisg̱a'a Nation. Any licence to Hydro will be deemed to
include the right, exclusively for Hydro's benefit, to remove any tree
located on Nisg̱a'a Lands which by falling or otherwise may endanger any
of Hydro's works, and, except in an emergency, Hydro will be required to
give the Nisg̱a'a Nation prior written notice of the exercise of this
right outside the BC TEL Right of Way Area;


(b) the Nisg̱a'a Nation may attach conditions to its consent to any
licence, including the provision of insurance and security, in a form
and amount acceptable to the Nisg̱a'a Nation; and


(c) no licence will act as a release of any of BC TEL's obligations as
set out in this Agreement.


20. Assignment


Despite paragraph 19, BC TEL may, without the consent of the Nisg̱a'a
Nation, assign its interest in this Agreement to an affiliate (as
defined in the
Company Act
) of BC TEL provided that BC TEL gives 120 days notice in writing
of this change.


21. Disputes


Any dispute arising out of or in connection with this Agreement will be
resolved as follows:


(a) the parties will attempt to resolve disputes by good faith
negotiations, including timely disclosure of all relevant facts,
information and documents;


(b) either party may, at any time, by written notice request that the
dispute be referred to mediation, conducted by a mediator, knowledgeable
about the matters in dispute;


(c) if the dispute is not resolved within 30 days of the notice to
mediate under subparagraph (b) then, on the agreement of both parties,
the dispute may be referred to a single arbitrator for final resolution.
If the parties do not agree to arbitration then either party may refer
the matter to a court of competent jurisdiction;


except that it is not incompatible with this paragraph for a party to
apply to a court of competent jurisdiction at any time for interim or
conservatory relief and for the court to grant that relief.


22. Notice


If notice is required or permitted under this Agreement, the notice:

(a) must be in writing;

(b) must be delivered to the address set out above, or other address as
specified in writing by a party;


(c) may be given in one or more of the following ways:


(i) delivered personally or by courier, and it will be deemed received
on the next business day;


(ii) delivered by fax, and it will be deemed received on the next
business day; or


(iii) mailed by pre-paid post in Canada, and it will be deemed received
on the eighth business day following.


23. Runs With the Land


This Agreement runs with and binds Nisg̱a'a Lands, to the extent
reasonably necessary to give full force and effect to this Agreement.


24. Waiver and Consent


A breach of any term, condition, covenant or other provision of this
Agreement may only be waived in writing, and any waiver will not be
construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach. Consent to or approval
of any act, where consent or approval is required under this Agreement,
will not be construed as consent to or approval of any subsequent act.


25. Remedies


No remedy set out in this Agreement is exclusive of any other remedy
provided by law, but will be in addition to any other remedy existing at
law, in equity, or by statute.


26. Successors and Assigns


The terms and provisions of this Agreement will extend to, be binding
upon and enure to the benefit of the parties and their successors and
assigns.


27. Interpretation

In this Agreement:

(a) all attached schedules form an integral part of this Agreement;


(b) unless the context otherwise requires, the singular includes the
plural and the masculine include the feminine gender, body politic and a
corporation;


(c) the headings are for convenience only and are not to be construed as
defining or in any way limiting the scope or intent of this Agreement;


(d) a reference to an enactment of British Columbia or of Canada will be
deemed to include a reference to any subsequent amendments or
replacements; and


(e) if any provision is determined by a court or arbitrator of competent
jurisdiction to be illegal or unenforceable, that provision will be
considered separate and severable, and the legality or enforceability of
the remaining provisions will not be affected by that determination.


IN WITNESS THEREOF the parties have duly executed this Agreement, as of
the date first referred to above.


NISG̱A'A NATION

Per:______________________________
Per:______________________________

BC TEL

Per:______________________________
Per:______________________________

SCHEDULE A – DESCRIPTION OF BC TEL RIGHT OF WAY AREA




Appendix C-4

APPLICABLE FORMS OF DOCUMENT FOR ROADS LISTED

IN PART 3 OF APPENDIX C-1






Document 1



Grant of Right of Way for Secondary Provincial Roads;





Document 2


Grant of Private Road Easement; and




Document 3



Grant of Right of Way for Access Roads to British Columbia Hydro
and Power Authority (Hydro).








Appendix C-4

Document 1




Grant of Right of Way for

Secondary Provincial Roads



THIS GRANT OF RIGHT OF WAY made the __________ day of __________ , ____

BETWEEN:

NISG̱A'A NATION

[insert address]
("Nisg̱a'a Nation")
AND:


HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN IN RIGHT OF THE PROVINCE OF BRITISH COLUMBIA,

as represented by the Minister of Transportation and Highways

[insert address]
("British Columbia")
WHEREAS:

A.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation, Canada and British Columbia have entered into the
Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement.


B.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation wishes to grant rights of way over areas of Nisg̱a'a
Lands for secondary provincial roads.



Therefore for good and valuable consideration the Nisg̱a'a Nation and
British Columbia agree as follows:



1. Grant of Right of Way.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation hereby grants a right of way to British Columbia for
the secondary provincial road right of way areas described in Schedule A
attached to this Grant of Right of Way.


2. Incorporation by Reference.
This Grant of Right of Way incorporates by reference all provisions of
the Roads and Rights of Way Chapter of the Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement
relating to secondary provincial roads and rights of way for those
roads.


3. Other provisions.


(a)
Notice.
Any notice required under this Grant of Right of Way:

(i) must be in writing;

(ii) must be delivered to the address set out above, or to another
address specified in writing by a party; and


(iii) may be given in one or more of the following ways:


(A) delivered personally or by courier, and it will be deemed to be
received on the next business day;


(B) delivered by fax, and it will be deemed to be received on the next
business day; or


(C) mailed by pre-paid post in Canada, and it will be deemed received on
the eighth business day following.


(b)
Runs with the Land.
This Grant of Right of Way runs with and binds the Nisg̱a'a Lands, to the
extent reasonably necessary to give full force and effect to this Grant.


(c)
Interpretation.
In this Grant of Right of Way:


(i) all attached schedules form an integral part of this Grant;


(ii) headings are for convenience only and are not to be construed as
defining or in any way limiting the scope or intent of this Grant.


IN WITNESS THEREOF the parties have duly executed this Agreement, as of
the date first referred to above.


NISG̱A'A NATION

Per:____________________
Per:____________________


HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN IN RIGHT OF THE PROVINCE OF BRITISH COLUMBIA,

as represented by the Minister of Transportation and Highways

Per:____________________
Per:____________________


SCHEDULE A – DESCRIPTION OF SECONDARY PROVINCIAL ROAD

RIGHT OF WAY AREAS





Appendix C-4

Document 2



Grant of Private Road Easement


THIS AGREEMENT is dated ____________________ , __________

BETWEEN:

[NISG̱A'A NATION or NISG̱A'A VILLAGE]


(TO BE DETERMINED ON EXECUTION)

[insert address]
(the "Owner")
AND:
of
[insert address]
(the "Grantee")

WHEREAS:


A.
The Grantee wishes an easement over the Servient Lands to provide access
to the Grantee's Property.


B.
The Owner is willing to grant to the Grantee an easement over the
Servient Lands to provide access to the Grantee's Property.


Therefore in consideration of the payment of the fee to be paid by the
Grantee, and the Grantee's covenants as set out in this Agreement, the
Owner and Grantee agree as follows:


1. Definitions


"Grantee's Property"
means the lands described in Schedule A attached to this Agreement.


"Easement Area"
means that portion of the Servient Lands as described in Schedule B
attached to this Agreement.


"Security"
means the security for the performance of the Grantee's obligations as
set out in paragraph 11 in the amount of $__________________.


"Servient Lands"
means the lands described in Schedule B attached to this Agreement.


"Special Conditions"
means the conditions, if any, set out in Schedule C attached to this
Agreement.


2. Rights and Privileges on Easement Area


By this Agreement the Owner grants to the Grantee, and its invitees,
permittees, representatives, employees, and agents, their heirs,
executors, administrators and assigns, the full, free and uninterrupted
easement, right and liberty over the Easement Area to enter on and use
the Easement Area for the purpose of constructing and maintaining
(including trimming or removing trees and vegetation) a road and using
the Easement Area as a road to give pedestrian and vehicular access to
the Grantee's Property.


3. Duration


This Easement is appurtenant to the Grantee's Property and passes with a
conveyance or other disposition of the estate in fee simple of the
Grantee's Property, and is binding on the Servient Lands.


4. Annual Fee


The Grantee will pay the Owner an annual fee in advance in the amount of
$________ to cover the Owner's costs of administering this Agreement.


5. Covenant


The obligation of the Grantee in this Agreement constitutes both
contractual obligations and covenants under Section 219 of the
Land Title Act
in respect of the Grantee's Property and runs with the Grantee's
Property and binds successors in title.


6. Non Exclusive Use


This Agreement will not entitle the Grantee to exclusive possession of
the Easement Area and the Owner reserves the right to grant other
dispositions of the Easement Area so long as the grant does not impair
the Grantee's permitted use of the Easement Area.


7. Covenants of the Grantee

The Grantee covenants with the Owner:

(a) to pay the annual fee as described in paragraph 4 at the address of
the Owner set out above or at such other place as the Owner may specify
under paragraph 14;


(b) to pay and discharge when due all applicable taxes, levies, charges
and assessments now or hereafter assessed, levied or charged which
relate to the Easement Area or any of the Grantee's improvements on the
Easement Area which the Grantee is liable to pay;


(c) to observe, abide by and comply with all applicable laws, bylaws,
orders, directions, ordinances and regulations of any competent
government authority, including an Owner government, in any way
affecting the Easement Area and improvements situate thereon, or their
use and occupation;


(d) not to commit or suffer any wilful or voluntary waste, spoil or
destruction on the Easement Area or do or suffer to be done thereon by
its invitees, permittees, representatives, employees, or agents, or
anyone for whom the Grantee is responsible at law, anything that may be
or becomes a nuisance;


(e) not to bury debris or rubbish of any kind on the Easement Area;


(f) not to commit or suffer any wilful or voluntary waste, spoil or
destruction on the Easement Area, or anything that may be or become a
nuisance or annoyance to the Servient Lands;


(g) to deliver to the Owner from time to time, upon demand, proof of
insurance required under this Agreement, receipts or other evidence of
payment of any taxes or charges owning, and other monetary obligations
of the Grantee required to be observed by the Grantee pursuant to this
Agreement;


(h) to indemnify and save harmless the Owner against all losses,
damages, costs and liabilities, including fees of solicitors and other
professional advisors, arising out of:


(i) any breach, violation or non-performance of any covenant, condition
or obligation under this Agreement by the Grantee; and


(ii) any personal injury, death, or property damage, arising out of the
Grantee's use or occupation of the Easement Area under this Agreement,


and the Owner may add the amount of any losses, damages, costs and
liabilities to the fees payable under paragraph 4, and the amount added
will be payable to the Owner immediately.


(i) to keep the Easement Area in a safe, clean and sanitary condition
satisfactory to the Owner acting reasonably, and to make safe, clean and
sanitary any portion of the Easement Area or any improvement thereon
that the Owner, acting reasonably, may direct by notice in writing to
the Grantee;


(j) to permit the Owner or its authorized representative to enter upon
the Easement Area at any time to examine its condition;


(k) to use and occupy the Easement Area in accordance with the
provisions of this Agreement including the Special Conditions, if any,
set out in Schedule C;


(l) on the expiration or at the earlier cancellation of this Agreement:


(i) to quit peaceably and deliver possession of the Easement Area to the
Owner;


(ii) to de-commission the road, including the removal of any structures
or works on the Easement Area, and restore the surface of the Easement
Area to the satisfaction of the Owner acting reasonably;


and to the extent necessary, this covenant shall survive the expiration
or cancellation of this Agreement;


(m) to obtain and keep in force insurance covering the Owner and the
Grantee (without any rights of cross-claim or subrogation against the
Owner) against claims for personal injury, death, property damage or
third party or public liability claims arising from any accident or
occurrence on the Easement Area to an amount not less than
$1,000,000.00;


(n) notwithstanding subparagraph (m), the Owner may from time to time,
acting reasonably, considering the amount of insurance a prudent owner
would carry, require the Grantee to increase the amount of insurance and
the Grantee will, within 60 days of receiving the request, obtain the
required additional insurance and deliver to the Owner written
confirmation of the change;


(o) not to interfere with the activities, works or other improvements of
any other person who enters on or uses or occupies the Easement Area
under a subsequent right or interest granted by the Owner, or who is
otherwise authorized by the Owner to enter on or use or occupy the
Easement Area, in accordance with paragraph 6; and


(p) if the Grantee, or its agents, contractors or representatives,
discover any archaeological material on the Easement Area, to take all
reasonable steps and precautions to minimize disturbance of that
material, and to immediately notify the Owner.


8. Cancellation


Despite any other provision of this Agreement, this Agreement may be
cancelled if the Grantee fails or refuses to observe or perform any term
in this Agreement, and the failure continues after the Owner gives
written notice of the failure to the Grantee for a period of:

(a) 30 days; or

(b) 150 days, if the failure because of its nature reasonably requires
more than 30 days to cure, and provided that the Grantee proceeds
diligently and continuously to cure the failure


then the Owner may by further written notice to the Grantee cancel this
Agreement and despite paragraph 7 (l), any fixtures to the Easement
Area will, at the discretion of the Owner, become the property of the
Owner.


9. Relocation of Easement Area


If the Owner requires the Easement Area for another purpose, the Owner
may, on 180 days written notice to the Grantee and in consultation with
the Grantee:


(a) at its cost locate and construct an alternate road providing access
to the Grantee's Property to a standard at least equivalent to the
original road;


(b) grant a replacement Agreement for the alternate road on the same
terms as this Agreement; and


(c) by further written notice to the Grantee cancel this Agreement;


and on cancellation the Grantee will quit peaceably and deliver
possession of the Easement Area, except that the Grantee may, at its
election, within 60 days of the cancellation, or such longer time as
reasonably required, remove any fixtures from the Easement Area, but the
Grantee will not be required to comply with
paragraph 7 (l) (ii).


10. Third Party Notice


The Owner will not dispose of, or agree to dispose of, the Servient
Lands without first notifying any intended purchaser of the existence of
this Agreement.


11. Ownership of Commercially Valuable Timber


All timber of commercial value on the Easement Area will remain the
property of the Owner.


12. Security


The Grantee will deliver the Security to the Owner within 30 days of the
commencement of this Agreement, and in any event prior to the Grantee's
use of the Easement Area, as security for the performance of the
Grantee's obligations under this Agreement, and the following will
apply:


(a) the Grantee will maintain the Security in full until the later of:

(i) the termination of this Agreement; or

(ii) the complete fulfillment of all of the Grantee's obligations under
this Agreement;


(b) if the Grantee defaults in the performance of any of its obligations
under this Agreement, the Owner may, in its sole election, draw on and
use the Security to reimburse the Owner for all reasonable costs and
expenses, including legal and other professional services costs if any,
caused by or arising out of the Grantee's breach, and in the event of a
call on the Security the Grantee will, as a condition of the
continuation of this Agreement, immediately pay to the Owner the amount
of the draw so that the full amount of the Security is available.


13. Disputes


Any dispute arising out of or in connection with this Agreement will be
resolved as follows:


(a) the parties will attempt to resolve disputes by good faith
negotiations, including timely disclosure of all relevant facts,
information and documents;


(b) either party may, at any time, by written notice request that the
dispute be referred to mediation, conducted by a mediator, knowledgeable
about the matters in dispute;


(c) if the dispute is not resolved within 30 days of the notice to
mediate under subparagraph (b) then, on the agreement of both parties,
the dispute may be referred to a single arbitrator for final resolution.
If the parties do not agree to arbitration then either party may refer
the matter to the courts;


except that it is not incompatible with this paragraph for a party to
apply to a court at any time for interim or conservatory relief, and for
the court to grant that relief.


14. Notice


If notice is required or permitted under this Agreement, the notice:

(a) must be in writing;

(b) must be delivered to the address set out above, or other address as
specified in writing by a party; and


(c) may be given in one or more of the following ways:


(i) delivered personally or by courier, and it will be deemed received
on the next business day;


(ii) delivered by fax, and it will be deemed received on the next
business day; or


(iii) mailed by pre-paid post in Canada, and it will be deemed received
on the eighth business day following.


15. Waiver and Consent


A breach of any term, condition, covenant or other provision of this
Agreement may only be waived in writing, and any waiver will not be
construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach. Consent to or approval
of any act, where consent or approval is required under this Agreement,
will not be construed as consent to or approval of any subsequent act.


16. Remedies


No remedy set out in this Agreement is exclusive of any other remedy
provided by law, but will be in addition to any other remedy existing at
law, in equity, or by statute.


17. Enurement


The terms and provisions of this Agreement shall extend to, be binding
upon and enure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their successors
and permitted assigns.


18. Interpretation

In this Agreement:

(a) all attached schedules form an integral part of this Agreement;


(b) unless the context otherwise requires, the singular includes the
plural and the masculine include the feminine gender, body politic and a
corporation;


(c) the headings are for convenience only and are not to be construed as
defining or in any way limiting the scope or intent of the Agreement;


(d) a reference to an enactment of British Columbia or of Canada will be
deemed to include a reference to any subsequent amendments or
replacements; and


(e) if any provision is determined by a court or arbitrator of competent
jurisdiction to be illegal or unenforceable, that provision will be
considered separate and severable, and the legality or enforceability of
the remaining provisions will not be affected by that determination.


IN WITNESS THEREOF the parties have duly executed this Agreement, as of
the date first referred to above.


NISG̱A'A NATION

Per:____________________
Per:____________________

GRANTEE

Per:____________________
(authorized signatory of Grantee)

SCHEDULE A – DESCRIPTION OF GRANTEE'S PROPERTY



SCHEDULE B – DESCRIPTION OF BOTH SERVIENT LANDS AND EASEMENT AREA



SCHEDULE C – SPECIAL CONDITIONS




Appendix C-4

Document 3




Grant of Right of Way for Access Roads To

British Columbia Hydro and Power Authority



This Agreement is dated ____________________ , __________

BETWEEN:

NISG̱A'A NATION

[insert address]
(the "Nisg̱a'a Nation")
AND:

BRITISH COLUMBIA HYDRO AND POWER AUTHORITY,
continued under the
Hydro and Power Authority Act
, RSBC 1996, c. 212

[insert address]
("Hydro")
WHEREAS:

A.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation, Canada and British Columbia have entered into the
Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement.


B.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation wish to grant to Hydro rights on Nisg̱a'a Lands for
certain roads existing on Nisg̱a'a Lands on the effective date.


Therefore for good and valuable consideration the Nisg̱a'a Nation and
Hydro agree as follows:


1. Definitions


"BC TEL"
means BC TEL, and its successors and assigns.


"Final Agreement"
means the Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement between the Nisg̱a'a Nation, Canada and
British Columbia.


"Hydro Access Roads"
means trails or roads that provide access to a Hydro right of way or
works, including surfacing, bridges, drainage and support works, and
other works required to maintain the integrity of the travelled surface.


"Hydro Access Road Areas"
means those portions of Nisg̱a'a Lands as described in Schedule A
attached to this Agreement.


"Hydro Purposes"
means the transmission and distribution of electric energy and
telecommunications.


2. Relationship to Final Agreement


This Agreement is made under the Final Agreement, and defined terms in
the Final Agreement will have the same meaning in this Agreement.


3. Rights on Hydro Access Road Areas


The Nisg̱a'a Nation grants to Hydro, and its employees, representatives,
agents, contractors, licensees and assignees, the full, free and
uninterrupted right, liberty and right of way, as follows:


(a) to construct, operate, maintain, repair, alter, upgrade, remove and
replace Hydro Access Roads, and remove and trim trees, vegetation and
obstructions, on the Hydro Access Road Areas;


(b) to install, maintain and use gates in all fences constructed by
others which are now or hereafter shall be on the Hydro Access Road
Areas;


(c) to pass and repass over the Hydro Access Road Areas with or without
equipment, machinery and materials as reasonably required by Hydro; and


(d) to generally do all acts or things necessary in connection with the
foregoing.


4. Non Exclusive Use


This Agreement will not entitle Hydro to exclusive possession of the
Hydro Access Road Areas or other parts of the Nisg̱a'a Lands and the
Nisg̱a'a Nation reserves the right to grant other dispositions of the
Hydro Access Road Areas so long as the grant does not materially affect
the exercise of Hydro's rights under this Agreement.


5. Duration


In respect of a Hydro Access Road Area, the rights, liberties and rights
of way granted under this Agreement are for so long as required and will
terminate, without compensation to Hydro, when:


(a) the Hydro right of way that the Hydro Access Road Area serves
terminates; or


(b) Hydro no longer requires the Hydro Access Road Areas, and:


(i) Hydro gives 90 days written notice to the Nisg̱a'a Nation; or


(ii) the Nisg̱a'a Nation gives 90 days written notice to Hydro.


6. Work Plans For Hydro Access Roads


Except in an emergency, Hydro will provide to the Nisg̱a'a Nation a
written work plan describing proposed work on or related to a Hydro
Access Road Area prior to undertaking the construction or development of
any Hydro Access Road. Hydro will provide the work plan in time to
afford the Nisg̱a'a Nation the opportunity to comment, and Hydro will use
reasonable efforts to accommodate any suggestions or requests presented
by the Nisg̱a'a Nation provided they do not result in significant
increased costs.


7. Protection of the Environment


Hydro will undertake activities permitted under this Agreement having
regard for the impact on the environment, and will take prudent measures
to minimize damage or disruption to the environment.



8. Entry on Nisg̱a'a Lands outside the Hydro Right of Way Areas



Hydro, and its employees, representatives, agents, contractors,
licensees and assignees, may enter onto Nisg̱a'a Lands outside the Hydro
Access Road Areas for the purpose of undertaking works to protect Hydro
Access Roads, or to protect persons and property, as follows:


(a) Hydro will before commencing any work deliver a written work plan
describing the effect and extent of the proposed work on Nisg̱a'a Lands
to the Nisg̱a'a Nation for approval;


(b) the Nisg̱a'a Nation will not unreasonably withhold approval of the
work plan, considering the effect of the proposed work, including the
cost of the proposed works compared to the cost of alternate solutions,
the extent of the risk of not undertaking the work, and the impact on
the Nisg̱a'a Lands. If Hydro and the Nisg̱a'a Nation cannot agree on a
work plan requested by Hydro within 30 days of receipt by the Nisg̱a'a
Nation of the proposed work plan, then either party may refer the
disagreement to dispute resolution under Paragraph 14 of this Agreement;


(c) Hydro will minimize the damage to and time spent on Nisg̱a'a Lands;


(d) Hydro will pay fair compensation, as defined in the Final Agreement,
for any interference with or damage to adjacent Nisg̱a'a Lands.


Notwithstanding other provisions of this paragraph or this Agreement, in
an emergency Hydro may undertake works and take steps on Nisg̱a'a Lands
as are reasonably required to be taken immediately in order to protect
Hydro Access Roads, and in that event Hydro will as soon as reasonably
possible notify the Nisg̱a'a Nation in writing.


9. Relocation of Hydro Access Road Areas


If the Nisg̱a'a Nation requires a portion of a Hydro Access Road Area for
another purpose, then upon request by the Nisg̱a'a Nation, Hydro will
relocate any Hydro Access Road Area, including the related Hydro Access
Road, to a new location as follows:


(a) the relocation will proceed only if the new location is reasonably
suitable for use for a Hydro Access Road considering construction,
maintenance and operation and costs; and


(b) the Nisg̱a'a Nation will give reasonable notice to permit design,
planning and construction of the Hydro Access Road to be relocated; and


(c) the Nisg̱a'a Nation will pay all reasonable costs, including costs of
design, supervision and construction.


The Nisg̱a'a Nation will extend a Hydro Access Road Area as reasonably
required, so that the extended Hydro Access Road Area has similar
priority over other charges and encumbrances as the original. When a
portion of a Hydro Access Road Area is relocated, then the Hydro Access
Road Area for the portion that is abandoned will be terminated.


10. Indemnity


Hydro will indemnify and save harmless the Nisg̱a'a Nation from and
against all losses, damages, costs, liabilities, claims, expenses, and
suits, including fees of solicitors and other professional advisors,
arising out of:


(a) any breach, violation or non-performance by Hydro of any of Hydro's
covenants, conditions or obligations under this Agreement; and


(b) any personal injury, death, or property damage, including
environmental damage, occurring on or to Nisg̱a'a Lands arising from
Hydro's use or occupation of Nisg̱a'a Lands under this Agreement,


but not for any claims based on nuisance or the rule in
Rylands v Fletcher
unless Hydro was negligent.


11. Covenants of Hydro

Hydro covenants with the Nisg̱a'a Nation:

(a) to pay compensation to the Nisg̱a'a Nation for any damage to
buildings, crops (except for trees in the Hydro Access Road Areas),
livestock, drains, ditches, culverts, fences, trails, bridges, roads and
fruit, nut or ornamental trees caused by Hydro;


(b) despite subparagraph (a), to pay compensation to its owner, in
accordance with generally accepted principles of timber valuation, for
all merchantable timber cut or damaged by Hydro on Nisg̱a'a Lands on or
adjacent to the Hydro Access Road Areas, and the parties agree that, on
payment, title to any timber cut on the Nisg̱a'a Lands under this
Agreement vests in Hydro;


(c) to pay and discharge when due all applicable taxes, levies, charges
and assessments now or hereafter assessed, levied or charged to the
account of Hydro which relate to the Hydro Access Road Areas and which
Hydro is liable to pay;


(d) to keep the Hydro Access Road Areas in a safe, clean and sanitary
condition to the extent the condition relates to Hydro's use or
occupation, and on written notice from the Nisg̱a'a Nation to make safe,
clean and sanitary any portion of the Hydro Access Road Areas that
contravene the provisions of this covenant, provided that Hydro has no
obligation to keep the Hydro Access Roads suitable for use by anyone
except Hydro;


(e) not to disturb or interfere with any survey monuments, bars or iron
pins located on the Nisg̱a'a Lands including the Hydro Access Road Areas;


(f) not to bury debris or rubbish of any kind on Nisg̱a'a Lands in
excavations or backfill, and to remove shoring and similar temporary
structures as backfilling proceeds;


(g) to bury and maintain all underground works as may be required so as
not to unduly interfere with the drainage of Nisg̱a'a Lands;


(h) not to commit or suffer any wilful or voluntary waste, spoil or
destruction on the Hydro Access Road Areas, or anything that may be or
become a nuisance or annoyance to the owners of the Nisg̱a'a Lands,
except to the extent necessary to carry out any of the matters under
this Agreement;


(i) to observe, abide by and comply with all applicable laws, bylaws,
orders, directions, ordinances and regulations of any competent
governmental authority which relate to the Hydro Access Road Areas;


(j) to permit the Nisg̱a'a Nation to enter upon the Hydro Access Road
Areas at any time to examine its condition;


(k) if for any reason this Agreement terminates with respect to a
portion of the Hydro Access Road Areas, to:


(i) quit peaceably that portion of the Hydro Access Road Areas; and


(ii) decommission any Hydro Access Roads on, and restore the surface of,
that portion of the Hydro Access Road Areas to a condition to which
similar lands are typically restored in British Columbia, unless
otherwise agreed to in writing by the Nisg̱a'a Nation and Hydro at the
time of restoration;


and to the extent necessary, this covenant will survive the termination
of this Agreement; and


(l) if Hydro, or its employees, representatives, agents, contractors,
licensees or assignees, discover any archaeological material on the
Hydro Access Road Areas, to take all reasonable steps and precautions to
minimize disturbance of that material, and to immediately notify the
Nisg̱a'a Nation.


12. Covenants of the Nisg̱a'a Nation

The Nisg̱a'a Nation covenants with Hydro:

(a) not to use or authorize the use of the Hydro Access Road Areas for
any purpose, including the construction of any improvements, that in the
reasonable opinion of Hydro would be unsafe or would interfere with
Hydro's use of the Hydro Access Road Areas; and


(b) not to intentionally do or authorize any act or thing that injures
or endangers the Hydro Access Roads.


13. Licence


Hydro will not licence the use of the Hydro Access Road Areas, in whole
or in part, without the prior written consent of the Nisg̱a'a Nation
provided that:


(a) Hydro may grant a licence to BC Tel for the use of the Hydro Access
Road Areas without the consent of the Nisg̱a'a Nation;


(b) the Nisg̱a'a Nation may attach conditions to its consent to any
licence, including the provision of insurance and security, in a form
and amount acceptable to the Nisg̱a'a Nation; and


(c) no licence will act as a release of any of Hydro's obligations as
set out in this Agreement.


14. Disputes


Any dispute arising out of or in connection with this Agreement will be
resolved as follows:


(a) the parties will attempt to resolve disputes by good faith
negotiations, including timely disclosure of all relevant facts,
information and documents;


(b) either party may, at any time, by written notice request that the
dispute be referred to mediation, conducted by a mediator, knowledgeable
about the matters in dispute;


(c) if the dispute is not resolved within 30 days of the notice to
mediate under subparagraph (b) then, on the agreement of both parties,
the dispute may be referred to a single arbitrator for final resolution.
If the parties do not agree to arbitration then either party may refer
the matter to a court of competent jurisdiction


except that it is not incompatible with this paragraph for a party to
apply to a court of competent jurisdiction at any time for interim or
conservatory relief and for the court to grant that relief.


15. Notice


If notice is required or permitted under this Agreement, the notice:

(a) must be in writing;

(b) must be delivered to the address set out above, or other address as
specified in writing by a party;


(c) may be given in one or more of the following ways:


(i) delivered personally or by courier, and it will be deemed received
on the next business day;


(ii) delivered by fax, and it will be deemed received on the next
business day; or


(iii) mailed by pre-paid post in Canada, and it will be deemed received
on the eighth business day following.


16. Runs With the Land


This Agreement runs with and binds Nisg̱a'a Lands, to the extent
reasonably necessary to give full force and effect to this Agreement.


17. Waiver and Consent


A breach of any term, condition, covenant or other provision of this
Agreement may only be waived in writing, and any waiver will not be
construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach. Consent to or approval
of any act, where consent or approval is required under this Agreement,
will not be construed as consent to or approval of any subsequent act.


18. Remedies


No remedy set out in this Agreement is exclusive of any other remedy
provided by law, but will be in addition to any other remedy existing at
law, in equity, or by statute.


19. Successors and Assigns


The terms and provisions of this Agreement will extend to, be binding
upon and enure to the benefit of the parties and their successors and
assigns.


20. Interpretation

In this Agreement:

(a) all attached schedules form an integral part of this Agreement;


(b) unless the context otherwise requires, the singular includes the
plural and the masculine include the feminine gender, body politic and a
corporation;


(c) the headings are for convenience only and are not to be construed as
defining or in any way limiting the scope or intent of this Agreement;


(d) a reference to an enactment of British Columbia or of Canada will be
deemed to include a reference to any subsequent amendments or
replacements; and


(e) if any provision is determined by a court or arbitrator of competent
jurisdiction to be illegal or unenforceable, that provision will be
considered separate and severable, and the legality or enforceability of
the remaining provisions will not be affected by that determination.


IN WITNESS THEREOF the parties have duly executed this Agreement, as of
the date first referred to above.


NISG̱A'A NATION

Per:____________________
Per:____________________

BRITISH COLUMBIA HYDRO AND POWER AUTHORITY

Per:____________________
Per:____________________

SCHEDULE A – DESCRIPTION OF HYDRO ACCESS ROAD AREAS




Appendix C-5

CERTIFICATES OF POSSESSION ISSUED BY

CANADA ON FORMER NISG̱A'A INDIAN RESERVES

ON NISG̱A'A LANDS








Interest

Holder






Legal

Description





Instrument





Registration

No.









Gingolx (former Kincolith I.R. # 14)




Oliver Melvin Stewart #455
Lot 1, Block 1, Plan 1161
34114
79812


Oliver Melvin Stewart #455
Lot 2, Block 1, Plan 1161
34115
79813


James Henry Robinson #411
Lot 3, Block 1, Plan 1161
34767
81699


Robert Lambert Stewart #111
Lot 4, Block 1, Plan 1161
9006
24233


Sarah K. Barton #26
Lot 5, Block 1, Plan 1161
103977
212875


Alice Rosabelle Benson #31
Lot 6, Block 1, Plan 1161
119591
249559


Reuben Morgan #65
Lot 7, Block 1, Plan 1161
16692
16103


Howard Charles Lincoln #57
Lot 8, Block 1, Plan 1161
3024
24237


Esther Melissa Adams #202
Lot 2, Block 2, Plan 1161
30217
63586


Kenny Fred Moore #982
Lot 5, Block 2, Plan 1161
50599
128887


Mercy Evangeline Robinson #156
Lot 1, Block 3, Plan 1161
32261
72354


Katherine A. Clayton #40
Lot 2, Block 3, Plan 1161
49682
126697



Andrew William Morrison #257

Mitchell Sydney Morrison #70

Lot 3, Block 3, Plan 1161
10516
24313


James Howard Stevens #88
Lot 4, Block 3, Plan 1161
5338
24255



Charles Abraham Stewart #97 (Estate)

Lot 5, Block 3, Plan 1161
11510
24313



Abel Louis Stewart #92

Paul Alfred Stewart #189

(joint tenants)

Lot 6, Block 3, Plan 1161
4734
24257


Philip Rene Watts #471
Lot 7, Block 3, Plan 1161
109176
225459



Stephen (Steven) Geofrey Doolan #258

Lot 8, Block 3, Plan 1161
33791
78596


Lily Eleanor McIntyre #897
Lot 9, Block 3, Plan 1161
46943
118177



Arthur Robert Robinson #417

Ambrose Edward Robinson #156

Marilyn Sarah Robinson #156

Anthony Curtis Robinson #156

(undivided 1/4 interest)

Lot 1, Block 4, Plan 1161

20811

20814

20812

20813

32594



Arnold Stewart #104 -

Pauline Fern Stewart #104

(undivided 1/2 interest)

Lot 2, Block 4, Plan 1161
6634
24405


Hubert Stevens #149
Lot 4, Block 4, Plan 1161
9273
24406



Benjamin Edward Stevens #227

Hubert Emerald Stevens #149

James Stevens #88

Robert Colin Stevens #169

Albert Henry Stevens #179

Peter George Stevens #205

Ray Stevens #447

Larry Allen Stevens #1142

(undivided 1/8th interest)

Lot 5, Block 4, Plan 1161

115061

115062

115063

115064

115065

115066

115067

115068

238738


Henry Yas. Steven (Stephens) #298
Lot 7, Block 4, Plan 1161
50430
128567


Lily Eleanor McIntryre #897
Lot 8, Block 4, Plan 1161
49385
125972



Perry Cecil George Barton #153 (Estate)

Lot A, Block 6, Plan 1161
35802
85165


Albert David Barton #591
Lot B, Block 6, Plan 1161
51054
129952



Percival Desmond Barton #560

(36.92% interest)

Debra Elaine Barton #579

(12.62% interest)

Zelda Marie Barton #199

(12.62% interest)

Leo Brian Barton #199

(12.62% interest)

Claude Nathan Barton #199

(12.61% interest)

Clinton Shannon Barton #199

(12.61% interest)

Lot 1, Block 6, Plan 1161
34971
82422


Marlon Bradford Watts #459
Lot 1A, Block 6, Plan 1161
31116
68394


Arthur Mayard Angus #17
Lot 2, Block 6, Plan 1161
30152
60260


Evelyn Fanny Nelson #76 (Estate)
Lot 3, Block 6, Plan 1161
30757
67194


David George Stewart #781
Lot 4, Block 6, Plan 1161
124852
260621



Larry Melvin Angus #297

Margaret Nellie Massingale #820

Lot 5, Block 6, Plan 1161
119630
249679


Marjorie Charlotte Stewart #162
Lot 6, Block 6, Plan 1161
44455
112472


Charles Max Haines #164
Lot 8, Block 6, Plan 1161
30347
64266


George William Barton #435
Lot 10, Block 6, Plan 1161
37108
89782


Henry William Angus #229
Lot 11, Block 6, Plan 1161
22318
40949


Esther Dorothy Doolan #241
Lot 12, Block 6, Plan 1161
32586
73258


Benson Young #127 (Estate)
Lot 14, Block 6, Plan 1161
3010
24329



George Randolph Moore #387

Christine Arlene Moore #387

(joint tenants)

Lot 1, Block 7, Plan 1161
20088
29536



Eveyln Fanny Nelson #76 (Estate)

James George Alexander #682

Sydney Joshua Alexander #464

Georgina Sarah Barton #24

(each with an undivided interest)

Lot 3, Block 7, Plan 1161
42648
107551


Marietta Joyce Alexander #464
Lot 6, Block 7, Plan 1161
32675
73586


Harold Peter Watts #2
Lot 8, Block 7, Plan 1161
50474
128662



Hubert Max Barton #343

Frederick Edward Barton #22

Godwin Herman Barton #22

(undivided 1/3 interest)

Lot 9, Block 7, Plan 1161
30357
64314


MacDonald Melvin Trimble #309
Lot 1, Block 9, Plan 1161
22597
43561



Mercy Evangeline Thomas #1102

Emily Rose Stevens #88

Sarah Laura Moore #68

Edward George Nelson #75

(joint tenants)

Lot 3, Block 9, Plan 1161
32823
74077


Ramona Stanley (Smythe) #87
Lot 4, Block 9, Plan 1161
3031
24849



Rose Carol Smythe #220

Lavern Joyce Smythe #220

Lot 1, Block 10, Plan 1161
49650
126658


Alfred Lazarus Smythe #222
Lot 2, Block 10, Plan 1161
11979
24333


Laura Myrtle Doolan #48
Lot 1, Block 11, Plan 1161
40830
102919


Laura Myrtle Doolan #48
Lot 2, Block 11, Plan 1161
30831
102920



Rose Carol Smythe #220

Lavern Joyce Smythe #220

Lot 4, Block 11, Plan 1161
49649
126657


Harold Peter Watts #2
Lot 5, Block 11, Plan 1161
4745
24337


Katherine A. Clayton #40
Lot 2, Block 12, Plan 1161
107944
221110


Reuben Morgan #65
Lot 3, Block 12, Plan 1161
6677
24419


Adelia Grace Nelson #75
Lot 1, Block 13, Plan 1161
107997
221380


Thelma Lena Stevens #169
Lot 2, Block 13, Plan 1161
11572
24421


Thelma Lena Stevens #169
Lot 5, Block 13, Plan 1161
105357
215528


Donald S. Doolan #525
Lot 8, Block 13, Plan 1161
40905
103126


Steven Mark Watts #430

Lot 9-1, Block 13, Plan 60904

29215
57974


Steven Mark Watts #430

Lot 9-2, Block 13, Plan 60904

29214
57974


John Edward Stevens #673
Lot 1, Block 14, Plan 1161
123979
259175


Louis John Stewart #105
Lot 2, Block 14, Plan 1161
8491
24442


Emily Venn #118
Lot 4, Block 14, Plan 1161
5588
24438


Raymond Alan Stewart #266
Lot 5, Block 14, Plan 1161
21774
37517



Laura Edith Lincoln #58

Frederick Philip Harris Lincoln #176

(joint tenants)

Lot 6, Block 14, Plan 1161

53541

53542

135092


William Charles Stewart #256
Lot 8, Block 14, Plan 1161
22331
41127


Isaac Benjamin Watts #393
Lot 10, Block 14, Plan 1161
30745
67115


Harold Philip Barton #150
Lot 1, Block 15, Plan 1161
6110
24428


Jessie Josephine Gurney #49
Lot 4, Block 15, Plan 1161
53445
134933


Eugene David Stewart #330
Lot 1, Block 16, Plan 1161
19709
27906




Gingolx (formerly Kincolith I.R. #14A)




Mercy Evangeline Thomas #1102
Lot 1. Plan 1918 RSBC
46716
117570


Mercy Evangeline Thomas #1102
Lot 2, Plan RSBC 2501R
108688
223247


Mercy Evangeline Thomas #1102
Lot 4, Plan RSBC 2501R
108689
223247




Formerly Gitlakdamix I.R. #1




Elsie H. Clayton #23 (Estate)
Lot 1, Block 1, Plan 1163
4400
20978



Marjorie Bright #14 (1/3 interest)

Ben R. Bright #575 (2/18 th interest)

Melvin M. Bright #608 (2/18 th interest)

Wanda V. Bright #421 (2/18 th interest)

Bessie Blackwater #551 (2/18 th interest)

Elinor N. Bright #517 (2/18 th interest)

Charlotte J. Scott #1242 (2/18 th interest)


Lot 3, Block 1, Plan 1163

124177

124178

124179

124180

124181

124182

124183

20977


Martha Munroe #62 (Estate)
Lot 4, Block 5, Plan 1163
4860
20976


Andrew Roger Mercer #290

Parcel 1, Lot 5, Block 5,

Plan 1163

17535
20562


Rachel Haizimsque #42
Lot 11, Block 8, Plan 1163
4862
20975


Oscar Harold Mercer #102
Lot 2, Block 9, Plan 1163
4863
20974


Ellen Davis #26 (Estate)
Lot 1, Block 10, Plan 1163
4871
20949



Norma Grace Varley #1023

Judith Pamela Gonu #195

Karen Sopia Johnson #303

Sharon Alexandria Johnson #309

Lilly Eileen Johnson #1013

Marjery Esther Eli #284

Charlene Louise Johnson #433

Teresa Louanne Johnson #540

Diane Pauline Robinson #538

Albert Curtis Robinson #640

Brian Craig Robinson #670

Melanie Stella Robinson #676

Lot 5, Block 10, Plan 1163

107811

107812

107813

107814

107815

107816

107817

107818

107819

107820

107821

107822


220887




New Aiyansh (formerly New Aiyansh I.R. No. 1)




Edmond Isaac Wright #246
Lot 19-6, Plan 68282
45695
115776




Gitwinksihlkw (formerly Canyon City I.R. No. 7)




Frazer Harry Nice (Nyce) #48
Lot 1, Plan 62995
29153
57633


Minnie Azak #30
Lot 3, Plan 62995
38984
98478


Maurice Alfred Squires #159
Lot 7, Plan 62995
124878
260681



W.C. Azak #75

(Transfer to Gitwinksihlkw band being processed)

Lot 9, Plan 62995
32524
73065


Lawrence Peter Adams #36
Lot 11, Plan 62995
29161
57633



Martha Doris Burton #184

(1/11 th interest)

Agnes Jean Squires #220

(1/11 th interest)

Phyllis Marjorie Cheecham #227

(1/11 th interest)

Jerry Edward Azak #41

(1/11 th interest)

Perry Lloyd Azak #46

(2/11 th interest)

Herbert Wayne Azak #71

(1/11 th interest)

Arnold Ross Azak #79

(2/11 th interest)

Josephine Karen Azak #87

(2/11 th interest)


Lot 12, Plan 62995



107669


107670


107671


107672


107673


107674


107675


107676



220274


Grace Azak #5
Lot 18, Plan 62995
32990
74503



Virginia Stella Azak #35

Jacob Dennis Gary #56

(Estate)

Lot 20, Plan 62995
30348
64268


Chester Earle Nyce #66
Lot 22, Plan 62995
29850
61642


Alice Azak #6
Lot 24, Plan 62995
29170
57633


Alvin Jonathan Azak #52
Lot 27, Plan 62995
29172
57633




(Note: Bracketed spellings are correct and have been agreed upon
by the parties.)








Appendix C-6

PERSONS WITH AN INTEREST AUTHORIZED BY BAND COUNCIL RESOLUTION ON
FORMER NISG̱A'A INDIAN RESERVES

ON NISG̱A'A LANDS






Homeowner Member Name


Member Band No.


Home Location







Gitwinksihlkw Village




Steven C. Azak Sr.
6790004501
Lot 5, Plan 62995


Joshua W. Azak
6790003301
Lot 6, Plan 62995


Irene A. Griffin
6790015501
Lot 8, Plan 62995


Peter R. Squires Sr.
6790014601
Lot 15, Plan 62995


Bruce J. Haldane Sr.
6790004901
Lot 17, Plan 62995


Henry Azak
6790003901
Lot 19, Plan 62995


Bert C. Azak
6790013201
Lot 21, Plan 62995


Chester E. Nyce
6790006601
Lot 22, Plan 62995


Alice Azak
6790000602
Lot 24, Plan 62995


Arnold Azak
6790007901
Lot 25, Plan 62995


Fred A. Azak
6790006101
Lot 26, Plan 62995


Alvin J. Azak
6790005201
Lot 27, Plan 62995


Pheobe Azak
6790002902
Lot 1-new, Plan


Rodney Moore
6790008501
Lot 2 new, Plan


Lavinia Azak
6790012202
Lot 3 new, Plan


Mark R. Azak
6790006401
Lot 4 new, Plan


Jerry Azak
6790004101
Lot 5 new, Plan


Arthur Nyce
6790007301
Lot 6 new, Plan


Collier H. Azak
6790004701
Lot 7 new, Plan


P. Norman Squires Jr.
6790024401
Lot 12 new, Plan


Silas Azak
6790009001
Lot 13 new, Plan


Dennis Nyce
6790009601
Lot 18 new, Plan


R. Allan Azak
6790011801
Lot 20 new, Plan


Alice Nyce
6790016201
Lot 21 new, Plan


William J. Azak
6790011001
Lot 22 new, Plan


Leonard F. Squires
6790016001
Lot 23 new, Plan


T. Ron Nyce
6790005701
Lot 24 new, Plan


J. Clifford Azak Sr.
6790008901
Lot 25 new, Plan


Perry Azak
6790004601
Lot 26 new, Plan


Bruce L. Azak
6790011501
Lot 27 new, Plan


Arthur R. Azak
6790004201
Lot 28 new, Plan


George Morgan
6790003201
Lot 29 new, Plan


Steven Bolton Sr.
6790008101
Lot 30 new, Plan


Dorothy Doolan
6790011401
Lot 31 new, Plan


Harry Nyce Jr.
6790014401
Lot 34 new, Plan




Village of Kincolith




Albert A. Nelson
6710046101
Lot 9 Block 1, Plan 1161


G.V.G. Rental

Lot 1 Block 2, Plan 1161


Esther Adams
6710020202
Lot 2 Block 2, Plan 1161


Band Owned

Lot 3 Block 2, Plan 1161


Band Owned

Lot 4 Block 2, Plan 1161


William Watts Sr.
6710026801
Lot 6 Block 2, Plan 1161


Larry Angus
6710029701
Lot 3 Block 4, Plan 1161


Maintenance Department

Lot 6 Block 4, Plan 1161


S.E.P. Office

Lot 6 A Block 4, Plan 1161


Henry Stephens
6710029801
Lot 7 Block 4, Plan 1161


Lily McIntyre/Doolan
6710089701
Lot 8 Block 4, Plan 1161


GVFB Fire Hall

Lot 9 Block 4, Plan 1161


Mission House

Lot 1 Block 5, Plan 1161


Christ Church

Lot 1 Block 5, Plan 1161


G.V.G./TV Com. Cabin

Lot 0 Block 6, Plan 1161


G.V.G./Band Owned

Lot 7 Block 6, Plan 1161


G.V.G./Band Owned

Lot 9 Block 6, Plan 1161


William Stanley
6710153401
Lot 13 Block 6, Plan 1161


Reuben Morgan
6710006501
Lot 2 Block 7, Plan 1161


School District #92

Lot 4 Block 7, Plan 1161


School District #92

Lot 4 Block 7, Plan 1161


School District #92

Lot 5 Block 7, Plan 1161


School District #92

Lot 5 Block 7, Plan 1161


Arnold Angus
6710066101
Lot 7 Block 7, Plan 1161


New Hall Complex

Lot 1 Block 8, Plan 1161


New Hall Complex

Lot 2 Block 8, Plan 1161


G.V.G.

Lot 3 Block 8, Plan 1161


Rita Barton/Doolan
6710069001
Lot 2 Block 9, Plan 1161


Ramona Smythe Hotel

Lot 4 Block 9, Plan 1161


Teddy Venn Sr.
6710041501
Lot 3 Block 10, Plan 1161


Gene Alexander
6710049301
Lot 3 Block 11, Plan 1161


Gerald Doolan
6710038501
Lot 6 Block 11, Plan 1161


G.V.G./Band Owned

Lot 7 Block 11, Plan 1161


NVHB Health Centre

Lot 1 Block 12, Plan 1161


Nurse's Residence

Lot 1 Block 12, Plan 1161


G.V.G./Rental

Lot 3 Block 13, Plan 1161


Education Department

Lot 3 Block 13, Plan 1161


Gingolx Village Government

Lot 4 Block 13, Plan 1161


Andrew Morrison
6710025701
Lot 6 Block 13, Plan 1161


SD 92/Teacherage

Lot 7 Block 13, Plan 1161


School District #92

Lot 10 Block 13, Plan 1161


School District #92

Lot 11 Block 13, Plan 1161


School District #92

Lot 12 Block 13, Plan 1161


School District #92

Lot 13 Block 13, Plan 1161


Esther Aksidan
6710000302
Lot 14 Block 13, Plan 1161


Alvin Nelson
6710036502
Lot 15 Block 13, Plan 1161


Stuart Doolan
6710031001
Lot 3 Block 14, Plan 1161


Priscilla S/James Stevens

6710089001/

6710008802

Lot 7 Block 14, Plan 1161


Steven Doolan Sr.
6710025801
Lot 9 Block 14, Plan 1161


G.V.G./Band Owned

Lot 2 Block 15, Plan 1161


G.V.G./Band Owned

Lot 3 Block 15, Plan 1161


Marietta Robinson
6710024402
Lot 5 Block 15, Plan 1161


G.V.G./Band Owned

Lot 2 Block 16, Plan 1161


Roger Watts
6710021301
Lot 1 Block 17, Plan 1161


Alvin Smart
6710062201
Lot 2 Block 17, Plan 1161


G.V.G./Rental

Lot 3 Block 17, Plan 1161


Chester Gurney
6710027601
Lot 4 Block 17, Plan 1161


New Church Army

Lot 5 Block 17, Plan 1161


New Church Army

Lot 6 Block 17, Plan 1161


Thomas Sheehan/CMHC

Lot 7 Block 17, Plan 1161


R.C.M.P. Office

Lot 8 Block 17, Plan 1161


Harry Moore Sr./CMHC
6710027001
Lot 9 Block 17, Plan 1161


Morrice Pond
6710027001
Lot 10 Block 17, Plan 1161


Mary Stanley
6710069601
Lot 11 Block 17, Plan 1161


Harold Barton Sr.
6710015001
Lot 12 Block 17, Plan 1161


Justina Barton/CMHC
6710075001
Lot 13 Block 17, Plan 1161


James Randy Stevens
6710052201
Lot 14 Block 17, Plan 1161


Kenny Moore
6710098201
Lot 15 Block 17, Plan 1161


Robin Stewart
6710049701
Lot 16 Block 17, Plan 1161


Vernon Stewart Sr.
6710045801
Lot 17 Block 17, Plan 1161


Peggy Venn/CMHC
6710042501
Lot 18 Block 17, Plan 1161


Raymond Stewart Sr.
6710026601
Lot 19 Block 17, Plan 1161


R. Bennett Clayton
6710004101
Lot 20 Block 17, Plan 1161


David Stewart Sr.
6710078101
Lot 21 Block 17, Plan 1161


Linda J. Venn
6710051902
Lot 22 Block 17, Plan 1161


G.V.G./Band Owned

Lot 23 Block 17, Plan 1161


Albert Barton
6710024001
Lot 24 Block 17, Plan 1161


B.C. Tel Trailer

Lot 25 Block 17, Plan 1161


Paul A. Stewart Sr.
6710018901
Lot 26 Block 17, Plan 1161


George Nelson Sr.
6710022901
Lot 27 Block 17, Plan 1161


Emily Louise Dangel
6710078801
Lot 28 Block 17, Plan 1161


Nora Doolan/CMHC
6710078601
Lot 29 Block 17, Plan 1161


Not Safe*

Lot 30 Block 17, Plan 1161


Arthur J. Nelson
6710023001
Lot 31 Block 17, Plan 1161


Kazaan Smythe Sr.
6710057401
Lot 32 Block 17, Plan 1161


Reynold Venn
6710064601
Lot 33 Block 17, Plan 1161


G.V.G./Rental

Lot 34 Block 17, Plan 1161


Yvonne Barton
6710056101
Lot 35 Block 17, Plan 1161


Troy Stewart
6710101301
Lot 36 Block 17, Plan 1161


Willard Lincoln Jr.
6710091501
Lot 37 Block 17, Plan 1161


G.V.G./Band Owned

Lot 38 Block 17, Plan 1161




Lot 39 Block 17, Plan 1161


G.V.G./Rental

Lot 40 Block 17, Plan 1161


Macdonald C. Stanley
6710099001
Lot 41 Block 17, Plan 1161


William Smythe
6710072701
Lot 42 Block 17, Plan 1161


MacDonald Trimble
6710030901
Lot 43 Block 17, Plan 1161


Steven Doolan Jr.
6710082501
Lot 44 Block 17, Plan 1161


Peter Stevens Jr.
6710057801
Lot 45 Block 17, Plan 1161


Barry Smythe
6710061101
Lot 46 Block 17, Plan 1161


Neil Okabe
6810017501
Band owned trailer unit



Richard Lincoln/

D. Maitland

6710035901
Band owned trailer unit


Raymond Stewart Jr.
6710090501
Band owned trailer unit


Myra Barton/Terrance
6710119201
Band owned trailer unit


Neal Barton/Shanna Nelson
6710111301
Band owned trailer unit


Zelda Komurcu
6710121001
Band owned trailer unit


Floyd/Michell Stevens
6710109301
Band owned trailer unit



Priscilla Gurney/

Shawn Barton

6710102601
Band owned trailer unit



Jason Stewart/

Charlene Derrict

6710128401
Band owned trailer unit


Claude Barton Sr.
6710073801
Band owned trailer unit


Darrel/Collette Angus
6710098701
Lot 1 Block 18, Plan 1161




Lot 2 Block 18, Plan 1161




Lot 3 Block 18, Plan 1161


Peter Stevens Sr.
6710020501
Lot 4 Block 18, Plan 1161


Randy/Julia Stevens
6710052201
Lot 5 Block 18, Plan 1161


Richard/Wilma Oshea
6710029201
Lot 6 Block 18, Plan 1161




Lot 7 Block 18, Plan 1161




Lot 8 Block 18, Plan 1161




Lot 9 Block 18, Plan 1161




Lot 10 Block 18, Plan 1161




Lot 11 Block 18, Plan 1161


Russell/Margo Calder
6710135401
Lot 12 Block 18, Plan 1161




Lot 13 Block 18, Plan 1161


Lisa/Perry Stevens
6710071301
Lots 14/15 Block 18(Unit1)


April Nelson
6710109101
Lots 14/15 Block 18(Unit 2)


Sally Stephens/Perry Terrel
6710141301
Lots 14/15 Block 18(Unit 3)


Calvin/Cindy Barton
6710047001
Lots 14/15 Block 18(Unit 4)


Marylee Stevens
6710103301
Lots 14/15 Block 18(Unit 5)


Raymond Moore
6710047201
Lots 14/15 Block 18(Unit 6)


Hope Grace Allen
6710084901
Lot 16 Block 18, Plan 1161


Susan Trimble
6710030902
Lot 17 Block 18, Plan 1161


Neal/Shanna Barton
6710111301
Lot 18 Block 18, Plan 1161


Alvin/Gwen Nelson
6710036501
Lot 19 Block 18, Plan 1161




Lot 20 Block 18, Plan 1161


Evan Henry/Alaura Doolan
6710049001
Lot 21 Block 18, Plan 1161


Neil/Emily Smythe
6710065701
Lot 22 Block 18, Plan 1161


Fraser/Melanie Doolan
6710102901
Lot 23 Block 18, Plan 1161




Lot 24 Block 18, Plan 1161


Claude/Tanya Barton
6710073801
Lot 25 Block 18, Plan 1161


Kirby/Colette Stephens
6710102801
Lot 26 Block 18, Plan 1161


Rudolph/Alberta Watts
6710050501
Lot 27 Block 18, Plan 1161




Village of Gitlakdamix





Roderick Robinson

Marjorie Robinson


6770011701

6770011702

321, CLSR Plan 73712



Reginald Percival

Mary Percival


6770042601

6770042602

320, CLSR Plan 73712



Brian Tait

Faith Tait


6770039901

6770047301

319, CLSR Plan 73712


Laura Welde
6770077601
318, CLSR Plan 73712



Eric Clayton

Eva Clayton


6770065301

6770044101

317, CLSR Plan 73712


Marjorie Bright
677001402
316, CLSR Plan 73712



Frank Tait

Gail Tait


6770055301

6770071201

315, CLSR Plan 73712


Lorene Plante
6770074901
314, CLSR Plan 73712


Veronica Eli
6770056101
313, CLSR Plan 73712



Frank Gosnell

Kate Gosnell


6770068501

6770072301

312, CLSR Plan 73712



Bertram Gonu

Leona Gonu


6770045401

6770061801

279, CLSR Plan 70837


Sybil Nisyok
6770053602
278, CLSR Plan 70837



Hubert Doolan

Evangeline Doolan


6770035401

6770035402

277, CLSR Plan 70837



Theodore Gosnell

Lisa Gosnell


6770058601

6770071301

276, CLSR Plan 70837



Bruce Adams

Esther Adams


6770042301

6770042302

275, CLSR Plan 70837



Donald Adams

Patricia Adams


6770014001

6770014002

274, CLSR Plan 70837


Georgina Harris
6770080801
273, CLSR Plan 70837



Floyd Davis

Anita Davis


6770035901

6770035902

272, CLSR Plan 70837



Vernon Eli

Sheila Eli


6770036301

6770036302

271, CLSR Plan 70837


James Adams
6770000701
270, CLSR Plan 70837



Russell Morven

Monica Morven


6770045501

6770059401

339, CLSR Plan 75000


William E. Tait
6770010301
338, CLSR Plan 75000


Violet Guno
6770004002
337, CLSR Plan 75000



Joseph Gosnell

Adele Gosnell


6770014801

6770014802

336, CLSR Plan 75000



Calvin Morven

Charlene Morven


6770037601

6770037602

335, CLSR Plan 75000



Allen Clayton

Myrtle Clayton


6770020501

6770020502

334, CLSR Plan 75000


Erma Gosnell
6770110101
333, CLSR Plan 75000



Bertie T. Adams

Elizabeth Adams


6770015901

6770015902

332, CLSR Plan 75000


Ida Peal
6770007502
330, CLSR Plan 75000


Dorothy Elliot
6770062901
329, CLSR Plan 75000



Carl Johnson

Greta Johnson


6770034401

6770057801

328, CLSR Plan 75000



Alver Tait

Lillian Tait


6770071801

6770021902

327, CLSR Plan 75000



George Jr. McMillan

Yvette McMillan


6770052601

6770099701

326, CLSR Plan 75000



Thomas Clayton

Donna Clayton


6770022801

6770022802

325, CLSR Plan 75000



Earl Munroe

Margo Munroe


6770040201

6770040202

324, CLSR Plan 75000



Melvin Robinson

Rosie Robinson


6770019601

6770019602

280, CLSR Plan 70837



Richard Azak

Angela Azak [Robinson]


6770055401

6770076501

281, CLSR Plan 70837


Josephine Casey
6770087101
282, CLSR Plan 70837


Louise Martian
6770073001
283, CLSR Plan 70837



Patrick McMillan

Phyllis McMillan


6770006901

6770006902

284, CLSR Plan 70837



Edgar Guno

Doreen Guno


6770044601

6770044602

291, CLSR 70837



Reuben Gonu

Charlotte Gonu


6770054101

6770063201

264, CLSR Plan 70011



William Clayton

Lynne Clayton


6770047901

6770047902

265, CLSR Plan 70011



Christopher Clayton

Sarah Clayton


6770002001

6770002002

266, CLSR Plan 70011


Shirley Morven
6770106901
267, CLSR Plan 70011



George Sr. McMillan

Verna McMillan

6770013301
259, CLSR Plan 70011



Leonard Moore

Ferdillia Moore


6770049201

6770029202

260, CLSR Plan 70011


Annie Morven
6770005602
261, CLSR Plan 70011


Alvin Clayton
6770053101
262, CLSR Plan 70011



Edward McMillan

Teresa McMillan


6770029201

6770029202

255, CLSR Plan 70011



Wayne Nisyok

Gloria Nisyok


6770038401

6770038402

254, CLSR Plan 70011



Cuthbert Munroe

Edith Munroe


6770026401

6770026402

253, CLSR Plan 70011



Keith Tait

Marilyn Tait


6770032501

6770032502

237, CLSR Plan 69298



Currie Gosnell

Stacey Gosnell


6770044701

6770075401

236, CLSR Plan 69298


Oscar Mercer
6770010201
229, CLSR Plan 67309


Cecil Mercer
6770021901
235, CLSR Plan 69298



Gerald Nisyok

Teresa Louanne Johnson


6770041001

6770054001

234, CLSR Plan 69298



Claude Morven

Cora Morven


6770024301

6770024302

233, CLSR Plan 69298


Dan Gonu Jr.
6770093001
292, CLSR Plan 70837


Ruby Parenteau
6770084601
293, CLSR Plan 70837


Frank Adams
6770033401
294, CLSR Plan 70837


Elaine Barton
6770056502
230, CLSR Plan 67309


Rebecca Adelaide Tait
6770064501
221



Donald Haizimsque

Jean Haizimsque


6770023501

6770023502

298, CLSR Plan 70837



Gary Davis

Colleen Davis


6770029101

6770029102

299, CLSR Plan 70837



Isaac Guno

Trudy Guno


6770040601

6770040602

300, CLSR Plan 70837



Ben Sr. Gonu

Barb Gonu


6770023601

6770023602

301, CLSR Plan 70837


Ben Gosnell
6770079101




Felix Davis

Elizabeth Davis


6770002401

6770002402




Keith Woods
6770060901
32, CLSR Plan 55248


Lily Johnson
6770101301
33, CLSR Plan 55248



Cecil Morven

Josephine Morven


6770006101

6770006102

34, CLSR Plan 55248



Alfred Jr. Johnson

Donna Johnson


6770061101

6770059801

35, CLSR Plan 55248



Floyd Percival

Mildred Percival


6770038501

6770038502

36, CLSR Plan 55248


Reynold Davis
6770002801
37, CLSR Plan 55248


Valerie Davis
6770084201
38, CLSR Plan 55248



Clifford Jr. Percival

Christina Percival


6770091901

6770082401

39, CLSR Plan 55248


Sharlene Lacroix
6770097501
171, CLSR Plan 63206


Emily Mercer
6770005002
1 - 1, CLSR Plan 70837


Dan Gonu Sr.
6770019501
1 -2, CLSR Plan 70837



Peter Clayton

Roberta Clayton


6770011901

6770011902

311, CLSR Plan 70837



Howard Grandison

Mary Grandison


6770048101

6770048102

3, CLSR Plan 55248



Lonny Stewart

Maryann Adams


6770064701

6770089601

4, CLSR Plan 55248


Sarah Haizimsque
6770004502
5, CLSR Plan 55248


Pauline Johnson
6770028001
6, CLSR Plan 55248



Sidney Eli

Rena Eli


6770003201

6770003202

11, CLSR Plan 55248


Ron & Lorna Davis
6770026701 & 6770026702
12, CLSR Plan 55248



Chester Haizimsque

Elizabeth Haizimsque


6770020201

6770020202

13, CLSR Plan 55248


Edith Guno
6770003702
10, CLSR Plan 55248


Emily Guno
6770004102
9, CLSR Plan 55248



Joseph Grandiosn

Pauline Grandison


6770003401

6770003402

8, CLSR Plan 55248


Freda Morven
6770005802
7, CLSR Plan 55248



Roy Adams

Selina Adams


6770011001

6770011002

18, CLSR Plan 55248



Phillip Azak

Cecilia Azak


6770034601

6770034602

17, CLSR Plan 55248


Gustave Raymond Guno
6770023301
15, CLSR Plan 55248


Hubert McMillan
6770006801
23, CLSR Plan 55248



Samuel Nisyok

Florence Nisyok


6770021001

6770021002

20, CLSR Plan 55248



Samuel McMillan

Sarah McMillan


6770012101

6770012102

19 -7, CLSR Plan 68282


Mary McMillan
6770007002
27, CLSR Plan 55248


B. Daniel Nisyok
6770010501
26, CLSR Plan 55248


Oliver Woods
6770009401
25, CLSR Plan 55248


Gordon McKay
6770022201
204, CLSR Plan 63206


Leanne Wright
6770088601
203, CLSR Plan 63206



Wilfred Adams

Amelia Adams


6770013701

6770013702

170, CLSR Plan 63206


Sidney Clayton
6770055201
169, CLSR Plan 63206



Irvine Tait

Vivian Tait


6770038701

6770038702

310, CLSR Plan 70837



Ivan Gonu

Wanda Gonu


6770027501

6770027502

306, CLSR Plan 70837



Russell Gonu

June Gonu


6770030601

6770030602

225, CLSR Plan 67309


Ronald Peal
6770025301
226, CLSR Plan 67309



Keith Clayton

Jean Clayton


6770040101

6770040102

228, CLSR Plan 67309



James Douglas Clayton

Cecelia Edna Clayton


6770015201

6770015202

172, CLSR Plan 63206



Stephen Derrick

Mavis Derrick


6770024501

6770024502

173, CLSR Plan 63206



Jacob Davis

Phoebe Davis


6770002702

6770002702

174, CLSR Plan 63206


Harold Wright
6770044301
176, CLSR Plan 63206


Elizabeth Wright
6770044302




Perry Clayton

Kathleen Clayton


6770028801

6770028802

177, CLSR Plan 63206


Pauline Robinson
6770007802
178, CLSR Plan 63206


James Wright
6770086301
179, CLSR Plan 63206


Ivy Woods
6770009002
180, CLSR Plan 63206



Moses Johnson

Fran Johnson


6770040701

6770040702

243, CLSR Plan 69298



Steven Eli

Denise Eli


6770051201

6770051202

242, CLSR Plan 69298



Gerald Clayton

Roberta Clayton


6770064301

6770064302

241, CLSR Plan 69298


Matthew Steven Clayton
6770035301
240, CLSR Plan 69298



Arthur Johnson

Hope Johnson


6770025001

6770025002

239, CLSR Plan 69298



Robert Blackwater

Bessie Blackwater


6770055101

6770055102

238, CLSR Plan 69298



Gary Tait

Marlene Tait


6770029601

6770029602

251, CLSR Plan 69298


Daphne Robinson
6770060101
250, CLSR Plan 69298



Victor Robinson

Hilda Robinson


6770038601

6770038602

249, CLSR Plan 69298



Trevor Stewart

Yvonne Stewart


6770061001

6770061002

248, CLSR Plan 69298



Annette Peal

(George Peal Jr.)

6770106301
245, CLSR Plan 69298


Edna Tait
6770044901
244, CLSR Plan 69298



Herbert Morven

Nita Morven


6770021201

6770021202

142, CLSR Plan 63206



Samuel Munroe

Kathy Munroe


6770020901

6770020902

141, CLSR Plan 63206


Christine Gosnell
6770013502
140, CLSR Plan 63206


Henry Wright
6770020801
139, CLSR Plan 63206



Max Wright

Elizabeth Wright


6770015801

6770015802

138, CLSR Plan 63206


Myrna Wright
6770108901
137, CLSR Plan 63206


Ethel Munroe
6770006401
130, CLSR Plan 63206


George Gosnell
6770076901
128, CLSR Plan 63206



Edmond Wright

Millicent Wright


6770024601

6770024602

129, CLSR Plan 63206


Jackie Adams
6770073501
136, CLSR Plan 63206



Kelly McMillan

Melinda McMillan


6770018201

6770018202

131, CLSR Plan 63206


Margaret Woods
6770061701
132, CLSR Plan 63206



Percy Tait

Doris Tait


6770008701

6770008702

133, CLSR Plan 63206



Clifford Sr. Percival

Lilac Percival


6770022401

6770022402

134, CLSR Plan 63206



Fred Grandison

Sharlene Grandison


6770051301

6770051302

135, CLSR Plan 63206



Phillip Azak

Cecilia Azak


6770034601

6770034602

342, (Item 1996 10 148)



Glen Nisyok

Andrea Nisyok


6770051901

6770051902

343, (Item 1996 10 148)


Band House

344, (Item 1996 10 148)


Tania Percival
6770099901
345, (Item 1996 10 148)


Ralph Robinson
677
346, (Item 1996 10 148)



Kimberly Munroe

[Thompson]

6770087301
347, (Item 1996 10 148)


Debra Stewart (Clayton)
6770099801
348, (Item 1996 10 148)



Gerald Robinson

Dena Robinson


6770041201

6770041202

350, (Item 1996 10 148)



Terrance Morven

Sharlene Morven


6770032001

6770032002

349, (Item 1996 10 148)



Lauren Peter Adams

Sheila McKay


6770072001

6770071901

351, (Item 1996 10 148)



Fred Clayton

Georgia Clayton


6770063101

6770063102

352, (Item 1996 10 148)



Samuel McMillan

Sarah McMillan


6770012101

6770012102

353, (Item 1996 10 148)



Robert Eli

Claudine Eli


6770088301

6770107001

354, (Item 1996 10 148)


Bernice Grandison
6770064201
355, (Item 1996 10 148)



Godfrey Adams

Mildred Adams


6770000501

6770000502

356, (Item 1996 10 148)



Hugh Woods

Geraldine Woods


6770039501

6770039502

357, (Item 1996 10 148)



James Nicholas Tait

Linda Morven


6770051401

6770058001

359, (Item 1996 10 148)


Bert Mercer
6770052401
363, (No CLSR plan)



Simon Guno

Patricia Guno


6770069701

6770106601

364, (No CLSR plan)


Lyle E. Adams
6770081601
365, (No CLSR plan)



Daniel Gonu

Lisa Gonu


6770093001

6770083201

366, (No CLSR plan)



Patrick Clayton

Sharlene Lacroix


6770063701

6770097501

367, (No CLSR plan)


Joyce Bright
677
368, (No CLSR plan)



Walter Nisyok

Renee Nisyok


6770082501

6770109001

375, (No CLSR plan)


Marianne Mitchell
6770080001
376, (No CLSR plan)


Frank Clayton
6770026501
377, (No CLSR plan)



Brad Percival

Angela Percival


6770060301

677

378, (No CLSR plan)


Charlene Ousey
677
379, (No CLSR plan)



Vincent Johnson

Cheryl Johnson


6770037201

6770037202

380, (No CLSR plan)


Frances Morven
6770017001
382, (No CLSR plan)


Charles Morven
6770026301
383, (No CLSR plan)



Alfred Sr. Johnson

Dorothy Johnson


6770014701

6770014702

386, (No CLSR plan)


Winnie Morven
6770041401
391, (No CLSR plan)


Dan Gonu
6770019501
392, (No CLSR plan)


Loretta Pelletier
6770081001






Village of La
x
galts'ap





Kenny L. Robinson
6780042701
Lot 1 Block 1


John D. Robinson
6780015701
Lot 2 Block 1


Roy L. McKay
6780028501
Lot 3 Block 1


Stephen A. Moore
6780032301
Lot 4 Block 1


Mary A Moore
6780018102
Lot 5 Block 1


Leon P. Stephens
6780090201
Lot 6 Block 1


Matt Wright
6780118701
Lot 7 Block 1


Gus Sampare
6780023101
Lot 8 Block 1


Lorne Campbell
6780023301
Lot 9 Block 1


LVG Triplex

Lot 1 Block 2


Fred Stephens
6780023001
Lot 2 Block 2


Charlie W. Stephens
6780033301
Lot 3 Block 2


Alvin A. McKay
6780011901
Lot 4 Block 2


Rhonda V. Leeson
6780027502
Lot 5 Block 2


Charles I. Leeson
6780048901
Lot 6 Block 2


Philip J. Stephens
6780033401
Lot 7 Block 2


Melvin C. Stevens
6780036001
Lot 8 Block 2


Bruce K. Stephens
6780033201
Lot 9 Block 2


Horace E. Stevens
6780085601
Lot 10 Block 2


Vacant

Lot 11 Block 2


Sylvia J. Stephens
6780108201
Lot 1 Block 4


Vacant

Lot 2 Block 4


Lorne T. McKay
6780032501
Lot 3 Block 4


Irene P. McKay
6780014502
Lot 4 Block 4


Alexander E. Stephens
6780009001
Lot 5 Block 4


Wallace Clark
6780036801
Lot 6 Block 4


Flora J. Bright
6780031101
Lot 7 Block 4


Milton E. Clark
6780002201
Lot 8 Block 4


Bradley W. Moore
6780045001
Lot 9 Block 4


Lorne A. Ryan
6780089801
Lot 10 Block 4


Mayne K. Stephens
6780047201
Lot 11 Block 4


Clarence B. Stephens
6780015101
Lot 12 Block 4


Henry M. Moore
6780024601
Lot 13 Block 4


Barry F. Stevens
6780033601
Lot 14 Block 4


John W. Tait
6780045901
Lot 15 Block 4


Lawrence R. Stephens
6780044101
Lot 16 Block 4


Earl D. Stephens
6780040901
Lot 17 Block 4


Rosalee J. Vickers
6780049302
Lot 18 Block 4


Fred V. Moore
6780030401
Lot 1 Block 5


LVG Duplex

Lot 2 Block 5


Elsie G. Martin
6780067701
Lot 3 Block 5


Irene Robertson
6780091501
Lot 4 Block 5


Moses G. McKay
6780021301
Lot 5 Block 5


Jacob V. McKay
6780016801
Lot 6 Block 5


Joseph Tait
6780015001
Lot 7 Block 5


Dianna A. Rai
6780094701
Lot 8 Block 5


Ivan J. Moore
6780014301
Lot 9 Block 5


Raymond I. Calder
6780009801
Lot 1 Block 6


Gary B. Stephens
6780023901
Lot 2 Block 6


LVG Rental

Lot 3 Block 6


Donald V. Leeson
6780034501
Lot 4 Block 6


Alan M. McKay
6780032401
Lot 5 Block 6


LVG Rental

Lot 6 Block 6


Vacant

Lot 7 Block 6


Easement

Lot 8 Block 6


Delmer F. Clark
6780054101
Lot 9 Block 6


LVG Duplex

Lot 10 Block 6


LVG Rental Unit

Lot 11 Block 6


Percy M. Stephens
6780030901
Lot 12 Block 6


Vacant

Lot 13 Block 6


Terry Stevens
6780009901
Lot 14 Block 6



La
x
galts'ap Elementary School


Lot 1 Block 7


Vacant

Lot 2 Block 7


Arnold J. Stewart
6780055801
Lot 3 Block 7


Rodney I. Davis
6780051701
Lot 4 Block 7


Lyle M. Stevens
6780040601
Lot 5 Block 7


Morris R. Watts
6780033901
Lot 6 Block 7


Vacant

Lot 7 Block 7


BC Tel Trailer

Lot 8 Block 7


Rennie M. Tait
6780042501
Lot 9 Block 7


Marcus N. Bright
6780022901
Lot 10 Block 7


Perry H. Robinson
6780088401
Lot 11 Block 7


Larry H. Martin
6780024901
Lot 12 Block 7


Erwin L. Alexander
6780087501
Lot 13 Block 7


Louis B. McKay
6780038901
Lot 14 Block 7


Colin A. Moore
6780042401
Lot 15 Block 7


Leonard F.J. Robinson
6780014201
Lot 16 Block 7


Nurse's Trailer

Lot 17 Block 7


Thomas T. Tait
6780056301
Lot 18 Block 7


Vacant

Lot 19 Block 7


Norman A. Stephens
6780035901
Lot 20 Block 7


Reginald E. Sampare
6780094501
Lot 21 Block 7


Alan F. Moore
6780020301
Lot 22 Block 7


Christine McKay
6780006502
Lot 23 Block 7


Clarence C. Robinson
6780020201
Lot 24 Block 7


Frederick W. Tait
6780040301
Lot 1 Block 8


Alfred A. Robinson
6780007101
Lot 2 Block 8


Duane S. McKay
6780066701
Lot 3 Block 8


Arthur G. Moore
6780011601
Lot 4/12 Block 8


Herbert Calder
6780001801
Lot 5/11 Block 8


James McNeil
6780035101
Lot 6/10 Block 8


Wilfred Tait
6780011701
Lot 7 Block 8


Alex A. Angus
6780015601
Lot 8 Block 8


Charlie J. Swanson
6780012801
Lot 9 Block 8


St. Andrew's Church

Lot 1 Block 9


Charles J. Moore
6780025501
Lot 2 Block 9


Katherine Stephens
6780008802
Lot 3 Block 9


Marina J. McKay
6780025802
Lot 4 Block 9


Glen C. Robinson
6780025001
Lot 5 Block 9


Bertram McKay
6780005301
Lot 6 Block 9


Horace M. Stephens
6780038201
Lot 7 Block 9


William A. Moore
6789925201
Lot 8 Block 9


Charles E. Davis
6780036301
Lot 9 Block 9


Irma Innes
6780048202
Lot 10 Block 9


Kenneth R. Davis
6780039701
Lot 11 Block 9


Vacant

Lot 12 Block 9


Charlie S. Watts
6780033801
Lot 13 Block 9





Village of La
x
galts'ap – North Road Cresent Subdivision





Victoria B. Stevens
6780060401
Lot 1


Brenda A. Morrison
6780079301
Lot 2


Matthew H. Moore
6780035401
Lot 3


Reynard H. Moore
6780022601
Lot 4


Hector Gurney
6780015801
Lot 5


Kevin H. McKay
6780039401
Lot 6


Noreen K. Cross
6780040201
Lot 7


Abraham Davis
6780002501
Lot 8


Albert L. Stephens
6780008401
Lot 9


Nurse's Residence

Lot 10


Roderick Maxwell
6780011001
Lot 11


Matthew C. Bright
6780022601
Lot 12


Craig G. McKay
6780051601
Lot 13


Mario O. Stevens
6780054401
Lot 14


Marvin C. Stephens
6780039601
Lot 15





Village of La
x
galts'ap – Cottonwood Court Subdivision





Marie A. Watts
6780094201
Lot 16


Willard A. Martin
6780017301
Lot 17


Karon L. McKay
6780031201
Lot 18


Peter Leeson
6780041901
Lot 19


Harry M. Stephens
6780050101
Lot 20


Currie W. Gurney
6780037901
Lot 21


James W.R. Lincoln
6780091301
Lot 22


Oscar H. Clayton
6780088601
Lot 23





Village of La
x
galts'ap – Highway Drive Subdivision





Lois G.D. McKay
6780041501
Lot 24


Cheryl J. Sampare
6780062701
Lot 25





Village of La
x
galts'ap – Spruce Drive Subdivision





LVG Daycare

Lot 26


Tony C. Stevens
6780054701
Lot 27


Ira A. McKay
6780051101
Lot 28


Barbara L. Davis
6780034102
Lot 29


Brenda E. Stevens
6780037102
Lot 30


Viola C. Robinson
6780031301
Lot 31


Martin J. Robinson
6780066901
Lot 32


Albert M. Stephens
6780066901
Lot 33


Sherry E. Small
6780046201
Lot 34


Vernon Gurney
6780053101
Lot 35


Vincent Robinson
6780065501
Lot 36


Andrew S. McKay
6780057901
Lot 37


Darren C. McNeil
6780073101
Lot 38


Delores M. McKay
6780099201
Lot 39


Charlotte P. Haizimsque
6780094401
Lot 40





Village of La
x
galts'ap – Willow Place Subdivision





Magnus C. Stevens
6780027301
Lot 41


Hester R. McKay
6780016102
Lot 42


Barbara M. Edgar
6780093701
Lot 43


Annette B. Clayton
6780096601
Lot 44


Alfred S. Stewart
6780059001
Lot 45





Village of La
x
galts'ap – Spruce Drive Subdivision





Christine E. Collison
6780045601
Lot 46


Valerie J. Evans
6780051401
Lot 47


Hubert W. Haldane
6780023201
Lot 48





Village of La
x
galts'ap – Multi-family rental units





Perry T. Robinson
6780118501
402 A


Reynold R. Maxwell
6780039301
402 B


Keith J. Gurney
6780098901
402 C


Dawna L. Watts
6780092701
403 A


Rodney I. Davis
6780051701
403 B


Louisa A. Gray
6780025701
403 C


Mary A. Moore
6780018102
404 A


Ella P. Stevens
6780088201
404 B


Robert S. Tait
6780047901
405 A


Mark A. Davis
6780031901
405 B


Kirk A. Ritchie
6780102801
405 C


Timothy Derrick
6780003201
406 A


Charlotte Angus
6780114101
406 B


Cora E. Aksidan
6780000102
406 C




Tenants of LVG Rental and Multi-Family Units are subject to
change as permanent housing is obtained.








Appendix C-7

ANGLING GUIDE LICENCES, TRAPLINE LICENCES

AND GUIDE OUTFITTER LICENCE WHOLLY OR

PARTIALLY ON NISG̱A'A LANDS






Waters


Licence No.





Dragon Lake

203793

203794

202438



Ginlulak Creek

203796

203815



Iknouk River
203811


Ishkheenickh River

206180

203811

203791

203793

203751

203800

202468

203772

203796

203753

202494

202438



Kincolith River

206180

203811

203791



Nass River

203758

206180

202471

203791

203783

203803

202426

202427

203800

203752

203756

202428

202446

203805

202494



Tchitin River
203815


Tseax River

202471

203791

203793

203783

203751

202426

202427

203752

203756

203796

202428

202461

203807

202438

203815



Zolzap Creek
203815







Traplines





614T 007
614T 062
614T 071
615T 024


614T 008
614T 063
614T 072
615T 025


614T 011
614T 064
614T 073
615T 027


614T012
614T 065
614T 074
615T 044


614T 013
614T 066
614T 075
616T 001


614T 014
614T 067
614T 076
616T 002


614T 015
614T 068
614T 077
616T 003


614T 060
614T 069
614T 104
616T004


614T 061
614T 070
615T 023
616T 005





616T 015







Guide Outfitter Licence





610G 001








APPENDIX D

NISG̱A'A FEE SIMPLE LANDS

OUTSIDE NISG̱A'A LANDS







Appendix D-1



Map of Category A and B Lands





Appendix D-2



Category A Lands





Appendix D-3



Sketches of Category A Lands





Appendix D-4




List of estates, interests, charges, mineral claims,
encumbrances, licences, and permits located on Category A Lands






Appendix D-5




Sketches showing the location of active mineral claims on
Category A Lands






Appendix D-6



Category B Lands





Appendix D-7



Sketches of Category B Lands





Appendix D-8




List of estates, interests, charges, mineral claims,
encumbrances, licences and permits located on Category B Lands








Appendix D-1

MAP OF CATEGORY A AND B LANDS









Link to Large Map





Appendix D-2

CATEGORY A LANDS:



listing of former Nisg̱a'a Indian reserves outside of Nisg̱a'a Lands, and
extensions, the extensions of which after survey will have an aggregate
area of not less than 1250 hectares, together with assigned
District Lot designations and metes and bounds descriptions.





Map Ref:


I.R. #


I.R. Name


District Lot Designations

(assigned or existing)



103J.080
15

Kinnamax

(X'anmas)

Extension of 4 +/- ha


District Lot 8067,

Range 5, Coast District

(the former I.R. and extension are to be one parcel)





Extension site description:


Commencing at the southeast corner of former Kinnamax I.R. 15, with said
southeast corner being a point on the northerly natural boundary of
Kwinamass Bay;


thence northerly along the easterly boundary of former Kinnamax I.R. 15
a distance of 54 +/- metres;


thence on a bearing of 104°00'00" a distance of 315 +/- metres;


thence on a bearing of 77°00'00" a distance of 240 +/- metres;


thence on a bearing of 166°00'00" a distance of 70 +/- metres to the
northerly natural boundary of Kwinamass Bay;


thence southwesterly and northwesterly along the northerly natural
boundary of Kwinamass Bay to the point of commencement.


The total area for this extension is to be 4 +/- hectares.





Map Ref:


I.R. #


I.R. Name


District Lot Designations

(assigned or existing)



103J.080
16

Talahaat


(T
x
aala
x
hatkw)


Extension of 46 +/- ha


District Lot 8068,

Range 5, Coast District

District Lot 8073,

Range 5, Coast District





Extension site description:


Commencing at the northwest corner of former Talahaat I.R. No. 16;


thence southerly along the westerly boundary of said former I.R. to the
northeast corner of District Lot 3970, being Knames I.R. No. 45;


thence westerly along the northerly boundary of District Lot 3970
produced to the right natural boundary of Kwinamass River;


thence in a general westerly direction along the right natural boundary
of Kwinamass River to a point thereon, with said point lying due West of
the northwest corner of District Lot 3970, a distance of 1300 +/-
metres; thence due West, a distance of 144 +/- metres;


thence due North a distance of 419 +/- metres to the southerly boundary
of the road; thence in a general easterly direction along the southerly
boundary of the road, including the works, to the northerly prolongation
of the westerly boundary of former Talahaat I.R. No. 16;


thence southerly to and along the westerly boundary of former Talahaat
I.R. 16 to the point of commencement.


The total area for this extension is to be 46 +/- hectares.





Map Ref:


I.R. #


I.R. Name


District Lot Designations

(assigned or existing)




103O.070&

103O.080

17

Georgie

(X'uji)


District Lot 7221,

Cassiar District



103P.091
19

Scamakounst

(Sgamagunt)


District Lot 7222,

Cassiar District



103P.021
20

Kinmelit

(Gwinmilit)


District Lot 7223,

Cassiar District



103P.021
21

Slooks

(Xlukwskw)


District Lot 7224,

Cassiar District



103P.022
22

Staqoo

(Ksi Xts'at'kw)

Extension of 8 +/- ha


District Lot 7226,

Cassiar District

District Lot 7247,

Cassiar District





Extension site description:


Commencing at the northeast corner of former Staqoo I.R. No. 22;


thence northerly along the northerly prolongation of the easterly
boundary of said former I.R., a distance of 345 +/- metres;


thence westerly a distance of 239 +/- metres along a line that runs
parallel to the northerly boundary of said former I.R. to the easterly
natural boundary of Observatory Inlet;


thence southerly along the easterly natural boundary of Observatory
Inlet to the northwest corner of former Staqoo I.R. No. 22, being a
point thereon,


thence easterly along the northerly boundary of said former Staqoo I.R.
No. 22 to the point of commencement.


The total area of this extension is to be 8+/- hectares.





Map Ref:


I.R. #


I.R. Name


District Lot Designations

(assigned or existing)



103P.032
23

Ktsinet

(Xts'init)

Extensions consisting

of 3 parcels of

158 +/-ha in total


District Lot 7227,

Cassiar District

District Lots 7228 to 7230

(inclusive), Cassiar District





Extension site descriptions:


Firstly: Commencing at the southwest corner of former Ktsinet I.R. No.
23;


thence easterly along the southerly boundary of said former I.R. a
distance of 450 +/- metres;


thence southerly along a line drawn perpendicular to said southerly
boundary for a distance of 220 +/- metres;


thence westerly a distance of 360 +/- metres along a line drawn parallel
to said southerly boundary to the easterly natural boundary of Paddy
Passage;


thence northerly along the easterly natural boundary of Paddy Passage to
the point of commencement;


Secondly: That part of Perry Peninsula lying to the south of the
westerly prolongation of the most northerly boundary of former Ktsinet
I.R. No. 23 and to the north and west of former Ktsinet I.R. No. 23,
excepting thereout Perry Spit; and


Thirdly: Commencing at the northeast corner of former Ktsinet I.R. No.
23;

thence due East a distance of 226 +/- metres;

thence due North a distance of 1566 +/- metres; thence due East a
distance of 373 +/- metres;


thence on a bearing of 43°43'00" a distance of 500 +/- metres;


thence on a bearing of 6°54'00" a distance of 220 +/- metres, more or
less to the southeasterly natural boundary of Bessie Lake;


thence southwesterly, westerly and northeasterly along southerly and
westerly natural boundaries of Bessie Lake to a point on said westerly
natural boundary lying 200 metres due North of the most southerly point
of Bessie Lake;


thence due West to the easterly natural boundary of Observatory Inlet;


thence in a general southerly direction along the easterly natural
boundary of Observatory Inlet to the northwest corner of former Ktsinet
I.R. No. 23, being a point thereon;


thence easterly along the most northerly boundary of former Ktsinet I.R.
No. 23 to the northeast corner thereof, being also the point of
commencement.


The total area for the three sites is 154 +/- hectares, comprised of 8
hectares, 23 hectares, and 123 hectares, respectively.





Map Ref:


I.R. #


I.R. Name


District Lot Designations

(assigned or existing)



103P.043
24

Gitzault

(Gits'oohl)


Firstly: Assigned Parcel "A" of Lot 14 (Explanatory Plan 1554)
Block 1 of Lot 931, Cassiar District, Plan 1515;







Secondly: Those portions of Lots 16 and 17 of Block 1 of Lot 931,
Cassiar District, Plan 1515 lying and being to the West of the
lane on said Plan 1515;







Thirdly: Lots 14, 15 and Lot 18 of Block 1; Lot 2 of Block 2; Lots
1 to 3 (inclusive) of Block 3; Lots 1 to 6 (inclusive) of Block 4;
Lot 8 of Block 5; Lots 2 to 8 (inclusive) and Lot 16 of Block 6;
Lots 6 to 11 (inclusive) of Block 7; Lots 1 to 7 (inclusive) of
Block 9; Lot 2 of Block 10; Blocks 11 to 24 (inclusive); Lots 1 to
11 (inclusive) of Block 25; Lots 1 to 22 (inclusive) of Block 26;
Lots 1 to 22 (inclusive) of Block 27; Lots 1 to 11 (inclusive) of
Block 28; Blocks 30 to 44 (inclusive); all of Lot 931, Cassiar
District, Plan 1515, except thereout from said Lot 14 of Block 1
Explanatory Plan 1554; and







Fourthly: Block A of Lot 931, Cassiar District, being the bed of
the Kitsault River








Map Ref:


I.R. #


I.R. Name


District Lot Designations

(assigned or existing)



103P.042
26

Tackuan

(T'ak'uwaan)
Extensions consisting

of 2 parcels of

68 +/- ha in total


District Lot 7231,

Cassiar District;

District Lots 7232 and 7233,

Cassiar District





Extension site descriptions:


Firstly: Commencing at the southeast corner of former Tackuan I.R. No.
26, being a point on the westerly natural boundary of Hastings Arm;


thence westerly along the southerly boundary of former Tachuan I.R. No.
26, a distance of 190 +/- metres;


thence southerly along a line drawn perpendicular to the southerly
boundary of former Tachuan I.R. No. 26 for a distance of 393 +/- metres;


thence easterly along a line drawn parallel to the southerly boundary of
former Tachuan I.R. No. 26 a distance of 100 +/- metres, more or less to
the westerly natural boundary of Hastings Arm;


thence northerly along the westerly natural boundary of Hastings Arm to
the point of commencement; and


Secondly: Commencing at the northeast corner of former Tackuan I.R. No.
26, being a point on the westerly natural boundary of Hastings Arm;


thence westerly along the northerly boundary of former Tackuan I.R. No.
26 a distance of 590 +/- metres;


thence northerly along a line drawn perpendicular to said northerly
boundary for a distance of 1118 +/- metres;


thence easterly for a distance of 340 +/- metres along a line drawn
parallel to the northerly boundary of former Tackuan I.R. No. 26 to the
westerly natural boundary of Hastings Arm;


thence in a general southerly direction along said natural boundary to
the northeast corner of former Tackuan I.R. No. 26, being a point
thereon, and also being the point of commencement.


The total area for the two sites is 68 +/- hectares, comprised of 5 +/-
hectares and 63 +/- hectares, respectively.





Map Ref:


I.R. #


I.R. Name


District Lot Designations

(assigned or existing)



103P.042
26A

Tackuan

(T'ak'uwaan)


District Lot 5433,

Cassiar District



103P.061
27

Kshwan

(Ks wan)

Extensions consisting

of 2 parcels of

165 +/- ha in total


District Lot 7225,

Cassiar District

District Lots 7252 and 7253,

Cassiar District





Extension site descriptions:


Firstly: Commencing at the most westerly southwest corner of former
Kshwan I.R. No. 27;


thence southerly along the southerly prolongation of the westerly
boundary of former Kshwan I.R. No. 27 a distance of 972 +/- metres;


thence easterly along a line drawn perpendicular to the previously
described course for a distance of 45 +/- metres to the westerly natural
boundary of Hastings Arm;


thence northerly along said natural boundary to the southerly boundary
of former Kshwan I.R. No. 27;


thence in a general westerly direction along the southerly boundary of
former Kshwan I.R. No. 27 to the most westerly southwest corner thereof,
being also the point of commencement; and


Secondly: Commencing at the northeast corner of District 4075, being
former Kshwan I.R. No. 27 A;


thence easterly along the easterly prolongation of the northerly
boundary of said District Lot 4075, a distance of 320 +/- metres;


thence southerly a distance of 1766 +/- metres along a line drawn
parallel to the easterly boundary of District Lot 4075;


thence easterly a distance of 348 +/- metres along a line drawn
perpendicular to the previously described course;


thence southerly a distance of 1709+/- metres along a line drawn
parallel to the easterly boundary of District Lot 4075;


thence westerly a distance of 338 +/- metres along a line drawn
perpendicular to the previously described course to the easterly natural
boundary of Hastings Arm;


thence in a general northerly direction along said natural boundary to
the southerly boundary of District Lot 4075;


thence easterly and northerly along the southerly and easterly
boundaries of District Lot 4075 to the northeast corner thereof, being
also the point of commencement.


The total area for the two sites is 162 +/- hectares, comprised of 11
+/- hectares and 151 +/- hectares, respectively.


(Note: This site is subject to a Statutory right of way.)





Map Ref:


I.R. #


I.R. Name


District Lot Designations

(assigned or existing)



103P.062
27A

Kshwan

(Ks wan)


District Lot 4075,

Cassiar District



103I.083
38

Lakbelak


(La
x
Bila
k
)



District Lot 6453,

Range 5 Coast District



103I.082
39

Lakbelak Creek


(La
x
Bila
k
)



District Lot 6455,

Range 5 Coast District



103I.072
40

Lakbelak Lake


(La
x
Bila
k
)



District Lot 6454,

Range 5 Coast District



103O/1E
42

Dogfish Bay

(Xmaat'in)

Extension consisting of

3 parcels of 700 +/- ha

in total


District Lots 628A and 5432,

Cassiar District

District Lots 627, 628, and 7234, all

Cassiar District





Extension site descriptions:


Firstly: District Lots 627 and 628, Cassiar District; and


Secondly: Commencing at a point on the northerly boundary of District
Lot 5432, Cassiar District, being the former Dogfish Bay I.R. No. 42,
1273 +/- metres of District Lot 5432) from the northeast corner of said
District Lot;

thence due North a distance of 1600 +/- metres;
thence due East a distance of 1484 +/- metres;
thence on a bearing of 31°15'00" 1629 +/- metres;

thence on a bearing of 91°20'00" a distance of 989 +/- metres;


thence on a bearing of 179°20'00" a distance of 497 +/-metres;


thence on a bearing of 212°28'00" a distance of 3902 +/- metres to the
easterly boundary of District Lot 5432, Cassiar District;


thence northerly and westerly along the easterly and northerly
boundaries of District Lot 5432 to the point of commencement.


The total area of the two sites is 700 +/- hectares, comprised of 98 +/-
hectares and 602 +/- hectares, respectively.





Map Ref:


I.R. #


I.R. Name


District Lot Designations

(assigned or existing)



103O/1E
43

Pearse Island

(Wil Milit)

Extension of 108 +/- ha


District Lot 5431,

Cassiar District

District Lot 7235,

Cassiar District





Extension site description:


Commencing at a point on the westerly boundary of District Lot 5431,
Cassiar District, being former Pearse Island I.R. No. 43, 900 +/- metres
from the southwest corner of District Lot 5431;


thence on a bearing of 265°24'00" a distance of 1638 +/- metres;


thence due North a distance of 100 +/- metres, more or less, to the
natural boundary of Pearse Canal;


thence in a general easterly direction along the natural boundary of
Pearse Canal to Tree Point;


thence in a general southerly direction along the westerly natural
boundary of Wiskey Bay to the northwest corner of District Lot 5431,
being a point thereon;


thence southerly along the westerly boundary of District Lot 5431,
Cassiar District to the point of commencement.

The total area of the site is 108 +/- hectares.



Appendix D-3

SKETCHES OF CATEGORY A LANDS



Sketch 1
Former Indian Reserve No. 15 "Kinnamax" (X'anmas) and extension







Sketch 2
Former Indian Reserve No. 16 "Talahaat" (T
x
aala
x
hatkw) and extension







Sketch 3
Former Indian Reserve No. 17 "Georgie" (X'uji)







Sketch 4
Former Indian Reserve No. 19 "Scamakounst" (Sgamagunt)







Sketch 5
Former Indian Reserve No. 20 "Kinmelit" (Gwinmilit)







Sketch 6
Former Indian Reserve No. 21 "Slooks" (Xlukwskw)







Sketch 7
Former Indian Reserve No. 22 "Staqoo" (Ksi Xts'at'kw)







Sketch 8
Former Indian Reserve No. 23 "Ktsinet" (Xts'init) and extensions







Sketch 9
Former Indian Reserve No. 24 "Gitzault" (Gits'oohl)







Sketch 10
Former Indian Reserves No. 26 and 26A "Tackuan" (T'ak'uwaan) and
extensions







Sketch 11
Former Indian Reserves No. 27 and 27A "Kshwan" (Ks wan) and extensions







Sketch 12
Former Indian Reserve No. 38 "Lakbelak" (La
x
Bila
k
)







Sketch 13
Former Indian Reserve No. 39 "Lakbelak Creek" (La
x
Bila
k
)







Sketch 14
Former Indian Reserve No. 40 "Lakbelak Lake" (La
x
Bila
k
)







Sketch 15
Former Indian Reserve No. 42 "Dogfish Bay" (Xmaat'in) and extension







Sketch 16
Former Indian Reserve No. 43 "Pearse Island" (Wil Milit) and extension









Appendix D-4

LIST OF ESTATES, INTERESTS, CHARGES,

MINERAL CLAIMS, ENCUMBRANCES, LICENCES

AND PERMITS AFFECTING CATEGORY A LANDS






Map Ref:


Site


Encumbrance



103P.042

Extensions to former Tackuan

I.R. No. 26 to be surveyed as

District Lots 7232 and 7233,

Cassiar District.


Mineral Claims

(as listed below)










Tenure No.




Tenure Name




Tenure Type




252013
CAR 3
15 unit claim (3N x E)


252033
ANY 3
12 unit claim (4S x 3E)


252035
ANY 5
15 unit claim (5S x 2E)







Map Ref:


Site


Encumbrance



103P.061, 062

Former Kshwan I.R. No. 27 and

former Kshwan I.R. No. 27A, being

surveyed as District Lots 7225 and

4075, Cassiar District, respectively.


Extension to Former Kshwan I.R.

No. 27A to be surveyed as District

Lot 7252, Cassiar District.


Statutory Right of Way under

Section 218 of the
Land Title Act





Mineral Claims

(as listed below)










Tenure No.




Tenure Name




Tenure Type




323599
MAST 1
Two post claim


323600
MAST 2
Two post claim


323601
MAST 3
Two post claim


323602
MAST 4
Two post claim



All within Cassiar Land District and Skeena Mining
Division.











Appendix D-5

SKETCHES SHOWING THE LOCATION OF ACTIVE

MINERAL CLAIMS ON CATEGORY A LANDS



Sketch 1
Mineral Claims in vicinity of former Indian Reserve No.s 26 and 26A
"Tackuan"; and







Sketch 2
Mineral Claims in vicinity of former Indian Reserve No.s 27 and 27A
"Kshwan".









Appendix D-6

CATEGORY B LANDS:



listing of parcels of unsurveyed Crown land outside of Nisg̱a'a Lands,
which after survey will have an aggregate area of not less than 250
hectares, together with assigned District Lot designations and metes and
bounds descriptions. (See Appendix D-1 for general location of sites.)





1)


Hattie Island

Described as being:


District Lot 7236, Cassiar District.

All of Hattie Island.

The total area of this site is to be 11+/- hectares.

(Note: The survey of District Lot 3829, Cassiar District, is to be
canceled.)




2)


Fords Cove

Described as


District Lot 7237, Cassiar District.

Firstly: Commencing at a post which is placed on the natural
boundary of Fords Cove at its northerly limits;

thence due East a distance of 77 +/- metres;

thence due South a distance of 453 +/- metres;

thence due West a distance of 505 +/- metres, more or less, to the
easterly natural boundary of Portland Canal;

thence in a general northeasterly direction along the easterly
natural boundary of Portland Canal to the point of commencement;
and

Secondly: Green Islets.

The total area of this site is to be 9 +/- hectares.




3)


Winter Inlet

Described as


District Lot 8069, Range 5 Coast District.

Commencing at a point on the southwesterly natural boundary of
Winter Inlet marked by a blazed tree with flagging (approximate
latitude 54°48'53" and longitude 130°26'45");

thence on a bearing of 243°00'00" a distance of 100 +/- metres;

thence on a bearing of 330°00'00" a distance of 970.+/- metres;

thence on a bearing of 63°00'00" a distance of 285 +/- metres,
more or less, to the southwesterly natural boundary of Winter
Inlet;

thence in a general southeasterly direction along said natural
boundary of Winter Inlet to the point of commencement.

The total area of this site is to be 10.5 +/- hectares.




4)


Nasoga Gulf

Described as being


District Lot 104, Range 5 Coast District.

that portion of District Lot 104, Range 5 Coast District, which
lies to the south of a line drawn parallel to and 87 metres
perpendicularly distant southerly from the northerly boundary of
said district lot.

The total area of this site is to be 6 +/- hectares.

(This is to be a resurvey of District Lot 104; the two creeks
passing through this parcel are subject to riparian corridors.)




5)


Echo Cove

Described as


Block A of District Lots 3 and 14, Range 5 Coast District.

Commencing at the northwest corner of District Lot 3, Range 5
Coast District, being a point on the westerly natural boundary of
Nass Harbour;

thence southerly along the westerly boundary of District Lot 3 a
distance of 714 +/- metres;

thence on a bearing of 250°08'00" a distance of 352 +/- metres;

thence on a bearing of 183°16'00" a distance of 100 +/- metres,
more or less, to the northerly natural boundary of Echo Cove;

thence easterly and in a general southwesterly direction along the
northerly and southeasterly natural boundaries of Echo Cove to the
northwest corner of District Lot 15, being a point on said natural
boundary;

thence easterly along the northerly boundary of District Lot 15
and continuing easterly along the southerly boundary of District
Lot 3 a total distance of 326 +/- metres;

thence northeasterly in a straight line to the northeast corner of
District Lot 3, being a point on the natural boundary of Nass Bay;

thence in a general northwesterly direction along the natural
boundary of Nass Bay following the general trend of the natural
boundary of Nass Bay for a distance of 340 +/- metres;

thence on a bearing of 273°30'00" a distance of 140 +/- metres

thence on a bearing of 3°15'00" a distance of 322 +/- metres, more
or less, to the easterly natural boundary of Nass Harbour;

thence in general southerly, westerly and northerly directions
along the easterly, southerly and westerly natural boundaries of
Nass Harbour to the northwest corner of District Lot 3, being a
point on the westerly natural boundary of Nass Harbour, and being
also the point of commencement.

The total area of this site is to be 40 +/- hectares.

(This site is subject to riparian corridors.)




6)


Kinskuch Lake

Described as


District Lot 7238, Cassiar District.

Commencing at a post which is flagged and blazed set on the
westerly natural boundary of Kinskuch Lake (approximate latitude
55°40'15" and 129°23'16";

thence on a bearing of 239°50'00" a distance of 195 +/- metres;

thence on a bearing of 200°00'00" a distance of 487 +/- metres;

thence on a bearing of 181°41'00" a distance of 107 +/- metres,
more or less, to the westerly natural boundary of Kinskuch Lake;

thence in a general northeasterly direction along the westerly
natural boundary of Kinskuch Lake to the point of commencement.

The total area of this site is to be 7 +/- hectares.




7)


Jade Lake

Described as


District Lot 7239, Cassiar District.

Commencing at a point on the southerly natural boundary of Jade
Lake marked by a blazed tree (approximate latitude 55°44'14" and
longitude 129°24'33");

thence due South a distance of 140 +/- metres;

thence due West a distance of 100 +/- metres;

thence due North a distance of 109 +/- metres, more or less, to
the southerly natural boundary of Jade Lake;

thence in a general easterly direction along the southerly natural
boundary of Jade Lake to the point of commencement.

The total area for this site is to be 1 +/- hectare.




8)


Kitsault Lake

Described as


District Lot 7240, Cassiar District.

Commencing at a point on the easterly natural boundary of Kitsault
Lake marked by a blazed tree (approximate latitude 55°45'34" and
longitude 129°28'48");

thence southwesterly in a straight line a distance of 224 +/-
metres to the easterly natural boundary of Kitsault Lake;

thence westerly, northeasterly and easterly along said easterly
natural boundary of Kitsault Lake to the point of commencement.

The total area for this site is to be 2 +/- hectares.




9)


Kwinageese Lake

Described as being


District Lots 7245 and 7246, Cassiar District

Two islands in Kwinageese lake: the first being 5.2 +/- hectares
in size; and the second being 0.5 +/- hectares in size.

The total area for this site is to be 6+/- hectares.




10)


Ohl Creek

Described as


District Lot 7241, Cassiar District.

Commencing at a point on the right natural boundary of Ohl Creek a
distance of 170 +/- metres northeasterly along said natural
boundary from the intersection of said natural boundary with the
easterly natural boundary of Hastings Arm;

thence due North a distance of 76 +/- metres;

thence due West a distance of 161 +/- metres, more or less, to the
easterly natural boundary of Hastings Arm;

thence southerly along the easterly natural boundary of Hastings
Arm to the right natural boundary of Ohl Creek;

thence northeasterly along said natural boundary to the point of
commencement.

The total area for this site is to be 2 +/- hectares.

(This site is subject to a riparian corridor.)




11)


Meziadin Junction

Described as


District Lot 7242, Cassiar District.

Commencing at the intersection of the northerly boundary of
Stewart-Cassiar Highway with the northerly prolongation of the
easterly boundary of District Lot 1100, Cassiar District;

thence easterly along the northerly boundary of Stewart-Cassiar
Highway a distance of 120 +/- metres;

thence northerly along a line drawn perpendicular to the northerly
boundary of Stewart-Cassiar Highway a distance of 100 +/- metres;

thence westerly along a line drawn parallel to the northerly
boundary of Stewart-Cassiar Highway a distance of 230 +/- metres;

thence southerly along a line drawn perpendicular to the
previously described course a distance of 70 +/- metres;

thence easterly along a line drawn parallel to the Stewart-Cassiar
Highway a distance of 110 +/- metres;

thence southerly in a straight line to the point of commencement.

The total area for this site is to be 2+/- hectares.




12)


Meziadin Lake

Described as


District Lot 7244, Cassiar District.

Firstly: Commencing at a post which is flagged and blazed on the
easterly natural boundary of Meziadin Lake (approximate latitude
56°02'04" and longitude 129°13'00");

thence due East a distance of 177 +/- metres;

thence on a bearing of 150°53' 00" a distance of 2001 +/- metres;

thence due South a distance of 647 +/- metres;

thence on a bearing of 150°53'00" a distance of 610 +/- metres;

thence due South a distance of 760 +/- metres

thence on a bearing of 150°53'00" a distance of 927 +/- metres;

thence due West a distance of 584 +/- metres;

thence on a bearing of 330°47'00" a distance of 1186 +/- metres;

thence due East a distance of 130 +/- metres, more or less, to the
southwesterly natural boundary of Meziadin Lake;

thence southeasterly and in a general northerly direction along
the southwesterly and easterly natural boundaries of Meziadin Lake
to the point of commencement; and

Secondly: The small island 1 +/- hectare in size in the vicinity
of the northwest corner of District Lot 2447, Cassiar District.

The total area for this site is to be 137.5 hectares, comprised of
136.5 +/- hectares and 1 +/- hectares, respectively.

(Note: Existing District Lots will be canceled.)




13)


Amoth Lake

Described as


District Lot 8070, Range 5 Coast District.

Commencing at the most northerly point on the natural boundary of
Amoth Lake;

thence due East a distance of 140 +/- metres;

thence due South a distance of 540 +/- metres, more or less, to
the easterly natural boundary of Amoth Lake;

thence in a general northwesterly direction along the natural
boundary of Amoth Lake to the point of commencement.

The total area for this site is to be 7 +/- hectares.

(This site is subject to a riparian corridor.)




14)


Amoth Headwaters Lake

Described as


District Lot 8071, Range 5, Coast District.

Commencing at the intersection of the left natural boundary of
Amoth Creek with the northerly natural boundary of Amoth
Headwaters Lake;

thence due North a distance of 100 +/- metres;

thence due East a distance of 273 +/- metres;

thence due South a distance of 276 +/- metres;

thence due West a distance of 100 +/- metres, more or less to the
easterly natural boundary of Amoth Headwaters Lake;

thence in a general northwesterly direction along the easterly and
northerly natural boundaries of Amoth Headwaters Lake to the point
of commencement.

The total area for this site is to be 4 +/- hectares.

(This site is subject to a riparian corridor.)




15)


Grizzly Bear Lake

Described as


District Lot 7243, Cassiar District

Commencing at the intersection of the left natural boundary of an
unnamed creek with the southerly boundary of Stewart-Cassiar
Highway;

thence southerly along the left natural boundary of said unnamed
creek a distance of 60 +/- metres

thence on a bearing of 123°00'00" a distance of 360 +/- metres to
the westerly natural boundary of Grizzly Bear Lake;

thence northerly and easterly along the westerly and northerly
natural boundaries of Grizzly Bear Lake to the southerly boundary
of Stewart-Cassiar Highway;

thence westerly along the southerly boundary of Stewart-Cassiar
Highway to the point of commencement.

The total area for this site is to be 5 +/- hectares.







Appendix D-7

SKETCHES OF CATEGORY B LANDS:



Sketch 1
Hattie Island







Sketch 2
Fords Cove







Sketch 3
Winter Inlet







Sketch 4
Nasoga Gulf







Sketch 5
Echo Cove







Sketch 6
Kinskuch Lake







Sketch 7
Jade Lake







Sketch 8
Kitsault Lake







Sketch 9
Kwinageese Lake







Sketch 10
Ohl Creek Site







Sketch 11
Meziadin Junction







Sketch 12
Meziadin Lake







Sketch 13
Amoth Lake







Sketch 14
Amoth Headwaters Lake







Sketch 15
Grizzly Bear Lake









Appendix D-8

LIST OF ESTATES, INTERESTS, CHARGES,

MINERAL CLAIMS, ENCUMBRANCES, LICENCES

AND PERMITS LOCATED ON CATEGORY B LANDS.






Map Ref:


Site


Encumbrance



103P. 021
Hattie Island

Licence of Occupation for a Navigation Light



103J. 090
Nasoga Gulf

Section 219 of the
Land Title Act
covenant.



103I. 091
Echo Cove

Section 219 of the
Land Title Act
covenant.



103P. 052
Ohl Creek

Section 219 of the
Land Title Act
covenant.



103I. 072,073
Amoth Lake

Section 219 of the
Land Title Act
covenant and a health covenant.



103I. 072
Amoth Lake Headwaters

Section 219 of the
Land Title Act
covenant and a health covenant.








APPENDIX E

MAP OF NISG̱A'A COMMERCIAL

RECREATION TENURE




Map showing operating areas of the

Nisg̱a'a Commercial Recreation Tenure








Link to Large Map






APPENDIX F

HERITAGE SITES AND

KEY GEOGRAPHIC FEATURES







Appendix F-1




Sites of cultural and historic significance to the Nisg̱a'a
Nation to be designated as provincial heritage sites






Appendix F-2




Names to be recorded in the British Columbia Geographic Names
Information System






Appendix F-3




Place names to be changed by British Columbia








Appendix F-1

SITES OF CULTURAL AND HISTORIC SIGNIFICANCE

TO THE NISG̱A'A NATION TO BE DESIGNATED AS

PROVINCIAL HERITAGE SITES






Map Ref:


Site


Description



103P. 032

Ksi Galsgiist

(Kelskiist Creek)


Site is at the mouth of the Kelskiist (Kelskiist Creek) Creek and
is approximately 1+/- hectares in size.



104A. 052

Treaty Creek


Site is an area of 1 +/- hectares surrounding a large rock outcrop
found along the right natural boundary of Treaty Creek.



104H. 015

Magoonhl Lisims

(Nass Lake)


Site is a small peninsula located on the east side of Nass Lake
and is 0.75 +/- hectares in size.



103P. 057


G
enim Sgeenix


(Grease Trail)


A section of 1 +/- hectares along the historic Grease Trail where
the trail crossed the Cranberry River and where the trail is
preserved in an undisturbed state.



103P. 025


G
enim Sgeenix


(Grease Trail)


At the request of Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government/Nisg̱a'a Nation,
British Columbia will designate as a provincial heritage site a
second section of the historic Grease Trail near the site of
Gitlax'aws (Grease Harbour) on Nisg̱a'a Lands.







Appendix F-2

NAMES TO BE RECORDED IN THE BRITISH COLUMBIA

GEOGRAPHIC NAMES INFORMATION SYSTEM.






Map Ref:


Current Name


Nisg̱a'a Name



103P. 014
Canyon City
Gitwinksihlkw


103P. 003
Greenville

Lax
g
alts'ap



103I. 091
Kincolith

Gin
g
olx



103P. 014
Vetter Peak

X
hlawit



103P. 056
Kinskuch River

Ksi Gin
g
sox



103P. 064
Kinskuch Lake

T'aam Gin
g
sox



103P. 025
Grease Harbour (village)

Gitla
x
ksiip



103P. 002
Fishery Bay

Ts'im
K
'ol'hl Da oots'ip



103P. 025
Tseax River
Ksi Sii Aks


103P. 035
Kwinatahl River
Ksi Gwinhat'al


103P. 056
Kiteen River
Ksi Gahlt'in


103P. 025
Grease Harbour (fishing site)
Ts'im Anwiihlist


103P. 014
Zolzap River
Ksi Ts'oohl Ts'ap


103P. 025
Seaskinnish River

Ksi S
g
asginist



103P. 025
New Aiyansh

Wii La
x
K
ap



103P. 025
Shumal River

Ks
g
a'maal



103I. 092
Ishkeenickh River

Ksi Hlgin
x



103P. 003
Ksedin Creek
Ksi Mat'in


103 J.080
Kwinamass River
Ksi X'anmas


103J. 100
Unnamed Mountain
Xk'aat'aapgwit


103P. 001
Scowban Creek (not official)

Ksi S
g
awban



103I. 091
Kincolith River

Ksi Gin
g
olx



103P. 001
Iknouk River
Xnukw


103I. 091
Burton Creek
Ksgyukwsa'a


103J. 080
Kinnamax I.R. No. 15
X'anmas


103J. 080
Tahahaat I.R. No. 16

T
x
aala
x
hatkw



103O.070
Georgie I.R. No. 17
X'uji


103P. 091
Scamakounst I.R. No. 19

S
g
amagunt



103P. 021
Kinmelit I.R. No. 20
Gwinmilit


103P. 021
Slooks I.R. No. 21
Xlukwskw


103P. 022
Staqoo I.R. No. 22
Ksi Xts'at'kw


103P. 032
Ktsinet I.R. No. 23
Xts'init


103P. 043
Gitzault I.R. No. 24
Gits'oohl


103P. 042
Tackuan I.R.s No. 26 and No. 26A
T'ak'uwaan


103P. 061 and 062
Kshwan I.R.s No. 27 and No. 27A
Ks wan


103I. 083
Lakbelak I.R. No. 38

La
x
Bila
k



103I. 082
Lakbelak Creek I.R. No. 39

La
x
Bila
k



103I. 072
Lakbelak Lake I.R. No. 40

La
x
Bila
k



103O.010
Dogfish Bay I.R. No. 42
Xmaat'in


103O.010
Pearse Island I.R. No. 43
Wil Milit


103I. 091
Iceberg Bay

Ts'im S
g
alt



103P. 062
Mt. Fowler
K'ipmat'iskw


103P. 042 and 043
Alice Arm
K'alii Ts'im Gits'oohl


103J. 090
Nasoga Gulf

T'sim S
g
aawa'a



103P. 042
Hastings Arm
K'alii Kshwan


103I. 092
Nass River
K'alii Aksim Lisims


103P. 066
Kinskuch Peak
Sganisim Gingsox


103O.010
Portland Canal

K'alii
X
k'alaan



104A.004
Meziadin Lake
T'aam Mits'iiaadin


103P. 056
Cranberry River
Ksi W'iipdalks


104A.068
Muskaboo Creek
Ksi M'aas Gibuu


103I. 092
Red Bluff I.R. No. 88

La
x
Masgwit







Appendix F-3

PLACE NAMES TO BE CHANGED BY BRITISH COLUMBIA






Map Ref:


Current Name


Nisg̱a'a Name



103P. 014
Canyon City
Gitwinksihlkw


103P. 003
Greenville

Lax
g
alts'ap



103I. 091
Kincolith
Gingolx


103P. 014
Vetter Peak

X
hlawit



103P. 025
Grease Harbour (village)

Gitla
x
ksiip



103P. 002
Fishery Bay

Ts'im
K
'ol'hl Da oots'ip



103P. 025
Tseax River
Ksi Sii Aks


103P. 035
Kwinatahl River
Ksi Gwinhat'al


103P. 025
Grease Harbour (fishing site)
Ts'im Anwiihlist


103P. 014
Zolzap River
Ksi Ts'oohl Ts'ap


103P. 025
Seaskinnish River

Ksi S
g
asginist



103P. 025
New Aiyansh (old village site)

Wii La
x
K
ap



103P. 025
Shumal River
Ksga'maal


103I. 092
Ishkeenickh River

Ksi Hlgin
x



103P. 003
Ksedin Creek
Ksi Mat'in


103 J.080
Kwinamass River
Ksi X'anmas


103J. 100
Unnamed Mountain
Xk'aat'aapgwit


103P. 001
Scowban Creek (not official)

Ksi S
g
awban



103I. 091
Kincolith River

Ksi Gin
g
olx



103P. 001
Iknouk River
Xnukw


103I. 091
Burton Creek
Ksgyukwsa'a


103J. 080
Kinnamax I.R. No. 15
X'anmas


103J. 080
Tahahaat I.R. No. 16

T
x
aala
x
hatkw



103O.070
Georgie I.R. No. 17
X"uji


103P. 091
Scamakounst I.R. No. 19

S
g
amagunt



103P. 021
Kinmelit I.R. No. 20
Gwinmilit


103P. 021
Slooks I.R. No. 21
Xlukwskw


103P. 022
Staqoo I.R. No. 22
Ksi Xts' at'kw


103P. 032
Ktsinet I.R. No. 23
Xts'init


103P. 043
Gitzault I.R. No. 24
Gits'oohl


103P. 042
Tackuan I.R.s No. 26 & 26A
T' ak' uwaan


103P. 061 and 062
Kshwan I.R.s No. 27 & 27A
Ks wan


103I. 083
Lakbelak I.R. No. 38

La
x
Bila
k



103I. 082
Lakbelak Creek I.R. No. 39

La
x
Bila
k



103I. 072
Lakbelak Lake I.R. No. 40

La
x
Bila
k



103O.010
Dogfish Bay I.R. No. 42
Xmaat'in


103O.010
Pearse Island I.R. No. 43
Wil Milit







APPENDIX G

PARKS AND ECOLOGICAL RESERVE







Appendix G-1




Map and metes and bounds description of Anhluut'ukwsim Laxmihl
Angwinga'asanskwhl Nisg̱a'a (a.k.a. Nisg̱a'a Memorial Lava Bed
Park)






Appendix G-2




Map and metes and bounds description of Gingietl Creek
Ecological Reserve No. 115






Appendix G-3




Map and metes and bounds description of Bear Glacier Park








Appendix G-1

METES AND BOUNDS DESCRIPTION OF ANHLUUT'UKWSIM LA
X
MIHL ANGWINGA'ASANSKWHL NISG̱A'A



(a.k.a. Nisg̱a'a Memorial Lava Bed Park)


MAP








Link to Large Map



All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that land
or land covered by water lying below the present natural boundary,
situated in Cassiar District and lying within the following described
boundaries:


Commencing at the post set at the southeast corner of District Lot 1093,
being former Gwinaha Indian Reserve No. 44, with said post to be marked
#54;


thence northerly along the easterly boundary of District Lot 1093, being
former Gwinaha Indian Reserve No. 44, and continuing northerly along a
portion of the easterly boundary of former Gitwinksihlkw
(Kitwilluchsilt) Indian Reserve No. 7, passing through the post set at
the southeast corner thereof and to be marked number #53, to the post
set at the intersection of said easterly boundary with the left natural
boundary of Nass River, and with said post to be marked number #52;


thence in a generally northeasterly direction along said natural
boundary of Nass River to the southwest corner of District Lot 1094,
being former Amaral Indian Reserve No. 46 and 47 (undivided) and a point
on said natural boundary;


thence easterly and northerly along the southerly and easterly
boundaries of District Lot 1094, being former Amaral Indian Reserve No.
46 and 47 (undivided) to the southwest corner of former Amatal Indian
Reserve No. 6;


thence easterly and northerly along the southerly and easterly
boundaries of former Amatal Indian Reserve No. 6 to the left natural
boundary of Nass River, and being the river channel lying to the south
and east of former Amatal Indian Reserve No. 5;


thence in a general northeasterly direction along the said natural
boundary of Nass River to the southwest corner of District Lot 5287,
being former Quinogag Indian Reserve No. 61 and a point on said natural
boundary;


thence easterly and northerly along the southerly and easterly
boundaries of District Lot 5287, being former Quinogag Indian Reserve
No. 61, to the northeast corner thereof, being a point on the left
natural boundary of Nass River;


thence in a general northeasterly direction along said natural boundary
of Nass River to the left natural boundary of Tseax River;


thence southeasterly along the left natural boundary of Tseax River to a
point thereon, with said point lying on a bearing of 270° from the post
set at the southeast corner of District Lot 5275, being former
Ksilamisk Indian Reserve No. 89, and to be marked #51;


thence on a bearing of 90°, passing through the southeast corner of
District Lot 5275, being former Ksilamisk Indian Reserve No.89, to the
intersection with a line drawn parallel to and 60 metres
perpendicularly distant easterly from the right natural boundary of
Tseax River, and with said intersection to be marked by a post to be set
and numbered #50;


thence in a general southeasterly direction along said line drawn
parallel to, and 60 metres perpendicularly distant easterly from the
right natural boundary of Tseax River to the most westerly boundary of
former New Aiyansh Indian Reserve No. 1 as shown on Plan 65110 recorded
in the Canada Lands Surveys Records at Ottawa;


thence southerly along the westerly boundary of former New Aiyansh
Indian Reserve No. 1 to the northeast corner of Lot A of District Lot
4012, Plan 9176;


thence westerly along the northerly boundary of said Lot A to the
northwest corner thereof;


thence in a general southerly direction along the westerly boundary of
said Lot A to the southwest corner thereof, with a portion of the
westerly boundary of said Lot A being also the right natural boundary of
Tseax River and with said southwest corner being a point being a point
thereon;


thence easterly along the southerly boundary of said Lot A to its
intersection with a line drawn parallel to and 60 metres perpendicularly
distant easterly from the right natural boundary of Tseax River;


thence in a general southeasterly direction along said line drawn
parallel to, and 60 metres perpendicularly distant easterly from the
right natural boundary of Tseax River to the southerly prolongation of
the easterly boundary of District Lot 4014;


thence northerly to and along the easterly boundary of District Lot
4014, passing through the post set at the southeast corner thereof, and
to be marked as post number #49, to the intersection of said easterly
boundary with a line drawn parallel to and 600 metres perpendicularly
distant easterly from the centre line of Nisg̱a'a Highway (formerly Nass
Valley Road);


thence in a general southeasterly direction along said line drawn
parallel to and 600 metres perpendicularly distant easterly from the
centre line of Nisg̱a'a Highway (formerly Nass Valley Road), to the
middle line of Bubo Creek;


thence on a bearing of 176°, a distance of 2.700 kilometres;


thence on a bearing of 63°, a distance of 2.175 kilometres;


thence on a bearing of 53°, a distance of 1.175 kilometres, more or
less, to a post to be which is to be set on the southerly boundary of
the watershed of Bubo Creek;


thence on a bearing of 1°24'00", a distance of 3.087 kilometres;


thence on a bearing of 328°37'00", a distance of 1.160 kilometres;


thence on a bearing of 21°49'00", a distance of 1.286 kilometres to a
post set on the left natural boundary of a tributary of Eider Creek;


thence on a bearing of 323°47'00", a distance of 1.600 kilometres;


thence on a bearing of 288°06'00", a distance of 985 metres;


thence on a bearing of 15°45'00", a distance of 1.051 kilometres, more
or less, to post #47 which is to be set on the right natural boundary of
Fulmar Creek;


thence on a bearing of 294°00'00", a distance of 2.03 kilometres;


thence on a bearing of 62°01'00", a distance of 2.139 kilometres;


thence on a bearing of 1°48'00", a distance of 889 metres to a post
which is to be set and numbered #46;


thence on a bearing of 262°14'00", a distance of 2.106 kilometres;


thence on a bearing of 321°00'00", a distance of 805 metres;


thence on a bearing of 45°46'00", a distance of 857 metres;


thence on a bearing of 303°02'00", a distance of 247 metres;


thence on a bearing of 90°00'00", a distance of 1.80 kilometres,
more or less, to post number #45 which is to be set at the summit
of Mount Hoeft;


thence northeasterly in a straight line to the summit of Mount Priestly,
being a point on the easterly boundary of the watershed of Seaskinnish
Creek;


thence southerly along the easterly boundaries of the watersheds of
Seaskinnish Creek and Crater Creek to the southerly boundary of the
watershed of Crater Creek;


thence westerly along the southerly boundary of the watershed of Crater
Creek to a point thereon, with said point lying on a bearing of 0°, a
distance of 300 metres, more or less, from the most northerly fork
at the headwaters of Sterling Creek, with said fork being on an
approximate bearing of 90°, a distance of 5.50 kilometres, more or less,
from the confluence of Tumbling Creek with the easterly natural boundary
of Lava Lake;


thence on a bearing of 0° to the middle line of the most southerly main
tributary of the unnamed creek that flows northwesterly into Crater
Creek;


thence in a general northwesterly direction along the middle line of
said most southerly main tributary of the unnamed creek that flows
northwesterly into Crater Creek and continuing northwesterly along the
middle line of said unnamed creek to a point on a line drawn parallel to
and 400 metres perpendicularly distant southerly from the left
natural boundary of Crater Creek;


thence southwesterly in a straight line to the intersection of the
middle line of Jay Creek with the westerly boundary of Nisg̱a'a Highway
(formerly Nass Valley Road);


thence in a general southerly direction along said westerly boundary of
Nisg̱a'a Highway (formerly Nass Valley Road) to the 55th parallel of
North latitude (based on NAD 83 Datum);


thence westerly along said 55th parallel of North latitude to the left
natural boundary of Tseax River;


thence northwesterly in a straight line to a point on a line drawn on a
bearing of 270°, and 100 metres perpendicularly distant westerly
from, the most southerly point on the westerly natural boundary of the
West arm of Lava Lake;


thence in a general northerly direction along said line drawn parallel
to and 100 metres perpendicularly distant westerly from the
westerly natural boundary of the West arm of Lava Lake and continuing in
a general northerly direction along a line drawn parallel to and
100 metres perpendicularly distant westerly from the westerly
natural boundary of Lava Lake to the point of intersection with the
middle line of Aquila Creek;


thence westerly along the middle line of Aquila Creek to a point
thereon, with said point lying on a bearing of 180° from a post set on
the left natural boundary of Aquila Creek a distance of 953.7 metres
upstream from the confluence of Aquila Creek with the westerly natural
boundary of Lava Lake;

thence on a bearing of 0° to said post;

thence on a bearing of 3°29'37.75", a distance of 2.209 kilometres, more
or less, to the intersection with a line drawn on a bearing of 245° from
Pipe Post No. 31 set on the easterly side of the British Columbia Hydro
and Power Authority (B.C.H.&P.A.) transmission line right-of-way as
shown on Plan 5611, on deposit in the Land Title Office in Prince George
(formerly Prince Rupert);


thence on a bearing of 65° to a point on a line drawn parallel to and
400 metres perpendicularly distant westerly from the centre line of
Nisg̱a'a Highway (formerly Nass Valley Road);


thence in a general northwesterly direction along said line drawn
parallel to and 400 metres perpendicularly distant westerly from
the centre line of Nisg̱a'a Highway (formerly Nass Valley Road) to post
number #64 which is to be set at the intersection of the right natural
boundary of an unnamed creek that flows northeasterly into Tseax River
with said line drawn parallel to and 400 metres perpendicularly
distant southwesterly from the centre line of Nisg̱a'a Highway (formerly
Nass Valley Road);


thence on a bearing of 295°08'00", a distance of 2.48 kilometres;


thence on a bearing of 270°15'00", a distance of 1.25 kilometres;


thence on a bearing of 307°15'00", a distance of 2.500 kilometres, more
or less to post number #63 which is to be set on a bearing of 270°
from the southwest corner of District Lot 4013, Cassiar District;


thence on a bearing of 249°15'00", a distance of 2.35 kilometres, to a
post which is to be set and numbered #62;


thence on a bearing of 150°15'00", a distance of 500 metres, to a post
which is to be set and numbered #61;


thence on a bearing of 206°45'00", a distance of 1.083 kilometres;


thence on a bearing of 270°15'00", a distance of 2.277 kilometres, to a
post which is to be set and numbered #60;


thence on a bearing of 150°37'00", a distance of 497 metres;


thence on a bearing of 222°39'00", a distance of 654 metres to a post
which is to be set and numbered #59;


thence on a bearing of 248°32'00", a distance of 1.096 kilometres;


thence on a bearing of 276°14'00", a distance of 695 metres, more or
less, to post numbered #58 which is to be set on the left natural
boundary of Zolzap Creek;


thence in a general westerly direction along the left natural boundary
of Zolzap Creek to post numbered #57 which is to be set at the
intersection of said left natural boundary with the southerly boundary
of former Zaulzap Indian Reserve No. 29;


thence easterly and northerly along the southerly and easterly
boundaries of former Zaulzap Indian Reserve No. 29, passing through the
post set at the southeast corner thereof, and to be marked number #56,
to the post set at the southwest corner of District Lot 1093, being
former Gwinaha Indian Reserve No. 44, and to marked number #55;


thence easterly along the southerly boundary of District Lot 1093, being
former Gwinaha Indian Reserve No. 44 to the post set at the southeast
corner thereof, and to be marked post number #54, being the point of
commencement;

The whole containing approximately 17,893 hectares.



Appendix G-2

METES AND BOUNDS DESCRIPTION FOR GINGIETL CREEK ECOLOGICAL RESERVE NO.
115 SITUATED WITHIN NISG̱A'A LANDS



MAP








Link to Large Map



Map Ref: 103P.014 and 103P.024


That area known as Gingietl Creek Ecological Reserve No. 115 and more
particularly described as lying within the following boundaries:


Commencing at the northwest corner of that part of former Zaulzap Indian
Reserve No. 29 lying to the north of Nass River;


thence on an approximate bearing of 39°00'00", a distance of 2.066
kilometres, more or less, to post number #81 which is to be set on the
southeasterly boundary of the watershed of an unnamed creek that flows
in a general southwesterly direction into Nass River, with said post
being 0°00'00", a distance of 403 metres, more or less, from the most
westerly northwest corner of former Gitwinksihlkw Indian Reserve No. 7;


thence northeasterly along the southeasterly boundary of the watershed
of said unnamed creek to the southerly boundary of the watershed of
Shumal Creek;


thence in a general westerly direction along the southerly boundary of
the watershed of Shumal Creek to the easterly boundary of the watershed
of Gingietl Creek;


thence northerly and westerly along the easterly and northerly
boundaries of the watershed of Gingietl Creek and continuing westerly
along the northerly boundary of the watershed of an unnamed creek that
flows in a general southeasterly direction into Nass River to post
number #82 which is to be set thereon;


thence on a bearing of 158°38'00", a distance of 2.478 kilometres;


thence on a bearing of 154°51'00", a distance of 1.080 kilometres, more
or less, to post number #83 which is to be set on the right natural
boundary of Nass River;


thence in a general easterly direction along the right natural boundary
of Nass River to that part of the westerly boundary of former Zaulzap
Indian Reserve No. 29 lying to the north of Nass River;


thence northerly along that part of the westerly boundary of former
Zaulzap Indian Reserve No. 29 lying to the north of Nass River to the
northwest corner thereof, with said corner being the point of
commencement.




Appendix G-3

METES AND BOUNDS DESCRIPTION FOR THE

BOUNDARIES OF BEAR GLACIER PARK



(to be established as a Class "A" Provincial Park)


MAP








Link to Large Map



All that parcel or tract of Crown land, together with all that land or
land covered by water lying below the present natural boundary, lying
within the following described boundaries:


Commencing at the intersection of the southerly boundary of
Stewart-Cassiar Highway (Highway 37A) with the middle line of an unnamed
creek that flows southwesterly into Bear River, with said intersection
lying on a bearing of 101°15'00", a distance of 708 metres, more or
less, from the most northerly northeast corner of District Lot 5364,
Cassiar District, being the "Some Fraction" Mineral Claim;


thence on an approximate bearing of 214°04'00", a distance of 900
metres, more or less, to the most easterly corner of District Lot 5362,
being the "Heather No. 6" Mineral Claim;


thence in a general southerly direction along the easterly boundary of
District Lot 5362 to the most southerly southeast corner thereof;


thence on a bearing of 226°58'00", a distance of 764 metres;


thence on a bearing of 192°44'00", a distance of 662 metres;


thence on a bearing of 182°47'00", a distance of 348 metres;


thence on a bearing of 103°22'00", a distance of 609 metres;


thence on a bearing of 58°13'00", a distance of 2346 metres;


thence on a bearing of 102°56'00", a distance of 596 metres, more or
less, to the middle line of the unnamed creek that flows in a general
northerly direction into Strohn Lake;


thence northeasterly and northerly along the middle line of said unnamed
creek a distance of 854 metres;


thence on a bearing of 94°52'00", a distance of 389 metres, more or
less, to the middle line of the unnamed creek that flows northeasterly
into Strohn Creek;


thence northeasterly along the middle line of said unnamed creek a
distance of 800 metres, more or less, to the right natural boundary of
Strohn Creek;


thence on a bearing of 0°00'00", a distance of 115 metres, more or less,
to the southerly boundary of Stewart-Cassiar Highway (Highway 37A);


thence westerly along the southerly boundary of Stewart-Cassiar Highway
(Highway 37A) to the point of commencement.


Excepting thereout the Ministry of Transportation and Highways "25 Mile
South Pit", which can be more particularly described as:


Commencing at the intersection of the southerly boundary of
Stewart-Cassiar Highway (Highway 37A) with the southerly boundary of
Bear Glacier Rest Area Access Road;


thence southwesterly along the southerly boundary of Bear Glacier Rest
Area Access Road a distance of 325 metres;


thence on a bearing of 163°00'00", a distance of 125 metres;


thence on a bearing of 79°00'00", a distance of 325 metres;


thence on a bearing of 338°00'00", a distance of 248 metres, more or
less, to the point of commencement, and containing approximately 6.6
hectares.





APPENDIX H

TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

FOR FOREST RESOURCES







Schedule 1




Map of Forestry Transition period planning criteria for forest
development plans






Definitions


1.
In this Appendix:


a.

"volume of timber harvested under the licence"

means the total of the following that are charged to the holder of the
licence:


i. the volume of timber cut under the licence and under road permits
issued under the licence,


ii. the volume of timber estimated to be wasted or damaged under cutting
permits and road permits issued under the licence, and


iii. the volume of timber cut by the holder of the licence anywhere on
Nisg̱a'a Lands, otherwise than in accordance with this Appendix and
forest practices legislation;


b.
"Nisg̱a'a Lands"
has the same meaning as in this Agreement except that it does not
include former Nisg̱a'a Indian reserves, as defined in paragraph 1 of the
Forest Resources Chapter; and


c. other words and expressions that are defined in paragraph 1 of the
Forest Resources Chapter have the same meaning in this Appendix as given
in that Chapter.


Application


2.
Except as otherwise provided, this Appendix applies to Nisg̱a'a Lands
during the transition period.


Cut Control


3.
If the annual volume of timber apportioned to a licence under paragraph
18 of the Forest Resources Chapter is greater than 15,000 m
3
, the volume of timber harvested under the licence will:


a. for any transition year, not be less than 50%, nor more than 150%, of
the annual volume of timber apportioned to that licence; and


b. for the entire transition period, not exceed the lesser of:


i. the total volume of timber apportioned to that licence, and


ii. the total volume of timber apportioned to that licence, less any
reductions imposed under sections 5 or 7.


4.
If the annual volume of timber apportioned to the licence under
paragraph 18 of the Forest Resources Chapter is 15,000 m
3
or less, the volume of timber harvested under the licence during the
transition period will not exceed the lesser of:


a. the total volume of timber apportioned to that licence; and


b. the total volume of timber apportioned to that licence, less any
reductions imposed under section 7.


5.
If in a transition year, a holder of a licence to which section 3
applies harvests a volume of timber that exceeds the specified limit for
that year, the total volume apportioned to that licence for the
transition period will be reduced by an amount equal to the excess.


6.
Any timber harvest by a holder of a licence that is in excess of the
total volume of timber apportioned to that licence is an unauthorized
harvest, unless that volume was authorized in a cutting permit or road
permit issued by the Forestry Transition Committee.


7.
If in a transition year, a holder of a licence to which section 3
applies harvests a volume of timber that is less than the minimum limit
specified in that section for that year, the total volume apportioned to
that licence for the transition period will be reduced by an amount
equal to the undercut below the minimum limit.


8.
Any volume reductions to a licence under sections 5 or 7 will be
prorated over the remaining years of the transition period.


9.
Any prorated volume referred to in section 8 will be available to the
Nisg̱a'a Nation to harvest in accordance with this Appendix.



STATUS OF TIMBER HARVESTING RIGHTS AND RELATED OBLIGATIONS ON THE
EFFECTIVE DATE




Rights to Harvest Timber on Nisg̱a'a Lands During the Transition Period



10.
A cutting permit referred to in section 11, and any road permit
associated with that cutting permit, remains valid until the first of
the following occurs:

a. the date specified in the permit;

b. the first anniversary of the effective date; or


c. the cancellation of the licence that is associated with the permit.


11.
The cutting permits that section 10 applies to are:





TFL#1
FL A16882
FL A16886



6AM
37
001



6AF
38



7AN



7AO



8AN



8AT



8AM



8AL



8AR



6AJ




12.
A cutting permit or road permit that was issued before the effective
date with the agreement of the Nisg̱a'a Tribal Council under the Interim
Protection Measures agreement entered into among Canada, British
Columbia and the Nisg̱a'a Tribal Council on December 5, 1996, as amended,
remains valid until the first of the following occurs:

a. the date specified in the permit;

b. the second anniversary of the effective date; or


c. the cancellation of the licence that is associated with the permit.


13.
An authorization given under section 52 of the
Forest Act
before the effective date that authorizes an employee or agent of
British Columbia, acting in the course of duties, to harvest timber on
an area that, on the effective date, is Nisg̱a'a Lands, remains valid if
the authorization relates to road construction activities associated
with a valid timber sale licence.



Status of Non-Cutting Authorities on the Effective Date



14.
On the effective date, a road use permit that was issued before the
effective date and was associated with activities referred to in
sections 10, 11 or 12, or with a timber sale licence, remains valid
until the first of the following occurs:

a. the date specified in the permit;

b. the first anniversary of the effective date; or


c. the cancellation of any licence that is associated with the permit.


Status of Operational Plans on the Effective Date


15.
On the effective date, any silviculture prescription approved or in
effect on the day before the effective date, remains valid if it is
associated with:


a. a cutting permit referred to in sections 10, 11 or 12;

b. a timber sale licence; or
c. a harvested area.

16.
On the effective date, any logging plan in effect on the day before the
effective date remains valid if it is associated with:


a. a cutting permit referred to in sections 10, 11 or 12; or

b. a timber sale licence.

Continuing Obligations


17.
British Columbia will fulfil on Nisg̱a'a Lands all obligations imposed
under forest practices legislation for areas that before the effective
date were outside of a tree farm licence area and if the timber on the
area was:


a. damaged or destroyed by natural causes, unless, before the effective
date, a determination has been made by the district manager under the
Forest Practices Code of British Columbia Act
that the area is too remote, too small or too inaccessible to warrant
the preparation of a prescription; or


b. cut, removed, damaged or destroyed in contravention of the
Forest Practices Code of British Columbia Act
by a person other than the holder of a major licence.


FOREST DEVELOPMENT PLAN REQUIREMENTS


Requirement for a Forest Development Plan


18.
Subject to sections 10 to 12, harvesting or road related activities must
not occur under a licence unless the holder of the licence has prepared
a forest development plan that:


a. has been approved by the Forestry Transition Committee; and


b. is in effect before the activities take place.


19.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation will not carry out timber harvesting or road related
activities in respect of the volume of timber specified in section 20
and subsection 21 (a) of the Forest Resources Chapter unless the Nisg̱a'a
Nation has prepared a forest development plan that:


a. has been approved by the Forestry Transition Committee; and


b. is in effect before the activities take place.


20.
A person referred to in section 18 or 19 may apply to the Forestry
Transition Committee for an exemption from the requirement to have an
approved forest development plan if:


a. the only harvesting that will take place on the area is:


i. the felling and removal of trees to eliminate a safety hazard,


ii. the felling of trees to facilitate the collection of seed, and the
proposed harvesting will not result in an opening of greater than one
hectare, or


iii. the felling and removal of trees that have been or will be treated
to facilitate entrapment of pests; and


b. no road construction is required to provide access for the timber
harvesting referred to in subsection (a).


Period and Term of a Forest Development Plan


21.
A forest development plan will cover a period up to the end of the
transition period, but will be for a shorter period if:


a. the term of the licence to which the plan relates terminates before
the end of the transition period; or


b. the Forestry Transition Committee is satisfied that a plan cannot be
developed to the end of the transition period because:


i. a significant portion of the plan is for the harvesting of blowdown
or timber damaged by insects or fire and the exact location of the
damaged timber cannot be determined,


ii. there is insufficient timber available to provide operational
activities for the required period, or


iii. other similar circumstances exist that prevent a plan being
developed for the required period.


22.
Unless otherwise specified by the Forestry Transition Committee, a
forest development plan expires one year from the date of approval of
the plan.


23.
Before or after a forest development plan expires, the Forestry
Transition Committee, may:


a. extend the term of the forest development plan for a period or
periods not exceeding a total of one year at the request of or with the
consent of the person who prepared the plan; and

b. place conditions on the extension.

Content of a Forest Development Plan


24.
A forest development plan will address an area sufficient in size to
include all areas affected by the timber harvesting and road
construction or modification operations proposed under the plan.


25.
A forest development plan will include maps, schedules and other
information for the area under the plan, sufficient to permit adequate
assessment by the Forestry Transition Committee and resource agencies
of:


a. the topography and natural features of the area under the plan; and


b. the proposed timber harvesting and road construction or modification
operations to be carried out under the plan.


26.
Without limiting section 25, a forest development plan in respect of a
licence will:


a. contain information required under the
Forest Practices Code of British Columbia Act
and its regulations in respect of forest development plans for a holder
of a major licence;


b. contain information to the standard required by the district manager
of the Kalum Forest District for a forest development plan in that
forest district in respect of:

i. logging method,
ii. silvicultural system,
iii. harvest season, and
iv. wildlife tree patches;

c. specify for each cutblock where harvesting is proposed during the
first two years of the plan:


i. the maximum proportion of the area that may be occupied by permanent
access structures,


ii. the maximum proportion of the net area to be reforested that may be
occupied by temporary access structures, and


iii. the free growing stocking standards that will apply to the area;


d. specify, for each proposed road, the proposed right of way, which
will not exceed 30 metres in width unless a greater width is approved by
the Forestry Transition Committee; and


e. unless otherwise authorized by the Forestry Transition Committee, be
consistent with the relevant material specified for similar sites and
conditions contained within Ministry of Forests guidebook publications
associated with the
Forest Practices Code of British Columbia Act,
and the regulations under that Act.


27.
Without limiting section 25, a forest development plan submitted by the
Nisg̱a'a Nation will contain the following:


a. all information required under laws made under paragraph 6 of the
Forest Resources Chapter; and

b. for the area under the plan:

i. the size, shape and location of cutblocks proposed for harvesting
during the term of the plan, and


ii. the timing of proposed timber harvesting and related road
construction, maintenance and deactivation.


28.
A forest development plan will comply with the following constraints:


a. timber harvesting is not permitted within the following areas as
shown in Schedule 1 to this Appendix:

i. the Nass Bottomlands polygon,
ii. any ecological reserve polygon,
iii. any archeological polygon, and

iv. 100 metres of either side of the centre line of the Grease Trail;


b. timber harvesting of a road right of way is not permitted if that
harvesting is for the sole purpose of facilitating the extraction of
gravel;


c. for the Pine Mushroom polygon as shown in Schedule 1 to this
Appendix:


i. timber harvesting, including that associated with roads, will retain
a minimum of 80% of the forest cover at an age of at least 120 years,
and


ii. silvicultural systems, other than for areas to be occupied by roads,
will be a selection system and provide for retention of a minimum of 70%
of the total basal area of the cutblock;


d. for the Tseax polygon, as shown in Schedule 1 to this Appendix,
timber harvesting will not result in more than 10% of the visual area
having vegetation of a height of less than five metres;


e. timber harvesting will not occur within one kilometre of former
Kincolith IR #14, Lagaltsap IR #9, New Aiyansh IR #1 or Gitwinksihlkw IR
#7 without the agreement of the Village Government for the affected
former Nisg̱a'a Indian Reserve;


f. timber harvesting will not occur within one kilometre of the Gingietl
Creek Ecological Reserve without the agreement of the Gitwinksihlkw
Village Government; and


g. timber harvesting within one kilometre of Nisg̱a'a Memorial Lava Bed
Park will not result in more than 10% of the visual area having
vegetation of a height of less than five metres.


29.
A forest development plan will contain:


a. if the plan is submitted by a holder of a licence, the signature of
the holder or a person who has authority to sign the plan on behalf of
the holder; and


b. if the plan is submitted by the Nisg̱a'a Nation, the signature of a
person who has authority to sign the plan on behalf of the Nisg̱a'a
Nation.


30.
Notwithstanding sections 25 to 28, if the Forestry Transition Committee
determines that a timber harvesting activity that is proposed to be
carried out is restricted to minor salvage operations, the Forestry
Transition Committee may waive any of the forest development plan
content requirements specified in those sections.


Review and Comment of a Forest Development Plan


31.
The review and comment requirements of the forest practices legislation
apply to forest development plans during the transition period.


32.
Notwithstanding section 31, if the Forestry Transition Committee
determines that a forest development plan or amendment is necessary to
address an emergency, the Forestry Transition Committee may vary the
review and comment requirements.


Evaluation of a Forest Development Plan


33.
The Forestry Transition Committee:


a. subject to subsection (b), will approve a forest development plan
that meets the requirements of this Appendix; but


b. may refuse to approve a cutblock or road proposed in the forest
development plan that meets the requirements of this Appendix, if the
Forestry Transition Committee determines that the plan, in respect of
the matters referred to in section 26, does not adequately manage and
conserve the forest resources on Nisg̱a'a Lands.


34.
Subject to sections 35 and 36 and the dispute resolution rules adopted
under section 64, the Forestry Transition Committee will make a
determination under section 33 within 45 days after receiving the
submission.


35.
Before concluding its evaluation of a forest development plan, the
Forestry Transition Committee may require the person who submitted the
plan to submit additional information that the committee reasonably
requires to determine if the plan meets the requirements specified in
this Appendix.


36.
If the Forestry Transition Committee makes a request under section 35,
the time period specified in section 34 is extended by the period of
time between the request for additional information and the receipt of
that information.


SILVICULTURE PRESCRIPTION REQUIREMENTS


37.
Timber harvesting, other than that associated with roads, must not occur
under a licence without an approved silviculture prescription for the
area.


38.
The district manager will prepare a silviculture prescription for an
area where the holder of a licence referred to in paragraph 29 of the
Forest Resources Chapter has cut, removed, damaged or destroyed timber
on Nisg̱a'a Lands in contravention of the forest practices legislation.


39.
The holder of a major licence will prepare and obtain approval of a
silviculture prescription for an area where the holder has cut, removed,
damaged or destroyed timber on Nisg̱a'a Lands in contravention of the
forest practices legislation.


40.
A person referred to in sections 38 and 39 may apply to the district
manager or the Forestry Transition Committee, as the case may be, for an
exemption from the requirement to have an approved silviculture
prescription.


Content of a Silviculture Prescription


41.
A silviculture prescription will:


a. be consistent with an approved forest development plan for the area,
unless it is a silviculture prescription referred to in section 15;


b. contain all information required under the
Forest Practices Code of British Columbia Act
and its regulations in respect of silviculture prescriptions, unless
that information is contained within an approved forest development plan
for the area; and


c. unless authorized by the district manager or the Forest Transition
Committee, as the case may be, be consistent with the relevant material
specified for similar sites and conditions contained within Ministry of
Forests guidebook publications associated with the
Forest Practices Code of British Columbia Act
and the regulations under that Act.


Evaluation of a Silviculture Prescription


42.
The Forestry Transition Committee or the district manager, as the case
may be:


a. may require that a silviculture prescription be referred to resource
agencies for review and comment; and


b. will approve a silviculture prescription that meets the requirements
of this Appendix unless it is determined that the silviculture
prescription, in respect of matters referred to in section 41, does not
adequately manage and conserve the forest resources on Nisg̱a'a Lands.


43.
Subject to sections 44 and 45 and the dispute resolution rules adopted
under section 64, the Forestry Transition Committee will make a
determination under section 42 within 45 snow free days after the
silviculture prescription being submitted for approval.


44.
Before concluding the evaluation of a silviculture prescription, the
district manager or the Forestry Transition Committee, as the case may
be, may require the person who submitted the prescription to submit
additional information that the district manager or committee reasonably
requires to determine if the prescription meets the requirements of this
Appendix.


45.
If a request is made under section 44, the time period specified in
section 43 is extended by the period of time between the request for
additional information and the receipt of that information.


REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMITS


Cutting Permits


46.
Subject to the dispute resolution rules adopted under section 64, the
district manager, or the Forestry Transition Committee, as the case may
be, will issue a cutting permit within 45 days after receiving an
application for a cutting permit if the district manager or Forestry
Transition Committee determines that:


a. the person making the application has the right to harvest timber and
that right is not under suspension;


b. the application complies with the requirements specified in this
Appendix and any requirements specified in the licence; and


c. the application is completely consistent with all operational plans
approved for the area.


Road Permits and Road Use Permits


47.
A holder of a licence must have a valid road use permit issued by the
Forestry Transition Committee to use a road for timber harvesting and
related activities, unless the road is:

a. a Crown road; or
b. under a valid road permit held by the holder.

48.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation must have a valid road use permit issued by the
Forestry Transition Committee to use a road for timber harvesting and
related activities, if the road is:

a. a Crown road; or
b. subject to a valid road permit.

49.
Subject to the dispute resolution rules adopted under section 64, the
district manager or Forestry Transition Committee, as the case may be,
will issue a road permit or road use permit within 45 snow free days
after receiving an application for a road permit or road use permit if
the district manager or Forestry Transition Committee determines that:


a. the person making the application has the right to harvest timber and
that right is not under suspension;


b. the application complies with the requirements specified in this
Appendix and any requirements specified in the licence; and


c. the application is completely consistent with all operational plans
approved for the area.


Burning Permits


50.
Forest practices legislation with respect to burning permits applies to:


a. timber harvesting and related activities by the holder of a licence
on Nisg̱a'a Lands; and


b. all persons carrying out timber harvesting and related activities on
Nisg̱a'a Lands during the transition period.


FOREST PRACTICES


Silviculture


51.
A free growing stand will be established within the net area to be
reforested on all areas of Nisg̱a'a Lands harvested by the holder of a
licence during the transition period.


Forest Health


52.
If the Forestry Transition Committee determines that there are insects
or diseases causing damage to a forest on an area of Nisg̱a'a Lands that
is subject to a holder of a licence's forest development plan, the
district manager will, in a notice given to the holder of the licence,
order measures acceptable to the Forestry Transition Committee to be
undertaken within a specified time to control or dispose of the insects
or diseases.



FOREST OPERATIONS ON NISG̱A'A LANDS

AFTER THE TRANSITION PERIOD



53.
Timber felled under a valid cutting permit issued to the holder of a
licence may not be removed after the transition period, unless the
holder of the licence:


a. was unable to remove the timber prior to the end of the transition
period as a result of events beyond the holder's control; and


b. removes the timber within a period of not more than 30 days after the
Nisg̱a'a Nation and British Columbia determine that conditions allow for
the removal.


54.
A road permit or road use permit issued before the end of the transition
period may authorize the holder of the permit to continue to use the
road referred to in the permit after the transition period, to the
extent necessary to:

a. carry out fire hazard abatement activities;
b. fulfil silviculture obligations; and
c. complete road deactivation.

55.
Activities referred to in section 54 must be completed within a
reasonable time.


56.
Until the activities referred to in sections 53 and 54 are completed,
the requirements of this Appendix continue to apply, to the extent
necessary to address those activities and their enforcement.


GENERAL


Nisg̱a'a Contractors


57.
A licence referred to in paragraph 27 of the Forest Resources Chapter
will require the holder of the licence to use Nisg̱a'a Contractors to
harvest, during each transition year, the following percentages of the
actual volume harvested under the licence:





a.
year 1
50%;



b.
year 2
70%;



c.
year 3
70%;



d.
year 4
70%; and



e.
year 5
70%.




58.
Contracts referred to in section 57 will be for a term of five years, or
until the end of the transition period, whichever period is shorter.


59.
Notwithstanding section 57, in any transition year, the holder of a
licence is relieved from the requirement in that section to the extent
that no Nisg̱a'a Contractor is reasonably available to carry out full
phase logging of the required volume within that transition year.


Forestry Transition Committee


60.
The Forestry Transition Committee consists of:


a. the district manager or person authorized by the district manager;
and

b. a person authorized by the Nisg̱a'a Nation.

61.
British Columbia and the Nisg̱a'a Nation are each responsible for the
respective costs associated with their member of the Forestry Transition
Committee.


62.
The Forestry Transition Committee has the following mandate:


a. to evaluate all matters associated with operational plans, and
permits referred to it in paragraph 33 of the Forest Resources Chapter,
including approvals, amendments, extensions and exemptions;


b. to annually evaluate and report on the cut control status of each
holder of a licence to which section 3 applies and to impose any
resultant cut control reductions;


c. to determine the volume of timber, if any, available under section 9
for harvesting by the Nisg̱a'a Nation; and


d. to provide to British Columbia, the Nisg̱a'a Nation and Canada an
annual report concerning:

i. the cut control status, and

ii. the expenses incurred by the Forestry Transition Committee during
the preceding transition year.


63.
The Forestry Transition Committee is not responsible for the
completeness and accuracy of information provided to it by British
Columbia, the Nisg̱a'a Nation or the holder of a major licence.


Dispute Resolution


64.
The Forestry Transition Committee will adopt rules for arbitration of
disputes referred to in paragraph 38 of the Forest Resources Chapter.


65.
The rules referred to in section 64 will provide that, unless the
members of the Forestry Transition Committee otherwise agree, any
arbitration will be resolved within 45 days.


Annual Reporting


66.
British Columbia will, for each year of the transition period, provide
to the Nisg̱a'a Nation a summary of compliance and enforcement activities
on Nisg̱a'a Lands.


67.
British Columbia will, on a quarterly basis, provide to the Nisg̱a'a
Nation a summary of timber marking and scale returns on Nisg̱a'a Lands.


Same Economic Position


68.
British Columbia will pay to the Nisg̱a'a Nation an amount for each cubic
metre of timber harvested by a holder of a licence during the transition
period.


69.
The amount referred to in section 68 will be:

a. $6 per cubic metre; or

b. if either billed stumpage or industry performance exceeds $6 per
cubic metre:


i. billed stumpage determined in accordance with the Ministry of Forests
Interior Appraisal Manual, and


ii. industry performance up to a maximum of $10 per cubic metre,
determined as the value per cubic metre of the timber as at the date of
scaling on the Vancouver Log Market, less the appraised operating costs
per cubic metre for that volume.


70.
British Columbia and the Nisg̱a'a Nation will determine a conversion
factor for estimating the Vancouver Log Market value of timber harvested
on Nisg̱a'a Lands by species and grade.


71.
The operating costs referred to in subsection 69 (b) (ii) will be the
costs associated with each timber mark on Nisg̱a'a Lands as determined in
accordance with the Ministry of Forests Interior Appraisal Manual, and
will include the following:

a. development costs;
b. harvesting costs;

c. transportation costs, including any barging cost adjustment;

d. administration costs;
e. post-logging treatment costs;
f. silviculture costs; and
g. stumpage costs.

72.
The amounts referred to in subsections 69 (a) and (b) (ii) will be
adjusted annually for inflation using the Canada Final Domestic Demand
Implicit Price Index, as agreed to by the Nisg̱a'a Nation and British
Columbia, commencing on the second anniversary of the effective date.


73.
Every three months, British Columbia will pay to the Nisg̱a'a Nation the
amount referred to in subsection 69 (a).


74.
In addition to the payment referred to in section 73, British Columbia
will pay to the Nisg̱a'a Nation, on a semi-annual basis unless otherwise
agreed to by British Columbia and the Nisg̱a'a Nation, an amount equal to
the difference between the amount calculated under subsection 69 (b) and
the amount that was paid under section 73.


75.
British Columbia will provide the Nisg̱a'a Nation with quarterly reports
on the volume of timber harvested from Nisg̱a'a Lands by timber mark,
specifying:

a. species and grade;
b. scale date; and
c. billed stumpage.

76.
British Columbia will provide the Nisg̱a'a Nation with a report on
operating costs by timber mark at the same frequency as specified in
section 74.


77.
British Columbia will pay the Nisg̱a'a Nation any amount recovered from a
holder of a licence for having negligently caused or contributed to a
forest fire on Nisg̱a'a Lands during the transition period.


78.
The amount referred to in section 77 will be net of any reasonable costs
incurred by British Columbia in controlling or suppressing a forest fire
on Nisg̱a'a Lands.



SCHEDULE 1

Map of Forestry Transition period planning criteria for forest
development plans








Link to Large Map






APPENDIX I

MAPS OF NASS AREA AND AREAS

FOR BIVALVE HARVESTING







Appendix I - 1




Map of Nass Area with general location of intertidal Zones for
Bivalve Harvesting






Appendix I-2




Map of Observatory Inlet Bivalve Harvesting Area






Appendix I-3




Map of Nasoga'a Gulf Bivalve Harvesting Area






Appendix I-4




Map of Winter Inlet Bivalve Harvesting Area








Appendix I-1

Map of Nass Area with general location of intertidal Zones for Bivalve
Harvesting









Link to Large Map





Appendix I-2

Map of Observatory Inlet Bivalve Harvesting Area









Link to Large Map





Appendix I-3

Map of Nasoga'a Gulf Bivalve Harvesting Area









Link to Large Map





Appendix I-4

Map of Winter Inlet Bivalve Harvesting Area









Link to Large Map




APPENDIX J

NASS WILDLIFE AREA



Map and Metes and bounds description of the Nass Wildlife Area



MAP








Link to Large Map



All that parcel or tract of land, together with all that land covered by
water lying below the present natural boundaries, situated in Range 5
Coast and Cassiar Districts, and lying within the following described
area:


Commencing at boundary Point No. 7 (formerly known as Point "D"), being
a monument set by survey upon the ground on the International Boundary
between Canada and Alaska;


thence in a straight line to the nearest point on the westerly boundary
of the watershed of Bear River;


thence northerly along the westerly boundary of the watershed of Bear
River to the northerly boundary of said watershed;


thence easterly along the northerly boundary of the watershed of Bear
River to the westerly boundary of the watershed of Surprise Creek;


thence northerly along the westerly boundary of the watershed of
Surprise Creek to the northerly boundary of said watershed;


thence in a general easterly direction along the northerly boundaries of
the watersheds of Surprise Creek, Hanna Creek, and Tintina Creek to the
easterly boundary of the watershed of Tintina Creek;


thence southerly along the easterly boundary of the watershed of Tintina
Creek to the northerly boundary of District Lot 2473, Cassiar District;


thence easterly along the northerly boundary of District Lot 2473 to the
northeast corner thereof;


thence on a bearing of 90° to the left natural boundary of Nass River;


thence in a general northeasterly direction along the left natural
boundary of Nass River to the left natural boundary of Vile Creek;


thence in a general southeasterly direction along the left natural
boundary of Vile Creek to the point where the left natural boundary of
Vile Creek meets the left natural boundary of the most easterly
northeasterly flowing fork thereof;


thence on a bearing of 135° to the easterly boundary of the watershed of
Nass River;


thence southerly and southwesterly along the easterly and southeasterly
boundaries of the watershed of Nass River to the northerly boundary of
the watershed of Khutzeymateen River;


thence westerly along the northerly boundary of the watershed of
Khutzeymateen River and continuing westerly along the northerly boundary
of the watersheds of those streams flowing southerly into Khutzeymateen
Inlet to the ridge that separates those streams flowing northwesterly
into Steamer Passage from those flowing northerly into Kwinamass Bay;


thence northwesterly along the ridge that separates those streams
flowing northwesterly into Steamer Passage from those flowing northerly
into Kwinamass Bay produced to the most northerly point on the natural
boundary of Godu Point;


thence on a bearing of 340° to the middle line of Portland Inlet;


thence southwesterly along the middle line of Portland Inlet to the
southeasterly prolongation of the middle line of Wales Passage;


thence northwesterly to and along the middle line of Wales Passage,
passing to the east of York Island, and continuing northwesterly along
the northwesterly prolongation of the middle line of Wales Passage
produced to the International Boundary between Canada and Alaska;


thence in a general northerly direction along the International boundary
between Canada and Alaska to boundary Point No. 7 (formerly known as
Point "D"), being a point thereon, and also being the point of
commencement.




APPENDIX K

MAP OF GUIDE OUTFITTER AREA



Map of Guide Outfitter Area with the general location of the Nisg̱a'a
Commercial Recreation Tenure Areas








Link to Large Map





APPENDIX L

CULTURAL ARTIFACTS AND HERITAGE






Appendix L-1




Nisg̱a'a Artifacts to be transferred from the Canadian Museum of
Civilization to the Nisg̱a'a Nation






Appendix L-2




Nisg̱a'a Artifacts to be shared by the Canadian Museum of
Civilization and the Nisg̱a'a Nation






Appendix L-3




Nisg̱a'a Artifacts to be transferred from the Royal British
Columbia Museum to the Nisg̱a'a Nation






Appendix L-4




Nisg̱a'a Artifacts to be held by the Royal British Columbia
Museum








Appendix L-1

NISG̱A'A ARTIFACTS TO BE TRANSFERRED FROM THE

CANADIAN MUSEUM OF CIVILIZATION TO THE NISG̱A'A NATION






Catalogue No.


Object



V11-C-22
Soul catcher


V11-C-23
Charm


V11-C-24
Charm


V11-C-25
Charm


V11-C-28
Charm


V11-C-2097
Rattle


V11-C-1045
Mask


V11-C-2225
Sculpture


V11-C-360
Neck ring


V11-C-412
Headdress


V11-C-323 ab
Mask


V11-C-1733
Apron


V11-C-1735
Headdress


V11-C-1756
Neck ornament


V11-C-1749
Rattle


V11-C-1801
Soul catcher


V11-C-1774
Mask


V11-C-1790
Mask


V11-C-190
Charm


V11-C-191
Charm


V11-C-193 c
Charm


V11-C-194 ab
Charm


V11-C-196 ab
Charm


V11-C-197 ab
Charm


V11-C-198
Charm


V11-C-201
Charm


V11-C-206
Charm


V11-C-213 a
Charm


V11-C-244
Charm


V11-C-245
Charm


V11-C-247
Charm


V11-C-264
Charm


V11-C-266
Charm


V11-C-272
Charm


V11-C-276
Charm


V11-C-277
Charm


V11-C-284
Charm


V11-C-286
Charm


V11-C-159
Soul catcher


V11-C-168
Soul catcher


V11-C-169
Soul catcher


V11-C-170
Soul catcher


V11-C-171
Soul catcher


V11-C-172
Soul catcher


V11-C-187
Soul catcher


V11-C-199 a-c
Soul catcher


V11-C-249
Soul catcher


V11-C-280
Soul catcher


V11-C-281 b-f
Soul catcher


V11-C-282 b,c
Soul catcher


V11-C-175
Figure


V11-C-176
Figure


V11-C-181
Figure


V11-C-189
Figure


V11-C-193 abde
Figure


V11-C-242
Figure


V11-C-247
Figure


V11-C-251
Figure


V11-C-252
Figure


V11-C-253
Figure


V11-C-265
Figure


V11-C-267a
Figure


V11-C-267b
Figure


V11-C-270
Figure


V11-C-243 a-f
Charm


V11-C-254
Charm


V11-C-255
Charm


V11-C-268 a-f
Charm


V11-C-278
Charm


V11-C-279
Charm


V11-C-281 a
Charm


V11-C-282 a
Charm


V11-C-283
Charm


V11-C-285 a-c
Charm


V11-C-287
Charm


V11-C-288
Charm


V11-C-2314
Charm


V11-C-2315
Charm


V11-C-269
Tooth


V11-C-248
Bone


V11-C-202 ab
Charm


V11-C-203
Charm


V11-C-204
Charm


V11-C-211a-e
Charm


V11-C-212 a-g
Charm


V11-C-205
Charm


V11-C-207
Charm


V11-C-208
Charm


V11-C-209
Charm


V11-C-2143
Charm


V11-C-123
Charm


V11-C-124
Charm


V11-C-147
Charm


V11-C-291
Charm


V11-C-149
Rattle


V11-C-151
Rattle


V11-C-152
Rattle


V11-C-153
Rattle


V11-C-154
Rattle


V11-C-215
Rattle


V11-C-163
Whistle


V11-C-179
Whistle


V11-C-257
Whistle


V11-C-174
Scratcher


V11-C-184
Scratcher


V11-C-185
Scratcher


V11-C-188
Scratcher


V11-C-241
Scratcher


V11-C-250
Scratcher






Appendix L-2

NISG̱A'A ARTIFACTS TO BE SHARED BY THE CANADIAN MUSEUM OF CIVILIZATION
AND THE NISG̱A'A NATION






Catalogue No.


Object



V11-C-20
Drinking cup


V11-C-434
Grease dish


V11-C-435
Grease bowl


V11-C-95
Club (slave killer)


V11-C-79
Axe (stone)


V11-C-21
Mortar (lime)


V11-C-460
Maul


V11-C-29ab
Earrings


V11-C-30
Earring


V11-C-31
Earring


V11-C-1816
Earring


V11-C-1817
Earring


V11-C-1820
Earring


V11-C-1821
Earring


V11-C-1813
Ornament (nose)


V11-C-1814
Nose ornament


V11-C-1815
Ornament


V11-C-1818
Ornament


V11-C-1819
Ornament


V11-C-67
Labret


V11-C-430
Pipe


V11-C-27
Spindle whorl


V11-C-177
Frontlet


V11-C-36
Spoon


V11-C-37
Spoon


V11-C-38
Spoon


V11-C-39
Spoon


V11-C-40
Spoon


V11-C-41
Spoon


V11-C-42
Spoon


V11-C-43
Spoon


V11-C-44
Spoon


V11-C-45
Spoon


V11-C-46
Spoon


V11-C-47
Spoon


V11-C-48
Spoon


V11-C-49
Spoon


V11-C-50
Spoon


V11-C-51
Spoon


V11-C-52
Spoon


V11-C-54
Spoon


V11-C-55
Spoon


V11-C-56
Spoon


V11-C-57
Spoon


V11-C-58
Spoon


V11-C-59
Spoon


V11-C-60
Spoon


V11-C-61
Spoon


V11-C-62
Spoon


V11-C-63
Spoon


V11-C-64
Spoon


V11-C-65
Spoon


V11-C-66
Spoon


V11-C-71
Spoon


V11-C-72
Spoon


V11-C-73
Spoon


V11-C-1974
Spoon


V11-C-328
Headdress


V11-C-326
Mask


V11-C-327
Mask


V11-C-1843
Figure (goat head)


V11-C-1844
Figure (totem pole model)


V11-C-94
Club (slave killer)


V11-C-1046
Mask


V11-C-1427
Mask


V11-C-1183 ab
Chest


V11-C-481
Hat (fighting cap)


V11-C-482
Hat (fighting cap)


V11-C-312
Mask


V11-C-313
Mask


V11-C-314
Mask


V11-C-315
Mask


V11-C-316
Mask


V11-C-317
Mask


V11-C-318
Mask


V11-C-319
Mask


V11-C-320
Mask


V11-C-321
Mask


V11-C-322
Mask


V11-C-324
Mask


V11-C-325a
Mask


V11-C-458
Maul


V11-C-108
Whetstone


V11-C-437
Hammer


V11-C-438
Hammer


V11-C-443
Hammer


V11-C-210a
Pendant


V11-C-112
Spoon


V11-C-210b
Spoon


V11-C-118
Feast dish


V11-C-119
Feast dish


V11-C-1717
Spoon


V11-C-1743
Grind stone


V11-C-1726
Gambling equipment


V11-C-1824a-d
Gambling equipment


V11-C-1751
Grease dish


V11-C-1732ab
Dagger


V11-X-716
Knife


V11-C-1753a-c
Box


V11-C-1730
Board (carved)


V11-C-1734
Staff


V11-C-1713
Stick


V11-C-1748
Blanket (button)


V11-C-1786
Rattle


V11-C-1801
Figure (soul catcher)


V11-C-1802
Figure


V11-C-1754
Figure


V11-C-1755
Whistle


V11-C-1725
Mask


V11-C-1729
Mask


V11-C-1759
Mask


V11-C-1760
Mask


V11-C-1761
Mask


V11-C-1762
Mask


V11-C-1763
Mask


V11-C-1769
Mask


V11-C-1771
Mask


V11-C-1772
Mask


V11-C-1773
Mask


V11-C-1779
Mask


V11-C-1031
Clams


V11-C-1363
Food


V11-C-1421
Food


V11-C-1164ab
Fire-making equipment


V11-C-1424
Adze


V11-C-1469
Maul


V11-C-1398
Hook


V11-C-1399
Hook


V11-C-1400
Hook


V11-C-1401
Hook


V11-C-1402
Hook


V11-C-1403
Hook


V11-C-1404
Hook


V11-C-1405
Hook


V11-C-1470
Drum


V11-C-1394
Rattle


V11-C-1425
Rattle


V11-C-1417
Frontlet


V11-C-1707
Figure (min. totem pole)


V11-C-1471
Figure (White Squirrel)


V11-C-1798
Figure (plaque)


V11-C-1706
Totem pole


V11-C-2146
Totem pole


V11-C-2147
Totem pole


V11-C-739
Mask


V11-C-1165
Mask


V11-C-1396
Mask


V11-C-1468
Mask


V11-C-1473
Mask


V11-C-1474
Mask


V11-C-1475
Mask


V11-C-1182
Figure (marionette)


V11-C-1397ab
Figure


V11-C-1481
Figure (stone)


V11-C-706
Spoon


V11-C-1378abdefhij
Spoons (8)


V11-C-1379abc
Spoons (3)


V11-C-1380
Spoon


V11-C-1381abc
Spoons (3)


V11-C-1382
Spoon


V11-C-1383
Spoon


V11-C-1384
Spoon


V11-C-1385
Spoon


V11-C-1386
Spoon


V11-C-1408
Spoon


V11-C-1410
Spoon


V11-C-1411
Spoon


V11-C-1829
Spoon


V11-C-1830
Spoon


V11-C-1831
Spoon


V11-C-1832
Spoon


V11-C-121
Ornament


V11-C-271
Ornament


V11-C-290
Bracelet


V11-C-260
Robe/Blanket


V11-C-259
Robe/Blanket(Chilkat)


V11-C-132ab
Leggings


V11-C-133ab
Leggings


V11-C-178
Frontlet


V11-C-182
Labret


V11-C-183
Labret


V11-C-192
Labret


V11-C-149
Rattle (shaman)


V11-C-151
Rattle (shaman)


V11-C-152
Rattle


V11-C-156
Rattle


V11-C-157
Rattle


V11-C-214
Rattle


V11-C-105
Spoon


V11-C-126
Spoon


V11-C-218
Spoon


V11-C-219
Spoon


V11-C-220
Spoon


V11-C-221
Spoon


V11-C-222
Spoon


V11-C-223
Spoon


V11-C-225
Spoon


V11-C-226
Spoon


V11-C-227
Spoon


V11-C-228
Spoon


V11-C-229
Spoon


V11-C-230
Spoon


V11-C-231
Spoon


V11-C-232
Spoon


V11-C-233
Spoon


V11-C-234
Spoon


V11-C-235
Spoon


V11-C-236
Spoon


V11-C-237
Spoon


V11-C-238
Spoon


V11-C-239
Spoon


V11-C-274
Spoon


V11-C-1914
Spoon


V11-C-114
Dish


V11-C-115
Dish


V11-C-117
Dish


V11-C-122
Dish (grease)


V11-C-130
Basket


V11-C-131
Basket


V11-C-135
Basket


V11-C-136
Basket


V11-C-106ab
Box


V11-C-107ab
Chest


V11-C-109
Chest


V11-C-128
Chest


V11-C-292
Mat


V11-C-125
Net (dip)


V11-C-295
Arrow


V11-C-296
Arrow


V11-C-297
Arrow


V11-C-298
Arrow


V11-C-299
Arrow


V11-C-300
Arrow


V11-C-301
Arrow


V11-C-302
Arrow


V11-C-303
Arrow


V11-C-304
Arrow


V11-C-305
Arrow


V11-C-306
Arrow


V11-C-307
Arrow


V11-C-308
Arrow


V11-C-309
Arrow


V11-C-310
Arrow


V11-C-100
Gambling equipment


V11-C-101
Gambling equipment


V11-C-102
Gambling equipment


V11-C-139
Gambling equipment


V11-C-141
Gambling equipment


V11-C-142
Gambling equipment


V11-C-143
Gambling equipment


V11-C-144
Gambling equipment


V11-C-145
Gambling equipment


V11-C-146
Gambling equipment


V11-C-148
Gambling equipment


V11-C-195
Gambling equipment


V11-C-275
Gambling equipment


V11-C-167
Dagger


V11-C-180
Dagger


V11-C-161
Knife


V11-C-216
Knife


V11-C-129
Loom


V11-C-217
Spindle


V11-C-164
Gauge (lancet)


V11-C-127
Peeler


V11-C-289
Hammer


V11-C-186
Adze


V11-C-246
Adze


V11-C-258
Adze


V11-C-261
Adze


V11-C-263
Adze


V11-C-293
Adze


V11-C-480
Mortar (stone)






Appendix L-3

NISG̱A'A ARTIFACTS TO BE TRANSFERRED FROM THE

ROYAL BRITISH COLUMBIA MUSEUM

TO THE NISG̱A'A NATION






Artifact No.


Object



1723
Stone Adze


1528
Amalite


9534
Amalite


9683
Amalite


10032
Amalite


1701
Arrow point


10057
Point


17371
Arrow shaft


17372
Arrow shaft


17373
Arrow shaft


17374
Point


17375
Arrow shaft


17376
Arrow shaft


1610
Paint bag


1682
Bag


9639
Bag


9911
Bag


1603
Down bag


1582
Basket


1532
Button blanket


9535
Chilkat blanket


1641
Tray


9623
Tray


9915
Bowl


1564a,b
Box and lid


9542a,b
Box and lid


1605
Wooden dance hat


9688
Bear ear headdress


1511
Carving


1519
Carving


1565
Charm


1566
Charm


1567
Charm


1568
Charm


1569
Charm


1579
Charm


1585
Charm


1587
Charm


1590
Charm


1597
Charm


9544
Charm


9545 a
Charm (1)



9547/c, al, ae, aj,

ak, ag, p, i, j, ai, k, f,

z, t, u, r, v, ad, and y

Charms (19)


9674
Charm


9676
Charm


9678
Charm


10034
Charm


10035
Charm


10037
Charm


10039
Charm


10041
Charm


10055
Charm


1636a, b
Chest and lid


9682a, b
Chest and lid


1719/GgTj 6:8
Jade Chisel


1699/GgTj 6:1
Club


1634 a-d
Cradle and accessories


1573

Crown/ all part of Dr.'s regalia (1564-74)



1574

Crown/ all part of Dr.'s regalia (1564-74)



2883
Crown


9642
Crown


9686
Crown


1625
Dagger


9538
Dagger


1553
Dance apron


1554
Dance apron


1571
Dance apron


1613 a-ax
Gambling sticks and bag


1616
Gambling stick


1706/GT-Y:6
Stone hammer


1708/GgTj 1:1
Stone hammer


1710/GgTj 1:2
Stone hammer


16402
Hook


1644
Ladle


1652
Ladle


1653
Ladle


1501
Mask


1503
Mask


1505
Mask


1507 a,b
Mask and accessory


1509 a,b
Mask and accessory


1514
Mask


1515
Mask


1516
Mask


1518
Mask


1523
Mask


1525
Mask


1527
Mask


9641
Mask


9695
Mask


9696
Mask


9715
Mask


9718
Mask


9912a,b
Mask


1621
Stone mirror


1623
Stone mirror


1499
Screen


1611
Clapper


1617
Gauge (?)


1618
Raw material


1632
Mortuary model


1633
Weasel skin


1675
Paint brush


1676/GgTj 7:3
Paint


1703/GgTj-Y:1
Stone maul


9539
Copper


9638
Case


9693
Wood figure


14838a,b
Totem pole


1715/GgTj 7:4
Mortar


1717/GgTj 6:7
Mortar


1537a
Head ring


1537b
Neck ring


1538
Neck ring


1539
Neck ring


1540
Neck ring


1713/GgTj 6:5
Pestle


9664
Wood pipe


1558
Rattle


1560
Rattle


1570

Rattle/ all part of Dr.'s regalia (1564-74)



1572

Rattle/ all part of Dr.'s regalia (1564-74)



1584 a,b
Pectin shell


9685
Rattle


1686
Scraper


1689
Scraper


9622 a,b
Scratchers (2)


9619
Soul catcher


1690
Loom


1693
Spindle whorl


1696
Needle


1648
Spoon


1649
Spoon


1651
Spoon


1656
Spoon


1659
Spoon


1661
Spoon


1662
Spoon


1668 c, b, j, a, i, f
Spoons (6)


9624
Spoon


9628
Spoon


9631
Spoon


9632
Spoon


9633
Spoon


9634
Spoon


9635
Spoon


9637
Spoon


10031
Spoon


10045
Spoon


1591/GgTj 7:1
Fasting stone


1593
Stone


9690
Tumpline


17186 a, b
Snowshoes


1520
Mask


1521
Mask


1522
Mask






Appendix L-4

NISG̱A'A ARTIFACTS TO BE HELD BY THE

ROYAL BRITISH COLUMBIA MUSEUM






Artifact No.


Object



1724/GhTgs:1
Stone adze


13286
Stone adze


1529
Amalite


14310
Amalite


14319
Frontlet


1702
Arrow point


1684
Bag


9640
Bag


12711
Down bag


12712
Down bag


4815
Bailer


13284
Bailer


1683
Basket


15199
Basket


1609
Chilkat blanket


14294
Chilkat blanket


14927
Blanket


15193
Button blanket


1640
Dish


1669
Tray


13093
Bowl


14713 a,b
Bowl and lid


15088
Bowl


16177
Dish


16187
Dish


18164
Bowl


448
Box


1637a,b
Box and lid


14333
Box


16109
Pendant


16891
Bracelet


16892
Bracelet


17487
Brooch


18166
Brooch


1531
Cap


10053
Helmet


1500
Carving


1512
Carving


1535
Carving


13329
Carving fragment


1549
Charm


1578
Charm


1583 a,b
Charm


1586
Charm


1588
Charm


1589
Charm


1594
Charm


1595
Charm


1596
Charm


9545 b
Charm


9546
Charm



9547

b, g. l. a, af, ah, m,

n, o, h, d, q, s, x,

ab, w, aa, ac, and e


Charms (19)

in Du.26



9621
Charm (1)


9675
Charm


9677
Charm


9679
Charm


9680
Charm


9681
Charm


10036
Charm


10038
Charm


10040
Charm


10054
Charm


1635a, b
Chest and lid


1720
Jade Chisel


1608
Sash


14314a, b
Gloves


14316a, b
Chilkat leggings


14649
Shirt


14297

Copper club/

See In the Wake of the War Canoe (page 280)



15907
Cradle


1545
Crown


1546
Crown


9536
Crown


14312
Crown


14313
Crown


14315a,b
Dagger and sheath


1555
Dance apron


14293
Dance apron/See PN 9637


14330
Dance apron


1612 a-au
Gambling sticks and bag


1615 a-av
Gambling sticks and bag


1707/GgTj 6:4
Stone hammer


1709/GT-Y:7
Stone hammer


1711/GT-Y:8
Stone hammer


14329
Hook


1643
Ladle


1645
Ladle


13328
Ladle


14320
Ladle


14321
Ladle


1502
Mask


1504
Mask


1506
Mask


1508 a,b,c
Mask and accessories


1510 a,b
Mask and accessories


1517
Mask


1524
Mask


1526
Mask


9694
Mask


9714
Mask


9717
Mask


9913
Mask


14306
Mask


14307
Mask


14308
Mask


14309
Mask


14318
Mask


15082
Mask


19036
Mask


1622
Stone mirror


10030
Stone mirror


14331
Slate mirror


1513
Dance prop


1563
Staff


1642
Skimmer


1685
Mat


1688
Chopping block


9540 a, b
Carved hands


9543
Teeth (27)


11163 a, b
Objects (2)


13283
Whistle


13704
Paddle


14291
Puppet


14299
Cane


14302
Labret


17803
Card


1716/GgTj 6:6
Mortar


2882/GfTl-Y:1
Stone Mortar


2886
Head ring


2887
Head ring


2888
Head ring


2889
Neck ring


14932
Neck ring


1712/GgTj 2:1
Pestle


13285
Stone pestle


14301a, b
Wood pipe


15331a, b
Print


15332a, b
Print


15333a, b
Print


15380a, b
Print


15518a, b
Print


15755
Print


16020
Print


16137
Print


16289
Print


16673
Print


16674
Print


17249
Print


17250
Print


17251
Print


1305
Rattle


1559
Rattle


14295
Rattle


14296
Rattle


14311
Rattle


15848
Rattle


1387
Scraper


1687
Scraper


9692
Scratcher


9620
Soul catcher


1692a, b
Whorl and spindle


1694
Spindle rest


1695
Needle


1697
Needle


9689
Loom


15908a, b
Whorl and spindle


1647
Spoon


1650
Spoon


1657
Spoon


1658
Spoon


1660
Spoon


1668/d, g, k, e, h, l
Spoon (6)


9625
Spoon


9626
Spoon


9627
Spoon


9629
Spoon


9630
Spoon


9636
Spoon


14305
Soapberry spoons (4)


14322
Spoon


14323
Spoon


14324
Spoon


14325
Spoon


14326
Spoon


14327
Spoon


14965 a-c
Spoon (3)


1592/GgTj 7:2
Fasting Stone


9691
Tumpline


14994
Tumpline






APPENDIX M

DISPUTE RESOLUTION






Appendix M-1



Collaborative Negotiations





Appendix M-2



Mediation





Appendix M-3



Technical Advisory Panel





Appendix M-4



Neutral Evaluation





Appendix M-5



Elders Advisory Council





Appendix M-6



Arbitration







Appendix M-1

COLLABORATIVE NEGOTIATIONS



1.
In this Appendix:


a.
"Chapter"
means the Dispute Resolution Chapter;


b.
"party"
means a participating Party to collaborative negotiations under this
Appendix; and


c.
"section"
means a section in this Appendix.


General


2.
Collaborative negotiations commence:


a. on the date of delivery of a written notice requiring the
commencement of collaborative negotiations; or


b. in the case of negotiations in the circumstances described in
subparagraph 7 (c) of the Chapter, on the date of the first
negotiation meeting.


Notice


3.
A notice under paragraph 15 of the Chapter requiring the commencement of
collaborative negotiations will include the following:


a. the names of the parties directly engaged in the disagreement;


b. a brief summary of the particulars of the disagreement;


c. a description of the efforts made to date to resolve the
disagreement;


d. the names of the individuals involved in those efforts; and


e. any other information that will help the parties.


Representation


4.
A party may attend collaborative negotiations with or without legal
counsel.


5.
At the commencement of the first negotiation meeting, each party will
advise the other parties of any limitations on the authority of its
representatives.


Negotiation Process


6.
The parties will convene their first negotiation meeting in
collaborative negotiations, other than those described in subparagraph
7 (c) of the Chapter, within 21 days after the commencement of the
collaborative negotiations.


7.
Before the first scheduled negotiation meeting, the parties will discuss
and attempt to reach agreement on any procedural issues that will
facilitate the collaborative negotiations, including the requirements of
paragraph 26 of the Chapter.


8.
For purposes of subparagraph 26 (a) of the Chapter, "timely
disclosure" means disclosure made within 15 days after a request for
disclosure by a party.


9.
The parties will make a serious attempt to resolve the disagreement by

a. identifying underlying interests;

b. isolating points of agreement and disagreement;

c. exploring alternative solutions;

d. considering compromises or accommodations; and


e. taking any other measures that will assist in resolution of the
disagreement.


10.
No transcript or recording will be kept of collaborative negotiations,
but this does not prevent a person from keeping notes of the
negotiations.


Confidentiality


11.
In order to assist in the resolution of a disagreement, collaborative
negotiations will not be open to the public.


12.
The parties, and all persons, will keep confidential:


a. all oral and written information disclosed in the collaborative
negotiations; and


b. the fact that this information has been disclosed.


13.
The parties will not rely on or introduce as evidence in any proceeding,
whether or not that proceeding relates to the subject matter of the
collaborative negotiations, any oral or written information disclosed in
or arising from the collaborative negotiations, including:


a. any documents of other parties produced in the course of the
collaborative negotiations that are not otherwise produced or producible
in that proceeding;


b. any views expressed, or suggestions made, by any party in respect of
a possible settlement of the disagreement;


c. any admissions made by any party in the course of the collaborative
negotiations, unless otherwise stipulated by the admitting party; and


d. the fact that any party has indicated a willingness to make or accept
a proposal for settlement.


14.
Sections 12 and 13 do not apply:


a. in any proceeding for the enforcement or setting aside of an
agreement resolving the disagreement that was the subject of the
collaborative negotiation;


b. if the adjudicator in any proceeding determines that the interests of
the public or the administration of justice outweigh the need for
confidentiality; or


c. if the oral or written information referred to in these sections is
in the public forum.


Right to Withdraw


15.
A party may withdraw from collaborative negotiations at any time.


Termination of Collaborative Negotiations


16.
Collaborative negotiations are terminated when any of the following
occurs:

a. the expiration of:
i. 30 days, or

ii. in the case of collaborative negotiations in the circumstances
described in subparagraph 7 (c) of the Chapter, 120 days


after the first scheduled negotiation meeting, or any longer period
agreed to by the parties in writing;


b. a party directly engaged in the disagreement withdraws from the
collaborative negotiations under section 15;


c. the parties agree in writing to terminate the collaborative
negotiations; or


d. the parties directly engaged in the disagreement sign a written
agreement resolving the disagreement.




Appendix M-2

MEDIATION



Definitions


1.
In this Appendix:


a.
"Chapter"
means the Dispute Resolution Chapter of the Agreement;


b.
"party"
means a participating Party to a mediation under this Appendix; and


c.
"section"
means a section in this Appendix.


General


2.
A mediation commences on the date the Parties directly engaged in the
disagreement have agreed in writing to use mediation, or are deemed to
have agreed to use mediation, under paragraph 24 of the Chapter.


Appointment of Mediator


3.
A mediation will be conducted by one mediator jointly appointed by the
parties.


4.
A mediator will be:


a. an experienced and skilled mediator, preferably with unique qualities
or specialized knowledge that would be of assistance in the
circumstances of the disagreement; and

b. independent and impartial.

5.
If the parties fail to agree on a mediator within 15 days after
commencement of a mediation, the appointment will be made by the neutral
appointing authority on the written request of a party that is copied to
the other parties.


6.
Subject to any limitations agreed to by the parties, a mediator may
employ reasonable and necessary administrative or other support
services.


Requirement to Withdraw


7.
At any time a party may give the mediator and the other parties a
written notice, with or without reasons, requiring the mediator to
withdraw from the mediation on the grounds that the party has
justifiable doubts as to the mediator's independence or impartiality.


8.
On receipt of a written notice under section 7, the mediator must
immediately withdraw from the mediation.


9.
A person who is a Nisg̱a'a citizen, or related to a Nisg̱a'a citizen, must
not be required to withdraw under section 7 solely on the grounds of
that citizenship or relationship.


End of Appointment


10.
A mediator's appointment terminates if:


a. the mediator is required to withdraw under section 8;


b. the mediator withdraws from office for any reason; or

c. the parties agree to the termination.

11.
If a mediator's appointment terminates, a replacement mediator will be
appointed using the procedure in sections 3 to 5 and the required time
period commences from the date of termination of the appointment.


Representation


12.
A party may attend a mediation with or without legal counsel.


13.
If a mediator is a lawyer, the mediator must not act as legal counsel
for any party.


14.
At the commencement of the first meeting of a mediation, each party will
advise the mediator and the other parties of any limitations on the
authority of its representatives.


Conduct of Mediation


15.
The parties will:


a. make a serious attempt to resolve the disagreement by:

i. identifying underlying interests,

ii. isolating points of agreement and disagreement,

iii. exploring alternative solutions, and

iv. considering compromises or accommodations; and


b. cooperate fully with the mediator and give prompt attention to, and
respond to, all communications from the mediator.


16.
A mediator may conduct a mediation in any manner the mediator considers
necessary and appropriate to assist the parties to resolve the
disagreement in a fair, efficient, and cost-effective manner.


17.
Within seven days of appointment of a mediator, each party will deliver
a brief written summary to the mediator of the relevant facts, the
issues in the disagreement, and its viewpoint in respect of them and the
mediator will deliver copies of the summaries to each party at the end
of the seven day period.


18.
A mediator may conduct a mediation in joint meetings or private caucus
convened at locations the mediator designates after consulting the
parties.


19.
Disclosures made by any party to a mediator in private caucus must not
be disclosed by the mediator to any other party without the consent of
the disclosing party.


20.
No transcript or recording will be kept of a mediation meeting but this
does not prevent a person from keeping notes of the negotiations.


Confidentiality


21.
In order to assist in the resolution of a disagreement, a mediation will
not be open to the public.


22.
The parties, and all persons, will keep confidential:


a. all oral and written information disclosed in the mediation; and


b. the fact that this information has been disclosed.


23.
The parties will not rely on or introduce as evidence in any proceeding,
whether or not that proceeding relates to the subject matter of the
mediation, any oral or written information disclosed in or arising from
the mediation, including:


a. any documents of other parties produced in the course of the
mediation that are not otherwise produced or producible in that
proceeding;


b. any views expressed, or suggestions, or proposals made in respect of
a possible settlement of the disagreement;


c. any admissions made by any party in the course of the mediation,
unless otherwise stipulated by the admitting party;


d. any recommendations for settlement made by the mediator; and


e. the fact that any party has indicated a willingness to make or accept
a proposal or recommendation for settlement.


24.
Sections 22 and 23 do not apply:


a. in any proceeding for the enforcement or setting aside of an
agreement resolving the disagreement that was the subject of a
mediation;


b. if the adjudicator in any proceeding determines that the interests of
public or the administration of justice outweigh the need for
confidentiality; or


c. if the oral or written information referred to in those sections is
in the public forum.


25.
A mediator, or anyone retained or employed by the mediator, is not
compellable in any proceeding to give evidence about any oral and
written information acquired or opinion formed by that person as a
result of the mediation, and all parties will oppose any effort to have
that person or that information subpoenaed.


26.
A mediator, or anyone retained or employed by the mediator, is
disqualified as a consultant or expert in any proceeding relating to the
disagreement, including any proceeding that involves persons not a party
to the mediation.


Referral of Issues to Other Processes


27.
During a mediation the parties may agree to refer particular issues in
the disagreement to independent fact-finders, expert panels or other
processes for opinions or findings that may assist them in the
resolution of the disagreement, and in that event, the parties must
specify:

a. the terms of reference for the process;

b. the time within which the process must be concluded; and


c. how the costs of the process are to be allocated to the parties.


28.
The time specified for concluding a mediation will be extended for 15
days following receipt of the findings or opinions rendered in a process
described under section 27.


Right to Withdraw


29.
A party may withdraw from a mediation at any time by giving written
notice of its intent to the mediator.


30.
Before a withdrawal is effective, the withdrawing party will:

a. speak with the mediator;
b. disclose its reasons for withdrawing; and

c. give the mediator the opportunity to discuss the consequences of
withdrawal.


Termination of Mediation


31.
A mediation is terminated when any of the following occurs:


a. subject to section 28, the expiration of 30 days after the
appointment of the mediator, or any longer period agreed by the parties
in writing;


b. the parties have agreed in writing to terminate the mediation or not
to appoint a replacement mediator under section 11;


c. a party directly engaged in the disagreement withdraws from the
mediation under section 29; or


d. the parties directly engaged in the disagreement sign a written
agreement resolving the disagreement.


Mediator Recommendation


32.
If a mediation is terminated without the parties reaching agreement, the
parties may agree to request the mediator to give a written non-binding
recommendation for settlement, but the mediator may decline the request
without reasons.


33.
Within 15 days after delivery of a mediator's recommendation under
section 32, the parties will meet with the mediator to attempt to
resolve the disagreement.


Costs


34.
A party withdrawing from a mediation under section 29 is not responsible
for any costs of the mediation that are incurred after the date that
party's withdrawal takes effect.




Appendix M-3

TECHNICAL ADVISORY PANEL



Definitions


1.
In this Appendix:


a.
"Chapter"
means the Dispute Resolution Chapter;


b.
"member"
means a member of the panel;


c.
"panel"
means a technical advisory panel appointed under this Appendix;


d.
"party"
means a participating Party to a reference under this Appendix;


e.
"reference"
means a reference of a disagreement to the panel; and


f.
"section"
means a section in this Appendix.


General


2.
A question of law may not be referred to a panel.


3.
A reference commences on the date the Parties directly engaged in the
disagreement have agreed in writing to use a technical advisory panel
under paragraph 24 of the Chapter.


Appointment of Panel Members


4.
A panel will have three members unless the parties agree on a panel of
five members.


5.
A member will be skilled and knowledgeable in the technical or
scientific subject matter or issues of the disagreement.


6.
If there are two parties and the panel will have:


a. three members, each party will appoint one member and the two
appointed members will jointly appoint the third member; or


b. five members, each party will appoint two members and the four
appointed members will jointly appoint the fifth member.


7.
If there are three parties and the panel will have:


a. three members, each party will appoint one member; or


b. five members, each party will appoint one member and the three
appointed members will jointly appoint the fourth and fifth members.


8.
In the appointment procedures under sections 6 and 7, if:


a. a party fails to appoint the required number of members within 30
days after commencement of the reference; or


b. the appointing members fail to appoint the required number of
additional members within 15 days after the last appointing member was
appointed


the required appointments will be made by the neutral appointing
authority on the written request of a party that is copied to the other
parties.


End of Appointment


9.
The appointment of a member who is jointly appointed by the parties, by
the appointing members, or by the neutral appointing authority,
terminates if:


a. the member withdraws from office for any reason; or

b. the parties agree to the termination.

10.
The appointment of a member appointed by one party, or by the neutral
appointing authority in place of the party, terminates if:


a. the member withdraws from office for any reason; or


b. the appointing party terminates the appointment.


11.
If the appointment of a member jointly appointed by the parties, by the
appointing members, or by the neutral appointing authority in place of
the parties or members, terminates, a replacement member will be
appointed under section 6 or 7, as applicable, within the required time
commencing from the termination of the former member's appointment.


12.
Subject to section 13, if the appointment of a member appointed by one
party or by the neutral appointing authority in place of the party
terminates, a replacement member will be appointed under section 6 or 7,
as applicable, within the required time commencing from the termination
of the former member's appointment.


13.
A party may elect not to replace a member it had appointed but the party
may not withdraw from the reference except as permitted under sections
31 to 35.


Terms of Reference


14.
Not more than 15 days after the appointment of the last member of a
panel, the parties must provide the panel with written terms of
reference that set out at least the following:

a. the parties to the disagreement;

b. the subject matter or issues of the disagreement;


c. the kind of assistance that the parties request from the panel,
including giving advice, making determinations, finding facts,
conducting, evaluating and reporting on studies and making
recommendations;


d. the time period within which the parties request the assistance to be
provided;


e. the time periods or stages of the reference at the conclusion of
which the panel must provide the parties with written interim reports on
the panel's progress on the referral and on expenditures under the
budget described in section 16 as they relate to that progress;


f. the time within which the panel must provide the parties with the
budget described in section 16; and


g. any limitations on the application of sections 36 to 42 to the
reference.


15.
The parties may discuss the proposed terms of reference with the panel
before they are finally settled.


16.
Within the time referred to in section 14 (f), the panel will provide
the parties with a budget for the costs of conducting the reference,
including:


a. fees to be paid to the members who have been jointly appointed by the
parties, or by appointing members;


b. costs of required travel, food and accommodation of members who have
been jointly appointed by the parties, or by appointing members;


c. costs of any required administrative assistance; and

d. costs of any studies.

17.
The parties will consider the budget submitted by the panel and approve
that budget with any amendments agreed by the parties before the panel
undertakes any activities under the reference.


18.
The parties are not responsible for any costs incurred by the panel that
are in excess of those approved under section 17, and the panel is not
authorized to incur any costs beyond that amount without obtaining prior
written approval from all the parties.


19.
The parties may amend the written terms of reference or the budget from
time to time as they consider necessary, or on recommendation of the
panel.


Conduct of Reference to Panel


20.
The parties will:

a. cooperate fully with the panel;

b. comply with any requests made by the panel as permitted or required
under this Appendix; and


c. give prompt attention to and respond to all communications from the
panel.


21.
Subject to any limitations or requirements in the terms of reference
given and the limits of the budget approved under sections 17 to 19, the
panel may conduct its reference using any procedure it considers
necessary or appropriate, including holding a hearing.


22.
If a hearing is held, the hearing must be conducted as efficiently as
possible and in the manner the panel specifies, after consultation with
the parties.


23.
If a hearing is held, the panel must give the parties reasonable written
notice of the hearing date, which notice must, in any event, be not less
than seven days.


24.
No transcript or recording will be kept of a hearing, but this does not
prevent a person attending the hearing from keeping notes of the
hearing.


25.
The legal rules of evidence do not apply to a hearing before the panel.


26.
The panel will give the parties the interim and final written reports
specified in its terms of reference within the required times.


27.
A report of the panel is not binding on the parties.


Panel Business


28.
A panel will appoint one of its members to act as chair of the panel.


29.
The chair of a panel is responsible for all communications between the
panel, the parties and any other person to whom the panel wishes to
communicate, but this does not preclude a member from communicating
informally with a party.


30.
A panel will make every reasonable effort to conduct its business, and
fulfill its obligations under its terms of reference, by consensus, but:


a. if consensus is not possible, by actions approved by a majority of
its members; or


b. if a majority is not possible, by actions approved by the chair of
the panel.


Right to Withdraw


31.
If one of two parties to a reference, or two of three parties to a
reference, are not satisfied with the progress of the reference:

a. after receipt of an interim report; or

b. as a result of the panel's failure to submit an interim report within
the required time


the dissatisfied party or parties, as the case may be, may give written
notice to the panel and the other party that the party or parties are
withdrawing from the reference and that the reference is terminated.


32.
If one of three parties to a reference is not satisfied with the
progress of the reference:

a. after receipt of an interim report; or

b. as a result of the panel's failure to submit an interim report within
the required time


the dissatisfied party may give written notice to the panel and the
other parties that it is withdrawing from the reference.


33.
Two parties who receive a notice under section 32 will advise the panel
in writing that they have agreed:

a. to terminate the reference; or
b. to continue the reference.

34.
If no party gives a notice under sections 31 or 32 within 10 days after:

a. receipt of an interim report; or
b. the time required to submit an interim report

all parties will be deemed to be satisfied with the progress of the
reference until submission of the next required interim report.


35.
No party may withdraw from a reference except as permitted under
sections 31 to 34.


Confidentiality


36.
The parties may, by agreement recorded in the terms of reference of the
panel in section 14, limit the application of all or any part of
sections 37 to 42 in a reference.


37.
In order to assist in the resolution of the disagreement, a reference
will not be open to the public.


38.
The parties, and all persons, will keep confidential:


a. all oral and written information disclosed in the reference; and


b. the fact that this information has been disclosed.


39.
The parties will not rely on or introduce as evidence in any proceeding,
whether or not that proceeding relates to the subject matter of the
reference, any oral or written information disclosed in or arising from
the reference, including:


a. any documents of other parties produced in the course of the
reference that are not otherwise produced or producible in that
proceeding;


b. any views expressed, or suggestions made, in respect of a possible
settlement of the disagreement;


c. any admissions made by any party in the course of the reference,
unless otherwise stipulated by the admitting party;


d. the fact that any party has indicated a willingness to make or accept
a proposal or recommendation for settlement; and

e. any reports of the panel.

40.
Sections 38 and 39 do not apply:


a. in any proceeding for the enforcement or setting aside of an
agreement resolving the disagreement that was the subject of the
reference;


b. if the adjudicator in any proceeding determines that the interests of
the public or the administration of justice outweigh the need for
confidentiality; or


c. if the oral or written information referred to in those sections is
in the public forum.


41.
A member, or anyone retained or employed by the member, is not
compellable in any proceeding to give evidence about any oral or written
information acquired or opinion formed by that person as a result of the
reference, and all parties will oppose any effort to have that person or
that information subpoenaed.


42.
A member, or anyone retained or employed by the member, is disqualified
as a consultant or expert in any proceeding relating to the
disagreement, including any proceeding that involves persons not a party
to the reference.


Attempt to Resolve After Report


43.
Within 21 days after receipt of the final written report of a panel, the
parties will meet and make an effort to resolve the disagreement taking
into account the report of the panel or any other considerations.


44.
If the parties and the panel agree, the members of a panel may attend
the meeting under section 43, and provide any necessary assistance to
the parties.


Termination of Reference to Panel


45.
A reference is terminated when any of the following occurs:


a. the reference has been terminated as permitted under section 31 or
33;


b. the expiration of 30 days after receipt of the final report of the
panel, or any longer period agreed by the parties in writing; or


c. the parties directly engaged in the disagreement sign a written
agreement resolving the disagreement.


Costs


46.
A party is not responsible for sharing any costs of the reference that
were incurred after the date that party notified the other parties,
under section 32, of its withdrawal from the reference.




Appendix M-4

NEUTRAL EVALUATION



Definition


1.
In this Appendix:


a.
"Chapter"
means the Dispute Resolution Chapter;


b.
"party"
means a participating Party to a neutral evaluation under this Appendix;
and


c.
"section"
means a section in this Appendix.


General


2.
A neutral evaluation commences on the date that the Parties directly
engaged in the disagreement have agreed in writing to use neutral
evaluation under paragraph 24 of the Chapter.


Appointment of Neutral Evaluator


3.
A neutral evaluation will be conducted by one person jointly appointed
by the parties.


4.
A neutral evaluator will be:


a. experienced or skilled in the subject matter or issues of the
disagreement; and

b. independent and impartial.

5.
If the parties fail to agree on a neutral evaluator within 21 days after
commencement of a neutral evaluation, the appointment will be made by
the neutral appointing authority on the written request of a party that
is copied to the other parties.


6.
Subject to any limitations agreed to by the parties, a neutral evaluator
may employ reasonable and necessary administrative or other support
services.


Requirement To Withdraw


7.
At any time a party may give a neutral evaluator and the other parties a
written notice, with or without reasons, requiring the neutral evaluator
to withdraw from the neutral evaluation on the grounds that the party
has justifiable doubts as to the neutral evaluator's independence or
impartiality.


8.
On receipt of a written notice under section 7, the neutral evaluator
must immediately withdraw from the neutral evaluation.


9.
A person who is a Nisg̱a'a citizen, or related to a Nisg̱a'a citizen, must
not be required to withdraw under section 7 solely on the grounds of
that citizenship or relationship.


End of Appointment


10.
A neutral evaluator's appointment terminates if:


a. the neutral evaluator is required to withdraw under section 8;


b. the neutral evaluator withdraws from office for any reason; or

c. the parties agree to the termination.

11.
Unless the parties agree otherwise, if a neutral evaluator's appointment
terminates, a replacement will be appointed under section 5 within the
required time commencing from the date of the termination of the
appointment.


Communications


12.
Except with respect to administrative details or a meeting under section
31, the parties will not communicate with the neutral evaluator:


a. orally except in the presence of all parties; or


b. in writing without immediately sending a copy of that communication
to all parties.


13.
Section 12 also applies to any communication by a neutral evaluator to
the parties.


Conduct of Neutral Evaluation


14.
The parties will:

a. cooperate fully with the neutral evaluator;

b. comply with any requests made by the neutral evaluator as permitted
or required under this Appendix; and


c. give prompt attention to and respond to all communications from the
neutral evaluator.


15.
A neutral evaluation will be conducted only on the basis of documents
submitted by the parties under section 20 unless the parties agree to,
or the neutral evaluator requires, additional submissions or other forms
of evidence.


16.
If a hearing is held, the hearing must be conducted as efficiently as
possible and in the manner the neutral evaluator specifies, after
consultation with the parties.


17.
If a hearing is held, the panel must give the parties reasonable written
notice of the hearing date, which notice must, in any event, be not less
than seven days.


18.
No transcript or recording will be kept of a hearing, but this does not
prevent a person attending the hearing from keeping notes of the
hearing.


19.
The legal rules of evidence do not apply to a neutral evaluation.


20.
Within 15 days after the appointment of a neutral evaluator, each party
must deliver to the other parties and to the neutral evaluator a written
submission respecting the disagreement, including facts upon which the
parties agree or disagree, and copies of any documents, affidavits and
exhibits on which the party relies.


21.
Within 21 days after the appointment of a neutral evaluator, a party may
submit a reply to the submission of any other party and, in that event,
will provide copies of the reply to the party and the neutral evaluator.


Confidentiality


22.
In order to assist in the resolution of the disagreement, a neutral
evaluation will not be open to the public.


23.
The parties, and all persons, will keep confidential:


a. all oral and written information disclosed in the neutral evaluation;
and


b. the fact that this information has been disclosed.


24.
The parties will not rely on or introduce as evidence in any proceeding,
whether or not that proceeding relates to the subject matter of the
neutral evaluation, any oral or written information disclosed in or
arising from the neutral evaluation, including:


a. any documents of other parties produced in the course of the neutral
evaluation which are not otherwise produced or producible in that
proceeding;


b. any views expressed, or suggestions made, in respect of a possible
settlement of the disagreement;


c. any admissions made by any party in the course of the neutral
evaluation, unless otherwise stipulated by the admitting party;


d. the fact that any party has indicated a willingness to make or accept
a proposal for settlement; and


e. subject to section 28, the opinion of the neutral evaluator.


25.
Sections 23 and 24 do not apply:


a. in any proceedings for the enforcement or setting aside of an
agreement resolving the disagreement that was the subject of a neutral
evaluation;


b. if the adjudicator in any proceeding determines that the interests of
the public or the administration of justice outweigh the need for
confidentiality; or


c. if the oral or written information is in the public forum.


26.
A neutral evaluator, or anyone retained or employed by the neutral
evaluator, is not compellable in any proceedings to give evidence about
any oral and written information acquired or opinion formed by that
person as a result of a neutral evaluation under this Appendix, and all
parties will oppose any effort to have that person or that information
subpoenaed.


27.
A neutral evaluator and anyone retained or employed by the neutral
evaluator is disqualified as a consultant or expert in any proceeding
relating to the disagreement, including any proceeding that involves
persons not a party to the neutral evaluation.


28.
Despite sections 23 to 26, after an arbitral tribunal has delivered its
final arbitral award, or a court has referred its decision, in respect
of a disagreement, a party, for the purpose only of making a submission
on the allocation of costs of that arbitral or judicial proceeding, may
give to the arbitral tribunal or the court a copy of:


a. the neutral evaluator's opinion respecting that agreement; or


b. the neutral evaluator's notice of termination under section 7.


Non-Binding Opinion


29.
Within 21 days after the later of:


a. delivery of the last submission required or permitted in a neutral
evaluation under this Appendix; or

b. completion of a hearing,

the neutral evaluator will deliver to the parties a written opinion with
reasons in respect of the probable disposition of the disagreement
should it be submitted to arbitral or judicial proceedings, as the case
may be, under the Chapter.


30.
An opinion under section 29 is not binding on the parties.


Attempt to Resolve After Opinion


31.
Within 21 days after delivery of an opinion under section 29, the
parties will meet and make an effort to resolve the disagreement, taking
into account the opinion of the neutral evaluator or any other
considerations.


32.
If the parties and the neutral evaluator agree, the neutral evaluator
may attend a meeting under section 31, and provide any necessary
assistance to the parties.


Failure to Comply


33.
If a party fails to participate in the neutral evaluation as
contemplated in sections 14 to 21, the neutral evaluator may:


a. provide an opinion based solely upon the information and submissions
they have obtained; or


b. give a written notice of termination of the neutral evaluation


and, in either event, the neutral evaluator must record that party's
failure.


Termination of Neutral Evaluation


34.
A neutral evaluation is terminated when any of the following occurs:


a. the neutral evaluator gives a notice of termination under section 33
(b);


b. the expiration of 30 days after receipt of an opinion under section
29 or 33, as the case may be, or any longer period agreed by the
parties;


c. all the parties directly engaged in the disagreement agree in writing
to terminate evaluation; or


d. all the parties directly engaged in the disagreement sign a written
agreement resolving the disagreement.


Costs


35.
A party that has failed to participate in a neutral evaluation as
contemplated in sections 14 to 21 is responsible for its share of the
costs of the neutral evaluation, despite its failure to participate.




Appendix M-5

ELDERS ADVISORY COUNCIL



Definition


1.
In this Appendix:


a.
"Chapter"
means the Dispute Resolution Chapter;


b.
"council"
means the elders advisory council appointed under this Appendix;


c.
"elder"
means a member of a council;


d.
"party"
means a participating Party to the reference under this Appendix;


e.
"reference"
means a reference of a disagreement to the council; and


f.
"section"
means a section in this Appendix.


General


2.
A reference commences on the date the Parties directly engaged in the
disagreement have agreed in writing to use an elders advisory council
under paragraph 24 of the Chapter.


Appointment of Elders


3.
Within 30 days after a reference has commenced, each party will appoint
at least one, but not more than three, elders to the council.


4.
Preferably, the elders will be individuals who:


a. are recognized in their respective communities as wise, tolerant,
personable and articulate, and who:


i. are often sought out for counsel or advice, or


ii. have a record of distinguished public service; and


b. are available to devote the time and energy as required to provide
the assistance described in this Appendix.


End of Appointment


5.
Unless an elder:


a. has requested to be relieved of their appointment due to a conflict
of interest or otherwise; or


b. is not able to fulfill their duties, due to incapacity or otherwise


the elder's appointment to the council may not be terminated until
termination of the reference in which the elder is involved.


6.
If an elder's appointment is terminated in the circumstances described
in section 5 (a) or (b) and that elder was the only elder of the council
appointed by a party to the reference, that party must replace the elder
within seven days.


7.
If an elder's appointment is terminated in the circumstances described
in section 5 (a) or (b) and that elder was not the only elder of the
council appointed by a party to the reference, that party may replace
the elder but the replacement must be made within seven days.


Conduct of Reference


8.
In a reference, the parties will cooperate fully with the council, and
give prompt attention to, and respond, to all communications from the
council.


9.
Notwithstanding section 8, a party is not required to disclose to the
council or provide it with any information that the party would not be
required to disclose in any arbitral or judicial proceedings in respect
of the disagreement.


10.
The council is expected to conduct itself informally in order that the
parties may take full advantage of the council's good offices to resolve
the disagreement.


11.
The council may establish its own process to suit the particular
circumstances of a reference including meeting with the parties together
or separately, conducting informal interviews or inquiries and
facilitating settlement negotiations.


12.
The council will give the parties its final advice or recommendations on
a disagreement referred to it within 120 days after the commencement of
the reference.


13.
The council may, at its option, provide its advice to the parties:

a. orally on the same occasion; or
b. in writing.

14.
The council may, by unanimous decision, extend the time for giving
advice or recommendations under section 12, on one occasion only, to a
maximum of 60 additional days.


15.
The advice or recommendations of the council are not binding on the
parties.


16.
Subject to any limitations agreed to by the parties, the council may
employ reasonable and necessary administrative or other support
services.


Right to Withdraw


17.
A party may not withdraw from a reference until its conclusion unless
all the parties agree in writing.


Confidentiality


18.
In order to assist in the resolution of the disagreement, a reference
will not be open to the public.


19.
The parties, and all persons, will keep confidential:


a. all oral and written information disclosed in the reference; and


b. the fact that this information has been disclosed.


20.
The parties will not rely on or introduce as evidence in any proceeding,
whether or not that proceeding relates to the subject matter of the
reference, any oral or written information disclosed in or arising from
the reference, including:


a. any documents of other parties produced in the course of the
reference that are not otherwise produced or producible in that
proceeding;


b. any views expressed, or suggestions made, in respect of a possible
settlement of the disagreement;


c. any admissions made by any party in the course of the reference,
unless otherwise stipulated by the admitting party;


d. any advice or recommendations made by an elder or the council; and


e. the fact that any party has indicated a willingness to make or accept
any advice or recommendation for settlement.


21.
Sections 19 and 20 do not apply:


a. in any proceedings for the enforcement or setting aside of an
agreement resolving the disagreement that was the subject of the
reference;


b. if the adjudicator in any proceeding determines that the interests of
the public or the administration of justice outweigh the need for
confidentiality; or


c. if the oral or written information referred to in those sections is
in the public forum.


22.
An elder, or anyone retained or employed by the council, is not
compellable in any proceeding to give evidence about any oral and
written information acquired or opinion formed by that person as a
result of the reference and all parties will oppose any effort to have
that person or that information subpoenaed.


23.
An elder, or anyone retained or employed by the council, is disqualified
as a consultant or expert in any proceeding relating to the
disagreement, including any proceeding that involves persons not a party
to the reference.


Decision-Making


24.
The council must make its best efforts to reach consensus among the
elders before taking any action or giving any advice under the
reference.


25.
The council may not take any action under section 12 unless at least one
elder appointed by each party expressly agrees with the action taken.


Termination of Reference


26.
A reference is terminated when any of the following occurs:


a. the council gives the parties its advice under section 12;


b. the expiration of the applicable time period in section 12 or 14; or


c. the parties directly engaged in the disagreement sign a written
agreement resolving the disagreement.




Appendix M-6

ARBITRATION



Definitions


1.
In this Appendix:


a.
"applicant"
means:


i. in an arbitration commenced under paragraph 28 of the Chapter, the
party that delivered the notice of arbitration, and


ii. in an arbitration commenced under paragraph 29 of the Chapter, the
party that the parties have agreed will be the applicant in the
agreement to arbitrate;


b.
"arbitral award"
means any decision of the arbitral tribunal on the substance of the
disagreement submitted to it, and includes:


i. an interim arbitral award, including an interim award made for the
preservation of property, and

ii. an award of interest or costs;

c.
"arbitral tribunal"
means a single arbitrator or a panel of arbitrators appointed under this
Appendix;


d.
"arbitration agreement"
includes


i. the requirement to refer to arbitration disagreements described in
paragraph 28 of the Chapter; and


ii. an agreement to arbitrate a disagreement as described in paragraph
29 of the Chapter;


e.
"Chapter"
means the Dispute Resolution Chapter of the Agreement;


f.
"party"
means a participating Party to arbitration under this Appendix;


g.
"respondent"
means a party other than the applicant;


h.
"section"
means a section of this Appendix;


i.
"Supreme Court"
means the Supreme Court of British Columbia.


2.
A reference in this Appendix, other than in section 87 or 116 (a),
to a claim, applies to a counterclaim, and a reference in this Appendix
to a defence, applies to a defence to a counterclaim.


3.
Despite paragraph 4 of the Chapter, the parties may not vary section 53
or 97.


Communications


4.
Except in respect of administrative details, the parties will not
communicate with the arbitral tribunal:


a. orally, except in the presence of all other parties; or


b. in writing, without immediately sending a copy of that communication
to all other parties.


5.
Section 4 also applies to any communication by the arbitral tribunal to
the parties.


Waiver of Right to Object


6.
A party that knows that:

a. any provision of this Appendix; or

b. any requirement under the Agreement or arbitration agreement


has not been complied with, and yet proceeds with the arbitration
without stating its objection to noncompliance without undue delay or,
if a time limit is provided for stating that objection, within that
period of time, will be deemed to have waived its right to object.


7.
In section 6 (a)

"any provision of this Appendix"

means any provision of this Appendix in respect of which the parties may
otherwise agree.


Extent of Judicial Intervention


8.
In matters governed by this Appendix:


a. no court shall intervene except as provided in this Appendix; and


b. no arbitral proceedings of an arbitral tribunal, or an order, ruling
or arbitral award made by an arbitral tribunal shall be questioned,
reviewed or restrained by a proceeding under any legislation or other
law that permits judicial review except to the extent provided in this
Appendix.


Construction of Appendix


9.
In construing a provision of this Appendix, a court or arbitral tribunal
may refer to the documents of the United Nations Commission on
International Trade Law and its working group respecting the preparation
of the UNCITRAL Model Arbitration Law and must give those documents the
weight that is appropriate in the circumstances.


Stay of Legal Proceedings


10.
If a Party commences legal proceedings in a court against another Party
in respect of a matter required or agreed to be submitted to
arbitration, a Party to the legal proceedings may, before or after
entering an appearance, and before delivery of any pleadings or taking
any other step in the proceedings, apply to that court to stay the
proceedings.


11.
In an application under section 10, the court must make an order staying
the legal proceedings unless it determines that:


a. the arbitration agreement is null and void, inoperative or incapable
of being performed; or


b. the legal proceedings are permitted under the Chapter.


12.
An arbitration may be commenced or continued, and an arbitral award
made, even if an application has been brought under section 10, and the
issue is pending before the court.


Interim Measures by Court


13.
It is not incompatible with an arbitration agreement for a Party to
request from a court, before or during arbitral proceedings, an interim
measure of protection as provided in paragraph 14 of the Chapter, and
for a court to grant that measure.


Commencement of Arbitral Proceedings


14.
The arbitral proceedings in respect of a disagreement:


a. required to be arbitrated as set out in paragraph 28 of the Chapter,
commences on delivery of the notice of arbitration to the Parties; or


b. agreed to be arbitrated as set out in paragraph 29 of the Chapter,
commences on the date of the arbitration agreement.


Notice of Arbitration


15.
A notice of arbitration under paragraph 28 of the Chapter must be in
writing and contain the following information:


a. a statement of the subject matter or issues of the disagreement;


b. a requirement that the disagreement be referred to arbitration;

c. the remedy sought;
d. the suggested number of arbitrators; and

e. any preferred qualifications of the arbitrators.


16.
A notice of arbitration under section 15 may contain the names of any
proposed arbitrators, including the information specified in section 17.


Arbitrators


17.
In an arbitration:


a. required to be arbitrated as set out in paragraph 28 of the Chapter,
there will be three arbitrators; and


b. agreed to be arbitrated as set out in paragraph 29 of the Chapter,
there will be one arbitrator.


18.
A person eligible for appointment as:


a. a single arbitrator or as chair of an arbitral tribunal will be an
experienced arbitrator or arbitration counsel or have had training in
arbitral procedure; and


b. as a single arbitrator or member of an arbitral panel:

i. will be independent and impartial, and

ii. preferably, will have knowledge of, or experience in, the subject
matter or issues of the disagreement.


Appointment of Arbitrators


19.
A party proposing the name of an arbitrator to another party under
section 20 will also submit a copy of that person's resume and the
statement that person is required to make under section 26.


20.
In an arbitration with a single arbitrator, if the parties fail to agree
on the arbitrator within 30 days after the commencement of the
arbitration, the appointment will be made by the neutral appointing
authority, on the written request of a party that is copied to the other
parties.


21.
In an arbitration with three arbitrators and two parties, each party
will appoint one arbitrator, and the two appointed arbitrators will
appoint the third arbitrator.


22.
In the appointment procedure under section 21, if:


a. a party fails to appoint an arbitrator within 30 days after receipt
of a request to do so from the other party; or


b. the two appointed arbitrators fail to agree on the third arbitrator
within 30 days after the last of them was appointed


the appointment will be made by the neutral appointing authority, on the
written request of a party that is copied to the other parties.


23.
In an arbitration with three arbitrators and three parties, the three
parties will jointly appoint the three arbitrators.


24.
In the arbitration procedure under section 23, if the three parties fail
to agree on the three arbitrators within 60 days after the commencement
of the arbitration, the appointments will be made by the neutral
appointing authority, on the written request of a party copied to the
other parties.


25.
The neutral appointing authority, in appointing an arbitrator, must have
due regard to:


a. any qualifications required of the arbitrator as set out in section
18 or as otherwise agreed in writing by the parties; and


b. other considerations as are likely to secure the appointment of an
independent and impartial arbitrator.


Grounds for Challenge


26.
When a person is approached in connection with possible appointment as
an arbitrator, that person must provide a written statement:


a. disclosing any circumstances likely to give rise to justifiable
doubts as to their independence or impartiality; or


b. advising that the person is not aware of any circumstances of that
nature and committing to disclose them if they arise or become known at
a later date.


27.
An arbitrator, from the time of appointment and throughout the arbitral
proceedings, must, without delay, disclose to the parties any
circumstances referred to in section 26 unless the parties have already
been informed of them.


28.
An arbitrator may be challenged only if:


a. circumstances exist that give rise to justifiable doubts as to the
arbitrator's independence or impartiality; or


b. the arbitrator does not possess the qualifications set out in this
Appendix or as otherwise agreed in writing by the parties.


29.
A party may only challenge an arbitrator appointed by that party, or in
whose appointment that party has participated, for reasons of which that
party becomes aware after the appointment has been made.


30.
A person who is a Nisg̱a'a citizen, or related to a Nisg̱a'a citizen, may
not be challenged under section 28 solely on the grounds of that
citizenship or relationship.


Challenge Procedure


31.
A party who intends to challenge an arbitrator will send to the arbitral
tribunal a written statement of the reasons for the challenge within 15
days after becoming aware of the constitution of the arbitral tribunal,
or after becoming aware of any circumstances referred to in section 28.


32.
Unless the arbitrator challenged under section 31 withdraws from office,
or the other parties agree to the challenge, the arbitral tribunal must
decide on the challenge.


33.
If a challenge under any procedure agreed upon by the parties or under
the procedure under section 31 is not successful, the challenging party,
within 30 days after having received notice of the decision rejecting
the challenge, may request the neutral appointing authority to decide on
the challenge.


34.
The decision of the neutral appointing authority under section 33 is
final and is not subject to appeal.


35.
While a request under section 33 is pending, the arbitral tribunal,
including the challenged arbitrator, may continue the arbitral
proceedings and make an arbitral award unless:


a. the costs occasioned by proceeding before the decision of the neutral
appointing authority is made would unduly prejudice the parties; or

b. the parties agree otherwise.

Failure or Impossibility to Act


36.
The mandate of an arbitrator terminates if the arbitrator becomes unable
at law, or as a practical matter, to perform the arbitrator's functions,
or for other reasons fails to act without undue delay.


37.
If a controversy remains concerning any of the grounds referred to in
section 36, a party may request the neutral appointing authority to
decide on the termination of the mandate.


Termination of Mandate and Substitution of Arbitrator


38.
In addition to the circumstances referred to under sections 31 to 33,
and 36, the mandate of an arbitrator terminates:


a. if the arbitrator withdraws from office for any reason; or

b. by, or pursuant to, agreement of the parties.

39.
If the mandate of an arbitrator terminates, a replacement arbitrator
must be appointed under sections 19 to 25, as applicable.


40.
If a single or chairing arbitrator is replaced, any hearings previously
held must be repeated.


41.
If an arbitrator other than a single or chairing arbitrator is replaced,
any hearings previously held may be repeated at the discretion of the
arbitral tribunal.


42.
An order or ruling of the arbitral tribunal made before the replacement
of an arbitrator under section 39 is not invalid solely because there
has been a change in the composition of the tribunal.



Competence of Arbitral Tribunal to Rule on its Jurisdiction



43.
An arbitral tribunal may rule on its own jurisdiction.


44.
A plea that an arbitral tribunal does not have jurisdiction must be
raised not later than the submission of the statement of defence; but a
party is not precluded from raising that plea by the fact that the party
has appointed, or participated in the appointment of, an arbitrator.


45.
A plea that an arbitral tribunal is exceeding the scope of its authority
must be made as soon as the matter alleged to be beyond the scope of its
authority is raised during the arbitral proceedings.


46.
An arbitral tribunal may, in either of the cases referred to in section
44 or 45, admit a later plea if it considers the delay justified.


47.
An arbitral tribunal may rule on a plea referred to in section 44 or 45
either as a preliminary question or in the arbitral award.


48.
If an arbitral tribunal rules as a preliminary question that it has
jurisdiction, any party, within 15 days after having received notice of
that ruling, may request the Supreme Court to decide the matter.


49.
A decision of the Supreme Court under section 48 is final and is not
subject to appeal.


50.
While a request under section 48 is pending, an arbitral tribunal may
continue the arbitral proceedings and make an arbitral award unless:


a. the costs occasioned by proceeding before the decision of the Supreme
Court is made would unduly prejudice the parties; or

b. the parties agree otherwise.

Interim Measures Ordered by Arbitral Tribunal


51.
Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, the arbitral tribunal may, at
the request of a party, order a party to take any interim measure of
protection as the arbitral tribunal may consider necessary in respect of
the subject matter of the disagreement.


52.
The arbitral tribunal may require a party to provide appropriate
security in connection with a measure ordered under section 51.


Equal Treatment of Parties


53.
The parties must be treated with equality and each party must be given a
full opportunity to present its case.


Determination of Rules of Procedure


54.
Subject to this Appendix, the parties may agree on the procedure to be
followed by the arbitral tribunal in conducting the proceedings.


55.
Failing any agreement under section 54, the arbitral tribunal, subject
to this Appendix, may conduct the arbitration in the manner it considers
appropriate.


56.
The arbitral tribunal is not required to apply the legal rules of
evidence, and may determine the admissibility, relevance, materiality
and weight of any evidence.


57.
The arbitral tribunal must make all reasonable efforts to conduct the
arbitral proceedings in the most efficient, expeditious and cost
effective manner as is appropriate in all the circumstances of the case.


58.
The arbitral tribunal may extend or abridge a period of time:


a. set in this Appendix, except the period specified in section 106; or

b. established by the tribunal.

Pre-Hearing Meeting


59.
Within 10 days after the arbitral tribunal is constituted, the tribunal
must convene a pre-hearing meeting of the parties to reach agreement and
to make any necessary orders on:


a. any procedural issues arising under this Appendix;


b. the procedure to be followed in the arbitration;


c. the time periods for taking steps in the arbitration;


d. the scheduling of hearings or meetings, if any;


e. any preliminary applications or objections; and


f. any other matter which will assist the arbitration to proceed in an
efficient and expeditious manner.


60.
The arbitral tribunal must prepare and distribute promptly to the
parties a written record of all the business transacted, and decisions
and orders made, at the pre-hearing meeting.


61.
The pre-hearing meeting may be conducted by conference call.


Place of Arbitration


62.
The arbitration will take place in the Province of British Columbia.


63.
Despite section 62, an arbitral tribunal may meet at any place it
considers appropriate for consultation among its members, for hearing
witnesses, experts or the parties, or for inspection of documents, goods
or other personal property, or for viewing physical locations.


Language


64.
If the arbitral tribunal determines that it was necessary or reasonable
for a party to incur the costs of translation of documents and oral
presentations in the circumstances of a particular disagreement, the
arbitral tribunal, on application of a party, may order that any of the
costs of that translation be deemed to be costs of the arbitration under
paragraph 44 of the Chapter.


State of Claim and Defence


65.
Within 21 days after the arbitral tribunal is constituted, the applicant
will deliver a written statement to all the Parties stating the facts
supporting its claim or position, the points at issue and the relief or
remedy sought.


66.
Within 15 days after receipt of the applicant's statement, each
respondent will deliver a written statement to all the Parties stating
its defence or position in respect of those particulars.


67.
Each party must attach to its statement a list of documents:

a. upon which the party intends to rely; and

b. which describes each document by kind, date, author, addressee and
subject matter.


68.
The parties may amend or supplement their statements, including the list
of documents, and deliver counter-claims and defences to counter-claims
during the course of the arbitral proceedings, unless the arbitral
tribunal considers it inappropriate to allow the amendment, supplement
or additional pleadings having regard to:

a. the delay in making it; and
b. any prejudice suffered by the other parties.

69.
The parties will deliver copies of all amended, supplemented or new
documents delivered under section 68 to all the Parties.


Disclosure


70.
The arbitral tribunal may order a party to produce, within a specified
time, any documents that:

a. have not been listed under section 67;

b. the party has in its care, custody or control; and


c. the arbitral tribunal considers to be relevant.


71.
Each party will allow the other party the necessary access at reasonable
times to inspect and take copies of all documents that the former party
has listed under section 67, or that the arbitral tribunal has
ordered to be produced under section 70.


72.
The parties will prepare and send to the arbitral tribunal an agreed
statement of facts within the time specified by the arbitral tribunal.


73.
Not later than 21 days before a hearing commences, each party will give
the other party:


a. the name and address of any witness and a written summary of the
witness's evidence; and


b. in the case of an expert witness, a written statement or report
prepared by the expert witness.


74.
Not later than 15 days before a hearing commences, each party will give
to the other party and the arbitral tribunal an assembly of all
documents to be introduced at the hearing.


Hearings and Written Proceedings


75.
The arbitral tribunal must decide whether to hold hearings for the
presentation of evidence or for oral argument, or whether the
proceedings will be conducted on the basis of documents and other
materials.


76.
Unless the parties have agreed that no hearings will be held, the
arbitral tribunal must hold hearings at an appropriate stage of the
proceedings, if so requested by a party.


77.
The arbitral tribunal must give the parties sufficient advance notice of
any hearing and of any meeting of the arbitral tribunal for the purpose
of inspection of documents, goods or other property or viewing any
physical location.


78.
All statements, documents or other information supplied to, or
applications made to, the arbitral tribunal by one party will be
communicated to the other party, and any expert report or evidentiary
document on which the arbitral tribunal may rely in making its decision
must be communicated to the parties.


79.
Unless ordered by the arbitral tribunal, all hearings and meetings in
arbitral proceedings, other than meetings of the arbitral tribunal, are
open to the public.


80.
The arbitral tribunal must schedule hearings to be held on consecutive
days until completion.


81.
All oral evidence must be taken in the presence of the arbitral tribunal
and all the parties unless a party is absent by default or has waived
the right to be present.


82.
The arbitral tribunal may order any individual to be examined by the
arbitral tribunal under oath or on affirmation in relation to the
disagreement and to produce before the arbitral tribunal all relevant
documents within the individual's care, custody or control.


83.
The document assemblies delivered under section 74 will be deemed to
have been entered into evidence at the hearing without further proof and
without being read out at the hearing, but a party may challenge the
admissibility of any document so introduced.


84.
If the arbitral tribunal considers it just and reasonable to do so, the
arbitral tribunal may permit a document that was not previously listed
under section 67, or produced as required under section 70 or 74, to be
introduced at the hearing, but the arbitral tribunal may take that
failure into account when fixing the costs to be awarded in the
arbitration.


85.
If the arbitral tribunal permits the evidence of a witness to be
presented as a written statement, the other party may require that
witness to be made available for cross examination at the hearing.


86.
The arbitral tribunal may order a witness to appear and give evidence,
and, in that event, the parties may cross examine that witness and call
evidence in rebuttal.


Default of a Party


87.
If, without showing sufficient cause, the applicant fails to communicate
its statement of claim in accordance with section 65, the arbitral
tribunal may terminate the proceedings.


88.
If, without showing sufficient cause, a respondent fails to communicate
its statement of defence in accordance with section 66, the arbitral
tribunal must continue the proceedings without treating that failure in
itself as an admission of the applicant's allegations.


89.
If, without showing sufficient cause, a party fails to appear at the
hearing or to produce documentary evidence, the arbitral tribunal may
continue the proceedings and make the arbitral award on the evidence
before it.


90.
Before terminating the proceedings under section 87, the arbitral
tribunal must give all respondents written notice providing an
opportunity to file a statement of claim in respect of the disagreement
within a specified period of time.


Expert Appointed by Arbitral Tribunal


91.
After consulting the parties, the arbitral tribunal may:


a. appoint one or more experts to report to it on specific issues to be
determined by the arbitral tribunal; and


b. for that purpose, require a party to give the expert any relevant
information or to produce, or to provide access to, any relevant
documents, goods or other personal property or land for inspection or
viewing.


92.
The arbitral tribunal must give a copy of the expert's report to the
parties who must have an opportunity to reply to it.


93.
If a party so requests, or if the arbitral tribunal considers it
necessary, the expert must, after delivery of a written or oral report,
participate in a hearing where the parties must have the opportunity to
cross examine the expert and to call any evidence in rebuttal.


94.
The expert must, on the request of a party:


a. make available to that party for examination all documents, goods or
other property in the expert's possession, and provided to the expert in
order to prepare a report; and


b. provide that party with a list of all documents, goods or other
personal property or land not in the expert's possession but which were
provided to or given access to the expert, and a description of the
location of those documents, goods or other personal property or lands.


Law Applicable to Substance of Dispute


95.
An arbitral tribunal must decide the disagreement in accordance with the
law.


96.
If the parties have expressly authorized it to do so, an arbitral
tribunal may decide the disagreement based upon equitable
considerations.


97.
In all cases, an arbitral tribunal must make its decisions in accordance
with the spirit and intent of the Agreement.


98.
Before a final arbitral award is made, an arbitral tribunal or a party,
with the agreement of the other parties, may refer a question of law to
the Supreme Court for a ruling.


99.
A party may appeal a decision in the Supreme Court under section 98 to
the British Columbia Court of Appeal with leave of the British Columbia
Court of Appeal. If the British Columbia Court of Appeal:


a. refuses to grant leave to a party to appeal a ruling of the Supreme
Court under section 98; or


b. hears an appeal from a ruling of the Supreme Court under section 98


the decision of the British Columbia Court of Appeal may not be appealed
to the Supreme Court of Canada.


100.
While a request under section 98 is pending, the arbitral tribunal may
continue the arbitral proceedings and make an arbitral award unless:


a. the costs occasioned by proceeding before the ruling of the Supreme
Court is made would unduly prejudice the parties; or

b. the parties agree otherwise.

Decision Making by Panel of Arbitrators


101.
In arbitral proceedings with more than one arbitrator, any decision of
the arbitral tribunal must be made by a majority of all its members.


102.
If there is no majority decision on a matter to be decided, the decision
of the chair of the tribunal is the decision of the tribunal.


103.
Notwithstanding section 101, if authorized by the parties or all the
members of the arbitral tribunal, questions of procedure may be decided
by the chair of the tribunal.


Settlement


104.
If, during arbitral proceedings, the parties settle the disagreement,
the arbitral tribunal must terminate the proceedings and, if requested
by the parties, must record the settlement in the form of an arbitral
award on agreed terms.


105.
An arbitral award on agreed terms:


a. must be made in accordance with sections 107 to 109;

b. must state that it is an arbitral award; and

c. has the same status and effect as any other arbitral award on the
substance of the disagreement.


Form and Content of Arbitral Award


106.
An arbitral tribunal must make its final award as soon as possible and,
in any event, not later than 60 days after:

a. the hearings have been closed; or
b. the final submission has been made
whichever is the later date.

107.
An arbitral award must be made in writing, and be signed by the members
of the arbitral tribunal.


108.
An arbitral award must state the reasons upon which it is based, unless:


a. the parties have agreed that no reasons are to be given; or


b. the award is an arbitral award on agreed terms under section 104 and
105.


109.
A signed copy of an arbitral award must be delivered to all the Parties
by the arbitral tribunal.


110.
At any time during the arbitral proceedings, an arbitral tribunal may
make an interim arbitral award on any matter with respect to which it
may make a final arbitral award.


111.
An arbitral tribunal may award interest.


112.
The costs of an arbitration are in the discretion of the arbitral
tribunal which, in making an order for costs, may:

a. include as costs:

i. the fees and expenses of the arbitrators and expert witnesses,

ii. legal fees and expenses of the parties,

iii. any administration fees of a neutral appointing authority, or


iv. any other expenses incurred in connection with the arbitral
proceedings; and

b. specify:
i. the party entitled to costs,
ii. the party who will pay the costs,

iii. subject to section 113, the amount of costs or method of
determining that amount, and

iv. the manner in which the costs will be paid.

113.
For purposes of section 112, an arbitral tribunal may award up to 50% of
the reasonable and necessary legal fees and expenses that were actually
incurred by a party, and if the legal services were provided by an
employee or employees of that party, the arbitral tribunal may fix an
amount or determine an hourly rate to be used in the calculation of the
cost of those employee legal fees.


Termination of Proceedings


114.
An arbitral tribunal must close any hearings if:


a. the parties advise they have no further evidence to give or
submissions to make; or


b. the tribunal considers further hearings to be unnecessary or
inappropriate.


115.
A final arbitral award, or an order of the arbitral tribunal under
section 116, terminates arbitral proceedings.


116.
An arbitral tribunal must issue an order for the termination of the
arbitral proceedings if:


a. the applicant withdraws its claim, unless the respondent objects to
the order and the arbitral tribunal recognizes a legitimate interest in
obtaining a final settlement of the disagreement;


b. the parties agree on the termination of the proceedings; or


c. the arbitral tribunal finds that the continuation of the proceedings
has for any other reason become unnecessary or impossible.


117.
Subject to sections 118 to 123 and section 127, the mandate of an
arbitral tribunal terminates with the termination of the arbitral
proceedings.



Correction and Interpretation of Award; Additional Award



118.
Within 30 days after receipt of an arbitral award:


a. a party may request the arbitral tribunal to correct in the tribunal
award any computation errors, any clerical or typographical errors or
any other errors of a similar nature; and


b. a party may, if agreed by all the parties, request the arbitral
tribunal to give an interpretation of a specific point or part of the
arbitral award.


119.
If an arbitral tribunal considers a request made under section 118 to be
justified, it must make the correction or give the interpretation within
30 days after receipt of the request and the interpretation will form
part of the arbitral award.


120.
An arbitral tribunal, on its own initiative, may correct any error of
the type referred to in subsection 118 (a) within 30 days after the date
of the arbitral award.


121.
A party may request, within 30 days after receipt of an arbitral award,
the arbitral tribunal to make an additional arbitral award respecting
claims presented in the arbitral proceedings but omitted from the
arbitral award.


122.
If the arbitral tribunal considers a request made under section 121 to
be justified, it must make an additional arbitral award within 60 days.


123.
Sections 107 to 109, and sections 111 to 113 apply to a correction or
interpretation of an arbitral award made under section 119 or 120, or to
an additional arbitral award made under section 122.


Application for Setting Aside Arbitral Award


124.
Subject to sections 129 and 131, an arbitral award may be set aside by
the Supreme Court, and no other court, only if a party making the
application establishes that:

a. the party making the application:

i. was not given proper notice of the appointment of an arbitrator or of
the arbitral proceedings, or


ii. was otherwise unable to present its case or respond to the other
party's case;

b. the arbitral award:

i. deals with a disagreement not contemplated by or not falling within
the terms of the submission to arbitration, or


ii. contains decisions on matters beyond the scope of the submission to
arbitration, provided that, if the decisions on matters submitted to
arbitration can be separated from those not so submitted, only that part
of the arbitral award that contains decisions on matters not submitted
to arbitration may be set aside;


c. the composition of the arbitral tribunal or the arbitral procedure
was not in accordance with the agreement of the parties, unless that
agreement was in conflict with a provision of this Appendix from which
the parties cannot derogate, or, failing any agreement, was not in
accordance with this Appendix;


d. the arbitral tribunal or a member of it has committed a corrupt or
fraudulent act; or

e. the award was obtained by fraud.

125.
An application for setting aside may not be made more than three months:


a. after the date on which the party making that application received
the arbitral award; or


b. if a request had been made under section 118 or 121, after the date
on which that request was disposed of by the arbitral tribunal.


126.
An application to set aside an award on the ground that the arbitral
tribunal or a member of it has committed a corrupt or fraudulent act or
that the award was obtained by fraud must be commenced:


a. within the period referred to in section 125; or


b. within 30 days after the applicant discovers or ought to have
discovered the fraud or corrupt or fraudulent act

whichever is the longer period.

127.
When asked to set aside an arbitral award, the Supreme Court may, where
it is appropriate and it is requested by a party, adjourn the
proceedings to set aside the arbitral award for a period of time
determined by it in order to give the arbitral tribunal an opportunity:

a. to resume the arbitral proceedings; or

b. to take any other action that, in the arbitral tribunal's opinion,
will eliminate the grounds for setting aside the arbitral award.


128.
A Party that was not a participating Party in an arbitration must be
given notice of an application under section 124, and is entitled to be
a party to, and make representation on, the application.


Appeal on Question of Law


129.
A party may appeal an arbitral award to the Supreme Court, with leave,
on a question of law, which the Supreme Court must grant only if it is
satisfied that:


a. the importance of the result of the arbitration to the parties
justifies the intervention of the court, and the determination of the
point of law may prevent a miscarriage of justice; or


b. the point of law is of general or public importance.


130.
An application for leave may not be made more than three months:


a. after the date on which the party making the application received the
arbitral award; or


b. if a request had been made under section 118 or 121, after the date
on which that request was disposed of by the arbitral tribunal.


131.
The Supreme Court may confirm, vary or set aside the arbitral award or
may remit the award to the arbitral tribunal with directions, including
the court's opinion on the question of law.


132.
When asked to set aside an arbitral award the Supreme Court may, where
it is appropriate and it is requested by a party, adjourn the
proceedings to set aside the arbitral award for a period of time
determined by it in order to give the arbitral tribunal an opportunity:

a. to resume the arbitral proceedings; or

b. to take any other action that, in the arbitral tribunal's opinion,
will eliminate the grounds for setting aside the arbitral award.


133.
A Party that was not a participating Party in an arbitration must be
given notice of an application under section 129 and is entitled to be a
party to, and make representation on the application.


134.
A party may appeal a decision of the Supreme Court under section 131 to
the British Columbia Court of Appeal with leave of the British Columbia
Court of Appeal.


135.
If the British Columbia Court of Appeal:


a. refuses to grant leave to a party to appeal a ruling of the Supreme
Court under section 131; or


b. hears an appeal from a ruling of the Supreme Court under section 131,


the decision of the British Columbia Court of Appeal may not be appealed
to the Supreme Court of Canada.


136.
No application may be made under section 129 in respect of:


a. an arbitral award based upon equitable considerations as permitted in
section 96; or


b. an arbitral award made in an arbitration commenced under paragraph 28
of the Chapter.


137.
No application for leave may be brought under section 129 in respect of
a ruling made by the Supreme Court under section 98 if the time for
appealing that ruling has already expired.


Recognition and Enforcement


138.
An arbitral award must be recognized as binding and, upon application to
the Supreme Court, must be enforced subject to paragraph 136 and 137 of
the Nisg̱a'a Government Chapter.


139.
Unless the Supreme Court orders otherwise, the party relying on an
arbitral award or applying for its enforcement must supply the duly
authenticated original arbitral award or a duly certified copy of it.


Ground for Refusing Enforcement


140.
Subject to sections 128 and 133, a Party that was not a participating
Party in an arbitration must not bring an application under section 124
or 129 to set the award aside but may resist enforcement of the award
against it by bringing an application under section 141.


141.
On the application of a Party that was not a participating Party in an
arbitration, the Supreme Court may make an order refusing to enforce
against that Party an arbitral award made under this Appendix if that
Party establishes that:

a. it was not given copies of:

i. the notice of arbitration or agreement to arbitrate, or


ii. the pleadings or all amendments and supplements to the pleadings;


b. the arbitral tribunal refused to add the Party as a participating
Party to the arbitration under paragraph 32 of the Chapter;

c. the arbitral award

i. deals with a disagreement not contemplated by or not falling within
the terms of the submission to arbitration, or


ii. contains decisions on matters beyond the scope of the submission to
arbitration


provided that, if the decisions on matters submitted to arbitration can
be separated from those not so submitted, that part of the arbitral
award which contains decisions on matters submitted to arbitration may
be recognized and enforced;


d. the arbitral award has not yet become binding on the parties or has
been set aside or suspended by a court;


e. the arbitral tribunal or a member of it has committed a corrupt or
fraudulent act; or

f. the award was obtained by fraud.


