




Southern Interior Development Initiative Trust Act
[SBC 2005] CHAPTER 39


Assented to November 24, 2005




Part 1 — Interpretation





Definitions




1


In this Act:



"Columbia-Kootenay region"

has the meaning prescribed by regulation;



"qualified individual"

means an individual who is not




(a)

an elected official of a municipality or a regional district,




(b)

a Member of the Legislative Assembly,




(c)

an employee of the government,




(d)

a member of the board of directors of the Southern Interior
Development Initiative Trust,




(e)

a member of a regional advisory committee, or




(f)

a person who is




(i)

the spouse, parent or child of any individual referred to in paragraph
(d) or (e), or




(ii)

any other relative residing with that individual;


"region"
means the Columbia-Kootenay region or the Thompson-Okanagan region;



"Regional Account"

means the account established under section 7 (2) (a);



"regional advisory committee"

means a regional advisory committee established under this Act;



"Southern Interior area"

means that area of British Columbia comprising the Columbia-Kootenay
region and the Thompson-Okanagan region;



"Southern Interior Development Initiative Trust"

means the Southern Interior Development Initiative Trust established
under section 5 (1);




"

Southern Interior one-time development allocation

"



means any money paid by the government to the Southern Interior
Development Initiative Trust, other than money paid for services
further to an agreement between the government and the Southern
Interior Development Initiative Trust;




"Thompson-Okanagan region"

has the meaning prescribed by regulation.




Part 2 — Southern Interior Development Initiative Trust



Division 1 — Regional Advisory Committees





Establishment of regional advisory committees




2

(1)


There is established, for each region, a regional advisory committee
comprising the following:




(a)

the mayors of each of the municipalities that




(i)

is within the region, and




(ii)

on the coming into force of this Act, has a population greater than
500;




(b)

the chairs of each regional district that is, in whole or in part,
within the region;




(c)

the Members of the Legislative Assembly who have been elected, in
whole or in part, by electors from the region.




(2)

The term of membership on a regional advisory committee for each
individual referred to in subsection (1) expires on the earlier of




(a)

the date that is 6 months after the coming into force of this Act, and




(b)

the date on which he or she ceases to hold the position referred to in
subsection (1).




(3)

Within 6 months after the coming into force of this Act, each of the
regional advisory committees must




(a)

appoint 4 directors of the Southern Interior Development Initiative
Trust in accordance with sections 6 (2) (a) and 8 (1), and




(b)

subject to section 3,




(i)

determine the size of, and the manner of appointing members to, the
regional advisory committee, and




(ii)

determine the role of, and the manner of appointing, the chair of the
regional advisory committee.




(4)

On the coming into force of this Act, the following persons are the
first chairs of the regional advisory committees:




(a)

for the regional advisory committee for the Columbia-Kootenay region,
the mayor of Nelson;




(b)

for the regional advisory committee for the Thompson-Okanagan region,
the mayor of Kamloops.




(5)

The first chair of a regional advisory committee must call and chair
the meeting or meetings necessary to allow that regional advisory
committee to perform its obligations under subsection (3).






Composition of regional advisory committees




3


A regional advisory committee, whether under section 2 (3) (b) or
otherwise, may from time to time determine the size of, and the manner
of appointing members to, the regional advisory committee and the role
of, and the manner of appointing, the chair of the regional advisory
committee, but in doing so the members of the regional advisory
committee must




(a)

ensure that the only persons who are eligible to become members of the
regional advisory committee are




(i)

elected officials of municipalities or regional districts that are, in
whole or in part, within the region, or




(ii)

Members of the Legislative Assembly who have been elected, in whole or
in part, by electors from the region,




(b)

provide an opportunity for municipalities or regional districts within
the region that have populations of less than 500 to be represented on
the regional advisory committee,




(c)

establish the terms of office for members of the regional advisory
committee, and




(d)

ensure that if a member of the regional advisory committee ceases to
meet the qualifications for membership set out under paragraph (a),
that individual immediately ceases to be a member of the regional
advisory committee.






Procedures




4


The members of a regional advisory committee must appoint one of their
number as chair and may, subject to section 3, otherwise establish
their own procedures.




Division 2 — Establishment and Structure of the Southern Interior
Development Initiative Trust





Southern Interior Development Initiative Trust established




5

(1)


There is established a corporation known as the Southern Interior
Development Initiative Trust consisting of the directors referred to
in section 6.




(2)

The Southern Interior Development Initiative Trust has the powers and
capacity of an individual of full capacity.




(3)

The Southern Interior Development Initiative Trust is not an agent of
the government.






Directors of the Southern Interior Development Initiative Trust




6

(1)


Directors of the Southern Interior Development Initiative Trust must
be appointed in accordance with this Division.




(2)

Subject to section 7 and to subsection (8) of this section, the board
of directors of the Southern Interior Development Initiative Trust is
to consist of 13 individuals of whom




(a)

8 are to be appointed by the regional advisory committees, with each
of the 2 regional advisory committees appointing 4 of their number as
directors, and




(b)

5 are to be appointed by the Lieutenant Governor in Council.




(3)

Subject to section 7 (3), the term of office of a director of the
Southern Interior Development Initiative Trust is,




(a)

if the director is appointed under subsection (2) (a) of this section,
2 years from the expiry of the term of the retiring director that he
or she replaces, and




(b)

if the director is appointed under subsection (2) (b) of this section,
3 years from the expiry of the term of the retiring director whom he
or she replaces.




(4)

Nothing in this Act prevents




(a)

a regional advisory committee from removing and replacing, in
accordance with any procedures it has established for that purpose,
any individual the regional advisory committee has appointed as a
director of the Southern Interior Development Initiative Trust, and




(b)

the Lieutenant Governor in Council from removing and replacing any
individual the Lieutenant Governor in Council has appointed as a
director of the Southern Interior Development Initiative Trust.




(5)

If a director is removed and replaced under subsection (4),




(a)

the regional advisory committee or the Lieutenant Governor in Council,
as the case may be, must promptly notify the directors of the Southern
Interior Development Initiative Trust of the replacement appointment,
and




(b)

the term of office of the replacement director is the remainder of the
term of the director he or she replaces.




(6)

A director of the Southern Interior Development Initiative Trust is
removed as, and ceases to be, a director of the Southern Interior
Development Initiative Trust on the passing of a resolution to that
effect by all of the remaining directors.




(7)

An act or proceeding of the directors of the Southern Interior
Development Initiative Trust is not invalid merely because fewer than
the number of directors required by subsection (2) are in office or in
attendance.




(8)

An individual who is a Member of the Legislative Assembly must not be
appointed as a director of the Southern Interior Development
Initiative Trust.






First directors of the Southern Interior Development Initiative Trust




7

(1)


On the coming into force of this Act, the first directors of the
Southern Interior Development Initiative Trust are




(a)

from the regions, the following persons:




(i)

from the Columbia-Kootenay region, the mayors of Cranbrook, Trail,
Golden and Grand Forks;




(ii)

from the Thompson-Okanagan region, the mayors of Kelowna, Vernon,
Princeton and Salmon Arm, and




(b)

5 individuals appointed as directors by the Lieutenant Governor in
Council.




(2)

The first directors of the Southern Interior Development Initiative
Trust




(a)

must establish a Regional Account,




(b)

must receive the Southern Interior one-time development allocation and
deposit it into the Regional Account,




(c)

subject to section 22, may invest any or all of the Southern Interior
one-time development allocation and any other money in the Regional
Account, and




(d)

subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) of this subsection and to section 20
(2), must not make any use of the Southern Interior one-time
development allocation.




(3)

The term of office of the first directors of the Southern Interior
Development Initiative Trust expires 6 months after the date of the
coming into force of this Act.






Subsequent directors




8

(1)


On or before the expiry of the term of any directors it appoints under
section 6 (2) (a) and on or before the expiry of the term of the
directors from its region referred to in section 7 (1) (a), a regional
advisory committee must appoint 4 of their number as directors to
replace the retiring directors, and must promptly notify the directors
of the Southern Interior Development Initiative Trust of those
replacement appointments.




(2)

On or before the expiry of the term of directors appointed under
section 6 (2) (b) or 7 (1) (b), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
must appoint 5 individuals to replace those directors, and must
promptly notify the directors of the Southern Interior Development
Initiative Trust of those appointments.






Vacancies among the directors




9

(1)


A director of the Southern Interior Development Initiative Trust
ceases to hold office when




(a)

the director's term of office expires,




(b)

the director ceases to be a member of the regional advisory committee
by which he or she was appointed, or




(c)

the director dies, resigns or is removed from office.




(2)

If one of the directors of the Southern Interior Development
Initiative Trust ceases to hold office, a replacement for that
director must be appointed in the same manner as that director was
appointed.




(3)

A replacement director appointed under subsection (2) holds office
until the end of the term of the director he or she replaces.






Proceedings of directors




10

(1)


The directors of the Southern Interior Development Initiative Trust




(a)

must appoint one of their number as chair, and




(b)

may, subject to this Division, otherwise establish their own
procedures.




(2)

Subject to section 22, the directors of the Southern Interior
Development Initiative Trust may invest any or all of the Southern
Interior one-time development allocation.




(3)

In appointing a chief executive officer and a chief financial officer
under section 11 (1) and a review committee under section 26 (1), the
directors are to be guided by the guidelines set out in the following
as amended or replaced from time to time:




(a)

the

Governance and Disclosure Guidelines for Governing Boards of British
Columbia Public Sector Organizations

published by the British Columbia Board Resourcing and Development
Office;




(b)

the

Review of the Governance Framework for Canada's Crown Corporations —
Meeting the Expectations of Canadians

published by the Treasury Board of Canada Secretariat.






Appointment of chief executive officer and chief financial officer




11

(1)


Subject to section 10 (3), the directors must appoint a qualified
individual as the chief executive officer of the Southern Interior
Development Initiative Trust, and the same or a different qualified
individual as the chief financial officer of the Southern Interior
Development Initiative Trust, to carry out




(a)

the functions and duties of the chief executive officer and chief
financial officer, respectively, under this Act, and




(b)

the functions and duties that the directors specify.




(2)

The directors may set the remuneration of the chief executive officer
and chief financial officer.






Officers and employees




12

(1)


The chief executive officer, to the extent authorized by the
directors, may do one or more of the following:




(a)

enter into contracts on behalf of the Southern Interior Development
Initiative Trust to carry out any of its purposes;




(b)

appoint other officers and employees considered necessary to carry out
the operations of the Southern Interior Development Initiative Trust;




(c)

define the duties and set the remuneration of the individuals
appointed under paragraph (b);




(d)

provide a system of organization to establish responsibility and
promote efficiency.




(2)

The

Public Service Act

, the

Public Service Benefit Plan Act

, the

Public Sector Pension Plans Act

and the

Public Service Labour Relations Act

do not apply to the Southern Interior Development Initiative Trust,
the chief executive officer, the chief financial officer or a
director, officer or employee of the Southern Interior Development
Initiative Trust.






Operating expenses and remuneration




13

(1)


The directors may use money from the Regional Account to satisfy those
expenses that are reasonably and necessarily incurred in order to
allow the directors and officers to perform their obligations under
this Act.




(2)

A director of the Southern Interior Development Initiative Trust must
not accept remuneration from that corporation other than for
reasonable travelling and out of pocket expenses necessarily incurred
by the director in discharging his or her duties.




Part 3 — Public Accountability





Strategic plans




14

(1)


For the purposes of public accountability, the directors must prepare
strategic plans in accordance with this section.




(2)

The directors must




(a)

each year establish a 3 year strategic plan for the Southern Interior
Development Initiative Trust including goals for each year of the
strategic plan relating to the fulfillment of the purposes identified
in section 20 in relation to the Regional Account,




(b)

provide a copy of each strategic plan prepared under this section to
each of the regional advisory committees, and




(c)

publish each strategic plan prepared under this section in a manner
that can reasonably be expected to bring the plan to the attention of
the public.




(3)

The directors must prepare




(a)

the first strategic plan required under subsection (1) on or before
the earlier of




(i)

the date on which the Southern Interior Development Initiative Trust
makes any of the payments contemplated by section 20, and




(ii)

the first anniversary of the coming into force of this section, and




(b)

after that, a strategic plan before the first day of each fiscal year
of the Southern Interior Development Initiative Trust.






Annual reports




15

(1)


Within 4 months after the end of each fiscal year of the Southern
Interior Development Initiative Trust, the directors must




(a)

prepare an annual report that complies with subsection (2) (a), and




(b)

prepare, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles,
financial statements for the Southern Interior Development Initiative
Trust for that fiscal year and have those financial statements audited
in accordance with section 16.




(2)

The directors must,




(a)

in each annual report referred to in subsection (1) of this section,




(i)

report on the goals set by the directors for the preceding fiscal year
under section 14 (2), indicate how, if at all, those goals have been
met and detail how those achievements met the intent of the purposes
identified in section 20 in relation to the Regional Account,




(ii)

compare actual results for the preceding fiscal year with the expected
results identified in the strategic plan for that fiscal year, and




(iii)

include the audited financial statements referred to in subsection (1)
(b),




(b)

provide a copy of that annual report to each of the regional advisory
committees, and




(c)

publish each annual report in a manner that can reasonably be expected
to bring the annual report to the attention of the public.






Audit




16

(1)


The Southern Interior Development Initiative Trust must, on or before
the end of each fiscal year, appoint, as auditor for the Southern
Interior Development Initiative Trust, an individual who is authorized
to be an auditor of a company under section 205 of the

Business Corporations Act

to audit the accounts, transactions and financial statements of the
Southern Interior Development Initiative Trust for the following
fiscal year.




(2)

The accounts, transactions and financial statements of the Southern
Interior Development Initiative Trust must, at least once in every
year, be audited and reported on by the auditor and the costs of the
audit must be paid by the Southern Interior Development Initiative
Trust.




(3)

An oral or written statement or report made under this Act by the
auditor or a former auditor of the Southern Interior Development
Initiative Trust has qualified privilege.




Part 4 — Allocations





Limit on the Southern Interior one-time development allocation




17

(
1
)


Despite any other enactment, if the government makes Southern Interior
one-time development allocation payments to the Southern Interior
Development Initiative Trust, the total of those payments must not
exceed
$60 million
.





(
2
)



Section 7 (2) (b), (c) and (d) applies to the directors of the
Southern Interior Development Initiative Trust.







Management of Regional Account




18

(1)


The Southern Interior Development Initiative Trust must manage the
Regional Account.




(2)

If any donation is made to the Southern Interior Development
Initiative Trust, the directors of the Southern Interior Development
Initiative Trust must deposit that money into the Regional Account.






Interest and other income on invested money




19


The interest or other income earned in relation to the Regional
Account must be paid into that account.






Purpose of Regional Account




20

(1)


The purpose of the Regional Account is to support investment in the
following in the Southern Interior area:




(a)

forestry;




(b)

pine beetle recovery;




(c)

transportation;




(d)

tourism;




(e)

mining;





(
f
)


[Repealed 2023-47-118.]




(g)

small business;




(h)

economic development;




(i)

energy;




(j)

agriculture;





(
k
)


technology and innovation.




(2)

Without limiting section 18 (1), money may be paid out of the Regional
Account for any of the purposes referred to in subsection (1) or
section 13, including, without limitation, any payments required under
sections 11 (2) and 12 (1) (c).






Regional advisory committees may advise on projects




21

(1)


Each regional advisory committee may identify, for the directors of
the Southern Interior Development Initiative Trust, projects that the
regional advisory committee considers are appropriate for application
of the money in the Regional Account.




(2)

The directors of the Southern Interior Development Initiative Trust
may reject any recommendation made to them by a regional advisory
committee under subsection (1).






Investments




22


The Southern Interior Development Initiative Trust must invest the
Southern Interior one-time development allocation, and any other money
in the Regional Account, only as permitted under the provisions of the

Trustee Act

respecting the investment of trust property by a trustee.




Part 5 — General





Winding up




23

(1)


Promptly after the Regional Account has been reduced to a nil balance,
the directors must




(a)

in accordance with the direction of the regional advisory committees,
distribute the remaining assets of the Southern Interior Development
Initiative Trust, if any,




(i)

firstly in satisfaction of any outstanding liabilities of the Southern
Interior Development Initiative Trust, and




(ii)

after that, to the municipalities and regional districts in the
Southern Interior area, or to any of them, in the proportions or
amounts the regional advisory committee may direct,




(b)

close the account, and




(c)

publish notice of the closing of the account, and the consequent
dissolution of the Southern Interior Development Initiative Trust, in
a manner that can reasonably be expected to bring those matters to the
attention of the public.




(2)

On the closing of the Regional Account,




(a)

the Southern Interior Development Initiative Trust is dissolved and
disestablished,




(b)

the appointment of each member of the board of directors of the
Southern Interior Development Initiative Trust is rescinded, and




(c)

the regional advisory committees are dissolved and disestablished.






Offence Act




24


Section 5 of the

Offence Act

does not apply to this Act.






Power to make regulations




25


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
section 41 of the

Interpretation Act

.






Review of this Act




26

(1)


Subject to section 10 (3), on or before the fifth anniversary of the
coming into force of this section, and on or before every fifth
anniversary after that, the directors must, if the Southern Interior
Development Initiative Trust has not by that date been dissolved and
disestablished under section 23, appoint a committee of qualified
individuals to review this Act and evaluate how it is functioning.




(2)

The review committee may consult with business, labour, education
providers, government and any other person or organization it
considers appropriate.




(3)

If a review committee is appointed, it must publish a report of its
findings in a manner that can reasonably be expected to bring the
report to the attention of the public.






Commencement




27


This Act comes into force by regulation of the Lieutenant Governor in
Council.




