




Tourism Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 453






Duties, powers and functions




1

(1)


The duties, powers and functions of the minister include the
following:




(a)

encouraging development of the tourism industry in British Columbia;




(b)

providing information services for tourists;




(c)

promoting tourism;




(d)

reflecting tourism interests in land and resource use and management
decisions;




(e)

encouraging the development of the motion picture industry in British
Columbia.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the minister may




(a)

develop policies, plans and programs that reflect the duties, powers
and functions set out in subsection (1),




(b)

encourage the enhancement of the standards of accommodation,
facilities, tourist services and related amenities and support
structures necessary to facilitate and support tourists in British
Columbia,




(c)

enhance the professionalism and job creation potential of the tourism
industry in British Columbia by




(i)

developing occupational standards and certification processes, and




(ii)

developing and sponsoring training programs, seminars and other
activities through which information can be shared and expertise
developed,




(d)

collect, evaluate and disseminate information regarding the following:




(i)

tourism markets and market potential;




(ii)

trends in tourist activities, expectations and needs;




(iii)

competing tourism markets;




(iv)

the availability and suitability of transportation and other
facilities and services supporting tourism activities;




(v)

tourism programs and activities;




(vi)

land and resources for tourism use,




(e)

provide tourists with travel services and with information on the
following:




(i)

accommodations;




(ii)

tourism destinations and facilities;




(iii)

tourist attractions;




(iv)

services available to tourists,




(f)

promote British Columbia as a tourism destination, and




(g)

negotiate and enter into agreements or arrangements relating to
tourism or any other matter referred to in this section,




(i)

subject to the approval of the Lieutenant Governor in Council, with
the government of a province or the government of Canada or any agency
of or other body created by any one or more of those governments, and




(ii)

with any other person.




(3)

Without limiting subsections (1) and (2), the minister may




(a)

sell or otherwise dispose of to any person, or authorize a person or
organization to sell or otherwise dispose of to any person, magazines,
informational material or other products or services related to the
promotion of tourism,




(b)

sell products referred to in paragraph (a) to a person for resale or
other disposition,




(c)

sell or otherwise dispose of advertising space in those products, and




(d)

establish the prices at which those products and services, and that
advertising space, may be sold or otherwise disposed of.




(4)

The minister may establish different prices for different classes of
services or products, including advertising space, for different types
of dispositions or for disposition to different classes of persons.






Power to make regulations




2


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
sectionÂ 41 of the

Interpretation Act

.




