




Transport of Dangerous Goods Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 458




Part 1 — Interpretation, Application and Exemption





Definitions




1


In this Act:


"analyst"
means




(a)

a person designated under section 6 (2), or




(b)

a member of a class of persons designated under section 6 (2);


"container"
includes equipment that




(a)

is carried on a chassis,




(b)

is strong enough to be suitable for repeated use, and




(c)

is designed to facilitate the transportation of goods without
intermediate reloading,


but does not include packaging, a road vehicle or a rail vehicle;



"dangerous goods"

means any product, substance or organism included by its nature or by
the regulations in any of the classes listed in the Schedule;


"facility"
includes an installation, plant, factory or place where goods are or
may be handled;



"federal Act"

means the

Transportation of Dangerous Goods Act

(Canada);


"handling"
means loading, packing or placing, unloading, unpacking or removing or
reloading, repacking or replacing dangerous goods in or from any
container, packaging, road vehicle or rail vehicle or at any facility
for the purposes of, in the course of or following transportation and
includes storing dangerous goods in the course of transportation;


"highway"
means a highway as defined in the

Motor Vehicle Act

;


"inspector"
means




(a)

a person designated under section 6 (1), or




(b)

a member of a class of persons designated under section 6 (1);


"packaging"
means a receptacle or enveloping material used to contain or protect
dangerous goods, but does not include a container, road vehicle or
rail vehicle;



"rail vehicle"

means a vehicle that is drawn, propelled or driven on rails by means
other than by muscular power;



"road vehicle"

means a vehicle as defined in the

Motor Vehicle Act

;



"safety mark"

includes a design, symbol, device, sign, label, placard, letter, word,
number, abbreviation or any combination of these that is to be
displayed on dangerous goods or containers, packaging, road vehicles
or rail vehicles used in the handling or transportation of dangerous
goods;



"safety requirements"

means requirements for




(a)

the handling or transportation of dangerous goods,




(b)

the reporting of handling or transportation of dangerous goods,




(c)

the training of persons engaged in the handling or transportation of
dangerous goods, and




(d)

the inspection of the handling or transportation of dangerous goods;



"safety standards"

means standards regulating the design, construction, equipping,
functioning or performance of containers, packaging, road vehicles or
rail vehicles used in the handling or transportation of dangerous
goods;



"shipping document"

means a document that accompanies dangerous goods being handled or
transported and that describes or contains information relating to the
goods and, without restricting the generality of this definition,
includes a bill of lading, cargo manifest, shipping order and waybill;



"transportation"

means transportation by a road vehicle or a rail vehicle or both.






Application




2


This Act does not apply to the handling or transportation of dangerous
goods if the dangerous goods are deemed under the regulations to be
handled or transported or both under the sole direction or control of
the Minister of National Defence for Canada.






Conflicting provisions




3

(1)


In the event of a conflict between




(a)

a regulation made under this Act, or a permit issued under this Act,
and




(b)

a regulation made under another Act,


the regulation made under this Act and the terms of the permit issued
under this Act prevail to the extent of the conflict.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply to a regulation made under the

Environmental Management Act

.






Exemption by permit




4

(1)


The minister, or a person designated by the minister, may issue a
permit exempting a person or dangerous goods from one or more
provisions of this Act.




(2)

A permit issued under this section may contain any terms that the
minister, or a person designated by the minister, considers
appropriate.




Part 2 — Requirements Respecting Transportation of Dangerous Goods





Safety requirements




5


A person must not handle or transport dangerous goods unless




(a)

all applicable prescribed safety requirements are complied with, and




(b)

all containers, packaging, road vehicles and rail vehicles comply with
the applicable prescribed safety standards and display the applicable
prescribed safety marks.




Part 3 — Inspection, Detention and Removal





Inspectors and analysts




6

(1)


If the minister is of the opinion that a person or the members of a
class of persons are qualified to act in the capacity of dangerous
goods inspector under this Act, the minister may designate the person
or class.




(2)

If the minister is of the opinion that a person or the members of a
class of persons are qualified to act in the capacity of analyst under
this Act, the minister may designate the person or class.






Inspector to show certificate of designation




7

(1)


An inspector must be provided with a certificate, in the prescribed
form, of the inspector's designation showing the purposes, classes of
dangerous goods, road vehicles or rail vehicles and the buildings or
places for which the inspector has been designated.




(2)

On entering or inspecting any building, place, container, packaging,
road vehicle or rail vehicle an inspector must, if so required,
produce the certificate to the person in charge of the thing or
material being entered or inspected.






Powers of inspectors




8

(1)


For the purpose of ensuring compliance with this Act, regulations
under it or a permit under section 4 and within the scope of the
inspector's certificate of designation, an inspector may, at any
reasonable time,




(a)

enter and inspect any building, place, road vehicle or rail vehicle
where the inspector believes, on reasonable and probable grounds, that
dangerous goods are being handled or transported, and




(b)

request the opening and inspection of, or open and inspect any
container, packaging, road vehicle or rail vehicle that the inspector
believes, on reasonable and probable grounds, is being used for the
handling or transportation of dangerous goods.




(2)

In the course of an inspection under subsection (1), an inspector may




(a)

for the purpose of analysis, take samples of anything found in the
building, place, container, package, road vehicle or rail vehicle
being inspected if the inspector believes, on reasonable and probable
grounds, the substance or thing to be dangerous goods, and




(b)

examine and remove, for the purpose of making copies and extracts of,
any books, records, shipping documents or other documents or papers
that the inspector believes, on reasonable and probable grounds,
contain information relevant to the administration or enforcement of
this Act and the regulations.




(3)

If an inspector is satisfied, on reasonable and probable grounds, that
any dangerous goods are being handled or transported other than in
compliance with the applicable prescribed safety marks, safety
requirements, safety standards and shipping documents, the inspector
must, wherever possible, request the taking of, or take, any measures
necessary to remedy the failure to comply.






Inspector's power to detain and remove




9

(1)


An inspector may exercise the powers under this section if satisfied,
on reasonable and probable grounds, that




(a)

there is occurring or has occurred a discharge, emission or escape of
dangerous goods from any container, packaging, road vehicle or rail
vehicle by means of which the dangerous goods are being handled or
transported,




(b)

there exists a serious and imminent danger of a discharge, emission or
escape of dangerous goods by reason of any condition occurring during
the handling or transportation of the dangerous goods, or




(c)

a provision of this Act or the regulations or a term of a permit is
being or has been contravened.




(2)

In circumstances referred to in subsection (1) the inspector may do
one or more of the following:




(a)

take measures that the inspector considers necessary in order to
prevent or reduce any serious and imminent danger to life, health,
property or the environment;




(b)

detain any dangerous goods, container, packaging, road vehicle or rail
vehicle that the inspector believes, on reasonable and probable
grounds, to be related to the discharge, emission or escape or
condition that has arisen or is related to the contravention that has
occurred;




(c)

remove or direct the removal of the detained goods, container,
packaging, road vehicle or rail vehicle to an appropriate place.




(3)

Any property detained under this section must be released after




(a)

the provisions of this Act, the regulations and the terms of a permit,
if any, have, in the opinion of the inspector, been complied with, or




(b)

the danger to life, health, property or the environment has, in the
opinion of the inspector, been prevented or adequately reduced, as the
case may be,

whichever occurs first.



(4)

All costs and charges of the detention of a road vehicle or rail
vehicle under subsection (2) are a lien on the road vehicle or rail
vehicle, as the case may be, and the lien may be enforced in the
manner provided under the

Warehouse Lien Act

.




(5)

Neither the government nor any person acting under the authority of
this section is liable for loss or damage arising from the detention
of goods, containers, packaging, a road vehicle or a rail vehicle or
the destruction or deterioration of anything detained under this
section.






Assistance to inspectors




10


A person must not, while an inspector is exercising powers or carrying
out duties and functions under this Act, do any of the following:




(a)

fail to comply with any reasonable request of the inspector;




(b)

knowingly make any false or misleading statement either verbally or in
writing to the inspector;




(c)

unless authorized by the inspector, remove, alter or interfere in any
way with anything removed, being inspected or detained by the
inspector;




(d)

otherwise obstruct or hinder the inspector.




Part 4 — Certificates and Reports





Certificate of inspection, detention or sampling




11


If an inspector inspects, detains or takes a sample of anything under
this Act the inspector must, on request, provide the person in charge
of it with a certificate, in the prescribed form, evidencing the
inspection, detention or taking of the sample, as the case may be.






Analyst's certificate or report as evidence




12


Subject to sections 14 and 15, a certificate or report appearing to
have been signed by an inspector or an analyst stating that the
inspector or analyst has inspected, analyzed or examined any road
vehicle, rail vehicle, packaging, container, shipping document,
product, substance or organism and stating the results of the
inspection, analysis or examination




(a)

is admissible in evidence in a prosecution for an offence under this
Act without proof of the signature or official character of the person
appearing to have signed the certificate or report, and




(b)

in the absence of any evidence to the contrary, is proof of the
statements contained in the certificate or report.






Copies or extracts of certificate or report as evidence




13


Subject to sections 14 and 15, a copy or an extract of a certificate
or report made by an inspector or analyst and appearing to have been
certified under an inspector's or analyst's signature as a true copy
or extract




(a)

is admissible in evidence in a prosecution for an offence under this
Act without proof of the signature or official character of the person
appearing to have signed the copy or extract of a certificate or
report, and




(b)

in the absence of any evidence to the contrary, has the same probative
force as the original document would have if it had been proved in the
ordinary way.






Cross examination of inspector may be permitted by court




14


The party against whom a certificate or report is produced under
section 12 or against whom a copy or extract is produced under
section 13 may, with leave of the court, require the attendance
of the inspector or analyst who signed or appears to have signed the
certificate, report, copy or extract for the purpose of a
cross-examination.






Notice of intention to introduce evidence




15


A certificate, report, copy or extract referred to in section 12 or 13
must not be received in evidence unless the party intending to produce
it has served on the party against whom it is intended to be produced
a notice of this intention together with a duplicate of the
certificate, report, copy or extract.




Part 5 — Offences and Penalties





Penalties




16

(1)


A person who contravenes section 5 or the terms of a permit issued
under section 4 commits an offence.




(2)

A person who commits an offence under subsection (1) is liable




(a)

on a first conviction, to a fine of not more than $50 000 or to a
term of imprisonment of not more than 2 years, or both, and




(b)

on a subsequent conviction, to a fine of not more than $100 000
or to a term of imprisonment of not more than 2 years, or both.




(3)

A person who contravenes section 10 or 21 (1) or (2) commits an
offence.




(4)

A person who commits an offence under subsection (3) is liable on
conviction to a fine of not more than $10 000 or to a term of
imprisonment of not more than one year, or both.




(5)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may provide in regulations that a
person, who is guilty of an offence established under the regulations
to this Act, is liable to




(a)

a fine of a prescribed amount not greater than $10 000,




(b)

a prescribed term of imprisonment of not longer than one year, or




(c)

both a prescribed fine and term of imprisonment that does not exceed
the maximum amount and term specified in paragraphs (a) and (b).






Defence of due diligence




17


Subject to section 18, in a prosecution for an offence against this
Act or the regulations, it is a defence for the person charged to
prove that the person took all reasonable measures to comply with this
Act.






Offence by employee or agent




18


In a prosecution for an offence against this Act or the regulations,
it is sufficient proof of the offence to establish that it was
committed by an employee or agent of the accused, whether or not the
employee or agent is identified or has been prosecuted for the
offence, unless the accused establishes that the offence was committed
without the accused's consent and that the accused took all reasonable
measures to prevent its commission.






Officers, directors and agents of corporation guilty of offence by
corporation




19


An officer, director or agent of a corporation, who directs,
authorizes, assents to, acquiesces in or participates in the
commission of an offence, is a party to and guilty of the offence and
is liable on conviction to the punishment provided for the offence,
whether or not the corporation has been prosecuted or convicted.






Time limit for bringing prosecution




20


No prosecution for an offence against this Act or the regulations may
be commenced more than 2 years after the day the alleged offence was
committed.




Part 6 — Miscellaneous





Duty to report discharge, emission or escape of dangerous goods




21

(1)


If a discharge, emission or escape of dangerous goods from any
container, packaging, road vehicle or rail vehicle occurs, the person
who, at that time, has the charge, management or control of the
dangerous goods must, in the manner and the circumstances established
by the regulations, report the discharge, emission or escape.




(2)

If a person is required to make a report under subsection (1), the
person must, as soon as possible, take all reasonable emergency
measures consistent with public safety to repair or remedy a dangerous
condition or to reduce or mitigate danger to life, health, property or
the environment that results or may reasonably be expected to result
from the discharge, emission or escape.




(3)

If an inspector is satisfied, on reasonable and probable grounds, that




(a)

a discharge, emission or escape referred to in subsection (1) has
occurred or might occur, and




(b)

immediate action is necessary in order to carry out any reasonable
emergency measures referred to in subsection (2),


the inspector may take the emergency measures or request that the
emergency measures be taken by a person the inspector considers
qualified to do so.




(4)

Any inspector or other person required, requested or authorized to
take reasonable emergency measures under subsection (2) or (3) may
enter and have access to any place or property and may do all
reasonable things in order to comply with either or both of those
subsections.




(5)

A person requested to act under subsection (3) is not personally
liable for any damage in respect of any act or omission in the course
of complying with the request, unless it is shown that the person did
not act reasonably in the circumstances.






Evidence of financial responsibility




22


The minister may require any person who engages in or who proposes to
engage in the transportation of dangerous goods to provide evidence of
financial responsibility in a form of insurance, an indemnity bond or
any other form satisfactory to the minister.






Local government control of transport on highways




23

(1)


A municipality may make bylaws with respect to highways under its
direction, control and management




(a)

designating the route and time of travel of road vehicles transporting
dangerous goods, and




(b)

prohibiting the carrying of dangerous goods on the highways specified
in the bylaw.




(2)

A bylaw under subsection (1) does not come into force until it is
approved by the minister.






Agreements with Canada




24

(1)


With the approval of the Lieutenant Governor in Council, the minister
may enter into agreements with the government of Canada with respect
to the administration and enforcement of




(a)

this Act and the regulations or any provision of this Act or the
regulations, and




(b)

the federal Act, or any provision of that Act or the regulations made
under it.




(2)

An agreement entered into under subsection (1) may provide for any
matters necessary for or incidental to the implementation,
administration or enforcement agreed on, or for the apportionment of
any costs, expenses or revenues arising from the agreement.






Power to make regulations




25

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
section 41 of the

Interpretation Act

.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations as follows:




(a)

specifying products, substances and organisms to be included in the
classes listed in the Schedule;




(b)

establishing divisions, subdivisions and groups of dangerous goods and
classes of dangerous goods;




(c)

specifying, for each product, substance and organism prescribed under
paragraph (a), the class listed in the Schedule and the division,
subdivision or group into which it falls;




(d)

determining or providing a manner of determining the class listed in
the Schedule and the division, subdivision or group into which any
dangerous goods not prescribed under paragraph (a) falls;




(e)

exempting from the application of this Act, the regulations or a
provision of this Act or the regulations, the handling or
transportation of dangerous goods




(i)

in specified quantities or concentrations,




(ii)

in specified circumstances,




(iii)

for specified purposes, or




(iv)

in specified containers, packaging, road vehicle or rail vehicle;




(f)

respecting the manner of identifying the quantities or concentrations
of dangerous goods exempted under paragraph (e);




(g)

respecting the circumstances in which any dangerous goods are deemed
to be under the sole direction or control of the Minister of National
Defence for Canada;




(h)

respecting the manner of applying for a permit;




(i)

respecting circumstances in which the handling or transportation of
dangerous goods is prohibited;




(j)

specifying dangerous goods that must not be handled or transported in
any circumstances;




(k)

respecting safety marks, safety requirements and safety standards of
general or particular application;




(l)

respecting shipping and other documents to be used in the handling or
transportation of dangerous goods, the information to be included in
those documents and the persons by whom and the manner in which these
documents are to be used and retained;




(m)

establishing circumstances in which fees are or are not payable for
inspections or permits under this Act and determining the amount of
those fees;




(n)

prescribing the forms of the certificates referred to in
sections 7 and 11;




(o)

establishing the manner of reporting and the information to be
included in the report under section 21 (1) and the circumstances in
which a report need not be made under that section;




(p)

providing for the appeal of a decision to issue or a refusal to issue
a permit and establishing rules and procedures respecting that appeal.




(3)

A regulation made under this section may adopt by reference, in whole
or in part and with any changes the Lieutenant Governor in Council
considers necessary, any code, standard or rule, as amended from time
to time.




Schedule




Class 1:

Explosives, including explosives within the meaning of the
Explosives Act
(Canada).



Class 2:

Gases; compressed, deeply refrigerated, liquefied or dissolved
under pressure.



Class 3:

Flammable and combustible liquids.



Class 4:

Flammable solids; substances liable to spontaneous combustion and
substances that on contact with water emit flammable gases.



Class 5:

Oxidizing substances; organic peroxides.



Class 6:

Poisonous (toxic) and infectious substances.



Class 7:

Radioactive materials and prescribed substances within the meaning
of the
Atomic Energy Control Act
(Canada).



Class 8:
Corrosives.


Class 9:

Miscellaneous products, substances or organisms that are
considered by the Lieutenant Governor in Council to be dangerous
to life, health, property or the environment when transported and
are prescribed to be included in this class.






