




Agricultural Land Commission Act
[SBC 2002] CHAPTER 36


Assented to May 30, 2002






Definitions




1

(1)


In this Act:



"additional residence"

means a residence on a parcel of agricultural land, other than the
principal residence;



"administrative region"

means an administrative region established under section 4.1;



"agreement in principle"

means a non-binding agreement, negotiated among a first nation
government, the Province and Canada in accordance with a process
facilitated by the British Columbia Treaty Commission, established
under section 3 of the

Treaty Commission Act

, that




(a)

has been approved by each party in accordance with the approval
process provided in the agreement in principle, and




(b)

contemplates that legislative authority over all or part of the
proposed settlement lands described in the agreement in principle
will, under a final agreement or a governance agreement and an
enactment of the Province or Canada, be provided to the first nation;



"agricultural land"

means land that




(a)

is included in the agricultural land reserve under section 15 (1.1),
17 (3.1) or 45 (1) of this Act, or




(b)

was included under a former Act as agricultural land or land in an
agricultural land reserve,


unless the land has been excluded from the agricultural land reserve
under this Act or from an agricultural land reserve under a former
Act;



"agricultural land reserve"

means the total of all agricultural land in British Columbia;


"alter"
means the following:




(a)

to alter the exterior of a structure so as to increase its size;




(b)

to move or alter the exterior walls or edges of a structure so as to
change its siting;



"approving officer"

means an approving officer as defined in the

Land Title Act

;


"authority"
means an agent of the government, a public body or a public officer
with whom the commission has an agreement under section 26 (1) (b) or
38;



"chief executive officer"

means the person appointed under section 8 (1);


"commission"
means the Provincial Agricultural Land Commission established under
section 4;


"construct"
means the following:




(a)

to build a new structure;




(b)

to place on land a new structure that is fully or partially
pre-fabricated;




(c)

to replace a structure, 75% or more of which has been substantially
damaged or destroyed;



"enactment of the Province or Canada"

includes an enactment as defined in the

Interpretation Act

(Canada);



"exclusion application"

means an application for exclusion made under section 29 (1);



"executive committee"

means the executive committee of the commission established under
section 10;


"farm use"




(a)

means an occupation or use of agricultural land for




(i)

farming land, plants, mushrooms, truffles or animals,




(ii)

a farm operation as defined in the

Farm Practices Protection (Right to Farm) Act

, or




(iii)

a purpose designated as a farm use by regulation, and




(b)

does not include a residential use or a soil or fill use;


"fill"
means any material brought onto agricultural land other than materials
exempted by regulation;



"first nation government"

means,




(a)

in relation to settlement lands, other than treaty lands, the
governing body that has legislative authority in relation to those
settlement lands,




(a.1)

in relation to treaty lands, the treaty first nation, and




(b)

in relation to proposed settlement lands, an aboriginal governing body
that




(i)

the first nation, in relation to which an agreement in principle
applying to those lands has been entered into, has organized and
established within its traditional territory in British Columbia, and




(ii)

has been mandated by the members of that first nation to enter into
treaty negotiations on their behalf in accordance with a process
facilitated by the British Columbia Treaty Commission, established
under section 3 of the

Treaty Commission Act

;


"former Act"
means the

Agricultural Land Reserve Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 10, or the

Land Reserve Commission Act

, S.B.C. 1999, c. 14;


"law"
, in relation to a first nation government described in paragraph (a)
or (a.1) of the definition of "first nation government", means a law
enacted by the first nation government under




(a)

a treaty and land claims agreement within the meaning of sections 25
and 35 of the
Constitution Act, 1982
,




(b)

a governance agreement among the Province, Canada and the first
nation, or




(c)

an enactment of the Province or Canada;



"local government"

means




(a)

in relation to land within a municipality, the municipal council,




(b)

in relation to land within an electoral area but not within a local
trust area under the

Islands Trust Act

, the board of the regional district, and




(c)

in relation to land within a local trust area under the

Islands Trust Act

, the local trust committee or the executive committee acting as a
local trust committee for that area;



"non-adhering residential use"

means any of the following:




(a)

an additional residence;




(b)

a principal residence having a total floor area that is more than
500 m
2
;




(c)

a use of a residential structure that contravenes the regulations;



"non-farm use"

means a use of agricultural land other than a farm use, a residential
use or a soil or fill use;



"notice to suspend negotiations"

means a notice to suspend negotiations sent by one party to an
agreement in principle to the other parties;


"official"
means the chief executive officer and any employee of the commission
or a person who is designated by name or title by the chief executive
officer to be an official;


"owner"
, subject to subsection (2), means




(a)

in relation to land, other than treaty lands, registered in the
records of the land title office, the person registered in those
records as the fee simple owner of the land,




(b)

in relation to settlement lands,




(i)

if an agreement under this Act between a first nation government and
the commission defines "owner" for the purposes of the application of
this Act to the settlement lands of the first nation, a person
described by that definition, and




(ii)

otherwise, the first nation government,




(c)

in relation to land that is vested, under an enactment, in a
municipality, a regional district or a local trust committee, the
municipality, regional district or local trust committee, as
applicable, and




(d)

in relation to Crown land, the government;


"panel"
means a panel established under section 11;


"parcel"
means land that is the subject of a single indefeasible title under
the

Land Title Act

;


"person"
includes a first nation government;



"principal residence"

means the residence permitted under section 20.1 (1) (a);



"proposed settlement lands"

means land described in an agreement in principle as the land that
will become, in whole or in part,




(a)

the treaty lands of the first nation under a final agreement, or




(b)

the settlement lands of the first nation under a governance agreement
among the Province, Canada and the first nation;



"residential structure"

means a structure used, during all or part of the year and whether
fully or partially, as




(a)

a residence,




(b)

if prescribed, accommodation, or




(c)

if prescribed, in relation to a residence or accommodation;



"residential use"





(a)

means a use of agricultural land for a residential structure, and




(b)

does not include a farm use or a soil or fill use;



"settlement lands"

means land, other than land located within a reserve as defined in the

Indian Act

(Canada), that is subject to the legislative authority of a first
nation under




(a)

a treaty and land claims agreement within the meaning of sections 25
and 35 of the
Constitution Act, 1982
,




(b)

a governance agreement among the Province, Canada and the first
nation, or




(c)

an enactment of the Province or Canada;


"soil"
includes the entire mantle of unconsolidated material above bedrock
other than minerals as defined in the

Mineral Tenure Act

;



"soil or fill use"





(a)

means the removal of soil from, or the placement of fill on,
agricultural land, and




(b)

does not include a farm use or a residential use;



"use or subdivision application"

means an application for permission made under any of the following:




(a)

section 20 (2) for a non-farm use;




(b)

section 20.1 (2) (a) for a non-adhering residential use;




(c)

section 20.3 (5) for a soil or fill use;




(d)

section 21 (2) for subdivision.




(2)

For the purposes of an inclusion application under section 17 (3), a
use or subdivision application or an exclusion application in relation
to proposed settlement lands, the first nation government may apply as
if it were the owner of those lands from the date that




(a)

an agreement in principle in relation to those lands is approved by
each party to it in accordance with the agreement in principle, or




(b)

if a notice to suspend negotiations has earlier taken effect, an
agreement among the parties to the agreement in principle to resume
negotiations takes effect,

until the earlier of the following dates:



(c)

the date an enactment of the Province or Canada establishes all or
part of the proposed settlement lands as settlement lands;




(d)

the date that a notice to suspend negotiations takes effect.




(3)

For the period that a first nation government is authorized to make an
application in relation to proposed settlement lands, the owner of
that land may not make an application.






Application of other Acts




2

(1)


This Act and the regulations are not subject to any other enactment,
whenever enacted, except the

Interpretation Act

, the

Environment and Land Use Act

and the

Environmental Management Act

and as provided in this Act.




(1.1)

Despite subsection (1) and section 3, if a regulation under the

Water Sustainability Act

requires that the commission consider a water sustainability plan in
making decisions in relation to an area that is subject to the water
sustainability plan, the commission must comply with the regulation.




(2)

Despite section 14 (2) of the

Interpretation Act

, this Act binds the government.






Power under other Acts




3


A minister or an agent of the government must not exercise a power
granted under another enactment except in accordance with this Act and
the regulations.






Commission established




4


The Provincial Agricultural Land Commission is established as a
corporation consisting of the members appointed under section 5.






Administrative regions




4.1


The following administrative regions are established, consisting of
the geographic areas of British Columbia as set out in the Schedule:




(a)

the Interior Administrative Region;




(b)

the Island Administrative Region;




(c)

the Kootenay Administrative Region;




(d)

the North Administrative Region;




(e)

the Okanagan Administrative Region;




(f)

the South Coast Administrative Region.






Repealed




4.2-4.3


[Repealed 2018-56-3.]






Commission members




5

(1)


The commission consists of at least 11 members appointed under this
section as follows:




(a)

the Lieutenant Governor in Council must appoint the chair;




(b)

the minister must appoint the other members after consulting with the
chair;




(c)

appointments must be made using a merit-based process to select
individuals who are knowledgeable in matters relating to agriculture,
land use planning, local government or first nation government;




(d)

members must be residents of administrative regions, with at least one
but no more than 3 members, other than the chair, representing each
region;




(e)

if more than one member represents the same administrative region,
each member must be a resident of a different regional district
incorporated under the

Local Government Act

.




(2)

The chair may appoint one or more vice chairs from the persons
appointed under subsection (1) (b).




(3)

If a member, other than the chair, ceases to be a resident of the
administrative region in which the member was a resident at the time
of appointment, the member's appointment expires on the date on which
the member's residency ceases.




(4)

If there is no member, other than the chair, who is a resident of a
particular administrative region, the minister must within 90 days
appoint a resident of that administrative region as a member in
accordance with subsection (1).




(5)

The members are the board of directors of the commission.






Application of
Administrative Tribunals Act
to commission generally




5.1


The following provisions of the

Administrative Tribunals Act

apply to the commission:




(a)

Part 1
[Interpretation and Application]
;




(b)

Part 2
[Appointments]
;




(c)

Part 3
[Clustering]
;




(d)

section 26 (6)
[decision of majority decision of panel]
;




(d.1)

section 30
[tribunal duties]
;




(e)

section 44

[tribunal without jurisdiction over constitutional questions]

;




(f)

section 46.3

[tribunal without jurisdiction to apply the Human Rights Code]

;




(g)

Part 8
[Immunities]
;




(h)

section 59.1
[surveys]
;




(i)

section 59.2
[reporting]
;




(j)

section 60 (1) (g) to (i) and (2)
[power to make regulations]
.






Purposes of the commission




6

(1)


The following are the purposes of the commission:




(a)

to preserve the agricultural land reserve;




(b)

to encourage farming of land within the agricultural land reserve in
collaboration with other communities of interest;




(c)

to encourage local governments, first nations, the government and its
agents to enable and accommodate farm use of land within the
agricultural land reserve and uses compatible with agriculture in
their plans, bylaws and policies.




(2)

The commission, to fulfill its purposes under subsection (1), must
give priority to protecting and enhancing all of the following in
exercising its powers and performing its duties under this Act:




(a)

the size, integrity and continuity of the land base of the
agricultural land reserve;




(b)

the use of the agricultural land reserve for farm use.






Commission as agent of the government




7


The commission is an agent of the government.






Staff of the commission




8

(1)


On consultation with the chair of the commission, the Lieutenant
Governor in Council may appoint, during pleasure, a chief executive
officer of the commission, establish the terms of the appointment and
set the remuneration of the chief executive officer.




(2)

The commission may determine the duties of the chief executive
officer.




(3)

The chief executive officer may appoint other officers and employees
necessary for the operations of the commission, determine their duties
and set their remuneration.




(4)

The

Public Service Act

and the

Public Service Labour Relations Act

apply to the commission and its officers and employees other than the
chief executive officer, except that the references to the agency head
and a deputy minister in section 22 of the

Public Service Act

are to be read as references to the chief executive officer.




(5)

The chief executive officer may retain consultants considered
advisable and may set their remuneration.






Operation of the commission




9


The commission may pass resolutions and bylaws it considers necessary
or advisable for the management and conduct of its affairs, the
exercise of its powers and the performance of its duties.






Executive committee




10

(1)


An executive committee of the commission is established, comprising
the chair of the commission and the vice chairs.




(2)

The chair of the commission is the chair of the executive committee.




(3)

The commission may delegate to the executive committee any of its
powers or duties.




(4)

In relation to a matter delegated by the commission to the executive
committee,




(a)

the executive committee has all the powers and duties of the
commission, and




(b)

a decision of the executive committee is for all purposes a decision
of the commission.






Establishment of panels




11

(1)


The chair of the commission may establish panels consisting of 2 or
more members of the commission.




(2)

For the purpose of establishing panels, the chair may consider
administrative regions, expertise of panel members, the type of
application under consideration and any other criteria the chair may
determine.




(3)

The chair may designate a member of the commission to chair a panel.




(4)

For the purpose of exercising a power or performing a duty under this
Act, the commission, a panel and the executive committee may rely on
advice, information or findings from any panel.






What panels may do




11.1

(1)


The chair of the commission may refer to a panel any of the following:




(a)

subject to subsection (2), a power or duty of the commission under
this Act;




(b)

without limiting paragraph (a), the reconsideration of a decision for
the purposes of section 33;




(c)

the provision of advice, information or findings to the commission,
the executive committee or another panel.




(2)

The chair must not refer to a panel any of the following:




(a)

the power to determine an application




(i)

that may be of provincial importance,




(ii)

that raises an issue that is novel or is otherwise of general
importance for the administration of the Act, or




(iii)

if the determination may substantively affect more than one
administrative region;




(b)

an application




(i)

for which the power to decide has been delegated under
section 26, or




(ii)

that the chief executive officer may approve under section 27;




(c)

a reconsideration under section 33.1 of a decision made by a panel.




(3)

In relation to an application or other matter referred to a panel,




(a)

the panel has all the powers and duties of the commission, and




(b)

a decision made by the panel is for all purposes a decision of the
commission.






Repealed




11.2


[Repealed 2019-32-9.]






Financial and corporate matters




12

(1)


The financial year end of the commission is March 31 and the Minister
of Finance is the fiscal agent of the commission.




(2) and (2.1)

[Repealed 2019-32-10.]




(3)

Subject to subsection (4), the

Business Corporations Act

does not apply to the commission.




(4)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council, by order, may declare that
specified provisions of the

Business Corporations Act

apply to the commission.






Repealed




13


[Repealed 2019-32-10.]






Completion of proceedings




14

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), a member of the commission may take up and
carry on to completion any proceeding commenced but not completed
before the member's appointment.




(2)

A member of the commission who was not present at a meeting to
determine an application or other matter may vote on the application
or matter only if a summary of the meeting is given to the member
before the vote.






Inclusion of land in agricultural land reserve by the commission




15

(1)


For the purposes of section 6, the commission may designate land,
including Crown land, as agricultural land if the commission is
satisfied that the land is suitable for farm use.




(1.1)

Land designated as agricultural land under subsection (1) is included,
on designation, in the agricultural land reserve.




(2)

If the final agreement of a treaty first nation provides that the
treaty lands of the treaty first nation may not be designated as
agricultural land without the consent of the treaty first nation, the
commission may not exercise the authority under subsection (1) in
relation to those treaty lands without the consent of the treaty first
nation.






Repealed




16


[Repealed 2018-56-7.]






Inclusion applications




17

(1)


Subject to subsection (1.1), if the commission considers that an
approval under this subsection carries out the intent of this Act, the
commission may approve the inclusion in the agricultural land reserve




(a)

on the commission's own initiative, of any land,




(b)

on application of a local government, of land within the local
government's jurisdiction, and




(c)

on application of a first nation government, of land within the first
nation's settlement lands.




(1.1)

If section 15 (2) applies in relation to treaty lands, an approval
under subsection (1) (a) of this section in respect of those
treaty lands may be made only with the consent of the treaty first
nation.




(2)

For a matter under subsection (1), a public hearing must be held in
the manner, and after giving the notice, required by the regulations,
by




(a)

the commission, if the commission is acting on its own initiative,




(b)

the local government before making an application, and




(c)

the first nation government before making an application.




(3)

On application by an owner of land, the commission may designate all
or part of the land described in the application as land within the
agricultural land reserve if the commission considers that the
designation carries out the intent of this Act.




(3.1)

Land designated as land within the agricultural land reserve under
subsection (3) is included, on designation, in the agricultural land
reserve.




(4)

A decision of the commission granting an application under subsection
(3) in relation to proposed settlement lands may not be made effective
unless and until those lands are established, in whole or in part, as
settlement lands.




(5)

Unless a decision granting an application under subsection (3) first
becomes effective under subsection (4), the decision expires on the
earlier of the following dates:




(a)

the date the decision expires according to its terms;




(b)

the date that a notice to suspend negotiations takes effect.






Agricultural land to remain in reserve unless excluded




17.1


Agricultural land may be removed from the agricultural land reserve
only by exclusion under section 29.1 (2) (b),
30 (1) (a) or 45 (1).






Restrictions on approving land uses and subdivision




18

(1)


In this section:



"approving body"

means one or more of the following:




(a)

a local government, a first nation government or an authority;




(b)

a board or other agency established by a local government, a first
nation government or an authority;




(c)

a person or agency that enters into an agreement under the

Local Services Act

;



"permitted non-farm use"

means a non-farm use that is permitted under section 25 or 45 or the
regulations.




(2)

An approving body may approve or permit a non-farm use of agricultural
land only if the non-farm use is a permitted non-farm use.




(3)

An approving body may approve or permit a building or structure to be
constructed or altered on agricultural land only if the building or
structure




(a)

is not a residential structure and will be used for a farm use or
permitted non-farm use,




(b)

is a principal residence and




(i)

is of a size and is sited in accordance with section 20.1 (1), or




(ii)

is permitted under section 25 or 45 or the regulations,




(c)

is an additional residence and is permitted under section 25 or 45 or
the regulations, or




(d)

is a residential structure other than a residence and




(i)

is of a size and is sited in accordance with the regulations or as
permitted under an application made in accordance with the
regulations, and




(ii)

will be used as permitted under section 25 or 45 or the regulations.




(4)

An approving body may approve or permit a soil or fill use of
agricultural land only if the soil or fill use is permitted under
section 20.3, 25 or 45.




(5)

The following persons may not approve a subdivision of land that would
cause agricultural land to be subdivided unless the subdivision is
permitted under section 25 or 45 or the regulations:




(a)

an approving officer under the

Land Title Act

, the

Local Government Act

or the

Strata Property Act

;




(b)

a person who exercises the powers of an approving officer under any
other Act.






Notice of statutory right of way




18.1

(1)


In this section,
"statutory right of way"
means a statutory right of way as described in section 218 of the

Land Title Act

that extends fully or partially over land within the agricultural land
reserve.




(2)

Before applying to register a charge granting or otherwise creating a
statutory right of way, the applicant must give notice, in the
prescribed form and manner, to the commission.




(3)

A Registrar of Titles must not register a charge granting or otherwise
creating a statutory right of way unless the application to register
the charge is accompanied by proof, given in the prescribed form and
manner, that notice has been given as required under subsection (2) of
this section.






Registration restrictions




19

(1)


In this section,
"plan"
means the following:




(a)

a subdivision plan, reference plan, explanatory plan or other plan
showing subdivision of land;




(b)

a statutory right of way plan allowed under section 114 of the

Land Title Act

.




(2)

Unless the subdivision of agricultural land is permitted under this
Act, a Registrar of Titles must not, under the

Land Title Act

or the

Strata Property Act

, do either of the following things if it would cause the subdivision
of agricultural land:




(a)

accept an application for the deposit of a plan;




(b)

permit a new parcel of land to be created by a metes and bounds
description or an abbreviated description.






Non-farm use of land within agricultural land reserve




20

(1)


A person must not use agricultural land for a non-farm use unless
permitted under section 25 or 45 or the regulations.




(2)

A person may apply to the commission for permission under section 25
for a non-farm use of agricultural land if the person




(a)

is an owner of the agricultural land, or




(b)

has a right of entry, granted under an enactment, to the agricultural
land.






Residential use of agricultural land




20.1

(1)


Unless permitted under section 20.2, 25 or 45 or the regulations, an
owner of agricultural land who constructs, alters or uses a
residential structure on the agricultural land must comply with all of
the following:




(a)

the agricultural land may have no more than one residence per parcel;




(b)

the total floor area of a principal residence must be 500 m
2
or less;




(c)

the residential structure must be sized, sited and used, in accordance
with all applicable regulations.




(2)

An owner may apply




(a)

to the commission for permission under section 25 for a non-adhering
residential use, or




(b)

in the manner set out in the regulations for a variation of or
exemption from a regulation with respect to size or siting.






Pre-existing residential structures




20.2

(1)


In this section:



"as designed"

means as stated or shown in




(a)

a design, proposal or other plan approved under or accepted in support
of an authorization, or




(b)

a design or plan finalized, before the date this section comes into
force, by an architect or engineer or, if none, the designer of the
residence, if no authorizations are needed to construct or alter the
residence;



"authorization"

means a permit or other authorization, issued under an enactment, to
construct or alter a residence;



"pre-existing residential structure"

means a residential structure that exists on agricultural land on the
date this section comes into force, and




(a)

is an additional residence for which all required authorizations to
construct or alter the residence were granted,




(b)

is a principal residence having a total floor area of more than 500 m
2
, or




(c)

is of a size or is sited in contravention of a regulation;



"unfinished pre-existing residence"

means a residence to which all of the conditions in paragraphs (a) and
(b), and either paragraph (c) or paragraph (d), apply:




(a)

the residence, if completed as designed, will be an additional
residence or have a total floor area of more than 500 m
2
;




(b)

from the date construction or alteration of the residence began until
completion, the construction or alteration




(i)

is carried out in accordance with all applicable authorizations and
enactments, and




(ii)

continues without interruption, other than work stoppages considered
reasonable in the building industry;




(c)

in the case of a residence that, on completion, will be an additional
residence,




(i)

all required authorizations to construct or alter the residence were
granted, and




(ii)

construction of the foundation of the residence, or alteration of the
residence, had substantially begun


before the date this section comes into force;




(d)

in the case of a residence that, on completion, will be a primary
residence, either




(i)

all required authorizations to construct or alter the residence were
granted before the date this section comes into force and construction
of the foundation of the residence, or alteration of the residence,
substantially begins on or before November 5, 2019, or




(ii)

if no authorizations to construct or alter the residence are required,
construction of the foundation of the residence, or alteration of the
residence, had substantially begun before the date this section comes
into force.




(2)

Despite section 20.1 (1), an owner of agricultural land may, on or
after the date this section comes into force, do one or more of the
following:




(a)

complete construction or alteration of an unfinished pre-existing
residence that




(i)

is a principal residence, but only if, on completion, the total floor
area is as designed or less, or




(ii)

is an additional residence, and




(b)

alter a pre-existing residential structure, but only if, on
completion, the alteration will lead to no further contravention of
the Act or regulations.






Soil or fill use




20.3

(1)


A person must not remove soil from or place fill on agricultural land
unless one of the following applies:




(a)

the removal or placement is permitted under section 25 or 45 and the
removal or placement is done in accordance with the permission;




(b)

the removal or placement is permitted under the regulations and the
removal or placement is done in accordance with the regulations;




(c)

the person




(i)

is an owner of the agricultural land, or has a right of entry, granted
under an enactment, to the agricultural land,




(ii)

first submits to the chief executive officer the prescribed fee and
notice of the person's intent, in the form and manner required by the
chief executive officer, and




(iii)

receives approval under subsection (2) (b) and removes the soil or
places the fill in accordance with the approval, or is a person to
whom subsection (4) applies.




(2)

If the chief executive officer receives the fee and notice submitted
under subsection (1) (c) (ii), the chief executive officer must do one
or more of the following:




(a)

request further information from the person who gave the notice;




(b)

approve, in writing, the removal of soil or the placement of fill




(i)

as set out in the notice, or




(ii)

subject to limits and conditions;




(c)

order, in writing, the person to stop or not engage in removing soil
or placing fill unless permitted under section 25 or 45.




(3)

If a person fails to comply with subsection (1) (c) (ii), the chief
executive officer may do one or both of the following:




(a)

order, in writing, the person to comply with subsection (1) (c) (ii);




(b)

take the action described in subsection (2) (c).




(4)

If the chief executive officer does not take an action described in
subsection (2) within 60 days after receiving the fee and notice
submitted under subsection (1) (c) (ii) or the information requested
under subsection (2) (a), the person may remove soil from or place
fill on the agricultural land as described in the notice.




(5)

A person may apply to the commission for permission under section 25
for a soil or fill use of agricultural land




(a)

if the person is an owner of the agricultural land, or has a right of
entry, granted under an enactment, to the agricultural land, and




(b)

whether or not a fee and notice have been submitted under subsection
(1) (c) (ii) of this section or the chief executive officer has taken
an action described in subsection (2) (b) (ii) or (c).




(6)

The chief executive officer may delegate, in writing, the powers and
duties of the chief executive officer under this section to an
employee of the commission.






Subdivision of agricultural land




21

(1)


A person must not subdivide agricultural land unless permitted under
section 25 or 45 or the regulations.




(2)

An owner of agricultural land may apply to the commission for
permission under section 25 to subdivide agricultural land.






Covenants




22

(1)


The commission may enter into a covenant under the

Land Title Act

with an owner of agricultural land.




(2)

A covenant that restricts or prohibits the use of agricultural land
for farm purposes has no effect until approved by the commission.






Exceptions




23

(1)


Restrictions on the use of agricultural land do not apply to land
that, on December 21, 1972, was, by separate certificate of
title issued under the
Land Registry Act
, R.S.B.C. 1960, c. 208, less than 2 acres in area.




(2)

The restrictions on the use of agricultural land do not apply to land
lawfully used for a non-farm use, established and carried on
continuously for at least 6 months immediately before
December 21, 1972, unless and until




(a)

the use is changed, other than to farm use, without the permission of
the commission,




(a.1)

the use is discontinued for a continuous period of 6 months,




(b)

an enactment made after December 21, 1972, prohibits the use, or




(c)

permission for the use granted under an enactment is withdrawn or
expires.




(3)

For greater certainty, the exception in subsection (2) applies only to
the land that was actually being used for a non-farm use and not to
the entire parcel on which that use was being carried on.






Preservation of rights




24


Despite sections 2 and 3, if Crown land continued as agricultural land
under this Act has been leased by the government, or sold by agreement
for sale by the government and not transferred to the purchaser before
December 21, 1972, and on that date was being used for a non-farm
use, and not in contravention of the terms of the lease or agreement,
that use may continue until termination of the lease or issue of title
to the purchaser under the agreement for sale.






Applications by owner




25

(1)


On receiving a use or subdivision application,




(a)

the commission, if required by the regulations, must reject the
application, or




(b)

if paragraph (a) of this subsection does not apply, the commission
may, subject to subsection (1.1),




(i)

refuse permission for the use or subdivision applied for,




(ii)

grant permission, with or without limits or conditions, for the use or
subdivision applied for, or




(iii)

grant permission for an alternative use or subdivision, with or
without limits or conditions, as applicable.




(1.1)

In making a determination under subsection (1) (b) with respect to an
application for a non-adhering residential use, the commission




(a)

must consider the prescribed criteria, if any, and




(b)

must not grant permission for an additional residence unless the
additional residence is necessary for a farm use.




(2)

[Repealed 2018-56-16.]




(3)

An application referred to in subsection (1), except such an
application from a first nation government, may not proceed unless
authorized by a resolution of the local government if, on the date the
application is made, the application




(a)

applies to land that is zoned by bylaw to permit farm use, or




(b)

requires, in order to proceed, an amendment to an official settlement
plan, an official community plan, an official development plan or a
zoning bylaw.




(3.1)

An application referred to in subsection (1) in relation to settlement
lands may not proceed unless authorized by a law of the first nation
government of the first nation that has legislative authority over the
settlement lands.




(4)

In deciding an application referred to in subsection (1), the
commission may meet with the applicant or may make a decision on the
basis of written representations only.




(4.1)

A decision of the commission under subsection (1) (b) (ii) or (iii) in
relation to proposed settlement lands may not be made effective unless
and until




(a)

those lands are established, in whole or in part, as settlement lands,
and




(b)

the first nation government in relation to those settlement lands
enacts a law approving the commission's decision and provides a
certified copy of the law to the commission.




(4.2)

Unless a decision under subsection (1) (b) (ii) or (iii) first becomes
effective under subsection (4.1), the decision expires on the earlier
of the following dates:




(a)

the date the decision expires according to its terms;




(b)

the date that a notice to suspend negotiations takes effect.




(5)

The commission must deliver its written decision to the owner.






Delegation of powers respecting applications




26

(1)


The commission may enter into an agreement with any of the following
to enable a first nation government or an authority to exercise some
or all of the commission's power to decide use or subdivision
applications:




(a)

a first nation government, for applications made in respect of
settlement lands within the jurisdiction of the first nation
government;




(b)

an agent of the government, a public officer or a public body other
than a local government, for applications made in respect of land
within the jurisdiction of the authority, if the agent, officer or
body is prescribed by regulation.




(2)

An agreement under subsection (1) between the commission and an
authority may exempt a non-farm use in a specified area within the
jurisdiction of the authority from the requirement of an application
on the condition that the authority conducts audits and reports to the
commission as required by the agreement.




(3)

If an agreement is entered into under subsection (1), the first nation
government or authority must, with respect to an application covered
by the agreement,




(a)

consider each application in the prescribed manner, and




(b)

advise the commission in the prescribed manner of each application
received and of the decision made on each application.




(4)

A decision made under this section must be made as follows:




(a)

in the case of a decision of a first nation government, by a law of
the first nation government;




(b)

in the case of a decision of an authority, by a resolution of the
governing body of the authority.




(5)

If, by an agreement entered into under subsection (1) of this section,
the commission delegates its power to decide applications under
section 25 to a first nation government or an authority,




(a)

section 6 applies to the first nation government or the authority for
the purposes of deciding use or subdivision applications, and




(b)

the decision of the first nation government or the authority is a
decision of the commission for the purposes of this Act.




(6)

If an authority has the power to decide an application under an
agreement entered into under subsection (1), an application that would
otherwise be required to be submitted to a local government or first
nation government under section 34.1 (1) must be made directly to the
authority.




(7)

If a first nation government or an authority has the power to decide
an application under an agreement entered into under subsection (1),




(a)

the first nation government or authority may retain the entire fee
payable under section 34 with respect to the application,




(a.1)

section 35.1 applies to the applicant with respect to the application,
except that a reference to the commission in that section must be read
as a reference to the first nation government or authority, and




(b)

sections 39 to 45 apply to the application as if the application were
before the commission.




(8)

If the commission enters into an agreement under subsection (1) (c)
with a first nation government in relation to settlement lands, that
agreement or another agreement under this Act must include a
definition of "owner" for the purposes of paragraph (b) (i) of the
definition of "owner" in section 1 (1).




(9)

The

Financial Administration Act

does not apply in relation to a fee collected under this section.






Chief executive officer may approve some applications




27

(1)


The commission, by resolution, may establish criteria under which the
following may be approved by the chief executive officer:




(a)

specified types of use or subdivision applications or exclusion
applications;




(b)

applications with respect to specified regions of British Columbia.




(2)

The commission must put the criteria established under subsection (1)
in writing and make them available for inspection during ordinary
business hours.




(3)

An application that meets the criteria established under subsection
(1) may be approved by the chief executive officer on the terms that
the chief executive officer may impose.




(4)

If the chief executive officer considers that the application does not
meet the criteria specified under subsection (1) or for any other
reason does not wish to approve the application under subsection (3),
the application must be referred to the commission for a decision.




(5)

An approval of an application by the chief executive officer under
subsection (3) is a decision of the commission for the purposes of
this Act.




(6)

The chief executive officer may not exercise a power that has been
delegated to a first nation government or an authority by an agreement
entered into under section 26.






Application of sections 18 and 20 to 21 limited to agricultural land




28


For greater certainty, if a parcel of land is not wholly within the
agricultural land reserve, sections 18 (1) to (4) and 20 to 21 apply
only to that portion of the parcel that is agricultural land.






Exclusion applications




29

(1)


A person may apply to the commission to have land excluded from the
agricultural land reserve if the person is




(a)

the owner of the land and is




(i)

the Province, a first nation government or a local government, or




(ii)

a prescribed public body,




(b)

a local government, and the land is within the local government's
jurisdiction, or




(c)

a first nation government, and the land is within the first nation's
settlement lands.




(2)

Subject to subsection (3),




(a)

an applicant must give notice, in the prescribed form and manner and
before making the application, of the application and of a public
hearing respecting that application, and




(b)

the public hearing must be held in the prescribed manner.




(3)

On request of an applicant described in subsection (1) (a), the
commission may waive one or more of the requirements of subsection
(2).




(4)

An application made by an applicant described in subsection (1) (a)
may not proceed unless authorized as follows:




(a)

by a resolution of a local government if the application is made by a
person other than a first nation government and, on the date the
application is made, the application




(i)

applies to land within the local government's jurisdiction that is
zoned by bylaw to permit farm use, or




(ii)

requires, in order to proceed, an amendment to an official settlement
plan, official community plan, official development plan or zoning
bylaw of the local government;




(b)

by a law of a first nation government if the application applies to
settlement lands over which the first nation has legislative
authority.






Decision on exclusion applications




29.1

(1)


In this section,

"decision respecting proposed settlement lands"

means a decision of the commission made under subsection (2) (b) or
(c) of this section on receiving an application under section 29




(a)

by an applicant described in subsection (1) (a) of that section, and




(b)

in relation to proposed settlement lands.




(2)

On receiving an application under section 29, the commission may do
one of the following:




(a)

refuse permission to have land excluded from the agricultural land
reserve;




(b)

grant permission, with or without limits or conditions, to have land
excluded from the agricultural land reserve;




(c)

permit, with or without limits or conditions, a non-farm use,
non-adhering residential use, soil or fill use or subdivision of land.




(3)

A decision respecting proposed settlement lands is not effective
unless and until




(a)

those lands are established, in whole or in part, as settlement lands,
and




(b)

the first nation government that has jurisdiction over those
settlement lands enacts a law approving the commission's decision and
provides a certified copy of the law to the commission.




(4)

Unless a decision respecting proposed settlement lands first becomes
effective under subsection (3), the decision expires on the earlier of
the following dates:




(a)

the date the decision expires according to its terms;




(b)

the date a notice to suspend negotiations takes effect.




(5)

The commission must deliver its written decision to the applicant.






Exclusion by the commission




30

(1)


On the commission's own initiative, the commission may do one of the
following, with or without limits or conditions, as applicable:




(a)

exclude land from the agricultural land reserve;




(b)

permit a non-farm use, non-adhering residential use, soil or fill use
or subdivision of land.




(2)

Before taking action under subsection (1),




(a)

the commission must give notice as required by the regulations of the
commission's intentions and of a public hearing respecting those
intentions, and




(b)

the public hearing must be held in the prescribed manner.




(3)

If the commission takes an action under subsection (1), it must
deliver written notice of the action to the owner of the land.






Repealed




30.1


[Repealed 2018-56-22.]






Effect of permission




31


It is a condition of a permission granted under section 25 (1) (b)
(ii) or (iii), 29.1 (2) (b) or 30 (1) (b) that the person to whom
permission was granted must comply with the applicable Acts,
regulations, bylaws of the local government, laws of the first nation
government, and decisions and orders of any person or body having
jurisdiction over the land under an enactment.






Boundaries to be amended




32


If land is excluded from the agricultural land reserve under this Act,
the commission must do both of the following:




(a)

amend the boundaries of the agricultural land reserve;




(b)

notify the Registrar of Titles and the appropriate local government or
first nation government.






Reconsideration of decisions




33

(1)


In this section:


"decision"
means a decision made under this Act with respect to an application;



"decision maker"

means the following, as applicable:




(a)

the commission, in relation to a decision made by the commission;




(b)

a panel, in relation to a decision made by the panel;




(c)

a first nation government or an authority, in relation to a decision
made by the first nation government or the authority under an
agreement entered into under section 26 (1).




(2)

On the written request of a person affected by a decision, or on a
decision maker's own initiative, the decision maker may reconsider the
decision maker's decision, and may confirm, reverse or vary the
decision, if




(a)

[Not in force.]




(b)

no previous request has been made, if reconsideration is on request
and not on the decision maker's own initiative, and




(c)

the decision maker determines that




(i)

evidence has become available that was not available at the time of
the original decision and could not have been available had the person
affected by the decision exercised due diligence, or




(ii)

all or part of the original decision was based on incorrect or false
information.




(3)

The decision maker must give notice of an intention to reconsider a
decision to any person that the decision maker considers is affected
by the reconsideration.






Reconsideration of decisions of panel




33.1

(1)


The chair of the commission may, in writing, direct the executive
committee to reconsider a decision made by a panel respecting an
application or other matter referred to the panel by the chair of the
commission or a panel's reconsideration of a decision under
section 33 (2), if




(a)

the chair considers that the decision or the reconsideration of the
decision




(i)

may not fulfill the purposes of the commission as set out in section
6 (1), or




(ii)

fails to give priority to the matters referred to in section
6 (2), and




(b)

the chair makes the direction to the executive committee within 60
days of the decision being made.




(2)

If the chair of the commission directs the executive committee to
reconsider a decision under subsection (1), the chair must give notice
of the reconsideration to any person that the chair considers is
affected by the reconsideration.




(3)

If the chair of the commission directs the executive committee to
reconsider a decision under subsection (1), the executive committee
must confirm, reverse or vary the decision.




(4)

For the purposes of subsection (3), the executive committee has all
the powers and duties of the commission.




(5)

A decision by the executive committee under subsection (3) is for all
purposes a decision of the commission.






Application procedure if local government or first nation government
review not required




34

(1)


This section applies to the following types of applications:




(a)

an application made by a first nation government as the owner of
proposed settlement lands, other than an inclusion application under
section 17;




(b)

an exclusion application made by a person referred to in section 29
(1) (b) or (c);




(c)

an application for which review would be required under section 34.1,
but the application is made by the local government or first nation
government that would be responsible for the review;




(d)

an application for a specific type of use prescribed by regulation as
an application that must be filed directly with the commission;




(e)

an application made under section 58.3 (1) (e), unless a regulation
made under that section provides otherwise.




(2)

A person may make an application described in subsection (1) by
submitting the application and paying the prescribed application fee
to the commission.




(3)

In respect of an application described in subsection (1) (d), the
commission




(a)

may request comments and information from the local government or
first nation government for the area in which the land described in
the application is located, and




(b)

if a request is made under paragraph (a) of this subsection, pay a
prescribed portion of the fee received under subsection (2) to the
local government or first nation government.




(4)

A local government or first nation government that is paid a fee under
subsection (3) (b) may retain the fee, and the

Financial Administration Act

does not apply in relation to that fee.






Application procedure if local government or first nation government
review required




34.1

(1)


A person may make an application to which section 34 does not apply by
submitting the application and paying the prescribed application fee,
if any, to the following, as applicable:




(a)

the municipality, if the land described in the application is in a
municipality;




(b)

the regional district, if the land described in the application is in
a regional district but not in a municipality or a local trust area;




(c)

the Islands Trust, if the land described in the application is within
a local trust area under the

Islands Trust Act

;




(d)

the first nation government, if the land described in the application
is in the settlement lands of a first nation.




(2)

A local government or first nation government that receives an
application must review the application and do one of the following:




(a)

forward to the commission




(i)

the application, and




(ii)

the comments and recommendations of the local government or first
nation government respecting the application;




(b)

notify the applicant that the application will not be forwarded to the
commission if




(i)

the application is refused, or




(ii)

the application may not, under this Act, proceed unless authorized by
a resolution of the local government or a law of the first nation
government and the required resolution or law is refused.




(3)

If a local government or first nation government forwards an
application under subsection (2) (a) to the commission, the applicant
must pay the prescribed application fee, if any, to the commission.




(4)

The application fee that must be paid under subsection (3) is in
addition to the application fee, if any, paid under subsection (1).




(5)

A local government or first nation government that collects a fee
under subsection (1) may retain the fee, and the

Financial Administration Act

does not apply in relation to that fee.






Waiver of application fees




35

(1)


The commission may waive an application fee payable under section 34
(2) or 34.1 (3) if the commission considers that a case of hardship
exists.




(2)

A designated local government officer or an official designated for
this purpose by a first nation government may waive an application fee
payable under section 34.1 (1) if the designated officer or official
considers that a case of hardship exists.




(3)

The

Financial Administration Act

does not apply in relation to the waiver of a fee under this section.






Information and fees respecting terms




35.1


If, on making a decision under section 25 (1) (b) (ii) or (iii) or
29.1 (2) (b) or (c), the commission imposes one or more limits or
conditions, the person who made the application resulting in the
decision must submit to the commission the following:




(a)

the prescribed information and fees, if any;




(b)

any other information requested by the commission, in the form and
manner specified by the commission.






Notice of applications




36

(1)


A person who makes an application to which section 34 or 34.1 applies
must, in the prescribed circumstances,




(a)

give notice of the application in accordance with the regulations, and




(b)

provide evidence, satisfactory to the commission, that the applicant
has complied with the notice requirements of the regulations.




(2)

A decision of the commission with respect to an application is not
invalidated merely because the applicant fails to comply with the
notice requirements of the regulations, if the applicant made
reasonable efforts to comply with those requirements.






No compensation for inclusion in agricultural land reserve




37


Land is deemed not to be taken or injuriously affected by its
inclusion in the agricultural land reserve.






Agreements




38


For the purposes of this Act, the commission may enter into agreements
with the government, a local government, a first nation government,
Canada or an authority.






Definition of "board" in sections 40 to 45




39

(1)


In sections 40 to 45,
"board"
means a commissioner appointed as a study commission under the

Public Inquiry Act

for the purpose of inquiring into a matter described in section 40 of
this Act.




(2)

The board has the powers set out in sections 22 and 23 of the

Public Inquiry Act

.






Reference of a matter to the board




40

(1)


If the Lieutenant Governor in Council considers it to be in the
Provincial interest, the Lieutenant Governor in Council may by order
refer to the board, for the purpose of a public hearing described in
section 43, any of the following matters before the commission at
the time of the order:




(a)

an inclusion application under section 17 (1) or (3);




(b)

a use or subdivision application;




(b.1)

an exclusion application;




(c)

if land is being considered by the commission on its own initiative,
the issues relating to




(i)

approval and designation under section 17 (1),




(ii)

an exclusion under section 30 (1) (a), or




(iii)

a permission granted under section 30 (1) (b);




(d)

a reconsideration under section 33 of a decision of the commission
made in respect of a matter referred to in
paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of this subsection.




(2)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council must specify written terms of
reference for the purpose of a public hearing by the board pertaining
to a matter referred to the board under this section.




(3)

In determining whether it is in the Provincial interest to refer a
matter to the board under subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in
Council must take into account




(a)

the preservation of agricultural land as a scarce and important asset,




(b)

the potential long term consequences of failing to preserve
agricultural land, and




(c)

the province-wide context of the matter.




(4)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make an order under subsection
(1) on the Lieutenant Governor in Council's own initiative or at the
request of a local government, a first nation government or the
commission.






Suspension of matters pending a decision under section 40




41

(1)


For the purpose of giving the Lieutenant Governor in Council time to
consider whether an order under section 40 is warranted, the
minister may order that the matter be suspended for a period, to be
specified in the order, that is not longer than 90 days.




(2)

An order of the minister under subsection (1) has effect and is
binding on the commission, and on any parties to a proceeding relating
to a matter that is the subject of the order, until the expiry of the
period specified in the order.






Effect of an order under section 40




42

(1)


On the date of an order under section 40 referring a matter to the
board, the commission's powers and duties under this Act in relation
to the matter are transferred to the Lieutenant Governor in Council to
the extent necessary to enable the Lieutenant Governor in Council to
act in accordance with section 45.




(2)

An order under section 40 is final and binding.




(3)

If the Lieutenant Governor in Council makes an order under
section 40 referring a matter to the board, the commission must,
within 14 days of the date of the order,




(a)

prepare a written report with respect to the matter, and




(b)

submit the report to the board for the purpose of assisting the board
in conducting a public hearing under section 43 in respect of the
matter.






Public hearing




43

(1)


On receiving the written terms of reference specified in conjunction
with an order under section 40, the board must




(a)

prepare a discussion paper with respect to the matter that is the
subject of the order, and




(b)

make the paper available to the public before holding a public hearing
under this section.




(2)

The discussion paper prepared under subsection (1) (a) must include
the written report that the commission submitted to the board under
section 42 (3) (b).




(3)

For the purpose of providing the report and recommendations required
under section 44, the board must conduct a public hearing to
evaluate the probable agricultural, environmental, heritage, economic,
cultural and social effects of any of the following if it is a matter
that was before the commission at the time the order under
section 40 made the referral:




(a)

an approval and a designation under section 17 (1);




(b)

a designation under section 17 (3);




(c)

a refusal under section 29.1 (2) (a);




(c.1)

an exclusion under section 29.1 (2) (b) or 30 (1) (a);




(d)

a permission granted under section 29.1 (2) (c);




(e)

a decision under section 33 to confirm, reverse or vary a decision
referred to in paragraph (a), (b), (c) or (d) of
this subsection.




(4)

The public hearing held under subsection (3) must be conducted in
accordance with the terms of reference specified in conjunction with
the order made under section 40.




(5)

The board must hold at least one public hearing with respect to the
matter in each administrative region.






Report and recommendations




44

(1)


On conclusion of the public hearing under section 43, the board must
submit to the Lieutenant Governor in Council




(a)

a written report in accordance with the terms of reference specified
in conjunction with the order made under section 40, and




(b)

a summary of the evidence received and submissions made in the course
of any public hearing held in accordance with the terms of reference.




(2)

The report referred to in subsection (1) must include the board's
recommendations to the Lieutenant Governor in Council for action under
section 45.




(3)

In making the recommendations referred to in subsection (2), the board
must give weight to the following values in descending order of
priority:




(a)

agricultural values;




(b)

environmental and heritage values, but only if




(i)

those values cannot be replaced or relocated to land other than
agricultural land, or




(ii)

giving weight to those values results in no net loss to the
agricultural capabilities of the area;




(c)

economic, cultural and social values.




(3.1)

[Repealed 2018-56-31.]




(4)

The board must provide a copy of its report to the commission at the
same time that the report is submitted to the Lieutenant Governor in
Council under subsection (1).




(5)

The commission may submit to the Lieutenant Governor in Council
written comments on the report, but it must do so within 30 days of
receiving a copy of the report under subsection (4).




(6)

Within 10 days after submitting its report under subsection (1), the
board must publish the report in the prescribed manner.






Lieutenant Governor in Council's decision




45

(1)


On receiving the board's report under section 44 (1) and the
commission's comments, if any, under section 44 (5), the Lieutenant
Governor in Council, by order, may decide the outcome of the matter
that is the subject of the order under section 40 by




(a)

granting or refusing to grant the approval, designation, exclusion or
permission applied for, in the case of a matter described in section
40 (1) (a), (b) or (b.1),




(b)

making or deciding not to make the approval, designation, exclusion or
permission that was under consideration by the commission on its own
initiative, in the case of a matter described in section 40 (1) (c),
or




(c)

confirming, reversing or varying a decision referred to in section 40
(1) (d).




(2)

Section 44 (3) applies to a decision made under subsection (1) of this
section.




(3)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may attach conditions to an order
made under this section.




(4)

An order made under this section is final and binding.






Conflict with bylaws




46

(1)


In this section,
"bylaw"
means




(a)

a bylaw, made by a local government, that adopts a regional growth
strategy, an official settlement plan, an official community plan, an
official development plan or a zoning bylaw,




(b)

any other bylaw respecting land use in a local government's
jurisdiction made by a local government under any other enactment, and




(c)

a law of a first nation government respecting land use within the
first nation's settlement lands.




(2)

A local government in respect of its bylaws and a first nation
government in respect of its laws must ensure consistency with this
Act, the regulations and the orders of the commission.




(3)

Subject to subsection (4), nothing in this Act affects or impairs the
validity of a local government bylaw or a first nation government law
relating to the use of land in the agricultural land reserve.




(4)

A local government bylaw or a first nation government law that is
inconsistent with this Act, the regulations or an order of the
commission has, to the extent of the inconsistency, no force or
effect.




(5)

Without limiting subsection (4), a local government bylaw or a first
nation government law is deemed to be inconsistent with this Act if it




(a)

allows a use of land in the agricultural land reserve that is not
permitted under this Act, or




(b)

contemplates a use of land that would impair or impede the intent of
this Act, the regulations or an order of the commission, whether or
not that use requires the adoption of any further bylaw or law, the
giving of any consent or approval or the making of any order.




(6)

A local government bylaw or a first nation government law that
provides restrictions on farm use, residential use or soil or fill use
of land in the agricultural land reserve additional to those provided
under this Act is not, for that reason alone, inconsistent with this
Act and the regulations.




(7)

This section applies only to local government bylaws or first nation
government laws made after August 26, 1994.






Consolidated revenue fund




47


The commission must pay as soon as practicable all money received by
it, other than money received under an appropriation under a Supply
Act, into the consolidated revenue fund.






Bonding or other security




48


The Lieutenant Governor in Council, the commission, a local
government, a first nation government or an authority may require that
an applicant under this Act whose application has been approved on
terms, in order to ensure compliance with the terms, post security in
the form of insurance, a bond or another prescribed form of security.






Inspections




49

(1)


For the purposes of administering this Act or of ensuring compliance
with this Act, the regulations or an order of the commission, a member
of the commission or an official may do one or more of the following:




(a)

enter any land, other than a dwelling house;




(b)

make any surveys, analyses, inspections, examinations or soil tests
that are necessary to determine any of the following:




(i)

the current use of the land;




(ii)

the suitability of the land for farm use;




(iii)

the potential effects that the proposed changes to the use of the land
may have on agricultural land;




(c)

remove soil samples for the purposes of conducting the analyses and
tests referred to in paragraph (b);




(d)

make any inspection of records, things or activities reasonably
related to the purpose of the inspection;




(e)

make copies of any records or documents reasonably related to the
purpose of the inspection;




(f)

make an order requiring a person to produce for the member or official
a record or thing in the person's possession or control.




(2)

A person who hinders, obstructs, impedes or otherwise interferes with
a person exercising a power under subsection (1) commits an offence.




(3)

If a member of the commission or an official exercises a power under
subsection (1), the commission may order the person in respect of whom
the power was exercised to pay to the commission fees related to the
exercise of the power, as prescribed in the regulations.






Stop work order




50


If an official considers that a person is contravening or is about to
contravene a provision of this Act or the regulations, the official,
in accordance with the regulations, may order that




(a)

the contravention cease,




(b)

the contravention cease to the extent specified by the order, or




(c)

the person not take any action that would result in a contravention.






Power to rescind or vary orders




51


The chief executive officer may rescind or vary any determination,
decision or order made by the chief executive officer or an official
under section 50, 52 or 54




(a)

on new information being provided to the chief executive officer,




(b)

if the chief executive officer determines that there were insufficient
grounds for making the determination, decision or order, or




(c)

if the chief executive officer considers that it would be in the best
interests of the administration of this Act.






Determinations and remediation orders




52

(1)


If the chief executive officer determines that a person has
contravened this Act, the regulations or an order of the commission,
the chief executive officer, in accordance with the regulations, may
order the person to remedy the contravention by




(a)

carrying out a requirement of this Act or the regulations that the
person has failed to carry out, or




(b)

repairing or mitigating damage caused to agricultural land by the
contravention, including the removal of buildings or structures.




(2)

If a person fails to comply with an order under subsection (1), the
chief executive officer, in accordance with the regulations, may do
one or more of the following:




(a)

in a written notice given to the person, restrict or prohibit the
person from carrying out the work referred to in the order;




(b)

require the person to provide the security that the chief executive
officer considers necessary and realize on that security;




(c)

carry out all necessary work.




(3)

A person referred to in subsection (2) is liable to the commission for
costs incurred by the commission under this section.






Notice of remediation orders in land title office




52.1

(1)


If the chief executive officer makes a remediation order under section
52 (1) in respect of agricultural land, the chief executive officer
may file in the land title office a written notice containing




(a)

a description of the agricultural land sufficient for the Registrar of
Titles to identify the agricultural land in the records of the land
title office, and




(b)

a statement that




(i)

an order has been issued under this Act that affects the agricultural
land,




(ii)

further information about the order may be inspected at the offices of
the commission, and




(iii)

any person who acquires an interest in the agricultural land before
the order ceases to have effect is subject to the order.




(2)

If a notice is filed under subsection (1) and on payment of all
applicable fees imposed under the

Land Title Act

, the Registrar of Titles must make a note of the filing against the
title to the land that is affected by the notice.




(3)

In the event of any omission, mistake or misfeasance by the Registrar
of Titles or the staff of the Registrar of Titles in relation to the
making of a note of a filing, or the registration of a transfer or
other disposition under this section,




(a)

neither the Registrar of Titles, nor the government nor the Land Title
and Survey Authority of British Columbia is liable vicariously, and




(b)

neither the assurance fund nor the Land Title and Survey Authority of
British Columbia, as a nominal defendant, is liable under Part 19.1
[Land Title and Survey Authority Assurance Fund]
of the

Land Title Act

.




(4)

If a note is made under subsection (2) of this section, the order made
under section 52 (1) and, if applicable, any variation of it are
binding on all persons who acquire an interest in the agricultural
land that is the subject of the order.




(5)

The authority under this section is in addition to any other action
that the chief executive officer or the commission is authorized to
take under this Act in respect of a contravention of this Act, the
regulations or an order of the commission or chief executive officer.






Cancellation of remediation order note




52.2

(1)


In this section:



"affected person"

means an owner of land with respect to which a remediation order note
has been made;



"cancellation notice"

means a notice directing the cancellation of a remediation order note;



"remediation order"

means an order made under section 52 (1);



"remediation order note"

means a note made under section 52.1 (2).




(2)

If a remediation order is reversed on appeal,




(a)

the chief executive officer must deliver a cancellation notice to the
Registrar of Titles, and




(b)

[Not in force.]




(3)

The chief executive officer may deliver a cancellation notice to the
Registrar of Titles if the chief executive officer




(a)

is satisfied that a remediation order has been or cannot be
substantially complied with, and




(b)

[Not in force.]




(4)

An affected person may apply to the chief executive officer to have a
remediation order note cancelled by giving to the chief executive
officer all of the following:




(a)

an application made in the form and manner required by the chief
executive officer;




(b)

evidence satisfactory to the chief executive officer that the
remediation order has been or cannot be substantially complied with.




(5)

[Not in force.]




(6)

On receiving a cancellation notice and cancellation fee, if any, the
Registrar of Titles must cancel the remediation order note referred to
in the notice.






Order for compliance




53

(1)


The commission may apply to the Supreme Court for an order under
subsection (2) if the commission considers




(a)

that a person is not complying, or has not complied, with a
determination, a decision or an order under section 49 (1) (f), 50, 52
or 54 (1),




(b)

that a person is not complying with an order of the commission, or




(c)

that a present or future activity or use of agricultural land may
contravene this Act, the regulations, an order of the commission or a
determination, a decision or an order under section 50, 52
or 54 (1).




(2)

On application by the commission under this section, the Supreme Court
may make one or more of the following kinds of orders:




(a)

directing the person to comply with the determination, decision or
order;




(b)

directing the person to cease violating the determination, decision or
order;




(c)

restraining the person from violating the determination, decision or
order;




(d)

if the person is a corporation, directing the directors and officers
of the corporation to cause the corporation to comply with an order
under this section.






Penalties levied by chief executive officer




54

(1)


The chief executive officer, in accordance with the regulations, may
levy a penalty up to the prescribed amount against a person who
contravenes this Act, the regulations or the orders of the commission.




(2)

The time limit for levying a penalty against a person under subsection
(1) is 3 years after the facts on which the penalty is based first
came to the knowledge of the chief executive officer.






Appeal




55

(1)


A person who is the subject of a determination, a decision, an order
or a penalty under section 50, 52 or 54 (1) may appeal the
determination, decision, order or penalty to the commission by serving
the commission with a notice of appeal.




(2)

On an appeal under this section, the commission may




(a)

confirm, vary or reverse the determination, decision, order or
penalty, or




(b)

refer the matter, with or without directions, back to the person who
made the initial determination, decision or order.




(3)

The commission must give notice of an appeal to any person the
commission considers is affected by the appeal.




(4)

[Repealed 2004-45-65.]




(5)

[Repealed 2015-10-36.]






Application of
Administrative Tribunals Act
to appeals




55.01


For the purposes of an appeal under section 55, the following
provisions of the

Administrative Tribunals Act

apply to the commission:




(a)

Part 4
[Practice and Procedure]
, except the following:




(i)

section 16
[consent orders]
;




(ii)

section 22
[notice of appeal (inclusive of prescribed fee)]
;




(iii)

section 26 (1) to (5) and (7) to (9)

[organization of tribunal, except decision of majority is decision
of panel]

;




(iv)

section 27
[staff of tribunal]
;




(v)

section 28
[facilitated settlement]
;




(vi)

section 29
[disclosure protection]
;




(vii)

[Repealed 2019-32-32.]




(viii)

section 31 (1) (f)

[summary dismissal if no reasonable prospect application will
succeed]

;




(ix)

section 34
[power to compel witnesses and order disclosure]
;




(x)

section 38
[examination of witnesses]
;




(xi)

section 41
[hearings open to public]
;




(xii)

section 42
[discretion to receive evidence in confidence]
;




(b)

section 48
[maintenance of order at hearings]
;




(c)

Part 7
[Decisions]
;




(d)

section 57
[time limit for judicial review]
;




(e)

section 58
[standard of review with privative clause]
;




(f)

section 60 (1) (a) and (b) and (2)
[power to make regulations]
;




(g)

section 61

[application of Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy
Act]

.






Exclusive jurisdiction of commission




55.1

(1)


The commission has exclusive jurisdiction to inquire into, hear and
determine all those matters and questions of fact, law and discretion
arising or required to be determined in an appeal under section 55 and
to make any order permitted to be made.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the commission has exclusive
jurisdiction to hear and determine the following questions:




(a)

whether an official acted in accordance with the regulations in
issuing an order under section 50;




(b)

whether the chief executive officer acted in accordance with the
regulations in issuing a notice under section 52 (2) (a), issuing an
order under section 52 (1), taking any action under section 52 (2) or
levying a penalty under section 54 (1).




(3)

A decision or order of the commission under this Act on a matter in
respect of which the commission has exclusive jurisdiction is final
and conclusive and is not open to question or review in any court.






Repealed




55.2


[Repealed 2015-10-38.]






Application of enforcement powers




56

(1)


If, under an agreement under section 26, a first nation government or
an authority acts in the place of the commission, sections 49
to 55 apply to




(a)

the first nation government or authority, and




(b)

a person designated by the first nation government or authority to
exercise the powers under those sections.




(2)

Despite section 43 of the

Provincial Court Act

, if a first nation government imposes a penalty under section 54 of
this Act, the penalty is payable to and may be retained by the first
nation government.






Offences




57

(1)


A person commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $1 million or imprisonment for not more than
6 months, or to both, who contravenes the following:




(a)

an order of the commission;




(b)

section 20 (1);




(b.1)

section 20.1 (1);




(b.2)

section 20.3 (1);




(c)

a covenant referred to in section 22;




(c.1)

an order under section 49 (1) (f) to produce a record or thing;




(d)

section 49 (2);




(e)

a stop work order under section 50;




(f)

a remediation order under section 52.




(2)

The maximum fine under subsection (1) to which a person is liable on a
second or subsequent conviction is double the amount set out in that
section.




(3)

A proceeding, conviction or penalty under this section does not
relieve a person from a penalty under another section or from any
other liability.




(4)

A person commits an offence who




(a)

without lawful excuse intentionally interferes with,




(b)

without lawful excuse intentionally fails to comply with a lawful
requirement of, or




(c)

intentionally makes a false statement or misleads or attempts to
mislead,


the chief executive officer, a member of the commission, an official
or an employee or a consultant of the commission appointed under
section 8.




(5)

If a corporation contravenes this Act or the regulations, a director
or officer of it who authorized, permitted or acquiesced in the
contravention also commits the contravention.




(6)

Section 5 of the

Offence Act

does not apply to this Act.






Land use regulations




58

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations respecting
farm uses and non-farm uses as follows:




(a)

designating uses of agricultural land as farm use;




(b)

specifying farm uses of agricultural land that may not be prohibited
by a local government enactment or a first nation government law;




(c)

prescribing permitted non-farm uses for the purposes of section 20
(1);




(d)

specifying permitted non-farm uses that may or may not be prohibited
by a local government enactment or a first nation government law.




(2)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations respecting
residential uses as follows:




(a)

prescribing, by type or purpose, structures that are residential
structures, including permanent and temporary structures, vehicles
used as residences, roads, utilities, recreational and storage
facilities and landscaping;




(b)

for the purposes of section 20.1 (1) (a) and (b), respecting
circumstances in which




(i)

an additional residence is permitted, or




(ii)

a principal residence may have a total floor area of more than 500 m
2
;




(c)

for the purposes of section 20.1 (1) (c),




(i)

respecting the size and siting of residential structures and methods
for determining size and siting,




(ii)

requiring all residential structures to be sited within a prescribed
area on a parcel of agricultural land, and




(iii)

permitting or prohibiting types of residential uses and imposing
limits or conditions on residential uses;




(d)

for the purposes of section 20.1 (1) (c), providing a process to apply
for a variation of or exemption from a regulation made under paragraph
(c) (i) or (ii) of this subsection, including




(i)

respecting applications and fees for applications,




(ii)

respecting hearings,




(iii)

respecting matters that must be or may not be considered in making a
determination, and




(iv)

deeming an application to be a use or subdivision application for the
purposes of this Act.




(3)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations respecting
soil or fill uses as follows:




(a)

exempting materials from the definition of "fill";




(b)

for the purposes of section 20.3 (1) (b), specifying circumstances in
which the removal of soil and placement of fill are permitted.




(4)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations respecting
records that must be kept, and the period for which records must be
kept, by persons engaging in any of the following:




(a)

a farm use to which subsection (1) (a) or (b) applies;




(b)

a non-farm use, non-adhering residential use or soil or fill use
permitted under this Act.




(5)

In making a regulation under subsection (2) or (3), the Lieutenant
Governor in Council may impose limits or conditions on the use of
agricultural land, including, without limitation, limits or conditions




(a)

that take into account agricultural, environmental, heritage,
economic, cultural and social values, and




(b)

that are based on parcel size and location.






Regulations respecting statutory rights of way and subdivision




58.1


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations as follows:




(a)

for the purposes of section 18.1,




(i)

prescribing the form and manner in which notice and proof under that
section must be given, and




(ii)

conferring a discretion on the commission or the Registrar of Titles
to determine the form and manner in which notice and proof under that
section must be given;




(b)

prescribing exceptions to the prohibitions under section 19 respecting
subdivision of agricultural land;




(c)

for the purposes of section 21 (1), specifying permitted types of
subdivision.






Regulations respecting fees




58.2

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations respecting
application fees as follows:




(a)

setting application fees;




(b)

exempting classes of persons from payment of an application fee;




(c)

for the purposes of section 34 (3) (b), prescribing the portion of an
application fee to be paid to the local government or first nation
government.




(2)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations setting fees
for the following:




(a)

the provision of a service under the Act by the commission or the
officers or employees appointed by the commission;




(b)

the purposes of sections 20.3 (1) (c) (ii), 35.1 (a) and 49 (3);




(c)

the exercise of powers under section 49 (1).




(3)

In making a regulation under subsection (2), the Lieutenant Governor
in Council may do the following:




(a)

set fees for the review of information;




(b)

prescribe the amount of a fee or a method for calculating the amount
of a fee;




(c)

make regulations respecting the time within which a fee must be paid;




(d)

set minimum fees.






Regulations respecting applications




58.3

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations respecting
applications as follows:




(a)

for the purposes of section 25 (1) (a),




(i)

specifying circumstances in which the commission must reject an
application, and




(ii)

establishing classes of applications and requiring the commission to
reject an application unless the application is within an established
class;




(b)

for the purposes of section 25 (1.1), respecting criteria to be
considered;




(c)

for the purposes of section 26,




(i)

respecting the terms of an agreement entered into under that section,
and




(ii)

prescribing agents, public officers and public bodies and specifying
the persons constituting the governing body of a prescribed agent,
public officer or public body;




(d)

for the purposes of section 29 (1), prescribing public bodies;




(e)

for the purposes of section 34 (1) (e), prescribing types of
applications for which local government or first nation government
review is not required;




(f)

for the purposes of section 34.1 (2) (a), respecting the manner in
which a local government or first nation government is required to




(i)

review an application, and




(ii)

provide comments and recommendations respecting the application;




(g)

for the purposes of section 35.1 (a), respecting the information an
applicant must submit to the commission and the form and manner in
which the information must be provided;




(h)

respecting the giving of notice for applications, hearings and other
matters, including the form and manner in which a notice must be
given;




(i)

respecting the manner of holding hearings and meetings and obtaining
public comment.




(2)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations as follows:




(a)

respecting the publication of reports for the purposes of section 44
(6);




(b)

respecting other forms of security for the purposes of section 48;




(c)

prescribing procedures to facilitate dispute resolution under the Act.






Regulations respecting the commission




58.4


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations as follows:




(a)

for the purposes of section 5, either or both of the following:




(i)

prescribing criteria that a person must meet to be considered a
resident of an administrative region;




(ii)

conferring a discretion on the chair of the commission or another body
or person for the purpose of determining whether, or the date on
which, a person meets or ceases to meet the criteria to be considered
a resident of an administrative region;




(b)

specifying applications and types of applications that




(i)

are or are not of provincial importance for the purposes of
section 11.1 (2) (a) (i),




(ii)

do or do not raise an issue that is novel or is otherwise of general
importance for the administration of the Act for the purposes of
section 11.1 (2) (a) (ii), and




(iii)

do or do not substantially affect more than one administrative region
for the purposes of section 11.1 (2) (a) (iii);




(c)

establishing policies, procedures, rules and requirements to be
followed by the commission in conducting its affairs, exercising its
powers and performing its duties;




(d)

specifying the number of members that constitute a quorum of the
commission or a panel;




(e)

prescribing the making of certain information public and the manner of
making it public;




(f)

respecting the setting of boundaries of agricultural land and the
agricultural land reserve and the form, content, maintenance and
correction of records of those boundaries.






Regulations respecting enforcement




58.5


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations as follows:




(a)

respecting orders under sections 50 and 52;




(b)

respecting penalties levied under section 54 (1);




(c)

prescribing penalties for a contravention of this Act, the regulations
or an order of the commission.






General powers respecting regulations




58.6

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
section 41 of the

Interpretation Act

.




(2)

A person must not read any of sections 58 to 58.5 or subsections (3)
or (4) of this section as limiting the general power to make
regulations described in subsection (1) of this section.




(3)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations as follows:




(a)

defining a word or expression used but not defined in this Act;




(b)

respecting any other matter for which regulations are contemplated by
this Act.




(4)

In making a regulation under any of sections 58 to 58.5 or this
section, the Lieutenant Governor in Council may do the following:




(a)

establish classes of persons and make different regulations for
different classes;




(b)

make different regulations for different types of




(i)

agricultural land uses or limits or conditions that may be imposed on
agricultural land uses under section 58 (2) or (3),




(ii)

circumstances,




(iii)

services that may be provided by, information that must be provided to
or powers that may be exercised by the commission or the officers or
employees appointed by the commission, and




(iv)

applications;




(c)

make different notice requirements for different areas of British
Columbia.






Powers cumulative




59


The powers in this Act and the regulations enabling the commission,
the chief executive officer and an official to make an order, to
impose a fine or penalty, or to commence a proceeding may be exercised
separately, concurrently or cumulatively and do not affect the powers
of the government under this or any enactment.






Certificates of title subject to this Act




60

(1)


In addition to the limitations set out in section 23 (2) of the

Land Title Act

, a certificate of title issued before June 29, 1973 for
agricultural land is subject, by implication and without endorsement
on the certificate of title, to this Act and the regulations governing
the agricultural land reserve and farm use of the land.




(2)

A Registrar of Titles must endorse on every indefeasible title to
agricultural land issued after June 29, 1973 that the title may
be affected by this Act.






Transitional




61

(1)


In this section:



"Land Reserve Commission"

means the Land Reserve Commission established under section 2 of
the

Land Reserve Commission Act

as it read immediately before the coming into force of this section.




(2)

All of the rights, property and assets and all of the debts,
liabilities and obligations of the Land Reserve Commission are
transferred to and vested in the Provincial Agricultural Land
Commission.




(3)

An application or a matter commenced under the former Act is continued
as an application or matter under this Act.




(4)

An application under section 3 of the

Soil Conservation Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 434, as it read immediately before the coming
into force of this section is continued as an application for
permission for non-farm use under this Act.




(5)

The Provincial Agricultural Land Commission may take up and carry on
to completion all proceedings or other matters commenced under any
enactment that were, immediately before the coming into force of this
section, before the Land Reserve Commission.






Spent





62-90




[Consequential amendments and repeals. Spent. 2002-36-62 to 90.]







Commencement




91


This Act comes into force by regulation of the Lieutenant Governor in
Council.




Schedule


Interior Administrative Region


1
For the purpose of section 4.1 (a), the Interior Administrative Region
consists of the geographic area of British Columbia within the
boundaries of the following regional districts, as those boundaries
existed on January 1, 2014:

(a) Cariboo Regional District;
(b) Central Coast Regional District;
(c) Thompson-Nicola Regional District;

(d) the part of Squamish-Lillooet Regional District that is north and
east of a line commencing at the intersection of
latitude 50° 24' 54.5" north and
longitude 122° west and then proceeding due north to the
intersection of latitude 50° 45' north and
longitude 122° west and then proceeding due west to the
intersection of latitude 50° 45' north and
longitude 123° west and then proceeding due north and
terminating at the intersection of
latitude 51° 11' 47.63" north and
longitude 123° west.


Island Administrative Region


2
For the purpose of section 4.1 (b), the Island Administrative Region
consists of the geographic area of British Columbia within the
boundaries of the following regional districts, as those boundaries
existed on January 1, 2014:

(a) Regional District of Alberni-Clayoquot;
(b) Capital Regional District;
(c) Comox Valley Regional District;
(d) Cowichan Valley Regional District;
(e) Regional District of Mount Waddington;
(f) Regional District of Nanaimo;
(g) Powell River Regional District;
(h) Strathcona Regional District.

Kootenay Administrative Region


3
For the purpose of section 4.1 (c), the Kootenay Administrative Region
consists of the geographic area of British Columbia within the
boundaries of the following regional districts, as those boundaries
existed on January 1, 2014:

(a) Regional District of Central Kootenay;
(b) Regional District of East Kootenay;
(c) Regional District of Kootenay Boundary;

(d) the part of Columbia-Shuswap Regional District that is south and
east of a line commencing at the intersection of
latitude 50° 52' 58.23" north and
longitude 117° 30' west and proceeding due north to the
intersection of latitude 51° 45' north and
longitude 117° 30' west and then proceeding due east and
terminating at latitude 51° 45' north and
longitude 116° 57' 40" west.


North Administrative Region


4
For the purpose of section 4.1 (d), the North Administrative Region
consists of the following:


(a) the geographic area of British Columbia within the boundaries of the
following regional districts and regional municipalities, as those
boundaries existed on January 1, 2014:

(i) Regional District of Bulkley-Nechako;
(ii) Regional District of Fraser-Fort George;
(iii) Regional District of Kitimat-Stikine;
(iv) Northern Rockies Regional Municipality;
(v) Peace River Regional District;
(vi) Skeena-Queen Charlotte Regional District;

(b) all the land in British Columbia that is not within the boundaries
of a regional district or a regional municipality, as those boundaries
existed on January 1, 2014.


Okanagan Administrative Region


5
For the purpose of section 4.1 (e), the Okanagan Administrative Region
consists of the geographic area of British Columbia within the
boundaries of the following regional districts, as those boundaries
existed on January 1, 2014:

(a) Regional District of Central Okanagan;
(b) Regional District of North Okanagan;
(c) Regional District of Okanagan-Similkameen;

(d) Columbia-Shuswap Regional District, except the part of
Columbia-Shuswap Regional District that is south and east of a line
commencing at the intersection of
latitude 50° 52' 58.23" north and longitude 117° 30'
west and proceeding due north to the intersection of latitude 51° 45'
north and longitude 117° 30' west and then proceeding due east and
terminating at latitude 51° 45' north and longitude 116° 57' 40" west.


South Coast Administrative Region


6
For the purpose of section 4.1 (f), the South Coast Administrative
Region consists of the geographic area of British Columbia within the
boundaries of the following regional districts, as those boundaries
existed on January 1, 2014:

(a) Fraser Valley Regional District;
(b) Metro Vancouver Regional District;
(c) Sunshine Coast Regional District;

(d) Squamish-Lillooet Regional District, except the part of
Squamish-Lillooet Regional District that is north and east of a line
commencing at the intersection of
latitude 50° 24' 54.5" north and
longitude 122° west and then proceeding due north to the
intersection of latitude 50° 45' north and
longitude 122° west and then proceeding due west to the
intersection of latitude 50° 45' north and
longitude 123° west and then proceeding due north and
terminating at the intersection of
latitude 51° 11' 47.63" north and
longitude 123° west.



