




Assessment Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 20






Definitions




1

(1)


In this Act:



"agricultural land reserve"

has the same meaning as in the

Agricultural Land Commission Act

;


"appraiser"
means a property valuator appointed under the

Assessment Authority Act

;


"assessment"
means a valuation and classification of property;



"assessment authority"

means the British Columbia Assessment Authority;



"assessment roll"

includes a revised assessment roll, a supplementary assessment roll
and any amendments made under sections 63 and 65 (10);



"assessment roll number"

means the alphanumeric identifier described as an assessment roll
number on an assessment roll and used to identify a particular
property;


"assessor"
means an assessor appointed under the

Assessment Authority Act

;


"board"
means the property assessment appeal board established under this Act;



"closed circuit television corporation"

includes a person operating for a fee or charge a television signal
receiving antenna or similar device, or equipment for the transmission
of television signals to television receivers of subscribers, or any
or all of those devices and equipment;



"electronic transmission"

means




(a)

the transmission of a notice by electronic means, or




(b)

the provision of access to a notice by electronic means;


"farm"
means an area of land classified as a farm under this Act;


"file"
, in relation to a notice or record required to be filed with an
assessor, the board or the assessment authority, includes mail to or
leave with the assessor, board or assessment authority or deposit in
the mail receptacle at their office;


"highway"
includes a street, road, lane, bridge, viaduct and any other way open
to the use of the public, but does not include a private right of way
on private property;



"improvements"

means any building, fixture, structure or similar thing constructed or
placed on or in land, or water over land, or on or in another
improvement, but does not include any of the following things unless
that thing is a building or is deemed to be included in this
definition by subsection (2):




(a)

production machinery;




(b)

anything intended to be moved as a complete unit in its day to day
use;




(c)

furniture and equipment that is not affixed for any purpose other than
its own stability and that is easily moved by hand;


"land"
includes




(a)

land covered by water,




(b)

quarries, and




(c)

sand and gravel,


but does not include coal or other minerals;



"land title office"

, in relation to real property, means, as applicable, the land title
office for the land title district, the land registry office of the
treaty first nation for the treaty lands, or the Nisg̱a'a land registry
for the Nisg̱a'a Lands, in which the real property is located;



"manufactured home"

means a manufactured home to which the

Manufactured Home Tax Act

applies;



"natural gas"

means a gaseous mixture of hydrocarbon and other gases received from
wells, and includes that gas after refinements;



"Nisg̱a'a land registry"

has the same meaning as in section 10.01 of the

Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement Act

;


"occupier"
means




(a)

a person who, if a trespass has occurred, is entitled to maintain an
action for trespass,




(b)

the person who is in possession of Crown land that is held under a
homestead entry, pre-emption record, lease, licence, agreement for
sale, accepted application to purchase, easement or other record from
the Crown, or who simply occupies the land,




(c)

a person who is in possession of land the fee of which is in a
municipality and that is held under a lease, licence, agreement for
sale, accepted application to purchase, easement or other record from
the municipality, or who simply occupies the land,




(d)

a person who is in possession of land the fee of which is in, or is
held on behalf of, a person who is exempted from taxation under an Act
and that is held under a lease, licence, agreement for sale, accepted
application to purchase, easement, or other record from the person
exempted from taxation or who simply occupies the land, or




(e)

in relation to land that




(i)

is Crown land, land the fee of which is in a municipality or land the
fee of which is in, or held on behalf of, a person who is exempted
from taxation under an Act, and




(ii)

in ordinary conditions




(A)

is covered by non-tidal water, or




(B)

sometime during a calendar year is covered by tidal water,


a person who is entitled under a licence or lease to possess or
occupy, or who simply occupies, the land, the water covering the land
or the surface of the water covering the land;


"owner"
, in respect of real property, means the registered owner of an estate
in fee simple, and includes,




(a)

if a person is a registered owner of a life estate, the tenant for
life,




(b)

if there is an agreement for sale and purchase of the real property,
the registered holder of the last registered agreement for sale and
purchase, and




(c)

if the real property is held or occupied in the manner referred to in
sections 26, 27 and 28, the holder or occupier;


"parcel"
means a lot, block, or other area in which real property is held or
into which real property is subdivided and includes the right or
interest of an occupier of Crown land, treaty lands of a treaty first
nation or Nisg̱a'a Lands, but does not include a highway or portion of
a highway;


"person"
includes a partnership, syndicate, association, corporation and the
agent and trustee of a person;


"petroleum"
or

"petroleum products"

means crude oil or liquid hydrocarbons, or any product or byproduct of
them;



"pipe line corporation"

means a person owning or operating a pipe line, all or any part of
which is located in British Columbia, for the purpose of gathering or
transporting natural gas, petroleum or petroleum products;



"production machinery"

means any




(a)

engine,




(b)

motor, or




(c)

machine


used to manufacture, process, repair or convey a product;


"property"
includes land and improvements;



"property class"

means a class of property prescribed under section 19 (14);


"registered"
and

"registration"

, in respect of real property, refer to registration in the books of
the land title office;



"registered owner"

or

"registered owner in fee simple"

means a person registered in the books of the land title office as
entitled to an estate in fee simple in real property, and, in respect
of a lesser estate, includes a person who registers a charge;



"review panel"

means a property assessment review panel appointed under
section 31;



"revised assessment roll"

means an assessment roll as amended under sections 10 and 42;


"rural area"
means an area of land in British Columbia that is not located within
the boundaries of a municipality;



"school district"

means a school district created under the

School Act

;


"spouse"
means




(a)

a person who is married to another person, or




(b)

a person who




(i)

is living with another person in a marriage-like relationship, and




(ii)

has been living in that relationship for a continuous period of at
least 2 years;



"taxation year"

means the calendar year to which an assessment roll applies for the
purposes of taxation as referred to in section 3 (2);



"taxing treaty first nation"

has the same meaning as in the

Treaty First Nation Taxation Act

;


"trustee"
includes




(a)

a committee under the

Patients Property Act

,




(b)

an attorney under Part 2 of the

Power of Attorney Act

,




(c)

a receiver, and




(d)

any person having or taking on the possession, administration or
control of property affected by any express trust, or having, by law,
the possession, management or control of the property of a person
under a legal disability.




(2)

Without limiting the definition of
"improvements"
in subsection (1), the following things are deemed to be included in
that definition unless excluded from it by a regulation under section
22 (1) (a) or 74 (2) (d):




(a)

anything that is an integral part of a building or structure and is
intended to serve or enhance the building or structure, including
elevators, escalators and systems for power distribution, heating,
lighting, ventilation, air conditioning, communications, security and
fire protection;




(b)

any building or structure that is capable of maintaining a controlled
temperature or containing a special atmosphere, including dry kilns,
steam chests, greenhouses and cooling towers;




(c)

any lighting fixtures, paving and fencing;




(d)

any




(i)

piling, retaining walls and bulkheads, and




(ii)

water system, storm drainage system and industrial or sanitary sewer
system,


the value of which is not included by the assessor in the value of the
land;




(e)

any foundations, such as footings, perimeter walls, slabs, pedestals,
piers, columns and similar things, including foundations for machinery
and equipment;




(f)

any pipe racks, tending platforms, conveyor structures and supports
for machinery and equipment, including structural members comprising
trestles, bents, truss and joist sections, stringers, beams, channels,
angles and similar things;




(g)

any aqueducts, dams, reservoirs and artificial lagoons and any tunnels
other than mine workings;




(h)

any roads, airstrips, bridges, trestles and towers, including ski
towers;




(i)

any mains, pipes or pipelines for the movement of fluids or gas;




(j)

any track in place, including railway track in place;




(k)

any pole lines, metallic or fibre optic cables, towers, poles, wires,
transformers, substations, conduits and mains that are used to provide
electric light, power, telecommunications, broadcasting,
rebroadcasting, transportation and similar services, including power
wiring for production machinery up to the main electrical panels or
motor control centre, those panels and that centre;




(l)

any vessels, such as tanks, bins, hoppers and silos, with a prescribed
capacity and any structure that is connected to those vessels;




(m)

docks, wharves, rafts and floats;




(n)

floating homes and any other floating structures and devices that are
used principally for purposes other than transportation;




(o)

that part of anything referred to in paragraphs (a) to (n) or of any
building, fixture, structure or similar thing that, whether or not
completed or capable of being used for the purpose for which it is
designed,




(i)

is being constructed or placed, and




(ii)

is intended, when completed, to constitute, or will with the addition
of further construction constitute, any of those things.




Part 1 — Preparation of Annual Assessment Roll





Estimates of assessed values




2


Before October 31 of each year, the assessment authority must supply
to each municipality and taxing treaty first nation and to the Nisg̱a'a
Nation




(a)

an estimate of the total assessed value of each property class in the
municipality, the treaty lands of the taxing treaty first nation or
Nisg̱a'a Lands, as applicable, and




(b)

for each property class specified for the purpose of this section by
regulation of the Lieutenant Governor in Council, estimates of the
distribution of value changes that have occurred in the property class
in the municipality, the treaty lands or Nisg̱a'a Lands, as applicable,
since the previous revised assessment roll and the completion of any
supplementary roll.






Completion of assessment roll




3

(1)


On or before December 31 of each year, the assessor must




(a)

complete a new assessment roll containing a list of each property that
is in a municipality, the treaty lands of a taxing treaty first
nation, Nisg̱a'a Lands or another rural area and that is liable to
assessment, and




(b)

deliver an assessment notice to each person named in the assessment
roll.




(2)

Subject to this Act, an assessment roll completed under subsection (1)
is the assessment roll for the purpose of taxation during the calendar
year following completion of that roll.




(3)

The assessment roll and assessment notice must be in the form and
contain the information specified by regulations made under the

Assessment Authority Act

.




(4)

When completing an assessment roll, the assessor must use the
information contained in the records of the land title office as those
records stood on November 30 of the year in which the assessment
roll is completed.




(5)

In the case of a parcel of land for which a land title office
description is not available, the assessor must use the best
description available to the assessor.




(6)

The assessor must exercise reasonable care in obtaining and setting
down the address of an owner, and must more particularly adopt the
following alternatives in the order named:




(a)

the address known to the assessor;




(b)

the address as it appears in the application for registration or
otherwise in the land title office.




(7)

If the address of the owner is not known to the assessor and is not
recorded in the land title office, the assessor must,




(a)

in the case of a city, town or village municipality, set down the
address of the owner as the main post office, and




(b)

in the case of a district municipality, the treaty lands of a taxing
treaty first nation, Nisg̱a'a Lands or another rural area, set down the
address of an owner as the post office located nearest the land in
question.




(8)

The assessment notice must be delivered to the person named in the
assessment roll




(a)

by mail at the address on the assessment roll, or




(b)

by electronic transmission, if the person provides authorization under
section 65.1 (1) (a), using the email address provided under
section 65.1 (2).






Request for copy of assessment notice




4

(1)


A holder of a registered charge may, at any time, give notice, with
full particulars of the nature, extent, and duration of the charge, to
the assessor and request copies of all assessment and tax notices
issued during the duration of the charge.




(2)

The assessor to whom a notice and request is given under subsection
(1) must enter the holder's name and address on the assessment roll.




(3)

The fee required under section 6 (5) does not apply in respect of a
request under subsection (1) of this section.






Splitting and grouping of parcels




5

(1)


Without limiting subsection (2), if a building or other improvement
extends over more than one parcel of land, those parcels, if
contiguous, may be treated by the assessor as one parcel and assessed
accordingly.




(2)

For the purposes of section 20.2, parcels of land and parts of parcels
of land may be treated by the assessor as one parcel and assessed
accordingly.






Assessment notice




6

(1)


Any number of parcels of land assessed in the name of the same owner
may be included in one assessment notice.




(2)

If several parcels of land are assessed in the name of the same owner
at the same value, the assessment notice is sufficient if it clearly
identifies the property assessed, setting it out as a block, parts of
a block or as a series of lots, without giving in full the description
of each parcel as it appears in the assessment roll.




(3)

Despite section 3, if property is wholly exempt from taxation, the
assessor need not deliver an assessment notice in respect of that
property.




(4)

[Repealed 2004-12-2.]




(5)

An assessor must provide, to any person who requests it and pays the
prescribed fee, the information contained in the current assessment
notice delivered by the assessor under section 3.




(6)

In subsection (7),
"lessee"
means a lessee holding property under a lease or sublease, other than
a registered lease or registered sublease, for a term of one year or
more.




(7)

After receiving an assessment notice for a property included in a
class specified for the purpose of this subsection by regulation of
the Lieutenant Governor in Council, the owner of the property must, on
request by a lessee of all or part of the property, promptly deliver a
copy of the notice to the lessee.






Providing assessment rolls




7

(1)


[Repealed 2004-12-3.]




(2)

The assessor must provide the following, as soon as they become
available, to the appropriate municipality, regional district or
taxing treaty first nation and to the Nisg̱a'a Nation:




(a)

the assessment roll completed under section 3;




(b)

the revised assessment roll;




(c)

an amendment to the assessment roll ordered or directed under
section 63 or 65 (10).




(3)

Despite section 69 (1), the assessment rolls and amendments referred
to in subsection (2) of this section must be provided to the
appropriate municipality, regional district or taxing treaty first
nation, and to the Nisg̱a'a Nation, free of charge.






Assessment roll available for inspection




8

(1)


An assessor must maintain the assessment roll for the geographic area
assigned to that assessor by the board of directors of the assessment
authority.




(2)

The assessment roll referred to in subsection (1) must be




(a)

available for public inspection during regular business hours at the
office of that assessor, and




(b)

in the format and presented in the manner prescribed by regulation.






Certification




9


Upon completion of an assessment roll, the assessor must certify in
writing that the assessment roll was completed in accordance with the
requirements of this Act.






Errors and omissions in completed assessment roll




10

(1)


In accordance with section 34, the assessor must notify a review panel
of all errors or omissions in the assessment roll completed under
section 3, except those errors or omissions corrected under
subsection (2).




(2)

Before March 16 of the year following the completion of the assessment
roll under section 3, the assessor may amend an individual entry in
the completed assessment roll to correct an error or omission, with
the consent of




(a)

the owner of the affected property, and




(b)

the complainant, if the complainant is not the owner of the affected
property.




(3)

Without limiting subsection (1), the assessor must give notice to the
review panel in respect of any of the following circumstances:




(a)

because of a change of ownership that occurs after November 30
and before the following January 1 and that is recorded in the
records of the land title office before that January 1,




(i)

land or improvements or both that were not previously liable to
taxation become liable to taxation, or




(ii)

land or improvements or both that were previously liable to taxation
cease to be liable to taxation;




(b)

after October 31 and before the following January 1, a
manufactured home is moved to a new location, substantially damaged or
destroyed;




(c)

after October 31 and before the following January 1, a
manufactured home is placed on land that has been assessed or the home
is purchased by the owner of land that has been assessed;




(c.1)

improvements, other than a manufactured home, that are assessable
under this Act




(i)

are substantially damaged or destroyed after October 31 and before the
following January 1, and




(ii)

cannot reasonably be repaired or replaced before the following January
1;




(d)

after November 30 and before the following January 1, land or
improvements or both are transferred to or from the British Columbia
Hydro and Power Authority and the transfer is recorded in the records
of the land title office before that January 1;




(e)

land or improvements or both that are owned by the British Columbia
Hydro and Power Authority are held or occupied by another person,
whose interest begins or ends after November 30 and before the
following January 1;




(f)

land or improvements or both that are owned by the British Columbia
Railway Company or by its subsidiary are held or occupied by another
person, whose interest begins or ends after November 30 and
before the following January 1;




(g)

land or improvements or both that are referred to in section 26,
27 or 28 are held or occupied by a person other than the owner of
the fee simple, and the interest of the holder or occupier begins or
ends after November 30 and before the following January 1.






Validity as confirmed by review panel




11


The revised assessment roll is, unless changed or amended under
section 12, 63 or 65 (10),




(a)

valid and binding on all parties concerned, despite




(i)

any omission, defect or error committed in, or with respect to, that
assessment roll,




(ii)

any defect, error or misstatement in any notice required, or




(iii)

the omission to deliver the notice, and




(b)

for all purposes, the assessment roll of the municipality, treaty
lands of the taxing treaty first nation, Nisg̱a'a Lands or other rural
area, as applicable, until the next revised assessment roll.






Supplementary roll




12

(1)


[Repealed 1998-22-6.]




(2)

If, after the completion of an assessment roll, the assessor finds
that any property or any thing liable to assessment




(a)

was liable to assessment for the current year, but has not been
assessed on the current roll, or




(b)

has been assessed for less than the amount for which it was liable to
assessment,


the assessor must assess the property or thing on a supplementary
roll, or further supplementary roll, subject to the conditions of
assessment governing the current assessment roll on which the property
or thing should have been assessed.




(3)

If, after the completion of an assessment roll, the assessor finds
that any property or any thing liable to assessment




(a)

was liable to assessment for a previous year, but has not been
assessed on the roll for that year, or




(b)

has been assessed in a previous year for less than the amount for
which it was liable to assessment,


the assessor must assess the property or thing on a supplementary roll
or further supplementary roll for that year, subject to the conditions
of assessment governing the assessment roll on which the property or
thing should have been assessed, but only if the failure to assess the
property or thing, or the assessment for less than it was liable to be
assessed, is attributable to




(c)

an owner's failure to disclose,




(d)

an owner's concealment of particulars relating to assessable property,




(e)

a person's failure to make a return, or




(f)

a person's making of an incorrect return,

required under this or any other Act.



(4)

Despite sections 10, 11 and 42, and in addition to supplementary
assessments under subsections (2) and (3), the assessor may,
at any time before December 31 of the year following completion
of the assessment roll under section 3, correct errors and
omissions in a completed assessment roll by means of entries in a
supplementary assessment roll.




(5)

The assessor must not make a change or amendment that would be
contrary to an amendment in the assessment roll ordered or directed by
the board under section 63 or 65 (10).




(6)

Nothing in subsection (2), (4) or (5) authorizes the preparation of a
supplementary roll, or the correction of a roll, for the purpose of
changing or updating an assessment roll later than 12 months after
that assessment roll is completed.






Provisions applicable to supplementary assessment roll




13

(1)


The duties imposed on the assessor with respect to the annual
assessment roll and the provisions of this Act relating to assessment
rolls, so far as they are applicable, apply to supplementary
assessment rolls.




(2)

On receipt of a notice of complaint under section 33 in respect of a
supplementary assessment roll, the assessor must




(a)

record receipt of the notice, and




(b)

if the complaint is not resolved under section 10 (2), ensure the
complaint is brought before a review panel at the next sitting of
review panels.




Part 2 — Inspections and Returns





Definition




13.1


In this Part,
"authorized person"
means any of the following:




(a)

the assessor;




(b)

an appraiser;




(c)

any other employee of the assessment authority who is authorized by
the assessment authority.






Inspections and assessment powers




14


An authorized person may, for any purposes relating to assessment,
enter into or on and inspect land and improvements.






Return of information




15

(1)


[Repealed 2007-13-9.]




(2)

At any time, an authorized person may by written notice require a
person who owns, occupies or disposes of property to provide to the
authorized person, within 21 days of the date on which the notice is
sent or a longer period specified in the notice, information for any
purpose related to the administration of this Act.




(3)

A person who does not provide information as required by notice under
subsection (2) commits an offence.




(4)

An authorized person is not bound by the information provided, but
may, if the authorized person has reason to doubt its accuracy, assess
the property in the manner and for the amount the authorized person
believes to be correct.






Power to examine property and accounts




16

(1)


An authorized person may enter on any premises and may examine any
property




(a)

to determine an assessment of land and improvements, in respect of
which the authorized person thinks a person may be liable to
assessment, or




(b)

to confirm an assessment.




(2)

An authorized person must be given access to, and may examine and take
copies of and extracts from, the books, accounts, vouchers, documents
and appraisals of the person referred to in subsection (1), who must,
on request, furnish every facility and assistance required for the
entry and examination.




(3)

An authorized person, a member of a review panel, a member of the
board or any other person who has custody or control of information or
records obtained or created under this Act must not disclose the
information or records to any other person except




(a)

in the course of administering this Act or performing functions under
it,




(b)

in proceedings before a review panel, the board or a court of law,




(c)

in accordance with subsection (4), or




(d)

in accordance with a regulation under subsection (6).




(4)

An authorized person may disclose to the agent of a property owner
confidential information relating to the property if the disclosure
has been authorized in the prescribed form by the owner or, if a form
has not been prescribed for the property class, authorized in writing
by the owner.




(5)

An agent must not use information disclosed under subsection (4)
except for the purposes authorized by the owner in the form or writing
referred to in that subsection.




(6)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations respecting the
disclosure of information obtained or created under this Act,
including, without limitation, information respecting the declared
value, financing and physical characteristics of property.






Assessor to be advised of sales, etc.




17

(1)


If land of the Crown or treaty lands have been leased, granted or
sold, the minister of the relevant ministry, or the representative
designated by the treaty first nation by notice in writing to the
assessment authority, as the case may be, must immediately advise the
assessor of the assessment area in which the land is located, the name
and address of the lessee, grantee or purchaser, the legal
description, consideration and other details of the transfer.




(2)

All public officers and officers and employees of Crown corporations
and agencies, and individuals occupying similar positions with a
treaty first nation or a public institution of a treaty first nation,
must, on the written request of an authorized person, provide without
fee all information as may be requested to complete assessments under
this Act.




Part 3 — Valuation





Valuation and status dates




18

(1)


For the purpose of determining the actual value of property for an
assessment roll, the valuation date is July 1 of the year during
which the assessment roll is completed.




(2)

The actual value of property for an assessment roll is to be
determined as if on the valuation date




(a)

the property and all other properties were in the physical condition
that they are in on October 31 following the valuation date, and




(b)

the permitted use of the property and of all other properties were the
same as on October 31 following the valuation date.




(3)

Subsection (2) (a) does not apply to property referred to in section
10 (3) (b), (c) or (c.1).




(4)

The actual value of property referred to in section 10 (3) (b), (c) or
(c.1) for an assessment roll is to be determined as if on the
valuation date the property was in the physical condition that it is
in on December 31 following the valuation date.






Property assessment




18.1


All land and improvements in British Columbia are liable to assessment
under this Act unless exempted from assessment under this or another
enactment.






Valuation for purposes of assessment




19

(1)


In this section:



"accommodation unit"

means a unit that is rented or offered for rent as overnight
accommodation for periods of less than 28 days for at least the
prescribed percentage of the 12-month period ending June 30 of the
year previous to the taxation year for which the assessment roll is
completed;



"actual value"

means the market value of the fee simple interest in land and
improvements;



"eligible residential property"

means a parcel of land on which there are improvements if




(a)

the parcel does not exceed 2.03 ha in area, and




(b)

the improvements are designed to accommodate and are used only to
accommodate no more than 3 families;



"eligible supportive housing property"

, in relation to a taxation year, means property that is used by or on
behalf of a person who received funding from the government or a
regional health board in the preceding calendar year for the provision
of supportive housing on that property;



"leasehold accommodation property"

means a parcel of land or contiguous parcels of land on which there
are buildings that




(a)

collectively include at least a prescribed number of leasehold units,
and




(b)

do not consist of any strata lots;



"leasehold unit"

means an accommodation unit




(a)

that is leased for a term of at least a prescribed number of years,
and




(b)

for which the lease is registered in the land title office;



"regional health board"

means a board as defined in section 1 of the

Health Authorities Act

;



"strata accommodation property"

means a strata lot in respect of which the following requirements are
met:




(a)

the strata lot is in a strata plan that, with or without contiguous
strata plans, includes 20 or more strata lots;




(b)

the strata lot is rented or offered for rent as overnight
accommodation for periods of less than 28 days for at least the
prescribed percentage of the 12-month period ending June 30 of the
year previous to the taxation year for which the assessment roll is
completed.




(1.1)

For the purposes of the definitions of "accommodation unit" and
"strata accommodation property", an accommodation unit or a strata lot
is not rented or offered for rent as overnight accommodation if the
accommodation unit or strata lot is used or available for parking,
storage or similar purposes or for commercial purposes other than
overnight accommodation.




(2)

The assessor must determine the actual value of land and improvements
and must enter the actual value of the land and improvements in the
assessment roll.




(3)

In determining actual value, the assessor may, except where this Act
has a different requirement, give consideration to the following:




(a)

present use;




(b)

location;




(c)

original cost;




(d)

replacement cost;




(e)

revenue or rental value;




(f)

selling price of the land and improvements and comparable land and
improvements;




(g)

economic and functional obsolescence;




(h)

any other circumstances affecting the value of the land and
improvements.




(4)

Without limiting the application of subsections (1) to (3), if an
industrial or commercial undertaking, a business or a public utility
enterprise is carried on, the land and improvements used by it must be
valued as the property of a going concern.




(5)

If the land and improvements are to be assessed under section 26,
27 or 28, the assessor must include in the factors that the
assessor considers under subsection (3), any restriction placed on the
use of the land and improvements by the owner of the fee.




(6)

The duration of the interest of a holder or occupier of land and
improvements referred to in subsection (5), or the right of the owner
of the fee to terminate that interest, is not a restriction within the
meaning of that subsection.




(7)

In determining actual value, the assessor must give consideration to
any terms or conditions contained, as applicable,




(a)

in a covenant registered under section 219 of the

Land Title Act

,




(b)

in a covenant or similar instrument registered under a law of a treaty
first nation in the land registry office of the treaty first nation,
or




(c)

in a covenant or similar instrument registered under a Nisg̱a'a law in
a Nisg̱a'a land registry.




(7.1)

Despite any provision of this Act, if a natural area exemption
certificate under Part 7.1 of the

Islands Trust Act

applies to a parcel, the actual value of the parcel is deemed to be
what it would be if




(a)

the protection covenant to which the natural area exemption
certificate relates did not apply, and




(b)

no natural area exemption certificate was in effect.




(8)

Despite any requirement of this section respecting actual value, if
the assessor receives, on or before January 31 in any year, from
the owner and occupier of eligible residential property, a notice in
the form prescribed by the assessment authority that the owner and
occupier owned and occupied the eligible residential property as the
owner and occupier's principal place of residence during the entire 10
year period ending on the preceding October 31, the actual value
of the eligible residential property, for the purpose of the
assessment roll for the calendar year following that October 31,
must be determined taking into consideration only the actual use of
the land and improvements that comprise the eligible residential
property and not taking into consideration any other use to which the
land or improvements could be put.




(9)

If eligible residential property is the subject of a notice referred
to in subsection (8) and the eligible residential property is, during
the lifetime of the owner and occupier, or by will or on an intestacy,
transferred to the spouse of the owner and occupier, the notice
continues to be a valid notice for the purposes of subsection (8), and
the spouse to whom the property is transferred is deemed to have owned
and occupied the eligible residential property as that spouse's
principal place of residence for the period referred to in
subsection (8) and may in subsequent years give the notice
referred to in subsection (8) on that basis.




(10)

Despite any requirement of this section respecting actual value, the
actual value of land and improvements must be determined by taking
into consideration the terms and conditions of any heritage protection
of the property if, on October 31 following the valuation date
under section 18, land and improvements, or a portion of the land and
improvements, is




(a)

designated under section 9 of the

Heritage Conservation Act

,




(b)

designated under section 611 of the

Local Government Act

or section 593 of the

Vancouver Charter

,




(c)

included under section 614 (3) (b) of the

Local Government Act

in a schedule to an official community plan,




(d)

treaty lands designated under a law of the treaty first nation enacted
for the purpose of conserving and protecting heritage sites and
heritage objects, or




(e)

Nisg̱a'a Lands designated under a Nisg̱a'a law enacted for the purpose
of conserving and protecting heritage sites and heritage objects.




(11)

Despite this or any other Act, the assessor, unless ordered by the
board of directors of the assessment authority, need not, in respect
of land and improvements that are exempt from taxation,




(a)

assess the land and improvements, or




(b)

prepare an annual assessment roll.




(12)

Despite this or any other Act, improvements designed, constructed or
installed to provide emergency protection for persons or domestic
animals in the event of
an emergency within the meaning of the



Emergency and Disaster Management Act



are exempt from assessment.




(13)

Land and improvements must be assessed at their actual value.




(14)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council must prescribe classes of property
for the purpose of administering property taxes and must define the
types or uses of land or improvements, or both, to be included in each
property class.




(14.01)

If the Lieutenant Governor in Council prescribes supportive housing
property as a class of property under subsection (14), the Lieutenant
Governor in Council may, by regulation, designate eligible supportive
housing property as included in the supportive housing property class
for a taxation year rather than defining the types or uses of land or
improvements to be included in that property class.




(14.02)

A designation under subsection (14.01)




(a)

is to be by assessment roll number, and




(b)

applies to the property that is identified by the assessment roll
number and that is used for the provision of supportive housing or for
purposes ancillary to the provision of supportive housing.




(14.03)

Subject to subsection (14.04), in order to be effective for a taxation
year, a regulation under subsection (14.01) must be in force on or
before October 31 in the preceding year.




(14.04)

If eligible supportive housing property




(a)

is included on a supplementary roll under section 26 (5) (a), and




(b)

is designated under subsection (14.01) of this section,


the designation, regardless of when the regulation under subsection
(14.01) comes into force, is effective for that portion of the
taxation year on and after the date that the assessor made the entry
on the supplementary roll.




(14.1)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations as follows:




(a)

prescribing a percentage for the purposes of the definition of "strata
accommodation property";




(a.1)

for the purposes of the definition of "accommodation unit",
prescribing a percentage;




(a.2)

for the purposes of the definition of "leasehold accommodation
property", prescribing a number of leasehold units;




(a.3)

for the purposes of the definition of "leasehold unit", prescribing a
number of years;




(b)

respecting the inclusion of leasehold accommodation property or strata
accommodation property in the class 1 property class for all or a
portion of a year if specified conditions are met, which conditions
may relate to any matters respecting the property, including matters
other than the defined type or use of land and improvements included
in that property class;




(c)

providing that strata accommodation property is not included in the
class 1 property class if the owner of the strata accommodation
property, and if the owner is a corporation, any affiliate, as defined
in the

Business Corporations Act

, of the owner, own more than a prescribed number or percentage of
strata accommodation properties in a strata plan or in contiguous
strata plans;




(c.1)

providing that leasehold accommodation property is not included in the
class 1 property class if a lessee of a leasehold unit in the
leasehold accommodation property, and if the lessee is a corporation,
any affiliate, as defined in the

Business Corporations Act

, of the lessee, lease more than a prescribed number or percentage of
the leasehold units in the leasehold accommodation property;




(c.2)

providing that leasehold accommodation property is not included in the
class 1 property class if the property has more than a prescribed
number or percentage of accommodation units that are not leasehold
units;




(d)

requiring the owner of a prescribed type of strata lot to supply to
the assessment authority, by a prescribed date, prescribed information
respecting the property required by the assessment authority to assess
the property, and different dates and information may be prescribed
for different types of strata lots;




(d.1)

requiring the owner of a prescribed type of leasehold accommodation
property to supply to the assessment authority, by a prescribed date,
prescribed information respecting the property required by the
assessment authority to assess the property, and different dates and
information may be prescribed for different types of properties;




(d.2)

prescribing information for the purposes of subsection (14.2) or
(14.4);




(e)

in relation to property that is classified in 2 or more property
classes, respecting the attribution of the actual value of the
property to each class by the assessor.




(14.2)

If a regulation made under subsection (14.1) (d) requires an owner to
supply information respecting a strata lot, the owner may supply
prescribed information in the form of an average number for all of the
strata lots of that type in the strata plan.




(14.3)

For the purposes of a regulation made under subsection (14.1) (d), an
average number supplied under subsection (14.2) is deemed to be
information supplied by the owner in respect of the strata lot,
subject to the owner supplying information that is specifically in
respect of the strata lot.




(14.4)

If a regulation made under subsection (14.1) (d.1) requires an owner
to supply information respecting accommodation units in a leasehold
accommodation property, the owner may supply prescribed information in
the form of an average number for all of the accommodation units in
the leasehold accommodation property.




(14.5)

For the purposes of a regulation made under subsection (14.1) (d.1),
an average number supplied under subsection (14.4) is deemed to be
information supplied by the owner in respect of each accommodation
unit in the leasehold accommodation property, subject to the owner
supplying information that is specifically in respect of an
accommodation unit.




(15)

The actual values of land and improvements determined under this
section must be set down separately on the assessment notice and in
the assessment roll together with information specified under section
3 (3).






Continued classification of strata lot in class 1




19.1

(1)


Despite the regulations under section 19, the assessor must classify a
strata lot as being in the class 1 property class if




(a)

except in respect of classifying the strata lot for the 2008 taxation
year, the strata lot




(i)

was classified as being only in the class 1 property class for the
previous taxation year, and




(ii)

met the requirements in paragraph (b) when the strata lot was
classified for the previous taxation year, and




(b)

the strata lot meets the following requirements:




(i)

the strata lot is in a strata plan that, with or without contiguous
strata plans, includes 20 or more strata lots;




(ii)

the strata lot is used or available for overnight accommodation;




(iii)

the strata lot is not




(A)

controlled or managed by one or more persons who control or manage 85%
or more of the strata lots in the strata plan or contiguous strata
plans referred to in subparagraph (i), or




(B)

offered for rent, or rented, for periods of less than 7 days as
overnight accommodation for at least 50% of the 12-month period ending
on June 30 of the year previous to the taxation year for which the
assessment roll is completed.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1) (b) (ii), a strata lot is not used
or available for overnight accommodation if the strata lot is used or
available for parking, storage or similar purposes or for commercial
purposes other than overnight accommodation.






Major industry valuation




20

(1)


In this section:



"cost of industrial improvement"

means the cost of replacing an existing industrial improvement with an
improvement that




(a)

has the same area and volume as the existing industrial improvement,




(b)

serves the same function that the existing industrial improvement was
designed for or, if the existing industrial improvement is no longer
used for that function, serves the same function that the existing
industrial improvement now serves, and




(c)

is constructed using current, generally accepted construction
techniques and materials for the type of improvement being
constructed;



"eligible major industry property"

means land and improvements that comprise property of the class
described in subsection (3), or a portion of land and improvements
that comprise that property, the actual value of which is directly
affected by a local government's adoption of an official community
plan under the

Local Government Act

;



"industrial improvement"

, subject to subsection (2), means an improvement that is part of a
plant, whether or not the plant can be operated as a going concern or
is temporarily or permanently unprofitable, if the plant is designed
and built for the purpose of one or more of the following:




(a)

mining, extracting, beneficiating or milling of metallic or
non-metallic ore;




(b)

mining, breaking, washing, grading or beneficiating of coal;




(c)

producing of aluminum;




(d)

smelting or refining of metal from ore or ore concentrate;




(e)

producing, manufacturing, processing or refining of petroleum or
natural gas;




(f)

manufacturing of lumber or other sawmill and planing mill products;




(g)

manufacturing of wood veneer, plywood, particle board, wafer board,
hardboard and similar products;




(h)

manufacturing of gypsum board;




(i)

manufacturing of pulp, paper or linerboard;




(j)

manufacturing of chemicals;




(k)

manufacturing of chemical fertilizer;




(l)

manufacturing of synthetic resins or the compounding of synthetic
resins into moulding compounds;




(m)

manufacturing of cement;




(n)

manufacturing of insulation;




(o)

manufacturing sheet glass or glass bottles;




(p)

building, refitting or repairing ships;




(q)

loading cargo onto sea-going ships or barges, and associated cargo
storage and loading facilities, including grain elevators;



"relevant year"

, in relation to eligible major industry property, means the year in
which the official community plan described in the definition of
"eligible major industry property" was adopted in respect of the
property.




(2)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may exempt from the definition of
"industrial improvement" improvements in a plant or class of plant
that has less than a prescribed capacity and may prescribe different
capacities for different types of plants.




(3)

Despite section 19, there is continued a class of properties
consisting of




(a)

land used in conjunction with the operation of industrial
improvements, and




(b)

industrial improvements.




(4)

The actual value of properties to which this section applies is




(a)

the actual value of the land as determined under section 19 or 20.3,
and




(b)

the cost of industrial improvements less depreciation that is at a
rate and applied in a manner prescribed by the Lieutenant Governor in
Council, and the Lieutenant Governor in Council may prescribe
different rates and different manners of application of depreciation
for individual properties or classes or types of properties.




(5)

For the purposes of the definition of "cost of industrial improvement"
in subsection (1), subject to the prior approval of the
Lieutenant Governor in Council, the assessment authority by order may
establish or adopt by reference manuals establishing rates, formulas,
rules or principles for the calculation of the cost of replacing an
existing industrial improvement described in that definition.




(5.1)

Copies, in print or electronic format, of the manuals established or
adopted under subsection (5) must be




(a)

kept at the offices of the assessment authority, and




(b)

made available for public inspection at those offices during normal
office hours.




(6)

If, for the year 2000 and subsequent taxation years, in the opinion of
the Lieutenant Governor in Council the assessed values for a class of
plant are substantially different in a taxation year than they were in
the previous taxation year, the Lieutenant Governor in Council may, by
regulation, order that the changes in assessed values be phased in by
the assessment authority as directed in the regulation.




(7)

For the purposes of subsection (6), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations specifying classes of plants for which changes in
assessed values are to be phased in over a period of up to 3 years and
for that purpose may make regulations




(a)

prescribing the manner in which the changes in assessed values are to
be phased in, and




(b)

prescribing different rates and different periods of time for the
phasing in of changes in assessed values for different classes of
plants.




(8)

Despite sections 18 (2) and 19 respecting actual value, but subject to
subsections (9) and (12) of this section, if the assessor receives, on
or before December 31 in the relevant year, from the owner and
occupier of eligible major industry property, a notice in the form
prescribed by the assessment authority that, during the 2 taxation
years following the relevant year, the owner and occupier intends




(a)

to operate the industrial improvements on the eligible major industry
property as a going concern, and




(b)

to use the eligible major industry property for the same purpose and
at an equivalent or greater level of production as at the time the
notice is given,


the actual value of the eligible major industry property, for the
purpose of the assessment roll for the 2 taxation years following the
relevant year, must be determined by taking into consideration only
the actual use of the land and improvements that comprise the eligible
major industry property and not taking into consideration any other
use to which the land or improvements could be put.




(9)

If, after completing an assessment roll for a taxation year referred
to in subsection (8), the assessor determines that, at any time before
December 31 in that year, the operation or use of eligible major
industry property for which notice was given under that subsection is
not consistent with the operation or use described in the notice, the
assessor must




(a)

determine the actual value of the eligible major industry property in
accordance with subsection (4), and




(b)

reassess the eligible major industry property by means of an entry on
a supplementary assessment roll.




(10)

If, on or before October 31 in the later of the 2 taxation years
referred to in subsection (8), the assessor receives, from the owner
and occupier of eligible major industry property for which notice was
given under that subsection, a notice in the form prescribed by the
assessment authority that, during one or more subsequent taxation
years, the owner and occupier intends




(a)

to operate the industrial improvements on the eligible major industry
property as a going concern, and




(b)

to use the eligible major industry property for the same purpose and
at an equivalent or greater level of production as at the time notice
was given under subsection (8),


the Lieutenant Governor in Council, by order made on or before
December 31 in the later of the 2 taxation years referred to in
subsection (8), may extend the application of that subsection to the
eligible major industry property for one or more subsequent taxation
years, as specified in the order.




(11)

If an order is made under subsection (10) in respect of eligible major
industry property for a taxation year,




(a)

despite sections 18 (2) and 19 respecting actual value, but subject to
paragraph (b) of this subsection, the actual value of the eligible
major industry property for the purpose of the assessment roll for the
taxation year must be determined in accordance with subsection (8) of
this section, and




(b)

subsection (9) applies in relation to the eligible major industry
property for the taxation year.




(12)

Notice may be provided under subsection (8) or (10) only once in
relation to an eligible major industry property.






Special valuation rules for dams, power plants and substations




20.1

(1)


In this section:


"dam"
means any structure designed and built to control or store water
flowing in a water course for the purposes of, or for purposes
ancillary to, generating electricity;



"power plant"

means any structure designed and built to




(a)

contain boilers, turbines or compressors for the purposes of, or for
purposes ancillary to, generating electricity, or




(b)

support, contain or have affixed to it components that convert
sunlight into electricity, either directly or indirectly, if the
primary purpose of the structure is for use in the business of
generating electricity;


"substation"
means a facility at which electric current is switched, transformed or
converted




(a)

at a dam or a power plant,




(b)

between a power plant and a transmission system, or




(c)

between a transmission system and a distribution network.




(2)

This section applies to properties where there is a dam, power plant
or substation, other than properties to which section 20 applies.




(3)

Despite any other section of this Act, the actual value of a property
to which this section applies is




(a)

the actual value of the land as determined under section 19 or 20.3,
and




(b)

the cost of




(i)

the dams, power plants and substations on the property, and




(ii)

any other improvements on the property, except those exempted under
subsection (4.1),


determined in accordance with the manuals described in subsection (4)
of this section, less depreciation determined in accordance with the
rates and applied in the manner prescribed under subsection (4.1) of
this section.




(4)

For the purposes of this section, subject to the prior approval of the
Lieutenant Governor in Council, the assessment authority by order may
establish or adopt by reference manuals establishing rates, formulas,
rules or principles for the calculation of cost.




(4.1)

For the purposes of this section, the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations




(a)

excluding from the definition of "improvements" any category or type
of thing used in the generation of electricity at a power plant, and




(b)

prescribing depreciation rates and principles for the application of
depreciation.




(5)

Orders under subsection (4) and regulations under
subsection (4.1) (b) may be different for individual
properties or properties with different categories of dams, power
plants and substations.




(6)

Copies, in print or electronic format, of the manuals established or
adopted by order under subsection (4) must be




(a)

kept at the offices of the assessment authority, and




(b)

made available for public inspection at those offices during normal
office hours.






Special valuation rules for designated ski hill property




20.2

(1)


In this section:



"designated ski hill property"

means eligible property that is designated under
subsection (4) (a);



"eligible property"

means land identified by a specific assessment roll number, and any
improvements on that land, if the following apply to the property:




(a)

in the case of land on which there are improvements, all the
improvements are recreational improvements;




(b)

in the case of land on which there are no improvements, the land is
necessarily incidental to the provision of recreational activities on
a ski hill;



"recreational improvements"

means improvements used to provide recreational activities on a ski
hill, including




(a)

lifts, tows, day-use facilities, parking facilities, trails,
snowmaking piping, surfaced pathways, service roads or other
facilities or works, and




(b)

utilities that support the facilities or works referred to in
paragraph (a) and that are not assessed as property in class 2 under
the Prescribed Classes of Property Regulation.




(2)

The actual value of designated ski hill property is the actual value
as determined in accordance with the regulations.




(3)

For the purposes of entry on the assessment roll, the actual value by
classification of land and improvements that are designated ski hill
property is the actual value of the designated ski hill property
apportioned to the land and improvements in each property class in
accordance with the regulations.




(4)

For the purposes of this section, the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations as follows:




(a)

designating eligible property as ski hill property;




(b)

establishing rates, formulas, rules or principles for determining the
actual value of designated ski hill property;




(c)

respecting the apportionment of the actual value of designated ski
hill property between property classes and between land and
improvements for the purposes of entry on the assessment roll.




(5)

A designation under subsection (4) (a)




(a)

is to be by assessment roll number, and




(b)

applies to the land identified by the assessment roll number and to
all improvements on that land, whether the improvements were on the
land at the date of designation or added later.




(6)

In order to be effective for a taxation year, a regulation under
subsection (4) (a) must be in force on or before October 31 in the
preceding year.




(7)

Without limiting subsection (4) (b), regulations made under that
subsection may do one or more of the following:




(a)

determine actual value based in whole or in part on revenue relating
to the designated ski hill property;




(b)

treat designated ski hill properties as one designated ski hill
property for the purposes of determining actual value and provide for
the apportionment of the actual value between the designated ski hill
properties;




(c)

in determining actual value, provide for adjustments in respect of
fluctuating revenues or actual value over a specified period.




(8)

In making regulations under this section, the Lieutenant Governor in
Council may do one or both of the following:




(a)

define classes of designated ski hill properties;




(b)

make different regulations for different designated ski hill
properties or for different classes defined under paragraph (a).






Special valuation rules for designated port land




20.3

(1)


In this section:



"designated port land"

means land that




(a)

is designated under subsection (3) (a), and




(b)

is assessed as property in the class referred to in section 20 (3);



"eligible port land"

means land identified by a specific assessment roll number if the
following apply to that land and the improvements on that land:




(a)

the land is located next to a navigable waterway;




(b)

the land and the improvements on that land are assessed, in whole or
in part, as property in the class referred to in section 20 (3);




(c)

the land and improvements on that land




(i)

include one or more improvements that are assessed as property in the
class referred to in section 20 (3) by reason of being industrial
improvements within the meaning of paragraph (q)
[sea-going cargo loading and storage]
of the definition of "industrial improvement" in section 20 (1), or




(ii)

are used or held primarily in association with property that is
otherwise eligible port land;




(d)

the land and the improvements on that land, when considered as a
whole, are not primarily used or held for the purpose of the transport
of crude oil or petroleum fuel products or both, or for purposes that
are ancillary to that transport;




(e)

the improvements referred to in paragraph (c) (i) are not primarily
used or held for the purpose of the transport of products from an
industrial production or processing facility that is on the land or is
near that land, or for purposes that are ancillary to that transport.




(2)

The actual value of designated port land is the actual value as
determined in accordance with the regulations.




(3)

For the purposes of this section, the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations as follows:




(a)

designating land that is eligible port land on the date of
designation;




(b)

prescribing the actual value of designated port land;




(c)

establishing rates, formulas, rules or principles for determining the
actual value of designated port land.




(4)

A designation under subsection (3) (a)




(a)

is to be by assessment roll number as at a date specified in the
regulation, and




(b)

applies to the land that




(i)

is identified by the assessment roll number, and




(ii)

is assessed as property in the class referred to in section 20 (3).




(5)

[Repealed 2010-2-59.]




(6)

Despite section 74 (5), if land




(a)

is included on a supplementary roll under section 26 (5) (a), and




(b)

is designated under subsection (3) (a) of this section,


the designation, regardless of when the regulation under subsection
(3) (a) comes into force, is effective for that portion of the
taxation year on and after the date that the assessor made the entry
on the supplementary roll.




(6.1)

Despite section 74 (5), if




(a)

an entry is made on a supplementary roll under section 26 (5) (b) with
respect to land that is designated under subsection (3) (a) of this
section, and




(b)

the Lieutenant Governor in Council rescinds the designation,


the rescission, regardless of when the regulation rescinding the
designation comes into force, is effective for that portion of the
taxation year on and after the date that the assessor made the entry
on the supplementary roll.




(7)

Without limiting subsection (3) (c), in making regulations under that
subsection, the Lieutenant Governor in Council may provide for




(a)

the use of a consumer price index published by Statistics Canada under
the

Statistics Act

(Canada), and




(b)

any matters respecting the use of a consumer price index.






Special valuation rules for supportive housing property




20.4

(1)


Despite any other section of this Act, the actual value of a property
in the supportive housing property class is the actual value otherwise
determined under this Act reduced by an amount established by the
Lieutenant Governor in Council by regulation.




(2)

For the purposes of this section, the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations as follows:




(a)

establishing the amount for the purposes of subsection (1);




(b)

establishing rates, formulas, rules or principles for determining the
amount for the purposes of subsection (1);




(c)

respecting the apportionment of the actual value of property in the
supportive housing property class between land and improvements for
the purposes of entry on the assessment roll.






Special valuation rules for restricted-use property




20.5

(1)


In this section:



"designated restricted-use property"

means eligible property that is designated under subsection (4) (a);



"eligible person"

means a prescribed person or a person in a prescribed category of
persons who uses property under a restricted-use agreement on a
not-for-profit basis or whose use of property under a restricted-use
agreement is publicly funded;



"eligible property"

, in relation to a taxation year, means property




(a)

that is used by an eligible person, and




(b)

that is either




(i)

to be assessed under section 26, 27 or 28, or




(ii)

owned by a not-for-profit corporation and held or occupied under a
lease, licence or other agreement, whether or not the property is to
be assessed under section 26, 27 or 28;



"restricted-use agreement"

, with respect to a property, means a lease, licence or other
agreement under which the use of the property is restricted to the
provision of a service of benefit to the public.




(2)

The actual value of designated restricted-use property is the actual
value as determined in accordance with the regulations.




(3)

For the purposes of entry on the assessment roll, the actual value by
classification of land and improvements that are designated
restricted-use property is the actual value of the designated
restricted-use property apportioned to the land and improvements in
each property class in accordance with the regulations.




(4)

For the purposes of this section, the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations as follows:




(a)

designating eligible property as restricted-use property;




(b)

prescribing persons or categories of persons for the purposes of the
definition of "eligible person" in subsection (1);




(c)

prescribing the actual value of designated restricted-use property;




(d)

establishing rates, formulas, rules or principles for determining the
actual value of designated restricted-use property;




(e)

respecting the apportionment of the actual value of designated
restricted-use property between property classes and between land and
improvements for the purposes of entry on the assessment roll.




(5)

A designation under subsection (4) (a)




(a)

is to be by assessment roll number, and




(b)

applies to the property identified by the assessment roll number.




(6)

Despite section 74 (5), if property




(a)

is included on a supplementary roll under section 26 (5) (a), and




(b)

is designated under subsection (4) (a) of this section,


the designation, regardless of when the regulation under subsection
(4) (a) comes into force, is effective for that portion of the
taxation year on and after the date that the assessor made the entry
on the supplementary roll.




(7)

Despite section 74 (5), if




(a)

an entry is made on a supplementary roll under section 26 (5) (b) with
respect to property that is designated under subsection (4) (a) of
this section, and




(b)

the Lieutenant Governor in Council rescinds the designation,


the rescission, regardless of when the regulation rescinding the
designation comes into force, is effective for that portion of the
taxation year on and after the date that the assessor made the entry
on the supplementary roll.




(8)

Without limiting subsection (4) (c) or (d), regulations made under
that subsection may do one or both of the following:




(a)

in determining actual value, provide for adjustments over a specified
period;




(b)

provide for the use of a consumer price index published by Statistics
Canada under the

Statistics Act

(Canada) and for any matters respecting that use.




(9)

In making regulations under this section, the Lieutenant Governor in
Council may do one or both of the following:




(a)

define categories of designated restricted-use property;




(b)

make different regulations for different designated restricted-use
properties or categories defined under paragraph (a).






Valuation for certain purposes not actual value




21

(1)


The actual value of the following must be determined using rates
prescribed by the assessment authority:




(a)

the pole lines, metallic or fibre optic cables, towers, poles, wires,
transformers, conduits and mains of a telecommunications, trolley
coach, bus or electrical power corporation, but not including
substations;




(b)

the track in place of a railway corporation, whether the track is on a
public highway or on a privately owned right of way;




(c)

the pipe lines of a pipe line corporation for the transportation of
petroleum, petroleum products or natural gas, including valves,
cleanouts, fastenings, and appurtenances located on the right of way,
but not including distribution pipelines, pumping equipment,
compressor equipment, storage tanks and buildings;




(d)

the right of way for pole lines, cables, towers, poles, wires,
transformers, conduits, mains and pipe lines referred to in paragraphs
(a) and (c);




(e)

the right of way for track referred to in paragraph (b).




(2)

In prescribing rates respecting improvements referred to in subsection
(1) (a) to (c), the assessment authority




(a)

must base the rates on the average current cost of the existing
improvements,




(b)

may, within the rates, make an allowance for physical depreciation,




(b.1)

may, within the rates, make an allowance for a decline in the cost of
constructing or installing a similar improvement of the same or
similar functional utility,




(c)

may express the rates in terms of an amount




(i)

per customer served by the improvements, or




(ii)

per kilometre of the improvements that may vary according to




(A)

the size of the improvements,




(B)

the capacity of the improvements,




(C)

the type of use or extent of use of the improvements, or




(D)

the location of the improvements, and




(d)

may prescribe different rates or a reduction in rates for improvements
that should, in the opinion of the assessment authority, be valued
differently from other improvements of the same type by reason of




(i)

lack of use for a period specified in the regulation,




(ii)

in the case of railway track in place, use at less than its annual
rated capacity, or




(iii)

other special circumstances that are specified in the regulation and
relate to the construction or installation of the improvements.




(3)

For the purposes of subsection (2):



"average current cost"

means the cost to construct or install the existing improvements




(a)

including all materials, labour, overhead and indirect costs, and




(b)

assuming the improvements were to be constructed or installed




(i)

on July 1 in the year previous to the year in which the assessment
roll is prepared, and




(ii)

at a location that has average construction and installation
difficulty;



"functional utility"

means the ability of an improvement to meet market standards.




(4)

In prescribing rates respecting the right of way referred to in
subsection (1) (d) and (e), the assessment authority
must base the rates on the criteria prescribed under
section 74 (2) (f).




(4.1)

If, in the opinion of the assessment authority, the rate prescribed
for the purposes of subsection (1) is substantially different in a
taxation year than it was in the previous taxation year, the
assessment authority, by regulation, may order that the rate change be
phased in as directed in the regulation.




(4.2)

For the purposes of subsection (4.1), the assessment authority may
make regulations specifying types of improvements or rights of way for
which rate changes are to be phased in over a period of up to 3 years
and for that purpose may make regulations




(a)

prescribing the manner in which the rate changes are to be phased in,
and




(b)

prescribing different rates and periods of time for the phasing in of
rate changes for different types of improvements or rights of way.




(5)

The rates prescribed by the assessment authority are subject to appeal
to the board by notice filed with the board and the assessment
authority before February 1 following delivery of the assessment
notice.




(6)

An appeal under subsection (5) of rates prescribed in respect of
improvements referred to in subsection (1) (a) to (c) must be made,
heard and decided only on the ground that the assessment authority did
not prescribe the rates in accordance with one or more of subsection
(2) (a), (b) or (b.1).




(7)

The notice of appeal filed with the board must be accompanied by the
prescribed fee.




(8)

For the purposes of an appeal under this section, sections 50 (4) (b)
to (g) and (5), 52 (2), 55 and 59 to 62 and Part 7 apply
with all necessary changes.




(9)

If, on an appeal referred to in subsection (6), the board decides that
the assessment authority did not prescribe the rates in accordance
with one or both of paragraphs (a) and (b) of subsection (2), the
board must




(a)

refer the rates back to the assessment authority for the purpose of
prescribing new rates under subsection (10), and




(b)

advise the assessment authority of its reasons.




(10)

If rates prescribed under subsection (1) (a), (b) or (c) are referred
back to the assessment authority by the board, the assessment
authority may prescribe new rates to replace those rates within




(a)

3 months after the date on which the board referred the rates back to
the assessment authority, or




(b)

a period of time longer than 3 months that the board, on application
by the assessment authority, may direct.




(11)

Rates prescribed under subsection (1) (a), (b) or (c) that are
referred back to the assessment authority by the board remain in full
force until




(a)

new rates are prescribed under subsection (10), or




(b)

the time for prescribing new rates under subsection (10) has expired,

whichever is earlier.



(12)

Rates prescribed under subsection (10)




(a)

apply for the purposes of assessment and taxation for the taxation
years to which the rates they are replacing applied, and




(b)

may, within one month after the date on which they were prescribed, be
appealed as if they were rates prescribed under subsection (1).




(13)

For the purposes of subsection (1) (d),
"right of way"
does not include




(a)

land of which the corporation referred to in subsection (1) (a) or (c)
is not the owner within the meaning of this Act, and




(b)

land that the corporation referred to in subsection (1) (a) or (c)
leases to a lessee.




(14)

For the purposes of subsection (1) (e),
"right of way"
means land that meets the criteria prescribed under section 74 (2)
(e).




(15)

For the purpose of applying subsection (1) (b), the

"track in place of a railway corporation"

includes all structures, erections and things, other than any
buildings, bridges, trestles, viaducts, overpasses and similar things,
coal bunkers, corrals, stand pipes, fuel oil storage tanks, oil
fuelling equipment, water tanks, station houses, engine houses,
roundhouses, turntables, docks, wharves, freight sheds, weigh scales,
repair and cleaning shops and equipment, boiler houses, offices, sand
towers and equipment, pavement, platforms, yard fencing and lighting,
powerhouses, transmission stations or substations, and the separate
equipment for each of them, that are necessary for the operation of
the railway.






Special rules for railway property




22

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations as follows:




(a)

excluding from the definition of "improvements" bridges, trestles,
viaducts, overpasses and similar things that carry track in place of a
railway corporation;




(b)

prescribing adjustment factors for property of a railway corporation;




(c)

prescribing, for the purposes of section 21 (1) (e), in relation to a
specified jurisdiction or authority to or for which taxes are to be
paid, or a specified class of those jurisdictions and authorities,
criteria for land that is to be dealt with as right of way that differ
from the criteria prescribed under section 74 (2) (e).




(2)

Regulations under this section may be different for one or more of the
following:




(a)

different property to which different rates under section 21
apply;




(b)

different bridges and other property as specified in the regulations;




(c)

different jurisdictions or authorities to or for which taxes are to be
paid, or classes of those jurisdictions or authorities;




(d)

different areas or classes of area as specified in the regulations.




(3)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make a regulation under this
section only after the minister has consulted with representatives of
the Union of British Columbia Municipalities respecting the proposed
regulation.




(4)

Despite any other section of this Act, the actual value of property
for which an adjustment factor is prescribed under subsection (1) (b),
other than property to which section 25 applies, is the actual
value as otherwise determined under this Act multiplied by the
adjustment factor.




(5)

For the 1996 taxation year, the Lieutenant Governor in Council may
make a regulation under this section only in relation to taxes under
the

School Act

.






Classification of land as a farm




23

(0.1)


In this section:



"owner's dwelling"

means the dwelling referred to in subsection (3.1) (a) (iii);


"retire"
means retire from being actively involved in the day-to-day activities
on a farm;



"retired farmer"

means an individual




(a)

who, at all times during a prescribed period or periods of time,




(i)

occupied, as the individual's principal residence, a dwelling that was
owned by the individual or the individual's spouse and was located on
land that was




(A)

owned by the individual or the individual's spouse,




(B)

used for the dwelling, and




(C)

classified as a farm, and




(ii)

was actively involved in the day-to-day activities on land that was




(A)

owned by the individual or the individual's spouse,




(B)

classified as a farm, and




(C)

part of the parcel or adjacent to the parcel on which the dwelling was
located, and




(b)

who has retired.




(1)

An owner of land who wants all or part of the land classified as a
farm must apply to the assessor using the application form, and
following the procedure, prescribed by the assessment authority.




(2)

Subject to this Act, the assessor must classify as a farm any land, or
any part of a parcel of land, that meets the standards prescribed
under subsection (3).




(3)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council must prescribe standards for
classification of land as a farm.




(3.1)

Despite this Act and any regulations made under this Act except a
regulation made under subsection (3.2), the assessor must, on receipt
of an application from an owner of land in respect of a taxation year,
classify the land as a farm for the taxation year if the following
requirements are met:




(a)

when the application is made, the owner




(i)

is




(A)

a retired farmer,




(B)

the spouse of a retired farmer, or




(C)

a person who was the spouse of a retired farmer at the time of the
retired farmer's death,




(ii)

has reached the prescribed age, and




(iii)

owns a dwelling on the land and occupies the dwelling as the owner's
principal residence;




(b)

if the owner is a person referred to in paragraph (a) (i) (B) or (C),
the owner meets the prescribed requirements, if any;




(c)

when the application is made, the land is used for the owner's
dwelling;




(d)

when the retired farmer retired,




(i)

the retired farmer or the retired farmer's spouse owned the owner's
dwelling,




(ii)

the owner occupied the owner's dwelling as the owner's principal
residence,




(iii)

the land was classified as a farm, and




(iv)

the retired farmer met the prescribed requirements, if any;




(e)

the land is in the agricultural land reserve, within the meaning of
the

Agricultural Land Commission Act

, on October 31 of the year preceding the taxation year in
respect of which the application is made;




(f)

the owner's dwelling is located




(i)

on a parcel of land that, under subsection (2), is classified in whole
or in part as a farm for the taxation year in respect of which the
application is made, or




(ii)

on a parcel of land adjacent to a parcel of land




(A)

that is owned by the owner or the owner's spouse, and




(B)

that, under subsection (2), is classified in whole or in part as a
farm for the taxation year in respect of which the application is
made;




(g)

the application is




(i)

in the form prescribed by the assessment authority, and




(ii)

received by the assessor on or before October 31 of the year
preceding the taxation year in respect of which the application is
made;




(h)

the requirements, if any, prescribed by regulation.




(3.2)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations respecting
classification of land as a farm under subsection (3.1), including,
without limitation, for the purposes of subsections (0.1) and (3.1).




(3.3)

In making regulations under subsection (3.2), the Lieutenant Governor
in Council may make different regulations for different classes of
persons, classes of land, classes of places or classes of things.




(4)

Land classified as a farm must, while so classified, be valued at its
actual value as a farm, without regard to its value for other
purposes.




(5)

The actual value of improvements on a farm must be determined under
section 19.




(6)

If land classified as a farm ceases to meet the standards for that
classification merely because the farm is reduced in area as a result
of a portion being expropriated for a public purpose, the land
continues to be classified as a farm until it no longer meets the
standards in some other respect.




(7)

For the purposes of valuing a farm under subsection (4), the
assessment authority must prescribe land value schedules for use by
assessors in determining the actual value of the land as a farm
without regard to its value for other purposes.




(8)

In subsections (9) and (10),
"assessed value"
means assessed value before exemptions.




(9)

If the assessed value determined under section 19 (13) for any year of
land classified as a farm exceeds the assessed value for the preceding
year by more than 10%, its assessed value for that year is the total
of




(a)

110% of the assessed value for the preceding year, and




(b)

25% of the difference between the assessed value determined under
section 19 (13) for that year and 110% of the assessed value
for the preceding year.




(10)

If an obvious error or omission occurred in the preparation of the
assessed value in the preceding year, the assessed value under
subsection (9) must be determined as though the error or omission had
not occurred.






Classification and valuation of forest land




24

(1)


In this section:


"council"
means the Private Managed Forest Land Council established under
section 4 of the

Private Managed Forest Land Act

;



"managed forest land"

means land, other than farm land,




(a)

that is being used for the production and harvesting of timber,




(b)

that is managed in accordance with




(i)

the

Private Managed Forest Land Act

and the regulations under that Act, or




(ii)

the

Forest and Range Practices Act

,




(c)

in respect of which




(i)

there is a management commitment under section 17 of the

Private Managed Forest Land Act

, or




(ii)

a management plan has been approved under the

Forest Act

,




(d)

with respect to paragraphs (b) (i) and (c) (i), for which the assessor




(i)

receives notification from the council under section 17 (4) of the

Private Managed Forest Land Act

, and




(ii)

has not received notification from the council under
section 31 (1) or (2) (b) of the

Private Managed Forest Land Act

, and




(e)

that meets other requirements prescribed by regulation of the
assessment authority for classification of land as managed forest land
under this Act;


"timber"
means timber as defined in the

Forest Act

.




(2)

The assessor must classify as managed forest land any land that meets
the requirements set out in the definition of "managed forest land".




(3)

The assessor must declassify all or part of a parcel of land as
managed forest land if the assessor is




(a)

notified by September 30 of the year in which the assessment roll is
completed,




(i)

under section 31 (1) of the

Private Managed Forest Land Act

that the owner or a contractor, an employee or an agent of the owner
has contravened or is contravening a provision of that Act or the
regulations made under it, or




(ii)

under section 31 (2) (b) of the

Private Managed Forest Land Act

that the owner has withdrawn the owner's management commitment, or




(b)

not satisfied, on September 30 of the year in which the assessment
roll is completed, that the land meets all requirements to be
classified as managed forest land.




(4)

The actual value of managed forest land is the total of




(a)

the value that the land has for the purpose of growing and harvesting
trees, but without taking into account the existence on the land of
any trees, and




(b)

a value for cut timber determined in accordance with subsection (8).




(5)

Despite subsection (4), if land is classified as managed forest land
but its classification changes before the value of timber cut on the
land is added to the value of the land for assessment purposes,




(a)

the value of the cut timber must be added to the value of the land,
and




(b)

the cut timber must be assessed as if the land were still managed
forest land.




(6)

The actual value of managed forest land must be determined on the
basis of its topography, accessibility, soil quality, parcel size and
location.




(7)

For the purpose of valuing managed forest land, the assessment
authority must prescribe land value schedules for use by assessors in
determining the actual value of the land.




(8)

The value of cut timber referred to in subsection (5) (b) must be
determined by the assessor as follows:




(a)

for the purpose of taxation during an odd numbered year, the value
must be determined on the basis of




(i)

the scale of that timber under the

Forest Act

during the last odd numbered year before that taxation year, and




(ii)

schedules of timber values prescribed by the assessment authority
under subsection (9);




(b)

for the purpose of taxation during an even numbered year, the value
must be determined on the basis of




(i)

the scale of that timber under the

Forest Act

during the last even numbered year before that taxation year, and




(ii)

schedules of timber values prescribed by the assessment authority
under subsection (9).




(9)

The assessment authority must prescribe schedules of timber values
based on the following factors:




(a)

the species and grade of logs;




(b)

the locality in which the timber is cut;




(c)

in relation to timber cut from a coastal area as defined in the
regulations, the average price for logs in the year of cutting
determined on the basis of the value reported for the Vancouver log
market and the distance from Howe Sound of the parcel on which the
cutting occurred;




(d)

in relation to timber cut from an interior area as defined in the
regulations, the average price for logs, delivered to the nearest
sawmill, in the year of cutting determined on the basis of the selling
prices of timber products, the costs of milling and the distance from
the nearest sawmill of the parcel on which the cutting occurred.




(10)

An owner of managed forest land must submit to the assessment
authority the following information respecting the forest land:




(a)

the volume of timber scaled under the

Forest Act

;




(b)

other matters prescribed by regulation of the assessment authority;




(c)

other information that the assessment authority may require that is
not inconsistent with this Act and the regulations.






Occupiers of railway land




25

(1)


If any parcel liable to assessment is railway land and part of it is
leased, that part must be treated under this Act as a separate parcel
and a separate entry made on the assessment roll in respect of the
land or improvements or both.




(2)

If part of a parcel of railway land is treated as a separate parcel
under subsection (1), the remainder of the parcel must be treated
under this Act as a separate parcel and a separate entry made on the
assessment roll in respect of the land or improvements or both.




(3)

The actual value of land or improvements, or both, referred to in
subsection (1) or (2) must be determined under
section 19.




(4)

If the whole of any parcel of railway land liable to assessment is
leased or a part of a parcel is assessed under subsection (1), the
owner or lessee may give notice, with full particulars of the duration
of the lease, to the assessor and request that copies of all
assessment and tax notices issued during the duration of the lease be
sent to the lessee.




(5)

After receiving a notice under subsection (4), the assessor must enter
the name and address of the lessee on the assessment roll.






Assessment of land the fee of which is in the Crown




26

(1)


Land, the fee of which is in the Crown, or in some person on behalf of
the Crown, that is held or occupied otherwise than by, or on behalf
of, the Crown, is, with the improvements on it, to be assessed in
accordance with this section.




(2)

The land referred to in subsection (1) with the improvements on it
must be entered in the assessment roll in the name of the holder or
occupier, whose interest must be valued at the actual value of the
land and improvements determined under this Part.




(3)

This section applies, with the necessary changes and so far as it is
applicable, to improvements owned by, leased to, held, or occupied by
some person other than the Crown, located on land the fee of which is
in the Crown, or in some person on behalf of the Crown.




(4)

This section applies, with the necessary changes and so far as it is
applicable, if land is held in trust for a tribe or band of Indians
and occupied, in other than an official capacity, by a person who is
not an Indian.




(5)

As soon as the assessor determines that




(a)

land is held or occupied, or




(b)

land ceases to be held or occupied


in the manner referred to in subsection (1), the assessor must make an
entry on a supplementary roll.




(6)

Subsection (5) does not apply in respect of land in a rural area.






Assessment of exempt land held by occupier




27

(1)


Land, the fee simple of which is held by or on behalf of a person who
is exempted from taxation under an Act, and which is held or occupied
otherwise than by or on behalf of that person, is, with its
improvements, to be assessed in accordance with this section.




(2)

The land and improvements referred to in subsection (1) must be
entered in the assessment roll in the name of the holder or occupier,
whose interest must be valued at the actual value of the land and
improvements determined under this Part.




(3)

This section applies to improvements owned by, leased to, held or
occupied otherwise than by, or on behalf of, a person exempted from
taxation by an Act, located on land the fee simple of which is held by
or on behalf of a person exempted from taxation by any Act.






Assessment of land the fee of which is in the municipality




28

(1)


Land, the fee of which is in the municipality, held or occupied
otherwise than by, or on behalf of, the municipality, is, with the
improvements on it, to be assessed in accordance with this section.




(2)

The land referred to in subsection (1) with the improvements on it
must be entered in the assessment roll in the name of the holder or
occupier, whose interest must be valued at the actual value of the
land and improvements determined under this Part.




(3)

This section applies, with the necessary changes and so far as it is
applicable, to improvements owned by, leased to, held, or occupied by
some person other than the municipality, located on land the fee of
which is in the municipality, or in some person on behalf of the
municipality.




(4)

This section does not apply to any land or improvements that were
exempted from taxation by the municipality under the terms of a lease
agreement entered into before July 1, 1957.






Joint interests




29


If land or improvements or both are held or occupied in the manner
referred to in section 26, 27 or 28 by 2 or more
persons and there is no paramount occupier, the land or improvements
or both must be assessed in the names of those persons jointly.






Assessment of an improvement on land under other ownership




30

(1)


Any structure, aqueduct, pipe line, tunnel, bridge, dam, reservoir,
road, storage tank, transformer, substation, pole lines, cables,
towers, poles, wires, transmission equipment or other improvement that
extends over, under or through land may be separately assessed to the
person owning, leasing, maintaining, operating or using it, even
though the land may be owned by some other person.




(2)

Each individual residential building located on a land cooperative or
multi dwelling leased parcel, as those terms are defined in the

Home Owner Grant Act

, must be separately assessed.




Part 4 — Property Assessment Review Panels





Appointment of property assessment review panels




31

(1)


The minister must appoint property assessment review panels, each
comprised of 3 members, to review and consider




(a)

the annual assessments of land and improvements in British Columbia,
and




(b)

in accordance with the

South Coast British Columbia Transportation Authority Act

, parking site rolls as that term is defined in section 131 of that
Act.




(2)

The minister must appoint and designate one member of each panel as
the chair of the panel, after a merit-based process, to hold office
for an initial term of 3 to 5 years.




(3)

The minister may appoint members of a panel, other than the chair,
after a merit-based process, to hold office for an initial term of 2
to 4 years.




(4)

A member may be reappointed by the minister as a member or chair of a
panel for additional terms of up to 5 years.




(5)

A member of a review panel must faithfully, honestly and impartially
perform the member's duties and must not, except in the proper
performance of those duties, disclose to any person any information
obtained as a member.




(6)

If a member is absent or incapacitated for an extended period of time
or expects to be absent for an extended period of time, the minister
may appoint another person, who would otherwise be qualified for
appointment as a member, to replace the member until the member
returns to full duty or the member's term expires, whichever comes
first.




(6.1)

The appointment of a person to replace a member under subsection (6)
is not affected by the member returning to less than full duty.




(7)

Sections 1, 4, 6 to 8, 10, 18, 40 (1) to (4), 44, 46.3, 48, 49, 55, 56
and 61 of the

Administrative Tribunals Act

apply to a review panel.






Complaints respecting completed assessment roll




32

(1)


Subject to the requirements in section 33, a person may make a
complaint against an individual entry in an assessment roll on any of
the following grounds:




(a)

there is an error or omission respecting the name of a person in the
assessment roll;




(b)

there is an error or omission respecting land or improvements, or both
land and improvements, in the assessment roll;




(c)

land or improvements, or both land and improvements, are not assessed
at actual value;




(d)

land or improvements, or both land and improvements, have been
improperly classified;




(e)

an exemption has been improperly allowed or disallowed.




(2)

Subject to the requirements in section 33, the Minister of Finance or
the assessment authority may make a complaint against all or any part
of the completed assessment roll, based on any of the grounds
specified in subsection (1) of this section.




(3)

Subject to the requirements in section 33, a local government may make
a complaint against all or any part of the completed assessment roll
relating to property in the municipality or regional district, as the
case may be, based on any of the grounds specified in
subsection (1) of this section.




(3.1)

Subject to the requirements in section 33, a taxing treaty first
nation may make a complaint against all or any part of the completed
assessment roll relating to its treaty lands, based on any of the
grounds specified in subsection (1) of this section.




(3.2)

Subject to the requirements in section 33, the Nisg̱a'a Nation may make
a complaint against all or any part of the completed assessment roll
relating to Nisg̱a'a Lands, based on any of the grounds specified in
subsection (1) of this section.




(4)

Subject to the requirements in section 33, an assessor may make a
complaint against all or any part of the assessment roll completed by
the assessor, based on any of the grounds specified in
subsection (1) of this section.




(5)

Without limiting subsections (2) to (4), complaints under those
subsections may be in respect of a class, category or type of property
or interest in land or improvements, or both land and improvements.






Notice of complaint




33

(1)


A person who wishes to make a complaint under section 32 must
file notice of the complaint with the assessor responsible for the
assessment that is the subject of the complaint.




(2)

The notice of complaint must be filed with the assessor no later than
January 31 of the year following the year in which the assessment roll
is completed under section 3 or changed or amended under
section 12, as the case may be.




(3)

The notice of complaint must




(a)

clearly identify the property in respect of which the complaint is
made,




(b)

include the full name of the complainant and a telephone number at
which the complainant may be contacted during regular business hours,




(c)

indicate whether or not the complainant is the owner of the property
to which the complaint relates,




(d)

if the complainant has an agent to act on the complainant's behalf in
respect of the complaint, include the full name of the agent and a
telephone number at which the agent may be contacted during regular
business hours,




(e)

include an address for delivery of any notices in respect of the
complaint,




(f)

state the grounds on which the complaint is based under section 32
(1), and




(g)

include any other prescribed information.






Assessor recommendations




34


Before March 16 of each year, an assessor must, for the purpose of
correcting an error or omission under section 10  that is
not corrected with the consent of the owner of the affected property,
recommend to a review panel changes to the assessment roll completed
by the assessor.






Notice of hearing




35

(1)


If a complaint is received under section 33 (1) and is not resolved
under section 10 (2), the assessor must




(a)

set a time for a hearing of the complaint by a review panel before
March 16,




(b)

deliver notice of the hearing to the complainant's address for
delivery, and




(c)

if the complainant is not the owner of the property in respect of
which the complaint is made, deliver notice of the hearing to each
owner of that property.




(2)

Despite subsection (1) (c), if the complaint is made under section 32
(2), (3), (3.1), (3.2) or (4), the requirement set out in
subsection (1) (c) of this section is satisfied by publication of
notice of the hearing in 2 current issues of a newspaper circulating
in the municipality, the treaty lands of the taxing treaty first
nation, Nisg̱a'a Lands or the other rural area, in which the property
that is the subject of the complaint is located.




(3)

An assessor is not required to deliver notice of the hearing to the
owner of a property affected by a recommendation for change under
section 34 if




(a)

[Repealed 2003-66-13.]




(b)

the recommendation




(i)

results in a decrease in the assessed value of the property,




(ii)

does not change the classification of the property, and




(iii)

does not result in the removal of an exemption.




(4) and (5)

[Repealed 2003-66-13.]




(6)

A notice under this section must include a statement that the
recipient may file written submissions instead of appearing at the
hearing.






Daily schedule




36

(1)


The daily schedule of matters for review and consideration by a review
panel, as set by the assessor, must be posted at the place where the
review panel is to meet.




(2)

The review panel must proceed to deal with complaints and assessor
recommendations in accordance with that schedule, unless the review
panel considers a change in the schedule necessary and desirable in
the circumstances.






Notice of withdrawal




37

(1)


A complainant may apply to withdraw a complaint made under
section 33 by filing with the assessor a notice of withdrawal.




(2)

The review panel may summarily dismiss the complaint referred to in
subsection (1) on consent of the assessor.




(3)

No appeal lies under section 50 (1) in respect of summary dismissal of
a complaint under subsection (2) of this section.






Duties and powers of review panels




38

(1)


A review panel may review and consider the assessment roll and the
individual entries made in it to ensure accuracy and that assessments
are at actual value applied in a consistent manner in the
municipality, treaty lands of the taxing treaty first
nation, Nisg̱a'a Lands or other rural area.




(2)

For the purpose of subsection (1), a review panel




(a)

may investigate the assessment roll and the individual entries made in
it, whether or not the investigation is based on a complaint or an
assessor recommendation,




(b)

must adjudicate the matters set for its consideration under
section 36,




(c)

when considering whether land or improvements are assessed at actual
value, must consider the total assessed value of the land and
improvements together, and




(d)

may direct amendments to be made to the assessment roll, subject to
the requirements of subsections (4) to (6).




(3)

Despite subsection (2) (b), the review panel may




(a)

refuse to adjudicate a matter set for its consideration if the notice
of complaint was not filed in accordance with section 33 (2), and




(b)

summarily dismiss a matter set for its consideration if a notice of
withdrawal is filed in accordance with section 37.




(4)

A review panel must before March 16 complete




(a)

any investigation referred to in subsection (2) (a), and




(b)

adjudication of the matters set for its consideration under section
36.




(5)

If the review panel intends to direct that an amendment be made that
is not based on a complaint or on an assessor recommendation and the
amendment would




(a)

increase the assessed value of the property,




(b)

change the classification of the property, or




(c)

result in the removal of an exemption,


the review panel must order the assessor to set a hearing in respect
of the proposed amendment, giving the owner of the affected property
an opportunity to make submissions.




(6)

For the purposes of subsection (5), the assessor must, at least 5 days
before the hearing, deliver to the owner of the affected property a
notice of the hearing and the notice must include




(a)

particulars of the proposed amendment, and




(b)

a statement that the owner may file written submissions instead of
appearing at the hearing.




(7)

The chair of the review panel may




(a)

determine the procedures to be followed at proceedings of the review
panel,




(b)

administer an oath or solemn affirmation to a person or witness before
the person's or witness's evidence is taken, and




(c)

for the purposes of section 36 (2), but subject to the requirement of
subsection (4), adjourn the hearings from day to day or from time
to time and from place to place within the geographic area of the
review panel's jurisdiction.




(8)

The chair of the review panel must make a record of a summary
dismissal under section 37, a refusal to adjudicate a matter
under section 38 (3) (a) and any decision made in relation to an
investigation, adjudication or direction by the review panel.




(9)

The chair of the review panel must provide the assessor with
information necessary to




(a)

amend the assessment roll in accordance with a decision referred to in
subsection (8), and




(b)

provide sufficient notice under section 41 (1).






Power to compel witnesses and order disclosure




39

(1)


At any time before or during a hearing, but before its decision, a
review panel may make an order requiring a person




(a)

to attend an oral or electronic hearing to give evidence on oath or
affirmation or in any other manner that is admissible and relevant to
an issue in an application, or




(b)

to produce for the review panel or a party a document or other thing
in the person's possession or control, as specified by the review
panel, that is admissible and relevant to an issue in an application.




(2)

A review panel may apply to the court for an order




(a)

directing a person to comply with an order made by the review panel
under subsection (1), or




(b)

directing any directors and officers of a person to cause the person
to comply with an order made by the review panel under subsection (1).






Burden of proof




40


In a hearing before the review panel, the burden of proof is




(a)

on the complainant, or




(b)

if the matter concerns an assessor recommendation under
section 34, on the assessor.






Notice of decisions and corrections




41

(1)


Before April 7 following the sitting of the review panel, the assessor
must deliver notice of the decision made by the review panel, or of
its refusal to adjudicate the complaint made, to




(a)

the owner of the property to which the decision relates, and




(b)

the complainant, if the complainant is not the owner.




(1.1)

Before April 7, the assessor must deliver notice of the amendment made
by the assessor under section 10 (2) to




(a)

the owner of the property to which the amendment relates, and




(b)

the complainant, if the amendment resolved a complaint and the
complainant is not the owner.




(2)

Notice under subsection (1) or (1.1) must include




(a)

a statement that the decision or amendment may be appealed to the
board in accordance with section 50, and




(b)

information on the procedures to be followed for initiating the
appeal.






Amendment of assessment roll




42

(1)


The assessor must ensure that all amendments are made to the
assessment roll in accordance with the directions of the review panel
under section 38 (2) (d).




(2)

[Repealed 2003-66-16.]




Part 5 — Property Assessment Appeal Board





Property assessment appeal board




43

(1)


The property assessment appeal board is continued consisting of at
least 6 members appointed after a merit-based process as follows:




(a)

one member appointed and designated by the Lieutenant Governor in
Council as the chair;




(b)

one or more members appointed and designated by the Lieutenant
Governor in Council as vice chairs after consultation with the chair;




(c)

other members appointed by the Lieutenant Governor in Council after
consultation with the chair.




(2)

The board has jurisdiction to determine




(a)

appeals brought under section 50,




(b)

appeals from the rates prescribed by the assessment authority under
section 21,




(c)

complaints referred to the board for its determination under the
regulations, and




(d)

appeals brought under section 23 of the

Forest Land Reserve Act

.




(3)

[Repealed 2015-10-41.]




(4)

The chair is the chief executive officer of the board.




(5) to (7)

[Repealed 2003-47-15.]




(8)

A member of the board must faithfully, honestly and impartially
perform the member's duties and must not, except in the proper
performance of those duties, disclose to any person any information
obtained as a member.






Application of
Administrative Tribunals Act




43.1


The following provisions of the

Administrative Tribunals Act

apply to the property assessment appeal board:




(a)

Part 1
[Interpretation and Application]
;




(a.1)

Part 2
[Appointments]
;




(b)

Part 3
[Clustering]
;




(b.1)

section 11

[general power to make rules respecting practice and procedure]

;




(c)

section 13
[practice directives tribunal may make]
;




(c.1)

section 14
[general power to make orders]
;




(d)

section 15
[interim orders]
;




(d.1)

section 16
[consent orders]
;




(e)

section 17 (2)
[order of tribunal may include terms of settlement]
;




(e.1)

section 18
[failure of party to comply with tribunal orders and rules]
;




(f)

section 19
[service of notice or documents]
;




(f.1)

section 20
[when failure to serve does not invalidate proceeding]
;




(g)

section 28
[facilitated settlement]
;




(g.1)

section 29
[disclosure protection]
;




(h)

section 31 (1) (a), (b) and (e)
[summary dismissal]
;




(i)

section 32
[representation of parties to an application]
;




(j)

section 33
[interveners]
;




(k)

section 34 (3) and (4)
[tribunal may compel witnesses and order disclosure]
;




(l)

section 35
[recording tribunal proceedings]
;




(m)

section 37
[applications involving similar questions]
;




(n)

section 38
[examination of witnesses]
;




(o)

section 39
[adjournments]
;




(p)

section 40
[information admissible in tribunal proceedings]
;




(q)

section 44

[tribunal without jurisdiction over constitutional questions]

;




(r)

section 46.3

[tribunal without jurisdiction to apply the Human Rights Code]

;




(s)

section 48
[maintenance of order at hearings]
;




(t)

section 49

[contempt proceeding for uncooperative witness or other person]

;




(u)

Part 7
[Decisions]
, except sections 50 (1) and 52
[notice of decision]
;




(v)

Part 8
[Immunities]
;




(w)

section 59.1
[surveys]
;




(x)

section 59.2
[reporting]
;




(y)

section 60 (1) (a), (b) and (g) to (i) and (2)
[power to make regulations]
;




(z)

section 61

[application of Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy
Act]

.






Organization of the board




44

(1)


The chair of the board may organize the board into panels, each
comprised of one or more members.




(2)

If the chair organizes a panel comprised of more than one member, the
chair must designate one of those members as chair of the panel.




(3)

The members of the board may sit




(a)

as a board, or




(b)

as a panel of the board,


and 2 or more panels may sit at the same time.




(4)

If members of the board sit as a panel,




(a)

the panel has the jurisdiction of, and may exercise and perform the
powers and duties of, the board, and




(b)

an order, decision or action of the panel is an order, decision or
action of the board.




(5)

The decision of a majority of the members of a panel of the board is a
decision of the board and, in the case of a tie, the decision of the
chair of the panel governs.




(6)

If a member of a panel is unable for any reason to complete the
member's duties, the remaining members of that panel may, with consent
of the chair of the board, continue to hear and determine the matter,
and the vacancy does not invalidate the proceeding.




(7)

[Repealed 2003-47-16.]




(8)

If the panel is a single member and that member is unable for any
reason to complete the member's duties, with the consent of all
parties to the application the chair of the board may organize a new
panel to continue to hear and determine the matter on terms agreed to
by the parties, and the vacancy does not invalidate the proceeding.






Staff of the board




45

(1)


The chair of the board may appoint, in accordance with the

Public Service Act

, employees necessary to enable the board to perform its duties.




(2)

For the purpose of the application of the

Public Service Act

to subsection (1) of this section, the chair is deemed to be a deputy
minister.




(3)

The chair of the board may retain consultants, investigators, expert
witnesses or other persons as may be necessary for the board to
discharge its functions under this Act and may establish their
remuneration and other terms and conditions of their retainers.




(4)

The

Public Service Act

does not apply to a person retained under subsection (3) of this
section.






General board powers




46

(1)


[Repealed 2004-45-72.]




(2)

Members of the board may, in the performance of their duties,




(a)

enter on and inspect any land or improvement,




(b)

require the production of any record, and




(c)

administer oaths, solemn affirmations or declarations.




(3)

The chair may in writing delegate the powers of the board under
subsection (2) (a) and (b) to a person designated by the chair.




(4)

The board may at any time require the assessment authority to provide
any information or record, obtained or created under this Act, that is
in the custody or control of the assessment authority, including,
without limitation, a revised assessment roll and any information
respecting an assessment dealt with by a review panel.




(5)

Despite section 69 (1), the information or record referred to in
subsection (4) of this section must be provided to the board free of
charge and in the form and manner required by the board.






Repealed




47


[Repealed 2004-45-72.]






Board records




48


A record purporting to be a record of an order or decision of the
board is admissible in all courts of British Columbia, without proof
of appointment, authority or signature and is evidence of the record.






Report




49

(1)


In accordance with a regulation made under section 74 (2) (g) (iv),
the board must annually and at other times it considers appropriate,
report to the minister on its activities under this Act.




(2)

The minister must promptly lay the board's annual report before the
Legislative Assembly if it is in session and, if the Legislative
Assembly is not in session when the report is submitted, within
15 days after the beginning of the next session.




Part 6 — Appeals to the Board from Review Panel Decisions





Definition




49.1


In this Part, except in section 57,
"appeal under this Part"
includes an application for leave to appeal under section 50 (1.1).






Appeals to board




50

(1)


Subject to the requirements of subsections (2) to (4), a person may
appeal to the board if the person is dissatisfied




(a)

with a decision of a review panel,




(b)

with an omission or refusal of the review panel to adjudicate a
complaint made under section 33 (1), or




(c)

with an amendment to the assessment roll under section 10 (2).




(1.1)

Subject to the requirements of subsections (2) to (4.2), an owner may,
with leave of the board, appeal to the board if the owner failed to
file a notice of complaint in respect of the owner's property within
the time required under section 33 (2).




(2)

The appeal must be based on one or more of the grounds referred to in
section 32 (1).




(3)

A notice of appeal under this section and the prescribed appeal fee
must be filed with the board on or before April 30 following the
sitting of the review panel.




(4)

The notice of appeal must




(a)

clearly identify the property in respect of which the appeal is made,




(b)

include the full name of the appellant and a telephone number at which
the appellant may be contacted during regular business hours,




(c)

indicate whether or not the appellant is the owner of the property to
which the appeal relates,




(d)

if the appellant has an agent to act on the appellant's behalf in
respect of the appeal, include the full name of the agent and a
telephone number at which the agent may be contacted during regular
business hours,




(e)

include an address for delivery of any notices in respect of the
appeal,




(f)

state the grounds on which the appeal is based, and




(g)

include any other prescribed information.




(4.1)

In addition to the requirements under subsection (4), a notice of
appeal for an appeal under subsection (1.1) must state the reasons why
leave should be granted under subsection (4.3).




(4.2)

All evidence on which the owner relies in support of the reasons why
leave should be granted must be filed with the notice of appeal.




(4.3)

The board may grant leave to appeal under subsection (1.1) if the
board is satisfied that the owner's failure to file a notice of
complaint within the time required under section 33 (2) was
due to circumstances beyond the owner's control.




(5)

If a notice of appeal is deficient or if the prescribed appeal fee is
outstanding, the chair of the board may in the chair's discretion
allow a reasonable period of time within which the notice may be
perfected or the fee is to be paid.






Copies of appeal to persons




51


If the board receives a notice of appeal in accordance with
section 50, the board must promptly provide a copy of the notice
to each of the following who is not the appellant:




(a)

the owner of the property;




(b)

the assessor;




(c)

if the property is located in a municipality, a regional district or
the treaty lands of a taxing treaty first nation, the municipality,
regional district or taxing treaty first nation, as applicable;




(c.1)

if the property is located in Nisg̱a'a Lands, the Nisg̱a'a Nation;




(d)

the chief executive officer of the assessment authority;




(e)

the complainant before the review panel, if that person is not a
person specified in paragraphs (a) to (d).






Parties to an appeal




52

(1)


The following persons are parties to an appeal under this Part:




(a)

the appellant;




(b)

the owner of the property, if not the appellant;




(c)

the complainant at the review panel, if not the owner or appellant;




(d)

the assessor.




(2)

The board may direct that any other person who may be affected by the
appeal may be added as a party to the appeal, including, without
limitation,




(a)

a local government or taxing treaty first nation in respect of which
the property is located,




(a.1)

if the property is located in Nisg̱a'a Lands, the Nisg̱a'a Nation, or




(b)

the government.




(3) and (4)

[Repealed 2004-45-72.]






Repealed




53-54


[Repealed 2004-45-72.]






Means of hearing appeals and notice of hearings




55

(1)


In a proceeding, the board may hold any combination of written,
electronic and oral hearings.




(2)

The chair of the board must give notice of a hearing under subsection
(1) to all parties and intervenors.






Repealed




56


[Repealed 2004-45-74.]






Powers and duties of board in an appeal




57

(1)


In an appeal under this Part, the board




(a)

may reopen the whole question of the property's assessment to ensure
accuracy and that assessments are at actual value applied in a
consistent manner in the municipality, treaty lands of the taxing
treaty first nation, Nisg̱a'a Lands or other rural area, and




(b)

when considering whether land or improvements are assessed at actual
value, must consider the total assessed value of the land and
improvements together.




(2)

Nothing in subsection (1) (a) empowers the board to determine an
assessment of a property other than the property that is the subject
of the appeal, except to the extent permitted under subsection (3).




(3)

If the property referred to in subsection (1) includes a building or
other improvement that extends over one or more contiguous parcels of
land that actually abut that property but the other parcels were not
originally the subject of the appeal, the board may, if the board
considers it necessary to accurately determine the assessment of the
property referred to in subsection (1), include those parcels in its
determinations.




(4)

The board may order the assessment authority to reassess at actual
value land and improvements in all or part of a municipality, the
treaty lands of a taxing treaty first nation, Nisg̱a'a Lands or other
rural area, whether or not they are the subject of the appeal, if the
board finds




(a)

that the assessments in the municipality, treaty lands, Nisg̱a'a Lands
or other rural area, or in part of any of them, are above their actual
value, or




(b)

that the assessment appealed against is at actual value but that the
assessments of similar land and improvements in the municipality,
treaty lands, Nisg̱a'a Lands or other rural area, or in part of any of
them, are below their actual value.




(5)

Despite section 12 (6), the assessor must enter any reassessments
ordered under subsection (4) of this section on a supplementary
assessment roll.






Repealed




58


[Repealed 2004-45-74.]






Order for compliance




59

(1)


The board or a party to an appeal under this Part may apply to the
Supreme Court for an order




(a)

directing a person to comply with an order or decision of the board
under this Part, and




(b)

directing any directors and officers of the person to cause the person
to comply with an order or decision of the board under this Part.




(2)

Subsection (1) is in addition to and not instead of any other remedy
or course of action that may be available to the board or a party
under this Act or otherwise available by law.






Costs




60

(1)


Subject to the regulations, the board may order that a party to an
appeal under this Part or an intervenor pay another party or
intervenor or the board any or all of the actual costs in respect of
the appeal.




(2)

An order under subsection (1) has, after filing in the court registry,
the same effect as an order of the Supreme Court for the recovery of a
debt in the amount stated in the order against the person named in it,
and all proceedings may be taken as if it were an order of the court.






Decision of board




61

(1)


The board must issue a decision at the earliest opportunity after
hearing an appeal under this Part.




(2)

[Repealed 2004-45-74.]






Notice of board decision




62

(1)


The board must deliver a notice of its decision on an appeal under
this Part to




(a)

the parties to the appeal and any intervenors, and




(b)

the chief executive officer of the assessment authority.




(2)

Notice under subsection (1) must include




(a)

the board's decision,




(b)

a statement that the decision may be appealed to the Supreme Court on
a question of law, and




(c)

information on the procedures to be followed for such an appeal.






Amending the roll to reflect board decisions




63

(1)


On receipt of notice of the board's decision under section 62,
the assessor must




(a)

ensure that all amendments ordered to be made in the assessment roll
by the board are made promptly, and




(b)

ensure that a copy of the notice is available for public inspection
during regular business hours.




(2)

If there is a conflict between the revised assessment roll and an
amendment made under this section, the amendment prevails.




Part 7 — References and Stated Cases on Appeal





Reference on question of law to Supreme Court




64

(1)


At any stage of a proceeding before it, the board, on its own
initiative or at the request of one or more of the persons affected by
the appeal, may refer a question of law in the proceeding to the
Supreme Court in the form of a stated case.




(1.1)

If the question of law that is referred under subsection (1) is a
constitutional question, the party who raises the question must give
notice in compliance with section 8 of the

Constitutional Question Act

.




(2)

The stated case must be in writing and filed with the court registry,
and must include a statement of the facts and all evidence material to
the stated case.




(3)

The board must




(a)

suspend the proceeding as it relates to the stated case and reserve
its decision until the opinion of the Supreme Court has been given,
and




(b)

decide the appeal in accordance with the opinion.




(4)

The stated case must be brought on for hearing within one month from
the date on which it is filed under subsection (2).




(5)

Subject to subsection (6), the court must hear and determine the
stated case and within 2 months give its decision.




(6)

The court may send the stated case back to the board for amendment and
the board must promptly amend and return the stated case for the
opinion of the court.






Appeal of board decision on question of law




65

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), a person affected by a decision of the
board on appeal, including a local government, a taxing treaty first
nation, the government, the Nisg̱a'a Nation or the assessment
authority, may require the board to refer the decision to the Supreme
Court for appeal on a question of law alone in the form of a stated
case.




(2)

Within 21 days after receiving the decision referred to in subsection
(1), the person must deliver to the board a written request to refer
the decision to the Supreme Court, and include in the request the
question of law to be referred.




(3)

On receipt of the request under subsection (2), the board must
promptly provide written notice of the request to




(a)

the parties to the appeal from which the reference is requested and
any intervenors, and




(b)

the chief executive officer of the assessment authority.




(4)

Within 21 days after receiving the request under subsection (2), the
board must file the stated case with the court registry, including the
decision on appeal, a statement of the facts and all evidence material
to the stated case.




(5)

The stated case must be brought on for hearing within one month from
the date on which it is filed under subsection (4).




(6)

Subject to subsection (7), the court must hear and determine the
stated case and within 2 months give its decision.




(7)

The court may send the stated case back to the board for amendment and
the board must promptly amend and return the stated case for the
opinion of the court.




(8)

The costs of, and incidental to, a stated case under this section are
at the discretion of the court.




(9)

An appeal on a question of law lies from a decision of the Supreme
Court to the Court of Appeal with leave of a justice of the Court of
Appeal.




(10)

The board must direct the assessor to make any amendment to the
assessment roll necessary to give effect to a decision made by the
Supreme Court or the Court of Appeal under this section.




Part 8 — General





Authorization for electronic transmission of notices




65.1

(1)


A person may,




(a)

if the assessment authority provides for electronic transmission,
authorize, in writing, the assessment authority to electronically
transmit a notice under this Act to the person, and




(b)

at any time, in writing, withdraw the authorization provided under
paragraph (a).




(2)

If a person provides an authorization under subsection (1) (a),
the person must provide to the assessment authority an email address
for the purposes of electronic transmission.






Assessment authority to provide information to the government




66

(1)


The assessment authority must provide assessment information to the
government for purposes of determining tax liability or collecting a
tax under the

Speculation and Vacancy Tax Act

, the

Police Act

, the

School Act

and the

Taxation (Rural Area) Act

, as follows:




(a)

before February 1 in each year, information from or respecting the
completed assessment roll on December 31 of the previous year;




(b)

before March 26 in each year, information from or respecting the
assessment roll as amended by the review panels in that year;




(c)

when it becomes available, information from or respecting an
assessment roll as it is amended or changed under section 10, 12,
42, 63 or 65 (10).




(1.1)

On request of the government, the assessment authority must provide
assessment inventory and valuation information to the government for
purposes of determining a school tax refund under section 131.1 of the

School Act

.




(2)

Despite section 69 (1), information under subsection (1) or (1.1) of
this section must be provided to the government free of charge and in
the form and manner required by the Minister of Finance.




(3)

Before April 15 in each year, the assessment authority must provide
free of charge to regional hospital district boards information
setting out the current year net taxable value of all land and
improvements in each member municipality, the treaty lands of each
taxing treaty first nation and the other rural area, in the district,
on both the completed and the revised assessment rolls, for the
purpose of requisitioning and raising funds under the

Hospital District Act

.




(4)

In the case of the North West Regional Hospital District, in addition
to the information provided under subsection (3), the assessment
authority must provide free of charge the net taxable value of all
land and improvements in Nisg̱a'a Lands.






Open hearings




67


Except for an order that may be made in relation to a prehearing
conference, a hearing under this Act must be open to the public.






Protection of privacy in assessment roll and records




68

(1)


On application by an owner, the assessment authority may omit or
obscure the owner's name, address or other information about the owner
that would ordinarily be included in an assessment roll if, in the
opinion of the assessment authority, the inclusion of the name,
address or other information could reasonably be expected to threaten
the safety or mental or physical health of the owner or a member of
the owner's household.




(2)

Names of individuals must be deleted from




(a)

an assessment roll other than an assessment roll that is




(i)

supplied under subsection (4),




(ii)

available for public inspection under section 8, or




(iii)

accessible through the B.C. OnLine information service or through
another electronic information service used by the assessment
authority, and




(b)

other prescribed records that are obtained or created under this Act.




(3)

For the purpose of tracing unauthorized use of information, the
assessment authority may have fictitious or false entries or
information included in an assessment roll or other record related to
an assessor's valuations under Part 2 or 3, that is
available for public inspection under this Act or may otherwise be
disclosed in accordance with a regulation under
section 16 (6).




(4)

Subsections (1) and (3) do not apply to an assessment roll or record
that is supplied




(a)

to a person or for a purpose specified in section 33 of the

Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act

,




(b)

to any of the following:




(i)

the government;




(ii)

a municipality, regional district or taxing treaty first nation;




(ii.1)

the Nisg̱a'a Nation;




(iii)

a prescribed entity with taxing authority under an enactment of
British Columbia or Canada, or




(c)

to the board.






Use of and access to information in records




69

(1)


Subject to the requirements of this section and section 68 and
any prescribed limits on the fees that may be charged, if this Act, or
a regulation under this Act, requires or authorizes the disclosure or
public inspection or other use of or access to a record, including an
assessment roll, a person may obtain a copy of the record or
assessment roll on payment of any fee that may be set for the copy by
the assessment authority or by the chair of the board, as the case may
be.




(2)

A person must not, directly or indirectly, use the assessment roll or
information contained in the assessment roll or a record referred to
in subsection (1) as follows:




(a)

to obtain names, addresses or telephone numbers for solicitation
purposes, whether the solicitations are made by telephone, mail or any
other means;




(b)

to harass an individual;




(c)

for other uses or purposes specified by regulation.




(3)

A person who wishes to inspect or obtain a copy of a record referred
to in subsection (1) may be required to complete a declaration in
the prescribed form




(a)

specifying the purpose for which the information is to be used, and




(b)

certifying that the information contained in the record will not be
used in a manner prohibited under subsection (2).




(4)

A person who contravenes subsection (2) commits an offence.






Offences in relation to false or misleading information




70

(1)


A person who does any of the following commits an offence:




(a)

provides false or misleading information when required under this Act
to provide information;




(b)

makes a false or misleading statement or declaration when required
under this Act to make a statement or declaration.




(2)

A person is not guilty of an offence under this section if the person
establishes that, at the time the information was given or the
statement or declaration was made, the person did not know that it was
false or misleading and exercised reasonable care and diligence in
providing the information or making the statement or declaration.






Fines and penalties for offences




71

(1)


A person who commits an offence under section 15 (3), 69 (4) or 70 (1)
is liable on conviction to a fine of not more than $10 000 or
imprisonment for a term not longer than 2 years, or both.




(2)

If a person is convicted of an offence under section 69 (4) or 70 (1)
and the court is satisfied that, as a result of the commission of the
offence, the person acquired any monetary benefits or that monetary
benefits accrued to the person, the court may order the person to pay
a fine equal to the court's estimation of the amount of those monetary
benefits.




(3)

A fine under subsection (2) is in addition to and not in place of the
fine or punishment that may be imposed under subsection (1) and is not
limited to the maximum fine prescribed under subsection (1).






Offences and penalties




72


Section 5 of the

Offence Act

does not apply to this Act or the regulations.






Act prevails




73


If there is a conflict between this Act and any other Act, this Act
prevails.






Power to make regulations and bylaws




74

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
section 41 of the

Interpretation Act

.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations as follows:




(a)

defining any expression used and not defined in this Act;




(b)

prescribing capacity for the purposes of section 1 (2) (l) and
different capacities may be prescribed for different categories or
types of vessels referred to in that section;




(c)

exempting classes of interest in land or improvements, or both, from
assessment under section 26, 27, 28 or 29;




(d)

excluding from the definition of "improvements" any category or type
of thing included in that definition by section 1 (2);




(e)

prescribing criteria for determining the land that is considered for
the purposes of section 21 to be right of way for the track in
place of a railway corporation;




(f)

prescribing criteria to be applied by the assessment authority in
prescribing rates under section 21 (1) (d) and (e), including
different criteria for different categories of right of way;




(g)

respecting




(i)

forms and returns required by the assessment authority or by the
board,




(ii)

the format and manner in which assessment rolls under section 8
must be presented,




(iii)

any other form or notice referred to in this Act, and




(iv)

the form, content and filing of reports by the board to the minister
under section 49;




(h)

requiring railway corporations, tramway corporations, pipe line
corporations, closed circuit television corporations and corporations
engaged in the supply, transmission or distribution of gas, water,
electricity, telephone services or telegraph services to supply to the
assessment authority, by prescribed dates, information respecting the
property of the corporation and its operational and other costs
required by the assessment authority to determine the actual value of
the property;




(h.1)

requiring persons to supply to the assessment authority, by prescribed
dates, information respecting the designated ski hill property owned,
held or occupied by the person and revenue relating to the property
required by the assessment authority to determine the actual value of
the property;




(i)

extending the time within which any of the provisions of this Act must
be performed, carried out or completed;




(j)

[Repealed 1999-11-15.]




(k)

prescribing the circumstances and the manner in which the board may
award costs under section 60;




(l)

prescribing information that must be included in a notice of complaint
under section 33 (3) or a notice of appeal under section 50 (4);




(m)

prescribing records for the purposes of section 68 (2) (b);




(n)

prescribing an entity for the purposes of section 68 (4) (b) (iii);




(o)

specifying uses or purposes for which information contained in an
assessment roll or record referred to in section 69 (1) must not be
used;




(p)

respecting witness fees and authorizing fees to be payable to the
board for any services provided by the board or its staff in relation
to an appeal or to a stated case under Part 7;




(q)

prescribing fees payable by persons for appeals and complaints to the
board, and different fees may be prescribed for different types of
appeals and the fees prescribed may be different for




(i)

different property classes,




(ii)

different assessed values of property, and




(iii)

different appeals by the same appellant respecting assessments
recorded on the same assessment roll;




(r)

providing for classes of complaints under section 32 to be
referred to, heard and determined directly by the board instead of a
review panel, and the classes may be based on value of property,
property class, geographic location or any other matter that the
minister considers necessary or advisable;




(s)

governing the rules, practice and procedures for making, hearing and
determining complaints referred to in paragraph (r), including,
without limitation, making all or any part of Part 4 or
Part 6 applicable with any modifications the minister considers
necessary or advisable;




(t)

respecting orders that may be made by the board in its proceedings;




(u)

prescribing rules of practice and procedure for appeals to the board,
complaints to the board under the regulations or any part of
proceedings conducted by the board;




(v)

for the purposes of section 69 (1), limiting fees payable by the
government or by different classes of persons, for different classes
of records or for different uses of the records, including, without
limitation, prescribing the circumstances in which no fees are
payable.




(3)

For purposes of any regulation made under subsection (2) (h), the
information referred to in subsection (2) (h) must be segregated, in a
manner specified by the assessment authority, according to the
location of the property of the corporations.




(3.1)

For purposes of any regulation made under subsection (2) (h.1), the
information referred to in subsection (2) (h.1) must be segregated, in
the manner specified by the assessment authority, according to the
location of the property of the person.




(4)

For the purposes of this Act, the assessment authority may make
bylaws, not inconsistent with this Act or the regulations, that it
considers necessary or advisable.




(5)

If an order or regulation affecting classification, valuation or
exemption on the assessment roll is made in any year, under this Act
or another Act, on or before the date set by section 3 of this
Act for completing the assessment roll in that year, or any later date
established by a regulation under subsection (2) (i) of this
section, the order or regulation applies for the purposes of
assessment and taxation




(a)

in the taxation year following the year in which the order or
regulation is made, and




(b)

subject to the order or regulation being amended or repealed, in any
subsequent taxation year.




