




BC Hydro Public Power Legacy and Heritage Contract Act
[SBC 2003] CHAPTER 86


Assented to November 20, 2003






Definitions




1


In this Act:


"authority"
has the same meaning as in the

Hydro and Power Authority Act

;


"commission"
has the same meaning as in the

Utilities Commission Act

;


"reference"
means the request for recommendations made under Order in
CouncilÂ 253/2003;


"service"
has the same meaning as in the

Utilities Commission Act

.






Repealed




2


[Repealed 2010-22-41.]






Heritage contract




3


Without limiting any other obligation of the commission or the
authority,




(a)

the commission must, when setting rates of the authority, comply with
any regulations, including, without limitation, any general or special
directions, made by the Lieutenant Governor in Council under this Act,
and




(b)

the authority must provide the service required by the regulations
made under this Act, in accordance with




(i)

the terms and conditions specified in those regulations, and




(ii)

the rates set by the commission in accordance with the regulations.






Power to make regulations




4

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
section 41 of the

Interpretation Act

.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1) of this section, section 3 of the

Utilities Commission Act

or section 35 of the

Hydro and Power Authority Act

, the Lieutenant Governor in Council may make any regulations the
Lieutenant Governor in Council considers necessary or advisable to
respond to the recommendations made by the commission in response to
the reference, including, without limitation, any of the following
regulations:




(a)

to amend any regulation made under any of the

Utilities Commission Act

and the

Hydro and Power Authority Act

;




(b)

to issue directions to the commission specifying the factors, criteria
and guidelines that the commission must or must not use in regulating
and setting rates for the authority that are applicable to the service
referred to in section 3 (b) of this Act.






Repeal




5


The

Hydro and Power Authority Privatization Act

is repealed.






Transitional




6

(1)


Despite section 24 (3) of the

Hydro and Power Authority Privatization Act

, as it read before the coming into force of this Act, any designation
under which Terasen Inc. or Terasen Gas Inc. or any of their
respective predecessors is or became a special company under Part 2 of
the

Hydro and Power Authority Privatization Act

is revoked.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), none of the provisions of Part 2 of
the

Hydro and Power Authority Privatization Act

as it read before the coming into force of this Act apply to Terasen
Inc. or to Terasen Gas Inc.




Schedule

[Schedule repealed 2010-22-43.]


