




Business Number Act
[SBC 2003] CHAPTER 50


Assented to October 23, 2003






Definitions




1


In this Act:



"business entity"

means a person or organization, whether or not incorporated, that
provides information to a public body in respect of a business or
non-profit undertaking carried on or to be carried on by the person or
organization;



"business information"

means the following information about a business entity:




(a)

the name of the entity and any operating or business names used by it;




(b)

the legal structure of the entity;




(c)

the mailing and delivery address of the entity;




(d)

if the entity is a corporation,




(i)

the date of its incorporation,




(ii)

the jurisdiction under whose laws it is incorporated and its
incorporation number in that jurisdiction,




(iii)

its registration number in British Columbia if it is incorporated in a
jurisdiction other than British Columbia, and




(iv)

the names of its directors;




(e)

if the entity is an unincorporated organization other than a
partnership, the name of at least one individual who alone or together
with others is responsible for the management of the business or
affairs of the organization;




(f)

any other prescribed information;



"designated enactment"

means




(a)

except in section 2, section 10.1, or




(b)

an enactment or a portion of an enactment designated by regulation;



"public body"

means, except in section 10.1, a body that has entered into an
agreement or arrangement with the minister under section 4.






Relationship of Act to designated enactments




2


If a provision of this Act is inconsistent or in conflict with a
provision of a designated enactment, the provision of this Act
prevails unless the regulations or the designated enactment expressly
provide that the designated enactment, or a provision of it, applies
despite this Act.






System of business numbers




3

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may, by regulation, establish or
adopt a system of business numbers for identifying business entities.




(2)

The minister may enter into an agreement with the government of Canada
or an agent of the government of Canada for the purpose of




(a)

establishing or adopting a system of business numbers under subsection
(1), and




(b)

integrating or coordinating the system established or adopted with any
system of business numbers established by the government of Canada or
an agent of the government of Canada.






Public body agreements




4


The minister may enter into an agreement or arrangement with one or
more of the following bodies respecting the use by the body of the
system of business numbers established or adopted under section 3:




(a)

a ministry of the government of British Columbia or an agent of the
government;




(b)

a government corporation, as defined in the

Financial Administration Act

;




(c)

a municipality or regional district;




(d)

a board, commission, association or other body designated by
regulation.






Collection of business information — form and manner




5


If a business entity




(a)

provides a public body with information under a designated enactment,
or




(b)

supplies or intends to supply goods or services to a public body,


the public body may require the business entity to provide business
information to the public body in the form and manner required by that
public body.






Disclosure of business information




6

(1)


If a public body receives business information from a business entity,
the public body, for the purposes of this Act,




(a)

must disclose the information to the minister, and




(b)

may disclose the information to the government of Canada or an agent
of the government of Canada.




(2)

If a public body has possession of business information about a
business entity that was created by the public body or was received
from the business entity under a designated enactment before the
enactment was designated,




(a)

the public body may use the information in its possession for the
purposes of this Act, and




(b)

subsection (1) applies to the public body in respect of that
information.






Use of business number




7


When a business entity




(a)

provides a public body with information under a designated enactment,
or




(b)

supplies or intends to supply goods or services to a public body,


the public body may require the business entity to provide its
business number.






Information system




8

(1)


The minister may establish and manage an information system for the
purpose of




(a)

receiving and storing business information disclosed to the minister
under section 6,




(b)

integrating and updating business information in respect of business
entities, and




(c)

disclosing business information in the system in accordance with this
Act.




(2)

The minister may disclose business information that is stored in the
information system to




(a)

a public body, in accordance with the agreement or arrangement under
section 4, for the purpose of




(i)

correcting or updating the information in the information system or in
the possession of the public body, or




(ii)

administering or enforcing a designated enactment, or




(b)

the government of Canada or an agent of the government of Canada, in
accordance with an agreement under section 3.






Fees




9


The minister may require a public body to pay the minister a
prescribed fee.






Delegation




10


The minister may delegate to any person any of the minister's powers,
duties or functions under this Act except the power to enter into an
agreement or an arrangement under section 3 (2) or 4.






Collection of business information — electronic identifier




10.1


If a business entity applies to the minister for an electronic
identifier to be used to access services provided by a public body, as
defined in the

Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act

, the minister may require the business entity to provide business
information to the minister for the purpose of authenticating the
identity of that business entity.






Application of
Offence Act




11

(1)


Section 5 of the

Offence Act

does not apply to this Act or the regulations.




(2)

A person who supplies false or misleading business information to a
public body commits an offence and is liable




(a)

in the case of a corporation, to a fine of not more than $5 000,
and




(b)

in the case of an individual, to a fine of not more than $2 000.




(3)

A person does not commit an offence under subsection (2) if, at the
time the information was supplied, the person did not know that it was
false or misleading and, with the exercise of reasonable diligence,
could not have known that it was false or misleading.






Power to make regulations




12

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
section 41 of the

Interpretation Act

.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations as follows:




(a)

prescribing information for the purposes of the definition of
"business information";




(b)

designating enactments or portions of enactments for the purposes of
this Act;




(c)

prescribing designated enactments, or provisions of them, that apply
despite this Act;




(d)

designating boards, commissions, associations or other bodies as
public bodies;




(e)

prescribing fees payable to the minister.




(3)

In making regulations under this Act, the Lieutenant Governor in
Council may




(a)

establish different classes of public bodies, business entities or
designated enactments, and




(b)

make different regulations for different public bodies, business
entities or designated enactments or for different classes of public
bodies, business entities or designated enactments.




Consequential Amendments









[Note: See Table of Legislative Changes for the status of sections
13 to 16.]









Section(s)





Affected Act






13




Business Corporations Act





14




Company Act





15




Partnership Act





16



Amendment to this Act








Commencement




17


This Act comes into force by regulation of the Lieutenant Governor in
Council.




