




Correction Act
[SBC 2004] CHAPTER 46


Assented to May 20, 2004






Definitions




1


In this Act:



"authorized person"

means the person in charge of the correctional centre and includes




(a)

a staff member designated by the person in charge of the correctional
centre to exercise the powers and perform the duties and functions
under section 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 18, 19, 19.1 or 20, and




(b)

a member of a class of persons designated by the person in charge of
the correctional centre to exercise the powers and perform the duties
and functions under section 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 18, 19, 19.1 or 20;


"contraband"
means any of the following:




(a)

an intoxicant;




(b)

if possessed without prior authorization, a weapon, any component of a
weapon or ammunition for a weapon, or anything that is designed to
kill, injure or disable or is altered so as to be capable of killing,
injuring or disabling;




(c)

an explosive or bomb, or any component of an explosive or bomb;




(d)

if possessed without prior authorization, any currency;




(e)

if possessed without prior authorization, tobacco leaves or any
products produced from tobacco in any form or for any use;




(f)

if possessed without prior authorization, any other object or
substance that, in the opinion of an authorized person, may threaten
the management, operation, discipline or security of, or safety of
persons in, the correctional centre;



"correctional centre"

means a lawful place of confinement in British Columbia, including,
without limitation, a jail, prison, lockup, place of imprisonment,
camp or correctional institution, and any land connected with it, but
does not include, except for the purposes of section 32 respecting
shared facilities, any of the following:




(a)

prisons or lockups operated by police forces or police departments;




(b)

prisons or lockups operated by designated policing units, as defined
in section 1 of the

Police Act

, or by designated law enforcement units, as defined in section 1 of
the

Police Act

;




(c)

penitentiaries under the control of Canada;




(d)

a youth custody centre as defined in the

Youth Justice Act

;


"court"
includes the Court of Appeal, Supreme Court, Provincial Court and a
justice of the peace;


"director"
means the Director of the Investigation and Standards Office;


"inmate"
means a person who is sentenced to imprisonment, lawfully detained or
confined for treatment, at a correctional centre, and includes a
prisoner;



"inmate communication"

means communication made or intended to be made by oral, written,
electronic or prescribed means between an inmate and another person,
including another inmate, other than a privileged communication
specified under section 33 (2) (u);



"staff member"

means a person holding an appointment under section 2 (1) (a) or (b)
and employed in a correctional centre and includes a person providing
a service in a correctional centre under a contract with the minister;



"work program"

means a program established under section 23.




Part 1 — Probation Officers and Corrections Staff





Probation officers and other officers and employees




2

(1)


The minister may appoint under the

Public Service Act





(a)

persons, or persons within a class of persons, to be probation
officers, and




(b)

other officers and employees the minister considers necessary to
exercise powers and perform duties under this Act.




(2)

In an appointment under subsection (1), the minister may




(a)

limit the powers and duties that a person, officer or employee may
exercise under this Act, and




(b)

make the appointment subject to terms and conditions.




(3)

Persons, officers and employees appointed to exercise powers and
perform duties under this Act are peace officers while exercising
those powers and performing those duties.




(4)

Subsection (3) does not apply to the director or an employee of the
Investigation and Standards Office.






Temporary appointments




3

(1)


Despite the

Public Service Act

, the minister may appoint persons required for the purposes of this
Act to meet an actual or impending emergency.




(2)

On request by a court and with the approval of the minister, a person
may exercise the powers and perform the duties of a probation officer
without remuneration for the purposes and in the geographic area of
British Columbia specified in the approval.






Powers and duties of probation officers




4

(1)


Subject to any limitations, terms and conditions imposed on the
appointment under section 2 (2), a probation officer




(a)

is a probation officer for all of British Columbia,




(b)

is an officer of every court in British Columbia,




(c)

must prepare reports for the court as the court may order,




(d)

has power to procure and report information for the court in respect
of a person convicted by the courts,




(e)

is, if appointed a parole supervisor under the

Corrections and Conditional Release Act

(Canada), a peace officer under the jurisdiction of the government,




(f)

[Repealed 2007-8-10.]




(g)

is, if attached to the staff of a correctional centre, subject to the
directions of the person in charge of the correctional centre, and
must assist in casework services and post-release planning for
inmates, and




(h)

has the additional prescribed powers and duties.




(2)

A probation officer is responsible for the supervision of




(a)

persons placed on probation by a court, and




(b)

persons subject to conditional sentences imposed by a court.




(3)

A probation officer charged with the supervision of a person on whom
the passing of sentence was suspended, or who is subject to a
probation order or a conditional sentence, may report to the court or
prosecutor if the person fails to carry out the terms




(a)

on which the passing of sentence was suspended,




(b)

of the probation order, or




(c)

of the conditional sentence.






Protection of officials in duties




5

(1)


No action for damages lies or may be brought against a person holding
an appointment under section 2 (1) (a) or (b) because of anything done
or omitted




(a)

in the performance or intended performance of a duty under this Act,
or




(b)

in the exercise or intended exercise of a power under this Act


unless the thing was done or omitted in bad faith.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not absolve the government from vicarious
liability for an act or omission for which it would be vicariously
liable if this section were not in force.






Long service medals




6


In recognition of the contribution to public safety that is made by
staff members, the minister may issue medals for long service.




Part 2 — Custody of Inmates



Division 1 — Correctional Centres





Establishing or discontinuing centres




7


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may establish or discontinue
correctional centres as the Lieutenant Governor in Council considers
necessary.






Regulation outside correctional centre




8


A street, highway or place, public or private, along or across which
an inmate may pass in going to or returning from work, duty or other
absence authorized under section 21 or 22, and every place where an
inmate may be under those sections, must, while so used by an inmate,
be considered a portion of a correctional centre for the purposes of
this Act, except for the purposes of section 17 (2).




Division 2 — Receiving and Moving Inmates





Certificate of health required




9

(1)


The person in charge of a correctional centre is not required to
accept a person into custody under a warrant of committal unless a
certificate of a medical practitioner or nurse practitioner certifies
for that person all of the following:




(a)

the state of health of the person;




(b)

that the person is fit for transfer;




(c)

that the person is free from any infectious or contagious disease.




(2)

A person sentenced to imprisonment in, or ordered by competent
authority to be conveyed to, a correctional centre from any other
jail, prison or lockup may remain and be kept in lawful custody in the
jail, prison or lockup from which the person was sentenced or ordered
to be conveyed, until the certificate of health required by this
section has been provided.






Receiving and moving inmates




10

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), each correctional centre may receive
inmates from any part of British Columbia.




(2)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may, by order, designate a
correctional centre as a regional correctional centre to receive
inmates or classes of inmates from an area of British Columbia
designated in the order.




(3)

Despite any order made under this section and the terms of any
custodial disposition to the contrary, the person in charge of a
correctional centre may direct that prisoners confined in one
correctional centre be moved to another correctional centre.






Detention agreements




11

(1)


On behalf of the government, the minister may enter into an agreement
with a municipality for the detention in a correctional centre of
persons whose detention is chargeable to the municipality on terms for
reimbursement of expenses as may be mutually agreeable.




(2)

An agreement similar to that authorized under subsection (1) may be
made for reimbursing municipalities for the expenses of detention in a
municipal lockup of persons from inside or outside the municipality
whose detention is chargeable to the government.




(3)

All persons lawfully acting under an agreement referred to in
subsection (1) or (2) have full authority to detain persons and are
empowered to do so.




(4)

Lockups and other institutions used for the purpose of an agreement
made under this section are places of detention for the purposes and
localities specified in the agreement.




Division 3 — Security Measures





Use of force and restraining devices




12

(1)


Officers and employees appointed under this Act may use a reasonable
degree and means of force for any of the following purposes:




(a)

to prevent injury or death to a person;




(b)

to prevent property damage;




(c)

to prevent an inmate from escaping;




(d)

to maintain custody and control of an inmate.




(2)

A device used to physically restrain an inmate may only be used in
prescribed circumstances and in accordance with prescribed procedures.






Search of inmates




13

(1)


On admission, entry or return of an inmate to a correctional centre,
an authorized person must conduct a search of the inmate and any
personal possessions, including clothing, that the inmate may be
carrying or wearing.




(2)

For the purpose of detecting contraband, an authorized person may
without individualized suspicion conduct periodic searches of




(a)

an inmate and any personal possessions, including clothing, that the
inmate may be carrying or wearing, and




(b)

the inmate's cell and its contents.




(3)

If an authorized person believes on reasonable grounds that an inmate
may be in possession of contraband or evidence relating to an offence
under section 17 (1), the authorized person may conduct a search of
any of the following, as necessary in the circumstances:




(a)

the inmate and any personal possessions, including clothing, that the
inmate may be carrying or wearing;




(b)

the inmate's cell and its contents.




(4)

A search under subsection (1), (2) or (3) may include a strip search
conducted in accordance with the regulations.




(5)

A strip search of an inmate must be conducted by an authorized person
of the same sex as the inmate unless the delay that would be caused by
complying with this requirement would result in danger to human life
or safety.






Search and detention of visitors




14

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), an authorized person may, for security or
safety purposes and without individualized suspicion, conduct routine
searches of a visitor entering or leaving or in the correctional
centre and of any personal possessions, including clothing, that the
visitors may be carrying or wearing.




(2)

If a visitor refuses to undergo a search under subsection (1), the
authorized person may




(a)

prohibit a contact visit with an inmate and authorize a non-contact
visit, or




(b)

request the visitor to leave the correctional centre immediately.




(3)

A visitor must comply with a request made under subsection (2) (b).




(4)

If an authorized person believes on reasonable grounds that a visitor
is carrying contraband or is in possession of evidence relating to an
offence under section 17 (1),




(a)

the authorized person may, with the visitor's consent, conduct a
search of the visitor and any personal possessions, including
clothing, that the visitor may be wearing or carrying, in order to
find the contraband or evidence, or




(b)

the person in charge of the correctional centre may authorize the
detention of the visitor in order to obtain the services of the
police.




(5)

With the visitor's consent, a search under subsection (4) (a) may
include a strip search conducted in accordance with the regulations.




(6)

A strip search of a visitor must be conducted by an authorized person
of the same sex as the visitor unless the delay that would be caused
by complying with this requirement would result in danger to human
life or safety.




(7)

If contraband or evidence relating to an offence under section 17 (1)
is found in a search under subsection (1) or (4) (a) of this section,
the person in charge of the correctional centre may authorize the
further detention of the visitor in order to obtain the services of
the police.




(8)

A person detained under this section must




(a)

be informed promptly of the reasons for the detention and of the
person's right to retain and instruct counsel, and




(b)

be given a reasonable opportunity to retain and instruct counsel.






Search and detention of staff members




15

(1)


An authorized person may without individualized suspicion conduct




(a)

routine searches, authorized for security or safety purposes by the
person in charge of the correctional centre, of staff members entering
or leaving or in the correctional centre and of any personal
possessions, including clothing, that staff members may be carrying or
wearing, and




(b)

random searches, authorized for security or safety purposes by the
person in charge of the correctional centre of staff members' lockers.




(2)

A staff member must not impede or obstruct an authorized person
conducting a search under subsection (1).




(3)

If an authorized person believes on reasonable grounds that a staff
member is carrying contraband or is in possession of evidence relating
to an offence under section 17 (1),




(a)

the authorized person may, with the staff member's consent, conduct a
search of the staff member, the staff member's locker in the
correctional centre and any personal possessions, including clothing,
that the staff member may be wearing or carrying, in order to find the
contraband or evidence, or




(b)

the person in charge of the correctional centre may authorize the
detention of the staff member in order to obtain the services of the
police.




(4)

With the staff member's consent, a search under subsection (3) (a) may
include a strip search conducted in accordance with the regulations.




(5)

A strip search of a staff member must be conducted by an authorized
person of the same sex as the staff member unless the delay that would
be caused by complying with this requirement would result in danger to
human life or safety.




(6)

If contraband or evidence relating to an offence under section 17 (1)
is found in a search under subsection (1) or (3) (a) of this section,
the person in charge of the correctional centre may authorize the
further detention of the staff member in order to obtain the services
of the police.




(7)

A staff member detained under this section must




(a)

be informed promptly of the reasons for the detention and of the staff
member's right to retain and instruct counsel, and




(b)

be given a reasonable opportunity to retain and instruct counsel.






Search of vehicles




16

(1)


An authorized person may without individualized suspicion conduct
routine visual inspections or searches of vehicles that are on the
property of a correctional centre.




(2)

If an authorized person believes on reasonable grounds that a vehicle
entering, leaving or on the property of a correctional centre has been
used, is about to be used or is being used in the commission of an
offence under section 17 (1), the authorized person may conduct a
search of the vehicle and its contents in accordance with the
regulations.






Contraband and trespassing offences




17

(1)


A person commits an offence if at a correctional centre the person
possesses, delivers or sends to or receives from an inmate anything
that is referred to in paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of the definition of
"contraband" in section 1.




(2)

A person commits an offence if the person trespasses on the grounds,
buildings or other premises belonging or related to a correctional
centre.






Powers of seizure and disposition of things seized




18

(1)


A staff member may seize an object or substance if the staff member
believes on reasonable grounds that the object or substance is
contraband or evidence relating to an offence under section 17 (1).




(2)

As soon as practicable after an object or a substance is seized under
subsection (1), the staff member must




(a)

make a record describing the object or substance and the circumstances
in which it was seized, and




(b)

deposit the object or substance in a secure place at the correctional
centre.




(3)

Section 23 (4) of the

Offence Act

applies if an object or substance seized under subsection (1) is
required as evidence in a trial, inquiry or proceeding other than a
hearing referred to in section 33 (2) (n) of this Act.




(4)

The person in charge of the correctional centre must return an object
or substance seized under subsection (1) to its owner if




(a)

it is in the custody or control of the person in charge of the
correctional centre,




(b)

it is not contraband or evidence relating to an offence under section
17 (1), and




(c)

there is no dispute about who owns it.




(5)

If an object or substance is seized from an inmate under subsection
(1) and the object or substance is contraband but its possession
outside the correctional centre would be lawful, the person in charge
of the correctional centre may direct that




(a)

the object or substance be kept in a secure place at the correctional
centre and returned to the inmate on the inmate's release from
custody,




(b)

the inmate be given 30 days to make arrangements for the disposal or
safekeeping of the object or substance outside the correctional
centre, or




(c)

the object or substance be disposed of if




(i)

it is of a perishable nature and subject to spoilage,




(ii)

it will deteriorate in value if kept,




(iii)

its custody involves unreasonable expense or inconvenience,




(iv)

keeping it is unsafe, or




(v)

it is dangerous to life, health or property.




(6)

An object or substance seized under subsection (1) is forfeited to the
government in accordance with the regulations if




(a)

within 30 days after being notified of its seizure, the owner does not
request its return,




(b)

the owner cannot be located and 3 months have passed since the
seizure,




(c)

the object or substance is determined to be contraband in a hearing
referred to in section 33 (2) (n) and possession of it outside the
correctional centre would be unlawful, or




(d)

in the case of an owner who is an inmate,




(i)

possession of it by the inmate would constitute possession of
contraband, and




(ii)

the inmate has not arranged for the disposal or safekeeping of the
object or substance outside the correctional centre within 30 days
after being given the opportunity to do so in accordance with
subsection (5) (b).






Inmate communication




19

(1)


An authorized person may restrict, intercept, monitor or record inmate
communication in accordance with this section and the regulations.




(2)

An authorized person may without individualized suspicion intercept or
record inmate communication.




(3)

An authorized person may restrict, intercept or monitor inmate
communication if one or more of the following apply:




(a)

the authorized person has reasonable grounds to believe that the
inmate is




(i)

involved in illegal activities,




(ii)

harassing or causing harm to others, or




(iii)

participating in an activity that may jeopardize the safety, security
or operation of the correctional centre;




(b)

a court order restricts or prohibits communication or contact between
the inmate and the other person;




(c)

the other person has indicated to the authorized person that the other
person does not wish to communicate with the inmate.




(4)

If inmate communication has been restricted, an authorized person must
as soon as practicable inform the inmate in writing and give the
reasons under subsection (3) for the restriction.






Disclosure




19.1

(1)


An authorized person may,




(a)

in prescribed circumstances or in relation to prescribed classes of
inmate communication, disclose in the prescribed manner that a
communication is inmate communication, and




(b)

in prescribed circumstances or in relation to prescribed classes of
communication specified under section 33 (2) (u) as privileged,
disclose in the prescribed manner that a privileged communication
originates from the correctional centre.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1) (b), an authorized person may
without individualized suspicion intercept a privileged communication.






Urinalysis




20

(1)


An authorized person may demand that an inmate submit to urinalysis




(a)

at any time, if the authorized person believes on reasonable grounds
that the inmate has taken an intoxicant into the inmate's body, or




(b)

if abstention from an intoxicant is a condition of a temporary
absence, work program, voluntary treatment program or conditional
release and urinalysis is required to monitor an inmate's compliance
with the condition,




(i)

at regular intervals, or




(ii)

at any time, if the authorized person believes on reasonable grounds
that the inmate has breached the condition.




(2)

An authorized person who makes a demand under this section must




(a)

first inform the inmate of the basis of the demand and the
consequences of failure to comply with the demand, and




(b)

carry out the demand and take the sample in accordance with the
regulations.




Division 4 — Absences, Employment and Remission





Attendance of inmate outside centre




21

(1)


The minister may authorize the employment or attendance of an inmate
for any specific work, duty or purpose beyond the limits of a
correctional centre.




(2)

The degree of supervision of the inmate must be determined by the
person in charge of the correctional centre.




(3)

During the employment or attendance referred to in subsection (1), the
inmate is subject to the rules, regulations and discipline of the
correctional centre, as applicable, and must obey all instructions
given to the inmate by the person in charge of the correctional
centre.






Temporary absences




22

(1)


The minister may authorize an inmate to be absent from a correctional
centre with or without escort, subject to any conditions that the
minister considers appropriate, if in the minister's opinion the
absence is necessary or desirable




(a)

for medical, educational or humanitarian reasons, or




(b)

to assist in the inmate's rehabilitation or reintegration into the
community.




(2)

A temporary absence under this section may be authorized for a maximum
period of 60 days and may be renewed by the minister for one or more
periods of a maximum of 60 days on reassessment of the case.




(3)

Despite subsection (2), a temporary absence for medical reasons may be
authorized for an unlimited period.




(4) and (5)

[Repealed 2007-8-11.]




(6)

During the period of a temporary absence authorized under subsection
(1), the inmate is subject to the rules, regulations and discipline of
the correctional centre, as applicable, and must obey all instructions
given to the inmate by the person in charge of the correctional
centre.






Suspension, cancellation and revocation of temporary absence




22.1

(1)


The minister may suspend, cancel or revoke an inmate's temporary
absence under section 22, before or after it begins, if




(a)

a breach of a condition of the absence has occurred or, in the
minister's opinion, the suspension, cancellation or revocation is
necessary to prevent a breach of a condition of the absence,




(b)

the grounds for authorizing the absence have changed or no longer
exist, or




(c)

based on information that could not reasonably have been provided at
the time the absence was authorized, the application has been
reassessed.




(2)

If the minister suspends, cancels or revokes an inmate's temporary
absence, the minister may issue a warrant or notice of suspension,
cancellation or revocation for the apprehension and recommittal of the
inmate.




(3)

A peace officer may arrest a person without a warrant or notice and
remand the person into custody if the peace officer believes on
reasonable grounds that a warrant or notice




(a)

has been issued under subsection (2) in respect of that person, and




(b)

is still in force.




(4)

Unless the warrant or notice is produced within 48 hours after an
arrest is made under subsection (3), the inmate must be released.






Work programs




23

(1)


The minister may establish and administer work programs.




(2)

The

Employment Standards Act

, the

Labour Relations Code

and the

Public Service Labour Relations Act

do not apply to inmates in respect of or due to their participation in
a work program.






Corrections Work Program Account




24

(1)


In this section,
"account"
means the Corrections Work Program Account continued under subsection
(2).




(2)

The Corrections Work Program Account is continued as a special account
in the general fund of the consolidated revenue fund.




(3)

Money in the account must be managed and accounted for in accordance
with any directives that Treasury Board may issue from time to time
and may, without an appropriation other than this section, be spent
for work programs.




(4)

There must be credited to the account




(a)

money authorized by the Treasury Board for the purposes of the
account, and




(b)

subject to the directives of Treasury Board, all money received by the
government from operation of the work programs or by way of return on
money expended from the account.






Work release and work program




25

(1)


If the minister authorizes an inmate's absence from a correctional
centre in order to be employed for wages, the minister may require
that any wages earned by the inmate from this employment be applied in
the manner set out in subsections (4) and (5).




(2)

If an inmate receives compensation as a result of the inmate's
participation in a work program, the minister may require that the
compensation received by the inmate be applied in the manner set out
in subsections (4) and (5).




(3)

If an inmate is employed for wages outside of a correctional centre or
is participating in a work program inside or outside of a correctional
centre, the minister may require




(a)

the employer of the inmate, or




(b)

the person who is paying compensation to the inmate


to forward the total amount owed to the inmate, less deductions
required by law, to the person in charge of the correctional centre.




(4)

The person in charge of the correctional centre must, subject to the
minister's approval, disburse the money received by the inmate for the
following purposes in descending order of priority:




(a)

the maintenance and support of the inmate's dependants in sums the
minister may direct;




(b)

the actual cost of travel expenses and meals for the inmate;




(c)

the cost of keeping the inmate at the correctional centre;




(d)

any other expense that the minister considers is in the best interest
of the inmate or the dependants of the inmate.




(5)

The person in charge of the correctional centre must credit any
balance remaining to the account of the inmate to be paid to the
inmate on the inmate's release from custody.




(6)

Despite subsections (4) and (5), the person in charge of the
correctional centre may waive or vary the manner of disbursing the
earnings of the inmate received by the person in charge in any way
that the person in charge, in the person's discretion, considers
necessary for the benefit of the inmate or the dependants of the
inmate.




(7)

The person in charge of the correctional centre receiving money under
this section must keep proper records of its receipt and disbursement
and account to the inmate on the inmate's release from custody.






Earned remission




26


An inmate who is serving a sentence for civil contempt or for an
offence under an enactment may be credited with earned remission in
accordance with the regulations.




Division 5 — Inspection and Investigation





Inspections




27

(1)


The minister must provide for the inspection of each correctional
centre on a periodic basis that the minister considers appropriate in
the circumstances.




(2)

The minister or a person conducting an inspection under this section
may at any time




(a)

enter a correctional centre, and




(b)

access any part of the correctional centre.




(3)

The minister or person conducting the inspection may examine any thing
or any record, except a medical record of an inmate, in the
correctional centre.






Investigations




28

(1)


The minister must maintain the Investigation and Standards Office.




(2)

The director




(a)

may delegate in writing one or more of the director's powers and
duties to an employee of the Investigation and Standards Office,




(b)

must investigate a matter respecting the administration of this Act on
the written request of the minister,




(c)

may investigate a matter respecting the administration of this Act on
the director's own motion,




(d)

must, subject to subsection (3), investigate complaints about the
administration of this Act as it affects the complainant, on receiving
a written complaint from




(i)

an inmate,




(ii)

a person on probation under this Act, or




(iii)

a person who is subject to a conditional sentence,




(e)

must report the director's findings under paragraph (b), (c) or (d) in
writing to the minister, and




(f)

[Repealed 2007-9-68.]




(g)

is entitled to access at any time to




(i)

a correctional centre and an inmate,




(ii)

a person appointed or approved under section 2 or 3 or a staff member,
and




(iii)

a file or document under the custody and control of the ministry.




(3)

The director may refuse to investigate a complaint or may stop or
postpone investigation of a complaint if the director considers that
the complaint is frivolous, vexatious or trivial or is not made in
good faith.




(4)

An employee to whom a power or duty is delegated under subsection (2)
(a) may not delegate that power or duty to another person.






Power to compel persons to answer questions and order disclosure




28.1

(1)


For the purposes of an investigation under section 28 (2) (b), (c) or
(d), the director may make an order requiring a person to do either or
both of the following:




(a)

attend, in person or by electronic means, before the director to
answer questions on oath or affirmation, or in any other manner;




(b)

produce for the director a record or thing in the person's possession
or control.




(2)

The director may apply to the Supreme Court for an order




(a)

directing a person to comply with an order made under subsection (1),
or




(b)

directing any directors and officers of a person to cause the person
to comply with an order made under subsection (1).






Contempt proceeding for uncooperative person




28.2


The failure or refusal of a person subject to an order under section
28.1 to do any of the following makes the person, on application to
the Supreme Court by the director, liable to be committed for contempt
as if in breach of an order or judgment of the Supreme Court:




(a)

attend before the director;




(b)

take an oath or make an affirmation;




(c)

answer questions;




(d)

produce records or things in the person's possession or control.






Immunity protection




28.3

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), no legal proceeding for damages lies or may
be commenced or maintained against the director, or a person acting on
behalf of or under the direction of the director, because of anything
done or omitted




(a)

in the performance or intended performance of any duty under section
28, or




(b)

in the exercise or intended exercise of any power under sections 28 to
28.2.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply to a person referred to in that
subsection in relation to anything done or omitted by that person in
bad faith.






Offence of obstructing inspections or investigations




29

(1)


A person must not obstruct or impede or refuse to admit the minister
or a person conducting an inspection under section 27 or a person
conducting an investigation under section 28.




(2)

A person must not aid or assist a person in obstructing or impeding or
refusing to admit the minister or a person conducting an inspection
under section 27 or a person conducting an investigation under section
28.




(3)

A person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) commits an offence.




Division 6 — Unlawfully at Large





Unlawfully at large




30


If an inmate whose absence from a correctional centre is authorized
under section 21 or 22 fails to return to the correctional centre when
instructed to do so, the inmate is deemed to be at large without
lawful excuse and may be apprehended, with or without a warrant, by a
peace officer and returned to custody.




Part 3 — General





Application of
Offence Act




31


Section 5 of the

Offence Act

does not apply to this Act.






Jurisdiction of the National Parole Board




31.1


The National Parole Board is authorized to exercise in British
Columbia the jurisdiction described in section 108 (2) of the

Corrections and Conditional Release Act

(Canada).






Shared facility agreements




32

(1)


In this section:



"police prisoner"

means a person who is detained in custody but has not been remanded or
committed to custody by a court;



"shared facility"

means a correctional centre that also contains facilities for the
detention of police prisoners.




(2)

On behalf of the government, the minister may enter into an agreement
with the City of Vancouver




(a)

respecting the establishment, building, management, operation and
security of a shared facility in the City of Vancouver,




(b)

respecting the provision of detention, security and ancillary services
for the shared facility, and




(c)

for reimbursement of expenses incurred by the government or the City
of Vancouver in relation to those matters under paragraphs (a) and
(b).






Power to make regulations




33

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
section 41 of the

Interpretation Act

.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations as follows:




(a)

for the management, operation, and security of correctional centres;




(b)

prescribing the powers and duties of persons employed in or about a
correctional centre and the qualifications, powers and duties of
probation officers;




(c)

establishing a process for receiving and responding to inmate
complaints;




(d)

respecting the separate confinement or segregation of inmates;




(e)

respecting the use of force and physical restraint devices on inmates;




(f)

respecting searches under sections 13 to 16, including, without
limitation, strip searches;




(g)

specifying the manner in which a demand that an inmate submit to
urinalysis be carried out and a urine sample be taken;




(h)

governing visits to inmates in correctional centres and the conduct of
visitors while in a correctional centre;




(i)

respecting the disposal of




(i)

unclaimed property abandoned by an inmate at a correctional centre,
including, without limitation, providing for the forfeiture of the
property to the government, and




(ii)

property forfeited under section 18 (6);




(j)

for the diet, clothing, maintenance, accommodation, employment and
training of inmates;




(k)

establishing rules governing the conduct of inmates in a correctional
centre;




(l)

providing that an inmate's breach of a rule referred to in paragraph
(k) is a matter in respect of which the inmate may be disciplined;




(m)

establishing and providing for an informal resolution process that may
be employed in relation to breaches of rules referred to in paragraph
(k);




(n)

respecting hearings in relation to an alleged breach of the rules
referred to in paragraph (k), including, without limitation, the
practices and procedures for the hearings;




(o)

establishing and providing for a range of penalties for breaches of
rules referred to in paragraph (k) and specifying criteria to be
applied by a person presiding over a disciplinary hearing in imposing
a penalty from the range of penalties established;




(p)

prescribing allowances for persons who preside over disciplinary
hearings who are not employees under the

Public Service Act

;




(q)

establishing a process for reconsideration of a penalty imposed in a
disciplinary hearing, and the powers and duties of a person conducting
the reconsideration;




(r)

establishing a process for review of a decision made in a disciplinary
hearing, and the powers and duties of a person conducting the review;




(s)

respecting the restriction, interception, monitoring or recording of
inmate communication;




(t)

providing for the handling, retention and disposal of inmate
communication that is intercepted or recorded;




(u)

specifying communications between an inmate and another person that
are privileged;




(v)

respecting procedures that an authorized person must follow, and
specifying criteria that an authorized person must apply, to examine
an inmate communication and determine whether it is a privileged
communication;




(w)

governing inmates who are authorized to be absent from a correctional
centre;




(x)

specifying criteria for crediting earned remission, failing to earn
remission and forfeiting earned remission and providing for the
appointment and duties of remission awards assessors and reviews of
their decisions;




(y)

respecting the inspection of correctional centres;




(z)

defining words or expressions used but not defined in this Act.




(3)

The minister must post, in legible characters and in conspicuous parts
of a correctional centre, copies of regulations made under subsection
(2) that relate to the treatment, conduct and discipline of inmates.




(4)

Despite the

Public Service Act

or any other Act, the Lieutenant Governor in Council may make
regulations as follows:




(a)

prescribing the compulsory retirement age for a person holding an
appointment under section 2 (1) (a) or (b) and employed in a
correctional centre;




(b)

specifying the qualifications that are necessary to be exempted from a
regulation under paragraph (a) and tests that measure the ability of a
person holding an appointment to




(i)

exercise the powers and duties of the appointment, and




(ii)

contribute to the maintenance of safety and security and the
management and operation of a correctional centre.




(5)

Regulations made under subsection (2) (k) may be different for
different correctional centres.




(6)

A regulation under subsection (4) may




(a)

be made applicable generally or to a specific class of persons,




(b)

for the purposes of the regulation, define classes of persons, and




(c)

provide differently for different classes of persons.




Repeal









[Note: See Table of Legislative Changes for the status of sections
34 to 43.]









Section(s)



Affected Act




34




Correction Act, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 74







Consequential Amendments






Section(s)



Affected Act




35




Parole Act





36-43




Youth Justice Act









Commencement




44


This Act comes into force by regulation of the Lieutenant Governor in
Council.




