




Creditor Assistance Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 83






Definitions




1


In this Act:



"certificate"

means the certificate of the district registrar certifying the amount
of claim to which a creditor is entitled under this Act, whether the
claim be uncontested or found by the court;


"court"
means the Supreme Court;


"rateably"
means in proportion to the amount of a person's executions or
certificates;



"writ of execution"

includes an order for seizure and sale issued under the Small Claims
Rules.






Sheriff's notice of levy




2

(1)


When a sheriff levies money on an execution against the property of a
debtor, the sheriff must enter promptly in a book a notice stating
that the levy has been made, its amount and the date of the entry.




(2)

The book must be kept in the sheriff's office and must be open to
public inspection without charge.






Distribution




3


The money collected under section 2 must be distributed rateably among
all execution creditors and other creditors whose writs or
certificates, under this Act, were in the sheriff's hands at the time
of the levy, or within one month from the entry of notice, subject to
the provisions for retention of dividends for contested claims, and to
the payment of the costs of the creditor whose writ initiated the
levy.






Exceptions




4

(1)


Sections 2 and 3 do not apply to money received by a sheriff as
proceeds of a sale of property by the sheriff under an interpleader
order.




(2)

In subsections (3) and (4)
"adverse claim"
means a contested claim in which an interpleader issue is directed.




(3)

If the interpleader issue is decided in favour of the creditors, the
sheriff must distribute the money, whether held by the sheriff or the
court, among the creditors contesting the adverse claim.




(4)

If the sheriff or other officer takes proceedings under a provision
relating to interpleader, only those creditors who are parties to the
proceedings and who agree to contribute rateably to the expense of
contesting an adverse claim are entitled to share in any benefit
derived from a contest of the claim so far as may be necessary to
satisfy their executions or certificates.




(5)

The court may direct that




(a)

one creditor has the carriage of the interpleader proceedings on
behalf of all interested creditors, and




(b)

the costs of the proceedings, as between solicitor and client, are a
first charge on the money or goods that may be found by the
proceedings to be applicable on the executions or certificates.




(6)

On an interpleader application, the court may allow other creditors
who want to take part in the contest a reasonable time to place their
executions or certificates in the sheriff's hands, on terms about
costs and otherwise as may be just.






Subsequent levy




5

(1)


If, after the notice is entered but within the month, the sheriff
levies a further amount from the property of the debtor, it must be
dealt with as if that amount had been levied before the notice was
entered.




(2)

If, after the month a further amount is levied, a new notice must be
entered and distribution made according to section 4.






Claims by other creditors




6

(1)


If a debtor permits an execution against the debtor, under which any
of the debtor's goods or chattels are seized by a sheriff, to remain
unsatisfied in the sheriff's hands until 2 days before the time set
for sale by the sheriff or for 20 days after the seizure, other
creditors of the same debtor may make their claims for their debts,
whether due and payable or not.




(2)

An affidavit of claim of debt with particulars may be made in
duplicate by




(a)

the creditor,




(b)

one of the creditors for a joint debt, or




(c)

a person knowledgeable of the facts.






Service on debtor




7

(1)


The claimant must serve on the debtor




(a)

a duplicate of the affidavit, and




(b)

a notice stating that




(i)

the claimant intends to file the other duplicate with the district
registrar, because there is in the sheriff's hands a writ of execution
against the debtor's goods and chattels, and




(ii)

the claimant intends to require the sheriff to levy the debt out of
the debtor's property under the authority of this Act.




(2)

The notice must also advise the debtor that if the debtor contests the
claim, or part of it, the debtor must file in the registry, within 10
days of service, an affidavit stating that the debtor has a good
defence on the merits to the whole claim or part stated, otherwise the
claim or part will be treated as admitted by the debtor.




(3)

The notice must




(a)

require an address for service within 5 km of the place where the
registry is located, or of a solicitor in British Columbia who may be
served for the debtor, and




(b)

advise the debtor that, if the debtor does not supply an address as
required, a document to be served may be served by mail addressed to
the debtor at the place where the registry is located.




(4)

The notice may be endorsed on the claimant's affidavit or attached to
it.




(5)

If the claimant's affidavit is to be served outside of British
Columbia, the court must set the time for the claimant's next step.




(6)

If practicable, the claimant's affidavit and notice must be personally
served on the debtor.




(7)

If it appears to the court that the claimant is unable to effect
prompt personal service, the court may




(a)

order substituted or other service, or




(b)

appoint some act to be done that is deemed to be sufficient service.






Procedure in registry




8

(1)


The claimant must file with the district registrar




(a)

a duplicate affidavit of claim,




(b)

a copy of the notice, and




(c)

an affidavit of service.




(2)

Before or with the filing in the registry, the claimant must file a
certificate of the sheriff or an affidavit showing that there is in
the sheriff's hand an execution against the debtor to entitle the
creditor to proceed under this Act.




(3)

The district registrar with whom the affidavit is to be filed must be
determined by regulation, having regard to the sheriff who gives the
notice provided for by section 2.






Address for service




9

(1)


An execution debtor may give the sheriff a written notice that any
claim to be served on the execution debtor may be served




(a)

on a solicitor in British Columbia, whose name and address is stated
in the notice, or




(b)

by mailing the claim to an address stated in the notice located in or
within 5 km of the place where the office of the district
registrar is located.




(2)

The sheriff must




(a)

enter the notice in the book established under section 2,




(b)

so long as any execution in the sheriff's hands at the time the notice
was given remains in the sheriff's hands, repeat the entry immediately
below any levy notice given for the execution, and




(c)

if the notice is revoked in writing, mark the entry "revoked".




(3)

So long as the notice is not revoked, an affidavit of claim and
accompanying notice under this Act may be served on an execution
debtor




(a)

if a solicitor is named, by serving them on the solicitor, or




(b)

if mailing is required, by mailing them by registered mail




(i)

to the address given in the notice, or




(ii)

if no address is given in the notice, to the place where the office of
the district registrar is located.






Service on claimant




10


If the notice under section 7 served on a debtor does not state an
address for service in or within 5 km of the office of the
district registrar, or does not give the name and address of a
solicitor in British Columbia who may be served, a document may be
served on the claimant by mailing it by registered mail, addressed to
the claimant at the place where the district registrar's office is
located.






Certificate of claim




11

(1)


If the claim is not contested, the district registrar, 10 days after
the day of service of the notice, personally or under section 9 (3),
or within the time mentioned in the order for substituted or other
service, on application and the filing of proof of that service, or on
the termination of a dispute in favour of the claimant, in whole or in
part, must deliver a certificate of claim to the creditor, or the
creditor's agent.




(2)

If the claim is only disputed in part, the creditor may elect, by
writing filed in the registry, to abandon the part and obtain a
certificate for the residue.




(3)

The certificate must be delivered to the sheriff, and from the time of
delivery the claimant is an execution creditor within the meaning of
this Act, and entitled to share in whatever is recovered under the
executions in the sheriff's hands, as if the claimant had delivered to
the sheriff an execution against goods.




(4)

The certificate binds the goods of the debtor.




(5)

Despite subsection (4), a creditor may dispute the debt after the
delivery of the certificate to the sheriff.




(6)

For the purposes of an interpleader proceeding, a certificate is
deemed to be an execution.




(7)

If the certificate is obtained by a solicitor, it must state the
solicitor's name and address.




(8)

If the certificate is obtained by the claimant in person, it must
state some place, in or within 5 km of the place where the office
of the district registrar is located, at which service may be made on
the claimant.




(9)

If no place is stated in the certificate, service may be made on the
claimant by registered mail addressed to the claimant at the place
where the office of the district registrar is located.






Sheriff to make another levy




12


On receiving the certificate, the sheriff must make a further seizure
of the debtor's goods and chattels, if any, worth enough to cover the
amount certified plus the sheriff's fees.






Expiry of certificates




13

(1)


Unless renewed, a certificate remains in force for 3 years from
its date.




(2)

The certificate may be renewed in the same manner as a writ of
execution.




(3)

Despite the expiry of a writ or certificate, it has full effect for
any money levied during the month in which a notice of money having
been made is required to be entered.






Right to contest claim by debtor




14

(1)


The claim may be contested by the debtor or by a creditor interested
in contesting it.




(2)

A debtor who contests a claim must file in the registry an affidavit
stating that the debtor has a good defence on the merits to the claim,
or to a specified part of it.




(3)

The court may dispense with the affidavit on terms or otherwise.




(4)

The debtor must serve a copy of the affidavit on the claimant




(a)

within 10 days after the affidavit of claim and the notice are served
on the debtor, or




(b)

within the time set by the court.




(5)

The address provisions in section 11 (7) to (9) apply to the affidavit
and the debtor.






Contest by creditor




15

(1)


A creditor who contests a claim must file in the registry an affidavit
stating that the creditor believes the debt claimed is not in good
faith due from the debtor to the claimant.




(2)

The court may dispense with the affidavit on terms or otherwise.




(3)

The affidavit by a creditor may be filed and a certificate of filing
delivered to the sheriff at any time before distribution.






Duties of parties if claim contested




16

(1)


A claimant whose claim is contested may apply to the court for an
order allowing the claim and determining the amount.




(2)

The claimant is deemed to have abandoned the claim if the claimant
does not apply within




(a)

8 days of receiving notice of the contest, or




(b)

such further time, if any, as the court allows if the delay is
reasonably accounted for.




(3)

If a creditor contests a claim and there is reason to believe that the
contest is not in good faith, any other creditor may apply for an
order permitting the other creditor to intervene.






Examination of parties




17


Parties or other persons may be examined




(a)

either before or at the trial, as in an ordinary action, and




(b)

before the application to the court and as a foundation for it.






Writs for any county




18


A creditor entitled to a certificate from the district registrar may
have a writ of execution issued for any county in the same manner as
on an ordinary judgment.






Decision in one county binding in others




19

(1)


If a claim is contested in one county, the decision determines, for
the parties, the amount of the claim for the purposes of this Act in
all other counties in which the claim is filed.




(2)

The certificate of the district registrar of the decision is proof of
the decision.






Record and index of claims




20

(1)


The district registrar must maintain a record for every claim in
respect of which the district registrar issues a certificate.




(2)

The record must state the following:




(a)

the name of each claimant and each debtor;




(b)

the amount of debt on each certificate exclusive of costs;




(c)

the amount of costs;




(d)

the judgment on each dispute;




(e)

the setting aside of the proceeding, if any, with a short statement of
the reason.




(3)

Entries must be indexed alphabetically by the debtor.




(4)

Subject to this Act, an entry in favour of the claimant is an award of
judgment for the debt and costs.






Copy of record as evidence




21


If original papers are lost or destroyed, a copy of an entry in the
record is evidence of matters in the entry.






Time to pay




22

(1)


Before or after a certificate is issued by the district registrar or
delivered to the sheriff, the court may allow the debtor further time
to pay if




(a)

the debtor has made an application and given notice to the claimant,
and




(b)

the court believes that this may be done without injustice to the
creditor, or on terms that it believes are just.




(2)

There may be successive orders but no claim may be delayed for more
than 3 months in all.




(3)

This section does not apply to a creditor who has obtained judgment in
the ordinary way, and the orders for time are not to prejudice an
execution by that creditor on the judgment.






Payment before sale




23

(1)


A notice under section 2 must not be entered if, without a sale by the
sheriff, all executions and claims in the sheriff's hands are
withdrawn or paid in full, and no other claim has been filed with the
district registrar.




(2)

If a debtor without a sale by the sheriff pays the sheriff part of the
amount owing on an execution or claim in the sheriff's hands, and
there is at the time no other execution or claim in the sheriff's
hands, the sheriff must apply the amount paid to the execution or
claim in the sheriff's hands, and section 2 does not apply to the
money so received by the sheriff.






Expiry of writs




24


After a certificate has been filed with the sheriff, the expiry,
return, setting aside, stay or withdrawal of the writ on which the
proceedings are founded or the satisfaction of the plaintiff's claim
do not affect certificate proceedings under this Act, except




(a)

so far as the action taken may affect the amount to be levied, or




(b)

as provided in section 23 (2).






Costs of claimant




25


The district registrar must state in the certificate the amount of
costs to which the claimant is entitled against the debtor as follows:




(a)

serving affidavit of claim, the same fees allowed to a sheriff under
the Supreme Court Civil Rules;




(b)

court registry fees, the same fees payable to the government for
similar matters in the Supreme Court, to be allowed as costs to the
claimant;




(c)

if there is no contest, the sum of $12 for fees of a solicitor, if
employed, on a claim over $300, $8 on a claim under $300 and over
$100, and $5 on a claim under $100;




(d)

in the case of a contest, the costs must be taxed on the Supreme Court
scale appropriate to the claim allowed, and the costs of any contest
are in the discretion of the court;




(e)

obtaining an order for substitutional service or similar order, or for
service out of British Columbia, costs taxed by the district registrar
on the basis provided for in paragraph (d).






Fund in court




26


If there is in any court a fund to which an execution debtor is
entitled, the money, or enough of it to meet claims in the sheriff's
hands, may be paid over, on the application of the sheriff or any
party interested, to the sheriff as money levied under execution
within the meaning of this Act.






Deficiency in levy




27


If the amount levied by the sheriff is not sufficient to pay the
execution debts and other claims, with costs, in full, the money must
be applied rateably to pay the debts and costs of the creditors, after
paying the sheriff's fees, the taxed costs and the costs of execution
to the creditor at whose instance the seizure and levy were made.






Interest and further costs




28


If the certificate so directs, the sheriff must levy interest from the
date of the certificate or the date named in the certificate, and also
$1.25 for disbursements and $3 solicitor's costs, if any, on each
renewal of the certificate.






Sheriff's fees




29


If money is to be distributed by a sheriff under this Act, the sheriff
is not entitled to poundage on each writ or claim, but only on the net
proceeds of the estate distributable by the sheriff, and at the same
rate as if the whole amount had been payable on one writ.






Recovery for benefit of all




30

(1)


If money is recovered on one writ, the money must be treated as
recovered on all writs or certificates entitled to benefit.




(2)

On paying a person entitled on a writ or certificate, the sheriff must
endorse on it a memorandum of the amount paid, but, except if
requested by the party issuing the writ, or directed by the court, the
sheriff must not return the writ until it has been fully satisfied or
has expired.






Compelling payment by sheriff




31


The same proceedings may be taken to compel the sheriff to pay money
payable on an execution or claim as may be brought to compel the
sheriff to return a writ of execution.






Statement pending distribution




32

(1)


Until distribution of the proceeds of a levy, the sheriff must keep in
the book mentioned in section 2 a statement showing, for any
debtor whose property has been levied, all of the following:




(a)

the amounts and dates of levy and particulars of each execution,
certificate or order in the sheriff's hands at the time of entering
the notice under that section or subsequently received during the
month;




(b)

the amount for debt and costs;




(c)

the date of receipt.




(2)

The statement must be amended as an additional amount is levied or a
new execution, certificate or order is received.






Sheriff to give information




33


The sheriff must, without fee,




(a)

answer any reasonable question that the sheriff may be asked, orally
or by letter, about a debtor's estate by a creditor, or anyone on the
creditor's behalf, and




(b)

facilitate the creditor obtaining full information about the whole
estate and probable dividend to be realized from it in the sheriff's
jurisdiction, and any other information about the estate that the
creditor reasonably wants.






Attaching orders




34

(1)


A sheriff may attach debts owing to a debtor by any person resident in
the sheriff's jurisdiction in the same manner as a creditor, if there
are several executions and claims and there do not appear to be
sufficient goods to pay them all and the sheriff's own fees.




(2)

The proceeds of the debts attached must be distributed in the same
manner as if realized by levy under execution.




(3)

If the sheriff does not proceed, a person entitled to distribution may
attach the debts owing to the debtor.




(4)

An attached debt must be paid to the sheriff.




(5)

Any creditor who attaches a debt does so for the creditor and all
creditors entitled under this Act.




(6)

The sheriff in making distribution must apportion to the garnishor a
share proportionate to the garnishor's claim, in the whole amount to
be distributed under this Act, but the share distributed to the
garnishor must not exceed the amount recovered by the garnishee
proceedings unless the garnishor has given the sheriff a writ of
execution or claim under this Act.




(7)

The sheriff is entitled to charge poundage on money garnisheed at the
rate of 1 1/4% only, unless the sheriff has taken the garnishee
proceedings.




(8)

The sheriff may recover from the attaching creditor money paid
directly or through the court to the attaching creditor by the
garnishee.






Distribution if claim is contested




35

(1)


If a creditor contests a claim after a certificate has been delivered
to the sheriff, the sheriff, unless the court otherwise orders, must
proceed and levy as if the claim had not been contested.




(2)

Until the contest is concluded, the sheriff must




(a)

retain the amount that would be apportionable to the claim if valid,
and




(b)

as soon as practicable, distribute the residue among those entitled.






Priority for wages and salary




36

(1)


All persons entitled to share in the distribution who at the time of
the levy by the sheriff, or within one month before the levy, were
employed by the debtor, are entitled to be paid the wages or salary
due or accruing due from the debtor to them at the time of the levy,
not exceeding 3 months' wages or salary, in priority to the
claims of the other creditors of the debtor.




(2)

They are entitled to their share, rateably with the other creditors,
for the residue of their claims, if any.




(3)

In the distribution of the estate of an execution debtor under this
Act, the provisions of this Act supersede the provisions of sections
46, 47 and 48 of the

Court Order Enforcement Act

.






Distribution to established claimants only




37


A creditor is not entitled to share in the distribution of money
levied unless the creditor




(a)

is an execution creditor, or




(b)

has established a claim under this Act either alone or jointly with
another person.






Distribution if amount levied insufficient




38

(1)


If the money levied is insufficient to pay all claims in full, the
sheriff may




(a)

distribute that money promptly as directed by this Act, or




(b)

first prepare, for examination by the debtor and the creditors, a list
of the creditors with the amount due to each for principal, interest
and costs.




(2)

The list must show the amount for each creditor under this Act and the
total amount to be distributed.




(3)

The sheriff may deliver or mail, prepaid registered, to each creditor
or the creditor's solicitor a copy of the list.






Distribution and objections




39

(1)


If within 8 days after the copies of the list under section 38
have been delivered or posted, or within further time allowed by the
court, no objection is made, the sheriff must distribute promptly,
according to the list.




(2)

If an objection is made the sheriff must distribute promptly an amount
of the money to those persons as may not interfere with the effect of
the objection.




(3)

The sheriff may disregard objections that are frivolous or clearly
insufficient to interfere with the distribution.






How objections are made and heard




40

(1)


A person who objects to the proposed distribution scheme may contest
it by giving the sheriff




(a)

a notice in writing stating distinctly the objection to the scheme, or
part of it, and the grounds of objection, and




(b)

an affidavit of previous service of a copy of the notice on the debtor
and the creditors interested in resisting the objection, unless the
court, by order, has dispensed with service, or an affidavit of
service, as the court determines.




(2)

The person who objects must then, within 8 days, apply on notice
for a court order determining the dispute.




(3)

If the steps in subsection (1) and (2) are not followed, the objection
is deemed to be abandoned.




(4)

The court may




(a)

determine any question in dispute in a summary manner or direct an
issue for trial, either by a jury or otherwise, and




(b)

make an order for costs of the proceeding as may be just.




(5)

If the person who objects fails or is only entitled to part of the
claim, the money retained until the contest, or the portion freed,
must be distributed among the creditors who would have been entitled.






Intervening encumbrance




41

(1)


In this section,
"security agreement"
has the same meaning as in the

Personal Property Security Act

.




(2)

If an execution debtor, subsequent to the sheriff's receipt of the
first execution and before the time for distribution has expired, has
executed a mortgage, a security agreement or other charge on the
debtor's estate, the sheriff must proceed as under this Act, but in
distributing any money realized the sheriff must deduct and retain for
the person entitled the amount of the encumbrance so created rateably
from the amount otherwise payable to the subsequent creditors.






Court's power on contest




42

(1)


The court may




(a)

direct the sheriff to levy an amount sufficient to cover a disputed
claim, or a part of it,




(b)

if it appears to the court that it is improbable that the defendant
has other sufficient property, order the sheriff to retain in the
sheriff's hands during the contest the share that, if the claim is
sustained, will be apportionable to it, or




(c)

make an order combining these orders or a similar order as may be
just.




(2)

An order to levy under this section gives the sheriff the same power
the sheriff would have under a writ of execution.






Powers of court




43

(1)


To carry out this Act, the court has all the powers it has for other
purposes.




(2)

Any proceeding wrongly taken under this Act may be set aside by the
court, with or without costs.






Decisions binding on all creditors




44


A decision under this Act of the court, or the Court of Appeal on
appeal, binds all creditors, unless it appears that the decision was
obtained by fraud or collusion of the parties.






Deposit of money




45

(1)


A sheriff must deposit in a savings institution in British Columbia
any money amounting to $100 or more, if the sheriff cannot immediately
pay it over to the execution creditors or other claimants under this
Act.




(2)

The deposit must be in the name of the sheriff in a special account as
"Trustee for the creditors of .............. [the debtor]".






No priority




46


There is no priority among execution creditors in the Supreme Court or
the Provincial Court.






Defects in form




47


A proceeding under this Act is not void for a defect in form.






Supreme Court Civil Rules




48


The Supreme Court Civil Rules apply so far as they are consistent with
this Act.






Fees




49


In addition to the fees otherwise payable under this Act, there must
be paid to the district registrar, on the filing of an affidavit of
claim or on the issue or renewal of a certificate, the fee prescribed
by the Lieutenant Governor in Council for that service.






Application




50

(1)


This Act is not intended to interfere with, but is intended to be
subject to, the insolvency laws in force in British Columbia.




(2)

Otherwise this Act applies to all debtors, solvent or not.






Power to make regulations




51


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations for the
purposes of section 8 (3) to provide for the district registrars with
whom affidavits must be filed.




