




Debtor Assistance Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 93






Definitions




1


In this Act:


"debt"
includes secured and unsecured debts, money owing under a guarantee,
and money owing under a mortgage, pledge, charge or lien on or against
property of a debtor;


"debtor"
means a person other than a corporation who




(a)

is experiencing difficulty in paying the person's debts, or




(b)

is or may become unable to pay the person's debts as they become due,
and includes the person's legal representatives after the person's
death;


"director"
means the Director of Debtor Assistance appointed under
section 2;


"minister"
includes a person designated in writing by the minister.






Director and staff




2

(1)


The minister may, under the

Public Service Act

, appoint a Director of Debtor Assistance, deputy directors, and other
employees required to carry out this Act.




(2)

Despite the

Public Service Act

, the minister may




(a)

employ persons on a temporary or part time basis or as specialists and
consultants,




(b)

determine their remuneration, and




(c)

without limiting the generality of paragraphs (a) and (b), employ a
person to or for whom income assistance is provided under the

Employment and Assistance Act

or disability assistance is provided under the


Employment and Assistance for Persons with Disabilities Act


.






Court clerks




3

(1)


On recommendation of the Attorney General, the Lieutenant Governor in
Council may appoint persons appointed or employed under section 2
as clerks of a court in British Columbia.




(2)

Even if a person is acting as a clerk of a court in a proceeding, the
person may in the same proceeding exercise the powers and carry out
the responsibilities of a person appointed or employed under
section 2.






Director a corporation




4


The director is a corporation and has the rights, powers and duties
given to and conferred or imposed on the director by this or any other
Act.






Powers of director




5


For the purpose of carrying out this Act the director has power and
authority to any or all of the following:




(a)

advise and assist a debtor in adjusting the debtor's debts and in
working out satisfactory arrangements for the settlement of the debts
with the debtor's creditors;




(b)

arrange meetings between a debtor and the debtor's creditors to try to
bring about satisfactory arrangements for the settlement of the
debtor's debts with the debtor's creditors;




(c)

advise and assist a debtor in the preparation of a plan or scheme for
settlement of the debtor's debts before a board or court involved in
the adjudication or settlement of debts;




(d)

if appropriate, aid a debtor in obtaining postponements, adjustments
or extensions of time for the payment of the debtor's debts;




(e)

act as an intermediary in negotiations between a debtor and the
debtor's creditors in the adjustment and settlement of debts;




(f)

generally render service, advice and assistance to a debtor who is
unable to meet the debtor's liabilities and who, through proceedings
in the courts or otherwise, is being pressed for payment or harassed
by the debtor's creditors;




(g)

operate programs, or enter into agreements with a person, for the
purpose of studying, researching, counselling or providing other
services for the improvement of problems affecting debtors;




(h)

provide financial or other assistance to a person referred to in
paragraph (g);




(i)

conduct, or arrange and finance, programs for the dissemination of
information respecting problems affecting debtors;




(j)

with the approval of the Lieutenant Governor in Council, enter into
agreements with any department of the government of Canada or of a
province for a purpose referred to in paragraph (g).






Powers of inquiry




6

(1)


The director, or a person authorized in writing by the director, may
make inquiries with regard to the assets and liabilities of a debtor
who applies for assistance under this Act or in respect of whom a
referral has been made by a court.




(2)

For the purpose of an inquiry under subsection (1), the director may
make an order requiring any person who the director considers has any
knowledge of the affairs of the debtor, including the debtor, the
debtor's employees and agents and the debtor's creditors, to do either
or both of the following:




(a)

attend, in person or by electronic means, before the director to
answer questions on oath or affirmation, or in any other manner;




(b)

produce for the director a record or thing in the person's possession
or control.




(3)

The director may apply to the Supreme Court for an order




(a)

directing a person to comply with an order made under subsection (2),
or




(b)

directing any officers and governing members of a person to cause the
person to comply with an order made under subsection (2).






Contempt proceeding for uncooperative person




6.1


The failure or refusal of a person subject to an order under section 6
to do any of the following makes the person, on application to the
Supreme Court by the director, liable to be committed for contempt as
if in breach of an order or judgment of the Supreme Court:




(a)

attend before the director;




(b)

take an oath or make an affirmation;




(c)

answer questions;




(d)

produce records or things in the person's possession or control.






Director may receive money




7

(1)


The director may receive money in trust from a debtor for transmission
to the debtor's creditors according to the debtor's instructions.




(2)

Despite any other Act, money paid to the director under subsection (1)
does not form part of the consolidated revenue fund.




(3)

[Repealed 2002-12-5.]






Reference to director by court




8

(1)


A court may refer to the director for an inquiry and written report
any question in a proceeding that relates to the financial resources
of a debtor and the debtor's ability to pay the debtor's debts.




(2)

The director may, in preparing a report under subsection (1), and
if the director is satisfied that the information continues to be
accurate, rely on information the director may have previously
obtained under section 6, without the necessity of a further
inquiry.




(3)

A report under subsection (1) may, if it is signed by the director, be
received by the court as proof of the truth of the facts stated in it
without the necessity of proving the director's appointment, authority
and signature; and the court may incorporate the report, wholly or
partially, into a judgment.




(4)

This section applies only to those areas of British Columbia
designated by the Lieutenant Governor in Council.






Protection from liability




9

(1)


A person appointed or employed under section 2, including the
director in the director's corporate capacity, is not liable for loss
or damage by reason of anything in good faith done or not done by the
person under this Act.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not relieve the person appointed or employed under
section 2, including the director in the director's corporate
capacity, from liability to account for all money that comes into the
person's possession or control because of the person's office of
employment.






Annual report




10

(1)


The director must submit annually to the minister a report respecting
the director's corporate activities, financial and otherwise, for the
immediately preceding fiscal year.




(2)

The report must be laid before the Legislature within 15 days
after the opening of the first session in the succeeding year.






Power to make regulations




11

(1)


For the purpose of carrying out this Act, the Lieutenant Governor in
Council may make regulations referred to in section 41 of the

Interpretation Act

.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations as follows:




(a)

respecting the powers, duties and functions of the director;




(b)

respecting proceedings and forms;




(c)

prescribing fees to be charged for any service performed under this
Act;




(d)

designating areas of British Columbia for section 8.




