




Financial Disclosure Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 139






Definitions




1


In this Act:


"business"
includes a profession, calling, trade, manufacture, undertaking of any
kind and an adventure or concern in the nature of trade, but does not
include an office or employment;


"debt"
does not include




(a)

a mortgage, lease or agreement for sale on land ordinarily occupied by
the debtor for, or as incidental to, residential purposes,




(b)

current and ordinary household and personal living expenses, and




(c)

money or other property entrusted to or received by a nominee,
municipal official, public employee or municipal employee in trust for
another person;



"disclosure clerk"

means




(a)

for a written disclosure filed by a nominee, the Clerk of the
Legislative Assembly,




(b)

for a written disclosure filed by a municipal official or municipal
employee,




(i)

in the case of an official or employee in relation to a municipality
or regional district, the local government corporate officer,




(i.1)

in the case of an official or employee in relation to the Islands
Trust, the secretary of the Islands Trust appointed under section 17
of the

Islands Trust Act

,




(ii)

in the case of an official or employee in relation to the board of a
school district, the secretary treasurer of the school district, and




(iii)

in the case of an official or employee in relation to a francophone
education authority, the chief executive officer of the authority, and




(c)

for a written disclosure filed by a public employee, the Provincial
Secretary;


"employment"
means the position of an individual in the service of some other
person;



"francophone education authority"

has the same meaning as in the

School Act

;


"interest"
means an interest specified, or required to be specified, in a written
disclosure regardless of the date when it is required under
section 3 to be filed;


"land"
does not include, except in the definition "debt", land ordinarily
occupied by an owner for, or as incidental to, residential purposes;



"local trust committee"

has the same meaning as in the

Islands Trust Act

;



"municipal employee"

means a person who




(a)

is employed or appointed by the council of a municipality, by the
board of a regional district, by the trust council, by a francophone
education authority or by the board of a school district, and




(b)

is designated by the council, board, trust council or francophone
education authority, as the case may be, to be a municipal employee;



"municipal official"

means a person who




(a)

is a member of the council of a municipality, the board of a regional
district or a local trust committee, or




(b)

is a member of a board of school trustees constituted under the

School Act

, or is a member of the board of regional trustees of a francophone
education authority,


and includes, except in sections 2 (1), (3) and (5) and 11, a person
for whom nomination papers for election to office as a municipal
official have been filed;


"nominee"
means a person referred to in section 2 (1);


"office"
means the position of a person, other than a corporation, entitling
the person to a fixed or ascertainable stipend or remuneration;



"public employee"

means a person, other than a municipal employee or a judge, who is
designated by the Lieutenant Governor in Council and who is




(a)

employed by the government, or any of its boards, agencies or
commissions, under the

Public Service Act

or by an order of the Lieutenant Governor in Council,




(b)

employed by or appointed to a board, agency or commission if the
employment or appointment requires an order or approval of the
Lieutenant Governor in Council, or




(c)

a member of a board, agency or commission established under an Act or
by order of the Lieutenant Governor in Council;



"trust council"

has the same meaning as in the

Islands Trust Act

;



"written disclosure"

means a written disclosure required to be made and filed under this
Act.






Requirement to make written disclosure




2

(1)


A person who accepts a nomination for election to office as a
Provincial or municipal official must make a written disclosure and
file it with the person's nomination papers.




(2)

Promptly after receiving a written disclosure under subsection (1),
the person receiving it must send it to the appropriate disclosure
clerk.




(3)

A person who is a municipal official, public employee or municipal
employee must make and file a written disclosure between January 1 and
15 in each year in which the person is an official or employee.




(4)

A person who becomes a public employee or a municipal employee must
make and file a written disclosure not later than the 15th day of the
month following the month in which the person becomes a public
employee or a municipal employee.




(5)

A person who ceases to be a municipal official, public employee or
municipal employee, for any reason other than the person's death, must
make and file a written disclosure not later than the 15th day of the
month following the month in which the person ceases to be an official
or employee.




(6)

A person is not required to file more than one written disclosure
during any one month.






Contents and filing of written disclosures: Provincial




3


A written disclosure made by a nominee or public employee must be
filed in the prescribed form with the appropriate disclosure clerk and
must specify all of the following:




(a)

the name of each corporation in which the person or a trustee for the
person holds one or more shares;




(b)

the name of each business situated or carrying on business in British
Columbia and financially remunerating the nominee or public employee
as an owner, part owner, trustee or partner;




(c)

the name of each business located or carrying on business in British
Columbia and financially remunerating the nominee or public employee
for services performed by the person as an employee;




(d)

the name of each organization located in British Columbia and
financially remunerating the nominee or public employee for an office
held by the person that is not disclosed under paragraph (b) or (c);




(e)

the name of the creditor for each debt of the nominee or public
employee;




(f)

a description and location of land located in British Columbia in
which the nominee or public employee, or a trustee for that person,
owns an interest or has an agreement entitling the nominee, public
employee or trustee to acquire an interest.






Contents and filing of written disclosures: municipal




4


A written disclosure by a municipal official or municipal employee
must




(a)

be filed in the prescribed form with the appropriate disclosure clerk,
and




(b)

specify the matters listed in section 3, limited for section 3 (b),
(c), (d) and (f) to the regional district that includes the
municipality, local trust area, school district or francophone school
district for which the official is elected or nominated, or the
employee is employed or appointed.






Other rules about written disclosures




5

(1)


If shares of a corporation carrying more than 30% of the votes for the
election of directors are held, other than by way of security only,




(a)

by a person who is a nominee, municipal official, public employee or
municipal employee, or by a trustee for the person, or




(b)

jointly by a person who is a nominee, municipal official, public
employee or municipal employee, or by a trustee for the person, and
one or more of that person's spouse, child, sibling or parent,


the written disclosure must include a statement, in prescribed form,
setting out the




(c)

name of each of the corporation's subsidiaries, within the meaning of
section 2 (2) of the

Business Corporations Act

,




(d)

type of business ordinarily carried on by the corporation or by the
subsidiary,




(e)

description and location of land of which the corporation, a trustee
for it, or the subsidiary, owns an interest or has an agreement
entitling it to acquire an interest,




(f)

name of the creditor for each debt of the corporation or subsidiary,
except a debt of less than $5 000 payable in full in less than
90 days, and




(g)

name of each corporation in which the corporation, a trustee for it,
or the subsidiary, holds one or more shares.




(2)

For the purposes of sections 3 and 4 and this section, a person is
deemed to be a trustee for a nominee, municipal official, public
employee or municipal employee if the person




(a)

holds a share in a corporation or an interest in land either for the
benefit of the nominee, municipal official, public employee or
municipal employee, or in circumstances where the nominee, municipal
official, public employee or municipal employee is liable to pay,
under the

Income Tax Act

(Canada), income tax on income received on the share or land interest,
or




(b)

has entered into an agreement entitling the person to acquire an
interest in land for the benefit of the nominee, municipal official,
public employee or municipal employee.




(3)

A nominee, municipal official, public employee or municipal employee
may make and file a supplementary written disclosure.






Access to written disclosures




6

(1)


The disclosure clerk with whom a written disclosure is filed under
section 3 or 4 must produce for inspection, on request during
normal business hours, the written disclosure filed by a nominee or
municipal official.




(2)

Subject to subsections (3) and (4) and sections 9, 10 and 11, a person
does not have access to a written disclosure filed by a public
employee or municipal employee.




(3)

On receiving a written disclosure by a public employee, the Provincial
Secretary must send a copy of it to the member of the Executive
Council who, in the Provincial Secretary's opinion, is responsible to
the Executive Council for the administration of the Act for which the
public employee is employed or appointed.




(4)

On receiving a written disclosure by a municipal employee, the
disclosure clerk must send a copy of it to the members of the council,
board or trust council responsible for the employment or appointment
of the municipal employee.






Other disclosure laws




7


This Act is supplementary to and does not affect a duty or obligation
to disclose an interest under any other law.






Proceedings not invalidated




8


The failure of a municipal official, public employee or municipal
employee to comply with this Act does not, of itself, invalidate a
matter, proceeding, vote or contract.






Offence and penalty




9

(1)


A person who, as a municipal official, public employee or municipal
employee, fails to make or file a written disclosure under this Act,
commits an offence.




(2)

A person who commits an offence under subsection (1) is liable on
conviction to a fine of not more than $10 000.






Procedural matters




10

(1)


It is a defence to a charge under section 9 to show that the municipal
official, public employee or municipal employee complied with
section 3 or 4 to the best of the official's or employee's
knowledge or belief.




(2)

If a public employee or municipal employee is prosecuted under
section 9, the Provincial Secretary or appropriate disclosure
clerk, at the request of the court, must send to the court the written
disclosure of the employee.




(3)

If, in a prosecution under section 9, it is alleged that a person was
a trustee for a municipal official, public employee or municipal
employee, the onus is on the municipal official, public employee or
municipal employee to show that the person was not a trustee on the
official's or employee's behalf.




(4)

If a public employee or municipal employee is prosecuted under section
9, the court may make public all or part of the public employee's or
municipal employee's written disclosure.






Liability to payment from profit after failure to disclose




11

(1)


If the Supreme Court, on an application made with the consent of the
Attorney General, finds that




(a)

a municipal official, public employee or municipal employee knowingly
and wilfully contravened this Act by not disclosing an interest, and




(b)

the official or employee made a financial gain resulting from the
official's or employee's involvement in a matter, proceeding, vote or
contract in respect of the interest,


the court may order the municipal official, public employee or
municipal employee to pay to the employee's employer, or to the local
government to which the official is elected, as the case may be, the
amount determined by the court to be the amount of the financial gain.




(2)

If an application under subsection (1) is made in respect of a public
employee, the Provincial Secretary, at the request of the court, must
send to a court the written disclosure of the public employee
involved.




(3)

If an application under subsection (1) is made in respect of a
municipal employee, the disclosure clerk, at the request of the court,
must send to the court the written disclosure of the municipal
employee.




(4)

If the proceedings under this section are against a public employee or
municipal employee, the court may make public all or part of the
employee's written disclosure.






Power to make regulations




12


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
section 41 of the

Interpretation Act

.




