




First Nations Education Act
[SBC 2007] CHAPTER 40


Assented to November 29, 2007






Preamble


WHEREAS the Province entered into the Education Jurisdiction Framework
Agreement with the government of Canada and the First Nations
Education Steering Committee on July 5, 2006;


AND WHEREAS the Province also entered into the British Columbia First
Nation Education Agreement with the First Nations Education Steering
Committee on July 5, 2006;


AND WHEREAS the government of Canada has enacted the


First Nations Jurisdiction over Education in British Columbia Act


, S.C. 2006, c. 10;


AND WHEREAS section 9 (1) of the


First Nations Jurisdiction over Education in British Columbia Act


(Canada) authorizes, to the extent provided by an individual agreement
between the government of Canada and a participating First Nation, the
participating First Nation to enact laws respecting education on First
Nation land;


THEREFORE HER MAJESTY, by and with the advice and consent of the
Legislative Assembly of the Province of British Columbia, enacts as
follows:






Definitions




1


In this Act:



"British Columbia First Nation Education Agreement"

means the agreement entered into between the Province and the First
Nations Education Steering Committee, dated July 5, 2006;


"education"
has the same meaning as in the


First Nations Jurisdiction over Education in British Columbia Act


(Canada);



"Education Jurisdiction Framework Agreement"

means the agreement entered into by the Province, the government of
Canada and the First Nations Education Steering Committee, dated July
5, 2006;



"First Nation land"

has the same meaning as in the


First Nations Jurisdiction over Education in British Columbia Act


(Canada);



"First Nation law"

has the same meaning as in the


First Nations Jurisdiction over Education in British Columbia Act


(Canada);



"First Nations Education Authority"

has the same meaning as in the


First Nations Jurisdiction over Education in British Columbia Act


(Canada);



"individual agreement"

has the same meaning as in the


First Nations Jurisdiction over Education in British Columbia Act


(Canada);



"participating First Nation"

has the same meaning as in the


First Nations Jurisdiction over Education in British Columbia Act


(Canada).






Jurisdiction over education on First Nation land




2


In accordance with the British Columbia First Nation Education
Agreement, the Province recognizes that a participating First Nation
may enact First Nation laws with respect to education provided by the
participating First Nation on First Nation land, to the extent
authorized by an individual agreement between the government of Canada
and that participating First Nation brought into effect by the


First Nations Jurisdiction over Education in British Columbia Act


(Canada).






Assistance with teacher certification and regulation




2.1


If requested by the First Nations Education Authority, the Province
will assist the First Nations Education Authority with the First
Nations Education Authority's certification and regulation of
teachers.






Consultation




3


The Province will consult with the First Nations Education Authority
in any general consultations respecting a proposed change to education
policy, legislation or standards that may materially affect any of the
following:




(a)

an education program offered by a participating First Nation;




(b)

assessments, teacher certification, graduation requirements or
curriculum;




(c)

any matter related to assessments, teacher certification, graduation
requirements or curriculum.






This Act prevails




4


If a provision of this Act is inconsistent or in conflict with a
provision of another Act, the provision of this Act prevails.




Consequential Amendments









[Note: See Table of Legislative Changes for the status of sections
5 to 18.]









Section(s)





Affected Act






5-8



Final Agreement Consequential Amendments Act, 2007




9-11




Independent School Act





12-16




School Act





17-18




Teaching Profession Act









Commencement




19


This Act comes into force by regulation of the Lieutenant Governor in
Council.




