




Forestry Revitalization Act
[SBC 2003] CHAPTER 17


Assented to March 31, 2003






Definitions




1

(1)


In this Act:



"group of licences"

means 2 or more licences that




(a)

are listed in an item of the Schedule under a group name assigned to
them in Column 1 of that item, and




(b)

are each identified by licence number in Column 2 of that item;


"licence"
means a licence that is replaceable under the

Forest Act

and is a




(a)

forest licence,




(b)

tree farm licence, or




(c)

timber sale licence;



"timber licence"

means a timber licence




(a)

that describes an area of Crown land that is not in a tree farm
licence area, and




(b)

is held by a person who is the holder of a licence in a group of
licences;



"ungrouped licence"

means a licence that is




(a)

mentioned in an item of the Schedule separately from other licences,
and




(b)

identified by licence number in Column 2 of that item


but does not include a licence in a group of licences.




(2)

Words and expressions used in this Act but not defined in subsection
(1) or in a regulation under section 13 (2) (a) have the same meanings
as in the

Forest Act

.






Tree farm licence — allowable annual cut defined




1.1


For the purposes of sections 2 (3) and 3 (3),
"allowable annual cut"
in relation to a tree farm licence in a group of licences means the
allowable annual cut available to its holder.






Harvesting rights reduced for timber licences and certain replaceable
licences




2

(1)


The allowable annual cut of an ungrouped licence identified in an item
of the Schedule is reduced by the amount specified in Column 3 of
that item.




(2)

Each area of Crown land described in a timber licence is reduced by
20%.




(3)

The total of the allowable annual cuts of the licences in a group of
licences listed in an item of the Schedule is reduced by the amount
specified in Column 3 of that item opposite the group name,
assigned in Column 1, under which the licences are listed.






Minister's orders




3

(1)


By one or more orders in writing, the minister




(a)

must attribute a reduction in area under section 2 (2) in equal or
unequal portions, specified in the order, to one or more of the timber
licences held by a licensee that is the holder of one or more licences
in a group of licences, and




(b)

for a timber licence to which all or a part of the reduction referred
to in paragraph (a) is attributed, may provide that the reduction is
to be accomplished by means of




(i)

one reduction, or




(ii)

a series of reductions occurring on different dates specified in an
order.




(1.1)

By one or more orders in writing, the minister must specify, for each
of the timber licences referred to in subsection (1), the part of the
area of Crown land described in the timber licence that




(a)

remains after




(i)

the reduction made by section 2 (2), and




(ii)

the attribution under subsection (1), or




(b)

is deleted from the timber licence as a result of the reduction and
attribution.




(2)

By one or more orders in writing, the minister




(a)

must attribute a reduction of allowable annual cut under section 2 (3)
in equal or unequal portions, specified in the order, to one or more
of the licences in a group of licences, and




(b)

for a licence to which all or a part of the reduction referred to in
paragraph (a) is attributed, may provide that the reduction is to be
accomplished by means of




(i)

one reduction, or




(ii)

a series of reductions occurring on different dates specified in an
order.




(3)

The allowable annual cut of a licence to which the minister attributes
all or part of a reduction made under section 2 (3) is reduced by the
amount attributed by the order to that licence.




(4)

By one or more orders in writing, the minister may specify, for each
tree farm licence in a group of licences, the area of Crown land in
the tree farm licence area that




(a)

remains after the reduction made by subsection (3), or




(b)

is deleted from the tree farm licence area as a result of the
reduction.




(5)

A minister's order under this section




(a)

may be made or amended




(i)

on any date in the 3 years after March 31, 2003 if it is an order
referred to in subsection (2),




(ii)

on any date in the 5 years after March 31, 2003 if it is an order
referred to in subsection (1) or (1.1), or




(iii)

at any time, if it is an order referred to in subsection (4),




(b)

may differ for different timber, places or transactions or for
different licences or timber licences, and




(c)

may specify a date for subsection (5.1) that is subsequent to the date
the order is made.




(5.1)

On




(a)

the date when a minister's order under this section is made, if no
subsequent date is specified for this subsection under subsection (5)
(c), or




(b)

the subsequent date, if one is specified for this subsection under
subsection (5) (c),

the minister's order



(c)

is deemed to have come into force on March 31, 2003, and




(d)

is retroactive to the extent necessary to give it effect on and after
March 31, 2003.




(6)

Written notice of an order under this section must be delivered to the
holder of a




(a)

licence, or




(b)

timber licence

that is affected by the order.





Provision of information




4

(1)


The minister, by written notice, may require the holder of an
ungrouped licence, a timber licence or a licence in a group of
licences, at the holder's expense, to provide information that the
minister considers necessary for the purposes of the orders referred
to in section 3.




(2)

At the time and in the form and manner required by the minister, the
holder of an ungrouped licence, a timber licence or a licence in a
group of licences must provide the required information to the
minister.




(3)

A holder of an ungrouped licence, a timber licence or a licence in a
group of licences who contravenes subsection (2) commits an offence.






Deemed amendments to affected timber licences and other licences




5

(1)


An ungrouped licence referred to in section 2 (1) is deemed amended to
reflect the reduction under section 2 (1).




(2)

A timber licence referred to in section 2 (2) is deemed amended to
reflect the minister's orders under section 3 (1) and (1.1).




(3)

A licence referred to in section 2 (3) is deemed amended to reflect
the minister's orders under section 3 (2) and (4).






Compensation




6

(1)


Each holder of an ungrouped licence is entitled to compensation from
the government for a reduction under section 2 (1) of the allowable
annual cut of the ungrouped licence, in an amount equal to the value,
for the unexpired portion of the term of the licence, of the
harvesting rights taken by means of the reduction.




(2)

Each holder of a timber licence is entitled to compensation from the
government in respect of the part, if any, of a reduction in the area
of Crown land described in the timber licence that is made under
section 2 (2) and that is attributed under section 3 (1) to that
licence in an amount equal to the value of the harvesting rights taken
by means of the reduction.




(3)

Each holder of a licence in a group of licences is entitled to
compensation from the government in respect of the part, if any, of a
reduction of the allowable annual cut of the licence that is made
under section 2 (3) and that is attributed under section 3 (2) to that
licence, in an amount equal to the value, for the unexpired portion of
the term of the licence, of the harvesting rights taken by means of
the reduction.




(4)

In addition to the compensation to which the holder of an ungrouped
licence, a timber licence or a licence in a group of licences is
entitled under subsection (1), (2) or (3), the holder is entitled to
compensation from the government in an amount equal to the value of
improvements made to Crown land that




(a)

are, or have been, authorized by the government,




(b)

are not improvements to which section 174 of the

Forest Practices Code of British Columbia Act

applies, and




(c)

are not, or have not been, paid for by the government under the

Forest Act

or the former Act as defined in the

Forest Act

.




(4.1)

Subsection (4) also applies to a holder of a tree farm licence that is
subject to a deletion of Crown land from the tree farm licence area
under section 39.1 of the

Forest Act

, if the deletion




(a)

is in respect of a reduction of allowable annual cut under section 3
(3) of this Act, and




(b)

is made before the date this subsection comes into force.




(5)

An entitlement to compensation under this section vests in the holder
to which it applies on March 31, 2003.




(6)

A dispute between the minister and the holder of an ungrouped licence,
a timber licence or a licence in a group of licences as to the amount
of the compensation to which the holder is entitled under this section
must be submitted to arbitration under the

Arbitration Act

.




(7)

[Repealed 2004-36-131.]






Limit on compensation




7

(1)


In this section,
"compensation"
includes damages.




(2)

The compensation to which the holder of an ungrouped licence, of a
timber licence or of a licence in a group of licences, is entitled
under section 6 is limited to the amount of compensation determined in
relation to that licence under this Act.




(3)

No action lies, and an action or other proceeding must not be brought
or continued, against the government for compensation




(a)

arising out of this Act,




(b)

because of any of the things specified in or under this Act, or




(c)

because of any of the things specified in or under this Act in
combination with any or all of the other things specified in or under
this Act,


in an amount that exceeds the amount limited under subsection (2).




(4)

The

Expropriation Act

does not apply to a reduction under section 2 or 3 of this Act or to
anything done under a minister's order referred to in section 3
of this Act.






Act to be given effect




8

(1)


This Act must be applied to and must be given effect in every action
or other proceeding whether commenced before, on or after March 31,
2003.




(2)

This Act must not be construed as lacking effect, whether retroactive
or otherwise, in relation to any matter because it makes no specific
reference to that matter.






Appropriation for compensation




9


In the 2002-2003 fiscal year of the government, the minister is
authorized to pay not more than $200 million out of the
consolidated revenue fund for the purpose of providing compensation to
which holders of ungrouped licences, of timber licences or of licences
in a group of licences are entitled under section 6.






BC Forestry Revitalization Trust




10

(1)


In this section,

"BC Forestry Revitalization Trust"

refers to the trust




(a)

that has been created under that name by the deed of trust, dated for
reference as of March 17, 2003, between Her Majesty the Queen in
Right of the Province of British Columbia, as represented by the
minister, and the Bank of Nova Scotia Trust Company, the initial
trustee, which deed of trust sets out the terms and conditions of the
BC Forestry Revitalization Trust, and




(b)

the purpose of which, under Part 2 of the deed of trust, is to
mitigate adverse financial impacts suffered by any eligible person, as
described in the deed of trust, as a result of restructuring of the
forestry sector and forestry operations within British Columbia,
arising out of reductions under the
Forestry Revitalization Act
of harvesting rights available to licensees under the

Forest Act

.




(2)

A true copy of the BC Forestry Revitalization Trust must be kept on
file, and made available for public inspection without charge, in each
regional office of the ministry.




(3)

For the purposes of section 24 of the

Perpetuity Act

, the BC Forestry Revitalization Trust is a trust for a specific
noncharitable purpose that creates no enforceable equitable interest
in a specific person.




(4)

In the 2002-2003 fiscal year of the government, the minister must pay
$75 million out of the consolidated revenue fund to the BC
Forestry Revitalization Trust.






Balanced Budget and Ministerial Accountability Act




11


For the purposes of sections 5 (1) and 6 (1) of the

Balanced Budget and Ministerial Accountability Act

in relation to the Minister of Forests for the 2002-2003 fiscal year,
the estimated amount under section 6 (1) of that Act is the sum of the
amounts appropriated




(a)

for the operating expenses for which that minister is responsible in
the main estimates for that fiscal year, and




(b)

under sections 9 and 10 (4) of this Act.






Changes to scheduled items




12


The Lieutenant Governor in Council, by regulation, may amend the
Schedule




(a)

to correct, as necessary, the names of licensees itemized in Column 1
and the licence numbers itemized in Column 2, and




(b)

to take into account




(i)

either




(A)

a consolidation, or




(B)

a subdivision


of a licence under section 19 or 39 of the

Forest Act

,




(ii)

a disposition, as defined in section 53 of the

Forest Act

, of a licence as defined in section 1 of this Act, to or from a
licensee named in the Schedule,




(iii)

an amalgamation of a corporation that is a licensee named in the
Schedule with another corporation, or




(iv)

a change of control, a disposition of control or an acquisition of
control, all as set out in section 54.5 of the

Forest Act

, involving a licensee named in the Schedule

that affects the volume of timber



(v)

set out in Column 3 of the Schedule for a group of licences, or




(vi)

specified in any of the licences held by a licensee listed in Column 1
of the Schedule.






Regulations




13

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
section 41 of the

Interpretation Act

.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations




(a)

defining a word or expression not otherwise defined in this Act, and




(b)

for the purposes of section 6, prescribing respecting value, including
but not limited to




(i)

determining value and defining the components that comprise value,




(ii)

prescribing methods of evaluation for use in determining value,




(iii)

prescribing factors to be taken into account in an evaluation,




(iv)

defining the role of evaluators in a determination of value and
prescribing qualifications for evaluators that are prerequisite to
their participation in the determination of value, and




(v)

prescribing requirements for the selection of arbitrators.




(3)

A regulation made under this Act may




(a)

be made applicable generally or to a specific person, entity, thing or
transaction, or class of persons, entities, things or transactions,




(b)

for the purpose of the regulation, define classes of timber licence
holders and of licence holders, other persons or entities,




(c)

for the purpose of the regulation, define classes of things or
transactions, and




(d)

provide differently for different persons, entities, things or
transactions, or for different classes of persons, entities, things or
transactions.




(4)

In making a regulation under this Act, the Lieutenant Governor in
Council may




(a)

delegate a matter to a person, and




(b)

confer a discretion on a person.




(5)

Regulations under this section may be made retroactive to March 31,
2003 or to a later date the Lieutenant Governor in Council may specify
by regulation and a regulation made retroactive in accordance with
this subsection is deemed to have come into force on the date
specified in the regulation.




Schedule





Item



Column 1

Licensees




Column 2

Licence

Number




Column 3

Allowable

Annual Cut


(cubic metres)



1

Abitibi-Consolidated Company of Canada

A15385
183 125


2

Ainsworth Lumber Co. Ltd.

A18700
29 634


3

Apollo Forest Products Ltd.

A18156
4 186


4

Buffalo Head Forest Products Ltd.

A16884
22 928


5

CANFOR GROUP


1 556 012



Canadian Forest Products Ltd.
A19208




Canadian Forest Products Ltd.
A19213




Canadian Forest Products Ltd.
A19223




Canadian Forest Products Ltd.
A19233




Canadian Forest Products Ltd.
A16824




Canadian Forest Products Ltd.
A16828




Canadian Forest Products Ltd.
A18151




Canadian Forest Products Ltd.
A18154




Canadian Forest Products Ltd.
A18165




Canadian Forest Products Ltd.
A18167




Canadian Forest Products Ltd.
A20009




Canadian Forest Products Ltd.
A40873




Canadian Forest Products Ltd.
TFL30




Canadian Forest Products Ltd.
TFL48




Canadian Forest Products Ltd.
TFL37



6

Carrier Lumber Ltd.

A18158
13 257


7

DOMAN GROUP


685 216



Doman Industries Limited
A16845




Doman-Western Lumber Ltd.
A16847




Doman-Western Lumber Ltd.
A19205




Doman-Western Lumber Ltd.
A19216




Doman-Western Lumber Ltd.
A19228




Doman-Western Lumber Ltd.
A19231




Western Forest Products Limited
A19240




Doman-Western Lumber Ltd.
TFL19




Western Forest Products Limited
TFL25




Western Forest Products Limited
TFL6



8

DUNKLEY GROUP


2 297



Dunkley Lumber Ltd.
A19981




Dunkley Lumber Ltd.
TFL53



9

FEDERATED COOPERATIVES GROUP


30 652



Federated Co-operatives Limited
A18670




Federated Co-operatives Limited
A18680




Federated Co-operatives Limited
TFL33



10

GORMAN BROS. LUMBER GROUP


7 030



Gorman Bros. Lumber Ltd.
A18671




Gorman Bros. Lumber Ltd.
A20173



11

HUSBY FOREST PRODUCTS GROUP


6 109



Husby Forest Products Ltd.
A16869




Sitkana Timber Ltd.
A16871



12

INTERFOR GROUP


579 038



International Forest Products Limited
A16841




International Forest Products Limited
A16850




International Forest Products Limited
A19203




International Forest Products Limited
A19209




International Forest Products Limited
A19220




International Forest Products Limited
A19232




International Forest Products Limited
A19235




International Forest Products Limited
A19238




International Forest Products Limited
A18693




International Forest Products Limited
TFL10




International Forest Products Limited
TFL38




International Forest Products Limited
TFL45




International Forest Products Limited
TFL54



12.1

Lakeland Mills Ltd.

A18163
12 457


13

LIGNUM GROUP


46 972



Lignum Limited
A20003




Lignum Limited
A20018



14

LOUISIANA PACIFIC GROUP


73 678



LP Engineered Wood Products Ltd.
A17645




LP Engineered Wood Products Ltd.
A18669




LP Engineered Wood Products Ltd.
TFL55



15

NEW SKEENA FOREST PRODUCTS GROUP


337 612



New Skeena Forest Products Inc.
A16829




New Skeena Forest Products Inc.
A16831




Kitwanga Lumber Co. Ltd.
A16833




New Skeena Forest Products Inc.
A16835




Orenda Logging Ltd.
A16883




New Skeena Forest Products Inc.
TFL1



16

POPE & TALBOT GROUP


199 299



Pope & Talbot Ltd.
A18969




Pope & Talbot Ltd.
A20207




Pope & Talbot Ltd.
TFL23




Pope & Talbot Ltd.
TFL8



17

RIVERSIDE GROUP


383 982



Riverside Forest Products Limited
A18667




Riverside Forest Products Limited
A18689




Riverside Forest Products Limited
A18697




Riverside Forest Products Limited
A19993




RFP Timber Ltd.
A20015




RFP Timber Ltd.
A20016




Riverside Forest Products Limited
A20019




Riverside Forest Products Limited
A20170




Riverside Forest Products Limited
A20191




Riverside Forest Products Limited
TFL49



18
[Repealed 2004-36-134.]




19

SLOCAN GROUP


813 612



Slocan Forest Products Ltd.
A15384




Slocan Forest Products Ltd.
A15430




Tackama Forest Products Ltd.
A17007




Plateau Forest Products Ltd.
A18157




Slocan Forest Products Ltd.
A18688




Slocan Forest Products Ltd.
A18979




Slocan Forest Products Ltd.
A20011




Slocan Forest Products Ltd.
A20192




Slocan Forest Products Ltd.
A30176




Slocan Forest Products Ltd.
TFL18




Slocan Forest Products Ltd.
TFL03



20

STUART LAKE LUMBER Co. LTD.

A18169
495


21

TEAL CEDAR PRODUCTS GROUP


216 215



Teal Cedar Products Ltd.
A18699




Teal Cedar Products Ltd.
A19201




Teal Cedar Products Ltd.
TFL46



22

TEMBEC GROUP


189 310



Tembec Industries Inc.
A18978




Tembec Industries Inc.
A19040




Tembec Industries Inc.
A20212




Tembec Industries Inc.
TFL14



22.1

The Pas Lumber Company Ltd.

A18171
76 385


23

TIMBERWEST GROUP


33 207



TFL Forest Ltd.
A16870




TFL Forest Ltd.
A20913




TFL Forest Ltd.
A29159




TFL Forest Ltd.
TFL47



24

TOLKO GROUP


246 595



Tolko Industries Ltd.
A18672




Tolko Industries Ltd.
A18686




Tolko Industries Ltd.
A18696




Tolko Industries Ltd.
A20010



25

WELDWOOD GROUP


417 402



Babine Forest Products Limited
A16823




Babine Timber Limited
A16825




Weldwood of Canada Limited
A18172




Weldwood of Canada Limited
A20001




Weldwood of Canada Limited
A20013




Weldwood of Canada Limited
A20017




Weldwood of Canada Limited
TFL5



26

WEST FRASER GROUP


857 934



West Fraser Mills Ltd.
A13840




West Fraser Mills Ltd.
A16826




West Fraser Mills Ltd.
A16827




West Fraser Mills Ltd.
A16830




West Fraser Mills Ltd.
A16882




West Fraser Mills Ltd.
A16885




West Fraser Mills Ltd.
A18162




West Fraser Mills Ltd.
A18690




West Fraser Mills Ltd.
A20002




West Fraser Mills Ltd.
A20005




West Fraser Mills Ltd.
A20020




West Fraser Mills Ltd.
A20021




West Fraser Mills Ltd.
TFL41




West Fraser Mills Ltd.
TFL52



27

WEYERHAEUSER GROUP


1 200 694



Weyerhaeuser Company Limited
A19225




Weyerhaeuser Company Limited
A19244




Weyerhaeuser Company Limited
A18674




Weyerhaeuser Company Limited
A18694




Weyerhaeuser Company Limited
A18698




Weyerhaeuser Company Limited
A18970




Weyerhaeuser Company Limited
TFL15




Weyerhaeuser Company Limited
TFL35




Weyerhaeuser Company Limited
TFL39




Weyerhaeuser Company Limited
TFL44






