




Fraudulent Preference Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 164






Definition




1


In sections 3, 4 and 5,
"creditor"
includes




(a)

a surety and the endorser of a promissory note or bill of exchange who
would, on payment by that person of the debt, promissory note or bill
of exchange for which the suretyship was entered into or endorsement
was given, become a creditor of the person giving the preference
within the meaning of the sections, and




(b)

the beneficiary of a trust or other person to whom liability is
equitable only.






Instruments preferring creditors




2


If a person in insolvent circumstances, unable to pay the person's
debts in full, or knowing that the person is on the eve of insolvency,
voluntarily or by collusion with a creditor, agrees to a judgment
against the person, with or without time to pay, or gives a power of
attorney to do so, with intent to defeat or delay the person's
creditors wholly or in part, or to give one or more of the person's
creditors a preference over other creditors, or over some of them, the
judgment or power is void against the creditors of the person.






Transfers which prejudice creditors




3


Subject to section 6, a disposition of property by a person at a time
when the person is in insolvent circumstances, is unable to pay the
person's debts in full, or knows that the person is on the eve of
insolvency, is void as against an injured creditor, if made




(a)

with intent to defeat, hinder, delay or prejudice creditors or some of
them, and




(b)

to or for a creditor with intent to give the creditor preference over
other creditors or some of them.






Transfers having effect of preference




4


Subject to section 6, if, without intent, the disposition gives the
creditor a preference over some or all of the other creditors, section
3 (b) also applies




(a)

in a proceeding brought to set aside the disposition within, if there
is a document evidencing the disposition registered under an Act,
60 days after registration, or, in other cases, 60 days
after the disposition, as against the creditor injured, or




(b)

if the debtor, within 60 days after the disposition, makes an
assignment for the benefit of the debtor's creditors, as against the
assignee or a creditor authorized to take proceedings to set the
disposition aside.






What transactions to be deemed preferential




5

(1)


A disposition is deemed to give a creditor a preference over the other
creditors under section 4, if the creditor is given, recovers or
is placed in a position to recover payment, satisfaction or security
for all or part of the debtor's indebtedness, greater proportionately
than could be recovered by unsecured creditors generally, or on the
unsecured portion of the liabilities, out of assets of the debtor left
available to judgment.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1)




(a)

a preference is not dependent on the intent or motive of the debtor or
on the disposition being entered into voluntarily or under pressure,
and




(b)

no pressure by a creditor, or want of notice to the creditor alleged
to have been preferred of the debtor's circumstances, or of the effect
of the disposition, protects it except as provided by section 6.






Sales and transfers in good faith




6

(1)


Nothing in sections 3, 4 and 5 applies, if the money paid, or the
property disposed of bears a fair and reasonable relative value to the
consideration, to a sale in good faith, to a payment made in the
ordinary course of business to innocent persons, to a payment to a
creditor, or to a disposition in good faith of property of any kind
made in any of the following circumstances:




(a)

in consideration of a present actual payment in good faith in money;




(b)

by way of security for a present actual advance of money in good
faith;




(c)

in consideration of a present actual disposition in good faith of any
property.




(2)

In case of a valid sale of property, a payment or transfer of some or
all of the consideration by the purchaser to a creditor of the vendor,
under circumstances which would render void the payment or transfer by
the debtor personally and directly, the payment or transfer, valid as
respects the purchaser, is void as respects the creditor to whom it is
made.




(3)

In case a payment has been made which is void under this Act, and
valuable security was given up in consideration of the payment, the
creditor is entitled to have the security restored or its value made
good to the creditor before, or as a condition of, the return of the
payment.




(4)

Nothing in this section prevents a debtor providing for any payment of
money to a creditor if the creditor, because of the payment, has lost
or been deprived of or has in good faith given up a valid security
which the creditor held for the payment of the debt so paid, unless
the value of the security is restored to the creditor, or the
substitution in good faith of one security for another security for
the same debt, so far as the debtor's estate is not lessened in value
to the other creditors.




(5)

Nothing in this section invalidates a security given to a creditor for
an existing debt if, because of the giving of the security, an advance
in money is made to the debtor by the creditor in the belief in good
faith that the advance will enable the debtor to continue the debtor's
business and to pay the debtor's debts in full.






Following proceeds of property fraudulently transferred




7


In the case of a disposition of any property which in law is invalid
against creditors, if the person to whom the disposition was made has
disposed of, realized or collected all or some of the property, the
money or other proceeds or the value of it may be seized or recovered
in an action by a person who would be entitled to seize and recover
the property if it had remained in the possession or control of the
debtor or of the person to whom the disposition was made.






Conveyances void as against registered judgment




8


A disposition which, by the

Fraudulent Conveyance Act

or this Act or by any Act in force in British Columbia relating to
conveyances prejudicial to creditors, is declared to be void, is void
as against the lien and charge created by the registration in any land
title office of a judgment under the

Court Order Enforcement Act

.






Setting aside fraudulent conveyances




9

(1)


If




(a)

a judgment creditor alleges that the debtor or person who has to pay
has made a conveyance or other disposition of any of that person's
land, which conveyance or other disposition is void, as being made to
defeat, hinder, delay, prejudice or defraud creditors, or




(b)

a creditor or assignee for the benefit of creditors alleges that a
disposition is void under sections 2 to 6,


it is not necessary to institute an action to set aside the
disposition.




(2)

In the circumstances described in subsection (1), an application may
be made to the Supreme Court by the judgment or other creditor or
assignee or person entitled to the money, calling on the judgment
debtor or person who is to pay, and the person to whom the conveyance
or other disposition has been made or who has acquired any interest
under it, to show cause




(a)

why the land, or a competent part of it, should not be sold to realize
the amount payable under the judgment, or




(b)

why the disposition or payment should not be set aside and the
property returned or otherwise dealt with as the court may direct.




(3)

In an application under this section, a judgment creditor may claim to
be entitled to register the judgment against




(a)

the land in respect of which the application is made, or




(b)

the judgment debtor's or another person's interest in the land.






Determination of disputed questions




10

(1)


On an application under section 9, the proceedings may be brought
either in a summary way or by the trial of an issue, or by inquiry
before an officer of the court, or by an action or otherwise, as the
court believes necessary or convenient, for the purpose of
ascertaining the truth of the matters in question, and whether the
land, or the debtor or other person's interest in it, is liable for
the satisfaction of the judgment.




(2)

On application by a judgment creditor under section 9, the court
may order that the judgment creditor is entitled to register the
judgment against




(a)

the land in respect of which the application is made, or




(b)

the judgment debtor's or another person's interest in the land.






Certificate of proceedings




11

(1)


A notice of application for an order under section 9 may contain a
description of the land in question, and on filing it with the proper
officer, signed by the applicant's solicitor, a certificate of a court
proceeding may be issued for registration.




(2)

If a motion under subsection (1) is refused in whole or in part, a
certificate for registration of the order may be issued.






Costs in discretion of court




12


The costs of and incident to proceedings authorized by
sections 9, 10 and 11 are in the discretion of the court.




