




Hydro and Power Authority Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 212






Definitions




1


In this Act:


"authority"
means the British Columbia Hydro and Power Authority continued under
this Act;


"commission"
means the British Columbia Utilities Commission continued under the

Utilities Commission Act

;


"generation"
means production by hydraulic, electrical, steam, internal combustion
engine, gas, oil or by any other process;


"judge"
means a justice of the Court of Appeal or a judge of the Supreme
Court;


"owner"
,




(a)

in relation to land, means a person registered in the books of a land
title office as owner of land or of a charge on land, whether entitled
to it in the person's own right or in a representative capacity or
otherwise and includes a lessee in possession for a term of
3Â years or less and a person who is the owner, although
unregistered, of an estate less than the fee simple granted by the
Crown, and




(b)

in relation to other property, includes a mortgagee, person entitled
to a limited estate or interest and a guardian, executor,
administrator or trustee in whom any property or interest in any
property is vested;


"power"
, except in sections 12 (1) and 38 (2), includes energy, light and
heat however developed or produced, and includes electricity and
natural, manufactured or mixed gas, or liquefied petroleum gas;



"power plant"

or
"plant"
includes all land, water, rights to the use of water, buildings,
works, machinery, installations, materials, devices, fittings,
apparatus, appliances, offices, furniture and equipment, vehicles,
tools, stores and supplies, including office stores and supplies,
constructed, acquired or used or adapted, or that, in the opinion of
the authority, might be used or adapted for or in connection with the
generation or supply of power;



"power project"

includes any charter, franchise, privilege or other right, or land,
buildings, plant, machinery or equipment acquired, or proposed to be
acquired, by a person with a view to the generation or supply of
power, or any plans, surveys or data made or assembled with a view to
the generation or supply of power;


"power site"
includes any land, or any lake, river, stream, watercourse or body of
water, water licence or privilege, or reservoir, dam, water storage,
sluice, canal, raceway, tunnel or aqueduct that is used or that, in
the opinion of the authority, might be used for or in connection with
the generation or supply of power;


"supply"
as a noun means reservation, transmission, distribution, capacity to
provide, dealing in and sale, and as a verb has a corresponding
meaning.






Authority continued




2


The corporation known as the British Columbia Hydro and Power
Authority is continued, consisting of persons who are appointed as
directors and who hold office as provided in this Act.






Agent of government




3

(1)


The authority is for all its purposes an agent of the government and
its powers may be exercised only as an agent of the government.




(2)

The Minister of Finance is the fiscal agent of the authority.




(3)

The authority, on behalf of the government, may contract in its
corporate name without specific reference to the government.






Directors




4

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council appoints the directors of the
authority who hold office during pleasure.




(2)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council must appoint one or more of the
directors to chair the authority.




(3)

A chair or other director must be paid by the authority the salary,
directors' fee and other remuneration the Lieutenant Governor in
Council determines.






Powers of directors




5


The directors must manage the affairs of the authority or supervise
the management of those affairs, and may




(a)

exercise the powers conferred on them under this Act,




(b)

exercise the powers of the authority on behalf of the authority, and




(c)

delegate the exercise or performance of a power or duty conferred or
imposed on them to anyone employed by the authority.






Directors' proceedings




6

(1)


The directors may, on behalf of the authority, pass resolutions
thought by them necessary or advisable for the




(a)

conduct of the affairs of the authority, and




(b)

times, places, calling and regulation of meetings of directors and of
committees of directors.




(2)

The authority may exercise any of its powers or duties by resolution
unless otherwise provided in this Act.






Interests of directors




7


A director of the authority must not, directly or indirectly,




(a)

[Repealed 2001-31-1.]




(b)

have an interest in any device, appliance, machine, article, patent or
patented process that is used in the generation or supply of power, or




(c)

have an interest in a contract for the construction of, or doing any
work on, a power plant.






Resolutions




8


A resolution in writing signed by all the directors is as valid and
effectual as if it had been passed at a properly called and
constituted meeting of directors.






Executive committee




9

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may appoint an executive management
committee of the authority that is composed of not more than 5
directors, and that must, subject to the direction of the directors of
the authority, manage the operations of the authority.




(2)

The members of the executive management committee may be paid
remuneration determined by the Lieutenant Governor in Council.






Appointment of employees




10


The authority may, without regard to the

Public Service Act

, appoint a secretary and executive officers, engineers, solicitors,
accountants, employees, consultants and agents it thinks necessary for
its business, and may define their duties, determine their
compensation and provide a system of organization to establish
responsibility and promote efficiency.






Bonds




11


The authority may require bonds of the officers and employees it
designates.






Powers




12

(1)


Subject to this Act and the regulations, the authority has the
capacity and the rights, powers and privileges of an individual of
full capacity and, in addition, has




(a)

the power to amalgamate in any manner with a firm or person, and




(b)

any other power prescribed.




(1.1)

The authority's purposes are




(a)

to generate, manufacture, conserve, supply, acquire and dispose of
power and related products,




(b)

to supply and acquire services related to anything in paragraph (a),
and




(c)

to do other things as may be prescribed.




(1.2)

The authority may not engage in activities or classes of activities
prescribed for the purposes of this subsection without obtaining an
applicable approval as prescribed.




(2)

If the authority




(a)

acquires all of the property, assets or undertaking of a firm or
person,




(b)

assumes the obligations and liabilities of a firm or person,




(c)

amalgamates in any manner with a firm or person, or




(d)

takes over the management, supervision or control of the business of a
firm or person,


the authority or the amalgamated corporation, if there is an
amalgamation, may exercise and perform any power or duty conferred or
imposed on it or on that other firm or person under this or any other
Act for and on behalf of that other firm or person, or the amalgamated
corporation, or with respect to the property or undertaking of that
other firm or person, or the amalgamated corporation, with or without
exercising or performing any other resulting power or duty.




(3)

If the authority amalgamates with a firm or person, this Act applies
as if the amalgamated corporation were the authority.




(4)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may, by order, prescribe the
procedure to be followed in amalgamation of the authority with a firm
or person.




(5)

Despite the

Land Title Act

, if the authority acquires all of the property, assets or undertaking
of, or amalgamates in any manner with, a firm or person,




(a)

all of the interests of that firm or person that are registered in a
land title office are deemed to be registered interests of the
authority or the amalgamated corporation, as the case may be,




(b)

the registrar of that land title office must accordingly make all
necessary amendments to the register, and




(c)

the amendments constitute registration of the interests under the

Land Title Act

in favour of the authority or the amalgamated corporation, as the case
may be.




(6)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations necessary for
carrying out subsection (5).




(7)

Fees must not be paid for anything done under subsection (5) or (6).




(8)

Nothing in this section relieves the authority from any requirement of
the

Utilities Commission Act

that applies to the authority under section 32 (7).




(9)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council, by order, may designate any
agreement entered into or to be entered into by the authority that the
Lieutenant Governor in Council considers relates to the provision of
support services to or on behalf of the authority.




(10)

For the purposes of subsection (9),
"support services"
means services that support or are ancillary to the activities of the
authority from time to time, and includes services related to metering
for, billing and collecting fees, charges, tariffs, rates and other
compensation for electricity sold, delivered or provided by the
authority, but does not include the production, generation, storage,
transmission, sale, delivery or provision of electricity.




(11)

Despite the common law and the provisions of this or any other
enactment, if an agreement is designated under subsection (9),




(a)

the authority is deemed to have, and to have always had, the power and
capacity to enter into the agreement,




(b)

the agreement and all actions of the authority taken in accordance
with the provisions of the agreement are authorized, valid and deemed
to be required for the public convenience and necessity,




(c)

the authority is deemed to have, and to have always had, the power and
capacity to carry out all of the obligations imposed under, and to
exercise all of the rights, powers and privileges granted by, the
agreement according to its terms,




(d)

the agreement is binding on and enforceable by the authority,
according to the agreement's terms, and




(e)

subject to subsection (12), the authority is not required to obtain
any approval, authorization, permit or order under the

Utilities Commission Act

in connection with the agreement or any actions taken in accordance
with the terms of the agreement, and the commission must not prohibit
the authority from taking any action that the authority is entitled or
required to take under the terms of the agreement.




(12)

Nothing in subsection (11) (e) precludes the commission from
considering the costs incurred, or to be incurred, in relation to an
agreement designated under subsection (9) when establishing the
revenue requirements and setting the rates of the authority.




(13)

[Repealed 2004-23-14.]






Repealed




13


[Repealed 2004-23-15.]






Repealed




14-15


[Repealed 2009-34-6.]






Expropriation




16

(1)


The authority may, for any purpose related to the exercise of its
powers,




(a)

expropriate any property, power site, power project or power plant,




(b)

enter, remain on, take possession of and use any property,




(c)

on land that it expropriates,




(i)

erect, make or place on the land any structure, installation,
excavation or power plant, and




(ii)

flood and overflow the land and accumulate and store water on it, and




(d)

require and compel a person who generates or supplies power to enter
into an agreement to supply to the authority as much of that power as
the authority requires.




(2)

If land is expropriated under subsection (1), the

Expropriation Act

applies.




(3)

If the authority exercises a power under subsection (1) that does not
constitute the expropriation of land requiring approval under the

Expropriation Act

, it must obtain the approval of the minister before the power is
exercised.




(4)

If the authority expropriates property under subsection (1) other than
land, the authority must notify the Attorney General and, if required
by the Attorney General, file a notice describing the property at a
place designated by the Attorney General.




(5)

Despite any other Act, the property referred to in subsection (3) that
is expropriated vests in the authority free and clear of all
encumbrances




(a)

when the notice is filed under subsection (4), or




(b)

if no filing is requested, when the Attorney General receives the
notification under subsection (4).




(6)

After property vests under subsection (5), the authority must serve on
the owner of the property a notice containing a description of the
property sufficient to identify it, together with a declaration of
readiness to pay compensation in an amount to be agreed on or to be
determined under subsection (9).




(7)

If an owner is absent from British Columbia or is unknown or cannot be
served, the Supreme Court may, on the application of the authority,
order that the notice under subsection (6) be published in a manner
and for a time that the court thinks proper, and, on publication, the
owner is deemed to have been served with the notice.




(8)

If the authority exercises its powers under subsection (1), other than
in relation to the expropriation of land, it must pay compensation for




(a)

the interest, property, matter or thing expropriated, entered on or
used, and




(b)

damages to any property that directly result from the expropriation,
entry or use.




(9)

If the authority and a person entitled to compensation fail to agree
on the amount of compensation payable under subsection (8), the amount
must be determined by the Supreme Court.






Compulsory supply of power




17

(1)


If the authority is unable to agree with a person required or
compelled to supply power under section 16 (1) (d) on the amount of
power available for the authority's use or the price to be paid for it
or on any matter relating to supplying the power desired, the
commission must, on application of either party, after a hearing,
determine the amount of power, if any, to be supplied and the price to
be paid for it, and also any other matter on which agreement has not
been reached.




(2)

A determination of the commission under subsection (1) is final.






Release on expropriation




18

(1)


If any power of expropriation is exercised by the authority, the
authority must, by order in writing, release the person whose property
has been expropriated from any obligation relating to the purchase or
supply of power or to the purchase or sale of anything required for a
power plant.




(2)

An order made under subsection (1) is binding on all parties
concerned.




(3)

An order made under subsection (1) has effect only in regard to
matters connected with the property expropriated.






Application of expropriation power




19


The power of expropriation conferred on the authority extends to
property, plants, rights, powers and privileges, even though




(a)

they are or may be deemed to be devoted to public use, or




(b)

the owner possesses the power of taking land compulsorily,


but the authority does not have the power to take by expropriation
land or a plant of a municipality that may be used for the generation
or supply of power.






Power of entry, etc.




20

(1)


The authority may, by itself, or by its engineers, surveyors, agents,
contractors, subcontractors or employees, for any purpose relating to
the use, construction, maintenance, safeguarding or repair of its
plants or projected plants, or for better access to them and without
the consent of the owner, enter any land and




(a)

survey and take levels of it and make the borings, tests or sink the
trial pits it thinks necessary,




(b)

cut down any trees that, in its opinion, might, in falling or
otherwise, endanger the conductors, wires or equipment or other plant
of the authority, or that may obstruct the running of survey lines,
and




(c)

make or use all roads, trails, bridges, wharves and other works and
facilities, whether permanent or temporary, that may be required for
the convenient passing to and from its survey lines, plants and
projected plants.




(2)

Despite anything in this Act, if a claim is made against the authority
for damage to crops, gardens, shrubs, trees or other growing things,
or other damage caused by or incidental to the exercise of powers
conferred by this section, if the amount of compensation for damage is
not agreed on, compensation must be determined by the Supreme Court.






Borrowing by authority




21

(1)


Subject to the approval of the Lieutenant Governor in Council, the
authority, for any of the purposes of the authority, may




(a)

borrow sums of money the authority thinks are required, and




(b)

issue notes, bonds, debentures and other securities bearing interest
at rates and payable as to principal and interest in currencies and at
places and at times and in a manner the authority determines.




(2)

The directors of the authority may, by resolution, delegate any of
their powers or the powers of the authority under this section to any
director or officer of the authority.




(3)

A resolution under this section that is approved by the required
number of directors by telephone or any other means of communication
and that is confirmed in writing or other graphic communication is as
valid and effectual as if it had been passed at a meeting of the
directors properly called and constituted.




(4)

The notes, bonds, debentures and other securities of the authority may
be made redeemable in advance of maturity at times and at prices the
directors of the authority determine at the time of the issue.




(5)

For this section, the purposes of the authority, without limiting any
other provision of this Act, include the following:




(a)

payment, refunding, exchange or renewal of all or any part of a loan
raised or securities issued by the authority, except to the extent
that a sinking fund is available for the payment of the loan or
securities, and a recital or declaration in the resolution or minutes
of the authority authorizing the issue of securities as to the amount
of any sinking fund so available is conclusive evidence of the fact;




(b)

payment of all or any part of a loan, liability or bonds, debentures
or other securities, payment of which is guaranteed or assumed by the
authority;




(c)

payment of any other liability or indebtedness of the authority;




(d)

carrying out any of the powers referred to in this Act, providing in
whole or in part for expenditures of the authority made or to be made
in connection with them, reimbursing the authority for any of those
expenditures and repaying all or part of any temporary borrowings of
the authority for any of those purposes;




(e)

the exercise of a power, right, function or duty conferred or imposed
on the authority under this or any other Act or law.




(6)

The authority may borrow and may issue under subsection (1) in amounts
that will realize the net sum required by the authority for its
purposes, and a recital or declaration in the resolution or minutes of
the authority authorizing the issue of securities to the effect that
the issue of the authorized securities is being made for the purposes
of the authority and that the amount is necessary to realize the net
sum required for the purposes of the authority is conclusive evidence
of the fact.




(7)

Subject to the approval of the Lieutenant Governor in Council, on
terms and conditions thought advisable, the authority may dispose of
the notes, bonds, debentures and other securities of the authority,
either at the par value of them or at less or more than the par value,
and may charge, pledge, hypothecate, deposit or otherwise deal with
the securities as collateral security.




(8)

Subject to the approval of the Lieutenant Governor in Council on terms
and conditions thought advisable, the authority may exchange notes,
bonds, debentures or other securities of the authority for securities
of another corporation




(a)

in an amount or amounts equal to or greater or smaller than the amount
or amounts of the notes, bonds, debentures or other securities of the
authority,




(b)

bearing interest payable at the same or different time or times as the
interest payable under the notes, bonds, debentures or other
securities of the authority,




(c)

bearing interest at the same or a greater or smaller rate as or than
the interest payable under the notes, bonds, debentures or other
securities of the authority,




(d)

due on the same or on an earlier or later date as or than the notes,
bonds, debentures or other securities of the authority, and




(e)

callable whether or not the notes, bonds, debentures or other
securities of the authority are callable and on the same or different
terms and conditions as or than the notes, bonds, debentures or other
securities of the authority if they are callable.




(9)

Securities of the authority, dealt with as collateral security,




(a)

when redelivered to the authority or its nominees on or after payment,
satisfaction, release or discharge, in whole or in part, of any
indebtedness or obligation for which the securities may have been
given as collateral, or




(b)

when the authority again becomes entitled to the securities,


may be treated by the authority as unissued and, subject to the
approval of the Lieutenant Governor in Council,




(c)

may be issued, reissued, charged, pledged, hypothecated, deposited,
dealt with as collateral security, sold or otherwise disposed of on
terms and conditions the directors of the authority think advisable,
or




(d)

at the option of the authority, may be cancelled, at which time,
subject to the approval of the Lieutenant Governor in Council, fresh
securities to the same amount and in the same form may be issued in
place of them with the same consequences, and on the issue or reissue
a person entitled to them has the same rights and remedies as if the
securities had not been previously issued,


but the borrowing power of the authority is deemed not to have been
affected by the issuance, reissuance, pledging, depositing or selling
of securities under this section.




(10)

The notes, bonds, debentures and other securities of the authority
must be in a form determined by the directors of the authority or on
behalf of the authority by the Minister of Finance as fiscal agent for
the authority.




(11)

The notes, bonds, debentures and other securities must bear the seal
of the authority and, together with any coupons attached, must bear
the signatures in writing of




(a)

the chair and another director or officer, or




(b)

other directors or officers as the authority may determine.




(12)

The directors of the authority may provide that the seal of the
authority may be engraved, lithographed, printed or otherwise
mechanically reproduced on any security to which it is to be affixed.




(13)

The seal of the authority, when mechanically reproduced, has the same
effect as if manually affixed, and any mechanically reproduced
signature or signatures are for all purposes valid and binding on the
authority even though the person whose signature is reproduced has
ceased to hold office before the date of the security or before its
issue.




(14)

Subject to the approval of the Lieutenant Governor in Council, the
authority may also borrow by way of temporary loans from any person
the sums on the terms, for the purposes and on the conditions the
directors of the authority determine, by way of bank overdraft or line
of credit, or by the pledging as security for the temporary loans of
notes, bonds, debentures or other securities of the authority pending
the sale of them or in place of selling them, or in whatever other
manner the directors of the authority determine.




(15)

Any cheques, promissory notes or other instruments necessary or
desirable in connection with the borrowing of money and the obtaining
of advances by way of temporary loans as set out in subsection (14)
may be executed in whatever manner the directors of the authority
determine.




(16)

The Minister of Finance, as fiscal agent of the authority, may arrange
all details and do, transact and execute all deeds, matters and things
that are required during the negotiation of a loan or for placing a
loan.




(17)

Money raised by the authority under this section must be paid by the
authority into the fund established under sectionÂ 27.




(18) to (23)

[Repealed 2004-23-15.]






Authorization to borrow from Canada Pension Plan Investment Fund




22


Despite anything in this Act, the authority may, in the resolution
under sectionÂ 21, authorize the Minister of Finance or, with the
concurrence of the Minister of Finance, authorize the Minister of
Finance of Canada to determine any matter required to be determined
under sectionÂ 21 for




(a)

borrowing money from the Canada Pension Plan Investment Fund
established under the

Canada Pension Plan

, and




(b)

issuing and selling to the Receiver General and Minister of Finance of
Canada for the credit of the Canada Pension Plan Investment Fund
debentures as security for the loans.






Guarantee of principal and interest




23

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council, for and on behalf of the
government, may guarantee the payment of the principal and interest of
and on any of the following:




(a)

notes, bonds, securities, debentures, debenture stock, loans or
obligations issued by the authority or the payment of which is assumed
by the authority;




(b)

notes, bonds, securities, debentures, debenture stock or loans issued
by a firm or person if




(i)

all of the property, assets or undertaking of the firm or person has
been acquired by the authority,




(ii)

the obligations and liabilities of the firm or person has been assumed
by the authority,




(iii)

the firm or person is amalgamated with the authority, or




(iv)

the management, supervision or control of the business of the firm or
person has been taken over by the authority.




(2)

The guarantee under subsection (1) must bear the manual, engraved,
lithographed or printed signature of the Minister of Finance, or the
manual, engraved, lithographed or printed signature or signatures of
the other officer or officers of the Ministry of Finance of British
Columbia designated by the Lieutenant Governor in Council.




(3)

The engraved, lithographed or printed signature of the Minister of
Finance or of any other officer is for all purposes the signature of
that person, and is binding on the government even though the person
whose signature is reproduced may not have held office at the date of
the notes, bonds, debentures or other securities or at the date of the
delivery of them, and despite any change in any of the persons holding
the office between the time when the signature is affixed and the date
of delivery of the notes, bonds, debentures or other securities.




(4)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make arrangements for the
supply of money necessary to fulfill the requirements of a guarantee,
and may advance the amount necessary out of the consolidated revenue
fund.




(5)

In the hands of a holder of a note, bond, security or debenture, a
guarantee signed in accordance with subsection (2) is conclusive
evidence that this section has been complied with, and the government
becomes liable for the payment of the principal and interest of the
note, bond, security or debenture guaranteed, according to its tenor.






Guarantees respecting leases




24

(1)


The government may, on terms approved by the Lieutenant Governor in
Council, guarantee payments of the authority under a lease made by or
to the authority.




(2)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may authorize




(a)

the Minister of Finance, or




(b)

an officer of the Ministry of Finance,


to sign the guarantee on behalf of the government, and the signature
of that person on the guarantee is conclusive proof that this section
has been complied with.




(3)

Money required to be paid by the government in respect of a guarantee
given under this section must be paid out of the consolidated revenue
fund without an appropriation other than this Act.






Repealed




25


[Repealed 2008-10-34.]






Repealed




26


[Repealed 2004-23-15.]






All funds paid into one fund




27

(1)


All funds, including borrowings, income and revenue, that come into
the hands of the authority, whether as agent, trustee, owner or
otherwise, form one fund, out of which the authority must make any and
all expenditures necessary for its purpose.




(2)

The authority must account for the fund and payments from the fund in
its annual report as provided in this Act.






Financial reporting and auditing




28

(1)


The Minister of Finance may direct the Comptroller General of British
Columbia to examine and report to the Treasury Board on any or all of
the financial and accounting operations of the authority.




(2)

Unless the Auditor General is appointed in accordance with the

Auditor General Act

as the auditor of the authority, the authority must appoint an auditor
to audit the accounts of the authority at least once each year.




(2.1)

The costs of the audit referred to in subsection (2) must be paid by
the authority.




(3)

[Repealed 2004-23-15.]






Repealed




29


[Repealed 2004-23-15.]






Liability of authority




30

(1)


The authority may sue and be sued in its own corporate name for any
right or obligation acquired or incurred by it on behalf of the
government as if the right or obligation had been acquired or incurred
on its own behalf and also in respect of any liabilities in tort to
which it is made subject by this Act.




(2)

The authority is liable in tort for the damages for which if it were a
private person of full age and capacity it would be subject




(a)

for torts committed by its servants or agents, and




(b)

for a breach of duty that attaches to the ownership, occupation,
possession or control of property.




(3)

An action or other proceeding does not lie against the authority or
against a servant or agent of the authority or against the government
for




(a)

any claim against the authority or a servant or agent of the authority
if a pension or compensation has been paid or is payable out of the
consolidated revenue fund or out of any funds administered by an agent
of the government for the death, injury, damage or loss in respect of
which the claim is made, or




(b)

an act or omission of a servant or agent of the authority unless the
act or omission would, apart from this section, have given rise to a
cause of action in tort against that servant or agent or that
servant's or agent's personal representative.




(4)

In all proceedings to which the authority is a party, the court may
pronounce a judgment or make an order or direction as to costs in
favour of or against the authority.






Nuisance actions




31


Despite section 30, the authority is not liable in an action based on
nuisance or on the rule in Rylands v. Fletcher, unless the authority
was negligent.






Application of other statutes




32

(1)


Despite any specific provision in any Act to the contrary, except as
otherwise provided under this Act, the authority is not bound by any
statute or statutory provision of British Columbia.




(2)

The authority is an employer under the

Workers Compensation Act

.




(3)

Money owing, payable or accruing due from the authority as salary or
wages to any of its members or employees may be attached under the

Court Order Enforcement Act

the same as money owing, payable or accruing due from any person to
the Crown, and for that purpose that Act applies to the authority.




(4)

Money, as defined in section 25 of the

Family Maintenance Enforcement Act

, that is owing, payable or accruing due from the authority to any of
its members or employees may be attached or garnished under
sectionÂ 15, 18 or 24 of that Act, and that Act applies to the
authority.




(5)

Service of all orders, notices and processes required to be served on
the authority as garnishee or attachee must be effected by personal
service on the secretary of the authority or by leaving the document
or documents at the secretary's office.




(6)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may, by regulation, make applicable
to the authority any statutory provision.




(7)

The following Acts and provisions apply to the authority:




(a)

the

Auditor General Act

;




(b)

[Repealed 1998-30-93.]




(b.1)

the

Budget Transparency and Accountability Act

;




(c)

section 32 and Division 5 of Part 5 of the

Business Corporations Act

;




(c.01)

the

Clean Energy Act

;




(c.1)

the

Climate Change Accountability Act

;




(c.2)

the

Greenhouse Gas Industrial Reporting and Control Act

;





(
c.3
)


the


Low Carbon Fuels Act


;




(d)

[Repealed 2001-30-16.]




(e)

the

Debtor Assistance Act

;




(f)

[Repealed 2003-46-22.]




(f.1)

the

Employer Health Tax Act

;




(g)

the

Employment Standards Act

;




(h)

the

Environmental Assessment Act

;




(i)

the

Environmental Management Act

;




(j)

the

Expropriation Act

;




(k)

sections 4.1, 9.1, 53, 53.1, 54, 56, 56.3, 56.4, 63, 77, 79, 79.1 and
79.3 of the

Financial Administration Act

;




(k.1)

the

Financial Information Act

;




(l)

the

Forest Act

;




(m)

the

Geothermal Resources Act

;




(m.1)

the

South Coast British Columbia Transportation Authority Act

;




(m.2)

the

Speculation and Vacancy Tax Act

;




(n)

the

Heritage Conservation Act

;




(o)

the

Human Rights Code

;




(p)

the

Insurance (Vehicle) Act

;




(q)

the

Labour Relations Code

;




(q.1)

sections 93.1 and 93.3 of the

Land Act

;




(r)

the

Limitation Act

;




(s)

the

Ombudsperson Act

;




(s.01)

the

Pay Transparency Act

;




(s.1)

the

Pension Benefits Standards Act

;




(t)

the

Integrated Pest Management Act

;




(u)

the

Petroleum and Natural Gas Act

;




(v)

the

Property Transfer Tax Act

;




(v.1)

the

Public Sector Employers Act

;




(w)

sections 3 and 5 of the

Railway Act

;




(w.1)

the

Safety Standards Act

in respect of electrical equipment and regulated work respecting
electrical equipment as those terms are defined under that Act;




(w.2)

section 19.2 of the

Safety Standards Act

;




(x)

the

Utilities Commission Act

, except sections 50, 51Â (c), 52, 57Â (2), 95 andÂ 98;




(y)

[Repealed 2003-53-154.]




(z)

the

Water Sustainability Act

except sections 17, 19 (3), 32, 33, 35, 42, 45, 88, 127 (1) (t) and
128;




(z.1)

the

Wildfire Act

.




(8)

[Repealed 2010-22-55.]






Certificate deemed to be granted




33


For the purposes of the

Utilities Commission Act

and the

Gas Utility Act

, the authority with respect to works existing on SeptemberÂ 11,
1980, is deemed to have been granted an energy operation certificate
under the

Utilities Commission Act

and is deemed to be authorized and empowered under the

Gas Utility Act

to carry on business as a gas utility throughout British Columbia.






Taxation




34

(0.1)


In this section,
"improvements"
,
"land"
and
"owner"
have the same meaning as in section 1 (1) of the

School Act

.




(0.2)

The

Assessment Act

applies to the authority for the purposes of this section.




(1)

With the approval of the Lieutenant Governor in Council, the authority
may make annual grants to the Surveyor of Taxes with respect to a
rural area and to municipalities and other local governments within
the territorial jurisdiction of which the authority generates,
transmits or sells electric power or otherwise carries on business.




(2)

Subject to subsection (2.1) and unless an order of the Lieutenant
Governor in Council provides otherwise, land and improvements in
respect of which the authority is an owner must be dealt with as
follows:




(a)

the land and improvements must be assessed under the

Assessment Act

;




(b)

the net taxable value of the land and improvements is subject to
school tax as defined in section 1Â (1) of the

School Act

;




(c)

the net taxable value of the land and improvements must be included
for the purpose of calculating a Provincial grant under the

School Act

to a board as defined in Part 8 of that Act.




(2.1)

Land referred to in subsection (2) is exempt from assessment and
taxation under that subsection unless




(a)

the authority owns the land in fee simple, or




(b)

the land is located within the treaty lands of a taxing treaty first
nation or within NisgÌ±a'a Lands.




(3)

An order of the Lieutenant Governor in Council under subsection (2)
may be made for any period, whether before, on or after, or partly
before and partly after April 6, 1968.






Grants to taxing treaty first nations




34.1

(1)


In this section,
"taxing treaty first nation"
has the same meaning as in the

Treaty First Nation Taxation Act

.




(2)

With the approval of the Lieutenant Governor in Council, the authority
may make annual grants to a taxing treaty first nation with respect to
the taxing treaty first nation's treaty lands within which the
authority generates, transmits or sells electric power or otherwise
carries on business.




(3)

The

Assessment Act

and the

Assessment Authority Act

apply to the authority for the purposes of making annual grants under
subsection (2) with respect to the treaty lands of a taxing treaty
first nation.




(4)

Grants under subsection (2) may be made for any taxation year for
which a treaty first nation is or was a taxing treaty first nation,
whether the taxation year occurs before or after, or partly before or
after, the date this section comes into force.




(5)

Subsection (4) is retroactive to the extent necessary to give it full
force and effect with respect to any taxation year in which a treaty
first nation is or was a taxing treaty first nation.






Grants to NisgÌ±a'a Lisims Government




34.2

(1)


In this section,

"Real Property Tax Co-ordination Agreement"

has the same meaning as "property tax agreement" in section 10.01 of
the

NisgÌ±a'a Final Agreement Act

.




(2)

With the approval of the Lieutenant Governor in Council, the authority
may make annual grants to the NisgÌ±a'a Nation with respect to NisgÌ±a'a
Lands within which the authority generates, transmits or sells
electric power or otherwise carries on business.




(3)

An annual grant under subsection (2) must be made in accordance with
the terms of the Real Property Tax Co-ordination Agreement.




(4)

The

Assessment Act

and

Assessment Authority Act

apply to the authority for the purposes of making annual grants under
subsection (2).




(5)

Grants under subsection (2) may be made for any taxation year in which
the NisgÌ±a'a Nation imposes taxes in accordance with the Real Property
Tax Co-ordination Agreement, whether the taxation year occurs before
or after, or partly before or after, the date this section comes into
force.




(6)

Subsection (5) is retroactive to the extent necessary to give it full
force and effect with respect to any taxation year described in that
subsection.






Directives




35


Despite the

Utilities Commission Act

, the Lieutenant Governor in Council may issue directives directing
the authority in a fiscal year to pay to the government an amount
specified in the directive and may issue directives directing the
authority in a fiscal year to pay to the persons constituting one or
more classes of the authority's past or present customers an amount
specified in the directive.






Pension arrangements




36

(1)


With the approval of the Lieutenant Governor in Council, the authority
may




(a)

establish and maintain a fund for the payment of superannuation
allowances or allowances on the death or disability of directors and
employees,




(b)

make regulations providing for




(i)

contributions to the fund by the authority and directors and
employees,




(ii)

the terms and conditions on which superannuation allowances or other
allowances may be payable, and




(iii)

the persons to whom allowances may be paid,




(c)

make regulations providing for




(i)

the continuation or amendment of existing superannuation or retirement
plans or arrangements or for the integration of former plans with any
plan established under this section,




(ii)

meeting or removing any difficulty arising out of the concurrent
administration of the plan established under this section and the plan
or plans in effect at the time that subparagraph (i) becomes
effective, and




(iii)

preserving and giving effect to the rights of all persons accrued or
accruing under former plans,


and the regulations may be applicable generally or to particular
cases, and




(d)

[Repealed 1999-44-61.]




(e)

amend any regulation made under this section.




(2)

Despite this or any other Act, the matters respecting the
establishment and maintenance of a fund for the payment of
superannuation allowances or allowances on the death or disability of
directors or employees under subsection (1), including




(a)

contributions to the fund by the authority and directors and
employees,




(b)

the terms and conditions on which superannuation allowances or other
allowances may be payable, and




(c)

the persons to whom allowances may be paid,


must not be the subject of a collective agreement between the
authority and its employees.




(3)

Despite subsection (1), the regulations for a superannuation plan may
provide for payment to the authority from the amount standing to the
credit of a contributor or former contributor sums necessary to make
good any default in accounting for any money belonging to the
authority that was entrusted to the contributor or any debt that may
be due by the contributor to the authority.




(4)

If a contributor dies while in the service of the authority, a payment
from the fund to a person nominated by the contributor or to the
contributor's spouse is not subject to the control of the creditors of
the contributor and does not form part of the contributor's estate.




(5)

Despite any requirement or agreements existing and applicable to any
superannuation or retirement plan or scheme for the benefit of any
officers or employees of the authority or corporation formed by
amalgamation under this Act or a partnership formed under this Act,
the Lieutenant Governor in Council may rescind the appointment of any
trustee under any plan or scheme and appoint a trustee or trustees in
place of that trustee.




(6)

The trustee appointed by the Lieutenant Governor in Council under
subsection (5) need not be a trust company.






Pension: further provision




37


Any superannuation plan established under section 36 may include the
directors and employees of any entity




(a)

that is or has been a subsidiary of or associated with the authority,
and




(b)

that is declared by resolution of the executive management committee
to be or to have been, for any period, part of the authority for the
purposes of superannuation.






Joint management agreement




37.1

(1)


In this section:


"agreement"
means the joint management agreement referred to in subsection (2);



"pension fund"

means the British Columbia Hydro and Power Authority Pension Fund
established under the pension plan;



"pension plan"

means the British Columbia Hydro and Power Authority Pension Plan
established under B.C. Reg. 109/99.




(2)

Despite section 36 (2), the authority may enter into a joint
management agreement with the trade unions that represent its
employees for the joint trusteeship of all or part of the pension plan
and pension fund, or for any other matter relating to the pension plan
or pension fund on which agreement is reached.




(3)

The authority and the trade unions must establish appropriate
mechanisms whereby the views and interests of the authority's
non-unionized employees and retirees are fairly represented in the
negotiation of the agreement.




(4)

The agreement must not require any change to the pension plan or
pension fund that would render the pension plan ineligible for
registration under the

Pension Benefits Standards Act

or the

Income Tax Act

(Canada).




(5)

When the agreement is entered into, the authority must adopt those
plan rules and other instruments that are necessary to amend and
continue the pension plan and pension fund in accordance with the
agreement and, thereafter, the pension plan and pension fund




(a)

must be administered as provided by the agreement,




(b)

may be amended as provided by the agreement, and




(c)

are not subject to sectionsÂ 36 andÂ 37 of this Act.




(6)

Despite subsection (2), the non-unionized employees and the retirees
of the authority not represented by the trade unions may benefit from
and be made subject to the agreement, and the authority and the trade
union representatives have the power to enter into the agreement on
behalf of those persons and, if entered into, the agreement is binding
on those persons.






Power to make regulations




38

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
sectionÂ 41 of the

Interpretation Act

.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations




(a)

prescribing powers for the purposes of section 12 (1),




(b)

prescribing purposes of the authority for the purposes of section 12
(1.1), and




(c)

for the purposes of section 12 (1.2), prescribing activities, classes
of activities and approval requirements.




