




Insurance (Vehicle) Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 231




Part 0.1 — Definitions, Application and Entitlements





Definitions and application




1

(1)


In this Act:


"action"
includes proceedings brought in the civil resolution tribunal as an
accident claim under the

Civil Resolution Tribunal Act

;



"activities of daily living"

means the following activities:




(a)

preparing personal meals;




(b)

managing personal finances;




(c)

shopping for personal needs;




(d)

using public or personal transportation;




(e)

performing housework to maintain a place of residence in acceptable
sanitary condition;




(f)

performing personal hygiene and self-care;




(g)

managing personal medication;




(h)

any other prescribed activity;


"applicant"
means a person who applies for insurance;


"benefits"
, except in sections 83 and 84, means benefits payable under Part 1
and any amounts payable under Part 10;



"blanket certificate"

means a class of certificate issued under the plan to a person
referred to in section 35.1 (2);



"certificate"

means a certificate of universal compulsory vehicle insurance issued
under Part 1 or the regulations under that Part;


"commission"
means the British Columbia Utilities Commission continued under
section 2 of the

Utilities Commission Act

;



"corporation"

means the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia continued by the

Insurance Corporation Act

;


"coverage"
means the right conferred on a person by this Act, the plan or an
optional insurance contract to be indemnified against liability for,
or compensated for, death, bodily injury, loss or damages;



"driver's certificate"

means a class of certificate issued under the plan to a person who
may, under the

Motor Vehicle Act

, obtain a driver's licence;



"health care"

means anything that is done for a therapeutic, preventative,
palliative, diagnostic, cosmetic or other health-related purpose;



"health care practitioner"

means any of the following:




(a)

a medical practitioner;




(b)

a nurse practitioner;




(c)

a person in a prescribed class of persons who is entitled, under a
prescribed enactment, to practise a health profession as defined in
the

Health Professions Act

;




(d)

a person in a prescribed class of persons who provides health care;


"highway"
has the prescribed meaning;


"insurance"
means the undertaking by one person to indemnify another person
against loss or liability for loss in respect of a certain risk or
peril to which the object of the insurance may be exposed, or to pay a
sum of money or other thing of value on the happening of a certain
event;



"insurance money"

means the amount payable by an insurer under the plan or an optional
insurance contract;


"insurer"
means




(a)

the corporation, or




(b)

the person who undertakes, agrees or offers to provide insurance under
an optional insurance contract;



"leased motor vehicle"

means a motor vehicle leased or rented to a lessee under an agreement
in writing and in the ordinary course of the owner's or lessor's
business;


"lessee"
has the same meaning as in section 86 (3) of the

Motor Vehicle Act

;


"lessor"
has the same meaning as in section 86 (3) of the

Motor Vehicle Act

;


"licence"




(a)

in relation to a driver or operator of a vehicle, means a licence or
permit issued under the

Motor Vehicle Act

authorizing the holder of a licence of a designated class to drive or
operate a vehicle of the category designated for that class, and
includes a learner's licence, and




(b)

in relation to a vehicle, means a licence or permit issued in respect
of a vehicle under the

Motor Vehicle Act

or the

Commercial Transport Act

or a licence or permit for a vehicle issued under any other Act;



"motor vehicle"

means a motor vehicle as defined in the

Motor Vehicle Act

;


"occupant"
has the prescribed meaning;


"operate"
has the prescribed meaning;



"optional insurance contract"

means a contract of vehicle insurance other than vehicle insurance
provided under the plan, and includes




(a)

a binding oral agreement, and




(b)

a contract that provides insurance for a vehicle for which, or for the
use or operation of which, a permit or licence is not required under
the

Motor Vehicle Act

, if the contract provides that this Act applies;


"owner"
means the person in whose name a vehicle is registered and licensed
under the

Motor Vehicle Act

or the

Commercial Transport Act

;



"owner's certificate"

means a class of certificate issued under the plan to an owner;


"plan"
means the plan of universal compulsory vehicle insurance referred to
in section 2 and operated by the corporation under Part 1, 10 or 11
and the regulations under those Parts;


"policy"
means the instrument evidencing an optional insurance contract and
includes an interim receipt, a renewal receipt or a binder, or writing
evidencing the contract, whether sealed or not;


"premium"
means money paid or to be paid by an insured or by an applicant for
insurance to an insurer for the issue of a certificate or policy;



"rehabilitation"

means the restoration, in the shortest time practicable, of an injured
person to the highest level of gainful employment or self-sufficiency
that, allowing for the permanent effects of the injured person's
injuries, is, with medical and vocational assistance, reasonably
achievable by the injured person;


"resident"
has the prescribed meaning;



"superintendent"

means the superintendent under the

Financial Institutions Act

;



"third party liability insurance coverage"

means insurance against liability arising out of




(a)

bodily injury to or the death of a person, or




(b)

loss of or damage to property,


caused by a vehicle or the use or operation of a vehicle;


"trailer"
means a trailer as defined in the

Motor Vehicle Act

;



"universal compulsory vehicle insurance"

means universal compulsory vehicle insurance provided under the plan;


"vehicle"
means motor vehicle or trailer;



"vehicle insurance"

means insurance




(a)

against liability arising out of




(i)

bodily injury to or the death of a person, or




(ii)

loss of or damage to property,


caused by a vehicle or the use or operation of a vehicle,




(b)

against loss of or damage to a vehicle or the loss of use of a
vehicle, or




(c)

against loss arising from bodily injury or death of an insured caused
only by




(i)

a vehicle, or




(ii)

the use or operation of a vehicle,

but does not include



(d)

insurance relating to




(i)

a vehicle for which, or for the use or operation of which, a permit or
licence is not required under the

Motor Vehicle Act

unless the contract of insurance provides that this Act applies, or




(ii)

any operation, use or loss of use of a vehicle excluded by regulation,




(e)

reinsurance undertaken by one insurer for liability for loss or damage
assumed by another insurer,




(f)

insurance only against one or more of the following:




(i)

loss of or damage to a vehicle while in or on described premises;




(ii)

loss of or damage to property carried in or on a vehicle;




(iii)

liability for loss of or damage to property carried in or on a
vehicle, or




(g)

insurance solely of the interest of a person who has a lien on, or has
as security legal title to, a vehicle and who does not have possession
of the vehicle;



"vehicle liability policy"

means a certificate or a policy evidencing insurance against liability
arising out of




(a)

bodily injury to or the death of a person, or




(b)

loss of or damage to property,


caused by a vehicle or the use or operation of a vehicle.




(2)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations that




(a)

include any kind or class of vehicle, as defined in the

Motor Vehicle Act

, within the definition of vehicle for the purposes of this Act or the
regulations, or




(b)

exclude any kind or class of vehicle, as defined in the

Motor Vehicle Act

, from the definition of vehicle for the purposes of this Act or the
regulations.




(3)

The

Insurance Act

does not apply to insurance to which this Act applies.




(4)

Section 5 of the

Offence Act

does not apply to this Act or the regulations.






Exemption of government vehicles




1.01

(1)


This Act and the regulations, other than Parts 10 and 11 and the
regulations under those Parts, do not apply to vehicles owned, leased
or operated by Canada or the government of another province, territory
or state, but apply to vehicles owned and operated or leased and
operated by the government of British Columbia and to the vehicles'
drivers.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), the corporation may negotiate and conclude an
agreement with a government excluded under that subsection to bring
any or all vehicles owned, leased or operated by that government in
British Columbia within the operation of the Parts of this Act that
would otherwise not apply.






Extraprovincial undertaking




1.02

(1)


In this section,
"extraprovincial undertaking"
means a work or undertaking for the transport of passengers or goods
by motor vehicle or trailer, connecting British Columbia with another
province of Canada, or extending beyond the limits of British
Columbia.




(2)

The provisions of this Act and the regulations respecting the
requirement for vehicle insurance do not apply to an owner or operator
of an extraprovincial undertaking who gives proof of financial
responsibility under section 106 (2) (b) of the

Motor Vehicle Act

.






Entitlements




1.03

(1)


An insured who is entitled to benefits under Part 1 respecting an
accident is not entitled to benefits under Part 10 respecting the same
accident.




(2)

An insured who is entitled to benefits under Part 10 respecting an
accident is not entitled to benefits under Part 1 respecting the same
accident.




Part 1 — Universal Compulsory Vehicle Insurance





Definitions




1.1


In this Part:


"accident"
means an accident arising out of the use or operation of a vehicle;



"personal information"

has the same meaning as in the

Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act

.






Application of this Part




1.2

(1)


This Part applies to




(a)

insurance under the plan that takes effect on or after the date this
section comes into force,




(b)

claims under that insurance, and




(c)

insureds and the corporation in relation to that insurance.




(2)

Benefits under this Part are payable by the corporation regardless of
who is responsible for the accident.






Corporation to provide universal compulsory vehicle insurance




2


If, under the

Insurance Corporation Act

, the Lieutenant Governor in Council authorizes the corporation to
operate the plan of universal compulsory vehicle insurance, the
corporation must operate the plan of universal compulsory vehicle
insurance in accordance with this Act and the regulations.






Repealed




3-6


[Repealed 2003-94-6.]






Plan




7

(1)


Subject to section 2 and compliance with this Act and the regulations,
the corporation must administer a plan of universal compulsory vehicle
insurance providing coverage under a motor vehicle liability policy
required by the

Motor Vehicle Act

, of at least the amount prescribed, to all persons




(a)

whether named in a certificate or not, to whom, or in respect of whom,
or to whose dependants, benefits are payable if bodily injury is
sustained or death results,




(b)

whether named in a certificate or not, to whom or on whose behalf
insurance money is payable, if bodily injury to, or the death of
another or others, or damage to property, for which the person is
legally liable, results, or




(c)

to whom insurance money is payable, if loss or damage to a vehicle
results


from one of the perils mentioned in the regulations caused by a
vehicle or its use or operation, or any other risk arising out of its
use or operation.




(2) to (4)

[Repealed 2003-94-7.]






Repealed




8


[Repealed 2003-94-8.]






Application of other Acts




9

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may, by regulation, provide that
provisions of the

Insurance Corporation Act

or regulations do not apply to the plan established under this Act.




(2) and (3)

[Repealed 2003-94-9.]






Repealed




10


[Repealed 1997-29-20.]






Combined forms and information




11

(1)


Certificates and applications for insurance forms established by the
corporation may be incorporated in the appropriate application forms,
certificates of registration, registration cards, licences, permits or
windshield stickers prescribed for use or used under the

Motor Vehicle Act

,

Commercial Transport Act

or

Passenger Transportation Act

.




(2)

The corporation may require an applicant for insurance or an insured
under the plan to provide statements and reports, relating to or
affecting the operation of the plan, that




(a)

include the content required by the corporation, and




(b)

are in a form established by the corporation.




(2.1)

For the purposes of administering the plan, the corporation may
require an applicant or an insured under the plan to provide
information, including personal information, about himself or herself
or about any person named, in an application for a certificate, as a
driver of the vehicle specified in the certificate.




(3)

The corporation may require every driver or owner, or, in the case of
a leased motor vehicle, the lessee, of a vehicle that




(a)

is required to be registered and licensed in British Columbia, and




(b)

is involved in an incident out of which arises injury or death to a
person or damage to property,


to provide to the corporation information required by the corporation
relating to the incident, in a form established by the corporation.




(4)

The corporation may require an insured to




(a)

provide notices, proofs of claim, proofs of loss, reports and
statements that include the content required by the corporation, and




(b)

comply with any other method of making and proving claims that is
established by the corporation.






Repealed




12-13


[Repealed 2003-94-11.]






Salvage




14


The corporation may acquire and hold for the benefit of the plan the
salvage to which it becomes entitled




(a)

on settlement of a claim under the plan, and




(b)

as provided by the regulations.






Agreements




14.1

(1)


The corporation may enter into agreements that it considers necessary
or advisable with a person or entity to advance the purposes of this
Act.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the corporation may enter into an
agreement with the government for the purposes of section 14.2.






Costs of health-related services




14.2

(1)


In this section and section 14.3,

"costs of health-related services"

means costs of health-related services arising from bodily injury or
death arising out of an accident.




(2)

The corporation must reimburse the government for costs of
health-related services.




(3)

The amount to be reimbursed under subsection (2) is the amount set out
in an agreement between the government and the corporation, which
amount may be some or all costs of health-related services incurred by
the government over the period or periods subject to the agreement.






Validation




14.3

(1)


In this section:


"agreement"
means an agreement, whether in written form or not, entered into
between the corporation and the government in or after 1973 under
which payments were made, including, but not limited to, the
following:




(a)

the agreement dated January 21, 1988, entered into by the corporation
and British Columbia, as represented by the Minister of Health;




(b)

the agreement dated April 1, 1994, entered into by the corporation and
British Columbia, as represented by the Minister of Health;


"payments"
means payments made under an agreement in relation to the costs of
health-related services.




(2)

Despite any decision of a court to the contrary made before or after
this section comes into force, all payments made by the corporation
before this section comes into force that would have been validly made
had they been made under an agreement made under section 14.1 for
the purposes of section 14.2, as those sections read on the date
this section comes into force, are conclusively deemed to have been
validly made, and all payments received by the government under that
agreement are conclusively deemed to have been validly received.




(3)

For certainty, payments referred to in subsection (2) are conclusively
deemed to have been legitimate costs incurred by the corporation used
to establish premiums for certificates.




(4)

This section is retroactive to the extent necessary to give full force
and effect to its provisions and must not be construed as lacking
retroactive effect in relation to any matter because it makes no
specific reference to that matter.






Repealed




15-16


[Repealed 2003-94-11.]






Limitation




17


An action or proceeding by an insured against the corporation in
respect of benefits, insurance money or indemnification payable under
the plan must be commenced within one year after the happening of the
loss or damage or after the cause of action arose, or as the
regulations may provide in the case of any coverage, but not
afterwards.






Financial responsibility in other provinces




18

(1)


For the purpose of availing to persons insured under the plan or part
of the plan financial responsibility of the kind and form required
under the laws of another province, state or territory, the
corporation may execute and file with the public authorities in that
place, as required,




(a)

a power of attorney authorizing acceptance of service of notice or
process for itself or its insured in an action or proceeding arising
out of the accident in the province, state or territory,




(b)

an undertaking to appear in the action or proceeding, or




(c)

an agreement to submit to the jurisdiction of the court in the
province, state or territory and not to set up a defence in the action
or proceeding that would not be available to an insurer under third
party liability insurance coverage issued there,


and the corporation may do all acts necessary and incidental to the
execution and filing of the documents referred to in paragraphs (a) to
(c).




(2)

If the corporation receives notice of process in an action or
proceeding arising out of an accident that occurred outside British
Columbia for which the insured may be liable, and it has, within 5
days of receiving the notice, either personally delivered to the
insured or forwarded to the insured by registered mail to the last
known address of the insured a copy of the notice, the insured is
liable to reimburse the corporation on demand the amount the
corporation has paid by reason of this section that it would not
otherwise be liable to pay, and the corporation may enforce the right
by action in court.




(3)

If the insured is liable to reimburse the corporation for an amount
that the corporation has paid by reason of this section that it would
not otherwise be liable to pay and 30 days have elapsed after demand
has been made by the corporation for reimbursement, section 20 (12),
(13), (14) and (15) applies.




(4)

In an action in another province of Canada against the corporation, or
against a person insured with third party liability insurance
coverage, arising out of an accident in that province, the corporation
must appear and must not, as to third party liability insurance
coverage, set up a defence to a claim under a certificate, including a
defence as to the limit or limits of liability, that might not be set
up if the claim were under vehicle insurance that provides third party
liability insurance coverage issued in that province.






Relief from forfeiture




19

(1)


[Repealed 2003-94-13.]




(2)

If a forfeiture under section 75 would appear inequitable, the
corporation may relieve a person affected by it from the forfeiture of
all or any insurance money.




(3)

The corporation must relieve an insured from a forfeiture of the
benefits under section 75 that it considers equitable if, as a result
of an accident, the insured dies or suffers a loss of function of mind
or body that renders the insured permanently incapable of engaging in
any occupation for wages or profit.






Repealed




19.1-19.2


[Repealed 2003-94-14.]






Uninsured vehicles




20

(0.1)


In this section and section 24,
"non-vehicle property"
means property other than




(a)

a vehicle and its contents, and




(b)

permanently attached equipment as defined in section 170.




(1)

In this section:


"claimant"
means a person who alleges that the person has a right of action
against an uninsured motorist for damages arising out of loss of or
damage to non-vehicle property caused by or arising out of the use or
operation of a motor vehicle, but does not include a person who is
entitled to bring an action against the corporation under
section 24;


"court"
includes the civil resolution tribunal in respect of accident claims
under the

Civil Resolution Tribunal Act

;



"motor vehicle"

includes a trailer, but does not include




(a)

a motor vehicle or trailer in respect of which there exists proof of
financial responsibility given in the manner provided for by sections
106 to 113 of the

Motor Vehicle Act

, or




(b)

a motor vehicle or trailer owned by, or by an agent of, the Crown in
right of any other province or of Canada;


"owner"
, in relation to a motor vehicle, includes a lessee;



"uninsured motor vehicle"

means a motor vehicle used or operated or owned by an uninsured
motorist;



"uninsured motorist"

means a person who uses or operates a motor vehicle on a highway in
British Columbia when the person is not insured under third party
liability insurance coverage that provides indemnity in a prescribed
amount, not less than $100 000, against liability imposed by law
arising out of loss of or damage to non-vehicle property caused by or
arising out of the use or operation of a motor vehicle, and includes
the owner of a motor vehicle that is used or operated on a highway in
British Columbia when the owner is not so insured.




(2)

A claimant may apply to the corporation, in the prescribed form, for
payment of the damages to which the claimant claims to be entitled.




(3)

The corporation must, on receiving an application under subsection
(2), send by registered mail a notice of the application, in the
prescribed form, to the uninsured motorist and, if the uninsured
motorist is not the owner of the uninsured motor vehicle, to the owner
of the uninsured motor vehicle, at the last addresses for them
according to the records of the corporation.




(4)

A notice sent under subsection (3) is deemed to have been received on
the eighth day after mailing.




(5)

If a notice is sent under subsection (3), the corporation may




(a)

settle with or consent to judgment in favour of the claimant on behalf
of and in the name of a person to whom the notice was sent, but if
that person replies to the corporation within the time limited by the
notice, denying liability, the corporation is not entitled to recover
from that person an amount paid by it until it has recovered a
judgment against that person as provided in subsection (11), or




(b)

require the claimant to bring or continue an action against all
persons who may be liable to the claimant for the damages claimed.




(6)

If, in an action brought by a claimant, an uninsured motorist




(a)

fails to file a response to civil claim or to appear in person or by
counsel at the trial or assessment of damages,




(b)

consents to the entry of judgment against the uninsured motorist, or




(c)

does or fails to do anything that entitles the claimant to take
default proceedings,


the corporation must not make a payment to the claimant under this
section unless notice of the failure, consent or act of default has
been given to the corporation in time to enable the corporation to
rectify it and the corporation fails to intervene in the action within
30 days after receiving notice of the failure, consent or act of
default.




(7)

If the corporation receives notice under subsection (6), it may
intervene in the action and, on behalf of and in the name of the
uninsured motorist, whether or not the uninsured motorist is an
infant, take any steps that the uninsured motorist might have taken in
the action, and anything done by the corporation is deemed to be done
by the uninsured motorist, but the failure of the uninsured motorist
to comply with an order of the court or rule of court does not
prejudice the corporation in a proceeding it may take in the action.




(8)

A judgment by consent against an uninsured motorist who is an infant
must not be entered without the approval of the court.




(9)

If the corporation enters into a settlement with a claimant or a
claimant obtains a judgment against an uninsured motorist in
accordance with this section and the claimant has otherwise complied
with this section and the regulations, the corporation may, subject to
the regulations, pay all or part of the settlement or judgment.




(10)

The corporation must not, without the consent of a person to whom a
notice was sent under subsection (3), enter into a settlement on
behalf of that person or consent to judgment against that person, for
an amount in excess of the amount to be paid to the claimant by the
corporation under subsection (9).




(11)

The corporation, on making a payment to a claimant, is subrogated to
the claimant's rights against any other person liable to the claimant
for the damages claimed and may bring an action to recover the damages
against the other person in its name or in the name of the claimant,
but neither a settlement under subsection (5) (a) nor a consent to
judgment under that subsection limits the defences that an uninsured
motorist may raise against the corporation.




(12)

Subject to subsection (5), the corporation may, in addition to any
other remedy it may have, send a notice demanding reimbursement for
damages or costs or both together with any interest that it has paid
to a claimant to




(a)

the uninsured motorist,




(b)

the owner of the uninsured motor vehicle, if the owner of the
uninsured motor vehicle is also liable for the damages caused, or




(c)

both of the persons referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b),


at the last addresses for them according to the records of the
corporation.




(13)

The corporation may agree to accept payment in instalments from a
person indebted to it under this section.




(14)

If instalments to be paid by a person under an agreement referred to
in subsection (13) are in arrears, the corporation may




(a)

suspend the licence, permit or corresponding number plates of a motor
vehicle or trailer owned by the person, or




(b)

refuse to issue to the person a driver's licence or a licence, permit
or corresponding number plates of a motor vehicle or trailer owned by
the person.




(15)

A person who is indebted to the corporation under this section may, on
notice to the corporation, apply to the Supreme Court for an order
that the person be permitted to pay the indebtedness in instalments in
amounts and at times determined by the court, and on an order being
made, subsections (13) and (14) apply to




(a)

the corporation refusing to issue the person's driver's licence or a
motor vehicle licence, a permit or corresponding number plates for a
motor vehicle or trailer owned by the person, and




(b)

the suspension of the person's motor vehicle licence, permit or
corresponding number plates for a motor vehicle or trailer owned by
the person.




(16)

The corporation, on application by a person who would otherwise be a
claimant but whose right of action has been extinguished because the
person has, without the consent of the corporation, entered into a
settlement with the uninsured motorist or the owner of the uninsured
motor vehicle or both, may pay to the person that part, if any, of the
amount owing and unpaid under the settlement that the corporation
considers appropriate in the circumstances.




(17)

The corporation must not consider an application by a claimant under
this section if any other motorist who is liable for all or part of
the claimant's damages is insured against liability in respect of
those damages, but the corporation, if it considers it appropriate in
the circumstances, may waive the requirements of this subsection in
respect of any one or more of the persons against whom the claimant
has a cause of action.




(18)

The corporation must not pay a claimant who is not a resident an
amount in excess of the amount that a resident would recover under the
same circumstances from a similar fund in the jurisdiction in which
the claimant ordinarily resides.






Repealed




21


[Repealed 2003-94-16.]






Corporation to be notified of action




22

(1)


Every person commencing an action for damages caused by a vehicle or
the use or operation of a vehicle in British Columbia must




(a)

serve the corporation with a copy of the notice of civil claim in the
manner provided for serving a defendant in the action, and




(b)

file proof of the service in the court in which the action is pending.




(2)

A further step in the action must not be taken until the expiration of
8 days after the filing.






Repealed




23


[Repealed 2003-94-18.]






Remedy for damage in hit and run accident




24

(1)


Subject to subsection (1.1), if damage to non-vehicle property arises
out of the use or operation of a vehicle on a highway in British
Columbia and




(a)

the names of both the owner and the driver of the vehicle are not
ascertainable, or




(b)

the name of the driver is not ascertainable, and the owner is not
liable to an action for damages for the non-vehicle property damage,

any person who has a cause of action



(c)

against the owner or the driver, as referred to in paragraph (a), or




(d)

against the driver, as referred to in paragraph (b),


in respect of the non-vehicle property damage may bring an action
against the corporation as nominal defendant, either alone or as a
defendant with others alleged to be responsible for the non-vehicle
property damage.




(1.1)

In an action in which the names of both the owner and the driver of
the vehicle are not known or ascertainable, recovery for non-vehicle
property damage is limited to the amount by which the damages exceed
the prescribed amount.




(2)

Proceedings must not be brought against the corporation as nominal
defendant under this section unless the person bringing them gives
written notice to the corporation as soon as reasonably practicable
and in any event within 6 months after the accident that caused the
non-vehicle property damage.




(3)

If, after an action referred to in subsection (1) has been commenced,
it is alleged that the non-vehicle property damage was caused by or
contributed to by another vehicle but




(a)

the names of both the owner and the driver of the vehicle are not
ascertainable, or




(b)

the name of the driver is not ascertainable, and the owner is not
liable to an action for damages for the non-vehicle property damage,


the corporation may be added as a nominal defendant on the application
of any party and must be added as a nominal defendant on its own
application.




(4)

In an action against the corporation as nominal defendant, the
corporation may deny generally the allegations in respect of the
unidentified vehicle and its owner and driver, and need not set out
the facts on which it relies.




(5)

In an action against the corporation as nominal defendant, a judgment
against the corporation must not be given unless the court is
satisfied that




(a)

all reasonable efforts have been made by the parties to ascertain the
identity of the unknown owner and driver or unknown driver, as the
case may be, and




(b)

the identity of those persons or that person, as the case may be, is
not ascertainable.




(6)

If the identity of the unknown owner or driver is ascertained before
judgment is granted in an action against the insurer as nominal
defendant, then, despite the limitation period in the

Motor Vehicle Act

, that owner or driver must be added as a defendant in the action in
substitution for the corporation, subject to the conditions the court
may specify.




(7)

The corporation may, at any stage, compromise and settle the claim of
a person entitled to commence an action under this section.




(8)

On judgment against the corporation as nominal defendant under this
section and expiration of the time limited for appeal, or on the
compromise and settlement of a claim under this section, the
corporation must pay toward satisfaction of the judgment or claim an
amount that the corporation is authorized to pay under this Act and
the terms, conditions and limits of the plan.




(9)

If, under this section, a judgment has been obtained against the
corporation as nominal defendant or the corporation has settled a
claim, the corporation may apply




(a)

to the court where the judgment has been obtained, or




(b)

if a claim has been settled, to the court that would have had
jurisdiction to entertain an action for the recovery of damages to the
amount of the settlement


for an order certifying that a person was, at the time of the
accident, the owner or driver of the vehicle that caused the
non-vehicle property damage in respect of which the judgment was
obtained or settlement made.




(10)

If the court hearing an application under subsection (9) is satisfied
on the evidence that the person named in the application was at the
time of the accident the owner, driver or both of the vehicle involved
in that accident, it may make the order applied for, unless it is
satisfied that the person would not have been liable for damages if
the person had appeared and defended the action or, in the case of a
claim settled before action, in an action that might have been brought
to enforce the claim, or it may direct the trial of an issue.




(11)

If, under subsection (10), a court makes an order or directs the trial
of an issue, the person certified by the court is liable to the
corporation for all amounts paid by the corporation pursuant to any
judgment or settlement under this section.




(11.1)

Subsection (11) applies whether or not the driver of the vehicle is
named in an unexpired driver's certificate and whether or not the
vehicle is specified in an applicable unexpired certificate.




(11.2)

If subsection (11) applies, the amount for which the person certified
is liable is a debt due and owing to the corporation and section 20
(12), (13) and (15) applies.




(12)

The amount paid by the corporation to a claimant who is not a resident
is limited to the lesser of




(a)

the amount limited by this Act, and




(b)

the amount that a resident could recover under the same circumstances
from a similar fund in the jurisdiction in which the claimant
ordinarily resides.




(13)

In this section:


"court"
includes the civil resolution tribunal in respect of accident claims
under the

Civil Resolution Tribunal Act

;


"owner"
, in relation to a motor vehicle, includes a lessee.






Repealed




25-26


[Repealed 2003-94-20.]






Accident report




27


A person receiving an accident report under section 67 of the

Motor Vehicle Act

must, as soon as reasonably practicable after a request for it by the
corporation, mail or deliver a copy to the corporation.






Medical reports for accidents before April 1, 2019




28

(1)


If any of the following persons attends to, diagnoses, treats or is
consulted by a person injured in an accident occurring in British
Columbia before April 1, 2019, the following person must, whenever the
corporation requests, provide the corporation, as soon as reasonably
practicable, with a report of the injuries and their diagnosis and
treatment and a prognosis, in any form or manner established by the
corporation:




(a)

a medical practitioner;




(a.1)

a nurse practitioner;




(b)

a person entitled to practise as a chiropractor under an enactment;




(c)

a person entitled to practise dentistry under an enactment;




(d)

a person entitled to practise physical therapy under the

Health Professions Act

;




(e)

an employee of a hospital as defined in the

Hospital Act

.




(2)

The form of the report and the manner of providing the report may be
different for different persons referred to in subsection (1) (a) to
(e) and may be different depending on the purpose for which the report
is requested.






Health care reports for accidents on or after April 1, 2019




28.1

(1)


This section applies to a health care practitioner who provides health
care to a person injured in an accident occurring in British Columbia
on or after April 1, 2019.




(2)

A health care practitioner referred to in subsection (1) must provide
the corporation with a report that includes the following information,
to the extent that the information is known by the health care
practitioner:




(a)

the nature and extent of the injured person's injuries;




(b)

the injured person's diagnosis;




(c)

the injured person's condition at the time health care was provided;




(d)

the treatment provided or recommended by a health care practitioner;




(e)

the injured person's prognosis.




(3)

The report referred to in subsection (2) must be provided




(a)

as soon as reasonably practicable after a request by the corporation,
and




(b)

in any form or manner established by the corporation.




(4)

The form of the report and the manner of providing the report may be
different for different health care practitioners and may be different
depending on the purpose for which the report is requested.






Employment information




29


An employer of a person who claims benefits, or on behalf of whom
benefits are claimed, from the corporation must, whenever the
corporation requests, provide to the corporation as soon as reasonably
practicable




(a)

a statement of the person's earnings in the form established by the
corporation, and




(b)

any other prescribed information that relates to the person's
employment.






Superintendent's records




30


Despite any Act or law to the contrary, the corporation has access to
all books, documents, records, reports and other things, and to all
facilities of, belonging to or available to the superintendent under
the

Motor Vehicle Act

, the ministry of the minister responsible for the administration of
the

Transportation Act

or the Passenger Transportation Board, as the corporation may consider
necessary to better carry out this Act and regulations.






Repealed




30.1


[Repealed 2003-94-25 as re-enacted 2006-28-26.]






Excess payments and deduction of premiums




31

(1)


If the corporation has paid out money in excess of the amount
authorized by the Act or the regulations, it may recover that excess
by action as a debt due to the corporation.




(2)

The corporation may deduct from the payment of insurance money the
amount of any premium.






Repealed




32


[Repealed 2003-94-27.]






Application for insurance




33

(1)


Subject to the regulations, at the time of or before applying for




(a)

any class or kind of licence or permit for a motor vehicle or trailer
or their use or operation under the

Motor Vehicle Act

or

Commercial Transport Act

, or




(b)

registration of a notice of transfer under section 17 of the

Motor Vehicle Act

,


the applicant must apply for the corresponding certificate, and, at
the same time, must pay to the person receiving the application the
premium for the applicable certificate that, having been assessed
against the applicant, is due and owing.




(2)

The application for a certificate under subsection (1) may be made




(a)

to a person appointed as agent of the corporation under this Act, or




(b)

at the head office or a branch office of the corporation,


unless the Lieutenant Governor in Council, by regulation, otherwise
directs.






Premiums for certificates




34

(1)


The corporation may establish premiums for a certificate in accordance
with this section.




(2)

A premium for a certificate, other than a driver's certificate, may be
based on one or more of the following:




(a)

any region, as established by the corporation, in which a vehicle in
respect of which insurance is provided by the certificate is used or
kept;




(b)

in relation to a vehicle in respect of which insurance is provided by
the certificate,




(i)

the type or class of the vehicle,




(ii)

any use of the vehicle, or




(iii)

any distance over which the vehicle has been or may be operated;




(c)

the amount of third party liability insurance coverage provided by the
certificate;




(d)

the relationship between the applicant and any driver, and between any
drivers, of a vehicle that is specified in the certificate;




(e)

whether the applicant or an employee of the applicant and any driver,
or whether any drivers, of a vehicle that is specified in the
certificate, are members of the same household;




(f)

the failure of the applicant to name, in an application for the
certificate, a person who drives a vehicle that is specified in the
certificate during the period of coverage under the certificate;




(g)

the following information related to the applicant and any driver of a
vehicle in respect of which insurance is provided by the certificate:




(i)

the number of years the person has been driving;




(ii)

the nature of the person's business and, if applicable, the number and
type or class of employees employed in that business;




(iii)

any jurisdiction in which the person has held a driver's licence and
the class of driver's licence the person held;




(iv)

the type and number of number plates issued to the person;




(v)

the details of any accidents involving the person or a vehicle insured
by the person occurring within a period established by the
corporation;




(vi)

the number, nature and kind of violations or offences referred to in
subsection (3) (b) committed by the person, if any, within a period
established by the corporation;




(vii)

the number, nature and kind of suspensions or prohibitions from
driving referred to in subsection (3) (c) imposed on the person, if
any, within a period established by the corporation;




(h)

the number or value, or both, of the vehicles in respect of which
insurance is provided under the certificate;




(i)

in relation to a vehicle insured as part of a fleet, claims made and
premiums paid under insurance provided by the corporation;




(j)

prescribed criteria;




(k)

any other criteria approved by the commission.




(3)

A premium for a driver's certificate may be based on one or more of
the following:




(a)

the details of any accidents involving the driver occurring within a
period established by the corporation;




(b)

the number, nature and kind of violations or offences committed by the
driver, within a period established by the corporation, in
contravention of any of the following:




(i)

the

Motor Vehicle Act

or the

Commercial Transport Act

;




(ii)

a municipal bylaw relating to the regulation of vehicular traffic;




(iii)

a provision of the

Criminal Code

relating to the operation of a vehicle;




(iv)

a law or a provision of a law of a jurisdiction other than British
Columbia that is similar to a law or provision referred to in
subparagraph (i), (ii) or (iii);




(c)

the number, nature and kind of suspensions or prohibitions imposed on
the driver, within a period established by the corporation, under the

Motor Vehicle Act

or a similar law relating to suspensions or prohibitions from driving
of a jurisdiction other than British Columbia;




(d)

prescribed criteria;




(e)

any other criteria approved by the commission.




(4)

The premium payable for a certificate is that established and assessed
by the corporation for the certificate issued.




(5)

A premium must be established by the corporation before the beginning
of the period for which it is effective.




(6)

The corporation may establish premiums for a certificate in a manner
that ensures that an increase or decrease in the premiums, if any,
from one period to the next, will be phased in as approved by the
commission.






Repealed




35


[Repealed 2018-19-10.]






Blanket certificate




35.1

(1)


Universal compulsory vehicle insurance may be provided by a blanket
certificate under which, in the prescribed circumstances, the
universal compulsory vehicle insurance provided by the blanket
certificate applies instead of universal compulsory vehicle insurance
provided by another certificate.




(2)

A blanket certificate may be issued to




(a)

a person who holds a licence under the

Passenger Transportation Act

that includes a transportation network services authorization, or




(b)

a person in a prescribed class of persons.




(3)

Universal compulsory vehicle insurance provided by a blanket
certificate applies only if universal compulsory vehicle insurance is
also provided by another certificate.




(4)

In a circumstance in which universal compulsory vehicle insurance
provided by a blanket certificate applies, the coverage provided by
another certificate continues to apply, except to the extent that
coverage is instead provided by the blanket certificate.






Collection of information relating to blanket certificates and
certificates for taxis insured as part of fleet




35.2

(1)


The corporation may require a person referred to in subsection (2) to
provide to the corporation information, including personal information
about the person or other persons, and records relating to or
affecting any of the following:




(a)

an application for a blanket certificate;




(b)

an application for a certificate in relation to taxis to be insured as
part of a fleet;




(c)

the establishment of premiums for




(i)

blanket certificates, or




(ii)

certificates referred to in paragraph (b);




(d)

an incident involving a motor vehicle insured under a blanket
certificate, or a certificate referred to in paragraph (b), out of
which arises




(i)

injury or death to a person, or




(ii)

damage to property;




(e)

a prescribed matter.




(2)

The corporation may require information or records under subsection
(1) from any of the following:




(a)

a person who holds or is applying for




(i)

a blanket certificate, or




(ii)

a certificate referred to in subsection (1) (b);




(b)

a person who owns, drives, leases or dispatches motor vehicles to
which a blanket certificate, or a certificate referred to in
subsection (1) (b), relates;




(c)

a person who collects or holds data on behalf of a person described in
paragraph (a) or (b) of this subsection;




(d)

a person in a prescribed class of persons.




(3)

Information and records required under subsection (1) must




(a)

be provided to the corporation in the form established by the
corporation, and




(b)

include the content required by the corporation.




(4)

The corporation may, if information or records are not provided as
required under this section, cancel or refuse to issue, as applicable,
the certificate to which the information or records relate.






Issue of certificate




36

(1)


Subject to the regulations, on payment of the premium assessed for a
certificate, if a premium is assessed, and on approval of the
application by the corporation, the corporation must issue the
certificate to the applicant.




(2)

A certificate and an application for it must be in a form required by
the corporation, and must be designed and constituted




(a)

to meet the interest of convenience and economy, and




(b)

to adequately identify the permit or licence under the

Motor Vehicle Act

or

Commercial Transport Act

, or a motor vehicle or trailer or driver's licence, permit or other
authority to drive a motor vehicle under the

Motor Vehicle Act

to which the owner's certificate or the driver's certificate
corresponds.




(3)

The corporation must provide for the issue and delivery of all motor
vehicle liability insurance cards required under the

Motor Vehicle Act

by a person insured under a certificate but there may be printed on a
certificate under the heading "Motor Vehicle Liability Insurance Card"
particulars established by the corporation for motor vehicle liability
insurance cards that are required under the

Motor Vehicle Act

, and the particulars so printed constitute a motor vehicle liability
insurance card under and for the purpose of the

Motor Vehicle Act

.




(4)

A document purporting to be a certificate under this Act and a motor
vehicle liability insurance card, or either of them, either alone or
in combination with any permit or licence for a motor vehicle or
trailer or their use or operation, or any driver's licence, permit or
other authority to drive a motor vehicle that bears a signature
purporting to be the signature of the
chief executive officer
of the corporation, unless the contrary is shown, is deemed to be a
certificate or a motor vehicle liability insurance card, as
applicable, issued under this Act to the person named in it.




(5)

A motor vehicle liability insurance card must not be issued unless the
insurance evidenced in it meets the minimum requirements for a
certificate.




(6)

[Repealed 2003-94-29 as re-enacted 2006-28-28.]






Certificate not issued in certain case




37

(1)


An owner's certificate must not be issued under this Act for a motor
vehicle or trailer or its use or operation for which a permit or
licence is not required under the

Motor Vehicle Act

.




(2)

An owner's certificate must not be issued for a motor vehicle or
trailer for which the corporation refuses to issue a licence or permit
under section 28 of the

Motor Vehicle Act

.




(3)

A certificate issued contrary to subsection (1) or (2) is void and is
deemed to have always been void.




(4)

An owner's certificate is deemed to have lapsed and is void
immediately when the vehicle, for which the owner's certificate was
issued, is registered and licensed in another province or state.




(5)

Subsection (4) does not apply if a reciprocal or prorate registration
or licence is issued by another province or state in respect of a
vehicle registered under the

Commercial Transport Act

.






Insurance condition precedent to licence




38

(1)


Except for a vehicle exempted by the regulations, a permit of any kind
and a licence, number plate or validation decal for a vehicle or for
its use or operation must not be granted, issued or renewed under the

Motor Vehicle Act

or the

Commercial Transport Act

, unless at or before the time of application the applicant has
applied to the corporation or its agent for and is entitled to a
certificate other than a driver's certificate under this Act in
respect of the vehicle for the term of the permit or licence, or part
of that term as may be prescribed, and the applicant has paid the
premium, if any, for the certificate.




(2)

A driver's licence, permit or other authority to drive or operate a
motor vehicle must not be issued or renewed under the

Motor Vehicle Act

, unless




(a)

at or before the time of application the applicant has applied to the
corporation or its agent for and is entitled to a driver's certificate
under this Act for the term of that licence or permit or part of that
term as may be prescribed, and




(b)

the applicant has paid the premium, if any, established for that
driver's certificate.




(3)

If the corporation receives for registration a notice of transfer of a
vehicle under section 17 of the

Motor Vehicle Act

, the corporation must refuse registration unless the transferee has
paid the corporation




(a)

the premium or fee prescribed for the transfer.




(b)

[Repealed 2003-94-30 as re-enacted 2006-28-29.]






Effect of licensing action




39

(1)


The suspension, revocation, cancellation or surrender, under any law,
of a licence for a vehicle or its use or operation issued under the

Motor Vehicle Act

or

Commercial Transport Act

automatically suspends, revokes or cancels, as the case may be, the
certificate that corresponds to that permit or licence.




(2)

The suspension, revocation, cancellation or surrender, under any law,
of a driver's licence, permit or other authority to drive issued to a
person under the

Motor Vehicle Act

automatically suspends, revokes or cancels, as the case may be, the
driver's certificate in which that person is named and that
corresponds to that licence, permit or other authority to drive.




(3)

Despite this section, for the purposes of this Act an owner's
certificate is not suspended or cancelled merely because of the
surrender of a vehicle licence in compliance with a regulation made
under section 216 (1) (f) of the

Motor Vehicle Act

, until the vehicle licence and corresponding number plates have been
returned to the corporation.






Certificate in effect




40

(1)


Subject to its earlier suspension, revocation, cancellation or
surrender, a certificate other than a driver's certificate is, subject
to the regulations, valid for the period beginning




(a)

at the time and on the date of validation specified in the
certificate, or




(b)

at the beginning of the day on the effective date specified in the
certificate,

whichever is later, and expiring



(c)

at the end of the day on the date of expiry of the licence for the
vehicle described in the certificate, or




(d)

at the end of the day on the date specified in the certificate,

whichever is earlier.



(2)

Despite the date of issue, a driver's certificate, unless earlier
suspended, revoked, cancelled or surrendered, expires at the end of
the day on the anniversary date of the driver's birth.




(3)

For the purposes of subsection (2), the anniversary date of a person
born on February 29, in other than leap years, is deemed to be March
1.




(4)

Subject to the regulations, the applicant must, on application for
renewal or replacement of a certificate, pay the corporation or its
agent the premium established and assessed by the corporation for the
applicable certificate.




(5)

If a certificate other than a driver's certificate in respect of a
vehicle is not, before its expiration, renewed or replaced by another
certificate for the same vehicle, a permit or licence for that vehicle
or its use or operation issued under the

Motor Vehicle Act

or

Commercial Transport Act

that corresponds to the certificate, on the expiry of the certificate
and without further act or notice from the corporation, is suspended,
invalid and of no effect until it is renewed, replaced, reinstated or
validated following application for, payment of the premium for and
issue of the appropriate certificate.




(6)

If a driver's certificate is not, before its expiration, renewed or
replaced by another driver's certificate for the same person, the
driver's licence, permit or other authority to drive under the

Motor Vehicle Act

of the driver and that corresponds to the certificate, by virtue of
and from the time of the default, without further act or notice from
the corporation, is suspended, invalid and of no effect until it is
renewed, replaced, reinstated or validated following application for,
payment of the premium for and issue of the appropriate driver's
certificate.






Notification




41

(1)


The superintendent must notify the corporation of every suspension or
cancellation of a licence or a permit to drive that the superintendent
under the

Motor Vehicle Act

imposes under that Act.




(2)

The corporation may notify the Passenger Transportation Board of




(a)

the default of a person in paying a premium due to the corporation for
a certificate, or




(b)

a suspension or cancellation of a certificate.






Offences




42


A person who contravenes section 11 (3), 27, 28 (1), 28.1 (2), 29, 30
or 35.2 (1) commits an offence and on conviction is liable to the
penalties provided in the

Offence Act

.






Offence




42.1

(1)


In this section,
"claim"
includes




(a)

a claim for damages for injury, death or loss of or damage to property
that arises out of the use or operation of a motor vehicle, if the
claim is made against a person who is insured by the corporation for
third party legal liability,




(b)

an application to the corporation for benefits or insurance money to
be paid by the corporation, and




(c)

a claim under section 20 or 24.




(2)

A person commits an offence who




(a)

provides or causes another to provide to the corporation or its
representatives information material to a claim that the person knew
or ought to have known is false or misleading, whether the information
is required under this Act or is volunteered, or




(b)

makes a statement or representation to the corporation or its
representatives that the person knew or ought to have known is false
or misleading in order to obtain payment for goods or services
provided to a person making a claim, whether or not the goods or
services were actually provided to that person.




(3)

The time limit for laying an information respecting an offence under
this Act is the earlier of




(a)

18 months after the facts on which the information is based first came
to the knowledge of the corporation, and




(b)

6 years after the information is provided or the statement or
representation is made.




(4)

An individual who commits an offence under subsection (2) is liable,




(a)

on a first conviction, to a fine of not more than $25 000 or to
imprisonment for not more than 2 years, or to both, and




(b)

on each subsequent conviction, to a fine of not more than $50 000
or to imprisonment for not more than 2 years, or to both.




(5)

A corporation that commits an offence under subsection (2) is liable,




(a)

on a first conviction, to a fine of not more than $100 000, and




(b)

on each subsequent conviction, to a fine of not more than
$200 000.




(6)

At the time of sentencing a person convicted of an offence under this
section, the court may order that, in addition to any other penalty,
the offender must pay compensation or make restitution to the
corporation for the actual loss or damage caused by or arising out of
the commission of the offence including, without limitation,
compensation or restitution for




(a)

any money paid by the corporation as a result of the commission of the
offence, including, without limitation, any money paid to or on behalf
of the offender, and




(b)

any expenses incurred by the corporation in connection with the claim,
including, without limitation, the expenses incurred by the
corporation in relation to investigation, file handling and
prosecution of the offence.




(7)

If an order in favour of the corporation is made under subsection (6),
the corporation may, by filing the order in a registry of the Supreme
Court, enter as a judgment the amount ordered to be paid and that
judgment is enforceable against the offender in the same manner as if
it were a judgment rendered against the offender in that court in
civil proceedings.




(8)

Nothing in this section precludes the corporation or any other person
from taking any civil action or exercising any right of recovery
against a person who commits an offence under this section.






Repealed




43-44


[Repealed 2020-10-16.]






Repealed




44.1


[Repealed 2003-94-36.]






Power to make regulations




45

(1)


[Repealed 2003-94-37.]




(2)

Without limiting any power of the Lieutenant Governor in Council to
make regulations under any other Part of this Act, the Lieutenant
Governor in Council may make regulations under this Part as follows:




(a)

establishing, amending and revoking the plan of universal compulsory
vehicle insurance for the insurance inside and outside British
Columbia of losses, damages, injuries or deaths arising out of the
perils and risks attendant on or relating to the use, operation or
ownership of vehicles the Lieutenant Governor in Council may
designate;




(b)

establishing the terms, conditions and limits of insurance under the
plan;




(c)

[Repealed 2003-35-17.]




(d)

respecting those persons who are or may be insured under the plan and
the perils or risks for which insurance may be provided;




(d.1)

respecting the benefits or insurance money payable to or on behalf of
insured persons;




(d.2)

authorizing the indirect collection of personal information about a
person named in an application for a certificate as a driver of a
vehicle specified in the certificate;




(e)

respecting the insuring of vehicles that are part of a fleet, or used
for commerce or business, defining the meaning of "fleet" and
specifying the circumstances in which vehicles must be insured as part
of a fleet or as commercial or business vehicles;




(f)

prescribing the duration of the period of coverage provided under a
certificate, or a certificate that comes within a prescribed class or
subclass and permitting the corporation to specify the duration of the
period of coverage in particular cases;




(f.1)

prescribing the effective date or expiry date, or both, of a
certificate;




(f.2)

respecting the issue of a licence or permit the corporation is
authorized to issue under the

Motor Vehicle Act

or the

Commercial Transport Act

;




(f.3)

authorizing the corporation to assess a premium against an applicant
at the times and under the terms and conditions the corporation
considers appropriate;




(f.4)

respecting the payment of premiums, including, without limitation,




(i)

providing when premiums may or must be paid, and




(ii)

establishing that the amount of a premium or any part of it is a debt
due and owing to the corporation;




(f.5)

prescribing criteria for the purposes of section 34 (2) (j) and (3)
(d);




(f.6)

respecting blanket certificates;




(g)

[Repealed 2003-94-37.]




(h)

prescribing rights of salvage in favour of the corporation that may be
considered necessary for the purposes of the plan;




(i)

[Repealed 2003-35-17.]




(j)

establishing a plan for payment by the corporation to any person
sustaining loss from bodily injury or death, or damage to property,
arising out of the use or operation of a motor vehicle where




(i)

the name of the owner, lessee or driver is not ascertainable, or




(ii)

the name of the driver is not ascertainable and neither the owner nor
the lessee is liable;


the terms, conditions and limits of liability of the corporation under
the plan and the duties and liabilities of the owners and drivers of
motor vehicles respecting reimbursement of the corporation for the
payments;




(k)

establishing and determining, with respect to the plan, the right of a
person who would have a cause of action in British Columbia against
the owner, lessee or driver of an uninsured motor vehicle to apply to
the corporation for payment of damages and the terms and conditions
and limits of liability of the corporation for payment of the claims
for damages, and determining whether payment and the amount of payment
are within the discretion of the corporation, and providing for the
obtaining of consents to payment by those persons liable for the
losses, damages, injuries or deaths, and the execution under seal or
otherwise of agreements by those persons liable for the repayment to
the corporation of amounts paid to claimants;




(l)

providing that the corporation is an agent of the owner or lessee of
every uninsured motor vehicle for service of notice of process in an
action in British Columbia arising out of the use or operation in
British Columbia of an uninsured motor vehicle and the manner of
giving that notice to the corporation and the defendant;




(m)

providing, with respect to the plan, for settlement and payment of a
claim, judgment or unsatisfied portion of a judgment, for damages for
injury to, or the death of, any person or loss of, or damage to,
property caused in British Columbia by an uninsured motor vehicle
owned or operated by a person, or leased to a lessee, in British
Columbia, the terms and conditions governing payment and the maximum
amount of money payable respecting any person, accident or occurrence;




(n)

determining the residence of persons for purposes of this Act, the
regulations and the plan, and determining the rights of non-residents
to receive benefits or payments of any kind under the plan, or
exempting non-residents, as described in the regulations, from this
Act or the regulations;




(o)

authorizing additional services and expenditures by the corporation on
behalf of a person insured under a certificate and providing that the
corporation may, in the name and on behalf of any person insured by a
certificate, defend at its cost any civil action brought against the
person by anyone respecting a loss, damage, injury or death for which
the person may be liable and designating the terms and conditions
governing the provision of additional services and the making of
additional expenditures;




(p)

[Repealed 2003-35-17.]




(q)

respecting the combining of fees payable under the

Motor Vehicle Act

and the premium payable under this Act;




(q.1)

allowing the corporation to set the amounts of, and recover,
prescribed fees, charges or interest;




(q.2)

respecting the recovery of the fees, charges and interest referred to
in paragraph (q.1), including, without limitation, establishing that
the fees, charges or interest are debts due to the corporation;




(r)

providing for and prescribing the conditions governing the refund or
rebate of all or part of a premium paid to the corporation under this
Act and the plan;




(s) to (v)

[Repealed 2003-94-37.]




(w)

prescribing the deductible amount that applies to property damage
claims made under section 24.




(x)

[Not enacted.]




(y)

[Repealed 2003-37-26.]




(2.1)

For the purposes of subsection (2) (e), the definition of "fleet" may
be based on a minimum number of vehicles, and other criteria for the
vehicles, established by the corporation.




(2.2)

A regulation under subsection (2) (e) may require vehicles to be
insured as a fleet if the fleet comprises a number of vehicles greater
than a number established by the corporation and the vehicles meet
other criteria established by the corporation.




(2.3)

For the purposes of establishing a number of vehicles referred to in
subsections (2.1) and (2.2), if a licence authorizes a driver to
operate any vehicle on which a number plate associated with the
licence is displayed, the corporation may count that licence as if it
is a vehicle.




(2.4)

Without limiting subsection (2) (f.6), a regulation under that
subsection may do any of the following:




(a)

specify the persons to whom the corporation is permitted or required
to issue blanket certificates;




(b)

specify circumstances in which




(i)

universal compulsory vehicle insurance provided under a blanket
certificate applies instead of universal compulsory vehicle insurance
provided under one or more other specified certificates, or




(ii)

coverage provided by a blanket certificate applies instead of some or
all of the coverage provided by one or more other specified
certificates.




(3)

[Repealed 2003-94-37.]




(4)

Subject to section 85, the observance of terms or conditions
established under subsection (2) is a condition precedent to a person
obtaining benefits, insurance money or indemnification provided under
the plan.




(5)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may, by regulation, exclude or
exempt a non-resident or class of non-residents and a vehicle or class
of them from the operation of all or part of this Part or the
regulations under this Part, or all or part of the plan, on the terms
and conditions the Lieutenant Governor in Council prescribes.






Regulations respecting health care fees




45.1

(1)


Without limiting any power of the Lieutenant Governor in Council to
make regulations under any other Part of this Act or under section 45,
the Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations under this
Part as follows:




(a)

respecting the amount payable as benefits for the provision of health
care by a health care practitioner to an insured person, including,
without limitation, regulations adopting a payment schedule under
section 26 of the

Medicare Protection Act

;




(b)

authorizing the corporation to enter into an agreement with a health
care practitioner respecting the amount payable by the corporation as
benefits for the provision of health care by a health care
practitioner to an insured person;




(c)

for the purposes of paragraph (c) of the definition of "health care
practitioner" in section 1, prescribing classes of persons and
enactments;




(d)

for the purposes of paragraph (d) of the definition of "health care
practitioner" in section 1, prescribing classes of persons.




(2)

A regulation under subsection (1) (a) or (b) may




(a)

be different for different types or classes of health care
practitioners,




(b)

be different for different types or classes of health care,




(c)

in respect of a particular type or class of health care practitioner
or a particular type or class of health care, be different for
different geographical areas of British Columbia, and




(d)

be different for different types or classes of agreements.




(3)

A regulation under subsection (1) (a) may adopt by reference, in whole
or in part and with any change the Lieutenant Governor in Council
considers necessary, a payment schedule under the

Medicare Protection Act

as it stands at the time of adoption or as amended from time to time.




(4) to (8)

[Repealed 2020-10-17.]






Repealed




46


[Repealed 2003-94-38.]






Repealed




46.1


[Repealed 2003-37-26.]






Review of regulations




46.11

(1)


At least once every 5 years, the minister must initiate a review of
the following:




(a)

the amount, set by a regulation made under section
45 (2) (d.1), of the benefits payable to or on behalf of an
insured person;




(b)

the amount, set by a regulation made under section
45.1 (1) (a), payable as benefits for the provision of
health care by a health care practitioner to an insured person;




(c)

the amount, set by a regulation made under section 169 (2) (b), of the
benefits payable for the provision of health care by a health care
practitioner to an insured person;




(d)

amounts prescribed by a regulation for the purposes of a provision of
Part 10.




(2)

A review under subsection (1) must be conducted in consultation with
the corporation and any other person or organization the minister
considers appropriate.




(3)

A report on the results of the review




(a)

must be submitted to the minister within one year after the review is
initiated, and




(b)

may include recommendations to amend a regulation reviewed.




(4)

After receiving the report under subsection (3), the minister must,




(a)

if the Legislative Assembly is in session, promptly lay the report
before the Legislative Assembly, or




(b)

if the Legislative Assembly is not in session, promptly file the
report with the Clerk of the Legislative Assembly.




(5)

For the purposes of subsection (1) (a) and (b), the first 5-year
period begins on April 1, 2019.




(6)

For the purposes of subsection (1) (c) and (d), the first 5-year
period begins on April 1, 2024.






Jurisdiction of the commission




46.2

(1)


Nothing in this Act limits the jurisdiction of the commission under
Part 2 of the

Insurance Corporation Act

.




(2)

In the event of a conflict between this Act and Part 2 of the

Insurance Corporation Act

, Part 2 of the

Insurance Corporation Act

applies.




(3)

Without limiting subsections (1) and (2) of this section, and despite
section 45 (6) of the

Insurance Corporation Act

but subject to directions issued to the commission under section 47 of
that Act or section 3 of the

Utilities Commission Act

, the commission has the jurisdiction to do the following at any time
and for any purpose related to rates within the meaning of section 44
(3) (a) of that Act:




(a)

approve, require the replacement of or override and replace, whether
or not prescribed by the Lieutenant Governor in Council,




(i)

premiums, or




(ii)

the criteria on which a premium is based;




(b)

establish interim premiums.




Part 2





Not in force. Repealed




47-51


[Not in force. Repealed 2006-33-1.]




Part 3





Repealed




52-57


[Repealed 2003-94-40.]




Part 4 — Optional Insurance Contracts





Definitions and interpretation




57.1

(1)


In this Part:



"non-owner's policy"

means a vehicle liability policy evidencing an optional insurance
contract that insures a person solely in respect of the use or
operation by the person or on the person's behalf of a vehicle that is
not owned by the person;



"owner's policy"

means a vehicle liability policy evidencing an optional insurance
contract that insures a person in respect of




(a)

the ownership, use or operation of a vehicle that is




(i)

owned by the person, and




(ii)

within the description or definition of that vehicle in the policy,
and




(b)

if the optional insurance contract so provides, in respect of the use
or operation of any other vehicle;



"prescribed condition"

means a term or condition prescribed under section 72 (a).




(2)

For the purposes of this Part, a person is not considered to be the
owner of a vehicle only because the person has a lien on the vehicle
or has legal title to the vehicle as security.






Application of this Part




58


This Part applies to




(a)

optional insurance contracts that are made or renewed in British
Columbia and that take effect on or after the date this section comes
into force,




(b)

claims under those contracts, and




(c)

insureds and insurers in relation to those contracts.






Not in force. Repealed




59


[Not in force. Repealed 2006-28-35.]






Duty of insurer




60


An optional insurance contract evidenced by a vehicle liability
policy, other than a vehicle liability policy that extends coverage
specified in a certificate, must provide that if a person insured by
the contract is involved in an accident resulting from the ownership,
use or operation of a vehicle, or, in the case of a leased motor
vehicle, from the possession of the leased motor vehicle by the lessee
or the use or operation of the motor vehicle, in respect of which
insurance is provided under the contract and resulting in loss or
damage to persons or property, the insurer must, at its own expense,
do the following:




(a)

on receipt of notice of a claim for damages brought against an
insured, assist the insured by investigating and negotiating a
settlement, if in the opinion of the insurer the assistance is
necessary;




(b)

defend in the name of the insured any action for damages brought
against the insured;




(c)

pay costs, expenses, interest and reimbursement that are prescribed by
the regulations.






Coverage of optional insurance contracts




61

(1)


An optional insurance contract may only




(a)

extend coverage for every insured that is specified in a certificate
or policy to a limit that is in excess of that provided by the
certificate or policy on the same terms and conditions as under that
certificate or policy, except as provided under subsection (1.1) or
the regulations,




(b)

extend coverage for every insured that is provided under Part 10 to a
limit that is in excess of that provided under Part 10 on the same
terms and conditions as under Part 10, except as provided under
subsection (1.1) or the regulations, or




(c)

provide coverage that is not provided under Part 10, or




(d)

provide coverage that is not specified in




(i)

a certificate, or




(ii)

a policy that extends the coverage that is specified in a certificate
or provided under Part 10.




(1.1)

Subject to subsections (1.2) and (2) and the regulations, an optional
insurance contract referred to in subsection (1) (a) or (b)
may prohibit a specified person or class of persons from using or
operating the vehicle, exclude coverage for a specified risk or
provide different limits of coverage for different persons or risks or
classes of persons or risks.




(1.2)

An optional insurance contract may not, in respect of third party
liability insurance coverage,




(a)

prohibit a person who is living with and as a member of the family of




(i)

the owner of the vehicle, and




(ii)

in the case of a leased motor vehicle, if the policy was purchased by
the lessee, of the lessee of the motor vehicle,

from using or operating the vehicle, or



(b)

exclude or provide different limits of coverage for that person.




(2)

A prohibition, an exclusion or a limit referred to in subsection (1.1)
is not binding on the insured unless the policy has printed on it in a
prominent place in conspicuous lettering the words "This policy
contains prohibitions relating to persons or classes of persons,
exclusions of risks or limits of coverage that are not in the
insurance it extends".




(3) and (4)

[Not in force. Repealed 2006-28-37.]




(5)

Despite any provision in an optional insurance contract extending the
limit of coverage specified in a certificate or a policy, the coverage
under the optional insurance contract terminates if the coverage
provided by the certificate or policy terminates.




(6)

Coverage that is prohibited by the regulations is null and void.




(7)

Despite any provision of this Act or the regulations, an insurer is
not liable to an insured under an optional insurance contract for loss
or damage in circumstances specified in the owner's policy if




(a)

the optional insurance contract relates to a vehicle that is not
required under the

Motor Vehicle Act

to be licensed and insured, and




(b)

the owner's policy is endorsed with a statement that the insurer is
not liable to the insured for loss or damage in those circumstances.




(8)

In subsection (2),
"policy"
does not include an interim receipt, a renewal receipt or a binder.






Coverage of non-owner's policy




62


Every optional insurance contract evidenced by a non-owner's policy
insures the person named in it and any other person who is named in
the non-owner's policy, against liability arising out of




(a)

bodily injury to or the death of a person, or




(b)

loss of or damage to property


caused by a vehicle to which the non-owner's policy applies or the use
or operation of the vehicle.






Copy of application in policy




63

(1)


An insurer who issues a policy evidencing an optional insurance
contract must ensure that embodied in, endorsed on or attached to the
policy when issued is a copy of whichever of the following is
applicable:




(a)

the written application for the optional insurance contract, signed by
the insured or the insured's agent;




(b)

if no signed application is made, a copy of the purported application;




(c)

if the application forms part of a larger application, a copy of that
part of the larger application or purported application that is
material to the optional insurance contract.




(2)

If no signed written application is received by the insurer before the
issue of the policy, the insurer must deliver or mail to the insured
named in the policy, or to the insured's agent, a form of application
to be completed and signed by the insured and returned to the insurer.




(3)

The insurer must deliver or mail to the insured named in the policy,
or to the insured's agent, the policy or a true copy of it and every
endorsement or other amendment to the optional insurance contract.




(4)

If a written application signed by the insured or the insured's agent
is made for an optional insurance contract, the policy evidencing the
optional insurance contract is deemed to be in accordance with the
application unless the insurer points out in writing to the insured
named in the policy in what respect the policy differs from the
application, and in that event the insured is deemed to have accepted
the policy unless within one week from the receipt of the notification
the insured informs the insurer in writing that the insured rejects
the policy.




(5)

On every application form and policy, other than an interim receipt, a
renewal receipt or a binder, the following must be printed in a
prominent place in conspicuous lettering:



"Under section 75 of the
Insurance (Vehicle) Act
, your claim is invalid if at any time you fail to provide complete
and accurate information, violate a term or condition of your policy
or commit fraud. This is a summary. For full information, see section
75 of the
Insurance (Vehicle) Act
."




(6)

In this section, a reference to a written application that is signed
by the insured or the insured's agent includes an electronic
application with an electronic signature of the insured or the
insured's agent.




(7)

The requirements of subsections (1) and (3) are met if




(a)

an insurer




(i)

makes the policy accessible on a website, and




(ii)

delivers to the insured the items referred to in subsection (1) (a) to
(c), as applicable, together with the address of the website, and




(b)

the insured gives written consent to accept delivery of the policy in
that manner,


but if the insured later requests, the insurer must deliver or mail
the policy or a true copy of it to the insured.






Use of statements in application for optional insurance contract




64

(1)


A statement of the applicant must not be used in defence of a claim
under the optional insurance contract unless it is contained in the
signed written application or, if no signed written application is
made, unless it is contained in the purported application, or part of
it, that is embodied in, endorsed on or attached to the policy.




(2)

A statement contained in the purported application, or part of it,
other than a statement describing the risk and the extent of the
insurance, must not be used in defence of a claim under the optional
insurance contract unless the insurer proves that the applicant made
the statement attributed to the applicant in the purported
application, or part of it.






Limits on physical damage




65


Subject to the regulations, an insurer may provide for exclusions and
limits of loss in an optional insurance contract, in respect of loss
of or damage to or the loss of use of the vehicle.






Agreement for partial payment of claim by insured




66

(1)


Nothing in this Part or the regulations under this Part precludes an
insurer from entering into an agreement with its insured under an
optional insurance contract providing that the insured will reimburse
the insurer in an agreed amount in respect of any claim by or judgment
in favour of a third party against the insured.




(2)

An agreement referred to in subsection (1) may be enforced against the
insured.






Partial payment of loss clause




67

(1)


An optional insurance contract providing insurance against loss of or
damage to a vehicle or the loss of use of it may contain a clause to
the effect that, in the event of loss, the insurer must pay only




(a)

an agreed portion of any loss that may be sustained, or




(b)

the amount of the loss after deduction of a sum specified in the
policy,


and in either case not exceeding the amount of the insurance.




(2)

If an optional insurance contract contains a clause referred to in
subsection (1), the clause is not binding on the insured unless the
policy has printed on it in a prominent place in conspicuous lettering
the words "This policy contains a partial payment of loss clause".




(3)

In subsection (2),
"policy"
does not include an interim receipt, a renewal receipt or a binder.






Relief from forfeiture




68


If there has been




(a)

imperfect compliance with a term or condition of an optional insurance
contract as to the proof of loss to be given by the insured or other
requirement of the insured with respect to the loss, and a consequent
forfeiture under section 75, or




(b)

a termination of the optional insurance contract by a notice that was
not received by the insured owing to the insured's absence from the
address to which the notice was addressed and a consequent denial of a
claim


and the court considers the forfeiture or denial inequitable on that
ground, the court may, on terms it considers just, relieve against the
forfeiture or denial.






Persons forbidden to act as agent




69


A person carrying on the business of financing the sale or purchase of
vehicles and a vehicle dealer, insurance agent or broker, and an
officer or employee of such a person, dealer, agent or broker, must
not act as the agent of an applicant for the purpose of signing an
application for an optional insurance contract.






Protection of insurance agent commission




70

(1)


In this section,
"agent"
means an insurance agent licensed under Division 2 of Part 6 of the

Financial Institutions Act

and authorized by a licensed insurer on its behalf to solicit and
receive applications for insurance and to collect premiums, and whose
compensation or profit for that consists wholly of a commission on
premiums derived from that business.




(2)

The commission, if any, on any policy issued at the head office of an
insurer in British Columbia must be paid to an agent, and there must
be written on the policy the words "Issued on behalf of
________________, resident authorized agent at ________________", with
the name of the agent and of the place where the agent carries on
business.




(3)

The person in charge of the head office of an insurer in British
Columbia must immediately, on the issue of a policy at the head
office, notify the agent of the date of the policy, the name of the
insured and the vehicle insured, if any.






Statistical information




71

(1)


The minister may enter into an agreement with a person or agency to




(a)

compile information provided by insurers, and




(b)

make an analysis of the information available to the superintendent,
insurers and the public.




(2)

If the minister enters into an agreement referred to in subsection
(1), the minister must provide insurers with a copy of the agreement
as soon as practicable.




(3)

The person or agency referred to in subsection (1) must not disclose
the information provided by an insurer under this section except to
the superintendent or as required by law.






Power to make regulations




72


Without limiting any power of the Lieutenant Governor in Council to
make regulations under any other Part of this Act or under section 73,
the Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations under this
Part as follows:




(a)

prescribing terms and conditions that are required to be contained in
optional insurance contracts or in a prescribed class of optional
insurance contracts;




(b)

providing that any or all of the prescribed conditions




(i)

form part of every optional insurance contract or of a prescribed
class of optional insurance contracts,




(ii)

do not form part of a prescribed class of optional insurance contracts
or of a specific contract,




(iii)

apply only in respect of a specified type of coverage, or




(iv)

do not apply in respect of a specified type of coverage;




(b.1)

requiring that the prescribed conditions, with the variations,
omissions or additions that are applicable because of a regulation
under paragraph (b), be printed on every policy, other than an interim
receipt, a renewal receipt or a binder, issued on or after the
effective date of the prescribed conditions, with the heading
"Prescribed Conditions";




(b.2)

requiring that other specified information be printed on a policy,
other than an interim receipt, a renewal receipt or a binder, issued
on or after the effective date of the regulation;




(b.3)

respecting those persons who are or may be insured under optional
insurance contracts or a prescribed class of optional insurance
contracts and the perils or risks for which insurance may be provided;




(b.4)

respecting the insurance money payable to or on behalf of insured
persons;




(c)

permitting the superintendent to approve forms of application, policy
or endorsement in respect of vehicle insurance or a class of forms,
and to revoke approval of a form or a class of forms;




(d)

requiring forms of application, policy or endorsement in respect of
vehicle insurance or a class of forms, to be approved by the
superintendent;




(e)

authorizing the superintendent to approve a form of policy or part of
it or endorsement evidencing an optional insurance contract that
varies, omits or adds to any prescribed condition in prescribed
circumstances;




(f)

permitting insurers to file with the superintendent and use a form or
class of forms that has not been approved by the superintendent until
the superintendent has given written notice that the form or class of
forms is not approved;




(g)

prohibiting the use of a form or class of forms that has not been
approved by the superintendent;




(h)

requiring the superintendent to give written reasons in prescribed
circumstances for approving or not approving a form or class of forms
or for revoking an approval;




(i)

permitting an insurer to require information from an insured that is
additional to that in a form approved by the superintendent and
exempting that information from the application of sections 64 and 75;




(j)

respecting nuclear energy hazard liability insurance;




(k)

prohibiting insurance or coverage against a class of risk or peril;




(l)

prescribing circumstances in which an insurer is not liable, or in
which an insurer may provide that it is not liable, under an optional
insurance contract;




(m)

respecting an evaluation process for settling disputes between an
insurer and an insured about the nature and extent of repairs required
for a vehicle, replacement of a vehicle or the amount payable in
respect of direct loss of or damage to the vehicle and how the costs
of the evaluation are paid;




(n)

exempting prescribed disputes or disputes in prescribed circumstances
from the evaluation process;




(n.1)

providing that prescribed disputes may or must be submitted to
arbitration, and governing the rights and obligations of the
arbitrator and a party to the arbitration;




(o)

prescribing the costs, expenses, interest and reimbursement that must
be paid by an insurer under section 60;




(p)

providing for exclusions of coverage for specified persons or risks;




(q)

providing for different limits of loss or liability for different
people insured under an optional insurance contract;




(r)

excluding the operation, use or loss of a vehicle from the definition
of "vehicle insurance";




(s)

respecting the rights and obligations of an insurer;




(t)

respecting exceptions for the purposes of section 61 (1) (a)
or (b).






Variation of prescribed conditions




72.1


Subject to sections 66 and 67 and the regulations, no variation or
omission of or addition to a prescribed condition is binding on the
insured.






Power to make regulations establishing an insurer of last resort




73


Without limiting any power of the Lieutenant Governor in Council to
make regulations under any other Part of this Act or under section 72,
the Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations as follows:




(a)

requiring an insurance company to be incorporated under the

Financial Institutions Act

within a specified period of time by insurers that are authorized to
carry on vehicle insurance business in British Columbia;




(b)

specifying the purpose of the insurance company;




(c)

requiring the insurance company to apply for a business authorization
under the

Financial Institutions Act

;




(d)

requiring every insurer that is authorized to carry on vehicle
insurance business in British Columbia to be a member of the insurance
company;




(e)

requiring the insurance company to enter into optional insurance
contracts with owners of vehicles, or, in the case of leased motor
vehicles, lessees of leased motor vehicles, who are unable to enter
into optional insurance contracts with any other insurer;




(f)

requiring the insurance company to establish the circumstances under
which it determines that an owner or lessee is unable to enter into an
optional insurance contract with any other insurer and requiring the
superintendent to approve those circumstances;




(g)

respecting coverage, limits of loss or liability and other terms and
conditions that must be included in an optional insurance contract
provided by the insurance company;




(h)

exempting the insurance company from a provision of the

Financial Institutions Act

and the regulations under that Act;




(i)

specifying the duration of an exemption under paragraph (h);




(j)

applying provisions of the

Utilities Commission Act

to the insurance company.




Part 5 — Provisions Relating to the Plan and Optional Insurance





Application of this Part




74


This Part applies to




(a)

insurance under the plan and optional insurance contracts that




(i)

is obtained or renewed in British Columbia, and




(ii)

takes effect on or after the date this section comes into force,




(b)

claims under that insurance, and




(c)

insureds and insurers in relation to that insurance.






Civil resolution tribunal




74.1


In sections 83, 84 and 86,
"court"
includes the civil resolution tribunal in respect of applicable
accident claims under the

Civil Resolution Tribunal Act

.






Forfeiture




75


All claims by or in respect of the applicant or insured are invalid
and the right of an applicant, an insured, or a person claiming
through or on behalf of an applicant or insured or of a person
claiming as a dependant of the applicant or the insured, to insurance
money under the plan or an optional insurance contract, is forfeited
if




(a)

the applicant for coverage under the plan or the optional insurance
contract




(i)

to the prejudice of the insurer, falsely describes the vehicle in
respect of which the application is made, or




(ii)

knowingly misrepresents or fails to disclose in the application a fact
required to be stated in it,




(b)

the insured violates a term or condition of or commits a fraud in
relation to the plan or the optional insurance contract, or




(c)

the insured makes a wilfully false statement with respect to the
claim.






Third party rights




76

(1)


In this section and sections 77 and 78,
"claimant"
means a person who has a claim or a judgment against an insured for
which indemnity is provided by the plan or an optional insurance
contract.




(2)

Even though he or she does not have a contractual relationship with
the insurer, a claimant is entitled, on recovering a judgment against
an insured or making a settlement with the insurer, to have the
insurance money applied toward the claimant's judgment or settlement
and toward any other judgments or claims against the insured who is
covered by the indemnity.




(3)

The claimant may, on behalf of himself or herself and all persons
having judgments or claims against the insured who is covered by the
indemnity, bring an action against the insurer to have the insurance
money applied in accordance with subsection (2).




(4)

The insurer may at any stage compromise or settle the claim.




(5)

A creditor of the insured is not entitled to share in the insurance
money unless the creditor's claim is one for which indemnity is
provided for by the plan or the optional insurance contract.




(6)

The following do not prejudice the right of a person entitled under
subsection (2) to have the insurance money applied toward the person's
judgment or settlement, and are not available to the insurer as a
defence to an action under subsection (3):




(a)

assignment, transfer, surrender, cancellation, suspension, waiver or
discharge of coverage under the plan or an optional insurance contract
or under a provision of the plan or an optional insurance contract, or
of an interest in either of them or of insurance money payable under
either of them, made by the insured after the event giving rise to a
claim under the plan or optional insurance contract occurs;




(b)

an act or default of the insured before or after the event giving rise
to a claim under the plan or an optional insurance contract in
contravention of this Act or the regulations or of the plan or
optional insurance contract;




(c)

contravention of the

Criminal Code

or of a law or statute of any province, state or country by the owner,
lessee or driver of the vehicle in respect of which the insurance
money is payable under a certificate or policy.




(7)

An action must not be brought against an insurer under subsection (3)
after the expiration of one year from the final determination of the
action against the insured, including appeals, if any.




(8)

It is not a defence to an action under subsection (3) that an
instrument issued as a vehicle liability policy by an insurer and
alleged by a party to the action to be such a policy is not a vehicle
liability policy and this section and sections 77 and 78 apply.






Rights of insurer




77

(1)


Despite section 76 (6), an insurer may avail itself, against a person
claiming under section 76 (3) in respect of property damage under an
optional insurance contract, of any defence that the insurer is
entitled to set up against the insured.




(2)

Without limiting section 93.1 and in addition to any other remedy, if
an insurer has paid an amount to a person under section 76 by way of
settlement or otherwise, that it would not otherwise be liable to pay,
and has personally delivered or forwarded by registered mail to the
last known address of the insured a demand for reimbursement of that
amount, the insured is liable to reimburse the insurer that amount,
and the insurer may enforce the right by action in court.




(3)

Whether or not the insured has filed a defence in the action, if an
insurer denies liability to an insured under the plan or an optional
insurance contract, the insurer may issue and serve a third party
notice and be made a third party in any action to which the insured is
a party and in which a claim is made against the insured by a party
with respect to which it is or might be asserted that indemnity is
provided by the plan or an optional insurance contract.




(4)

On being made a party under subsection (3), the insurer has the right
to contest the insured's liability to any party claiming against the
insured, and to contest the amount of any claim made against the
insured, as if the insurer were a defendant in the action, including
the right to




(a)

deliver a response to civil claim to the claim of any party claiming
against the insured,




(b)

deliver other pleadings,




(c)

have production and discovery from any party adverse in interest, and




(d)

examine and cross examine witnesses at trial.




(5)

If an insured agrees that the insurer would not, except for section
76, be or become liable to make a payment in respect of a claim
against the insured, the insured may at any time undertake to
reimburse the insurer by




(a)

giving a written undertaking to repay the amount paid by the insurer
to or on behalf of the claimant, and




(b)

executing a consent to the payment by the insurer of that amount.




(6)

The insurer may, on payment of an amount under section 76 that it
would not otherwise be liable to pay, require an assignment of the
judgment from the claimant in a form registrable under the

Land Title Act

, to the extent of that payment.




(7)

An insurer to whom an assignment is provided under subsection (6) may
register that assignment under the

Land Title Act

unless, within 30 days after the date of a demand provided to the
insured under subsection (2), the insured delivers to the chief agency
or head office of the insurer in British Columbia a written notice by
which the insured disputes the insured's liability to reimburse the
insurer.




(8)

If the insurer has paid money in satisfaction of a claim, settlement
or judgment under section 76 or by agreement under subsection (5) of
this section, and the insured has not reimbursed the amount for which
the insured is liable under subsection (2) or that the insured has
agreed to reimburse the insurer under subsection (5)




(a)

the insurer may agree to accept payment in instalments from the
insured, and




(b)

the insured may, on notice to the insurer, apply to the Supreme Court
for an order that the insured be permitted to pay the insurer in
instalments in amounts and at times determined by the court.




(9)

The insurer may apply to court to require any other insurers liable to
indemnify the insured in whole or in part in respect of judgments or
claims to which reference is made in section 76 (2) to




(a)

be made parties to the action, and




(b)

contribute according to their respective liabilities, whether the
contribution is rateably or by way of primary or excess insurance, as
the case may be.






Payment of insurance money into court




78

(1)


The insurer may apply to the court without notice to any person for an
order allowing it to pay the insurance money into court, and the court
may so order, on the notice, if any, it considers necessary if




(a)

a person obtains a judgment against an insured and is entitled to
bring an action under section 76 (3), and




(b)

there are or may be other claimants, or there is no willing person
capable of giving and authorized to give a valid discharge for
payment.




(2)

If an insurer pays money into court in accordance with an order made
under subsection (1), the registrar or other proper officer of the
court may give a receipt to the insurer for that payment.




(3)

An insurer to whom a receipt is given under subsection (2) is
discharged from




(a)

any liability for the money paid, and




(b)

any claims in respect of the money paid that might be made by or on
behalf of the persons entitled to the money.






Defence if more than one contract




79

(1)


The insured or an insurer may apply to the court and the court must
give directions it considers proper with respect to the performance of
the obligation to defend in the name and on behalf of the insured if




(a)

a person is insured under more than one optional insurance contract
evidenced by vehicle liability policies or under the plan and one or
more optional insurance contracts evidenced by vehicle liability
policies, and




(b)

a question arises between an insurer and the insured or between the
insurers as to which insurer must undertake the obligation to defend.




(2)

Subsection (1) applies whether




(a)

the insurance provided by the optional insurance contract is primary
or excess, or




(b)

an insurer accepts or denies liability under the plan or its optional
insurance contract.




(3)

On an application under subsection (1), the only parties entitled to
notice and to be heard are the insured and the insurers, and no
material or evidence used or taken on the application is admissible on
the trial of an action brought against the insured for bodily injury
to or the death of a person or loss of or damage to property caused by
the vehicle or the use or operation of the vehicle in respect of which
the insurance is provided.




(4)

An order under subsection (1) does not affect the rights and
obligations of the insurers in respect of payment of any indemnity
under their respective policies.




(5)

If insurance is provided to the insured under more than one optional
insurance contract or under the plan and one or more optional
insurance contracts and one or more of them are excess insurance, the
insurers must, as between themselves, contribute to the payment of
costs, expenses, interest and reimbursement in accordance with their
respective liabilities for




(a)

damages awarded against the insured, or




(b)

the amount payable under a settlement made on behalf of the insured.






Other insurance




80

(1)


If there is an optional insurance contract and any other vehicle
insurance, including insurance under the plan or another optional
insurance contract, none of which is excess to the others, that
insures against the same loss or liability, an insurer is liable only
for its rateable proportion of any loss, liability or damage.




(2)

An insured must notify the insurers of any other insurance that
insures against the same loss.




(3)

In this section,
"rateable proportion"
means




(a)

if there are 2 insurers liable and the certificate or policy specifies
the same limit, each of the insurers is liable to share equally in any
liability, expense, loss or damage,




(b)

if there are 2 insurers liable and the certificate or policy specifies
different limits, the insurers are liable to share equally up to the
limit of the smaller limit, or




(c)

if there are more than 2 insurers liable, paragraphs (a) and (b) apply
with the necessary changes and so far as applicable.






Unnamed insured




81

(1)


A person insured under the plan or an optional insurance contract, but
not named in the certificate or policy may recover insurance money in
the same manner and to the same extent as if the person were the named
insured in the certificate or policy.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1), the person referred to in that
subsection, in the person's own name and on the person's own behalf,
may exercise the same rights and is subject to the same obligations as
the insured as if the person were the named insured in the certificate
or policy.






Insured to give notice and disclose damage




82

(1)


Every insured against whom an action is commenced for damages caused
by a vehicle or the use or operation of a vehicle must give notice of
it in writing to the insurer within 5 days after service of every
notice or process in the action.




(2)

Every insured against whom an action is commenced for damages caused
by a vehicle or the use or operation of a vehicle must, on recovery of
a judgment against the insured, disclose to a judgment creditor
entitled to the benefit of any vehicle liability policy particulars of
the certificate or policy within 10 days after written demand for it.






Liability limited for classes of owners




82.1

(1)


In an action to recover for loss or damage to persons or property
arising out of the use or operation of a leased motor vehicle on a
highway in British Columbia, the maximum amount for which the lessor
of the motor vehicle is liable, in that lessor's capacity as lessor of
the motor vehicle, in respect of any one incident is the amount
determined under subsection (2).




(2)

The maximum amount for the purposes of subsection (1) is the greatest
of the following amounts:




(a)

$1 000 000;




(b)

the amount established, or determined in the manner prescribed, by
regulation;




(c)

the amount of third party liability insurance coverage required by law
to be carried in respect of the motor vehicle.




(3)

Subsection (1) does not apply




(a)

in respect of amounts payable by a lessor other than by reason of
vicarious liability imposed under section 86 of the

Motor Vehicle Act

, or




(b)

to prescribed lessors or motor vehicles, or prescribed classes of
lessors or motor vehicles.




(4)

This section applies only in relation to loss or damage sustained on
or after the date this section comes into force.






Liability limited for health care costs




82.2

(1)


In this section,
"health care loss"
means a cost or expense incurred or to be incurred for health care
provided by a health care practitioner.




(2)

In an action for damages caused by a vehicle or the use or operation
of a vehicle, a person may not recover, for a health care loss, an
amount that exceeds one of the following:




(a)

the amount, if any, that is established or determined for the
particular health care loss under a regulation under section 45.1 (1)
(a);




(b)

in any other case, the value of the particular health care loss.




(3)

If, for the purposes of this section, it is necessary to estimate the
value of a health care loss, the value must be estimated according to
the value the deferred health care loss has on the date of the
estimate determined in accordance with subsection (2).




(4)

This section applies only in relation to a health care loss resulting
from an accident occurring on or after April 1, 2019.






Liability reduced




83

(1)


In this section,
"benefits"
means amounts paid or payable, or things or services provided or to be
provided in kind, directly or indirectly and whether or not as a
result of a right of indemnity,




(a)

as benefits under Part 1,




(b)

as follows, for a loss or expense similar to a loss or expense covered
by benefits under Part 1:




(i)

under insurance, wherever issued and in effect;




(ii)

under the

Workers Compensation Act

or a similar law of a jurisdiction other than British Columbia;




(iii)

under the

Employment Insurance Act

(Canada);




(iv)

by the government of a province or territory of Canada, Canada or
another jurisdiction;




(v)

under terms or conditions of employment or an agreement for collective
bargaining, and




(c)

in prescribed circumstances, for a loss or expense similar to a loss
or expense covered by benefits under Part 1,

but does not include



(d)

a payment made under third party liability insurance coverage,




(e)

health care services as defined in section 1 of the

Health Care Costs Recovery Act

, or




(f)

in prescribed circumstances, an amount paid or payable, or a thing or
service provided or to be provided in kind, directly or indirectly and
whether or not as a result of a right of indemnity, under paragraph
(b).




(1.1)

Despite paragraph (b) (ii) of the definition of "benefits" in
subsection (1), compensation that is paid or provided, or that is
payable or to be provided, under the

Workers Compensation Act

is excluded from the definition of "benefits" if either of the
following applies:




(a)

the person to whom the compensation is paid or provided, or payable or
to be provided, elects not to claim compensation under section 128 (1)
(a) of that Act and the person is not entitled to compensation under
section 129 of that Act;




(b)

the Workers' Compensation Board pursues its right of subrogation under
section 130 of that Act.




(2)

A person who has a claim for damages and who receives or is entitled
to receive benefits respecting the loss on which the claim is based,
is deemed to have released the claim to the extent of the benefits.




(3)

Nothing in this section precludes a person who is liable to pay or
provide benefits from demanding from the person referred to in
subsection (2), as a condition precedent to receiving the benefits, a
release to the extent of the value of the benefits.




(4)

In an action in respect of bodily injury or death caused by a vehicle
or the use or operation of a vehicle, the amount of benefits paid or
provided, or to which the person referred to in subsection (2) is or
would have been entitled, must not be referred to or disclosed to the
court or jury until the court has assessed the award of damages.




(5)

After assessing the award of damages under subsection (4), the amount
of benefits referred to in that subsection must be disclosed to the
court, and taken into account, or, if the amount of benefits has not
been ascertained, the court must estimate it and take the estimate
into account, and the person referred to in subsection (2) is entitled
to enter judgment for the balance only.




(5.1)

In estimating, under subsection (5), an amount of benefits that has
not been ascertained, the court may not consider the likelihood that
the benefits will be paid or provided.




(6)

If, for the purposes of this section or section 84, it is necessary to
estimate the value of benefits that may or must be paid or provided,
the value must be estimated according to the value on the date of the
estimate of the deferred benefits, calculated for the period for which
the benefits are authorized or required to be paid or provided.




(7)

Despite any right of subrogation a person may have under an agreement,
the common law or an enactment, but subject to section 130 of the

Workers Compensation Act

and section 84 of this Act, a person who pays or provides benefits, or
who assumes liability to pay or provide benefits, is not subrogated to
a right of recovery of the person referred to in subsection (2).






Subrogation




84

(0.1)


In this section,
"benefits"
means




(a)

benefits within the meaning of section 83 (1), and




(b)

amounts payable under Part 10.




(1)

On paying or providing benefits or insurance money or assuming
liability for paying or providing benefits or insurance money, an
insurer




(a)

is subrogated to and is deemed to be the assignee of all rights of
recovery against any other person liable in respect of the loss,
damage, bodily injury or death of a person to whom, on whose behalf or
in respect of whom the payment or provision of benefits or insurance
money is made or to be made, and




(b)

may bring action in the name of the insured or in its own name to
enforce the rights referred to in paragraph (a).




(1.1)

For certainty, subsection (1) does not apply if benefits paid or
provided, or benefits the insurer is liable to pay or provide, have
been deducted or, but for a settlement, would have been deducted, from
an award of damages under section 83 (5).




(2)

If money is recovered under subsection (1) and the burden of the loss
is shared by the insurer and insured, the net amount, after deduction
of the costs of recovery, must be divided between them in the same
proportions as they bear the loss.




(3)

If the interest of the insured referred to in subsection (1) is
limited to loss of or damage to a vehicle or loss of its use, the
insurer has conduct of the action.




(4)

If the insured's interest is not one described in subsection (3), and
the insured and the insurer cannot agree as to




(a)

the lawyers to be instructed to bring the action in the name of the
insured,




(b)

the conduct of the action or matters pertaining to it,




(c)

an offer of settlement or its apportionment, whether an action has
been commenced or not,




(d)

acceptance of money paid into court or its apportionment,




(e)

apportionment of costs, or




(f)

commencement or continuance of an appeal,


either party may apply to the court for determination of the matters
in question, and the court must make the order it considers reasonable
having regard to the interests of both parties.




(5)

On an application under subsection (4), only the insured and the
insurer are entitled to notice and to be heard, and material or
evidence used or taken on the application is not admissible on the
trial of an action brought by or against the insured or the insurer.




(6)

A settlement or release does not restrict the rights of the insured or
the insurer under this section unless the insured or the insurer, as
the case may be, concurred in it.






Waiver of term or condition




85

(1)


An insurer may for a particular case waive a term or condition of the
plan or an optional insurance contract.




(2)

A term or condition of the plan or an optional insurance contract is
not waived by the insurer in whole or in part unless the waiver is in
writing and signed by a person authorized for that purpose by the
insurer.




(3)

Neither the insurer nor the insured waives any term or condition of
the plan or an optional insurance contract by any act relating to the
appraisal of the amount of loss or to the delivery and completion of
proofs or to the investigation or adjustment of any claim under the
plan or an optional insurance contract.






Effect of payment under the plan or an optional insurance contract




86

(1)


If an insurer makes a payment on behalf of an insured under the plan
or an optional insurance contract to a person who is or alleges to be
entitled to recover from the insured under the plan or optional
insurance contract, the payment




(a)

is not, unless the insurer otherwise agrees, an acknowledgment or
admission of liability, and does not prejudice the rights of the
insured or the insurer, and




(b)

constitutes, to the extent of the payment, a release by the person or
the person's personal representative of any claim that the person or
the personal representative or any person claiming through or under
the person or the personal representative, or by virtue of the

Family Compensation Act

, may have against the insured and the insurer.




(2)

Nothing in this section precludes an insurer making the payment from
demanding, as a condition precedent to the payment, a release from the
person, or the person's personal representative, or any other person,
to the extent of that payment.




(3)

If a person commences an action, the fact of any payment referred to
in subsection (1) must not be disclosed to the court or to the jury,
and the court must adjudicate on the matter without reference to any
payment referred to in that subsection but, after awarding damages and
costs, if any, the payment must be disclosed and must be taken into
account and the person is only entitled to judgment to be entered for
the net amount, if any.






Territorial limits




87


Subject to the regulations, insurance under the plan or an optional
insurance contract applies in respect of bodily injury, death, loss or
damage, or liability arising from bodily injury, death, loss or damage
occurring in Canada or the United States of America or on a vessel
travelling between Canada and the United States of America, but does
not apply elsewhere.






Out of province use




88


Every vehicle liability policy issued in British Columbia must provide
and is deemed to provide that, in the case of liability arising out of
the ownership, use or operation of the vehicle in any other province
or territory of Canada or in any jurisdiction of the United States of
America,




(a)

the insurer is liable up to the minimum limits of loss or liability in
that province, territory or jurisdiction if those limits are higher
than the limits specified in the policy,




(b)

the insurer must not set up any defence to a claim that might not be
set up if the policy were a policy evidencing a contract of vehicle
insurance that provides third party liability insurance coverage
issued in that province, territory or jurisdiction, and




(c)

the insured appoints the insurer the insured's irrevocable attorney to
appear and defend in any other province or territory of Canada or
jurisdiction of the United States of America in which an action is
brought against the insured arising out of the ownership, use or
operation of the vehicle.






Proof of intoxication




89

(1)


In an action, cause or proceeding in which this Act or the regulations
and the plan or an optional insurance contract are invoked and it is
material to establish that a person using or operating a vehicle was
doing so while under the influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs to
such an extent as to be for the time being incapable of the proper
control of the vehicle, proof that the person was convicted of an
offence committed at the material time under section 253 or 254 (5) of
the

Criminal Code

must be admitted, whether or not that person




(a)

is a party to the action, cause or proceeding,




(b)

is a witness at the trial, or




(c)

has first been questioned as to whether the person has been convicted
of that offence.




(2)

For the purpose of subsection (1), a certificate containing the
substance and effect of the conviction and purporting to be signed by
the officer having custody of the records of the court in which the
person was convicted or by the officer's deputy is, on proof of the
identity of the person convicted, sufficient evidence of the
conviction without proof of the signature or official character of the
person by whom the certificate purports to have been signed.






Limitation on recovery for acts of violence




90


If the dominant cause of any bodily injury to or death of a person is
the use of any weapon or any object, other than a vehicle, used as a
weapon,




(a)

the insurer is not liable under this Act, including, without
limitation, under section 20, 24, 76, 77 or 78 or under an optional
insurance contract or the plan, to indemnify or to pay any insurance
money to or on behalf of




(i)

the person using the weapon or object,




(ii)

the person suffering the bodily injury or death, or




(iii)

a spouse, child, parent or personal representative of a person
referred to in subparagraph (i) or (ii), and




(b)

the person using the weapon or object is not a designated defendant,
as that term is defined in section 95, for the purposes of Part 6.






Limitation on recovery in relation to stolen vehicles




91

(1)


This section applies to a person who




(a)

suffered bodily injury, death or loss of or damage to property that is
caused by the use or operation of a vehicle, and




(b)

at the time of the accident as a result of which the bodily injury,
death or loss of or damage to property was suffered, was an operator
of, or a passenger in or on, a vehicle that the person knew or ought
to have known was being operated without the consent of the owner,
and, in the case of a leased motor vehicle, the lessee.




(2)

Despite the

Negligence Act

and section 100 of this Act,




(a)

if 2 or more persons are found at fault for the bodily injury, death
or loss of or damage to property referred to in subsection (1), they
are liable to the person referred to in that subsection for any
damages awarded for that bodily injury, death or loss of or damage to
property in the degree to which they are respectively found to have
been at fault and are not liable to make contribution to and indemnify
each other respecting that liability or any payment made in relation
to it, and




(b)

a person referred to in subsection (1) is not entitled to any recovery
from the corporation under section 20.






Payment to minor




92

(1)


A payment of insurance money for or on behalf of




(a)

a minor, or




(b)

an adult who is incapable of making decisions about the adult's
financial affairs, business or property and does not have




(i)

a committee under the

Patients Property Act

,




(ii)

an attorney under Part 2 of the

Power of Attorney Act

, or




(iii)

a representative having power over the adult's financial affairs under
section 7 (1) (b) of the

Representation Agreement Act

,


must be made to the Public Guardian and Trustee, to be administered as
the Public Guardian and Trustee considers advisable, and the Public
Guardian and Trustee may make arrangements with other persons,
societies or agencies for this purpose.




(2)

[Repealed 2007-34-84.]




(3)

Subsection (1) does not apply to a payment of insurance money made for
or on behalf of a minor as indemnity for the loss of, damage to or the
loss of use of property.






Family exclusion clauses




93


A provision in the plan or an optional insurance contract that the
insurer is not liable to indemnify a person insured under the plan or
optional insurance contract for any liability resulting from bodily
injury to or the death of the child or spouse of that person has no
effect after April 16, 1985, whether the insurance under the plan or
the optional insurance contract took effect before or after that date.






Corporation's collection remedies




93.1

(1)


In this section:


"convicted"
includes




(a)

being found guilty, whether under the

Youth Criminal Justice Act

(Canada) or, before April 1, 2003, under the

Young Offenders Act

(Canada), as it then was, of contravening section 220, 221, 249, 252,
253, 254 (5), 255 (2) or (3), 322, 334, 335, 344, 354, 355, 430, 434
or 435 of the

Criminal Code

, and




(b)

convicted or subject to a similar result in a jurisdiction of the
United States of America under a law similar to the

Youth Criminal Justice Act

(Canada) for contravening a provision of the law of that jurisdiction
that is similar to




(i)

section 220, 221, 249, 252, 253, 254 (5), 255 (2) or (3), 322, 334,
335, 344, 354, 355, 430, 434 or 435 of the

Criminal Code

, or




(ii)

section 224 or 226 of the

Motor Vehicle Act

;



"fine indebtedness"

means the indebtedness referred to in paragraph (f) of the definition
of "vehicle indebtedness";



"vehicle indebtedness"

means




(a)

money owing to the corporation in respect of premiums and related
fees, charges or interest,




(b)

an amount paid by the corporation under section 76 on behalf of an
insured if




(i)

the amount was, under section 76, paid to a person having a claim
referred to in section 76 (2), and




(ii)

the insured




(A)

is, in relation to the accident that resulted in the injury, death or
loss of or damage to property for which the payment was made,
convicted of an offence under section 220, 221, 249, 252, 253 (a) or
255 (2) or (3) of the

Criminal Code

, or of an offence under a provision of the law of the United States
of America that is similar to one of those sections, and the offence
was committed while the insured was operating or having care or
control of a vehicle or by means of a vehicle,




(B)

is convicted of an offence under section 253 (b) of the

Criminal Code

, section 224 of the

Motor Vehicle Act

or a provision of another jurisdiction in Canada or the United States
of America that is similar to either of those sections, and the
accident occurred during the person's commission of the offence and
while the person was operating a vehicle,




(C)

is convicted of an offence under section 254 (5) of the

Criminal Code

, section 226 of the

Motor Vehicle Act

or a provision of the law of another jurisdiction in Canada or the
United States of America that is similar to either of those sections,
and the accident occurred within the 2 hours preceding the person's
commission of the offence and while the person was operating a
vehicle, or




(D)

was, at the time that the accident occurred, operating a vehicle when
not authorized and qualified by law to operate the vehicle,




(c)

money in respect of which rights of recovery are assigned to the
corporation under section 84 if the person against whom the
corporation is entitled to exercise those rights of recovery is, in
relation to the injury, death or loss of or damage to property in
respect of which the money was paid, convicted of an offence under
section 322, 334, 335, 344, 354, 355, 430, 434 or 435 of the

Criminal Code

or of an offence under a provision of the law of the United States of
America that is similar to one of those sections,




(d)

money owing to the corporation under




(i)

any judgment obtained by the corporation, including any order for
costs in favour of the corporation or an insured, or




(ii)

any compensation or restitution order made in favour of the
corporation under section 42.1 (6) of this Act, under the

Criminal Code

or under any other enactment,




(d.1)

a monetary penalty imposed under section 215.44 of the

Motor Vehicle Act

that has not been paid,




(e)

a fee that is prescribed under the

Motor Vehicle Act

, and that has not been paid, for




(i)

the registration of a motor vehicle or trailer,




(ii)

a licence or permit for a motor vehicle or trailer, or




(iii)

a driver's licence, and




(f)

indebtedness to the government because of a failure to pay a fine, or
a victim's surcharge levy within the meaning of the

Victims of Crime Act

, imposed as a result of a conviction under




(i)

a motor vehicle related

Criminal Code

offence, within the meaning of the

Motor Vehicle Act

,




(ii)

the

Motor Vehicle Act

,




(iii)

the

Commercial Transport Act

,




(iv)

the

Motor Fuel Tax Act

,




(v)

the

Highway Act

or the

Transportation Act

,




(vi)

the

Passenger Transportation Act

, or




(vii)

[Repealed 2014-5-46.]




(viii)

[Repealed 2007-14-140.]




(ix)

the

Off-Road Vehicle Act

.




(2)

Subject to subsection (4) but despite any other provision of this Act
or the regulations, if a person is indebted to the government or the
corporation for a vehicle indebtedness, the corporation may do one or
more of the following for so long as any part of the vehicle
indebtedness remains outstanding:




(a)

recover the vehicle indebtedness by action against the debtor in a
court of competent jurisdiction;




(b)

refuse any application made by the debtor for insurance;




(c)

cancel any owner's certificate issued in the debtor's name or any
universal compulsory vehicle insurance issued in the debtor's name;




(d)

issue an owner's certificate or provide universal compulsory vehicle
insurance to the debtor with a term of more than 90 days but less than
one year;




(e)

cancel any driver's certificate issued in the debtor's name;




(f)

issue a driver's certificate to the debtor with a term of more than 90
days but less than 5 years.




(3)

Subject to subsection (4) but despite any other provision of this Act
or the regulations, if a person is required to reimburse the
corporation under section 90 (12) of the

Motor Vehicle Act

, the corporation may exercise one or more of the rights referred to
in subsection (2) (a), (b), (d) or (f) of this section for so long as
any part of that indebtedness remains outstanding.




(4)

Despite subsections (2) and (3), the corporation must not exercise a
right referred to in subsection (2) (b), (c), (d), (e) or (f) unless




(a)

the indebtedness is a fine indebtedness,




(b)

the corporation has a judgment in its favour in relation to the
indebtedness in respect of which it intends to exercise one or more of
those rights, or




(c)

the corporation mails to the debtor, at the debtor's last address
according to the corporation's records, a written demand for payment
of that indebtedness together with a notice of any action the
corporation intends to take under this section, and the debtor does
not, within 30 days after the date of mailing, pay the indebtedness or
make arrangements satisfactory to the corporation for payment of the
indebtedness.




(5)

If money is owed by a debtor to the corporation or the government for
a vehicle indebtedness, to the corporation for a reimbursement
required under section 90 (12) of the

Motor Vehicle Act

or to the corporation for any other reason, the corporation may deduct
the amount of the indebtedness from any insurance money, other than
benefits payable by the corporation to the debtor, whether or not the
corporation has provided a demand to the debtor under subsection (4)
(c) of this section.




(6)

Nothing in this section limits or qualifies any other collection
remedy or right available to the corporation or the government under
this or any other enactment in relation to any indebtedness, including
a vehicle indebtedness, owing by any person to the corporation or to
the government.






Power to make regulations under this Part




94

(1)


Without limiting any power of the Lieutenant Governor in Council to
make regulations under any other Part of this Act, the Lieutenant
Governor in Council may make regulations under this Part as follows:




(a)

respecting the priority of claims under the plan or optional insurance
contracts;




(b)

establishing an amount, or prescribing the manner of determining an
amount, for the purposes of section 82.1 (2) (b);




(c)

prescribing lessors or motor vehicles, or classes of either, for the
purposes of section 82.1 (3) (b);




(d)

prescribing circumstances for the purposes of paragraphs (c) and (f)
of the definition of "benefits" in section 83 (1).




(2)

In making regulations under subsection (1) (c), the Lieutenant
Governor in Council may make different regulations in relation to
lessors and motor vehicles, or classes of either, in different
circumstances.




Part 6 — Vehicle Actions





Definitions




95


In this Part:


"accident"
means an unintentional mishap occurring in British Columbia as a
result of which a person suffers bodily injury, death or loss of or
damage to property that arises out of the use or operation of a
vehicle;



"designated defendants"

, subject to section 90 (b), means, in relation to an accident, the
following persons:




(a)

each owner of a vehicle involved in the accident;




(b)

each operator of or passenger in or on a vehicle involved in the
accident and each person vicariously liable for that individual;




(c)

any other individual who, as a result of that individual's acts or
omissions at the scene of the accident, has some involvement in the
accident and each person vicariously liable for that individual,


and, in relation to a claim made under section 20 or an action brought
under section 24, includes the corporation;



"net income loss"

, in relation to a person who suffered loss of income as a result of
an accident is, for any period,




(a)

if the person is a person referred to in section 2 (1) of the

Income Tax Act

, the gross income that the person lost in that period less the amount
that would have been payable on that gross income for the following:




(i)

income tax under the

Income Tax Act

, as that Act read on December 31 of the calendar year before the
calendar year in respect of which the net income loss is to be
determined, calculated in accordance with the regulations and with
reference to prescribed deductions and tax credits;




(ii)

income tax under the

Income Tax Act

(Canada) as that Act read on December 31 of the calendar year before
the calendar year in respect of which the net income loss is to be
determined, calculated in accordance with the regulations under, and
with reference to deductions and tax credits prescribed under, this
Act;




(iii)

premiums under the

Employment Insurance Act

(Canada), as that Act read on December 31 of the calendar year before
the calendar year in respect of which the net income loss is to be
determined, or




(b)

for any other person, the gross income that the person lost in that
period less the following amounts calculated in accordance with the
regulations under this Act:




(i)

the amount that would have been payable as taxes on that gross income
according to the tax laws in the jurisdiction in which the person is
liable to pay tax on income, as those laws read on December 31 of the
calendar year before the calendar year in respect of which the net
income loss is to be determined, calculated with reference to
deductions and tax credits prescribed under this Act;




(ii)

the premiums or other amounts, if any, that would have been payable in
respect of that gross income according to the laws in the jurisdiction
in which the person is liable to pay tax on income, as those laws read
on December 31 of the calendar year before the calendar year in
respect of which the net income loss is to be determined, for a
purpose similar or equivalent to that of the

Employment Insurance Act

(Canada);



"vehicle action"

means an action brought in British Columbia in which damages are
claimed for bodily injury, death or loss of or damage to property that
arises out of the use or operation of a vehicle.






Alternative dispute resolution




96

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations respecting
mediation in vehicle actions including, without limitation,
regulations




(a)

providing to a party to a vehicle action the ability to require the
parties to engage in mediation and setting out when and how that
ability may be exercised and prescribing any other results that flow
from the exercise of that ability, and




(b)

respecting




(i)

the forms or procedures that must or may be used or followed before,
during and after the mediation process,




(ii)

the requiring and maintaining confidentiality of information disclosed
for the purposes of mediation,




(iii)

the circumstances and manner in which a party to a vehicle action may
opt out of or be exempted from mediation,




(iv)

the costs and other sanctions that may be imposed in relation to
mediation, including, without limitation, in relation to any failure
to participate in mediation when and as required or otherwise to
comply with the regulations,




(v)

the mediators' fees and disbursements, and




(vi)

qualifications required for, and the selection and identification of,
individuals who may act as mediators in the mediation process
contemplated by these regulations.




(2)

If and to the extent that there is any conflict between the
regulations made under subsection (1) and any other enactment,
including, without limitation, the rules of any court, the regulations
made under subsection (1) apply.




(3)

Regulations made under subsection (1) may provide for a mediation
process to be applicable to vehicle actions brought out of one or more
court registries and may be different for vehicle actions brought out
of different court registries.




(4)

Without limiting subsections (1) to (3) or any other enactment and
without limiting the right of the corporation or an insurer to use any
method it considers appropriate to resolve any dispute, the Lieutenant
Governor in Council may make regulations respecting dispute resolution
procedures, including, without limitation, arbitration and mediation
procedures, that the corporation or an insurer may make available to
any person who wishes to use them to resolve disputes in relation to
any insurance money claimed or payable under this Act, or any other
disputes in relation to the administration of this Act and the
regulations.






Application of sections 98 and 100




97


Sections 98 and 100 apply only to causes of action arising out of an
accident that occurs after June 17, 1997.






Recovery for loss of income




98


Despite any other enactment or rule of law but subject to this Part
and section 115, a person who suffers a loss of income as a result of
an accident or, if the person is deceased, the person's personal
representative, is entitled to recover from designated defendants, as
damages for the income loss suffered after the accident and before the
first day of trial of any action brought in relation to it, not more
than the net income loss that the person suffered in that period as a
result of the accident.






Structured judgments




99

(1)


The court must order that an award for pecuniary damages in a vehicle
action be paid periodically, on the terms the court considers just,




(a)

if the award for pecuniary damages is, after section 83 has been
applied, at least $100 000 and the court considers it to be in
the best interests of the plaintiff, or




(b)

if




(i)

the plaintiff requests that an amount be included in the award to
compensate for income tax payable on income from investment of the
award, and




(ii)

the court considers that the order, that the award be paid
periodically, is not contrary to the best interests of the plaintiff.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), the court must not make an order under this
section




(a)

if one or more of the parties in respect of whom the order would be
made satisfies the court that those parties do not have sufficient
means to fund the order, or




(b)

if the court is satisfied that an order to pay the award periodically
would have the effect of preventing the plaintiff or another person
from obtaining full recovery for damages arising out of the accident.




(3)

If the court does not make an order for periodic payments under this
section, it may make an award for damages that includes an amount to
offset liability for income tax on income from investment of the
award.






Apportionment




100

(1)


This section applies in respect of a vehicle action in which the court
determines that loss of income has been caused by the fault of 2 or
more persons at least one of whom is a designated defendant.




(2)

Despite the

Negligence Act

, if, in a vehicle action, the plaintiff is found to be entitled to
recover damages for loss of income suffered after the accident and
before the first day of trial of any action brought in relation to it,




(a)

all of the defendants whom the court determines were at fault for that
loss of income are liable, in accordance with the

Negligence Act

, to the plaintiff for the net income loss that the plaintiff suffered
in that period as a result of the accident, and




(b)

the court must determine the degree to which defendants who are not
designated defendants were at fault for that loss of income, and those
defendants




(i)

are liable, in accordance with the

Negligence Act

, for that portion of the difference between




(A)

the net income loss that the plaintiff suffered in that period as a
result of the accident, and




(B)

the gross income that the plaintiff would have earned in that period
had the accident not occurred


that is proportionate to the degree to which those defendants are
determined to be at fault for the loss of income, and




(ii)

are not entitled to seek contribution or indemnification from
designated defendants respecting that liability or any payment made in
relation to it.




Part 7 — Minor Injuries





Definitions and interpretation




101

(1)


In this Part:


"accident"
means an accident occurring in British Columbia that is caused by a
vehicle or the use or operation of a vehicle as a result of which a
person suffers bodily injury;


"claimant"
means a person who claims damages for non-pecuniary loss for a bodily
injury resulting from an accident;



"diagnostic and treatment protocol"

means a protocol prescribed for the purposes of examining, assessing,
diagnosing and treating a minor injury;



"minor injury"

means a physical or mental injury, whether or not chronic, that




(a)

subject to subsection (2), does not result in a serious impairment or
a permanent serious disfigurement of the claimant, and




(b)

is one of the following:




(i)

an abrasion, a contusion, a laceration, a sprain or a strain;




(ii)

a pain syndrome;




(iii)

a psychological or psychiatric condition;




(iv)

a prescribed injury or an injury in a prescribed type or class of
injury;



"permanent serious disfigurement"

, in relation to a claimant, means a permanent disfigurement that,
having regard to any prescribed criteria, significantly detracts from
the claimant's physical appearance;



"serious impairment"

, in relation to a claimant, means a physical or mental impairment
that




(a)

is not resolved within 12 months, or another prescribed period, if
any, after the date of an accident, and




(b)

meets prescribed criteria.




(2)

Subject to subsection (3) and the regulations, an injury that, at the
time of the accident or when it first manifested, was an injury within
the definition of "minor injury" in subsection (1) is deemed to be a
minor injury if




(a)

the claimant, without reasonable excuse, fails to seek a diagnosis or
comply with treatment in accordance with a diagnostic and treatment
protocol prescribed for the injury, and




(b)

the injury




(i)

results in a serious impairment or a permanent serious disfigurement
of the claimant, or




(ii)

develops into an injury other than an injury within the definition of
"minor injury" in subsection (1).




(3)

An injury is not deemed, under subsection (2), to be a minor injury if
the claimant establishes that either of the circumstances referred to
in subsection (2) (b) would have resulted even if the claimant had
sought a diagnosis and complied with treatment in accordance with a
diagnostic and treatment protocol prescribed for the injury.




(4)

For the purposes of this Part, a minor injury includes a symptom or a
condition associated with the injury whether or not the symptom or
condition resolves within 12 months, or another prescribed period, if
any, after the date of an accident.






Application of this Part




102


This Part applies to an accident occurring on or after April 1, 2019.






Limit on non-pecuniary loss for minor injuries




103

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), the amount recoverable by a claimant as
damages for non-pecuniary loss arising from one or more minor injuries
suffered by the claimant in a single accident must be calculated or
determined in accordance with the regulations.




(2)

The amount recoverable by a claimant under subsection (1) must be
reduced in proportion to the claimant's degree of fault, if any, in
the accident.






Power to make regulations under this Part




104

(1)


Without limiting any power of the Lieutenant Governor in Council to
make regulations under any other Part of this Act, the Lieutenant
Governor in Council may make regulations under this Part as follows:




(a)

respecting the examination and assessment of injuries, the
determination of whether an injury is a minor injury and the onus of
proof on such a determination;




(b)

respecting the examination, assessment, diagnosis and treatment of
minor injuries, including, without limitation,




(i)

establishing or adopting procedures, guidelines, criteria,
requirements or standards to be followed or met, as applicable, by
claimants, insurers and prescribed health care practitioners, and




(ii)

establishing time limits for the purposes of obtaining an examination,
assessment, diagnosis or treatment;




(c)

prescribing circumstances in which a prescribed diagnostic and
treatment protocol applies and providing when a protocol no longer
applies;




(d)

governing the roles, in relation to a protocol, of claimants, insurers
and prescribed health care practitioners and imposing limits on those
roles;




(e)

respecting treatment plans for a minor injury and respecting the
number and type of treatments for a minor injury, including, without
limitation, prescribing different numbers or types of treatments for
different circumstances;




(f)

respecting referrals, including referrals to a person in a prescribed
class of persons, for the purposes of obtaining an opinion about




(i)

the examination, assessment or diagnosis of an injury,




(ii)

the treatment plan for a minor injury, or




(iii)

the condition of a claimant;




(g)

for the purposes of paragraph (f),




(i)

prescribing a class of persons,




(ii)

requiring the establishment and maintenance of a register of persons
in the class,




(iii)

prescribing requirements and qualifications for persons in the class,




(iv)

requiring treatment plans from persons in the class, and




(v)

requiring reports from persons in the class and establishing the form
of, and information to be included in, those reports;




(h)

respecting procedures and conditions for the making of claims to, and
the refusal and payment of claims by, an insurer, including, without
limitation, establishing circumstances in which claims are deemed to
have been approved;




(i)

establishing forms for claims and treatment plans or authorizing the
corporation to establish forms for claims and treatment plans;




(j)

prescribing injuries or types or classes of injuries for the purposes
of the definition of "minor injury" in section 101 (1);




(k)

respecting criteria for the purposes of the definition of "permanent
serious disfigurement" in section 101 (1);




(l)

respecting criteria and prescribing a period for the purposes of the
definition of "serious impairment" in section 101 (1);




(m)

respecting circumstances in which an injury or an injury in a
prescribed class of injuries, or a claimant or a claimant in a
prescribed class of claimants, will be exempt from the application of
section 101 (2);




(n)

for the purposes of section 103 (1), respecting damages for
non-pecuniary loss for a minor injury, including, without limitation,
establishing an amount of damages or a limit on damages for a minor
injury arising out of an accident in which a claimant suffers




(i)

a minor injury and an injury that is not minor, or




(ii)

only a minor injury.




(2)

A regulation under subsection (1) (b) (i) may adopt by reference, in
whole or in part and with any change the Lieutenant Governor in
Council considers necessary, any procedures, guidelines, criteria,
requirements or standards published by a body, or person with a
professional designation, approved by the Lieutenant Governor in
Council for the purposes of this section.




(3)

Procedures, guidelines, criteria, requirements or standards adopted
under subsection (2) may be adopted as they stand at the time of
adoption or as amended from time to time.




(4)

A regulation under subsection (1) (n) may be different in respect of
accidents occurring on or after different dates or in different
periods.




Part 8





Repealed




105-106


[Repealed 2020-10-31.]




Part 9 — Pre-Litigation Payments





Definitions




107


In this Part:


"accident"
means an accident occurring in British Columbia in which there is
bodily injury or death arising out of the use or operation of a
vehicle;


"court"
includes the civil resolution tribunal in respect of applicable
accident claims under the

Civil Resolution Tribunal Act

;



"pre-litigation payment"

means a payment made under section 109.






Offer to make pre-litigation payment




108

(1)


Subject to section 110, the corporation may, in accordance with this
section, offer to make a pre-litigation payment to a person who has a
right of action against an insured or the corporation respecting an
accident.




(2)

The corporation may not make an offer under this section that exceeds
the corporation's reasonable assessment of the value of the amount the
person could recover in an action.




(3)

An offer under this section must




(a)

be made in writing, and




(b)

contain a statement that the offer is made under this Part.






Pre-litigation payment




109


If the corporation makes an offer to a person under section 108, the
corporation may, subject to section 110, make a payment to the person
in accordance with the offer.






Restriction on offer or pre-litigation payment




110


The corporation may make




(a)

an offer under section 108, or




(b)

a pre-litigation payment


only if the corporation is satisfied that the person has not commenced
an action against an insured or the corporation respecting the
accident.






Consequences of offer and payment of pre-litigation payment




111


An offer under section 108 or a pre-litigation payment is not an
acknowledgment or admission of liability, including for the purposes
of the

Limitation Act

, and does not prejudice the rights of the insured or the corporation.






Non-disclosure to court and deduction




112

(1)


If a person to whom an offer under section 108 or a pre-litigation
payment was made commences an action respecting an accident, there
must be no reference to or disclosure of any of the following matters
to the court or jury until the award of damages has been assessed:




(a)

the fact that the offer of a pre-litigation payment was made;




(b)

the fact that a pre-litigation payment was made;




(c)

the amount of the offer or pre-litigation payment.




(2)

After the award of damages has been assessed,




(a)

the amount of a pre-litigation payment, if any, must be disclosed to
the court,




(b)

the court must take the disclosure into account and deduct the
pre-litigation payment from the award of damages, and




(c)

an order must be made or a judgment entered for the difference only.




(3)

If the difference determined for the purpose of subsection (2) is
negative,




(a)

the court must not make an order for the payment of damages, and




(b)

the corporation is not entitled to repayment of the difference.




(4)

The determination of whether a party is entitled to costs and the
assessment of those costs must be based on the assessment of the award
of damages and not on the difference determined for the purpose of
subsection (2).




Part 10 — Enhanced Accident Benefits and Limits on Actions and
Proceedings



Division 1 — Definitions and Application





Definitions




113


In this Part:


"accident"
means an accident in which there is bodily injury caused by a vehicle;



"bodily injury"

means any physical or mental injury, including death;



"bodily injury caused by a vehicle"

means bodily injury caused by a vehicle or the use or operation of a
vehicle;



"catastrophic injury"

has the prescribed meaning;


"deceased"
means an insured who died as a result of the accident;


"dependant"
means




(a)

a dependent child,




(b)

a dependent parent, and




(c)

a person in a prescribed class of persons;



"dependent child"

means any of the following:




(a)

a person under 19 years of age for whose support an insured is legally
liable and who is dependent on the insured for financial support;




(b)

a person who, on the date that a benefit under this Part becomes
payable, is 19 years of age or older and who resides with an insured
and receives the majority of the person's financial support from the
insured because of the person's mental or physical disability;




(c)

a person in a prescribed class of persons;



"dependent parent"

means a parent, including a spouse of a parent, of an insured, who, on
the date that a benefit under this Part becomes payable, resides with
the insured and the majority of whose financial support is from the
insured;



"educational institution"

has the prescribed meaning;


"employment"
means a remunerative occupation;



"excluded vehicle"

means




(a)

a vehicle that could not be licensed under the

Motor Vehicle Act

or the

Commercial Transport Act

, or that is of such a design that, if it were owned or operated in
British Columbia, it could not be licensed under either of those Acts,
and




(b)

a vehicle in a prescribed class of vehicles


but does not include a vehicle in a prescribed class of vehicles;



"full-time basis"

has the prescribed meaning;



"full-time earner"

means an insured, other than a minor or student, who, at the time of
the accident, holds regular employment on a full-time basis;


"insured"
means an individual who, under section 118, 119 or 119.1, is entitled
to benefits under this Part;


"minor"
means an insured who is under 19 years of age at the time of the
accident;


"non-earner"
means an insured, other than a minor, a student or an insured in a
prescribed class of insureds, who, at the time of the accident, does
not hold employment but is able to work, and includes an insured in a
prescribed class of insureds;



"non-standard motor vehicle"

means




(a)

a motor vehicle




(i)

that, as manufactured, does not conform to the standards set out in
the

Motor Vehicle Safety Act

(Canada) for motor vehicles for highway use, and




(ii)

that could be licensed under the

Motor Vehicle Act

or the

Commercial Transport Act

, or that is of such a design that, if it were owned or operated in
British Columbia, it could be licensed under either of those Acts, and




(b)

a motor vehicle in a prescribed class of motor vehicles


but does not include a motor vehicle in a prescribed class of motor
vehicles;



"part-time basis"

has the prescribed meaning;



"part-time earner"

means an insured, other than a minor or student, who, at the time of
the accident, holds regular employment on a part-time basis;



"post-secondary educational institution"

has the prescribed meaning;


"student"
means an insured who, at the time of the accident, is




(a)

19 years of age or older and attending a secondary school or
post-secondary educational institution on a full-time basis, or




(b)

a minor who has completed the requirements for graduation from
secondary school and is attending a post-secondary educational
institution on a full-time basis;



"temporary basis"

has the prescribed meaning;



"temporary earner"

means an insured, other than a minor or student, who, at the time of
the accident, holds regular employment on a temporary basis.






Application of this Part




114

(1)


This Part applies to an accident occurring on or after May 1, 2021.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), this Part does not apply to a prescribed
bodily injury or bodily injury sustained in a prescribed circumstance
or to the following types of accidents:




(a)

only one vehicle is involved in the accident, and the vehicle is




(i)

an excluded vehicle and the accident




(A)

occurs off-highway, or




(B)

occurs on a highway and no permit has been issued under the

Motor Vehicle Act

or the

Commercial Transport Act

for the vehicle to be on the portion of the highway where the accident
occurs,




(ii)

a non-standard motor vehicle, if the accident occurs off-highway, or




(iii)

a trailer that is not an excluded vehicle, if the accident occurs
off-highway;




(b)

more than one vehicle is involved in the accident, each of the
vehicles is a vehicle referred to in paragraph (a) and the accident
occurs as described in that paragraph respecting the vehicle;




(c)

the accident occurs in the prescribed circumstances or involves the
prescribed vehicles.




Division 2 — Limits on Actions and Proceedings





No actions or proceedings for bodily injury




115


Despite any other law or enactment but subject to this Part,




(a)

a person has no right of action and must not commence or maintain
proceedings respecting bodily injury caused by a vehicle arising out
of an accident, and




(b)

no action or proceeding may be commenced or maintained respecting
bodily injury caused by a vehicle arising out of an accident.






Exceptions




116

(1)


In this section:



"garage service operator"

has the prescribed meaning;



"out-of-province owner"

means a person who has ownership of a vehicle in a jurisdiction
outside British Columbia in accordance with the law of that
jurisdiction;



"voluntary occupant"

means a person who is a voluntary operator of, or a voluntary
passenger in or on, a vehicle that the person knew or ought to have
known was being operated without the consent of the owner, the
out-of-province owner or, in the case of a leased vehicle, the renter
named in the owner's certificate.




(2)

Subject to the regulations and subsection (3), section 115 does not
apply to an action or proceeding for non-pecuniary damages and
punitive, exemplary or other similar non-compensatory damages against
any of the following:




(a)

a vehicle manufacturer, respecting its business activities and role as
a manufacturer;




(b)

a person who is in the business of selling vehicles, respecting the
person's business activities and role as a seller;




(c)

a maker or supplier of vehicle parts, respecting its business
activities and role as a maker or supplier;




(d)

a garage service operator, respecting its business activities and role
as a garage service operator;




(e)

a licensee within the meaning of the

Liquor Control and Licensing Act

whose licence authorizes a patron to consume liquor in the service
area under the licence, respecting the licensee's role as a licensee
in the sale or service of liquor to a patron;




(f)

a person whose use or operation of a vehicle




(i)

caused bodily injury, and




(ii)

results in the person's conviction of a prescribed

Criminal Code

offence;




(g)

a person in a prescribed class of persons.




(3)

Despite the

Negligence Act

, in an action referred to in subsection (2) of this section, if 2 or
more persons are responsible for bodily injury, they are liable to the
person who sustained the bodily injury for any damages awarded for
that bodily injury in the degree to which they are respectively
responsible, and are not liable to make contribution to and indemnify
each other respecting that liability or any payment made in relation
to it.




(4)

Despite any other law or enactment, in an action referred to in
subsection (2) (f) or (g), a person who would, but for this
subsection, be vicariously liable for the use or operation referred to
in subsection (2) (f) or (g) is absolved from that vicarious
liability.




(5)

Despite subsection (2), section 115 applies to an action or proceeding
described in subsection (2) of this section commenced or maintained by
a voluntary occupant.




(6)

Section 83 does not apply to an action referred to in subsection (2)
of this section.




Division 3 — Entitlement and Matters Affecting Entitlement





Enhanced accident benefits




117


Subject to this Part, benefits under this Part are payable by the
corporation regardless of who is responsible for the accident.






Enhanced accident benefits for residents




118


Subject to this Part and the regulations, an individual who is a
resident at the time of an accident is entitled to benefits under this
Part if




(a)

the individual sustains bodily injury caused by a vehicle arising out
of the accident, and




(b)

the accident occurs in Canada or the United States of America or on a
vessel travelling between Canada and the United States of America.






Enhanced accident benefits for non-residents




119

(1)


In this section and section 119.1,
"specified vehicle"
means a vehicle




(a)

that is licensed under the

Motor Vehicle Act

or the

Commercial Transport Act

, or




(b)

for which a permit has been issued under the

Motor Vehicle Act

or the

Commercial Transport Act

,


and coverage is provided by a certificate with respect to that
vehicle.




(2)

Subject to this Part and the regulations, an individual who is not a
resident at the time of an accident and who sustains bodily injury
caused by a vehicle arising out of the accident is entitled to
benefits under this Part if either of the following is the case:




(a)

the accident occurs in British Columbia and at the time of the
accident the individual is one or more of the following:




(i)

an owner;




(ii)

a renter named in an owner's certificate;




(iii)

an operator or occupant of a specified vehicle that is involved in the
accident;




(iv)

an individual who is not an operator or occupant of a vehicle and is
struck by




(A)

a specified vehicle, or




(B)

something other than a vehicle because of a specified vehicle;




(v)

neither an owner nor a renter named in an owner's certificate and the
individual is either




(A)

an operator or occupant of a vehicle that is not a specified vehicle,
or




(B)

not an operator or occupant of a vehicle and is struck by a vehicle
that is not a specified vehicle or by something other than a vehicle
because of a vehicle that is not a specified vehicle;




(vi)

an individual other than an individual referred to in subparagraphs
(i) to (v);




(b)

the accident occurs outside British Columbia but otherwise within the
area described in section 118 and the individual is both of the
following:




(i)

an owner or a renter named in an owner's certificate;




(ii)

either




(A)

an operator or occupant of a specified vehicle or a prescribed
vehicle, or




(B)

an individual who is neither an operator nor an occupant of a vehicle
and is struck by a vehicle described in clause (A) or is struck by
something other than a vehicle because of a vehicle described in
clause (A).




(3)

An individual referred to in subsection (2) (a) (v) or (vi) is
entitled to benefits only to the extent, expressed as a percentage,
that the individual is not responsible for the accident.






Benefits provided by a certificate




119.1


Despite any other provision of this Act and subject to the
regulations, in the following circumstances, an individual is not
entitled under section 118 or 119, or any other section of this Part,
to benefits under this Part, but the following individuals are
conclusively deemed to be provided those benefits by a certificate if,
as determined in accordance with the regulations, the certificate
evidences Part 10 coverage:




(a)

for an accident occurring within the area described in section 118,
benefits are provided by a certificate to an individual who is a
resident at the time of the accident, sustains bodily injury caused by
a vehicle and




(i)

is an owner or a renter named in an owner's certificate,




(ii)

is a member of the household of an individual referred to in
subparagraph (i),




(iii)

is an operator or occupant of a specified vehicle, or




(iv)

is not an operator or occupant of a vehicle and is struck by




(A)

a specified vehicle, or




(B)

something other than a vehicle because of a specified vehicle;




(b)

for an accident occurring in British Columbia, benefits are provided
by a certificate to an individual who is not a resident at the time of
the accident, sustains bodily injury caused by a vehicle and is




(i)

an owner or a renter named in an owner's certificate,




(ii)

an operator or occupant of a specified vehicle, or




(iii)

an individual who is not an operator or occupant of a vehicle and is
struck by




(A)

a specified vehicle, or




(B)

something other than a vehicle because of a specified vehicle;




(c)

for an accident occurring outside British Columbia but otherwise
within the area described in section 118, benefits are provided by a
certificate to an individual who is not a resident at the time of the
accident, sustains bodily injury caused by a vehicle and is both of
the following:




(i)

an owner or a renter named in an owner's certificate;




(ii)

either




(A)

an operator or occupant of a specified vehicle or a prescribed
vehicle, or




(B)

an individual who is neither an operator nor an occupant of a vehicle
and is struck by a vehicle described in clause (A) or is struck by
something other than a vehicle because of a vehicle described in
clause (A).






Corporation's duty respecting benefits




120


The corporation must




(a)

advise and assist an individual with making a claim for benefits under
this Part, and




(b)

endeavour to ensure that the individual is informed about, and
receives, benefits payable to the individual under this Part.






Circumstances in which benefits reduced, suspended or cancelled or in
which benefits not paid




121

(1)


Subject to the regulations, the corporation may reduce, suspend or
cancel, or refuse to pay, benefits under this Part to or on behalf of
an insured in the following circumstances:




(a)

the accident was wilfully caused by the insured;




(b)

the insured's bodily injury was wilfully caused by the insured;




(c)

the insured knowingly provides false or inaccurate information to the
corporation;




(d)

the insured fails to comply with a requirement of the corporation
under section 11;




(e)

the insured fails to comply with prescribed requirements;




(f)

prescribed circumstances.




(2)

Section 75 does not apply to a claim for benefits in the circumstances
described in subsection (1) of this section.






Other sources




122

(1)


In this section but subject to subsection (1.1),
"other compensation"
, in relation to bodily injury caused by a vehicle arising out of an
accident, means amounts paid or payable, or things or services
provided or to be provided in kind, directly or indirectly, whether or
not as a result of a right of indemnity, for a loss or expense similar
to a loss or expense covered under this Part, where the amounts,
things or services are paid or provided




(a)

under the

Workers Compensation Act

or a similar law of another jurisdiction,




(b)

under a prescribed compensation plan or scheme,




(c)

from a prescribed insurance coverage,




(d)

from a prescribed source,




(e)

under a prescribed enactment, or




(f)

under a prescribed law of a jurisdiction outside British Columbia.




(1.1)

Other compensation, as defined in subsection (1), does not include a
prescribed plan, scheme, coverage, source, enactment or law or a
prescribed portion of a plan, scheme, coverage, source, enactment or
law.




(2)

The corporation must not pay a benefit under this Part in relation to
an accident to a person entitled to other compensation for the same
accident, except to the extent that the amount of the benefit payable
under this Part exceeds the value of the other compensation, if the
other compensation is similar to the benefit payable under this Part,
the similarity determined in accordance with the regulations,
if any.




(3)

Subsection (2) applies even if the person has elected not to claim or
has forfeited the person's claim for other compensation.




(4)

[Repealed 2021-23-8.]




(5)

If there is a dispute respecting an individual's entitlement to other
compensation or the priority of other compensation and benefits under
this Part, the corporation, despite subsection (2), may pay or
reimburse, without prejudice to the corporation's rights under
subsection (6), some or all of the amount in dispute as if the amount
were benefits.




(6)

On paying or reimbursing an amount under subsection (5), to the extent
the amount was paid or reimbursed, the corporation




(a)

is subrogated to and is deemed to be the assignee of all rights of the
individual to the other compensation from the provider of the other
compensation, and




(b)

may bring an action in the name of the individual or in its own name
to enforce those rights.




(7)

For certainty, subsection (6) does not prejudice any other claims of
an individual against the corporation or the provider of the other
compensation.




Division 4 — Health Care, Rehabilitation and Related Benefits





Health care and related expenses benefit




123

(1)


Subject to the regulations and subsection (2), an insured is entitled
to the payment or reimbursement of reasonable expenses incurred by the
insured respecting the insured's bodily injury for necessary




(a)

health care,




(b)

prescribed services, and




(c)

prescribed equipment, medication and other things.




(2)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations respecting how
the corporation must calculate and determine an amount to which an
insured is entitled under subsection (1).






Rehabilitation




124


Subject to the regulations, the corporation may do anything it
considers necessary or advisable, including the payment of money, to
contribute to the rehabilitation of an insured and to facilitate the
insured's recovery from the insured's bodily injury.






Other related expenses




125

(1)


Subject to the regulations, if an insured is unable because of the
insured's bodily injury to perform activities of daily living without
assistance, the insured is entitled to the payment or reimbursement,
up to a maximum of the prescribed amount, of reasonable and necessary
expenses incurred by the insured to assist with activities of daily
living.




(2)

Subject to the regulations, if the corporation pays or reimburses an
insured under section 123 or contributes to rehabilitation respecting
an insured under section 124, the insured is entitled to the payment
or reimbursement of reasonable and necessary transportation, lodging
and meal expenses incurred by the insured to receive the care,
service, thing or rehabilitation.




(3)

Subject to the regulations and subsection (4), an individual is
entitled to reimbursement of reasonable and necessary transportation,
lodging and meal expenses incurred by the individual to accompany an
insured to receive the care, service, thing or rehabilitation, as
described in subsection (2), if that accompaniment is required because
of the physical or mental condition of the insured or the insured's
age.




(4)

The corporation may not under subsection (3) reimburse more than one
individual for each required accompaniment.




(5)

Subject to the regulations and subsection (6), an individual is
entitled to reimbursement of reasonable and necessary transportation,
lodging and meal expenses incurred by the individual to attend an
insured receiving critical care because of the insured's bodily
injury.




(6)

The corporation may not under subsection (5) reimburse more than 2
individuals per insured.




(7)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations respecting how
the corporation must calculate and determine an amount to which an
insured is entitled under subsection (1), (2), (3) or (5).






Recreation benefit




126

(1)


In this section,
"eligible insured"
means an insured in a prescribed class of insureds.




(2)

Subject to the regulations, the corporation may pay an eligible
insured, or reimburse an eligible insured, up to a maximum of the
prescribed amount, for reasonable expenses incurred by the eligible
insured to facilitate the eligible insured's participation in
recreation activities.






Expenses generally




127

(1)


Subject to the regulations, the corporation may pay an insured, or
reimburse an insured, for reasonable expenses incurred by the insured
in relation to an accident, if those expenses are within a prescribed
category of expenses.




(2)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations respecting how
the corporation must calculate and determine an amount to which an
insured is entitled under subsection (1).






Prescribed maximum benefits




128


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may prescribe a maximum amount for
the total combined benefits payable to or on behalf of an insured
under sections 123 to 127, which must be not less than
$7 500 000 for each accident in which the insured sustains
bodily injury.




Division 5 — Permanent Impairment Compensation





Permanent impairment compensation




129

(1)


Subject to the regulations and section 130, if an insured sustains a
permanent impairment as a result of the accident, the insured is
entitled to a lump sum payment for the permanent impairment.




(2)

The corporation must calculate and determine the permanent impairment
compensation to which the insured is entitled under subsection (1) in
accordance with the regulations.






If insured dies




130

(1)


If the insured dies of a cause related to the accident, the
corporation must not make a lump sum payment for the permanent
impairment under this Division.




(2)

If the insured dies of a cause unrelated to the accident and the
insured has a permanent impairment as a result of the accident on the
date of the insured's death, the corporation must




(a)

estimate the amount of the lump sum payment that would have been
payable to the insured for the permanent impairment under section 129
if the insured had not died, and




(b)

make that lump sum payment to the insured's estate.




Division 6 — Income Replacement Benefits — Earners and Non-Earners





Full-time earners




131

(1)


Subject to the regulations, a full-time earner is entitled to an
income replacement benefit if any of the following is the case because
of the full-time earner's bodily injury:




(a)

the full-time earner is unable to continue the full-time employment;




(b)

the full-time earner is unable to continue any other employment that
the full-time earner held in addition to the full-time employment the
full-time earner held at the time of the accident;




(c)

the full-time earner is deprived of a benefit under the

Employment Insurance Act

(Canada) to which the full-time earner was entitled at the time of the
accident.




(2)

The corporation must calculate and determine the income replacement
benefit for a full-time earner to which the insured is entitled under
subsection (1) in accordance with the regulations.






Special circumstances




132

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), if the corporation is satisfied that a
full-time earner who is entitled to an income replacement benefit
under section 131 would have held a more remunerative employment at
the time of the accident than the full-time earner held at the time of
the accident but for special circumstances, the full-time earner is
entitled to receive an income replacement benefit under section 131
determined on the basis of the gross income for that employment.




(2)

The employment referred to in subsection (1) must be full-time
employment that is compatible with the training, experience and
abilities of the full-time earner immediately before the accident.






Temporary earners and part-time earners




133

(1)


Subject to the regulations, a temporary earner or part-time earner is
entitled to an income replacement benefit if any of the following is
the case because of the temporary earner's or part-time earner's
bodily injury:




(a)

the temporary earner or part-time earner is unable to continue the
employment or to hold an employment that the temporary earner or
part-time earner would have held during a prescribed period if the
accident had not occurred;




(b)

the temporary earner or part-time earner is deprived of a benefit
under the

Employment Insurance Act

(Canada) to which the temporary earner or part-time earner was
entitled at the time of the accident.




(2)

The corporation must calculate and determine the income replacement
benefit for a temporary earner or part-time earner to which the
temporary earner or part-time earner is entitled under subsection (1)
in accordance with the regulations.






Non-earners




134

(1)


Subject to the regulations, a non-earner is entitled to an income
replacement benefit if any of the following is the case because of the
non-earner's bodily injury:




(a)

the non-earner is unable to hold an employment that the non-earner
would have held during a prescribed period if the accident had not
occurred;




(b)

the non-earner is deprived of a benefit under the

Employment Insurance Act

(Canada) to which the non-earner was entitled at the time of the
accident.




(2)

During the time that a non-earner is entitled to an income replacement
benefit under both paragraphs (a) and (b) of subsection (1), the
non-earner is entitled to whichever income replacement benefit is the
greater.




(3)

The corporation must calculate and determine the income replacement
benefit for a non-earner to which the non-earner is entitled in
accordance with the regulations.




Division 7 — Benefits for Students





Definitions




135


In this Division:



"current studies"

has the prescribed meaning;



"specified date"

means the date by which the corporation is satisfied that, but for the
accident, a student would have completed current studies.






Student entitled to loss-of-studies benefit




136

(1)


Subject to the regulations, a student is entitled to a loss-of-studies
benefit for the time that the student is unable because of the
student's bodily injury to begin or continue current studies on a
full-time basis.




(2)

The corporation must calculate and determine the loss-of-studies
benefit to which the student is entitled under subsection (1) in
accordance with the regulations.






Student entitled to income replacement benefit




137

(1)


[Repealed 2021-23-12.]




(2)

Subject to the regulations, a student is entitled to an income
replacement benefit after the accident if any of the following is the
case because of the student's bodily injury:




(a)

the student is unable to hold an employment that the student would
have held if the accident had not occurred;




(b)

the student is deprived of a benefit under the

Employment Insurance Act

(Canada) to which the student was entitled at the time of the
accident.




(3)

The corporation must calculate and determine the benefit to which the
student is entitled under subsection (2) in accordance with the
regulations.






Benefit for student unable to begin or continue studies




138

(1)


Subject to the regulations, a student who, after the specified date,
because of the student's bodily injury,




(a)

is unable to begin or continue current studies, and




(b)

is unable to hold employment


is entitled to an income replacement benefit for the time that the
student remains unable to hold employment because of the student's
bodily injury.




(2)

The corporation must calculate and determine the benefit to which the
student is entitled under subsection (1) in accordance with the
regulations.






Benefit for student able to begin or continue studies




139

(1)


Subject to the regulations, a student who begins or continues current
studies after an accident but who is unable because of the student's
bodily injury to hold employment after completing or ending current
studies is entitled to an income replacement benefit from the date
that the student completes or ends current studies for the time that
the student is unable to hold employment because of the student's
bodily injury.




(2)

The corporation must calculate and determine the benefit to which the
student is entitled under subsection (1) in accordance with the
regulations.




Division 8 — Benefits for Minors





Definitions




140


In this Division:



"applicable period"

means the period that starts on the date of the accident and ends on
June 30 of the school year in which the minor reaches 18 years of age;



"school year"

has the same meaning as in the

School Act

.






Minor entitled to loss-of-studies benefit




141

(1)


Subject to the regulations, a minor is entitled to a loss-of-studies
benefit for the time the minor is unable because of the minor's bodily
injury to begin or continue studies at an educational institution.




(2)

The corporation must calculate and determine the benefit under
subsection (1) in accordance with the regulations.






Minor entitled to income replacement benefit




142

(1)


Subject to the regulations, a minor is entitled to an income
replacement benefit after the accident if any of the following is the
case because of the minor's bodily injury:




(a)

the minor is unable to hold an employment that the minor would have
held if the accident had not occurred;




(b)

the minor is deprived of a benefit under the

Employment Insurance Act

(Canada) to which the minor was entitled at the time of the accident.




(2)

The corporation must calculate and determine the benefit to which the
minor is entitled under subsection (1) in accordance with the
regulations.






Benefit for minor unable to begin or continue studies




143

(1)


Subject to the regulations, a minor who, from the end of the school
year in which the minor reaches 18 years of age, because of the
minor's bodily injury,




(a)

is unable to begin or continue the minor's studies, and




(b)

is unable to hold employment


is entitled to an income replacement benefit for the time that the
minor remains unable to hold employment because of the minor's bodily
injury.




(2)

The corporation must calculate and determine the benefit to which the
minor is entitled under subsection (1) in accordance with the
regulations.






Benefit for minor able to begin or continue studies




144

(1)


Subject to the regulations, a minor who begins or continues the
minor's studies after the accident but who, because of the minor's
bodily injury, is unable to hold employment after completing or ending
those studies is entitled to an income replacement benefit from the
completion or end of those studies and for the time that the minor
remains unable to hold employment because of the minor's bodily
injury.




(2)

The corporation must calculate and determine the benefit to which the
minor is entitled under subsection (1) in accordance with the
regulations.




Division 9 — Income Replacement Benefits — General





Persons incapable of holding employment




145


Despite Division 6 of this Part, an insured who the corporation is
satisfied was regularly incapable before the accident of holding
employment for any reason except age is not entitled to an income
replacement benefit.






Events that suspend or end entitlement




146

(1)


Subject to the regulations, the corporation must suspend an income
replacement benefit




(a)

while the insured is able to hold the employment that the insured held
at the time of the accident, or




(b)

[Repealed 2021-23-17.]




(c)

in the prescribed circumstances.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), an insured is entitled, in the prescribed
circumstances, to continue to receive for the prescribed period of
time, which may be no longer than one year from the date that, but for
this subsection, the benefit would have been suspended under
subsection (1), all or a portion of the insured's income replacement
benefit, as determined in accordance with the regulations.




(3)

Subject to the regulations, the corporation must cancel an income
replacement benefit




(a)

when the insured dies, and




(b)

in the prescribed circumstances.






Benefit reduction if person earns reduced income




147


Subject to the regulations, if an insured who is entitled to an income
replacement benefit holds employment from which the insured earns a
gross income that is less than the gross income used by the
corporation to calculate and determine the insured's income
replacement benefit, the income replacement benefit must be reduced by
the prescribed percentage of the net income that the insured earns
from the employment.




Division 10 — Retirement Income Benefit





No entitlement for unemployed person 65 years or older




148


Despite any other provision of this Part, an insured who, on the date
of the accident, is 65 years of age or older and does not hold
employment is not entitled to an income replacement benefit or a
retirement income benefit.






When income replacement benefit ceases




149


An insured who is receiving an income replacement benefit under this
Part ceases to be entitled to receive the benefit on the first June 30
following the later of




(a)

the date on which the insured reaches the age of 65, and




(b)

the date that is 5 years after the date on which the insured's
entitlement to receive the benefit began.






Retirement income benefit after age 65




150

(1)


Subject to the regulations, on ceasing to be entitled to receive an
income replacement benefit as set out in section 149, an insured is
entitled to be paid a retirement income benefit.




(2)

The corporation must calculate and determine the retirement income
benefit to which the insured is entitled under subsection (1) in
accordance with the regulations.




(3)

An insured ceases to be entitled to a retirement income benefit when
the insured dies.




Division 11 — Family and Caregiver Benefits





Reimbursement of expenses respecting family enterprise




151

(1)


Subject to the regulations, if an insured is, at the time of the
accident, working without remuneration in a family enterprise and the
insured is unable because of the insured's bodily injury to perform
the insured's regular duties in the family enterprise, the insured is
entitled to a reimbursement, up to a maximum of the prescribed amount,
of reasonable expenses incurred during the first 180 days after the
accident to have the insured's regular duties performed by another
person during those 180 days.




(2)

An insured who the corporation is satisfied was regularly incapable
before the accident of holding employment for any reason except age is
not entitled to a benefit under this section.






Caregiver benefit




152

(1)


Subject to the regulations, an insured, other than a full-time earner,
temporary earner, student or minor, whose main occupation at the time
of the accident is taking care of, without remuneration, one or more
persons who are under 16 years of age or who are regularly unable for
any reason to hold any employment is entitled to a caregiver benefit,
up to a maximum of the prescribed amount, if the insured is unable to
continue providing that care because of the insured's bodily injury.




(2)

The corporation must calculate and determine the caregiver benefit to
which the insured is entitled under subsection (1) in accordance with
the regulations.




(3)

In the case of an insured who dies as a result of the accident, the
amount that would have been payable under subsection (1) to the
insured had the insured survived is payable in accordance with the
regulations.




(4)

At any time after the prescribed date following the accident, a
part-time earner or non-earner who is receiving a caregiver benefit
under subsection (1) may elect to continue to receive the caregiver
benefit, or to receive an income replacement benefit under section 133
in the case of a part-time earner or section 134 in the case of a
non-earner.




(5)

Before the date prescribed for the purposes of subsection (4), the
corporation must provide the part-time earner or non-earner with
information to assist the part-time earner or non-earner to make an
election under subsection (4).






Reimbursement of expenses for care of other person




153

(1)


Subject to the regulations, an insured who, because of the insured's
bodily injury, becomes unable to care for a child under 16 years of
age or for a person who is regularly unable, for any reason, to hold
any employment is entitled to the reimbursement, up to a maximum of
the prescribed amount, of reasonable expenses incurred to pay the cost
of care if the insured




(a)

is, on the date of the accident, a full-time earner or temporary
earner,




(b)

is, on the date of the accident, a minor or student,




(c)

was, on the date of the accident, a part-time earner or non-earner
who, under section 152, elects to receive an income replacement
benefit, or




(d)

is a person in a prescribed class of persons.




(2)

The corporation must calculate and determine the amount of the
reimbursement to which the insured is entitled under subsection (1) in
accordance with the regulations.




(3)

Despite subsection (1), an insured residing with a spouse is entitled
to reimbursement of expenses under this section only for the time that
the spouse is also unable to care for the person referred to in
subsection (1) as a result of the illness or disability of the spouse,
or the spouse's work or studies outside the residence.




Division 12 — Limit on Benefits





Limit on benefits — subsequent accidents




154


Subject to the regulations, if an insured who is receiving a benefit
under sections 131 to 134, sections 137 to 139, sections 142 to 144 or
section 151 or 152 subsequently becomes, but for this section,
entitled to another benefit under those sections on the basis of a
subsequent accident, the insured




(a)

is entitled to whichever benefit is the greater, and




(b)

is not entitled to both benefits, despite those sections.




Division 13 — Death Benefits





Definition




155


In this Division,
"spouse"
has the prescribed meaning.






Death benefit for spouse




156

(1)


Subject to the regulations, a spouse of a deceased is entitled to a
lump sum death benefit, up to a maximum of the prescribed amount.




(2)

The corporation must calculate and determine the death benefit to
which a spouse is entitled under subsection (1) in accordance with the
regulations.






Death benefit for dependant




157

(1)


Subject to the regulations, a dependant of a deceased is entitled to a
lump sum death benefit, up to a maximum of the prescribed amount.




(2)

The corporation must calculate and determine the death benefit to
which a dependant is entitled under subsection (1) in accordance with
the regulations.






Dependent child of deceased with no spouse




158

(1)


Subject to the regulations and subsection (2), if on the date that the
deceased dies the deceased has no spouse but has a dependent child,
the dependent child is entitled, up to a maximum of the prescribed
amount and in addition to a lump sum death benefit under section 157,
to the lump sum death benefit that would have been payable under
section 156 to the spouse.




(2)

If the deceased has more than one dependent child, the additional lump
sum death benefit under subsection (1) must be divided equally among
the dependent children.






Entitlement of child and parent of deceased




159


Subject to the regulations, if a deceased has no spouse and no
dependant on the day the deceased dies, each child and parent of the
deceased is entitled to a lump sum death benefit in the prescribed
amount.






Reimbursement of funeral expenses




160


If a person incurs funeral or burial expenses for a deceased, the
corporation must reimburse, up to a maximum of the prescribed amount
per deceased, the person for those expenses.






Grief counselling




161

(1)


In this section,
"eligible person"
means a person who was in a prescribed class of relationship in
relation to the deceased.




(2)

Subject to the regulations, the corporation must reimburse, up to a
maximum of the prescribed amount, an eligible person who incurs
reasonable expenses for and related to grief counselling respecting
the deceased.




Division 14 — Catastrophic Injuries





Facilitation of claims by catastrophically injured




162


If the corporation is satisfied that an insured has sustained a
catastrophic injury as a result of the accident, the corporation may
coordinate and facilitate any processes that may be necessary to
secure the insured's access to funding or services




(a)

that are provided by the government or a prescribed government,
agency, public body or entity, or




(b)

to which the insured may be entitled under the

Medicare Protection Act

or another Act.






Extended benefit for catastrophically injured




163

(1)


In this section,
"expenses"
means expenses respecting a catastrophic injury sustained by an
insured as a result of the accident.




(2)

Subject to the regulations and subsection (3), the corporation may pay
for expenses, up to a maximum of the prescribed amount, that the
corporation would not otherwise be authorized to pay.




(3)

The corporation may pay for expenses under subsection (2) in the
following circumstances:




(a)

the insured has received the maximum amount of reimbursement for a
type of expense payable under this Part, and the corporation




(i)

is in the course of exercising its authority under section 162 on the
insured's behalf but the insured has not yet accessed funding or a
service, and




(ii)

considers it advisable to pay the expense for that type of benefit
before the insured has access to the funding or service;




(b)

the insured has received the maximum amount of reimbursement for a
type of expense payable under this Part, the

Medicare Protection Act

and any other Act, and the corporation is satisfied that payment of
the expense will reduce the total of any amounts payable under this
Part by an amount that is at least equal to the amount of the expense
paid;




(c)

payment of the expense is not otherwise provided for in this Part but
the corporation is satisfied that payment of the expense will reduce
the total of any amounts payable under this Part by an amount that is
at least equal to the amount of the expense paid;




(d)

the prescribed circumstances.




(4)

The corporation must not, under this section, pay for an expense
unless the insured obtained the corporation's written approval before
incurring the expense.




Division 15 — Expenses for Volunteers





Expenses for volunteer




164

(1)


In this section,
"volunteer"
means a person who voluntarily and without expectation of compensation
renders emergency first aid or other assistance to a person injured in
an accident in British Columbia involving an insured.




(2)

Subject to the regulations, the corporation may pay a volunteer, or
reimburse a volunteer up to a maximum of the prescribed amount, for
reasonable expenses incurred in relation to an accident, if those
expenses are within a prescribed category of expenses.




Division 16 — Claims and Disputes





Claims




165

(1)


A claim for benefits under this Part must be made in the form and
manner required by the corporation.




(2)

A claim for benefits must be made within the time period prescribed.




(3)

The corporation may extend a time period prescribed for the purposes
of subsection (2) if the corporation considers it equitable to do so.




(4)

The corporation may exercise its power under subsection (3) before or
after the prescribed time period has elapsed.




(5)

If a claimant fails to make a claim respecting an accident within the
time period prescribed for the purposes of subsection (2), the
claimant is not entitled to benefits respecting that accident, unless
the corporation grants an extension under subsection (3) and the
claimant makes a claim within that extended period.






Advance payment




166

(1)


If satisfied that a claim is well founded, the corporation may pay a
benefit under this Part on the basis of the claim but before
determining that the claimant is entitled to the benefit.




(2)

If after making a payment under subsection (1) the corporation
determines that the claimant is not entitled to the benefit, the
corporation may not recover the payment, unless the claim involves
fraud.






Disputes with corporation




167


A claimant and an insured may, in accordance with the regulations, if
any, dispute a determination or decision made by the corporation under
this Part.




Division 17 — Recovery of Paid Benefits





Corporation may recover benefits




168

(1)


Subject to the regulations and despite section 93.1 (5), the
corporation may recover, or take other prescribed actions respecting,
benefits paid under this Part




(a)

from a person described in section 116 (2) (a) to (e) who was
responsible for bodily injury arising out of the accident but paid to
another person for that other person's bodily injury,




(b)

from a person to whom benefits were paid for bodily injury arising out
of the accident and whose use or operation of a vehicle




(i)

caused bodily injury, and




(ii)

results in the person's conviction of a prescribed

Criminal Code

offence,




(c)

from the person referred to in paragraph (b) but paid to another
person for that other person's bodily injury arising out of the
accident referred to in paragraph (b), or




(d)

from or paid to a person in a prescribed class of persons or in the
prescribed circumstances.




(2)

Despite the

Negligence Act

, in an action referred to in subsection (1) of this section, if 2 or
more persons are responsible for bodily injury, they are liable to the
corporation in the degree to which they are respectively responsible
and are not liable to make contribution to and indemnify each other
respecting that liability or any payment made in relation to it.




Division 18 — Regulations





Power to make regulations under this Part




169

(1)


The power of the Lieutenant Governor in Council to make regulations
under this Part does not limit the power of the Lieutenant Governor in
Council to make regulations under any other Part of this Act.




(2)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council,




(a)

for the purposes of this Part, may make regulations as described in
sections 45 and 94, as applicable, and




(b)

for the purposes of Division 4 of this Part, may make regulations as
described in section 45.1, as applicable.




(3)

Where a provision in this Part entitles a person to a benefit subject
to the regulations, the Lieutenant Governor in Council may, for the
purposes of those provisions, make regulations as follows:




(a)

providing exceptions to the provision;




(b)

establishing limits on entitlement to the benefit;




(c)

establishing conditions on the entitlement to the benefit;




(d)

establishing conditions in relation to the operation of an exception
or limit established by a regulation made under this subsection;




(e)

respecting procedures for claiming a benefit;




(f)

respecting duties and obligations of a person claiming a benefit.




(4)

Where a provision in this Part confers a power, duty or function on
the corporation subject to the regulations, the Lieutenant Governor in
Council may, for the purposes of those provisions, make regulations as
follows:




(a)

providing exceptions to the provision;




(b)

establishing conditions in relation to the operation of an exception
or limit established by a regulation made under this subsection;




(c)

establishing limits on the power, duty or function;




(d)

establishing requirements respecting how the power, duty or function
is to be carried out.




(5)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations as follows:




(a)

further restricting the exceptions set out in section 116 (2) (a) to
(e) and prescribing exceptions for the purposes of section 116 (2)
(g);




(b)

respecting the payment of benefits that were not paid or that were
reduced, suspended or cancelled in prescribed circumstances under
section 121 (1) (f) if the circumstances change, including determining
if interest is payable, and if so, the amount of interest and the
manner of payment;




(c)

if an amount is paid under a regulation made under paragraph (b) and
the circumstances revert to the prescribed circumstances in which a
benefit should not have been paid or should have been reduced,
suspended or cancelled, respecting the repayment of the benefits paid,
including the manner of repayment;




(d)

for the purposes of section 124, including, without limitation,
regulations




(i)

prescribing services or assistance for which the corporation may
provide funding to an insured to facilitate the insured's
rehabilitation,




(ii)

prescribing expenses incurred respecting rehabilitation for which the
corporation may provide reimbursement,




(iii)

respecting services respecting rehabilitation that the corporation may
provide or arrange to be provided, and




(iv)

respecting procedures or decision-making or recommendation-making
bodies that the corporation may establish




(A)

for the purpose of making assessments respecting any matter in
relation to an insured's rehabilitation, or




(B)

for the corporation's provision of funding, reimbursement or services;




(e)

respecting permanent impairments, including, without limitation, the
establishment of a schedule of permanent impairment, including,
without limitation,




(i)

the attribution of a percentage of impairment to each permanent
impairment,




(ii)

the determination of an additional percentage of impairment where the
permanent impairment affects symmetrical organs,




(iii)

the determination of an additional percentage of impairment where the
permanent impairment affects an impairment that the insured had before
the accident, and




(iv)

the reduction of the percentages attributed to permanent impairments
for insureds who have more than one permanent impairment;




(f)

respecting income replacement benefits and retirement income benefits,
including, without limitation, regulations respecting




(i)

amounts, manner and frequency of payments of benefits to be paid,
including, without limitation, regulations authorizing or requiring
the corporation to calculate and determine income replacement benefits
by reference to




(A)

prescribed periods of time,




(B)

an insured's actual or estimated present or future gross or net
income,




(C)

industrial average wage,




(D)

classes of employment,




(E)

an insured's potential employment, as determined by the corporation,
or




(F)

any other specified factors, amounts, activities or potential
activities,




(ii)

circumstances in which the corporation may adjust or renew income
replacement benefits, including, without limitation, where the insured
suffers a relapse, and




(iii)

notices of determinations respecting income replacement benefits;




(g)

respecting loss-of-studies, family enterprise and caregiver benefits,
including, without limitation, regulations respecting




(i)

amounts, manner and frequency of payments of benefits to be paid,
including, without limitation, regulations authorizing or requiring
the corporation to calculate and determine the benefits by reference
to prescribed periods of time and any other specified factors or
amounts, and




(ii)

circumstances in which the corporation may adjust or renew the
benefits, including, without limitation, where the insured suffers a
relapse;




(h)

respecting death benefits, including, without limitation, regulations
respecting amounts and manner of payments of death benefits to be
paid, including, without limitation, authorizing or requiring the
corporation to calculate and determine death benefits by reference to




(i)

the deceased's age, income or other circumstances,




(ii)

the age, income or other circumstances of the persons who are entitled
to a death benefit, and




(iii)

any other specified values or amounts;




(i)

respecting grief counselling, including, without limitation,
regulations respecting maximum amounts payable per deceased, per class
of eligible persons or per accident;




(j)

respecting catastrophic injuries and the payment by the corporation of
expenses under section 163, including, without limitation, regulations




(i)

restricting or guiding the corporation's discretion under that
section,




(ii)

specifying types of expenses that the corporation may pay, or refuse
to pay, under that section, and




(iii)

specifying injuries or combinations of injuries as catastrophic
injuries for the purposes of that section;




(k)

for the purposes of section 167, establishing requirements and
procedures respecting disputes.




Part 11 — Basic Vehicle Damage Coverage and Limits on Actions and
Proceedings



Division 1 — Definitions and Application





Definitions




170

(1)


In this Part:


"accident"
means an accident occurring in British Columbia arising out of the use
or operation of a vehicle;



"excluded vehicle"

means




(a)

a vehicle that could not be licensed under the

Motor Vehicle Act

or the

Commercial Transport Act

, or that is of such a design that, if it were owned or operated in
British Columbia, it could not be licensed under either of those Acts,
and




(b)

a vehicle in a prescribed class of vehicles


but does not include a vehicle in a prescribed class of vehicles;



"included vehicle"

means a vehicle other than a vehicle in a prescribed class of
vehicles;


"insured"
has the prescribed meaning;



"licensed vehicle"

means a vehicle




(a)

that is not any of the following:




(i)

a non-standard motor vehicle;




(ii)

an excluded vehicle;




(iii)

a vehicle in a class of prescribed class of vehicles, and




(b)

that is one of the following:




(i)

a vehicle licensed under the

Motor Vehicle Act

or the

Commercial Transport Act

;




(ii)

a vehicle for which a permit has been issued under the

Motor Vehicle Act

or the

Commercial Transport Act

;




(iii)

a vehicle registered in a jurisdiction outside British Columbia for
which licensing requirements of the jurisdiction in which the vehicle
is registered are fulfilled;



"loss of use"

has the prescribed meaning;



"non-standard motor vehicle"

means




(a)

a motor vehicle




(i)

that, as manufactured, does not conform to the standards set out in
the

Motor Vehicle Safety Act

(Canada) for motor vehicles for highway use, and




(ii)

that could be licensed under the

Motor Vehicle Act

or the

Commercial Transport Act

or that is of such a design that, if it were owned or operated in
British Columbia, it could be licensed under either of those Acts, and




(b)

a motor vehicle in a prescribed class of motor vehicles


but does not include a motor vehicle in a prescribed class of motor
vehicles;



"permanently attached equipment"

means machinery, an apparatus or other equipment that




(a)

is mounted on or attached to a vehicle, and




(b)

can be removed from the vehicle only with the use of a tool or tools;



"vehicle damage"

, in relation to a vehicle, means




(a)

damage to or loss of the vehicle,




(b)

loss of use of the vehicle,




(c)

damage to or loss of permanently attached equipment,




(d)

accelerated depreciation of the vehicle, and




(e)

any other prescribed types of damage or loss,


but does not include types of damage or loss in a prescribed class of
damage or loss.




(2)

A reference to a vehicle in this Part is to be read as including a
reference to permanently attached equipment of the vehicle.






Application




171


This Part applies to an accident occurring on or after May 1, 2021.




Division 2 — Limits on Actions





No actions or proceedings for vehicle damage — accident on highway




172

(1)


Despite any other law or enactment but subject to this Part,




(a)

a person has no right of action and must not commence or maintain
proceedings respecting vehicle damage to an included vehicle sustained
in an accident that




(i)

occurred on a highway, and




(ii)

involved at least 2 included vehicles, and




(b)

no action or proceeding may be commenced or maintained respecting
vehicle damage to an included vehicle sustained in an accident that




(i)

occurred on a highway, and




(ii)

involved at least 2 included vehicles.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply respecting actions to be brought or
proceedings to be commenced or maintained against




(a)

persons who, at the time of the accident, are not owners, renters
named in an owner's certificate, occupants or operators of included
vehicles involved in the accident, and




(b)

persons in a prescribed class of persons by persons in a prescribed
class of persons.




(3)

Despite the

Negligence Act

, in an action referred to in subsection (2) of this section, if 2 or
more persons are responsible for the vehicle damage, they are liable
for any damages awarded for that vehicle damage in the degree to which
they are respectively responsible and are not liable to make
contribution to and indemnify each other respecting that liability or
any payment made in relation to it.






No actions or proceedings for vehicle damage — accident off-highway




173

(1)


In this section,
"licensed person"
, in relation to a licensed vehicle, means




(a)

an owner, a renter named in an owner's certificate, an occupant or an
operator, or




(b)

a person in a prescribed class of persons.




(2)

Despite any other law or enactment,




(a)

a licensed person, other than a licensed person in a prescribed class
of licensed persons, has no right of action and must not commence or
maintain proceedings against another licensed person respecting
vehicle damage sustained to a licensed vehicle in an accident that




(i)

occurred off-highway, and




(ii)

involved at least 2 licensed vehicles;




(b)

no action or proceeding may be commenced or maintained by a licensed
person, other than a licensed person in a prescribed class of licensed
persons, against another licensed person respecting vehicle damage
sustained to the licensed vehicle in an accident that




(i)

occurred off-highway, and




(ii)

involved at least 2 licensed vehicles.




(3)

Despite the

Negligence Act

, in an action to which subsection (2) of this section does not apply
respecting an accident that




(a)

occurred off-highway, and




(b)

involved at least 2 licensed vehicles,


if 2 or more persons are responsible for the vehicle damage arising
out of the accident, they are liable for any damages awarded for that
vehicle damage in the degree to which they are respectively
responsible and are not liable to make contribution to and indemnify
each other respecting that liability or any payment made in relation
to it.




Division 3 — Coverage





Coverage — accident on highway




174

(1)


In this section,
"eligible vehicle"
means




(a)

a licensed vehicle with respect to which coverage is, under this Part,
provided by a certificate,




(b)

a non-standard motor vehicle




(i)

with respect to which




(A)

a licence or permit has been issued under the

Motor Vehicle Act

or the

Commercial Transport Act

, and




(B)

coverage is provided by a certificate, and




(ii)

that was involved in an accident that occurred on the portion of the
highway on which the vehicle is authorized to be operated,




(c)

an excluded vehicle




(i)

with respect to which




(A)

a permit has been issued under the

Motor Vehicle Act

or the

Commercial Transport Act

, and




(B)

coverage is provided by a certificate, and




(ii)

that was involved in an accident that occurred on the portion of the
highway on which the vehicle is authorized to be operated, and




(d)

a vehicle with respect to which coverage is provided by a certificate
and that is in a prescribed class of vehicles


but does not include a vehicle in a prescribed class of vehicles.




(2)

This section applies to an accident on a highway involving at least 2
included vehicles.




(3)

Subject to subsection (4) and the regulations, the corporation, in
accordance with the regulations, must indemnify an insured for damage
or loss respecting the insured's eligible vehicle, sustained in an
accident on a highway, for




(a)

the cost of repairs or replacement of the vehicle,




(b)

the loss of use of the vehicle,




(c)

the cost of repairs or replacement of permanently attached equipment,
and




(d)

any other prescribed types of damage or loss.




(4)

The total value of indemnification under subsection (3) must be
reduced by the extent to which, expressed as a percentage, the
following persons are responsible for the accident:




(a)

the owner of the insured's eligible vehicle;




(b)

the operator of the insured's eligible vehicle;




(c)

the operator of another vehicle owned, leased or rented by the
insured;




(d)

another person whose name is not ascertainable;




(e)

a person in a prescribed class of persons.




(4.1)

In respect of a vehicle that is not the insured's eligible vehicle,
subsection (4) applies regardless of whether the vehicle is owned,
leased or rented in British Columbia or in a jurisdiction outside
British Columbia.




(5)

Indemnification paid under this section must not exceed the prescribed
amount, if any.






Coverage — accident off-highway




175

(1)


In this section,
"eligible vehicle"
means a licensed vehicle with respect to which coverage is, under this
Part, provided by a certificate.




(2)

This section applies to an accident off-highway involving at least 2
licensed vehicles.




(3)

Subject to subsection (4) and the regulations, the corporation, in
accordance with the regulations, must indemnify an insured for damage
or loss respecting the insured's eligible vehicle, sustained in an
accident off-highway, for




(a)

the cost of repairs or replacement of the vehicle,




(b)

the loss of use of the vehicle,




(c)

the cost of repairs or replacement of permanently attached equipment,
and




(d)

any other prescribed types of damage or loss.




(4)

The total value of indemnification under subsection (3) must be
reduced by the extent to which, expressed as a percentage, the
following persons are responsible for the accident:




(a)

the owner of the insured's eligible vehicle;




(b)

the operator of the insured's eligible vehicle;




(c)

the operator of another vehicle owned, leased or rented by the
insured;




(d)

another person whose name is not ascertainable;




(e)

a person in a prescribed class of persons.




(4.1)

In respect of a vehicle that is not the insured's eligible vehicle,
subsection (4) applies regardless of whether the vehicle is owned,
leased or rented in British Columbia or in a jurisdiction outside
British Columbia.




(5)

Indemnification paid under this section must not exceed the prescribed
amount, if any.






Repealed




176


[Repealed 2022-14-21.]






Circumstances in which indemnification not paid or in which
indemnification reduced




177

(1)


Subject to the regulations, the corporation may reduce or refuse to
pay indemnification under this Part in the following circumstances:




(a)

the accident was wilfully caused by the insured;




(b)

the vehicle damage was wilfully caused by the insured;




(c)

the insured knowingly provides false or inaccurate information to the
corporation;




(d)

the insured fails to comply with a requirement of the corporation
under section 11;




(e)

the insured fails to comply with prescribed requirements;




(f)

prescribed circumstances.




(2)

Section 75 does not apply to a claim for indemnification in the
circumstances described in subsection (1).






Recovery




178

(1)


In this section:



"out-of-province owner"

means a person who has ownership of a vehicle in a jurisdiction
outside British Columbia in accordance with the law of that
jurisdiction;


"owner"
includes an out-of-province owner.




(2)

Subject to the regulations and subsection (3), the corporation may
recover, or take other prescribed actions respecting, indemnification
paid to an insured under this Part,




(a)

in relation to an accident on a highway or off-highway, from an owner
of a vehicle described in subsection (4) except in the prescribed
circumstances,




(b)

in relation to an accident on a highway, from an operator or occupant
of a vehicle described in subsection (4) if




(i)

the operator or occupant knew or ought to have known that the vehicle
is not a licensed vehicle, or




(ii)

the accident occurs on the portion of the highway on which the vehicle
is not authorized to be operated, and




(c)

in relation to an accident on a highway or off-highway, from a person
in a prescribed class of persons in relation to a vehicle described in
subsection (4).




(3)

Recovery under subsection (2) is limited to the extent to which,
expressed as a percentage and applied to the amount paid under this
Part, the applicable person referred to in subsection (2) is
responsible for the accident.




(4)

The following vehicles are vehicles for the purposes of subsection
(2):




(a)

a vehicle that is none of the following:




(i)

an excluded vehicle;




(ii)

a licensed vehicle;




(iii)

a non-standard motor vehicle;




(b)

a non-standard motor vehicle




(i)

with respect to which




(A)

a licence or permit has been issued under the

Motor Vehicle Act

or the

Commercial Transport Act

, and




(B)

coverage is provided by a certificate, and




(ii)

that is involved in an accident that occurs on the portion of the
highway on which the vehicle is not authorized to be operated;




(c)

an excluded vehicle




(i)

with respect to which




(A)

a permit has been issued under the

Motor Vehicle Act

or the

Commercial Transport Act

, and




(B)

coverage is provided by a certificate, and




(ii)

that is involved in an accident that occurs on the portion of the
highway on which the vehicle is not authorized to be operated;




(d)

a vehicle in a prescribed class of vehicles.




(5)

Subject to the regulations, an insurer that




(a)

is authorized to transact vehicle insurance in Canada or the United
States of America, and




(b)

has insured a vehicle for which the licensing requirements of a
jurisdiction outside British Columbia in which the vehicle is
registered are fulfilled


may recover insurance money paid under a contract of insurance with
respect to the vehicle described in paragraph (b) as a result of an
accident from a person referred to in subsection (2), but only to the
extent that the corporation could recover under subsection (2) had the
money been paid by the corporation under section 174 or 175.




(6)

Subject to the regulations, an owner of a vehicle described in section
1.01 in relation to which no agreement under section 1.01 (2) applies
may recover damage or losses with respect to vehicle damage as a
result of an accident from a person referred to in subsection (2) of
this section, but only to the extent that the corporation could
recover under subsection (2) of this section had the money been paid
by the corporation under section 174 or 175.






Limiting clause




179

(1)


Nothing in this Division precludes the corporation from issuing a
certificate providing coverage under this Part that contains a clause
to the effect that, in the event of loss, the corporation must pay
only




(a)

an agreed portion of any loss that may be sustained, or




(b)

the amount of the loss after the deduction of a sum specified in the
certificate,


and in either case not exceeding the prescribed limit of coverage.




(2)

Without limiting any power of the Lieutenant Governor in Council to
make regulations under any other Part of this Act, the Lieutenant
Governor in Council may make regulations respecting certificates
described in subsection (1) of this section, including, without
limitation, regulations respecting




(a)

types of insureds to whom, or vehicles with respect to which, the
corporation may issue a certificate described in subsection (1),




(b)

circumstances in which the corporation, despite having issued a
certificate as described in subsection (1), must comply with sections
174 and 175,




(c)

specific information that must be included in the certificate and how
the information is to be included, and




(d)

the maximum deductible to be paid under the certificate.




Division 4 — Power to Make Regulations Under this Part





Power to make regulations under this Part




180

(1)


Without limiting any power of the Lieutenant Governor in Council to
make regulations under any other Part of this Act, the Lieutenant
Governor in Council may make regulations for the purposes of this Part
as described in section 45, as applicable.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations under this Part as follows:




(a)

establishing requirements and procedures respecting disputes in
relation to a determination or decision made by the corporation under
this Part;




(b)

respecting an evaluation process for settling disputes between the
corporation and an insured about the nature and extent of repairs
required for a vehicle, the replacement of a vehicle or the amount
payable in respect of direct loss of or damage to the vehicle and how
the costs of the evaluation are paid;




(c)

exempting prescribed disputes or disputes in prescribed circumstances
from the evaluation process;




(d)

providing that prescribed disputes may or must be submitted to
arbitration, and governing the rights and obligations of the
arbitrator and a party to the arbitration;




(e)

respecting the priority of claims under the plan or optional insurance
contracts;




(f)

respecting indemnification provided under section 174 (3) or
175 (3), including, without limitation, regulations respecting
how and in what form indemnification may be provided;




(f.1)

respecting reduction of indemnification under sections 174 (4)
and 175 (4), including, without limitation, prescribing a class
of persons for whom, and the circumstances in which, the corporation
must not reduce indemnification;




(g)

respecting indemnification that was not paid or that was reduced,
suspended or cancelled in prescribed circumstances under section 177
(1) (f) if the circumstances change, including determining if interest
is payable, and if so, the amount of interest and the manner of
payment;




(h)

if an amount is paid under a regulation made under paragraph (g) and
the circumstances revert to the prescribed circumstances in which
insurance money should not have been paid or should have been reduced,
suspended or cancelled, respecting the repayment of the insurance
money paid, including the manner of repayment;




(i)

respecting claims under this Part, including, without limitation,
regulations authorizing the corporation to establish requirements
respecting




(i)

the form and manner of making claims,




(ii)

the time by which claims must be made,




(iii)

the circumstances in which the corporation may extend a time
established for making a claim, and




(iv)

procedures respecting a determination or decision made by the
corporation under this Part;




(j)

establishing requirements respecting how an authorization made under a
regulation made under paragraph (f) is to be carried out.




(3)

Without limiting subsection (1), where a provision in this Part
confers a power, duty or function on the corporation subject to the
regulations or another person subject to the regulations, the
Lieutenant Governor in Council may, for the purposes of those
provisions, make regulations as follows:




(a)

providing exceptions to the provision;




(b)

establishing conditions in relation to the operation of an exception
or limit established by a regulation made under this subsection;




(c)

establishing limits on the power, duty or function;




(d)

establishing requirements respecting how the power, duty or function
is to be carried out.




Part 12 — General



Division 1 — General Regulation-Making Powers





Power to make regulations under this Act




181

(1)


Without limiting any power of the Lieutenant Governor in Council to
make regulations under any other Part of this Act, the Lieutenant
Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in section 41 of
the

Interpretation Act

.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations as follows:




(a)

exempting a person or class of persons from a provision of this Act or
the regulations made under this Act;




(b)

defining, for the purposes of this Act or the regulations made under
this Act, words or phrases used but not defined in this Act;




(c)

providing that a contravention of a regulation made under this Act is
an offence;




(d)

establishing rates, formulas, rules or principles for determining or
adjusting an amount payable or recoverable under this Act or for
adjusting an amount specified in this Act or the regulations made
under this Act;




(e)

respecting any other matter for which regulations are contemplated by
this Act.




(3)

Without limiting subsection (2) (d), in making regulations under that
subsection, the Lieutenant Governor in Council may provide for




(a)

the use of a consumer price index published by Statistics Canada under
the

Statistics Act

(Canada), and




(b)

any matters respecting the use of a consumer price index.




(4)

Without limiting this section, the Lieutenant Governor in Council may,
when prescribing the meaning of a word or phrase in a provision of
this Act that sets out definitions, make regulations setting out
rules, methods, procedures, temporal requirements or any other things
to determine the meaning.




(5)

A regulation made under this Part may adopt by reference, in whole or
in part or with any change the Lieutenant Governor in Council
considers necessary, as it stands at the time of adoption or as
amended from time to time,




(a)

a regulation, code, standard or rule




(i)

enacted as or under a law of another jurisdiction, including a foreign
jurisdiction, or




(ii)

set by a provincial, national or international body or any other
code-, standard- or rule-making body, or




(b)

a guideline or criteria published by a specified body.




(6)

In making a regulation under this Act, the Lieutenant Governor in
Council may, in addition to any other variation authority that is
specifically provided,




(a)

make different regulations for different benefits, indemnification,
insurance money, persons, places, things, circumstances or
transactions or for different classes of benefits, indemnification,
insurance money, persons, places, things, circumstances or
transactions, and




(b)

establish different classes of benefits, indemnification, insurance
money, persons, places, things, circumstances or transactions.




(7)

In making a regulation under this Act, the Lieutenant Governor in
Council may delegate a matter to or confer a discretion on the
corporation.




(8)

A regulation made under section 45, 94, 169, 180 or this section
before May 1, 2022 may be made retroactive to May 1, 2021
and, if made retroactive, is deemed to have come into force on the
specified date.




Division 2 — Review of Parts 10 and 11





Review by special committee




182


On or before May 1, 2026, the Legislative Assembly must appoint a
special committee to conduct a review of Parts 10 and 11, and the
committee must submit a report on the results of the review to the
Legislative Assembly within one year after the date of the appointment
of the committee.




Division 3





Repealed




183


[Repealed RS1996-231-183 (4).]






Repealed




184


[Repealed RS1996-231-184 (4).]




