




International Commercial Arbitration Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 233




Part 1 — Application and Interpretation





Scope of application




1

(1)


This Act applies to international commercial arbitration, subject to
any agreement which is in force between Canada and any other state or
states and which applies in British Columbia.




(2)

This Act, except sections 8, 9, 17.08, 17.09, 17.10, 35 and 36,
applies only if the place of arbitration is in British Columbia.




(3)

An arbitration is international if




(a)

the parties to an arbitration agreement have, at the time of the
conclusion of that agreement, their places of business in different
states,




(b)

one of the following places is located outside the state in which the
parties have their places of business:




(i)

the place of arbitration if determined in, or pursuant to, the
arbitration agreement;




(ii)

any place where a substantial part of the obligations of the
commercial relationship is to be performed;




(iii)

the place with which the subject matter of the dispute is most closely
connected, or




(c)

the parties have expressly agreed that the subject matter of the
arbitration agreement relates to more than one state.




(4)

For the purposes of subsection (3),




(a)

if a party has more than one place of business, the place of business
is that which has the closest relationship to the arbitration
agreement, and




(b)

if a party does not have a place of business, reference is to be made
to the party's habitual residence.




(5)

For the purposes of subsection (3), the provinces and territories of
Canada must be considered one state.




(6)

An arbitration is commercial if it arises out of a relationship of a
commercial nature including, but not limited to, the following:




(a)

a trade transaction for the supply or exchange of goods or services;




(b)

a distribution agreement;




(c)

a commercial representation or agency;




(d)

an exploitation agreement or concession;




(e)

a joint venture or other related form of industrial or business
cooperation;




(f)

the carriage of goods or passengers by air, sea, rail or road;




(g)

the construction of works;




(h)

insurance;




(i)

licensing;




(j)

factoring;




(k)

leasing;




(l)

consulting;




(m)

engineering;




(n)

financing;




(o)

banking;




(p)

investing.




(7)

If an arbitration agreement respecting an international commercial
arbitration contains a reference to the

Arbitration Act

, that reference is deemed to be a reference to this Act.




(8)

This Act does not affect any other law in force in British Columbia by
virtue of which certain disputes may not be submitted to arbitration
or may be submitted to arbitration only in accordance with provisions
other than those of this Act.






Definitions and interpretation




2

(1)


For the purposes of this Act:



"arbitral tribunal"

means a sole arbitrator or a panel of arbitrators;



"arbitration"

means any arbitration whether or not administered by a permanent
arbitral institution;



"Chief Justice"

means the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court or the Chief
Justice's designate;


"court"
means a body or an organ of the judicial system of a state;


"party"
means a party to an arbitration agreement and includes a person
claiming through or under a party;



"Supreme Court"

means the Supreme Court of British Columbia.




(2)

Where this Act, except section 28, leaves the parties free to
determine a certain issue, that freedom includes the right of the
parties to authorize a third party, including an institution, to make
that determination.




(3)

Where this Act




(a)

refers to the fact that the parties have agreed or that they may
agree, or




(b)

in any other way refers to an agreement of the parties,


that agreement includes any arbitration rules referred to in that
agreement.




(4)

Where this Act, other than section 25 (1) or 32 (2) (a), refers to a
claim, it also applies to a counterclaim, and where it refers to a
defence, it also applies to a defence to that counterclaim.






Receipt of written communications




3

(1)


Unless otherwise agreed by the parties,




(a)

any written communication is deemed to have been received if it is
delivered to the addressee personally or if it is delivered at the
addressee's place of business, habitual residence or mailing address,
and




(b)

the communication is deemed to have been received on the day it is so
delivered.




(2)

If none of the places referred to in subsection (1) (a) can be found
after making a reasonable inquiry, a written communication is deemed
to have been received if it is sent to the addressee's last known
place of business, habitual residence or mailing address by registered
mail or by any other means which provides a record of the attempt to
deliver it.




(3)

This section does not apply to written communications in respect
of court proceedings.






Waiver of right to object




4

(1)


A party who knows that




(a)

any provision of this Act, or




(b)

any requirement under the arbitration agreement,


has not been complied with and yet proceeds with the arbitration
without stating an objection to noncompliance without undue delay or,
if a time limit is provided for stating that objection, within that
period of time, is deemed to have waived the right to object.




(2)

In subsection (1) (a),
"any provision of this Act"
means any provision of this Act in respect of which the parties may
otherwise agree.






Extent of judicial intervention




5


In matters governed by this Act,




(a)

a court must not intervene unless so provided in this Act, and




(b)

an arbitral proceeding of an arbitral tribunal or an order, ruling or
arbitral award made by an arbitral tribunal must not be questioned,
reviewed or restrained by a proceeding under the

Judicial Review Procedure Act

or otherwise except to the extent provided in this Act.






International origin and general principles




6

(1)


In interpreting this Act, a court or arbitral tribunal




(a)

must have regard to the international origins of the Act, the need to
promote uniformity in its application and the observance of good
faith, and




(b)

may have regard to the following:




(i)

the Reports of the United Nations Commission on International Trade
Law on the work of its eighteenth (1985) and thirty-ninth (2006)
sessions (UN Docs A/40/17 and A/61/17);




(ii)

the International Commercial Arbitration Analytical Commentary on
Draft Text of a Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration (UN
Doc A/CN.9/264);




(iii)

the Commentary of the United Nations Commission on International Trade
Law concerning the UNCITRAL Model Law on International Commercial
Arbitration 1985 with amendments as adopted in 2006 (UN Sales No.
E.08.V.4).




(2)

Questions concerning matters governed by this Act that are not
expressly settled in this Act are to be settled in conformity with the
general principles on which this Act is based.




Part 2 — Arbitration Agreement





Definition of arbitration agreement




7

(1)


In this Act:



"arbitration agreement"

means an agreement by the parties to submit to arbitration all or
certain disputes that have arisen or that may arise between the
parties in respect of a defined legal relationship, whether
contractual or not;



"data message"

means information generated, sent, received or stored by electronic,
magnetic, optical or similar means, including, but not limited to,
electronic data interchange (EDI), electronic mail, telegram, telex or
telecopy;



"electronic communication"

means any communication that the parties make by means of data
messages.




(2)

An arbitration agreement may be in the form of an arbitration clause
in a contract or in the form of a separate agreement.




(3)

An arbitration agreement must be in writing.




(4)

An arbitration agreement is in writing if its content is recorded in
any form, whether or not the arbitration agreement or contract has
been concluded orally, by conduct or by other means.




(5)

The requirement that an arbitration agreement be in writing is met by
an electronic communication if the information contained in the
electronic communication is accessible so as to be usable for
subsequent reference.




(6)

An arbitration agreement is in writing if it is contained in an
exchange of statements of claim and defence in which the existence of
an agreement is alleged by one party and not denied by the other.




(7)

The reference in a contract to a document containing an arbitration
clause constitutes an arbitration agreement in writing if the
reference is such as to make that arbitration clause part of the
contract.






Stay of legal proceedings




8

(1)


If a party to an arbitration agreement commences legal proceedings in
a court against another party to the agreement in respect of a matter
agreed to be submitted to arbitration, a party to the legal
proceedings may, before submitting the party's first statement on the
substance of the dispute, apply to that court to stay the proceedings.




(2)

In an application under subsection (1), the court must make an order
staying the legal proceedings unless it determines that the
arbitration agreement is null and void, inoperative or incapable of
being performed.




(3)

Even if an application has been brought under subsection (1) and even
if the issue is pending before the court, an arbitration may be
commenced or continued and an arbitral award made.






Arbitration agreement and interim measures by court




9


It is not incompatible with an arbitration agreement for a party to
request from a court, before or during arbitral proceedings, an
interim measure of protection and for a court to grant that measure.




Part 3 — Composition of Arbitral Tribunal





Number of arbitrators




10

(1)


The parties are free to determine the number of arbitrators.




(2)

Failing the determination referred to in subsection (1), the number of
arbitrators is 3.






Appointment of arbitrators




11

(1)


A person of any nationality may be an arbitrator.




(2)

Subject to subsections (6) and (7), the parties are free to agree on a
procedure for appointing an arbitral tribunal.




(3)

Failing any agreement referred to in subsection (2), in an arbitration
with 3 arbitrators, each party must appoint one arbitrator, and the 2
appointed arbitrators must appoint the third arbitrator.




(4)

If the appointment procedure in subsection (3) applies and




(a)

a party fails to appoint an arbitrator within 30 days after receipt of
a request to do so from the other party, or




(b)

the 2 appointed arbitrators fail to agree on the third arbitrator
within 30 days after their appointment,


the appointment must be made, on request of a party, by the Chief
Justice.




(5)

Failing any agreement referred to in subsection (2), in an arbitration
with a sole arbitrator, if the parties fail to agree on the
arbitrator, the appointment must be made, on request of a party, by
the Chief Justice.




(6)

If, under an appointment procedure agreed on by the parties,




(a)

a party fails to act as required under that procedure,




(b)

the parties, or 2 appointed arbitrators, fail to reach an agreement
expected of them under that procedure, or




(c)

a third party fails to perform any function entrusted to the third
party under that procedure,


a party may request the Chief Justice to take the necessary measure,
unless the agreement on the appointment procedure provides other means
for securing the appointment.




(7)

A decision on a matter entrusted by subsection (4), (5) or (6) to the
Chief Justice is final and is not subject to appeal.




(8)

The Chief Justice, in appointing an arbitrator, must have due regard
to




(a)

any qualifications required of the arbitrator by the agreement of the
parties, and




(b)

other considerations as are likely to secure the appointment of an
independent and impartial arbitrator.




(9)

Unless the parties have previously agreed to the appointment of a sole
or third arbitrator who is of the same nationality as any of the
parties, the Chief Justice must not appoint a sole or third arbitrator
who is of the same nationality as that of any of the parties.






Grounds for challenge




12

(1)


When a person is approached in connection with the
person's possible appointment as an arbitrator, the person must
disclose any circumstances likely to give rise to justifiable doubts
as to the person's independence or impartiality.




(2)

An arbitrator, from the time of the arbitrator's appointment
and throughout the arbitral proceedings, must, without delay, disclose
to the parties any circumstances referred to in subsection (1) unless
they have already been informed of them by the arbitrator.




(3)

An arbitrator may be challenged only if




(a)

circumstances exist that give rise to justifiable doubts as to the
arbitrator's independence or impartiality, or




(b)

the arbitrator does not possess the qualifications agreed to by the
parties.




(3.1)

For the purposes of subsection (3) (a), there are justifiable doubts
as to the arbitrator's independence or impartiality only if there is a
real danger of bias on the part of the arbitrator in conducting the
arbitration.




(4)

A party may challenge an arbitrator appointed by that party, or in
whose appointment the party has participated, only for reasons of
which the party becomes aware after the appointment has been made.






Challenge procedure




13

(1)


Subject to subsection (4), the parties are free to agree on a
procedure for challenging an arbitrator.




(2)

Failing any agreement referred to in subsection (1), a party who
intends to challenge an arbitrator must, within 15 days after becoming
aware of the constitution of the arbitral tribunal or after becoming
aware of any circumstances referred to in section 12 (3), send a
written statement of the reasons for the challenge to the arbitral
tribunal.




(3)

Unless the arbitrator challenged under subsection (2) withdraws from
office or the other party agrees to the challenge, the arbitral
tribunal must decide on the challenge.




(4)

If a challenge under any procedure agreed on by the parties or under
the procedure under subsection (2) is not successful, the challenging
party may request the Supreme Court, within 30 days after having
received notice of the decision rejecting the challenge, to decide on
the challenge.




(5)

If a request is made under subsection (4), the Supreme Court may
refuse to decide on the challenge, if it is satisfied that, under the
procedure agreed on by the parties, the party making the request had
an opportunity to have the challenge decided on by a party or entity
other than the arbitral tribunal.




(6)

The decision of the Supreme Court under subsection (4) is final and is
not subject to appeal.




(7)

While a request under subsection (4) is pending, the arbitral
tribunal, including the challenged arbitrator, may continue the
arbitral proceedings and make an arbitral award.






Failure or impossibility to act




14

(1)


The mandate of an arbitrator terminates if




(a)

the arbitrator becomes in law or in fact unable to perform the
arbitrator's functions or for other reasons fails to act without undue
delay, and




(b)

the arbitrator withdraws from office or the parties agree to the
termination of the arbitrator's mandate.




(2)

If a controversy remains concerning any of the grounds referred to in
subsection (1) (a), a party may request the Supreme Court to decide on
the termination of the mandate.




(3)

A decision of the Supreme Court under subsection (2) is final and is
not subject to appeal.




(4)

If, under this section or section 13 (3), an arbitrator withdraws from
office or a party agrees to the termination of the mandate of an
arbitrator, this does not imply acceptance of the validity of any
ground referred to in this section or section 12 (3).






Termination of mandate and substitution of arbitrator




15

(1)


In addition to the circumstances referred to in section 13 or 14,
the mandate of an arbitrator terminates




(a)

if the arbitrator withdraws from office for any reason, or




(b)

by or pursuant to agreement of the parties.




(2)

If the mandate of an arbitrator terminates, a substitute arbitrator
must be appointed according to the rules that were applicable to the
appointment of the arbitrator being replaced.




(3)

Unless otherwise agreed by the parties,




(a)

if the sole or presiding arbitrator is replaced, any hearings
previously held must be repeated, and




(b)

if an arbitrator, other than the sole or presiding arbitrator, is
replaced, any hearings previously held may be repeated at the
discretion of the arbitral tribunal.




(4)

Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, an order or ruling of the
arbitral tribunal made before the replacement of an arbitrator under
this section is not invalid solely because there has been a
change in the composition of the tribunal.




Part 4 — Jurisdiction of Arbitral Tribunal





Competence of arbitral tribunal to rule on its jurisdiction




16

(1)


The arbitral tribunal may rule on its own jurisdiction, including
ruling on any objections with respect to the existence or validity of
the arbitration agreement, and for that purpose,




(a)

an arbitration clause which forms part of a contract must be treated
as an agreement independent of the other terms of the contract, and




(b)

a decision by the arbitral tribunal that the contract is null and void
must not entail, as a matter of law, the invalidity of the arbitration
clause.




(2)

A plea that the arbitral tribunal does not have jurisdiction must be
raised not later than the submission of the statement of defence;
however, a party is not precluded from raising such a plea by the fact
that the party has appointed, or participated in the appointment of,
an arbitrator.




(3)

A plea that the arbitral tribunal is exceeding the scope of its
authority must be raised as soon as the matter alleged to be beyond
the scope of its authority is raised during the arbitral proceedings.




(4)

The arbitral tribunal may, in either of the cases referred to in
subsection (2) or (3), admit a later plea if it considers the delay
justified.




(5)

The arbitral tribunal may rule on a plea referred to in subsection (2)
or (3) either as a preliminary question or in an award on the merits.




(6)

If the arbitral tribunal rules as a preliminary question on a plea
referred to in subsection (2) or (3), any party may request the
Supreme Court, within 30 days after having received notice of that
ruling, to decide the matter.




(7)

The decision of the Supreme Court under subsection (6) is final and is
not subject to appeal.




(8)

While a request under subsection (6) is pending, the arbitral tribunal
may continue the arbitral proceedings and make an arbitral award.




Part 4.1 — Interim Measures and Preliminary Orders



Division 1 — Interim Measures





Power of arbitral tribunal to order interim measures




17

(1)


Unless otherwise agreed by the parties and subject to section 17.01,
the arbitral tribunal may, at the request of a party, grant an interim
measure.




(2)

In this Act,
"interim measure"
means any temporary measure, whether in the form of an arbitral award
or in another form, by which, at any time before the issuance of the
arbitral award by which the dispute is finally decided, the arbitral
tribunal orders a party to




(a)

maintain or restore the status quo pending determination of the
dispute,




(b)

take action that would prevent, or refrain from taking action that is
likely to cause, current or imminent harm or prejudice to the arbitral
process itself,




(c)

provide a means of preserving assets out of which a subsequent
arbitral award may be satisfied,




(d)

preserve evidence that may be relevant and material to the resolution
of the dispute, or




(e)

provide appropriate security for costs in connection with arbitral
proceedings.






Conditions for granting interim measures




17.01

(1)


The party requesting an interim measure referred to in section 17 (2)
(a), (c) or (e) must satisfy the arbitral tribunal that




(a)

harm not adequately reparable by an award of damages or other monetary
award is likely to result if the measure is not ordered,




(b)

the harm referred to in paragraph (a) substantially outweighs the harm
that is likely to result to the party against whom the measure is
directed if the measure is granted, and




(c)

there is a reasonable possibility that the requesting party will
succeed on the merits of the claim.




(2)

A determination of an arbitral tribunal under subsection (1) (c) does
not affect the discretion of the arbitral tribunal in making any
subsequent determination.




(3)

The requirements in subsection (1) apply, only to the extent the
arbitral tribunal considers appropriate, to a request for an interim
measure referred to in section 17 (2) (b) or (d).




Division 2 — Preliminary Orders





Applications for preliminary orders and conditions for granting
preliminary orders




17.02

(1)


Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, a party may, without notice to
any other party, make a request for an interim measure together with
an application for a preliminary order directing a party not to
frustrate the purpose of the interim measure requested.




(2)

Subject to subsection (3), the arbitral tribunal may grant a
preliminary order if the arbitral tribunal considers that prior
disclosure of the request for the interim measure to the party against
whom it is directed risks frustrating the purpose of the interim
measure.




(3)

Section 17.01 applies to an application for a preliminary order and,
for that purpose, the harm to be assessed under section 17.01 (1) (a)
and (b) is the harm likely to result from the order being granted or
not.






Specific regime for preliminary orders




17.03

(1)


Immediately after the arbitral tribunal makes a determination in
respect of an application for a preliminary order, the arbitral
tribunal must give notice to all the parties of the following:




(a)

the request for the interim measure;




(b)

the application for the preliminary order;




(c)

the preliminary order, if any;




(d)

all other communications, including by indicating the content of any
oral communication, between any party and the arbitral tribunal in
relation to a matter referred to in paragraph (a), (b) or (c).




(2)

At the same time, the arbitral tribunal must give an opportunity to
any party against whom a preliminary order is directed to present the
party's case at the earliest practicable time.




(3)

The arbitral tribunal must decide promptly on any objection to a
preliminary order.




(4)

A preliminary order expires 20 days after the date on which it was
issued by the arbitral tribunal.




(5)

After the party against whom a preliminary order is directed has been
given notice and an opportunity to present its case, the arbitral
tribunal may issue an interim measure adopting or modifying the
preliminary order.




(6)

A preliminary order




(a)

is binding on the parties but is not subject to enforcement by a
court, and




(b)

is not an arbitral award.




Division 3 — Provisions Applicable to Interim Measures and Preliminary
Orders





Modification, suspension or termination of interim measures and
preliminary orders




17.04


On application of any party or, in exceptional circumstances and with
prior notice to the parties, on the arbitral tribunal's own
initiative, an arbitral tribunal may modify, suspend or terminate an
interim measure or a preliminary order it has granted.






Provision of security




17.05

(1)


The arbitral tribunal may require the party requesting an interim
measure to provide appropriate security in connection with the
measure.




(2)

The arbitral tribunal must require the party applying for a
preliminary order to provide security in connection with the order
unless the arbitral tribunal considers it inappropriate or unnecessary
to do so.






Disclosure




17.06

(1)


The arbitral tribunal may require any party promptly to disclose any
material change in the circumstances on the basis of which an interim
measure was requested or granted.




(2)

The party applying for a preliminary order must disclose to the
arbitral tribunal all circumstances that are likely to be relevant to
the arbitral tribunal's determination whether to grant or maintain the
order.




(3)

The disclosure obligation under subsection (2) continues until the
party against whom the preliminary order has been requested has had an
opportunity to present its case.




(4)

After the party against whom a preliminary order has been requested
has had an opportunity to present its case, the arbitral tribunal may
require any party promptly to disclose any material change in the
circumstances on the basis of which the preliminary order was
requested or granted.






Costs and damages




17.07

(1)


The party requesting an interim measure or applying for a preliminary
order is liable for any costs and damages caused by the interim
measure or the preliminary order to any party if the arbitral tribunal
later determines that, in the circumstances, the measure or the order
should not have been granted.




(2)

The arbitral tribunal may award the costs and damages referred to in
subsection (1) at any time during the arbitral proceedings.




Division 4 — Recognition and Enforcement of Interim Measures





Recognition and enforcement




17.08

(1)


Subject to section 17.09, an interim measure issued by an arbitral
tribunal must be recognized as binding and, unless otherwise provided
by the arbitral tribunal, enforced on application to the competent
court irrespective of the state in which the interim measure was
issued.




(2)

The party who is seeking or has obtained recognition or enforcement of
an interim measure must promptly inform the court of any modification,
suspension or termination of that interim measure.




(3)

The court of the state where recognition or enforcement is sought may,
if that court considers it proper, order the requesting party to
provide appropriate security if the arbitral tribunal has not already
made a determination with respect to security or where such a decision
is necessary to protect the rights of third parties.






Grounds for refusing recognition or enforcement




17.09

(1)


Recognition or enforcement of an interim measure may be refused only




(a)

at the request of the party against whom the interim measure is
directed if the court is satisfied that




(i)

such refusal is warranted on the grounds referred to in section 36 (1)
(a) (i), (ii), (iii) or (iv),




(ii)

a decision of the arbitral tribunal with respect to the provision of
security in connection with the interim measure has not been complied
with, or




(iii)

the interim measure has been suspended or terminated by the arbitral
tribunal or, where so empowered, by a court of the state in which the
arbitration takes place or under the law of which that interim measure
was granted, or




(b)

if the court finds that




(i)

the interim measure is incompatible with the powers conferred upon the
court, unless the court decides to reformulate the interim measure to
the extent necessary to adapt the interim measure to its own powers
and procedures for the purposes of enforcing that interim measure and
without modifying its substance, or




(ii)

any of the grounds referred to in section 36 (1) (b) (i) or (ii) apply
to the recognition or enforcement of the interim measure.




(2)

A determination made by the court on a ground referred to in
subsection (1) is effective only for the purposes of the application
to recognize or enforce the interim measure.




(3)

The court where recognition or enforcement is sought may not, in
making a determination on a ground referred to in subsection (1),
undertake a review of the substance of the interim measure.




Division 5 — Court-Ordered Interim Measures





Court-ordered interim measures




17.10

(1)


A court has the same powers to issue an interim measure in relation to
arbitral proceedings, irrespective of whether the place of those
proceedings is in British Columbia, as that court has in relation to
court proceedings.




(2)

The court must exercise the powers referred to in subsection (1) in
accordance with its own procedures in consideration of the specific
features of international arbitration.




(3)

When requested to grant an interim measure, the court may, if it
considers it proper, refer the request to an arbitral tribunal.




Part 5 — Conduct of Arbitral Proceedings





Equal treatment of parties




18


The parties must be treated with equality and each party must be given
a reasonable opportunity to present their case.






Determination of rules of procedure




19

(1)


Subject to this Act, the parties are free to agree on the procedure to
be followed by the arbitral tribunal in conducting the proceedings.




(2)

Failing any agreement referred to in subsection (1), the arbitral
tribunal may, subject to this Act, conduct the arbitration in the
manner it considers appropriate.




(3)

The power of the arbitral tribunal under subsection (2) includes the
power to determine the admissibility, relevance, materiality and
weight of any evidence.






Place of arbitration




20

(1)


The parties are free to agree on the place of arbitration.




(2)

Failing any agreement referred to in subsection (1), the place of
arbitration must be determined by the arbitral tribunal having regard
to the circumstances of the case, including the convenience of the
parties.




(3)

Despite subsection (1), the arbitral tribunal may, unless otherwise
agreed by the parties, meet at any place it considers appropriate for
consultation among its members, for hearing witnesses, experts or the
parties, or for inspection of documents, goods or other property.






Commencement of arbitral proceedings




21


Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, the arbitral proceedings in
respect of a particular dispute commence on the date on which a
request for that dispute to be referred to arbitration is received by
the respondent.






Representation in arbitral proceedings




21.01

(1)


A party may be represented in arbitral proceedings by any person of
that party's choice, including, but not limited to, a legal
practitioner from another state.




(2)

Section 15 of the

Legal Profession Act

does not apply to a person who




(a)

is not a member of the Law Society of British Columbia, and




(b)

does one or more of the following:




(i)

appears as counsel or advocate in arbitral proceedings;




(ii)

gives legal advice concerning arbitral proceedings;




(iii)

prepares statements, documents or other materials in connection with
arbitral proceedings.






Language




22

(1)


The parties are free to agree on the language or languages to be used
in the arbitral proceedings.




(2)

Failing any agreement referred to in subsection (1), the arbitral
tribunal must determine the language or languages to be used in the
arbitral proceedings.




(3)

The agreement or determination, unless otherwise specified, applies to
any written statement by a party, any hearing and any arbitral award,
decision or other communication by the arbitral tribunal.




(4)

The arbitral tribunal may order that any documentary evidence must be
accompanied by a translation into the language or languages agreed on
by the parties or determined by the arbitral tribunal.






Statements of claim and defence




23

(1)


Within the period of time agreed on by the parties or determined by
the arbitral tribunal, the claimant must state the facts supporting
the claim, the points at issue and the relief or remedy sought, and
the respondent must state the respondent's defence in respect of these
particulars, unless the parties have otherwise agreed as to the
required elements of those statements.




(2)

The parties may submit with their statements all documents they
consider to be relevant or may add a reference to the documents or
other evidence they will submit.




(3)

Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, either party may amend or
supplement a claim or defence during the course of the arbitral
proceedings, unless the arbitral tribunal considers it inappropriate
to allow the amendment or supplement having regard to the delay in
making it.






Hearings and written proceedings




24

(1)


Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, the arbitral tribunal must
decide whether to hold oral hearings for the presentation of evidence
or for oral argument, or whether the proceedings must be conducted on
the basis of documents and other materials.




(2)

Unless the parties have agreed that no oral hearings are to be held,
the arbitral tribunal must hold oral hearings at an appropriate stage
of the proceedings, if so requested by a party.




(3)

The parties must be given sufficient advance notice of any hearing and
of any meeting of the arbitral tribunal for the purpose of inspection
of documents, goods or other property.




(4)

All statements, documents or other information supplied to, or
applications made to, the arbitral tribunal by one party must be
communicated to the other party, and any expert report or evidentiary
document on which the arbitral tribunal may rely in making its
decision is to be communicated to the parties.




(5)

[Repealed 2018-8-14.]






Default of a party




25

(1)


Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, if, without showing sufficient
cause, the claimant fails to communicate the statement of claim in
accordance with section 23 (1), the arbitral tribunal must terminate
the proceedings.




(2)

Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, if, without showing sufficient
cause, the respondent fails to communicate the statement of defence in
accordance with section 23 (1), the arbitral tribunal must
continue the proceedings without treating that failure in itself as an
admission of the claimant's allegations.




(3)

Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, if, without showing sufficient
cause, a party fails to appear at an oral hearing or to produce
documentary evidence, the arbitral tribunal may continue the
proceedings and make the arbitral award on the evidence before it.






Expert appointed by arbitral tribunal




26

(1)


Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, the arbitral tribunal may




(a)

appoint one or more experts to report to it on specific issues to be
determined by the arbitral tribunal, and




(b)

require a party to give the expert any relevant information or to
produce, or to provide access to, any relevant documents, goods or
other property for the expert's inspection.




(2)

Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, if a party so requests or if
the arbitral tribunal considers it necessary, the expert must, after
delivery of the expert's written or oral report, participate in an
oral hearing where the parties have the opportunity to put questions
to the expert and to present expert witnesses in order to testify on
the points at issue.




(3)

Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, the expert must, on the
request of a party, make available to that party, for examination, all
documents, goods or other property in the expert's possession with
which the expert was provided in order to prepare the expert's report.






Court assistance in taking evidence




27


The arbitral tribunal, or a party with the approval of the arbitral
tribunal, may request from the Supreme Court assistance in taking
evidence, and the court may execute the request within its competence
and according to its rules on taking evidence.






Enforcement of consolidation agreements




27.01

(1)


If all parties to 2 or more arbitral proceedings have agreed to
consolidate those proceedings, a party, with notice to the other
parties, may apply to the Supreme Court for an order that the
proceedings be consolidated as agreed to by the parties.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not limit the parties' ability to consolidate
arbitral proceedings without a court order.




(3)

If all parties to the arbitral proceedings have agreed to consolidate
the proceedings but have not agreed, by adopting procedural rules or
otherwise,




(a)

to the designation of parties as claimants or respondents or a method
for making those designations, or




(b)

to the method for determining the composition of the arbitral
tribunal,


the court may, on application under subsection (1) but subject to
subsection (4), make an order deciding either or both of those
matters.




(4)

If the arbitral proceedings are under different arbitration
agreements, the court must not make an order under this section
unless, by their arbitration agreements or otherwise, the parties have
agreed




(a)

to the same place of arbitration or a method for determining a single
place of arbitration for the consolidated proceedings in British
Columbia,




(b)

to the same procedural rules or a method for determining a single set
of procedural rules for the conduct of the consolidated proceedings,
and




(c)

either




(i)

to have the consolidated proceedings administered by the same arbitral
institution, or




(ii)

to have the consolidated proceedings not be administered by any
arbitral institution.




(5)

In making an order under this section, the court may have regard to
any circumstances it considers relevant, including




(a)

whether one or more arbitrators have been appointed in one or more of
the arbitral proceedings,




(b)

whether the applicant delayed applying for the order, and




(c)

whether any material prejudice to any of the parties or any injustice
may result from making the order.




Part 6 — Making of Arbitral Award and Termination of Proceedings





Rules applicable to substance of dispute




28

(1)


The arbitral tribunal must decide the dispute in accordance with the
rules of law designated by the parties as applicable to the substance
of the dispute.




(2)

Any designation by the parties of the law or legal system of a given
state must be construed, unless otherwise expressed, as directly
referring to the substantive law of that state and not to its conflict
of laws rules.




(3)

Failing any designation of the law under subsection (1) by the
parties, the arbitral tribunal must apply the rules of law it
considers to be appropriate given all the circumstances surrounding
the dispute.




(4)

The arbitral tribunal may decide ex aequo et bono or as amiable
compositeur only if the parties have expressly authorized it to do so.




(5)

In all cases, the arbitral tribunal must decide in accordance with the
terms of the contract and must take into account the usages of the
trade applicable to the transaction.






Decision making by panel of arbitrators




29

(1)


Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, in arbitral proceedings with
more than one arbitrator, any decision of the arbitral tribunal must
be made by a majority of all its members.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), if authorized by the parties or all the
members of the arbitral tribunal, questions of procedure may be
decided by a presiding arbitrator.






Settlement




30

(1)


It is not incompatible with an arbitration agreement for an arbitral
tribunal to encourage settlement of the dispute and, with the
agreement of the parties, the arbitral tribunal may use mediation,
conciliation or other procedures at any time during the arbitral
proceedings to encourage settlement.




(2)

If, during arbitral proceedings, the parties settle the dispute, the
arbitral tribunal must terminate the proceedings and, if requested by
the parties and not objected to by the arbitral tribunal, record the
settlement in the form of an arbitral award on agreed terms.




(3)

An arbitral award on agreed terms must be made in accordance with
section 31 and must state that it is an arbitral award.




(4)

An arbitral award on agreed terms has the same status and effect as
any other arbitral award on the substance of the dispute.






Form and content of arbitral award




31

(1)


An arbitral award must be made in writing and must be signed by the
members of the arbitral tribunal.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1), in arbitral proceedings with more
than one arbitrator, the signatures of the majority of all the members
of the arbitral tribunal are sufficient if the reason for any omitted
signature is stated.




(3)

The arbitral award must state the reasons on which it is based, unless




(a)

the parties have agreed that no reasons are to be given, or




(b)

the award is an arbitral award on agreed terms under section 30.




(4)

The arbitral award must state its date and the place of arbitration as
determined in accordance with section 20 and the award is deemed
to have been made at that place.




(5)

After the arbitral award is made, a signed copy must be delivered to
each party.




(6)

The arbitral tribunal may, at any time during the arbitral
proceedings, make a partial arbitral award that finally determines any
matter with respect to which it may make a final arbitral award.




(7)

Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, the arbitral tribunal may
award interest.




(8)

Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, the costs of an arbitration
are in the discretion of the arbitral tribunal which may, in awarding
costs,




(a)

include as costs,




(i)

the fees and expenses of the arbitrators and expert witnesses,




(ii)

legal fees and expenses,




(iii)

any administration fees of an institution, and




(iv)

any other expenses incurred in connection with the arbitral
proceedings, and




(b)

specify




(i)

the party entitled to costs,




(ii)

the party who must pay the costs,




(iii)

the amount of costs or method of determining that amount, and




(iv)

the manner in which the costs must be paid.






Termination of proceedings




32

(1)


The arbitral proceedings are terminated by the final arbitral award or
by an order of the arbitral tribunal under subsection (2).




(2)

The arbitral tribunal must issue an order for the termination of the
arbitral proceedings if




(a)

the claimant withdraws the claim, unless the respondent objects to the
order and the arbitral tribunal recognizes a legitimate interest on
the respondent's part in obtaining a final settlement of the dispute,




(b)

the parties agree on the termination of the proceedings, or




(c)

the arbitral tribunal finds that the continuation of the proceedings
has for any other reason become unnecessary or impossible.




(3)

Subject to sections 33 and 34 (4), the mandate of the arbitral
tribunal terminates with the termination of the arbitral proceedings.






Correction and interpretation of award; additional award




33

(1)


Within 30 days after receipt of the arbitral award, unless another
period of time has been agreed on by the parties,




(a)

a party may request the arbitral tribunal to correct in the arbitral
award any computation errors, any clerical or typographical errors or
any other errors of a similar nature, and




(b)

a party may, if agreed by the parties, request the arbitral tribunal
to give an interpretation of a specific point or part of the arbitral
award.




(2)

If the arbitral tribunal considers the request made under subsection
(1) to be justified, it must make the correction or give the
interpretation within 30 days after receipt of the request and the
interpretation forms part of the arbitral award.




(3)

The arbitral tribunal may correct any error of the type referred to in
subsection (1) (a), on its own initiative, within 30 days after the
date of the arbitral award.




(4)

Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, a party may request, within
30 days after receipt of the arbitral award, the arbitral
tribunal to make an additional arbitral award as to claims presented
in the arbitral proceedings but omitted from the arbitral award.




(5)

If the arbitral tribunal considers the request made under subsection
(4) to be justified, it must make the additional arbitral award within
60 days.




(6)

The arbitral tribunal may extend, if necessary, the period of time
within which it must make a correction, give an interpretation or make
an additional arbitral award under subsection (2) or (4).




(7)

Section 31 applies to a correction or interpretation of the
arbitral award or to an additional arbitral award made under this
section.




Part 7 — Recourse Against Arbitral Award





Application for setting aside arbitral award




34

(1)


Recourse to a court against an arbitral award may be made only by an
application for setting aside in accordance with subsections (2) and
(3).




(2)

An arbitral award may be set aside by the Supreme Court only if




(a)

the party making the application furnishes proof that




(i)

a party to the arbitration agreement was under some incapacity,




(ii)

the arbitration agreement is not valid under the law to which the
parties have subjected it or, failing any indication of that law, the
law of British Columbia,




(iii)

the party making the application was not given proper notice of the
appointment of an arbitrator or of the arbitral proceedings or was
otherwise unable to present the party's case,




(iv)

the arbitral award deals with a dispute not contemplated by or not
falling within the terms of the submission to arbitration, or it
contains decisions on matters beyond the scope of the submission to
arbitration, provided that, if the decisions on matters submitted to
arbitration can be separated from those not so submitted, only that
part of the arbitral award which contains decisions on matters not
submitted to arbitration may be set aside, or




(v)

the composition of the arbitral tribunal or the arbitral procedure was
not in accordance with the agreement of the parties, unless that
agreement was in conflict with a provision of this Act from which the
parties cannot derogate, or, failing any agreement, was not in
accordance with this Act, or




(b)

the court finds that




(i)

the subject matter of the dispute is not capable of settlement by
arbitration under the law of British Columbia, or




(ii)

the arbitral award is in conflict with the public policy in British
Columbia.




(3)

An application for setting aside may not be made after 3 months have
elapsed from the date on which the party making that application had
received the arbitral award or, if a request had been made under
section 33, from the date on which that request had been disposed
of by the arbitral tribunal.




(4)

When asked to set aside an arbitral award the court may, if it is
appropriate and it is requested by a party, adjourn the proceedings to
set aside the arbitral award for a period of time determined by it in
order to give the arbitral tribunal an opportunity to resume the
arbitral proceedings or to take such other action as in the arbitral
tribunal's opinion will eliminate the grounds for setting aside the
arbitral award.




Part 8 — Recognition and Enforcement of Arbitral Awards





Recognition and enforcement




35

(1)


Subject to this section and section 36, an arbitral award,
irrespective of the state in which it was made, must be recognized as
binding and, on application to the Supreme Court, must be enforced.




(2)

Unless the court orders otherwise, the party relying on an arbitral
award or applying for its enforcement must supply




(a)

the duly authenticated original arbitral award or a duly certified
copy of it, and




(b)

the original arbitration agreement or a duly certified copy of it.




(3)

If the arbitral award or arbitration agreement is not made in an
official language of Canada, the party must supply a duly certified
translation of it into an official language.






Grounds for refusing recognition or enforcement




36

(1)


Recognition or enforcement of an arbitral award, irrespective of the
state in which it was made, may be refused only




(a)

at the request of the party against whom it is invoked, if that party
furnishes to the competent court where recognition or enforcement is
sought proof that




(i)

a party to the arbitration agreement was under some incapacity,




(ii)

the arbitration agreement is not valid under the law to which the
parties have subjected it or, failing any indication of that law,
under the law of the state where the arbitral award was made,




(iii)

the party against whom the arbitral award is invoked was not given
proper notice of the appointment of an arbitrator or of the arbitral
proceedings or was otherwise unable to present the party's case,




(iv)

the arbitral award deals with a dispute not contemplated by or not
falling within the terms of the submission to arbitration, or it
contains decisions on matters beyond the scope of the submission to
arbitration, provided that, if the decisions on matters submitted to
arbitration can be separated from those not so submitted, that part of
the arbitral award which contains decisions on matters submitted to
arbitration may be recognized and enforced,




(v)

the composition of the arbitral tribunal or the arbitral procedure was
not in accordance with the agreement of the parties or, failing any
agreement, was not in accordance with the law of the state where the
arbitration took place, or




(vi)

the arbitral award has not yet become binding on the parties or has
been set aside or suspended by a court of the state in which, or under
the law of which, that arbitral award was made, or




(b)

if the court finds that




(i)

the subject matter of the dispute is not capable of settlement by
arbitration under the law of British Columbia, or




(ii)

the recognition or enforcement of the arbitral award would be contrary
to the public policy in British Columbia.




(2)

If an application for setting aside or suspension of an arbitral award
has been made to a court referred to in subsection (1) (a) (vi), the
court where recognition or enforcement is sought may, if it considers
it proper, adjourn its decision and may also, on the application of
the party claiming recognition or enforcement of the arbitral award,
order the other party to provide appropriate security.




(3)

For the purposes of subsection (1) (b) (ii), third party funding for
an arbitration is not contrary to the public policy in British
Columbia.




(4)

In subsection (3),
"third party funding"
, in relation to an arbitration, means funding for the arbitration
that is provided




(a)

to a party to the arbitration agreement by a person who is not a party
to that agreement, and




(b)

in consideration of the person who provides the funding receiving a
financial benefit if the funded party is successful in the
arbitration.




Part 9 — General





Privacy and confidentiality




36.01

(1)


Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, all hearings and meetings in
arbitral proceedings must be held in private.




(2)

Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, the parties and the arbitral
tribunal must not disclose any of the following:




(a)

proceedings, evidence, documents and information in connection with
the arbitration that are not otherwise in the public domain;




(b)

an arbitral award.




(3)

Subsection (2) does not apply if disclosure is




(a)

required by law,




(b)

required to protect or pursue a legal right, including for the
purposes of preparing and presenting a claim or defence in the
arbitral proceedings or enforcing or challenging an arbitral award, or




(c)

authorized by a competent court.






Immunity




36.02


An arbitrator is not liable for anything done or omitted in connection
with an arbitration unless the act or omission is in bad faith or the
arbitrator has engaged in intentional wrongdoing.






Repealed




37


[Repealed 2018-8-22.]






Offence Act




38


Section 5 of the

Offence Act

does not apply to this Act.




