




Land Surveyors Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 248






Definitions




1


In this Act:


"artificial"
means manufactured;



"artificial feature"

includes survey monuments, posts and other designated objects;



"association"

means the Association of British Columbia Land Surveyors;


"board"
means the board of management constituted under section 6;


"boundary"
means a natural or artificial line on land, below land, in airspace or
in or on any structure, the purpose of which is to indicate the limits
of an interest in the land, airspace, natural resources or structure;


"land"
includes foreshore and land covered by water;



"land surveying company"

means a company for which a permit has been issued;



"land surveyor"

means a person admitted as a land surveyor under section 47;



"land surveyor associate"

means a person who, for a Canadian jurisdiction other than British
Columbia, has a status recognized under the bylaws as equivalent to
that of a land surveyor, is registered as a land surveyor associate in
compliance with the bylaws and is not in default for fees, dues or
costs payable to the association;



"land surveyor in training"

means a person who is registered with the association as a land
surveyor in training and who is not in default for fees, dues or costs
payable to the association;


"member"
means a land surveyor, land surveyor associate or land surveyor in
training;



"nonpractising land surveyor"

means a land surveyor whose name has, after application by that
person, been placed on a list of nonpractising land surveyors and who
is not in default for fees, dues or costs payable to the association;


"permit"
means a permit issued under section 51 and includes a renewal of
that permit;



"practice of land surveying"

means




(a)

the measurement of land or airspace to




(i)

determine, locate, define, describe, establish or re-establish
boundaries, or




(ii)

determine the location of any natural or artificial feature on land or
in airspace relative to a boundary for the purpose of certifying in
writing the location of the natural or artificial feature,


and without limiting subparagraphs (i) and (ii), may include




(iii)

integrating any monument that defines a boundary, either directly or
indirectly, with a network of geodetic points of any order of
precision and determining coordinate values for the monument when
those values are used in the development or maintenance of a
geographic information system that will be used in whole or in part
for determining or establishing boundaries,




(iv)

establishing control points for the purpose of carrying out the
activities in subparagraphs (i) to (iii),




(v)

preparing maps, plans and documents in any format with respect to
determining or establishing boundaries, and




(vi)

giving advice with respect to land surveying, determining and
establishing boundaries and spatial relationships and the rules and
regulations pertaining to land surveying, and




(b)

advising on, reporting on or supervising any of the activities listed
in paragraph (a);



"practising land surveyor"

means a land surveyor who is not in default for fees, dues or costs
payable to the association, who is not under suspension and who is not
a nonpractising land surveyor;


"president"
means the person elected as president under section 25 (2);


"secretary"
means the secretary appointed under section 6 (7);


"to suspend"
, as applied to a member, means to suspend from all rights and
privileges of a member;



"vice president"

means the person elected as vice president under section 25 (2).






Association of Land Surveyors




2

(1)


The Corporation of Land Surveyors of the Province of British Columbia
is renamed the Association of British Columbia Land Surveyors and is
continued as a corporation consisting of the members.




(2)

Except as otherwise provided in this Act, the association has the
powers and capacity of a natural person of full capacity.






Repealed




3


[Repealed 2004-21-13.]






Bylaws




4

(1)


The association may pass bylaws consistent with this Act with regard
to one or more of the following:




(a)

governance, discipline and professional standards of members;




(b)

management of the property of the association;




(c)

[Repealed 2004-21-15.]




(c.1)

categories of membership, associated rosters and applicable fees or
dues;




(d)

[Repealed 2004-21-15.]




(e)

examination and admission of those persons applying to become members;




(f)

setting fees for examination and admission;




(g)

borrowing money on the credit of the association;




(h)

equipment and instruments used by members and the standard of their
work;




(i)

matters which may be necessary or expedient for the general management
of the association;




(j)

insurance that provides indemnity against professional liability
claims, including requiring members to maintain that type of
insurance;




(k)

establishing a professional practice review program for members,
including establishing a means to fund the professional practice
review program;




(l)

procedures for elections.




(2)

Bylaws made under subsection (1) may include provisions for their
enforcement and penalties for their contravention.






Passing bylaws and delegation of power to pass bylaws




5

(1)


Bylaws may be passed only at a general meeting of the association.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), by resolution indicating the scope of the
proposed bylaws, the association may delegate the power to pass
particular bylaws to the board.




(3)

Bylaws passed by the board under subsection (2) are bylaws of the
association.




(4)

A bylaw or a bylaw amendment of the association takes effect when




(a)

it has been passed under subsection (1) or (2),




(b)

it has been filed under subsection (5), and




(c)

the 45 days referred to in subsection (6) have expired, and it has not
been disallowed by the Lieutenant Governor in Council.




(5)

The board must file with the minister a certified copy of all bylaws
or bylaw amendments passed under this section.




(6)

A bylaw or bylaw amendment filed with the minister under subsection
(5) may be disallowed by the Lieutenant Governor in Council within 45
days of the bylaw or bylaw amendment being filed.






Board of management




6

(1)


Except as otherwise provided in this Act, the business, property and
affairs of the association are to be managed, and its powers may be
exercised, by the board of management.




(2)

The board consists of




(a)

the president, vice president and other members of the board elected
under section 25 or appointed or elected under subsection (4) of
this section,




(b)

the Surveyor General of British Columbia,




(c)

the last preceding president so long as the last preceding president
is a practising land surveyor,




(d)

the secretary, and




(e)

the persons appointed under subsection (9).




(3)

Members of the board hold office until




(a)

their term of office expires, or




(b)

they resign, die or cease to be practising land surveyors.




(4)

An elected member of the board who ceases to hold office under
subsection (3) (b) must be replaced by a practising land surveyor
appointed by the board or, failing an appointment, elected at an
extraordinary general meeting of the association.




(5)

Subsection (3) applies to a member of the board appointed or elected
under subsection (4).




(6)

The number of elected members of the board may be varied by bylaw or
by resolution of a general meeting of the association.




(7)

The board must appoint from among the practising land surveyors, a
secretary, who holds office at the pleasure of the board.




(8)

The secretary must not be dismissed except by the votes of at least
3/5 of the other members of the board.




(9)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may appoint up to 2 board members
who are not members of the association and who, subject to subsection
(3) (b), serve for a 2 year term.






Functions of the board




7


In addition to other powers conferred by this Act, the board's
functions include the following:




(a)

maintaining the discipline and professional standards of members;




(b)

preventing or conciliating misunderstandings between members;




(c)

hearing and deciding complaints and accusations against members about
their professional conduct;




(d)

disciplining members found guilty of misconduct or unprofessional
conduct as provided in this Act;




(e)

issuing and maintaining guidelines, for the use of members and the
general public, with respect to fees for professional services;




(f)

dealing with applications to become members;




(g)

providing for the term of articles for a land surveyor in training;




(h)

providing for examination of applicants;




(i)

ordering a member or former member to appear before the board;




(j)

preparing draft bylaws to be laid before a general meeting;




(k)

preparing and passing bylaws under powers delegated to the board under
section 5.






Quorum of the board




8

(1)


Subject to subsection (4), 3 members of the board form a quorum.




(2)

All decisions of the board must be made by a majority of its members
present at a meeting of the board.




(3)

The chair votes as a member of the board and has no additional or
casting vote.




(4)

For hearings held by the board under
sections 60, 61, 62 and 63,




(a)

5 members of the board form a quorum, and




(b)

decisions to expel or suspend a member of the association require a
majority of at least 2/3 of the members of the board present.






Repealed




9


[Repealed 2004-21-20.]






General meetings




10

(1)


An annual general meeting of the association must be held in British
Columbia once in each calendar year on a date and at a place
determined by the board.




(2)

An extraordinary general meeting may, and on the written request of 10
practising land surveyors must, be convened by order of the president
or vice president, by notice to all practising land surveyors.




(3)

Thirty practising land surveyors form a quorum at a general meeting.




(4)

Notice of a meeting ordered under subsection (2) must be sent, at
least 15 days before the date of the meeting in a manner prescribed by
bylaw, to each practising land surveyor.




(5)

A meeting under this section may be conducted by means of electronic
or other communication facilities, as long as all participants in the
meeting are able to communicate with each other.




(6)

If an annual general meeting is conducted by means of electronic or
other communication facilities, participants are deemed to be present
in person.






Repealed




11-12


[Repealed 2004-21-22.]






Report of the board




13


At each annual general meeting the board must submit a report of its
operations and business during the preceding year.






Election of board




14

(1)


The elected members of the board are to be elected, by votes to be
counted at the annual general meeting, for a term specified in the
bylaws in the manner provided by this Act and the bylaws.




(2)

The association, by a resolution at an extraordinary general meeting,
may fill vacancies for elected members of the board.




(3)

A person may not be elected a member of the board unless the person is
a practising land surveyor and has been a practising land surveyor
continuously for the 3 month period before the annual general meeting.






Repealed




15


[Repealed 2004-21-23.]






Nomination of candidates by members




16

(1)


Any 6 practising land surveyors may, in writing, nominate a candidate
for the board in any year from practising land surveyors.




(2)

The nomination must be sent to the secretary at least 2 months before
the date of the annual general meeting, accompanied by the nominee's
written consent to nomination.






Repealed




17


[Repealed 2004-21-23.]






Mailing of ballot papers




18


At least 6 weeks before the date of the annual general meeting, the
secretary must send each practising land surveyor a ballot paper in
the form provided by bylaw, setting out the names of all nominees,
their places of residence and, unless nominated by the board, the
names of those nominating them.






Nominations at extraordinary general meetings




19

(1)


Sections 16 and 18 do not apply to an election of members of the board
at an extraordinary general meeting.




(2)

Nomination of candidates may be made orally from the floor at an
extraordinary general meeting.




(3)

[Repealed 2004-21-26.]






Voting at general meetings




20

(1)


Voting at elections of members of the board at an annual general
meeting is to be by ballot on ballot papers in the form provided by
bylaw.




(2)

A voter must personally mark the voter's ballot paper and fill in the
declaration on it as provided by bylaw.




(3) and (4)

[Repealed 2004-21-27.]




(5)

For an election under subsection (1), a ballot paper containing more
marks than the number of nominees to be elected is invalid and the
votes recorded on it must not be counted.




(6)

Votes for membership on the board at an extraordinary general meeting
must be cast by the voter writing on a ballot paper the names of the
nominees for whom the voter votes.




(7)

For an election under subsection (6), a ballot paper containing the
names of more nominees than there are vacancies to be filled is
invalid and the votes recorded on it must not be counted.






Ballots to be delivered to secretary




21

(1)


Except at an election held at an extraordinary general meeting, ballot
papers must be delivered to the secretary before the closing of the
ballot box at the annual general meeting.




(2)

Ballot papers received by the secretary by post are deemed to have
been delivered.






Repealed




22-23


[Repealed 2004-21-28.]






Voters entitled to be present




24


A voter at an election has the right to be present when ballot papers
are opened and scrutinized.






Votes for candidates and officers




25

(1)


At an election of members of the board held at a general meeting, the
vacancies on the board must be filled by the candidates who receive
the highest number of votes.




(2)

The president and vice president of the association must be elected as
provided by bylaw.






Deciding a tie vote




26

(1)


If at an election 2 or more candidates receive an equal number of
votes, so that their election remains undecided, the election of the
candidates required to complete the board must be determined as
provided in subsections (2) to (4).




(2)

A scrutineer must at once put into a ballot box a slip of paper for
each candidate whose election is undecided, with the candidate's name
written on it.




(3)

The secretary must draw by chance, in the presence of the meeting, as
many slips as there are vacancies on the board still to be filled.




(4)

The persons whose names are drawn are deemed to be elected.






Secretary must declare result




27


On completion of the scrutiny and counting of votes and any drawing of
lots under section 26, the secretary must at once declare the
result of the election and cause the names of those elected to be
published in the Gazette within 30 days of declaring the result of the
vote.






Chair of the board




28

(1)


The president is the chair of meetings of the board.




(2)

In the absence of the president, the vice president is the chair.




(3)

If both the president and the vice president are absent, the members
of the board who are present may elect a chair.






Calling meetings of the board




29

(1)


A meeting of the board may be called by the president or vice
president.




(2)

A meeting of the board must be called by the president or vice
president on the request of 3 members of the board.




(3)

Notice of a meeting of the board is sufficiently given if mailed to
its members at their last known addresses.






Place and frequency of board meetings




30

(1)


Subject to subsection (1.1), meetings of the board must be held in the
City of Victoria or another place determined by the board, and may be
adjourned.




(1.1)

A meeting of the board may be conducted by means of electronic or
other communication facilities, as long as all participants in the
meeting are able to communicate with each other.




(1.2)

If a meeting of the board is conducted by means of electronic or other
communication facilities, participants are deemed to be present in
person.




(2)

The board must meet at least annually to admit candidates as members
and for other business.






Registrar




31


The secretary is the registrar and treasurer of the association.






Repealed




32


[Repealed 2004-21-33.]






Duties of secretary




33


The secretary must do the following:




(a)

keep a careful record of the proceedings of the association and the
board;




(b)

be responsible for custody of the common seal, records and archives of
the association and board;




(c)

certify copies of documents or extracts of documents from the records,
as required;




(d)

receive the money of the association, deposit it in a savings
institution and make all authorized payments;




(e)

render accounts to the annual general meeting showing receipts and
payments for the year ending on the preceding December 31;




(f)

render accounts required by the board;




(g)

make and keep among the records of the association a register of
members, with addresses, giving particulars of deaths, expulsion or
suspension from membership and other particulars that the board
directs;




(h)

generally perform other services specified by the board or the
association.






Practising land surveyors




34

(1)


The secretary must, immediately after February 1 in each year,




(a)

provide to the Surveyor General and to the registrar of each land
title district in British Columbia an alphabetical list of practising
land surveyors, made up to that day, and




(b)

publish the list in one issue of the Gazette in that month.




(2)

The secretary, on receipt after February 1 in any year of all money
due to the association from a practising land surveyor, together with
a sum sufficient to pay the cost of publishing and providing a
supplementary list, must




(a)

prepare and publish once in the Gazette the name of each practising
land surveyor who has since the publication under subsection (1) paid
all money due from the practising land surveyor to the association,
and




(b)

provide a copy of every supplementary list to the Surveyor General and
to the registrar of each land title district.




(3)

If a practising land surveyor complains to the board that a name has
been improperly inserted in or omitted from a list published under
this section, the board must promptly examine the complaint and
correct any error.




(4)

The board's decision under subsection (3) is subject to appeal
under section 67.




(5)

Any error in a list published under this section must be corrected in
accordance with the decision on appeal.




(6)

Only the votes of persons whose names appear on the list of practising
land surveyors at the date of a general meeting may be counted on any
vote at that meeting.




(7)

Each year the secretary must publish in the Gazette the name of any
practising land surveyor who since the publication of an earlier list
of practising land surveyors has ceased to be a practising land
surveyor.






Land surveyor in training




35


A person must be admitted as a land surveyor in training if the person
complies with the requirements of the bylaws.






Bylaws respecting land surveyors in training and admission as land
surveyor




35.1


The bylaws may specify any or all of the following:




(a)

the form and term of training for a land surveyor in training;




(b)

the fees to be paid by a land surveyor in training;




(c)

the basis for admission as a land surveyor in training of an
individual who has started similar training outside of British
Columbia;




(d)

the recognition of training outside of British Columbia as equivalent
to training as a land surveyor in training for the purposes of this
Act;




(e)

setting the conditions under which a land surveyor in training may
take an examination for admission as a land surveyor;




(f)

setting conditions and fees for admission as a land surveyor.






Repealed




36-41


[Repealed 2004-21-35.]






Repealed




42-43


[Repealed 2004-21-36.]






Land surveyor associate may sit examinations to become land surveyor




44


A person registered as a land surveyor associate may be permitted to
sit the examinations to become a land surveyor if the person complies
with the bylaws.






Qualifications to become a land surveyor




45


A person must not be admitted as a land surveyor unless




(a)

all of the following apply:




(i)

the person is at least 19 years of age;




(ii)

[Repealed 2015-26-45.]




(iii)

the person has satisfied the board that the person has passed all
required examinations and has complied with this Act and the bylaws,
or




(b)

the person is a person whom the board is obliged under the

Labour Mobility Act

to admit as a land surveyor.






Oath




46

(1)


Before becoming a land surveyor, a candidate for admission as a land
surveyor must take and sign before a member of the board an oath or
affirmation in the form established by bylaw.




(2)

The oath or affirmation must be kept among the records of the
association.






Admission as land surveyor




47


Admission as a land surveyor is effected by resolution of the board
and entry of the land surveyor's name in a register of members kept by
the secretary.






Issue of commission




48


A person admitted as a land surveyor who has complied with every
prerequisite of the right to practise as a land surveyor, and has paid
the sums specified by the bylaws for a commission and for the entry of
the person's name in the register of members, must be issued a
commission in writing in the form provided by bylaw and signed by the
secretary and at least one other member of the board.






Membership fees, resignation, readmission




49

(1)


On or before January 31 in each year, a member must pay to the
secretary the annual membership fee for that year set by this Act or
by bylaw.




(2)

A member continues to be liable for annual membership fees unless the
person has resigned from membership.




(3)

A member may resign membership by notice in writing to the secretary,
but is liable for the annual membership fee for the year in which the
notice is given.




(4)

A person who has resigned from membership may be readmitted as a
member if the person




(a)

applies in writing to the board,




(b)

satisfies the board of the person's competence, and




(c)

pays the annual membership fee for the year of application.




(5)

A member may not resign from membership while an inquiry or proceeding
is pending under this Act about any act or conduct of that member.




(6)

The resignation of a person from membership, and a notice given by the
person under subsection (3)




(a)

does not affect the exercise of a power of the board or a court under
this Act in respect of that person or a matter or thing existing or
done while the person was a member, and




(b)

does not relieve the person from any discipline, penalty, liability or
proceeding to which the person would otherwise be liable.






Right to practise through a company




50


Subject to this Act and the bylaws, a land surveying company may carry
on the business of providing land surveying services to the public
through one or more persons each of whom is




(a)

a practising land surveyor, or




(b)

an employee of the land surveying company under the direct supervision
of a practising land surveyor.






Corporate registration




51

(1)


The board must issue a land surveying company permit to a company
within the meaning of the

Business Corporations Act

that is in good standing under that Act if the board is satisfied that




(a)

the name of the company includes the words "land surveying",




(b)

the majority of the voting shares of the company are legally and
beneficially owned by one or more practising land surveyors or by one
or more companies the majority of whose voting shares are legally and
beneficially owned by one or more practising land surveyors,




(c)

[Repealed 2009-34-3.]




(d)

a majority of the directors of the company are practising land
surveyors, and




(e)

all of the persons who will be practising as land surveyors on behalf
of the company are practising land surveyors or are under the direct
supervision of a practising land surveyor.




(1.1)

[Repealed 2009-34-3.]




(2)

The board may refuse to issue a permit under subsection (1) if




(a)

the land surveying company has previously had its permit revoked, or




(b)

a shareholder of the land surveying company was a shareholder of a
land surveying company that previously had its permit revoked.






Prohibition against carrying on business




52

(1)


A company that has the words "land surveying" as part of its name must
not carry on any business unless it holds a permit.




(2)

A land surveying company that holds a permit must not carry on any
activities that would, for the purposes of the

Income Tax Act

(Canada), give rise to income from business, except the provision of
land surveying services or services that are directly associated with
the provision of land surveying services.




(3)

No act of a land surveying company, including a transfer of property
to or by the company, is invalid only because the company contravenes
subsection (1) or (2).






Voting agreements prohibited




53


A shareholder of a land surveying company must not enter into a voting
trust agreement, proxy or any other type of agreement that vests in
another person who is not a practising land surveyor the authority to
exercise the voting rights attached to any or all of the shares.






Responsibility of members




54

(1)


The liability for professional negligence of a member carrying on the
practice of land surveying is not affected by the fact that the member
is carrying on that practice as an employee of a land surveying
company.




(2)

The relationship of a member to a land surveying company, whether as a
shareholder, director, officer or employee of the company, does not
affect, modify or diminish the application to the member of this Act
and the bylaws.




(3)

Nothing in this Act affects, modifies or limits any law applicable to
the fiduciary, confidential or ethical relationships between a land
surveyor and a person receiving the professional services of that land
surveyor.




(4)

The relationship between a land surveying company carrying on business
as permitted under this Act and a person receiving land surveying
services provided by the company is subject to all applicable law
relating to the fiduciary, confidential and ethical relationships that
exist between a member and the member's client.






Revocation of permits




55

(1)


The board may, after a hearing, revoke the permit issued to a land
surveying company if




(a)

in the course of providing land surveying services the company does
anything that, if done by a member, would be conduct unbecoming a
member,




(b)

the company contravenes section 52, or




(c)

the company ceases to comply with a condition of qualification for a
permit referred to in section 51 or a condition under section 56 (1)
(c) or (2).




(2)

Rather than revoking a permit under subsection (1), the board may




(a)

discipline one or more of the shareholders of the land surveying
company, or




(b)

impose a fine on the land surveying company in an amount of not more
than $10 000.




(3)

If a permit is revoked under this section, the board must inform the
Registrar of Companies and the Registrar of Companies must amend the
name of the company whose permit has been revoked




(a)

by deleting the words "land surveying" from it, and




(b)

by making any other amendments to it that the Registrar of Companies
considers necessary or advisable.




(4)

All shareholders, directors, officers and employees of a land
surveying company may be




(a)

compelled to give evidence at a proceeding under this Act, other than
as a member against whom a proceeding is brought under
section 60, or




(b)

required to produce all files and records that are in their possession
or power and that are relevant to matters raised in the proceeding
referred to in paragraph (a).






Rules respecting companies




56

(1)


The board may make rules that it considers necessary or advisable for
the purposes of sections 50 to 55, including rules




(a)

respecting the issue and renewal of permits, including




(i)

the establishment of a procedure to obtain a permit and a renewal of a
permit, and




(ii)

setting fees for the obtaining of a permit or a renewal of a permit,




(b)

respecting procedures for revocation of permits, including the
adaptation, in a manner that the board considers necessary or
advisable, of rules respecting proceedings before the board,




(c)

setting conditions that may be attached to permits that are issued or
renewed under this Act,




(d)

respecting names and the approval of names, including the types of
names by which a land surveying company may be known, and




(e)

respecting the disposition of shares of a shareholder of a land
surveying company who




(i)

ceases to be a member, or




(ii)

remains a member but ceases to be a practising land surveyor.




(2)

The board may, as a condition of issuing or renewing a permit, set an
amount of insurance that the holder of the permit must carry or must
provide to each of its employees for the purpose of providing
indemnity against professional liability claims.




(3)

The rules under subsection (1) or the amount set under subsection (2)
may be different for different permit holders, at the discretion of
the board.






Bylaws apply to companies




57


The bylaws made under section 4 apply to land surveying companies, and
the association and the board may exercise the powers given by this
Act and the bylaws to enforce the bylaws made under section 4.






Appeals and other matters




58


Sections 65 to 69 apply to a land surveying company as though it were
a member.






Practice of land surveying and use of titles




59

(1)


A person must not




(a)

engage in the practice of land surveying, or




(b)

purport to be, or be held out to the public as, a land surveyor or
authorized under this Act to engage in the practice of land surveying

unless the person



(c)

is a practising land surveyor, or




(d)

practises as authorized by this Act through a land surveying company.




(2)

This Act does not affect or interfere with the right of




(a)

a lawyer to engage in the practice of law under the authority of the

Legal Profession Act

,




(b)

a notary public to provide notary services under the authority of the

Notaries Act

,




(c)

an architect to engage in the practice of professional architecture
under the authority of the

Architects Act

,




(d)

a professional engineer to engage in the practice of professional
engineering under the authority of the

Professional Governance Act

,




(e)

a professional geoscientist to engage in the practice of professional
geoscience under the authority of the

Professional Governance Act

, or




(f)

a person entitled to use the designation "applied science
technologist" or "certified technician" under the authority of the

Professional Governance Act

to perform the work usual to such designations,


if that practice or work or those services do not involve the
determination or certification of a boundary or natural or artificial
features in relation to a boundary.




(3)

Subject to subsection (4), a person must not use or display the
designation "B. C. Land Surveyor", "British Columbia Land Surveyor",
"land surveyor", "Professional Land Surveyor" or "Provincial Land
Surveyor" or the initials "B. C. L. S." or "P. L. S." unless the
person is a practising land surveyor.




(4)

A land surveyor whose name has been placed on a list of nonpractising
land surveyors, on application by the land surveyor to the
association, may use the designations or initials, the use of which is
restricted by subsection (3), if the designation or initials are
followed by the designation "Not Practising" or "Retired" or the
abbreviation "N.P." or "Ret."




(5)

A person who contravenes subsection (1) or (3) commits an offence.




(6)

This section does not apply to a land surveying company.






Land surveyors entitled to enter land




59.1

(1)


A practising land surveyor engaged in the practice of land surveying,
or a person performing, for a practising land surveyor, duties in
relation to the practice of land surveying, must be permitted to pass
over any land without hindrance from any person.




(2)

On the request of an occupier of land or a person authorized by an
occupier of land,




(a)

a practising land surveyor entering or on the land must show
identification and proof that the land surveyor is registered with the
association as a practising land surveyor, and




(b)

a person entering or on the land and performing, for a practising land
surveyor, duties in relation to the practice of land surveying must
show identification and proof that the person is acting for a
practising land surveyor.




(3)

Subsection (1) ceases to apply to a practising land surveyor, or to a
person performing, for a practising land surveyor, duties in relation
to the practice of land surveying, who fails or refuses to comply with
subsection (2).






Penalty for refusing access to land surveyor




59.2


A person commits an offence who




(a)

refuses to permit a practising land surveyor engaged in the practice
of land surveying, or a person performing, for a practising land
surveyor, duties in relation to the practice of land surveying, to
pass over any land, or




(b)

interferes with a practising land surveyor engaged in the practice of
land surveying or with a person performing, for a practising land
surveyor, duties in relation to the practice of land surveying.






Damage by land surveyor




59.3


If a practising land surveyor or a person performing, for a practising
land surveyor, duties in relation to the practice of land surveying
causes damage on land, a court of competent jurisdiction, on
application of an owner or occupier of the land or another person
injured, may order the land surveyor to pay compensation to the owner,
occupier or other person for the owner's, occupier's or other person's
damages.






Disciplinary powers




60

(1)


If the board determines that a member has breached or is in breach of
a bylaw of the association or that a former member had, while a
member, breached a bylaw of the association, the board may do one or
more of the following by order:




(a)

censure the member or former member;




(b)

suspend the member for a period, not longer than 6 months, that the
board thinks fit;




(c)

fine the member or former member an amount not more than $5 000;




(d)

order the member to participate in a peer mentoring or educational
program at the member's expense;




(e)

suspend the former member from the right to be reinstated as a member
for a period, not longer than 6 months, that the board thinks fit and
place conditions on the former member's right to be reinstated as a
member, including the condition that the former member participate in
a peer mentoring or educational program at the former member's
expense.




(2)

If the board determines that a member has been guilty of
unprofessional conduct or that a former member, while a member, was
guilty of unprofessional conduct, the board may do one or more of the
following by order:




(a)

censure the member or former member;




(b)

suspend the member for a period that the board thinks fit or expel the
member;




(c)

fine the member or former member an amount not more than $10 000;




(d)

order the member to participate in a peer mentoring or educational
program at the member's expense;




(e)

suspend the former member from the right to be reinstated as a member
for a period that the board thinks fit and place conditions on the
former member's right to be reinstated as a member, including the
condition that the former member participate in a peer mentoring or
educational program at the former member's expense;




(f)

prohibit the former member from applying to be reinstated as a member.




(3)

Unprofessional conduct includes, among other things, falsification of
documents and the negligent or improper performance of a professional
duty.




(4)

The board may expel from membership, or suspend for a period it thinks
fit, a member convicted of a criminal offence which, in the board's
opinion, involves moral turpitude.




(5)

The board may order payment by a member whom it has found guilty of an
offence, of the costs of any hearing relating to the offence,
including the expenses of witnesses.




(6)

The amount of the costs ordered under subsection (5) must be
ascertained and certified by the secretary.




(7)

The secretary must send a copy of a certificate made under subsection
(6) to the offender.




(8)

Within 10 days of receiving a certificate under subsection (7), an
offender may appeal to the board by notice in writing.




(9)

A decision of the board under subsection (8) is subject to
further appeal under section 66.




(10)

The board may, by order made at any time, suspend an offending member
until the member pays any costs which the board has ordered the member
to pay.




(11)

The association may recover the costs as a debt by action in a court
of competent jurisdiction.




(12)

The powers conferred by this section may be exercised against a member
while the member is under suspension.






Summons to appear




61

(1)


Before disciplining a member or former member, the board must summon
the member or former member to appear before them by summons signed by
the secretary, or, in the secretary's absence, by 2 members of the
board, giving the member or former member reasonable notice and
indicating with reasonable particularity the matters the member or
former member will be called on to answer.




(2)

If a member or former member fails to appear as required by a summons,
the board may proceed in the member's or former member's absence and
make any order or decision it could have made if the member or former
member were present.






Summons to witnesses




62

(1)


By a summons issued in the same way as a summons under
section 61, the board may require




(a)

the attendance of a witness at a hearing involving the conduct of a
member or former member, and




(b)

the production of any records.




(2)

The board may examine witnesses under oath.




(3)

A summons issued by the board has the force of a subpoena issued out
of the Supreme Court.




(4)

A witness who disobeys a summons issued by the board or refuses to be
sworn or give evidence is liable, on application to the Supreme Court,
to attachment, fine or other punishment the court thinks fit.






Board may institute inquiry




63

(1)


The board has full power to inquire into a suspected breach of a bylaw
or suspected unprofessional conduct by a member or former member, and,
without any complaint having been made, may summon the member or
former member to appear before the board for examination as to the
matters specified in the summons.




(2)

On return of the summons or at an adjournment of the hearing, the
board may examine the member or former member on oath.




(3)

If a member or former member is summoned under this section, the board
may discipline the member or former member under section 60 if the
member or former member




(a)

fails to appear before the board,




(b)

refuses to be sworn or to answer questions put to the member or former
member to the board's satisfaction, or




(c)

is found by the board, on examination or on the evidence of witnesses,
to have been guilty of breach of a bylaw or of unprofessional conduct.




(4)

The powers conferred by this section may be exercised against a member
or former member whether or not the member or former member is under
suspension.




(5)

In proceedings under this section a member of the board is not
disqualified merely because the board proceeded on its own motion or
at the instance of a member of the board.




(6)

In proceedings under this section all members of the board, whether
initiators of the proceedings or not, are entitled to sit and
adjudicate at any hearing.






Multiple offences




64


Any number of offences or of alleged or suspected offences may be
dealt with at one hearing and disposed of in one order.






Entry of disciplinary action in register




65


If a member or former member is disciplined under section 60 (1) (b)
or (e) or (2) (b), (e) or (f)




(a)

the secretary must record the effect of the discipline order against
the name of the member or former member in the register of members,
and




(b)

a notice of the discipline order must be published in the Gazette
within 15 days of the making of the order.






Right of appeal




66


An order or decision of the board under
section 34, 60, 61 or 63 may be appealed to the
Supreme Court by the member or former member affected.






Procedure on appeal




67

(1)


An appeal to the Supreme Court under section 66 must be made by
service of a notice of appeal, containing the grounds of appeal,
within 30 days from the date the appellant first had notice of the
board's order or decision, or if notice of the order or decision is
published in the Gazette, within 30 days of the publication.




(2)

The notice of appeal must be served on the board.




(3)

Within 10 days after service of notice of appeal, the appellant must




(a)

set down the appeal for hearing as though it were a trial,




(b)

deposit a record of all proceedings before the board for the use of
the court, and




(c)

provide a copy of the record to each respondent.






Hearing of appeal




68

(1)


On the hearing of an appeal, the court must proceed on the record of
the proceedings before the board, unless the court, for special
reasons, directs further evidence to be received.




(2)

On the hearing of an appeal, the court may review the decision of the
board on the facts and the law, and reverse or confirm all or part of
it, or remit the proceedings to the board for a rehearing.




(3)

The court may reverse a decision only if it appears that substantial
justice has not been done.




(4)

On the hearing of an appeal, the court has a discretion like that of
the board and may




(a)

make any order which the board should have made,




(b)

modify a penalty imposed, or




(c)

impose the penalty which the board should have imposed.




(5)

Appeals must be heard in the City of Victoria or of Vancouver, unless
otherwise agreed by the board and the parties concerned.






Appeal only remedy




69


An order or decision of the board must not be quashed or reviewed by
any means other than an appeal as provided in this Act.






Injunction




70


On application of the board and on being satisfied that there is
reason to believe that there is or will be a contravention of this
Act, the Supreme Court may grant an injunction restraining a person
from continuing or committing the contravention, and, pending
disposition of the action seeking the injunction, the court may grant
an interim injunction.






Protection of members of board




71


An action may not be brought against the board or a member of it for
anything done in good faith in pursuance or intended pursuance of this
Act.






Records certified by secretary shall be evidence




72


Copies of records of the association certified under the signature of
the secretary and the seal of the association are admissible in all
courts in British Columbia as evidence of the original records.






Money recoverable belongs to the association




73


All fees, fines, penalties and costs receivable or recoverable under
this Act, other than under section 59, or a bylaw are the
property of the association.






Application of
Offence Act




74


Section 5 of the

Offence Act

does not apply to this Act or to the bylaws of the association.






Power to make rules for surveys




75

(1)


For the purposes of this Act and the following enactments, the
association may make rules for surveys and plans, including plans in
electronic format:




(a)

section 24 of the

Coal Act

;




(b)

section 73 of the

Land Act

;




(c)

sections 12 (2) and 14 (1) of the

Land Survey Act

;




(d)

section 385 (5) of the

Land Title Act

;




(e)

section 64 of the

Mineral Tenure Act

;




(f)

section 121 (3) of the

Petroleum and Natural Gas Act

;




(g)

section 112 (1) (g) of the

Energy Resource Activities Act

;




(h)

sections 68 (4) and 244 (1) (e) of the

Strata Property Act

.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the association may do one or more of
the following:




(a)

make rules for the design and specifications for permanent survey
monuments or reference posts;




(b)

for the purposes of a rule made under subsection (1), provide for the
exemption of a particular survey from the application of rules made
under subsection (1);




(c)

make rules requiring a land surveyor to report damage to or
destruction of a control monument to the Surveyor General;




(d)

for surveys under the

Land Act

, make rules allowing new posts to be set on existing lines without
retracement in appropriate circumstances if certain conditions are
met;




(e)

make rules allowing modified posting of bare land strata lots for the
purposes of the

Strata Property Act

.




(3)

Rules made under subsections (1) and (2) do not have effect until
approved by order of the Surveyor General.




(4)

The Surveyor General may recommend to the association that the
association make a rule or amend a rule made under this section and,
if the association fails to act on the recommendation within the time
specified by the Surveyor General, the Surveyor General, by order, may
amend the rules made by the association.




