





Medical Research (BC Cancer Agency) and Health Status Registry Act

[SBC 2018] CHAPTER 1


Deposited with Clerk of the Legislative Assembly on August 20, 2018








Definitions




1


In this Act:



"BC Cancer Agency"

means the British Columbia Cancer Agency Branch, a society
incorporated under the

Societies Act

and that reports to the Provincial Health Services Authority;



"Health Status Registry"

means the Health Status Registry continued under section 5 (1);


"request"
means a request made under section 2 (1) or 5 (2), as applicable.






Request for research information




2

(1)


The BC Cancer Agency may request any person to provide the agency with
prescribed information or records, or classes of information or
records, if there are reasonable grounds to believe that




(a)

the information or records will facilitate medical research, and




(b)

the benefit to the public of the research justifies the request.




(2)

Subject to any other enactment, a person to whom a request is made
under subsection (1) must comply with the request in the manner and at
the times requested if the information or records are within the
person's possession or control.




(3)

The minister may make regulations prescribing the information or
records, or classes of information or records, that may be requested
under this section.






Disclosure of research information




3


A person must not disclose information or records the person has
obtained under section 2 to another person except as follows:




(a)

to a person engaged in medical research, whether or not the person is
engaged in medical research for the BC Cancer Agency, for the purpose
of medical research;




(b)

in court proceedings related to this Act or a regulation;




(c)

under an agreement that




(i)

is between the BC Cancer Agency and a government, government agency or
another organization engaged in medical research,




(ii)

relates to medical research, and




(iii)

provides for the disclosure of information or records to that
government, government agency or other organization;




(d)

for the purpose of compiling statistical information by a government,
government agency or other organization, if the information is
compiled to facilitate medical research.






Immunity from legal proceedings




4


An action for damages does not lie for anything done or omitted in
good faith in the exercise or purported exercise of a power conferred
under section 2 or 3 or the performance or purported performance of a
duty imposed under section 2 or 3.






Request for registry information




5

(1)


The Health Status Registry is continued for the purpose of recording
and classifying, for statistical or health research purposes,
information concerning one or more of the following matters:




(a)

congenital anomalies;




(b)

genetic conditions;




(c)

chronic disabling conditions of individuals.




(2)

A person acting on behalf of the Health Status Registry may request
any person to provide the registry with information or records
concerning the matters listed in subsection (1) if there are
reasonable grounds to believe that




(a)

the information will facilitate the purpose of the registry, and




(b)

the likely benefit to the public justifies the request.




(3)

A person to whom a request is made under subsection (2) must comply
with the request in the manner and at the times requested if the
information or record is within the person's possession or control.






Disclosure of registry information




6


A person acting on behalf of the Health Status Registry must not
communicate personally identifying information obtained under section
5 to persons who are not acting on behalf of the registry except to
the extent necessary for the purpose stated in section 5 (1).






Dispute of request




7

(1)


A person aggrieved by a request may apply to the Supreme Court for a
review of the request.




(2)

An application under subsection (1) suspends the request until the
court makes an order under subsection (3).




(3)

On a review of a request, the court may order the cancellation of the
request or make any other order it considers appropriate.






Offences




8

(1)


A person who makes a request other than as authorized under section 2
(1) or 5 (2) commits an offence.




(2)

A person who contravenes any of sections 2 (2), 3, 5 (3) and 6 commits
an offence.




(3)

Section 5 of the

Offence Act

does not apply to this Act.




Revision Schedule â€” Amendment to Revised Act









[Note: See Table of Legislative Changes for the status of this
Revision Schedule.]









Section(s)





Affected Act






1





Medical Research (BC Cancer Agency) and Health Status Registry
Act







Commencement


2
Section 1 of this Schedule comes into force by regulation of the
Lieutenant Governor in Council.



