




Medicare Protection Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 286






Preamble


WHEREAS the people and government of British Columbia believe that
medicare is one of the defining features of Canadian nationhood and
are committed to its preservation for future generations;


WHEREAS the people and government of British Columbia wish to confirm
and entrench universality, comprehensiveness, accessibility,
portability, public administration and sustainability as the guiding
principles of the health care system of British Columbia and are
committed to the preservation of these principles in perpetuity;


WHEREAS the people and government of British Columbia are committed to
building a public health care system that is founded on the values of
individual choice, personal responsibility, innovation, transparency
and accountability;


WHEREAS the people and government of British Columbia are committed to
developing an efficient, effective and integrated health care system
aimed at promoting and improving the health of all citizens and
providing high quality patient care that is medically appropriate and
that ensures reasonable access to medically necessary services
consistent with the

Canada Health Act

;


WHEREAS the people and government of British Columbia wish to ensure
that all publicly funded health care services are responsive to
patients' needs and designed to foster improvements in individual and
public health outcomes and ongoing value-for-money for all taxpayers;


WHEREAS the people and government of British Columbia recognize a
responsibility for the judicious use of medical services in order to
maintain a fiscally sustainable health care system for future
generations;


AND WHEREAS the people and government of British Columbia believe it
to be fundamental that an individual's access to necessary medical
care be solely based on need and not on the individual's ability to
pay.






Definitions




1


In this Act:


"adult"
means a person 19 years of age or older;



"appropriate disciplinary body"

means the person or body that may cancel or suspend the right to
practise under




(a)

an enactment, as a chiropractor, a dentist, a medical practitioner, an
optometrist or a podiatrist in British Columbia, or




(b)

the governing Act, bylaws or rules for a member of the health care
profession or occupation prescribed for the purposes of paragraph (b)
of the definition of "health care practitioner";



"appropriate licensing body"

means the person or body having the power to grant the right to
practise as a practitioner under




(a)

an enactment, as a chiropractor, a dentist, a medical practitioner, an
optometrist or a podiatrist in British Columbia, or




(b)

the governing Act, bylaws or rules for a member of the health care
profession or occupation prescribed for the purposes of paragraph (b)
of the definition of "health care practitioner";



"approved diagnostic facility"

means a diagnostic facility approved under section 33;



"beneficiary"

means a resident who is enrolled in accordance with section 7.2,
and includes the resident's child if the child is enrolled under
section 7.2;


"benefits"
means




(a)

medically required services rendered by a medical practitioner who is
enrolled under section 13, unless the services are determined
under section 5 by the commission not to be benefits,




(b)

required services prescribed as benefits under section 51 and
rendered by a health care practitioner who is enrolled under
section 13, or




(c)

unless determined by the commission under section 5 not to be
benefits, medically required services performed




(i)

in an approved diagnostic facility, and




(ii)

by or under the supervision of an enrolled medical practitioner who is
acting




(A)

on request of a person in a prescribed category of persons, or




(B)

in accordance with protocols approved by the commission;


"chair"
, other than with reference to a special committee, means the
individual who is appointed under section 3 to chair the
commission;


"child"
means a person who




(a)

is a child of a beneficiary or a person in respect of whom a
beneficiary stands in the place of a parent and who




(i)

is a minor,




(ii)

[Repealed 2011-13-108.]




(b)

does not have a spouse, and




(c)

is supported by the beneficiary;


"commission"
means the Medical Services Commission continued under section 3;



"diagnostic facility"

means a facility, place or office principally equipped for prescribed
diagnostic services, studies or procedures, and includes any branches
of a diagnostic facility;


"enrol"
means,




(a)

in respect of a beneficiary, enrolment under section 7.2, and




(b)

in respect of a practitioner, enrolment under section 13;


"former Act"
means the
Medical Service Act
, R.S.B.C. 1979, c. 255;



"health care practitioner"

means a person entitled to practise as




(a)

a chiropractor, a dentist, an optometrist or a podiatrist in British
Columbia under an enactment, or




(b)

a member of a health care profession or occupation that may be
prescribed;



"payment schedule"

means a payment schedule established under section 26;


"plan"
means the Medical Services Plan continued under section 3;



"practitioner"

means




(a)

a medical practitioner, or




(b)

a health care practitioner


who is enrolled under section 13;


"render"
means perform personally by or under the personal supervision of the
person to whom reference is being made and "personal supervision" in
this context means




(a)

in the case of a practitioner, personal supervision authorized by the
commission in the circumstances, and




(b)

in the case of a medical practitioner or health care practitioner who
is not enrolled, personal supervision acceptable to the appropriate
disciplinary body for the medical practitioner or health care
practitioner;


"resident"
means a person who




(a)

is a citizen of Canada or is lawfully admitted to Canada for permanent
residence,




(b)

makes the person's home in British Columbia, and




(c)

is physically present in British Columbia for




(i)

at least 6 months in a calendar year, or




(ii)

a shorter prescribed period,


and includes a person who is deemed under the regulations to be a
resident but does not include a tourist or visitor to British
Columbia;



"special committee"

means a special committee established under section 4;


"spouse"
means a resident who




(a)

is married to another person, or




(b)

is living with another person in a marriage-like relationship.






Purpose




2


The purpose of this Act is to preserve a publicly managed and fiscally
sustainable health care system for British Columbia in which access to
necessary medical care is based on need and not an individual's
ability to pay.






Application to laboratory services




2.1


This Act does not apply to laboratory services that are benefits
within the meaning of the

Laboratory Services Act

.




Part 1 — Medical Services Commission





Commission and Medical Services Plan




3

(1)


The Medical Services Commission is continued consisting of 9 members
appointed by the Lieutenant Governor in Council as follows:




(a)

3 members appointed from among 3 or more persons nominated by the
Association of Doctors of BC;




(b)

3 members appointed on the joint recommendation of the minister and
the Association of Doctors of BC to represent beneficiaries;




(c)

3 members appointed to represent the government.




(2)

The commission reports to the minister.




(3)

The Medical Services Plan established under the former Act is
continued and the function of the commission is to facilitate, in the
manner provided for in this Act, reasonable access, throughout British
Columbia, to quality medical care, health care and prescribed
diagnostic services for residents of British Columbia under the
Medical Services Plan.




(4)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council must designate a member of the
commission appointed under subsection (1) (c) as its chair and may
designate another member of the commission as its deputy chair.




(5)

The chair of the commission must call a meeting at least once every
2 months and, by giving written notice to the chair, 3 or more
members of the commission can require the chair to call a meeting.




(6)

In the event that a member of the commission is absent for more than 3
consecutive meetings of the commission, the member ceases to be a
member of the commission.




(7)

Despite subsection (6) the commission may waive this requirement with
the agreement of a majority of the commission.




(8)

Each member of the commission has one vote.




(9)

Decisions of the commission are on the agreement of the majority of
members present at a meeting.




(10)

If the commission is not meeting, the chair may exercise a power, duty
and function that the commission may exercise unless the commission
has directed that the chair is not to exercise the power, duty or
function.




(11)

The commission may sue or be sued in its own name or in the name of
the government in any civil action respecting the commission or a
special committee, but any proceeding by or against the commission is
binding on the government, and the

Crown Proceeding Act

applies accordingly.




(12)

Members of the commission or a special committee who are not public
servants are entitled to receive reimbursement for expenses,
remuneration and benefits set by the Lieutenant Governor in Council.




(13)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may appoint a public administrator
to discharge the powers, duties and functions of the commission under
this Act if the Lieutenant Governor in Council considers this
necessary in the public interest.




(14)

On the appointment of a public administrator under subsection (13),
the members of the commission cease to hold office unless otherwise
ordered by the Lieutenant Governor in Council.






Special committees respecting health care practitioners




4

(1)


After consultation with the appropriate licensing body, the Lieutenant
Governor in Council may establish one or more special committees to
exercise the powers, duties or functions of the commission under this
Act that are specified by the Lieutenant Governor in Council for a
body of health care practitioners.




(2)

A special committee established under subsection (1) is composed of
the persons the Lieutenant Governor in Council specifies and exercises
its powers, duties or functions on the terms and conditions the
Lieutenant Governor in Council specifies.




(3)

A special committee established under subsection (1) may establish a
panel and the powers, duties and functions of the special committee
may be exercised, subject to the regulations, by the panel.




(4)

A power, duty or function given under subsection (1) to a special
committee may continue to be exercised by the commission unless the
Lieutenant Governor in Council directs that the commission not
exercise the power, duty or function.




(5)

A power, duty or function given under subsection (1) to one special
committee may also be given under subsection (1) to another special
committee.




(6)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council must designate the chair of each
special committee and may designate a deputy chair of each special
committee.






Responsibilities and powers of the commission




5

(1)


The commission may do one or more of the following:




(a)

administer this Act on a non-profit basis;




(b)

[Repealed 2019-8-2.]




(c)

determine the services rendered by an enrolled medical practitioner,
or performed in an approved diagnostic facility, that are not benefits
under this Act;




(d)

determine the manner by which claims for payment of benefits rendered
in or outside British Columbia to beneficiaries are made;




(e)

determine the information required to be provided by beneficiaries and
practitioners for the purpose of assessing or reassessing claims for
payment of benefits rendered to beneficiaries;




(f)

investigate and determine whether a person is a resident and, for this
purpose, require the person to provide the commission with evidence,
satisfactory to the commission, that residency has been established;




(g)

determine whether a person is a spouse or a child;




(g.1)

determine whether a person is a member of a prescribed class;




(h)

determine whether a person is a medical practitioner or a health care
practitioner;




(i)

determine for the purposes of this Act whether a person meets the
requirements established in the regulations for additional benefits or
services;




(j)

determine whether a service is a benefit or whether any matter is
related to the rendering of a benefit;




(j.1)

make payments and recover debts referred to in section 21 (2);




(k)

determine before or after a service is rendered outside British
Columbia whether the service would be a benefit if it were rendered in
British Columbia;




(l)

determine whether a diagnostic facility, or a benefit performed in an
approved diagnostic facility, meets the requirements of the
regulations;




(m)

monitor and assess the effectiveness and efficiency of benefits;




(n)

enter, with the prior approval of the Lieutenant Governor in Council,
into agreements on behalf of the government with Canada, a province,
another jurisdiction in or outside Canada or a person in or outside
British Columbia for the purposes of this Act;




(o)

establish advisory committees, including pattern of practice
committees, to advise and assist the commission in exercising its
powers, functions and duties under this Act, and may remunerate
members of a committee at a rate fixed by the commission and pay
reasonable and necessary travelling and living expenses incurred by
members of a committee in the performance of their duties;




(p)

authorize surveys and research programs to obtain information for
purposes related to the provision of benefits;




(q)

enter into arrangements and make payment for the costs of rendering
benefits that will be provided on a fee for service or other basis;




(q.1)

establish, subject to this Act and the regulations, rules to govern
its own practices and procedures for the conduct of hearings under
section 15 or 37, including the following:




(i)

the conduct of negotiations or a pre-hearing conference for possible
settlement of the issues before a hearing is commenced;




(ii)

the means by which particular facts may be proved or the mode in which
evidence may be given at a pre-hearing conference or a hearing;




(iii)

the time limits for the exchange of documents, reports and affidavits
in preparation for a pre-hearing conference or a hearing;




(iv)

the requirements for the attendance of witnesses, the conduct of
witnesses or the compelling of witnesses to give evidence under oath
or in some other manner;




(q.2)

require that a party to a hearing under section 15 or 37 submit a
matter at issue in the hearing to non-binding mediation;




(r)

provide to a person or body prescribed by the Lieutenant Governor in
Council, for the purpose of an audit or investigation of a
practitioner's pattern of practice or billing, information concerning
claims submitted by that practitioner to the commission;




(s)

apply section 26 for supply management and optimum distribution of
medical care, health care and prescribed diagnostic services
throughout British Columbia;




(t)

establish guidelines setting the number of practitioners that a
beneficiary may consult respecting the same medical condition within
the period specified in the guidelines;




(u)

exercise other powers or functions that are authorized by the
regulations or the minister.




(2)

The commission must not act under subsection (1) in a manner that does
not satisfy the criteria described in section 7 of the

Canada Health Act

.




(3)

For the purposes of a hearing under this Act, sections 34 (3) and (4),
48 and 49 of the

Administrative Tribunals Act

apply to the commission.




(4)

The

Financial Administration Act

applies to the commission as though the commission were a division of
the ministry that is administered by the minister.




(5)

Without limiting subsection (1) (n), the commission may, with the
prior approval of the Lieutenant Governor in Council, enter into an
information-sharing agreement with




(a)

Canada, a province or another jurisdiction in or outside Canada, or




(b)

a public body as defined in the

Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act

.




(6)

For the purpose of subsection (5),

"information-sharing agreement"

means a data-matching or other agreement to exchange personal or other
information for the purpose of administering medical or health care
benefits provided under




(a)

this Act,




(b)

a prescribed enactment of British Columbia, or




(c)

a prescribed enactment of Canada, a province or another jurisdiction
in Canada.




(6.1)

If the commission enters into an information-sharing agreement under
subsection (5), the commission may, in accordance with the agreement,
collect and use personal information from, and disclose personal
information to, the party with whom the agreement was made.




(7)

The commission must prepare and file with the minister as soon as
practicable each year a report for the fiscal year ending
March 31 in that year respecting the work of the commission and
its special committees, and the minister must lay the report before
the Legislative Assembly as soon as is practicable.






Investigations by commission




5.01


The commission may investigate for the purposes of this Act, including
for the purpose of determining whether there is cause within the
meaning of section 11 (1) (a), (a.1), (b), (c) or (c.1).






Guiding principles




5.1


In performing its responsibilities and exercising its powers under
section 5 (1) and in performing its responsibilities under section 5
(2), in addition to taking into account any broad policy issues and
other matters the commission considers relevant, the commission must
have regard to the following principles, as set out in sections 5.2 to
5.7:




(a)

the principles established under the

Canada Health Act

as the criteria for a province to qualify for a full cash contribution
for a fiscal year, those principles being public administration,
comprehensiveness, universality, portability and accessibility;




(b)

the principle of sustainability.






Public administration




5.2


The plan is publicly funded and operated on an accountable basis.






Comprehensiveness




5.3


The plan includes as benefits




(a)

all medically required services provided by enrolled medical
practitioners,




(b)

all required services provided by enrolled health care practitioners
and prescribed as benefits under section 51,




(c)

benefits that are performed in approved diagnostic facilities, and




(d)

any benefits that are performed by practitioners in a health facility
that has entered into an agreement with one or more regional health
boards designated under the

Health Authorities Act

or with the Provincial Health Services Authority, in accordance with
the agreement.






Universality




5.4


The plan applies to 100% of beneficiaries on uniform terms and
conditions.






Portability




5.5


The plan applies to the following individuals:




(a)

beneficiaries who are temporarily absent from British Columbia or
moving to another province;




(b)

eligible individuals who are moving to British Columbia;




(c)

eligible individuals visiting British Columbia from another province
that has entered into a reciprocal agreement with British Columbia for
medical and health care services, in accordance with that agreement.






Accessibility




5.6


The plan provides benefits on uniform terms and conditions on a basis
that does not impede or preclude reasonable access to benefits by
beneficiaries.






Sustainability




5.7


The plan is administered in a manner that is sustainable over the long
term, providing for the health needs of the residents of British
Columbia and assuring that annual health expenditures are within
taxpayers' ability to pay without compromising the ability of the
government to meet the health needs and other needs of current and
future generations.






Power to delegate




6

(1)


In this section,
"panel"
means a panel of 3 or more persons who are appointed by the commission
and who represent each of the following:




(a)

the Association of Doctors of BC;




(b)

beneficiaries;




(c)

government.




(2)

The commission may delegate any of the commission's or the chair's
powers or duties, except those under section 11 (2), 15 (2), 24, 25,
26, 33 (4) or 37 (1), to a person or panel.




(3)

The commission may delegate powers or duties under section 11 (2), 15
(2), 33 (4) or 37 (1) but only to a panel selected by the
commission.




Part 2 — Beneficiaries





Application for enrolment of beneficiaries




7

(1)


A resident must apply to the commission




(a)

for enrolment as a beneficiary, if not already enrolled, and




(b)

for enrolment of each of the resident's children as a beneficiary if
the child




(i)

is a resident, and




(ii)

is not already enrolled, or does not already have someone applying for
enrolment on the child's behalf.




(2)

Unless exempted under this Act, an adult resident must apply to the
commission, within the prescribed period or at the prescribed time, to
renew the resident's enrolment as a beneficiary.




(3)

Subsections (1) (a) and (2) do not apply to an adult resident who
submits, or has submitted, a statement to the commission in the manner
required by the commission stating that the resident does not want to
be enrolled as a beneficiary.




(4)

A statement under subsection (3) may not be submitted for the purpose
of requesting that a child described by subsection (1) (b) not be
enrolled.




(5)

Applications under this section must




(a)

be made in the prescribed manner, and




(b)

be accompanied by proof of identity and residency in accordance with
the regulations.






Exemptions by commission




7.1

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), the commission may exempt a person from one
or more of the following requirements:




(a)

to renew enrolment under section 7 (2);




(b)

to renew enrolment within the prescribed period or at the prescribed
time;




(c)

to provide proof of identity or residency for the purposes of
enrolment or renewal of enrolment.




(2)

Before making an exemption, the commission must be satisfied that




(a)

the person is, or is likely, a resident, and




(b)

the exemption is necessary because compliance with a requirement
referred to in subsection (1) is impractical or would cause undue
hardship in the circumstances.




(3)

The commission may, in making an exemption,




(a)

make an alternative requirement, or




(b)

attach limits or conditions to the exemption.






Enrolment of beneficiaries




7.2

(1)


After confirming the identity and determining the residency of




(a)

an applicant under section 7 (1) or (2), and




(b)

each of the applicant's children named in the application,


the commission must enrol as beneficiaries those covered by the
application who are residents.




(2)

After confirming the identity and determining the residency of a
child, the commission may, at any time, enrol as a beneficiary a child
who is a resident.




(3)

Enrolment is effective on the date stated by the commission, that date
being




(a)

on or before the date on which the application under section 7 (1) or
(2) was made, or




(b)

not more than 3 months after receipt of the application.




(4)

The commission must not enrol a person as a beneficiary for a
prescribed period from the date that the commission




(a)

receives a statement under section 7 (3) from the person, or




(b)

cancels the enrolment of the person under section 7.4 (1) (a).




(5)

[Repealed 2019-8-2.]






Change of enrolment information




7.3


A beneficiary must, within 10 days of the change, provide the
commission with the beneficiary's former and new




(a)

addresses, if the beneficiary's address changes, or




(b)

names, if the beneficiary's name changes.






Cancellation of beneficiary enrolment




7.4

(1)


The commission may cancel the enrolment of a beneficiary as follows:




(a)

on application by an adult beneficiary, effective on a date subsequent
to the date of the application as determined by the commission;




(b)

if the commission believes the beneficiary has ceased to be a
resident, effective on the date the commission determines to have been
the date that the beneficiary ceased to be a resident;




(c)

if the commission determines that the beneficiary was not eligible for
enrolment, effective on the date of enrolment as a beneficiary.




(2)

Subsection (1) (a) does not apply for the purpose of requesting that
the enrolment of a child described by section 7 (1) (b) be cancelled.




(2.1)

Before making a cancellation under subsection (1) (b) or (c), the
commission must notify the beneficiary in a manner the beneficiary can
understand




(a)

of the commission's intention to proceed,




(b)

of the circumstances giving rise to the commission's intended action,




(c)

that the beneficiary has the right to a hearing, to be requested by
the beneficiary within 21 days from the date that the notice was
delivered, and to appear in person, with or without legal counsel, at
the hearing, and




(d)

that if the beneficiary does not request a hearing or appear at the
hearing, an order may be made in the beneficiary's absence.




(3)

If a beneficiary does not apply to renew enrolment in accordance with
section 7 (2), the beneficiary's enrolment is cancelled effective on
the date by which the beneficiary was required by the regulations to
renew.






Repealed




8-8.2


[Repealed 2019-8-2.]






Payments for benefits




9


Subject to sections 10 (1), 11, 14 and 15, a beneficiary is entitled
to have payment made in accordance with amounts in a payment schedule
for a benefit that the beneficiary has received and this payment will
be




(a)

at a reduced rate, if applicable, as provided for under this Act, and




(b)

less any applicable patient visit charge.






Beneficiary requesting payment




10

(1)


If a beneficiary receives benefits from a practitioner who has




(a)

made an election under section 14 (1), or




(b)

been the subject of an order made under section 15 (2) (b),


or if a beneficiary is enrolled or reinstated retroactively after
receipt of benefits, the beneficiary may submit the claim form,
completed as required by section 14 (9), and any other prescribed or
required information to the commission for payment of the amount that
would otherwise be payable to the practitioner.




(2)

After assessing the claim under section 27 (2), the commission may pay
the beneficiary.






Order in respect of beneficiary




11

(1)


In this section,
"cause"
, in respect of a beneficiary, includes, but is not limited to the
following:




(a)

knowingly requesting services that are not medically required from a
practitioner to be claimed as a benefit;




(a.1)

knowingly requesting a practitioner to request a laboratory service
that




(i)

is a benefit within the meaning of the

Laboratory Services Act

, and




(ii)

is not medically required;




(b)

submitting a claim under section 10 (1) to the commission for payment
knowing that




(i)

a benefit had not been rendered, or




(ii)

the nature or extent of the benefit that was rendered had been
misrepresented;




(c)

contravening section 12;




(c.1)

providing to another person the beneficiary's identity number, issued
by the commission to the beneficiary, knowing that the other person
would, or would likely, use the identity number to contravene section
12;




(d)

refusing to reply in good faith to a communication from the
commission.




(2)

The commission may, for cause, after giving the beneficiary an
opportunity to be heard, make an order to restrict




(a)

the number of practitioners who will be paid for benefits rendered to
that beneficiary, or




(b)

the liability of the commission for payment for specified benefits
rendered to that beneficiary.




(3)

Despite subsection (4), if the commission has reason to believe that
the beneficiary is not a resident, it may make an order described in
subsection (2) for a period of not longer than 30 days without hearing
the beneficiary.




(4)

Before making an order under subsection (2), the commission must
notify the beneficiary in a manner the beneficiary can understand




(a)

of the commission's intention to proceed,




(b)

of the circumstances giving rise to the commission's intended action,




(c)

that the beneficiary has the right to a hearing, to be requested by
the beneficiary within 21 days from the date that the notice was
delivered, and to appear in person, with or without legal counsel, at
the hearing, and




(d)

that if the beneficiary does not request a hearing or appear at the
hearing, an order may be made in the beneficiary's absence.




(5)

If the commission makes an order under subsection (2), a practitioner
who renders a benefit to the beneficiary in a manner that conflicts
with the order is not entitled to payment by the commission for the
benefit, unless the commission otherwise orders.




(6)

If the commission makes an order under subsection (2), the commission
must not pay for any benefit rendered in an approved diagnostic
facility if the benefit is rendered in a manner that conflicts with
the order, unless the commission otherwise orders.




(7)

If the commission makes an order under subsection (2), the commission
must




(a)

give written notice to the affected beneficiary stating the nature of
the order and the reasons why it was made, and




(b)

give a written or electronically recorded message to all appropriate
practitioners advising that the order has been made.




(8)

If a beneficiary, in respect of whom an order has been made under
subsection (2), receives a benefit contrary to the terms of the order,




(a)

the beneficiary is liable to pay the practitioner or approved
diagnostic facility for the benefit, or




(b)

if the practitioner or approved diagnostic facility has been paid by
the commission for that benefit, the beneficiary must reimburse the
commission and until reimbursement has been made, the amount that was
paid for the benefit is a debt owing to the commission.






Misuse of identity number




12


A person must not knowingly, in order to obtain benefits,




(a)

use an identity number other than the one issued to that person by the
commission, or




(b)

use the identity number issued to that person if




(i)

that person's enrolment is cancelled, or




(ii)

that person contravenes a restriction imposed under section 11
(2).






Sharing information if belief of contravention




12.1


If the commission has reason to believe that a person may have
contravened a provision of this Act, the

Laboratory Services Act

or the regulations or an order made under either Act, the commission
may do one or both of the following:




(a)

advise the minister of the commission's belief;




(b)

provide to the minister any relevant information, including personal
information.




Part 3 — Practitioners





Enrolment of practitioners




13

(1)


A medical practitioner or health care practitioner who wishes to be
enrolled as a practitioner must apply to the commission in the manner
required by the commission.




(2)

On receiving an application under subsection (1), the commission must
enrol the applicant if the commission is satisfied that the applicant
is in good standing with the appropriate licensing body and is not a
person in respect of whom enrolment has been cancelled under section
15 (2).




(3)

A practitioner who renders benefits to a beneficiary is, if this Act
and the regulations made under it are complied with, eligible to be
paid for the practitioner's services in accordance with the
appropriate payment schedule, less any applicable patient visit charge
or reduction made under section 24 (2).




(4)

Payments for benefits performed in an approved diagnostic facility
must be paid to the practitioner who was responsible for rendering the
benefit.




(5)

If a practitioner renders a benefit, payment may be made to a
corporation so long as the practitioner may lawfully conduct business
respecting that benefit through that corporation.




(6)

A practitioner is not entitled to be paid if that practitioner
provides a service contrary to any directions or prohibitions that
have been imposed on that practitioner




(a)

by the appropriate disciplinary body,




(b)

under this Act, or




(c)

by rules that regulate services provided by the practitioner.




(7)

A medical practitioner or health care practitioner who, on the date
this Act comes into force, holds a practitioner number granted under
the former Act is enrolled under subsection (1).




(8)

A practitioner who is enrolled under this section may cancel this
enrolment by giving 30 days' written notice of the cancellation
to the commission.




(9)

A medical practitioner whose enrolment is cancelled under subsection
(8) may not apply for enrolment under subsection (1) within 12 months
of the date of the cancellation unless the commission, because it
considers this to be in the public interest, allows the application.






Repealed




13.1


[Repealed 2002-16-9.]






Election




14

(1)


A practitioner may elect to be paid for benefits directly from a
beneficiary.




(2)

An election under subsection (1) may be made by giving written notice
to the commission in the manner required by the commission.




(3)

The election under subsection (1) takes effect




(a)

immediately on enrolment if the practitioner is not enrolled under
section 13 on receipt by the commission of the notice under
subsection (2), or




(b)

on a date specified by the commission between 30 and 45 days
after notice of the election is received by the commission, if the
practitioner is enrolled under section 13 on that date.




(4)

An election under subsection (1) may be revoked




(a)

before the date the election under subsection (1) takes effect, if the
commission and the practitioner agree to this, or




(b)

if the election under subsection (1) has taken effect, by the giving
notice of revocation in the same manner as giving notice under
subsection (2).




(5)

The revocation takes effect on a date to be specified by the
commission between 60 and 75 days after receipt by the commission
of the request for revocation.




(6)

If a practitioner revokes an election, the practitioner is not
entitled to be paid by the commission for benefits rendered during the
period referred to in subsection (5).




(7)

If an election is in effect and the practitioner has complied with
subsection (9),




(a)

the beneficiary must make a request for reimbursement directly to the
commission, and




(b)

the beneficiary is only entitled to be reimbursed for the lesser of




(i)

the amount that is provided in the appropriate payment schedule for
the benefit, less any applicable patient visit charge, and




(ii)

the amount that was charged by the practitioner.




(8)

If a practitioner makes an election under subsection (1), the
practitioner must not submit a claim on the
practitioner's own behalf under section 27 (1) for services
rendered to a beneficiary after the date the election becomes
effective.




(9)

As soon as practicable after rendering a benefit, a practitioner who
has made an election under subsection (1) must give the beneficiary a
claim form that is completed by the practitioner in the manner
required by the commission.






No referrals for laboratory services if no benefit rendered




14.1


Except with the prior written consent of the minister, a medical
practitioner or a prescribed health care practitioner must not
request, for the purposes of or in relation to a service that is not a
benefit under this Act, a laboratory service that is a benefit within
the meaning of either this Act or the

Laboratory Services Act

.






Order in respect of practitioner




15

(1)


In this section,
"cause"
, in respect of a practitioner, includes, but is not limited to,




(a)

a determination by the commission that, as a result of a finding by
the appropriate disciplinary body that a practitioner has inadequate
skills or knowledge or has been guilty of infamous conduct or repeated
instances of serious misconduct, the practitioner is no longer able to
provide proper care or treatment to beneficiaries,




(b)

a determination by the commission that, as a result of conduct giving
rise to a conviction of a criminal offence, the practitioner is no
longer able to provide proper care or treatment to beneficiaries,




(c)

the submission of a claim by the practitioner to the commission for
payment knowing that




(i)

the benefit had not been rendered, or




(ii)

the nature or extent of the benefit that was rendered had been
misrepresented,




(d)

a determination by the commission that the practitioner has




(i)

attempted to contravene section 14.1, 17, 18, 18.1, 19 or 35,




(ii)

contravened section 14.1, 17, 18, 18.1, 19 or 35, or




(iii)

authorized, assisted or allowed another person to contravene or
attempt to contravene section 14.1, 17, 18, 18.1, 19 or 35,




(d.1)

a determination by the commission that the practitioner has




(i)

attempted to contravene section 25 of the

Laboratory Services Act

,




(ii)

contravened section 25 of the

Laboratory Services Act

, or




(iii)

authorized, assisted or allowed another person to contravene or
attempt to contravene section 25 of the

Laboratory Services Act

,




(e)

failure to meet accreditation standards established by the licensing
body appropriate to the practitioner,




(f)

failure to comply with a written order made under section 37 (1) (e)
to adopt an appropriate pattern of practice or billing, or




(g)

refusal to reply in good faith to a communication from the commission.




(2)

The commission may, for cause, after giving the practitioner an
opportunity to be heard,




(a)

cancel a practitioner's enrolment and order that the practitioner not
apply under section 13 (1) for a period specified by the commission,




(a.1)

order that the practitioner, for a period fixed by the commission, be
paid for rendering benefits at a rate specified by the commission that
is less than the rate under the applicable payment schedule, or




(b)

order the practitioner, for a period fixed by the commission, to make
claims, including claims for services provided by a diagnostic
facility, as though an election had been made under section 14, and
section 14 (7) to (9) applies.




(3)

Before taking action under subsection (2), the commission must notify
the practitioner in writing




(a)

of the commission's intention to proceed under this section,




(b)

of the circumstances giving rise to the commission's intended action,




(c)

that the practitioner has the right to a hearing, to be requested by
the practitioner within 21 days from the date that the notice is
delivered, and to appear in person, with or without legal counsel, at
the hearing, and




(d)

that if the practitioner does not request a hearing or attend at the
hearing, an order may be made in the practitioner's absence.




(4)

If the commission makes an order under subsection (2), the commission
must notify the practitioner by written notice giving reasons for the
order.




(5)

If the commission has cancelled the enrolment of a practitioner under
subsection (2), a beneficiary is not entitled to have payment made by
the commission for any service rendered by that practitioner.






Referral of complaint




16


If the chair has reasonable grounds to believe that there
has been misconduct or incompetence on the part of a practitioner, the
chair must report the grounds on which that belief is based to the
appropriate disciplinary body.




Part 4 — Limits on Billing





Definitions




16.1


In this Part:



"another person"

or

"the other person"

means, if charged for or in relation to a service or benefit,




(a)

the recipient of the service,




(b)

the beneficiary, or




(c)

a person who is not described by paragraph (a) or (b);



"charge another person"

includes solicit, demand, require, receive, obtain, acquire, or accept
from the person being charged, in any form or manner,




(a)

a payment of money, goods or a service of any kind, or




(b)

valuable consideration, enrichment, profit, gain, promise or
advantage.






General limits on direct or extra billing




17

(1)


Except as specified in this Act or the regulations or by the
commission under this Act, a person must not charge another person




(a)

for or in relation to a benefit, or




(b)

for materials, consultations, procedures, use of an office, clinic or
other place or for any other matters that relate to the rendering of a
benefit.




(1.1)

The commission may determine that a person charges in relation to a
benefit for the purposes of subsection (1) (a) if the charge is for
anything done, provided, offered, made available, used, consumed or
rendered




(a)

at any time in relation to the rendering or refusal to render the
benefit, and




(b)

in circumstances that a reasonable person would consider would result
in




(i)

a refusal to render the benefit if the thing were not done, provided,
offered, made available, used, consumed or rendered, or




(ii)

the beneficiary being rendered the benefit in priority over other
persons or being given preferential treatment in the scheduling or
rendering of the benefit if the thing were done, provided, offered,
made available, used, consumed or rendered.




(1.2)

If a person charges or attempts to charge another person contrary to
subsection (1), another person is not liable to pay the amount
charged.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply:




(a)

if, at the time a service was rendered, the person receiving the
service was not enrolled as a beneficiary;




(b)

if, at the time the service was rendered, the service was not
considered by the commission to be a benefit;




(c)

if the service was rendered by a practitioner who




(i)

has made an election under section 14 (1), or




(ii)

is subject to an order under section 15 (2) (b);




(d)

if the service was rendered by a medical practitioner who is not
enrolled.






Limits on direct or extra billing by a medical practitioner




18

(1)


If a medical practitioner who is not enrolled renders a service to a
beneficiary and the service would be a benefit under this Act or the

Hospital Insurance Act

if rendered by an enrolled medical practitioner, a person must not
charge another person for, or in relation to, the service, or for
materials, consultations, procedures, use of an office, clinic or
other place or for any other matters that relate to the rendering of
the service, an amount that, in total, is greater than




(a)

the amount that would be payable under this Act, by the commission,
for the service if rendered by an enrolled medical practitioner,




(b)

if a payment schedule or regulation permits or requires an additional
charge by an enrolled medical practitioner, the total of the amount
referred to in paragraph (a) and the additional charge, or




(c)

the amount that would be payable under the

Hospital Insurance Act

, for the service if rendered by an enrolled medical practitioner.




(2)

Subsection (1) applies only to a service rendered in




(a)

a hospital as defined in section 1 of the

Hospital Act

,




(b)

a facility as defined in section 1 of the

Continuing Care Act

,




(c)

a community care facility or assisted living residence as defined in
section 1 of the

Community Care and Assisted Living Act

that receives funding for the service through a regional health board,
the Nisg̱a'a Nation or the Provincial Health Services Authority, or




(d)

a medical facility or diagnostic facility if




(i)

a regional health board as designated under section 4 of the

Health Authorities Act

, or




(ii)

the Provincial Health Services Authority


has contracted to have the service rendered.




(3)

If a medical practitioner described in section 17 (2) (c) renders a
benefit to a beneficiary, a person must not charge another person for,
or in relation to, the benefit, or for materials, consultations,
procedures, use of an office, clinic or other place or for any other
matters that relate to the rendering of the benefit, an amount that,
in total, is greater than




(a)

the amount that would be payable under this Act, by the commission,
for the benefit, or




(b)

if a payment schedule or regulation permits or requires an additional
charge, the total of the amount referred to in paragraph (a) and the
additional charge.




(4)

If a medical practitioner who is not enrolled charges another person
contrary to subsection (1) or (3), another person is not liable to pay
the amount charged.






Notice requirement




19

(1)


Before a beneficiary is rendered a service described in subsection
(1.1), the person who intends to charge another person for, or in
relation to, the service must advise the beneficiary, in a manner the
beneficiary can understand, of the following:




(a)

that the person intends to collect the amount from the other person;




(b)

how much the person who intends to charge will charge for, or in
relation to, the service;




(c)

how much, if anything, the person who intends to charge reasonably
expects that the commission will reimburse the other person for the
rendering of the service.




(1.1)

A service for the purposes of subsection (1) means a service that




(a)

would be a benefit if rendered by a practitioner, or




(b)

would be a benefit under this Act, or a benefit under the

Hospital Insurance Act

, if rendered by a practitioner to a beneficiary at




(i)

an approved diagnostic facility,




(ii)

a hospital, or




(iii)

a diagnostic facility under an agreement with a regional health board,
the Nisg̱a'a Nation or the Provincial Health Services Authority.




(2)

If a person intends to charge a person who is not the beneficiary for
a service in the circumstances described in subsection (1), the person
who is not the beneficiary must be advised as described in that
subsection in a manner that person can understand.




(3)

Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply if the medical condition or
incapacity of the persons to be advised makes compliance with those
subsections impracticable.




(4)

If a person is not advised as required by this section, the person is
not liable to pay for the service unless the service was rendered in
an emergency situation that made it impracticable to comply with the
requirement to advise.






Refunds




20

(1)


If a person pays for a service described in section 18, the person who
charged for, or in relation to, the service, or for materials,
consultations, procedures, use of an office, clinic or other place or
for any other matters that relate to the rendering of the service,
must refund to the person who was charged any amount paid that is in
excess of the amount allowed by section 18.




(2)

If a person pays for, or in relation to, a service, or for materials,
consultations, procedures, use of an office, clinic or other place or
for any other matters that relate to the rendering of the service, but
there was no liability to pay all or a portion of the amount paid
because of section 17 (1.2) [words not in force] or 19 (4), the person
who charged for, or in relation to, the service, or for materials,
consultations, procedures, use of an office, clinic or other place or
for any other matters that relate to the rendering of the service,
must refund the excess payment to the person who paid.




(3)

If, in respect of a particular service, there are 2 or more persons to
whom subsection (1) or (2) applies, the amount that is to be refunded
must be divided among all persons who paid, in proportion to each
person's share of the total amount paid.






Repealed




20.1


[Repealed 2003-95-7.]






Civil action




21

(1)


An amount that is to be refunded under this Part is a debt due to the
person who paid the amount, recoverable by action in any court of
competent jurisdiction.




(2)

The commission and a person who pays the amount referred to in
subsection (1) may agree that




(a)

the commission will pay the person all or part of that amount, and




(b)

in consideration for the payment under paragraph (a), the commission
is assigned the right of the person to recover all of the debt
referred to in subsection (1).




(3)

The commission may recover a debt assigned to it under subsection (2)
by




(a)

action in any court of competent jurisdiction, or




(b)

setting off the debt against monies owed, or that may become due and
owing, by the commission to the person who owes the debt referred to
in subsection (1).






Agreements




22


The minister, or a person designated by the minister for the purpose,
may enter into an agreement to pay an amount to offset all or part of
the cost for materials, consultations, use of an office, clinic or
other place or for any other matter that relates to the rendering of a
benefit.




Part 5 — Payments





Definitions for Part 5




23


In this Part:



"appropriation"

means an appropriation as defined in the

Financial Administration Act

for the operation of




(a)

the commission, or




(b)

the plan;



"available amount"

means, for a category, the available amount set under section 25 (1)
for that category for a fiscal year;


"category"
means a category established under section 26;



"fiscal year"

means, for an adjustment under this Part, the 12 month period
ending March 31 in any given year during which the benefits were
rendered for which the adjustment in payments is being calculated.






Limitations on payments




24

(1)


All reasonable and practical measures must be taken by the commission
to ensure that the total of payments made under sections 26
and 27 for a fiscal year is not greater than the appropriations
for the fiscal year for those payments and these measures may include
the establishment of public or professional educational programs, the
establishment or limitation of benefits, the establishment of
guidelines for the rendering of benefits or the making of adjustments
under subsection (2).




(2)

If the commission considers that payment for a fiscal year under all
payment schedules to practitioners in a category will be greater than
or less than the available amount for that category, the commission
may adjust its payments to the practitioners in the category under the
payment schedules to a level that the commission considers appropriate
to remain within the available amount for the fiscal year.




(3)

If the commission considers that the special circumstances of a
practitioner's patients warrant, the commission may order that a
reduction calculated under subsection (2) does not apply, or applies
to a limited extent, to payments to the practitioner.






Available amount




25

(1)


The commission may set the available amount for a category that may be
paid under all payment schedules to practitioners in the category for
rendering benefits under this Act in the fiscal year specified by the
commission.




(2)

The total amount that may be paid by the commission to all
practitioners in a category for rendering benefits under this Act in a
fiscal year must not be greater than the available amount for the
fiscal year.






Payment schedules and benefit plans




26

(1)


The commission




(a)

must establish payment schedules that specify the amounts that may be
paid to or on behalf of practitioners for rendering benefits under
this Act, less applicable patient visit charges, and




(b)

may establish different categories of practitioners for the purposes
of those payment schedules.




(2)

The payment schedules may




(a)

be different for different categories of practitioners,




(b)

treat professional and other aspects of services differently for the
purposes of payments under this Part,




(c)

include, for specified benefits, extra payments that may be made in
special circumstances that the commission establishes, or




(d)

in respect of a particular benefit or class of benefits, be different
for different geographical areas of British Columbia, as specified by
the commission.




(3)

The commission may, at any time, amend the payment schedules




(a)

in any manner that the commission considers necessary or advisable,
and




(b)

without limiting paragraph (a), by increasing or decreasing any amount
in a payment schedule.




(4)

An amendment referred to in subsection (3) (b) may apply




(a)

to a specified geographical area,




(b)

to a category of practitioners,




(c)

to a category of practitioners within a specified geographical area,
or




(d)

to a specified benefit or class of benefits within a specified
geographical area.




(5)

The commission may act retroactively under this section to




(a)

include or increase payment for a benefit in a payment schedule, or




(b)

determine that a service is a benefit and establish a payment schedule
item for this benefit.




(6)

The commission may continue or establish a practitioner educational
program, a disability insurance program or other practitioner benefit
plan for practitioners and the plans may be different for different
categories of practitioners.




(7)

The commission may, out of an appropriation for that purpose, pay
money to fund practitioner benefit plans.




(8)

No category may be established under this section on the basis of age
or gender of practitioners.






Submission, assessment and payment of claims




27

(1)


A practitioner who renders a benefit to a beneficiary must, for the
purpose of assessing or reassessing the claim for payment, provide
particulars of services and accounts to the commission that are
required under this Act in the manner the commission specifies.




(2)

The commission must assess and, if appropriate, reassess the
particulars of claims for payment and determine the amounts payable
for them in accordance with this Act, the regulations and the
appropriate payment schedule.




(3)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may prescribe the period of time
within which




(a)

a claim for payment must be submitted to the commission,




(b)

a practitioner or beneficiary may request reassessment of a previously
submitted claim, or




(c)

the commission can assess or reassess a claim.




(4)

The commission must, to the extent authorized by the appropriation,
pay for claims for benefits that the commission has assessed or
reassessed and that comply with this Act, the regulations and the
appropriate payment schedule.




(5)

The commission is not liable for payment if a claim is submitted
outside the period prescribed under subsection (3) but, in its
discretion, may pay the claim.




(6)

For the purposes of this section




(a)

a practitioner must provide the commission with any record that the
commission considers relevant to substantiate a claim, including any
medical or clinical record, in the care or control of the
practitioner, and




(b)

a practitioner must retain records, including medical or clinical
records, for a period specified by the appropriate licensing body or,
if the appropriate licensing body has not specified a period, for a
period the commission specifies.






Non-resident benefits




28


A person who is not a resident of British Columbia and who provides
evidence to a practitioner that the person is enrolled under
an Act, plan or scheme in another jurisdiction of Canada with which
British Columbia has made reciprocal agreements related to the
provision of medical or health care services is, subject to the
agreements, entitled to receive benefits under this Act, and this Act
applies in respect of those benefits as though the person were a
beneficiary under this Act.






Payment for services outside British Columbia




29

(1)


In this section,
"medical practitioner"
includes a medical practitioner or dentist who is authorized to
practise medicine or dentistry in the jurisdiction where the services
were rendered.




(2)

If a beneficiary receives a service from a medical practitioner
outside British Columbia that would be a benefit if rendered in
British Columbia, the beneficiary may apply to the commission, in the
manner required by the commission, to have payment made for the
service in the amount the commission determines.




(3)

If a beneficiary receives a service outside British Columbia from a
medical practitioner that would not be a benefit if rendered in
British Columbia, the beneficiary may apply to the commission to
determine if the cost of this service should be paid and, if so, the
amount to be paid for the service.




(4)

A beneficiary is entitled to have payments made under subsection (2)
or (3) if the commission considers the service was medically required
and




(a)

the need for the service arose unexpectedly while the beneficiary was
outside British Columbia, or




(b)

the regulations respecting out of British Columbia services have been
complied with.




(5)

If the government has made, with the government of another
jurisdiction of Canada, an agreement that provides for arrangements to
pay for medically required services rendered in that other
jurisdiction, the agreement applies.






Recovery of money




30

(1)


If the commission has paid an amount under this Act




(a)

for a service that was not a benefit or that was provided in
contravention of section 14.1, or




(b)

by mistake,


the person paid must repay the amount to the commission.




(1.1)

If the commission has paid an amount under this Act for a benefit
provided to a person who was not a beneficiary, the person who
received the benefit must repay the amount to the commission.




(2)

If the commission has paid an amount after relying on a representation
of fact that was untrue, the person who made the misrepresentation
must repay the amount to the commission.




(3)

An amount that must be paid to the commission under this section or
section 37 may be recovered as a debt owing to the commission, or
the commission may deduct it from other money owed by the commission
to the person.






Critical care services




31

(1)


Despite any other section of this Act or the regulations, the
commission may pay a practitioner for benefits rendered to a resident
for a condition that the commission considers to be immediately life
threatening.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply if the practitioner charges the resident
any fee for the service other than an authorized patient visit charge.






Repealed




32


[Repealed 2019-8-2.]




Part 6 — Diagnostic Facilities





Approval of diagnostic facility




33

(1)


On application, in the manner required by the commission, the
commission may, in accordance with the regulations,




(a)

approve a diagnostic facility for purposes of permitting benefits to
be performed in it,




(b)

grant a temporary approval for a diagnostic facility for those
purposes and for the period the commission specifies, and




(c)

impose conditions on an approval or a temporary approval for a
particular diagnostic facility or class of diagnostic facilities,
including conditions restricting the types of benefits for which
payment will be made.




(2)

On application under subsection (1) or on its own initiative, the
commission may, in accordance with the regulations, attach new
conditions or amend existing conditions to an approval or temporary
approval previously given under subsection (1).




(3)

If an approval is given under this section, the commission must give
the approval in the name of the owner of the diagnostic facility.




(4)

If, in respect of an approved diagnostic facility, there is a
contravention of this Act, the regulations made under it or a
condition imposed on an approval under this section, the commission
may, after giving the owner of the diagnostic facility an opportunity
to be heard, amend, suspend or cancel an approval granted under this
section and section 30 applies to the amount, if any, that was
paid by the commission for services on the basis of the approval
applying.




(5)

Before taking action under subsection (2) or (4), the commission must
notify in writing the person in whose name the approval was granted,




(a)

of the commission's intention to proceed under this section,




(b)

of the circumstances giving rise to the commission's intended action,




(c)

that the owner of the diagnostic facility has the right to a hearing,
to be requested by the owner of the diagnostic facility within
21 days from the date that the notice is received, and to appear
in person, with or without legal counsel, at the hearing, and




(d)

that if the owner of the diagnostic facility does not request a
hearing or attend at the hearing, an order may be made in the
owner's absence.




(6)

If the commission takes action under subsection (2) or (4), the
commission must give the owner of the diagnostic facility written
notice stating the action taken and the reasons why this action was
taken.




(7)

Except if the commission gives leave, a person who applied under
subsection (1) in respect of a location may not apply again under
subsection (1) in respect of that location until 18 months from the
date of that application.




(8)

An owner of a diagnostic facility who on July 24, 1992 has
an approval under the former Act to operate the diagnostic facility
also has an approval under this section to operate the diagnostic
facility.






Obligation of practitioner




34

(1)


A practitioner must not knowingly refer a beneficiary to a diagnostic
facility that is not approved under this Part unless the
practitioner first notifies the beneficiary that services
performed in the diagnostic facility are not benefits in respect of
which payment will be made under this Act.




(2)

If a beneficiary is referred by a practitioner to a diagnostic
facility that is not approved under this Part, the beneficiary is not
liable for payment of services performed in the diagnostic facility
unless, before the services are provided, the
beneficiary agrees to pay for them.




(3)

Subsections (1) and (2) only apply if the service to be provided to
the beneficiary would be a benefit if it were rendered by an approved
diagnostic facility.






Conflict of interest




35

(1)


A practitioner must not refer beneficiaries to an approved diagnostic
facility in which the practitioner has a financial or other
interest, without the prior written approval of the commission.




(2)

An approval under subsection (1) permits referrals for the period
specified in the approval.




Part 7 — Audit and Inspection





Audit and inspection — practitioners and employers




36

(1)


In this Part:



"former practitioner"

means an individual who was formerly enrolled under section 13 or
under the former Act;



"practitioner"

includes




(a)

a former practitioner, and




(b)

a medical practitioner who is not enrolled and to whom section 18 (1)
applies;



"prescribed agency"

means a corporation or other body that is prescribed for the purposes
of this Part.




(2)

The commission may appoint inspectors to audit




(a)

claims for payment by practitioners and the patterns of practice or
billing followed by practitioners under this Act,




(b)

the billing or business practices of persons who own, manage, control
or carry on a business for profit or gain and, in the course of the
business, direct, authorize, cause, allow, assent to, assist in,
acquiesce in or participate in the rendering of a benefit to
beneficiaries by practitioners, and




(c)

the billing or business practices of persons who own, manage, control
or carry on a business for profit or gain and who the commission on
reasonable grounds believes




(i)

in the course of the business, direct, authorize, cause, allow, assent
to, assist in, acquiesce in or participate in the rendering of a
benefit to beneficiaries by practitioners, or




(ii)

have contravened section 17, 18, 18.1 or 19.




(2.1)

If the commission, on behalf of a prescribed agency, pays a
practitioner, an owner of a diagnostic facility or a representative of
a professional corporation for services rendered, or claimed to have
been rendered, this Part applies to the services as though these
services were benefits.




(2.2)

The claims and patterns of practice or billing concerning a prescribed
agency




(a)

need not be under this Act, and




(b)

can have arisen at any time since July 24, 1992.




(3)

Medical records may be requested or inspected under this section or
section 40 only by an inspector who




(a)

is a medical practitioner, or




(b)

was formerly a medical practitioner, if the commission has, at the
time of appointing the person as an inspector, stated in writing that
the person may inspect medical records under this section or section
40, or both.




(4)

An audit under subsection (2) (a) may be made in respect of claims and
patterns of practice or billing followed by practitioners before this
Act came into force.




(4.1)

An audit under subsection (2) (b) or (c) may be made in respect of
billing or business practices followed by persons before the coming
into force of this subsection.




(5)

An inspector may, at any reasonable time and for reasonable purposes
of the audit, enter any premises and inspect




(a)

records of a person described in subsection (2) (b) or (c) or of a
practitioner, and




(b)

records maintained in hospitals, health facilities and diagnostic
facilities.




(6)

The power to enter a place under subsection (5) must not be used to
enter a private dwelling without the consent of the occupier except
under the authority of a warrant under subsection (7).




(7)

On being satisfied on evidence on oath or affirmation that there are
in a place records or other things for which there are reasonable
grounds to believe that they are relevant to the matters referred to
in subsection (5), a justice may issue a warrant authorizing an
inspector named in the warrant to enter the place in accordance with
the warrant in order to exercise the powers referred to in subsection
(5).




(8)

A person must, on the request of an inspector,




(a)

produce and permit inspection of the records referred to in subsection
(5),




(b)

supply copies of or extracts from the records at the expense of the
commission, and




(c)

answer all questions of the inspector respecting any matter relating
to the records, or to the audit generally.




(9)

If required by the inspector, a person must provide to the inspector
all books of account and other records that the inspector considers
necessary for the purposes of the audit.




(10)

A person must not hinder, molest or interfere with an inspector doing
anything that the inspector is authorized to do under this section or
prevent or attempt to prevent the inspector doing any such thing.




(11)

An inspector must make a report to the chair of the results of an
audit made under subsection (2).




(12)

[Repealed 2019-8-2.]






Orders of the commission




37

(1)


If the commission, after giving a practitioner, an owner of a
diagnostic facility or a representative of a professional corporation
an opportunity to be heard, determines that, because of




(a)

an unjustifiable departure from the patterns of practice or billing of
practitioners in the practitioner's category,




(b)

a claim for payment in respect of a benefit that was not rendered, or




(c)

a misrepresentation about the nature or extent of benefits rendered,


the commission has paid an amount to the practitioner or any other
person, or both, the commission may, by written order,




(d)

require the practitioner, owner of the diagnostic facility or
representative of the professional corporation to pay to the
commission money that the commission considers appropriate as arising
out of the departure, claim or misrepresentation referred to in
paragraphs (a) to (c), and




(e)

require the practitioner, owner of the diagnostic facility or
representative of the professional corporation to adopt an appropriate
pattern of practice or billing, as specified by the commission in the
order.




(1.1)

If a practitioner, an owner of a diagnostic facility or a
representative of a professional corporation is ordered under
subsection (1) (d) to pay money to the commission, they must also pay
a prescribed surcharge.




(1.2)

In subsection (1.3),
"audit period"
means, for a person, the period during which an audit takes place,
giving rise to an order under subsection (1) (d) respecting the
person.




(1.3)

A person who must pay a prescribed surcharge under subsection (1.1)
must also pay interest from the last day of the audit period,
compounded semi-annually, on the sum of




(a)

the amount ordered under subsection (1) (d),




(b)

the surcharge under subsection (1.1) on the amount ordered under
subsection (1) (d), and




(c)

the compound interest accrued to date under this subsection.




(1.4)

Interest under subsection (1.3) is payable at an annual rate equal to
the prime lending rate of the banker to the government.




(1.5)

Interest payable under subsection (1.3) for any of the first 6 months
of a calendar year must be calculated at the annual rate applicable on
January 1 in the calendar year.




(1.6)

Interest payable under subsection (1.3) for any of the last 6 months
of a calendar year must be calculated at the annual rate applicable on
July 1 in the calendar year.




(2)

Before taking action under subsection (1), the commission must notify
in writing the practitioner, owner of a diagnostic facility or
representative of a professional corporation




(a)

of the commission's intention to proceed under this section,




(b)

of the circumstances giving rise to the commission's intended action,




(c)

that the practitioner, owner of a diagnostic facility or
representative of a professional corporation has the right to a
hearing, to be requested by the practitioner, owner of a diagnostic
facility or representative of a professional corporation within 21
days from the date that the notice is delivered, and to appear in
person, with or without legal counsel, at the hearing, and




(d)

that, if the practitioner does not request a hearing or attend at the
hearing, an order may be made in the practitioner's absence.




(3)

Despite subsections (1) and (2), the commission may proceed to make an
order under subsection (1) without holding a hearing if the
practitioner, owner of the diagnostic facility or representative of
the professional corporation, having been given notice of the
proceeding for the order, agrees to waive the right to a hearing.




(4)

The commission must advise the appropriate licensing or disciplinary
body that an order under subsection (1) has been made respecting the
practitioner or the owner of the diagnostic facility, if the owner is
a practitioner.




(5)

The commission may, for the purposes of this section and for the
guidance of practitioners, prepare guidelines and criteria that may be
applied to the patterns of practice of practitioners.




(6)

In making an order under subsection (1), the commission may consider,
and base the order on, any relevant source of information, including a
source created on a statistical basis or by a comparison between
benefits provided by the practitioner or diagnostic facility and
corresponding benefits provided by other practitioners or diagnostic
facilities, but it is not necessary for the commission to consider any
particular benefit that the practitioner or owner of the diagnostic
facility provided.




(7)

The chair must give a copy of any order made under subsection (1) to
the practitioner or owner of the diagnostic facility affected by it.




(8)

An order under subsection (1) may include a requirement to pay the
costs, or part of the costs, of the audit and hearing.






Settlement of claims ascertained under section 37




38


If the commission believes it to be in the public interest to accept
less than 100% payment in settlement of money required to be paid by a
practitioner, owner of the diagnostic facility or representative of
the professional corporation under section 37, the commission may
accept the greater of




(a)

the percentage of the money required to be paid under section 37
that the commission considers appropriate in settlement, and




(b)

the percentage of the money required to be paid under section 37
that Treasury Board sets for the purposes of settlement under this
section, if Treasury Board sets this percentage.






Filing of order




39

(1)


The chair may file an order made under section 37 in the Supreme
Court.




(2)

On the order being filed in the court, it is enforceable in the same
manner as an order of the Supreme Court.






Audit and inspection — diagnostic facilities




40

(1)


An inspector appointed under section 36 (2) may inspect records,
equipment and premises in a diagnostic facility for the purpose of
ensuring that this Act, the regulations and any conditions of approval
under section 33 are being complied with.




(2)

An inspector may enter the premises of the approved diagnostic
facility during the normal business hours of that diagnostic facility,
and may inspect and examine




(a)

those premises,




(b)

records located on those premises that are relevant to the rendering
of approved diagnostic facility services or to the submission of
claims and the payment of appropriate amounts for benefits rendered by
the diagnostic facility, including specimen collection stations,




(c)

records that would aid the commission in determining whether a hearing
under section 33 is warranted, which




(i)

relate to the conditions of the approval of the diagnostic facility or
the quality of services provided by the diagnostic facility, or




(ii)

indicate whether the diagnostic facility or any person is not in
compliance with protocols established by the commission for the
purposes of this Act, and




(d)

records and equipment located on those premises that will aid the
commission in determining whether, in respect of the diagnostic
facility,




(i)

the standards of testing and analysis,




(ii)

the qualifications, number and skills of personnel who work there, and




(iii)

the range and availability of services and equipment


are appropriate to the operation and functions performed by the
diagnostic facility under the approval or whether there has been a
significant change in the circumstances from those that applied when
the diagnostic facility was approved under section 33.




(3)

A person who operates a diagnostic facility approved under this Act
must, on the request of an inspector, permit the inspector to enter
the diagnostic facility's premises to inspect, in accordance with
subsection (1), the diagnostic facility's premises and the records and
equipment located on those premises.




(4)

If records referred to in subsection (1) are not located on the
premises of an approved diagnostic facility, a person who has
possession of those records must, on the request of the inspector,
produce and permit inspection of those records by the inspector.




Part 8 — Appeals





Repealed




41-42


[Repealed 2003-96-47.]






Appeals — practitioners and diagnostic facilities




43

(1)


A practitioner, an owner of a diagnostic facility or a representative
of a professional corporation in respect of whom an order was made
under section 15 (2) or 37 (1) may appeal the order to the Supreme
Court not more than 30 days after the date of the order or
cancellation.




(2)

An appeal from a decision of the Supreme Court on appeal under
subsection (1) lies to the Court of Appeal with leave of a justice of
the Court of Appeal.




(3)

An appeal under this section does not operate to stay the order
appealed from unless the court to which the appeal is made otherwise
orders.






Repealed




44


[Repealed 2003-96-47.]




Part 9 — General Provisions





Private insurers




45

(1)


A person must not provide, offer or enter into a contract of insurance
with a resident for the payment, reimbursement or indemnification of
all or part of the cost of services that would be benefits if
performed by a practitioner.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply to




(a)

all or part of the cost of a service




(i)

for which a beneficiary cannot be reimbursed under the plan, and




(ii)

that is rendered by a health care practitioner who has made an
election under section 14 (1),




(b)

insurance obtained to cover health care costs outside of Canada, or




(c)

insurance obtained by a person who is not eligible to be a
beneficiary.




(3)

A contract that is prohibited under subsection (1) is void.






Injunctions




45.1

(1)


The commission may apply to the Supreme Court for an injunction
restraining a person from contravening section 17 (1), 18 (1) or (3),
18.1 (1) or (2) or 19 (1) or (2).




(2)

The court may grant an injunction sought under subsection (1) if the
court is satisfied that there is reason to believe that there has been
or will be a contravention of this Act or the regulations.




(3)

The court may grant an interim injunction until the outcome of an
action commenced under subsection (1).






Offences




46

(1)


A beneficiary or practitioner who misrepresents the nature or extent
of the benefit in a claim for payment commits an offence.




(2)

A person who knowingly obtains or attempts to obtain payment for a
benefit to which the person is not entitled commits an
offence.




(3)

[Repealed 2019-8-2.]




(4)

A person who obstructs an inspector in the lawful performance
of the inspector's duties under this Act commits an offence.




(5)

A person who contravenes section 12 or 49 commits an offence.




(5.1)

A person who contravenes section 17 (1), 18 (1) or (3) [words not in
force] or 19 (1) commits an offence.




(5.2)

A person who is convicted of an offence under subsection (5.1) is
liable to a fine of not more than $10 000, and for a second or
subsequent offence to a fine of not more than $20 000.




(6)

A person who knowingly assists another person to commit an offence
under this section commits an offence.






Offence Act




47


Section 5 of the

Offence Act

does not apply to this Act or the regulations.






Duty to report




47.1


A person prescribed for the purposes of this section must promptly
report to the commission, in the manner required by the commission, if
the prescribed person has reason to believe that another person




(a)

has provided to the commission false or misleading information about
the other person's identity, residency or children,




(b)

has obtained, or has attempted to obtain, benefits or a payment under
section 9, 10 or 29 to which the other person is not
entitled, or




(c)

has contravened section 12.






Protection against action




48

(1)


No action for damages because of anything done or omitted to be done
in good faith under this Act,




(a)

in the performance or intended performance of any duty, or




(b)

in the exercise or intended exercise of any power,


may be brought against a member of the commission, a member of a
special committee, an inspector appointed under Part 7, a member of an
advisory committee or any employee or other person who is subject to
the commission's direction or to whom a power has been delegated under
this Act.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not absolve the government from vicarious
liability for an act or omission of an inspector or an employee
referred to in subsection (1) for which act or omission the government
would be vicariously liable if this section were not in force.




(3)

If a practitioner provides information in good faith in the manner and
as required under this Act, no action for damages may be brought
against the practitioner based solely on the fact that the information
was provided.




(4)

If a person makes a report in good faith, in the manner and as
required under this Act, no action for damages may be brought against
the person based solely on the fact that the report was made.






Duty to keep information confidential




49

(1)


In this section,

"person engaged in the administration of this Act"

includes the following persons:




(a)

each member or former member of the commission;




(b)

each former member of the Medical and Health Care Services Appeal
Board;




(c)

each employee or former employee of the ministry employed in the
administration of this Act;




(d)

each inspector or former inspector appointed under this Act;




(e)

each member or former member of an advisory committee;




(f)

any person engaged or previously engaged in the administration of this
Act.




(2)

A person engaged in the administration of this Act must keep
confidential matters respecting an individual beneficiary or
practitioner that come to the person's knowledge in the
course of the person's employment or duties, and must not
communicate any of those matters except as follows:




(a)

in the course of the administration of this Act or another Act or
program administered by the minister;




(b)

to communicate prescribed information to a person who




(i)

is a beneficiary and is, or whose personal information is, identified
in a hearing under section 15 or 37,




(ii)

provides information to the commission that leads to an audit or
inspection under section 36 of this Act or section 11 (1) (d) of the
Medicare Protection Amendment Act, 2019
, or to a determination that no audit or inspection is required under
that section, or




(iii)

provides information to the commission that leads to an application
for an injunction under section 45.1, or to a determination that no
injunction is required under that section;




(c)

to communicate prescribed information to one or more persons if a
person is the subject of




(i)

a notice of hearing under section 15 or 37,




(ii)

an audit or inspection under section 36 of this Act or section 11 (1)
(d) of the
Medicare Protection Amendment Act, 2019
, or




(iii)

an application for an injunction under section 45.1, and


if, in the opinion of the minister or the chair, there is a compelling
public interest in the disclosure of that information;




(c.1)

to communicate information to the minister for the purposes of section
61 of the

Laboratory Services Act

if a person is the subject of




(i)

a notice of hearing under section 15 or 37 of this Act, or




(ii)

an application for an injunction under section 45.1 of this Act;




(d)

for a purpose listed in section 5 or 18 of the


E-Health (Personal Health Information Access and Protection of
Privacy) Act


.






Delivery of documents




50

(1)


Unless otherwise provided under this Act, a document or notice
required to be given to a person under this Act must be given by
delivering it to that person or to the last known address of that
person.




(2)

If a document is deposited at the office of the commission during
normal business hours, the document is deemed to have been personally
delivered to the commission.






Laboratory facilities




50.1


Except as provided for under the

Laboratory Services Act

, nothing in this Act authorizes the commission to act in relation to
a grandparented laboratory facility within the meaning of that Act.






Power to make regulations




51

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
section 41 of the

Interpretation Act

.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations for the following purposes:




(a)

specifying the services rendered by an enrolled health care
practitioner that are benefits under this Act;




(b)

prescribing additional benefits and services for different categories
of beneficiaries;




(b.1)

prescribing for hearings under section 15 or under section 37




(i)

the practices and procedures for the conduct of negotiations or a
pre-hearing conference for possible settlement before a hearing is
commenced,




(ii)

the practices and procedures to be used for a pre-hearing conference
or a hearing,




(iii)

the means by which particular facts may be proved or the mode in which
evidence may be given at a pre-hearing conference or a hearing,




(iv)

the time limits for the exchange of documents, reports and affidavits
in preparation for a pre-hearing conference or a hearing, or




(v)

the requirements for the attendance of witnesses, the conduct of
witnesses or the compelling of witnesses to give evidence under oath
or in some other manner;




(c)

imposing monetary limits on benefits rendered by an enrolled health
care practitioner available to different categories of beneficiaries;




(c.01)

for the purposes of section 7,




(i)

respecting applications for, or renewal of, enrolment as a
beneficiary,




(ii)

respecting records and other information that must be provided to
prove identity and residency,




(iii)

making different requirements in relation to applications for, or
renewal of, enrolment as a beneficiary,




(iv)

making different requirements for the purposes of investigations,




(v)

respecting alternative means of establishing identity and residency,




(vi)

establishing classes of beneficiaries and making different provisions
for different classes,




(vii)

exempting classes of beneficiaries from one or more requirements under
section 7 (2) or (5) (b), and




(viii)

prescribing periods and times for the purposes of section 7 (2);




(c.02)

respecting the issuing of cards or other records for the purposes of
identifying beneficiaries, and the use, return, replacement or
destruction of such cards or records;




(c.1)

prescribing the period for the purposes of section 7.2 (4);




(c.2) to (d)

[Repealed 2019-8-2.]




(e)

establishing systems for submitting claims for payment of benefits;




(e.1)

respecting verification of the identity and enrolment of a person
requesting benefits;




(f)

respecting the approval of diagnostic facilities under Part 6,
including the establishment of criteria and conditions for approval of
diagnostic facilities and including, but not limited to, the
establishment of different criteria and conditions




(i)

for different categories of diagnostic facilities,




(ii)

for different geographic locations of diagnostic facilities,




(iii)

for ownership of diagnostic facilities,




(iv)

according to proximity to other approved diagnostic facilities, and




(v)

according to need for diagnostic facility services;




(g)

establishing terms and conditions relating to the functions and
operations of specific approved diagnostic facilities and categories
of approved diagnostic facilities and authorizing the commission to
establish those terms and conditions;




(h)

respecting applications for approval of diagnostic facilities and the
information required to be disclosed;




(h.1)

prescribing bodies for the purposes of the definition of prescribed
agencies in Part 7;




(h.2)

prescribing a surcharge or a method of calculating a surcharge for the
purposes of section 37 (1.1);




(i)

respecting the provision of dental care services and benefits to
beneficiaries or any designated categories of beneficiaries, including
specifying those provisions of this Act and the regulations respecting
the plan which apply or do not apply to the provision of dental care
services and benefits;




(j)

respecting rights of subrogation in favour of the commission;




(k)

providing for transition arising from repeal of the former Act and the
Medical Service Plan Act, 1981
;




(l)

providing for sampling and confirmation of claims submitted for
payment under this Act;




(m)

setting standards and conditions for the purposes of services provided
outside British Columbia;




(n)

establishing fees for applications or renewals under this Act and
establishing different fees for different applications;




(o)

respecting terms and conditions that are to be included in
information-sharing agreements under section 5 (5) and prescribing
enactments for the purposes of section 5 (6);




(p)

respecting any other matter for which regulations are required under
this Act;




(q)

permitting a health care practitioner to request that a beneficiary
pay a patient visit charge to cover all or part of the cost of a
visit;




(r)

prescribing persons who must make a report under section 47.1;




(s)

for the purposes of paragraph (c) (ii) of the definition of "resident"
in section 1,




(i)

prescribing periods,




(ii)

establishing limits and conditions that must be met for a shorter
period to apply, and




(iii)

conferring on the commission a discretion to grant approvals and to
waive or modify limits and conditions established under subparagraph
(ii) of this paragraph.




(3)

A regulation made under subsection (2) (c.01) in respect of proof of
identity may do one or more of the following:




(a)

establish requirements;




(b)

incorporate by reference, and as amended from time to time,
requirements established under another enactment;




(c)

modify requirements incorporated by reference under paragraph (b);




(d)

provide that proof of identity under another enactment or for the
purposes of a specified program or activity of a public body, within
the meaning of the

Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act

, is sufficient proof of identity for the purposes of this Act.




