




Name Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 328






Definitions




1


In this Act:


"change"
includes a change by way of alteration, substitution, addition or
abandonment;


"given name"
means a name other than a surname;


"name"
means given name or surname, or both;


"parent"
means a parent under Part 3 of the

Family Law Act

;



"registrar general"

has the same meaning as in the

Vital Statistics Act

;


"surname"
has the same meaning as in the

Vital Statistics Act

;



"vital statistics registrar"

means a vital statistics registrar under the

Vital Statistics Act

.






No change of name except under Act




2

(1)


A person in British Columbia must not change the person's name unless
authorized to do so by section 4, and then only in the manner
provided by this Act.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply to any of the following:




(a)

a change in the surname of one spouse to the surname of the other
spouse;




(b)

a change in name resulting from adoption under the

Adoption Act

;




(c)

a change of name appearing on a certificate of naturalization;




(d)

a change in name under the

Vital Statistics Act

;




(e)

a change of name under section 5.






Use of surnames on marriage




3


A person who is a spouse by marriage may




(a)

use the surname the person had immediately before the marriage,




(b)

use the surname the person had at birth or by adoption, or




(c)

use the surname of the person's spouse by marriage.






Persons entitled to change names




4

(1)


Subject to this section, a person who has attained the age of majority
or, if the age of majority has not been attained, is a parent having
guardianship or custody of the person's child and who is domiciled in
British Columbia for at least 3 months, or has resided in British
Columbia for at least 3 months immediately before the date of the
application, may, unless prohibited by this or another Act, change the
person's name on complying with this Act.




(2)

If the minister is satisfied that it is in the public interest to do
so, the minister may waive the residency requirements of subsection
(1).




(3)

Subject to subsection (4), a parent having guardianship or custody of
an unmarried minor child may, with the consent of all other parents
having guardianship and other guardians of the child, apply to change
the child's name, but, if the application is to change the child's
surname to that of the applicant's spouse, the consent of the spouse
is required.




(4)

If a person applies to change the name of an unmarried minor child who
has attained the age of 12 years, the person must first obtain
the consent in writing of the child.




(5)

If a person whose consent is required under this Act




(a)

is deceased or mentally disordered or cannot after reasonable,
diligent and adequate search be located, or




(b)

is, in the opinion of the registrar general, unreasonably withholding
the person's consent,


the applicant may, with the approval of the registrar general, proceed
with the application without the consent of that person.




(6)

If, in the opinion of the registrar general, exceptional circumstances
make it unreasonable to seek the consent of a person as required under
this Act, the applicant may, with the approval of the registrar
general, proceed with the application without the consent of that
person.






Change of name on dissolution or nullity of marriage




5

(1)


If




(a)

a court in Canada has




(i)

granted a decree absolute for dissolution of a marriage, or




(ii)

made an order for nullity of a marriage, or




(b)

a judge or officer of a court in Canada has issued a certificate
stating that a divorce granted under the

Divorce Act

(Canada) has dissolved a marriage,


the Supreme Court may, at any time, on the application of a former
spouse, order that the former spouse's name be changed to the name the
former spouse desires.




(2)

If an applicant under subsection (1) has minor children of the
marriage of whom the applicant has guardianship or custody, the
applicant may also apply to the Supreme Court to change the name of
those children, but the Supreme Court, before making an order under
subsection (1) in respect of those children, must require the written
consent of all other parents.




(3)

If the Supreme Court renders a judgment granting a divorce, it may, at
the same time and whether or not claimed in the petition for divorce
or by motion in the divorce proceeding, order that the name of a
spouse be changed to the name the spouse desires, to become effective
on the same day as the judgment granting the divorce.




(4)

If an application under this section is granted, the order must state
the name to which the name of the spouse or children is changed.




(5)

The district registrar of the court must transmit a copy of the order
to the registrar general, who must register the change of name
accordingly.






Repealed




6


[Repealed 2002-12-25.]






Criminal record check




6.1

(1)


A person entitled to change the person's name or the name of the
person's minor child under section 4 must, within the 30 day
period before the person files an application under section 7,
start a process, satisfactory to the registrar general, for a criminal
record check of the person whose name is to be changed.




(2)

Subsection (1) applies to a minor child only if the child is at least
18 years of age.






Documents to be filed with registrar general




7

(1)


An applicant for a change of name must pay the prescribed fees to the
registrar general and must file with the registrar general an
application containing all of the following:




(a)

a statement of all relevant facts;




(b)

an affidavit verifying the application;




(c)

the consent of every person whose consent is necessary under this Act;




(d)

[Repealed 2002-12-26.]




(e)

further documentary evidence or information required by the registrar
general;




(f)

the name and address of every person whose name will be changed
because of a change of name of the applicant.




(1.1)

In addition to the requirements set out in subsection (1), an
applicant for a change of the applicant's name must file with the
registrar general a form that authorizes the registrar general to
provide the Royal Canadian Mounted Police with




(a)

the applicant's name and change of name to be registered under this
Act,




(b)

the applicant's fingerprints,




(c)

the applicant's date of birth, and




(d)

other personal information of the applicant that is necessary for a
criminal record check to be conducted.




(1.2)

In addition to the requirements set out in subsection (1), an
applicant for a change of name of the applicant's minor child who is
at least 18 years of age must file with the registrar general a form
that authorizes the registrar general to provide the Royal Canadian
Mounted Police with




(a)

the child's name and change of name to be registered under this Act,




(b)

the child's fingerprints,




(c)

the child's date of birth, and




(d)

other personal information of the child that is necessary for a
criminal record check to be conducted.




(1.3)

Despite subsection (2) but subject to the regulations, the registrar
general must disclose to the Royal Canadian Mounted Police information
related to an applicant or the applicant's child that is described in
subsection (1.1) or (1.2), as the case may be, on the change
of the applicant's or child's name being registered under
section 9.




(2)

The registrar general must preserve in the registrar general's office
all documents filed with the registrar general, and except as provided
in section 13, neither the documents themselves or information
contained in the documents may be made available to any person, except
the following:




(a)

an officer of the government;




(b)

a person authorized by the minister in writing;




(c)

a person who has obtained from the Supreme Court an order permitting
inspection.




(3)

An order under subsection (2) (c) must not be made except on an
application showing good cause, of which 5 days' notice has been
served on the registrar general.






Power to take affidavits




8


The registrar general, an inspector of vital statistics or a vital
statistics registrar has the powers of a commissioner for taking
affidavits for British Columbia for the purposes of this Act.






Change of name registered or refused




9

(1)


On receipt of an application and of the documents required to be filed
with it, the registrar general must, if the registrar general is
satisfied that the proposed change is authorized by this Act, register
the change of name.




(2)

If the registrar general is not satisfied that the proposed change is
authorized by this Act the registrar general must refuse to register
the change of name and must notify the applicant.




(3)

The registrar general must not register a change of name that would
result in the applicant having only one name.




(4)

The registrar general must refuse an application if the registrar
general is of the opinion




(a)

that the name that the applicant seeks to adopt might reasonably cause
mistake or confusion or be a cause of embarrassment or confusion to
any other person, or




(b)

that the change of name is sought for an improper purpose or is on any
other ground objectionable.




(5)

If the registrar general refuses to register a change of name, the
applicant, within 30 days after receipt of notification of the
refusal, may appeal the refusal to the Supreme Court.




(6)

The court




(a)

may consider the evidence it considers relevant,




(b)

must dispose of the appeal in a summary manner, and




(c)

may make the order it thinks proper.




(7)

The appellant must serve notice of the appeal on the registrar general
not less than 5 days before the hearing.




(8)

An appeal from a decision of the court lies to the Court of Appeal
with leave of a justice of the Court of Appeal.






Effect of registration




10

(1)


Registration under section 9, for all purposes, effects the change of
name according to the tenor of the application.




(2)

Registration of a change of surname of a person shall, subject to
section 4 (3) and (4), effect a similar change in the surname of each
of the unmarried minor children of the applicant that is included in
the application.






Certificate of change of name




11

(1)


If a change of name has been effected under section 10, a
certificate of change of name, setting out the names of all persons
for whom a change of name has been effected, signed by the registrar
general and issued under the registrar general's seal of office, must




(a)

be kept in the office of the registrar general, and




(b)

be preserved and remain in the registrar general's custody as part of
the records of the registrar general's office.




(2)

The registrar general must deliver or mail to the applicant a copy of
the certificate.






Publication of change of name




12

(1)


Promptly after issuing a certificate of change of name under section
11, the registrar general must publish




(a)

the person's new and former names,




(b)

the person's date of birth,




(c)

the name of the municipality in which the person resides, and




(d)

the effective date of the certificate.




(2)

Publication under subsection (1) may be in any form accessible to
qualified applicants as determined by the registrar general, including
electronic publication.




(3)

Subsection (1) does not apply if




(a)

the change of name is made for the sole purpose of changing the
surname of a minor to the surname of the applicant, or




(b)

in the opinion of the registrar general, publication is not in the
public interest.






Search and evidence




13

(1)


A person, on application and on payment of the prescribed fees, may
have a search made of the registrations of changes of names kept in
the office of the registrar general and may obtain from the registrar
general a certificate stating the facts as registered for a change of
name.




(2)

No person, except as provided in section 7, is entitled to have access
to the documents filed under section 7 or to obtain copies of the
documents.




(3)

A certificate purporting to be issued under this section must be
received in every court in British Columbia as proof in the absence of
evidence to the contrary of the facts in it certified to be registered
or recorded.




(4)

It is not necessary to prove the signature or official position of the
person by whom the certificate purports to be signed.




(5)

If the registrar general has made a determination under section 12 (3)
(b) not to publish a change of name and the registrar general
considers it in the public interest to do so, the registrar general
may refuse to issue a certificate under subsection (1) of this section
or give information respecting the person's change of name.






Notation of names after alteration




14

(1)


If the name of a person of whose birth registration has been made
under the

Vital Statistics Act

is changed under this Act, the registrar general must cause a marginal
notation of the change of name to be made on the original record of
the birth or marriage of the person.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), a change of surname must not be made on the
registration of a marriage that has been dissolved or that has been
terminated by the death of one of the spouses.




(3)

If an application is made for a certificate of the registration of
birth or marriage on the record of which a marginal notation has been
made under subsection (1), the registrar general must issue the
certificate as if the original registration had been made in the name
of that person as changed under this Act.






Obtaining of change of name by fraud




15

(1)


If a person has been convicted of obtaining a change of name by fraud
or misrepresentation, after the time for appeal against the conviction
has expired, or if, an appeal having been taken, the conviction is
sustained, the registrar general must annul the change of name by
order effective from the date named in it.




(2)

A marginal notation of the order must be made on the certificates
issued under section 11.




(3)

If the registrar general has, under subsection (1), annulled a change
of name, the registrar general may by order require a person to whom a
copy of the certificate has been issued under this Act promptly to
deliver it up.






Offences




16

(1)


A person who by fraud or misrepresentation effects a change of name
under this Act and a person who violates a provision of this Act or
who fails to comply with a provision, commits an offence.




(2)

A person who commits an offence under subsection (1) is liable on
conviction to a penalty of not more than $500 or to imprisonment for
any term not longer than 6 months.




(3)

A person who refuses or neglects to comply with an order under section
15 (3) commits an offence.




(4)

A person who commits an offence under subsection (3) is liable on
conviction to a penalty of not more than $100 and costs.




(5)

Proceedings may not be taken against a person under this Act without
the consent in writing of the Attorney General.






Power to make regulations




17

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
section 41 of the

Interpretation Act

.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations prescribing fees to be paid for anything done or
permitted to be done under this Act.




(2.1)

Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations establishing circumstances in which section 7
(1.3) does not apply.




(3)

The registrar general may waive the collection of a fee from a person
if the registrar general considers it necessary in order to obtain
compliance with the Act or to avoid hardship to the person.






Forms




18


The registrar general may establish forms to be used for the purposes
of this Act.




