




Offence Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 338






Definitions




1


In this Act:



"clerk of the peace"

includes the proper officer of the court that has jurisdiction in an
appeal under this Act;



"common jail"

or
"prison"
means any place, other than a penitentiary, in which persons charged
with offences are usually kept and detained in custody;


"copy"
means, in relation to a violation ticket that is an eTicket, a
printout, in the prescribed form, that is produced from the digital
record of the eTicket;


"district"
or
"county"
includes any territorial or judicial division or place in and for
which there is a judge, justice, justice's court, officer or prison as
is mentioned in the context;



"eCertificate of service"

means a certificate of service described in section 31.01;



"enforcement officer"

means any person or class of persons designated as an enforcement
officer under section 132;


"eTicket"
means a violation ticket described in section 14.01;


"fine"
includes any supplemental fine amount, or other additional monetary
penalty, established under an enactment;


"informant"
means a person who lays an information or an enforcement officer who
issues a violation ticket;



"information"

includes




(a)

a violation ticket,




(b)

a count in an information or in a violation ticket, and




(c)

a complaint in respect of which a justice is authorized to make an
order;


"justice"
means a justice of the peace, and includes 2 or more justices, if 2 or
more justices act or have jurisdiction, and a judge of the Provincial
Court or any person who has the power or authority of 2 or more
justices of the peace;



"optional conditions"

means the conditions referred to in section 89.2 that may be included
in a probation order;


"order"
includes an order for the payment of money;



"probation order"

means a probation order made under section 89;



"proceedings"

means




(a)

proceedings in respect of offences, and




(b)

proceedings in which a justice is authorized by an enactment to make
an order;


"prosecutor"
means an informant or the Attorney General or their respective counsel
or agents;



"territorial division"

means a district, county, township, city, town or other judicial
division or place;



"ticketed amount"

means, in relation to an alleged contravention of an enactment, for
which a violation ticket is issued under section 14, the aggregate of
the following amounts:




(a)

the fine prescribed for the contravention or, if 2 fines are
prescribed for the contravention, the fine payable at the time of
payment;




(b)

the victim surcharge levy to be paid with that fine under section 8.1
of the

Victims of Crime Act

;


"trial"
includes the hearing of a complaint;



"violation ticket"

means a violation ticket referred to in section 14 but does not
include the instructions prescribed under section 132 (2) (a.3).






Offence punishable on summary conviction




2


An offence created under an enactment is punishable on summary
conviction.






Application to proceedings




3

(1)


Except where otherwise provided by law, this Act applies to
proceedings as defined in section 1.




(2)

If no time is specially limited for making a complaint or laying an
information in the Act or law relating to the particular case,
proceedings must not be instituted more than 6 months after the time
when the subject matter of the proceedings arose.




(3)

An action or suit must not be brought for a penalty or forfeiture
under an Act except within 6 months after the cause of action arises,
unless the time is otherwise limited by the Act.






General penalty




4


Unless otherwise specifically provided in an enactment, a person who
is convicted of an offence is liable to a fine of not more than $2 000
or to imprisonment for not more than 6 months, or to both.






General offence




5


A person who contravenes an enactment by doing an act that it forbids,
or omitting to do an act that it requires to be done, commits an
offence against the enactment.






Absolute liability offences




6


Despite section 4 or the provisions of any other Act, no person is
liable to imprisonment with respect to an absolute liability offence.






Right to telephone




7

(1)


Every person who is taken into custody by a peace officer is entitled,
on request to the person responsible for his or her custody, to have
access to, and the private use of, a telephone as soon as possible at
least once during the first 12 hours of his or her custody.




(2)

A person who, without reasonable excuse, hinders or prevents a person
in custody from exercising the right granted by subsection (1),
commits an offence.






Jurisdiction




8


Subject to section 2.1 of the

Provincial Court Act

, every justice has jurisdiction to try, determine and adjudge
proceedings to which this Act applies in the territorial division over
which the justice has jurisdiction.






On water or near boundary




9

(1)


For this Act, if an offence is committed in or on any water or on a
bridge between 2 or more territorial divisions, the offence is deemed
to be committed in any of the territorial divisions.




(2)

For this Act, if an offence is committed on the boundary of 2 or more
territorial divisions or within 450 m of a boundary, or the offence
was commenced in one territorial division and completed in another,
the offence is deemed to be committed in any of the territorial
divisions.






Judicial notice




10

(1)


Judicial notice must be taken of the following:




(a)

a proclamation or order of the Lieutenant Governor in Council;




(b)

a regulation made by the Lieutenant Governor in Council under an Act;




(c)

a regulation made under an Act;




(d)

a regulation published in the Gazette.




(2)

Judicial notice must be taken of the publication of any of the matters
referred to in subsection (1).




(3)

An order or conviction must not be quashed or set aside, and a
defendant must not be discharged, merely because evidence has not been
given of any of the matters referred to in subsection (1).






Use of data records




10.1

(1)


In this section,
"data record"
means a record in an electronic or other format but does not include a
record in paper format.




(1.1)

This section does not apply to a violation ticket.




(2)

If a rule of law, custom or practice requires information to be
recorded or presented in writing, the requirement is deemed to be
satisfied if the information is recorded or presented in a format that
enables the information to be subsequently displayed or immediately
accessible in visible form.




(3)

If a rule of law, custom or practice requires information to be signed
or endorsed, the requirement is deemed to be satisfied in the case of
a data record if




(a)

a method of authentication is used to indicate




(i)

by whom the data record was created or communicated, and




(ii)

that the person who is required to sign or endorse the record approved
of the information in the record, and




(b)

the method of authentication is reliable and appropriate for that data
record.




(4)

If a rule of law, custom or practice requires information to be
presented in its original form, the requirement is deemed to be
satisfied in the case of a data record by the presentation of the data
record or a paper copy of the data record if there is a reasonable
assurance as to the integrity of the information being presented.




(5)

A data record is deemed to maintain the integrity of the information
being presented even though the information in the data record is
modified if




(a)

any modifications to the information in the data record are documented
in a manner that records the name of the person authorizing the
modification, the name of the person making the modification, the date
and time when the modification was made and the content of the
modification, and




(b)

the information referred to in paragraph (a) is available for
presentation.




(6)

A person who uses a data record for the purpose of making a statement
under oath must, instead of swearing or affirming an oath, sign a
statement in accordance with subsection (3) that all matters contained
in the data record are true to the person's knowledge and belief, and
a data record containing such a statement is deemed to be made under
oath.




(7)

This section must not be construed to limit the use of a data record
or to prevent the signing, endorsement or presentation of a data
record in any other manner authorized under an enactment or allowed by
a court.






Commencing proceedings




11


Proceedings must be commenced by the laying of an information in Form
2 or by means of a violation ticket under section 14.






One justice




12


Despite any other law that requires an information to be laid before,
or to be tried by, 2 or more justices, one justice may




(a)

receive the information,




(b)

issue a summons or warrant with respect to the information, and




(c)

do all other things preliminary to the trial.






Formalities of an information




13

(1)


An information




(a)

must be in writing, other than an information laid by means of an
eTicket,




(a.1)

must be under oath, other than an information laid by means of a
violation ticket, and




(b)

may charge more than one offence or relate to more than one matter of
complaint, but if more than one offence is charged or the information
relates to more than one matter of complaint, each offence or matter
of complaint must be set out in a separate count.




(2)

An information in respect of an offence for which, because of previous
convictions, a greater punishment may be imposed must not contain any
reference to previous convictions.




(3)

If a matter is prescribed for the purpose of section 4 (2) of the

Local Government Bylaw Notice Enforcement Act

, no proceeding may be commenced by an information, including a
violation ticket, under this Act in respect of the contravention of a
local government or City of Vancouver bylaw made in relation to the
matter.






Information laid by means of telecommunication




13.1

(1)


A peace officer may lay an information by any means of
telecommunication that produces a writing.




(2)

A peace officer who uses a means of telecommunication for the purpose
of laying an information must, instead of swearing an oath, make a
statement in writing stating that all matters contained in the
information are true to the peace officer's knowledge and belief, and
such a statement is deemed to be a statement made under oath.






Violation ticket




14

(1)


An enforcement officer may




(a)

sign and issue a violation ticket, other than an eTicket, for
contravention of an enactment referred to in the regulations, or




(b)

issue an eTicket for contravention of an enactment referred to in the
regulations.




(2)

For the purpose of a violation ticket issued to the owner of a motor
vehicle in respect of an offence under section 83.1 (2) or (2.1) of
the

Motor Vehicle Act

but without limiting the application of subsection (1) of this
section,




(a)

the violation ticket may be created, completed and signed in
electronic format by electronic or any other means that allows the
violation ticket to be reproduced in intelligible form including,
without limitation, electronically,




(b)

in place of signing the violation ticket under subsection (1), the
enforcement officer may identify himself or herself as the person
making and authenticating the violation ticket by means of an
electronic reproduction of his or her signature that is capable of
being assigned to that violation ticket only by that enforcement
officer,




(c)

the signature referred to in paragraph (b) may be made by electronic
or any other means that allows the signature to be reproduced in
intelligible form including, without limitation, by electronically
storing the signature by means of an electronic scanner or an
electronic signature pad,




(d)

if the violation ticket including the enforcement officer's signature
is in electronic format, it may be converted from electronic format to
paper format for all purposes including, without limitation, for the
purposes of subsections (5) and (6),




(e)

if the violation ticket including the enforcement officer's signature
is in electronic format, it may be received, transmitted, stored or
sent electronically,




(f)

if the violation ticket is sent to the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia in paper format for storage, the corporation may
convert it to and store it in electronic format, and




(g)

if the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia has stored the
violation ticket in electronic format under paragraph (e) or (f),




(i)

the corporation may provide the violation ticket or a copy of it by
reproducing it in electronic format or paper format, or on a record
that enables the information to be subsequently displayed or
immediately accessible in visible form, and




(ii)

the reproduction referred to in subparagraph (i) has the same effect
for all purposes as if it were an original document, if the
reproduction




(A)

is certified in writing by an officer of the corporation as being a
true reproduction of all the information on the violation ticket, or




(B)

contains a statement that it is an authentic reproduction of all the
information on a violation ticket stored in a database in electronic
format by the corporation.




(3)

A violation ticket is valid even though it is not taken under oath.




(4)

A violation ticket that is mailed under subsection (6) or served must
be in the prescribed form and must contain all of the following:




(a)

a statement of the alleged contravention;




(b)

a statement of the ticketed amount applicable to the alleged
contravention;




(c)

an address to which a notice disputing the allegation or the fine
portion of the ticketed amount may be delivered;




(d)

a statement that if the allegation or fine is not disputed within the
time provided in this Act




(i)

the violation ticket will be treated as not disputed,




(ii)

the person on whom the ticket is served will be deemed to have pleaded
guilty to the alleged contravention, and




(iii)

the ticketed amount indicated on the ticket will be payable to the
government;




(e)

in the case of a violation ticket issued in respect of an offence
under section 83.1 (2) or (2.1) of the

Motor Vehicle Act

, a statement that if the allegation or fine is disputed within the
time provided in section 15 (2) of this Act but the person to whom the
ticket was mailed fails to appear before the Provincial Court to
dispute the allegation or fine on a date referred to in section 15
(11) (a) or (b),




(i)

the violation ticket will be treated as not disputed,




(ii)

the person will be deemed to have pleaded guilty to the alleged
contravention, and




(iii)

the ticketed amount indicated on the ticket will be payable to the
government.




(5)

Subject to subsection (6), the violation ticket must be sent to the
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia and a copy of it must be
served on the person alleged to have contravened the enactment.




(5.1)

A violation ticket that is sent to the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia under subsection (5) is not insufficient or invalid
only because the instructions prescribed for the violation ticket
under section 132 (2) (a.3) are not sent to the Insurance Corporation
of British Columbia with the violation ticket.




(6)

A copy of a violation ticket issued in respect of an offence by an
owner of a motor vehicle under section 83 (2.1) or 83.1 (2) or (2.1)
of the

Motor Vehicle Act

may be sent




(a)

by ordinary mail to the address of the owner as set out in the records
of the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia, or




(b)

by registered mail to the address of the owner as set out in the
records of the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia.




(7)

If service is required by this section, an enforcement officer may
serve, or cause to be served, a copy of the violation ticket on the
person alleged to have contravened the enactment




(a)

immediately after the alleged contravention,




(b)

in the same manner as a summons is required to be served under this
Act, or




(c)

outside the province in accordance with section 14.1.




(8)

The use on a violation ticket of




(a)

any word or expression authorized by the regulations made under this
Act or another Act to designate an offence, or




(b)

a general description of an offence


is deemed sufficient for all purposes to describe the offence
designated by that word or expression.




(9)

Subject to subsection (10), the person on whom the violation ticket is
served may




(a)

dispute an allegation or the amount of the fine portion of the
ticketed amount indicated on the ticket in accordance with section 15,
or




(b)

pay the ticketed amount indicated on the ticket in accordance with the
prescribed instructions.




(10)

In the case of a violation ticket issued in respect of an offence
under section 83.1 (2) or (2.1) of the

Motor Vehicle Act

, the person




(a)

on whom the ticket is served, or




(b)

to whom the ticket is mailed under subsection (6) of this section,

may



(c)

dispute an allegation or the amount of the fine portion of the
ticketed amount indicated on the ticket in accordance with section 15
of this Act, or




(d)

pay the ticketed amount indicated on the ticket in accordance with the
prescribed instructions.




(11)

If a person pays all or a portion of the ticketed amount indicated on
a violation ticket in accordance with subsection (9) or (10), the
person is deemed to have pleaded guilty to the alleged contravention
and the unpaid portion of that ticketed amount is immediately payable
to the government.






eTickets




14.01

(1)


For the purposes of this Act, an eTicket is a type of violation ticket
created as an electronic digital record but does not include a
violation ticket referred to in section 14 (2).




(2)

An eTicket includes a printout or display, in the prescribed form,
that is produced from the digital record of the ticket.




(3)

A printout or display of the digital record of an eTicket containing a
statement that it is an authentic printout or display produced from
the digital record is conclusive proof of that fact.






Service of violation tickets outside British Columbia




14.1

(1)


A copy of a violation ticket may be served outside British Columbia in
accordance with this section.




(2)

A copy of a violation ticket may be served outside British Columbia on
an individual by an enforcement officer who must deliver it personally
to the individual to whom it is issued.




(3)

A copy of a violation ticket may be served outside British Columbia on
a corporation that does not have a registered or branch office in
British Columbia




(a)

by an enforcement officer who must deliver it to a director, or to a
manager, secretary or other executive officer, of the corporation or a
branch of it, or




(b)

if after hearing evidence that a person referred to in paragraph (a)
cannot be conveniently found, a justice so orders, by leaving it at,
or by mailing it by registered post addressed to, the registered or
principal office of the corporation.




(4)

Service under this section may be proven




(a)

as authorized under section 31, or




(b)

by affidavit of the enforcement officer who effected service stating
when, where and how service was effected.






Disputing violation ticket




15

(1)


A person on whom a violation ticket has been served may, within 30
days of being served, dispute the allegation or the fine portion of
the ticketed amount indicated on the ticket by




(a)

delivering or causing to be delivered to the address set out in the
ticket or to an address set out in the instructions prescribed under
section 132 (2) (a.3) a written notice of dispute, or




(b)

appearing in person at the location set out in the ticket or at a
location set out in the instructions prescribed under section 132 (2)
(a.3) to give notice of dispute.




(2)

A person to whom a violation ticket has been mailed under section 14
(6) (a) but on whom the ticket has not been served may, within 45 days
from the date the ticket is completed, dispute the allegation or the
fine portion of the ticketed amount indicated on the ticket by




(a)

delivering or causing to be delivered to the address set out in the
ticket or to an address set out in the instructions prescribed under
section 132 (2) (a.3) a written notice of dispute, or




(b)

appearing in person at the location set out in the ticket or at a
location set out in the instructions prescribed under section 132 (2)
(a.3) to give notice of dispute.




(3)

A notice of dispute under this section must contain an address for the
person disputing the allegation or fine and sufficient information to
identify the violation ticket and the alleged contravention or the
fine being disputed.




(4)

For the purpose of this section, a notice of dispute that is delivered
by mail is deemed to have been delivered on the date on which it was
mailed.




(5)

A copy of the violation ticket must be referred to the Provincial
Court for a hearing when the notice of dispute containing the
information referred to in subsection (3) is




(a)

delivered to the address set out in the violation ticket or the
address set out in the instructions prescribed under section 132 (2)
(a.3), or




(b)

given at the location set out in the violation ticket or the
instructions prescribed under section 132 (2) (a.3).




(6)

If a copy of the violation ticket is referred to the Provincial Court
under subsection (5),




(a)

a notice of hearing, or




(b)

a notice of appearance


must be sent to the person disputing the allegation or fine at the
address set out in the notice of dispute.




(7)

A copy of a violation ticket referred to the Provincial Court under
subsection (5) may be




(a)

a microfilm or other photographic reproduction of the violation ticket
that is certified in writing by an officer of the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia as being a true reproduction of the
ticket, or




(b)

a reproduction of electronically stored information, whether in
electronic or paper format or on any other record that enables the
information to be subsequently displayed or immediately accessible in
visible form, that




(i)

is certified in writing by an officer of the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia as being a true reproduction of all the information
on the violation ticket, or




(ii)

contains a statement that it is an authentic reproduction of all the
information on a violation ticket stored in a database in electronic
format by the corporation,


and the reproduction is deemed to be a copy of the violation ticket.




(7.1)

Without restricting any other method of complying with subsection (5)
in respect of eTickets, the requirement to refer a copy of an eTicket
to the Provincial Court is satisfied if the digital record of the
eTicket is referred to the court and the court can produce a printout
or display, in the prescribed form, of the digital record.




(8)

When the Provincial Court receives a copy of a violation ticket, the
court has jurisdiction to try, determine and adjudge proceedings
relating to the violation ticket in accordance with section 8.




(8.1)

A copy of a violation ticket that is referred to the Provincial Court
under subsection (5) and received by the Provincial Court under
subsection (8) is not insufficient or invalid only because the
instructions prescribed for the violation ticket under section 132 (2)
(a.3) are not referred to and received by the Provincial Court with
the violation ticket, and the court has jurisdiction to try, determine
and adjudge proceedings relating to the violation ticket in accordance
with section 8.




(9)

If a person appears before the Provincial Court at the hearing or
appearance on the date set by a notice under subsection (6), section
58 does not apply with respect to the person and the court has
jurisdiction to hear the dispute without




(a)

examining the notice of dispute, the notice of hearing or the notice
of appearance,




(b)

inquiring into the service of the ticket on the person, or




(c)

inquiring into whether the person received instructions prescribed for
the ticket under section 132 (2) (a.3).




(9.1)

If a person fails to appear before the Provincial Court at the hearing
or appearance on the date set by a notice under subsection (6), the
person may, within 30 days after that date, appear before a justice
for a determination of whether or not the failure to appear was the
person's fault.




(10)

If a person appears before a justice under subsection (9.1) and the
justice is satisfied by affidavit in the prescribed form that the
failure to appear was not the person's fault, the justice must




(a)

cause a new date to be set for the hearing or appearance, and




(b)

order the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia or the
superintendent to cancel or cease any administrative action that has
been taken or commenced by the corporation or the superintendent, as
the case may be, as a consequence of the person's failure to appear.




(11)

Subject to subsection (12), if a person fails to appear before the
Provincial Court at the hearing or appearance




(a)

on the date set by a notice under subsection (6), or




(b)

on any other date set by a justice for a hearing or an appearance in
relation to the violation ticket,


the allegation or fine is deemed not to be disputed, the Provincial
Court must not try, determine or adjudge the proceedings and section
16 (1) applies.




(12)

If a person to whom a violation ticket is mailed under section 14 (6)
(a) fails to appear before the Provincial Court on a date referred to
in subsection (11) (a) or (b) of this section,




(a)

the allegation or fine is deemed not to be disputed and the Provincial
Court must not try, determine or adjudge the proceedings,




(b)

the person is deemed to have pleaded guilty to the alleged
contravention, and




(c)

the ticketed amount indicated on the ticket is immediately payable to
the government.






Evidence admissible in trial on a violation ticket




15.1

(1)


Despite section 60, a justice hearing the trial on a violation ticket
may admit as evidence, whether or not it would be admissible under the
laws of evidence, any oral or written testimony or any record or thing
that the justice considers is




(a)

relevant to an issue in the trial, and




(b)

credible and trustworthy.




(2)

A justice may not admit under subsection (1) anything that is
privileged under the laws of evidence.






Procedures in trial on a violation ticket




15.2

(1)


Despite section 60, but subject to the applicable Rules of Court, a
justice hearing the trial on a violation ticket may adopt procedures
that are conducive to justly and expeditiously determining the matter.




(2)

On a trial of a violation ticket, the prosecutor may appear and
prosecute




(a)

by video conferencing, if video conferencing equipment is available at
the location of the Provincial Court where the trial is held, or




(b)

by telephone.




(3)

On a trial of a violation ticket for a prescribed offence, or for a
prescribed offence in prescribed circumstances, the defendant may
appear and defend




(a)

by video conferencing, if video conferencing equipment is available at
the location of the Provincial Court where the trial is held, or




(b)

by telephone.






Certificate evidence of prescribed violation ticket offence admissible




15.3

(1)


If a hearing required under section 15 (5) is in respect of a
prescribed offence, a certificate in the prescribed form, purporting
to be signed by an enforcement officer and setting out evidence of the
alleged offence, is admissible in the hearing without proof of the
signature or official character of the enforcement officer appearing
to have signed the certificate and is proof of the facts certified in
it unless there is evidence to the contrary.




(2)

For the purpose of a certificate under subsection (1),




(a)

the certificate may be created, completed and signed in electronic
format by electronic or any other means that allows the certificate to
be reproduced in intelligible form including, without limitation,
electronically,




(b)

in place of signing the certificate under subsection (1), the
enforcement officer may identify himself or herself as the person
making and authenticating the certificate by means of an electronic
reproduction of his or her signature that is capable of being assigned
to that certificate only by that enforcement officer,




(c)

the signature referred to in paragraph (b) may be made by electronic
or any other means that allows the signature to be reproduced in
intelligible form including, without limitation, by electronically
storing the signature by means of an electronic scanner or an
electronic signature pad,




(d)

if the certificate including the enforcement officer's signature is in
electronic format, it may be converted from electronic format to paper
format for all purposes including, without limitation, for the purpose
of delivering the certificate to the court, and




(e)

if the certificate including the enforcement officer's signature is in
electronic format, it may be received, transmitted, stored or sent
electronically.




(3)

A person against whom a certificate under this section is produced
may, with leave of the court, require the attendance of the
enforcement officer who signed the certificate, for the purpose of
cross-examination, if in the opinion of the court cross-examination is
necessary to determine a relevant issue before the court.




(4)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations for the
purposes of this section, including regulations prescribing




(a)

the offences in respect of which a certificate under subsection (1) is
admissible, and




(b)

the form of a certificate under subsection (1).






Disputing fine amount in writing




15.4

(1)


A person who delivers a notice of dispute under section 15 (1) or (2)
in respect of only the fine portion of the ticketed amount indicated
on a violation ticket may include with the notice, in the prescribed
form,




(a)

a statement that he or she does not want to appear in person for a
hearing of the dispute, and




(b)

written reasons for requesting




(i)

a reduction in the fine amount, or




(ii)

time to pay under section 82 (2) (b).




(2)

If a notice of dispute includes the form referred to in subsection
(1),




(a)

the hearing required by section 15 (5) is satisfied by the
consideration under paragraph (c),




(b)

section 15 (6) and (8) to (12) does not apply to the dispute,




(c)

the justice to whom the matter is referred must consider the reasons
provided under subsection (1) (b) and make an order in the dispute in
accordance with this Act, and




(d)

the order of the justice under paragraph (c) may be sent by ordinary
mail to the person who delivered the notice under section 15 (1) or
(2).




(3)

An order of a justice sent under subsection (2) (d) is deemed to have
been received on the 7th day after the date of mailing.






Failure to respond to ticket




16

(1)


If a person who has been served with a violation ticket under section
14 has not, within 30 days after the ticket was served on the person,
either paid all or a portion of the ticketed amount or disputed the
allegation or the fine portion of the ticketed amount in accordance
with section 15,




(a)

the person is deemed to have pleaded guilty to the alleged
contravention, and




(b)

the ticketed amount indicated on the ticket is immediately payable to
the government.




(2)

Subject to subsection (3), if a person who




(a)

is served with a violation ticket, and




(b)

is convicted under section 15 or deemed to have pleaded guilty under
subsection (1)


wishes to dispute the allegation or the amount of the fine, the person
must apply to a justice and the justice, on being satisfied of the
matters in subsection (2.1) by affidavit in the prescribed form and
with or without hearing from the applicant, may make an order striking
out the conviction, if any, and allowing the person to dispute the
allegation or the amount of the fine portion of the ticketed amount in
accordance with sections 15 to 15.4.




(2.1)

Before making an order under subsection (2) allowing a dispute to
proceed, a justice must be satisfied that




(a)

through no fault of the defendant, he or she did not have an
opportunity to dispute the allegation or the amount of the fine,




(b)

the defendant had a genuine intention to dispute the ticket before the
dispute period under subsection (1) expired,




(c)

no undue prejudice will result from the extension of the dispute
period,




(d)

the defendant has an arguable defence to the violation ticket, and




(e)

it is in the interests of justice to allow the dispute to proceed.




(3)

If a person




(a)

to whom a violation ticket is mailed under section 14 (6) (a) but on
whom the ticket has not been served, and




(b)

who was deemed to have pleaded guilty to the alleged contravention on
the ticket under section 14 (11) or 15 (12)


wishes to dispute the allegation or the amount of the fine, the person
must apply to a justice and the justice, on being satisfied of the
matters in subsection (3.2) by affidavit in the prescribed form and
with or without hearing from the applicant, may make an order striking
out the conviction, if any, and allowing the person to dispute the
allegation or the amount of the fine portion of the ticketed amount in
accordance with sections 15 to 15.4.




(3.1)

For the purposes of a hearing or appearance set in relation to a
violation ticket under subsection (3),




(a)

the affidavit referred to in subsection (3) constitutes a notice of
dispute under section 15 and is deemed to have been given in
accordance with section 15 (5) by the person to whom the ticket was
mailed, and




(b)

section 15 (5) to (10) and (12) applies.




(3.2)

Before making an order under subsection (3) allowing a dispute to
proceed, a justice must be satisfied that




(a)

through no fault of the defendant, he or she did not have an
opportunity to dispute the allegation or the amount of the fine, and




(b)

less than 30 days elapsed between the date the conviction first came
to the attention of the defendant and the date the defendant made the
application under subsection (3).




(4)

If a conviction is struck out under subsection (2) or (3), the justice
must, on request, give the person a certificate of the fact in the
prescribed form.




(5)

Nothing in subsection (1) is to be construed as abrogating the right
of a person to appeal the conviction under section 102.




(6)

A person to whom subsection (2) or (3) applies may not appeal to the
appeal court from




(a)

a conviction to which those subsections apply, or




(b)

an order under those subsections.






Conviction need not be entered




17


If a person is deemed to have pleaded guilty to an alleged
contravention under section 14 (11), 15 (12) or 16 (1) or is found
guilty of an alleged contravention by the Provincial Court, no minute
or memorandum of the conviction need be drawn up or entered unless it
is required by the person or a prosecutor or under the enactment
contravened.






Cancellation of violation ticket




18

(1)


The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia must cancel a violation
ticket that does not disclose an offence on its face.




(2)

A person designated under subsection (5) may cancel a violation ticket




(a)

that, through no fault of the person named on the ticket, was served
on a person other than the person so named, and




(b)

in respect of which the person named on the ticket was deemed to have
pleaded guilty under section 14 (11), 15 (12) or 16 (1).




(3)

A person designated under subsection (5) may cancel a violation ticket
that was mailed to a person under section 14 (6) if the person named
on the ticket was deemed to have pleaded guilty under section 14 (11)
but, through no fault of the person named on the ticket, all or a
portion of the ticketed amount indicated on the ticket was paid by a
person other than the person named.




(4)

A violation ticket that has been cancelled under this section is void
and any conviction with respect to the ticket is deemed never to have
occurred.




(5)

For the purposes of subsections (2) and (3), the Assistant Deputy
Attorney General, Criminal Justice Branch, may designate in writing
one or more persons.






Assistant Deputy Minister's directives




18.1

(1)


The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia, in carrying out its
responsibilities under this Act, must act in accordance with any
directives issued by the Assistant Deputy Attorney General, Criminal
Justice Branch.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1), the Assistant Deputy Attorney
General, Criminal Justice Branch, may issue general or specific
directives.






Jurisdiction of justices




19

(1)


Nothing in this Act or any other law requires a justice before whom
proceedings are commenced, or who issues process before or after the
trial, to be the justice or one of the justices before whom the trial
is held.




(2)

If 2 or more justices have jurisdiction with respect to proceedings,
they must be present and act together at the trial, but after the
trial one justice may do anything that is required or authorized to be
done in connection with the proceedings.




(3)

Subject to section 20, only the justice before whom the trial is
commenced has jurisdiction for the trial and adjudication, but any
justice may adjourn the proceedings at any time




(a)

before the plea of the defendant is taken, or




(b)

after the plea of the defendant is taken but before the trial is
commenced.




(4)

A justice who




(a)

adjourns a proceeding under subsection (3) (a) or (b), or




(b)

terminates a proceeding under section 31 (5) of the

Provincial Court Act



is not seized of the matter to which the proceeding relates.






Inability of justice to continue




20

(1)


If a trial is commenced before a justice and that justice dies or is
for any reason unable to continue the trial, another justice for the
same territorial division may act in the place of the justice before
whom the trial was commenced.




(2)

A justice who, under subsection (1), acts in the place of a justice
before whom a trial was commenced




(a)

must, if an adjudication has been made by the justice in whose place
he or she acts, impose the punishment or make the order that, in the
circumstances, is authorized by law, or




(b)

must, if an adjudication has not been made by the justice in whose
place he or she acts, commence the trial again as a new trial.






Search warrants




21

(1)


A justice who is satisfied by information on oath in Form 1 that there
is reasonable ground to believe that there is in a building,
receptacle or place




(a)

anything on or in respect of which an offence has been or is suspected
to have been committed, or




(b)

anything that there is reasonable ground to believe will afford
evidence as to the commission of such an offence


may issue and sign a warrant authorizing a person named in it or a
peace officer to search the building, receptacle or place for that
thing, and to seize the thing and to bring it or a report of it before
the justice who issued the warrant or another justice for the same
territorial division, to be dealt with under section 24.




(2)

If the building, receptacle or place in which anything mentioned in
subsection (1) is believed to be is in another territorial division,
the justice may issue a warrant in a similar form, modified according
to the circumstances, and the warrant may be executed in the other
territorial division after it has been endorsed in Form 16 by a
justice who has jurisdiction in that territorial division.




(3)

An endorsement made on a warrant under subsection (2) is sufficient
authority to the peace officers to whom it was originally directed,
and to all peace officers within the jurisdiction of the justice by
whom it is endorsed, to execute the warrant and to take the things to
which it relates before the justice who issued the warrant or some
other justice for the same territorial division.




(4)

A warrant issued under this section must be executed by day, unless
the justice, by the warrant, authorizes execution of it by night.




(5)

A search warrant issued under this section may be in Form 3.




(6)

If a thing is seized under this section, as soon as reasonably
possible after the seizure, the person who executed the warrant must
bring the thing, or a report of the thing, before a justice to be
dealt with under section 24.






Telewarrants




22

(1)


If a peace officer believes that an offence punishable on conviction
has been committed and that it would be impracticable to appear
personally before a justice to apply for a warrant in accordance with
section 21, the peace officer may submit an information on oath by
telephone or other means of telecommunication to a justice designated
for that purpose by the chief judge of the Provincial Court.




(2)

An information submitted by telephone or other means of
telecommunication must be on oath and must be recorded word for word
by the justice, who must, as soon as practicable, cause the record or
a transcription of it, certified by the justice as to time, date and
contents, to be filed with the clerk of the court for the territorial
division in which the warrant is intended for execution.




(3)

An oath under subsection (2) may be administered by telephone or other
means of telecommunication.




(4)

An information on oath submitted by telephone or other means of
telecommunication must include all of the following:




(a)

a statement of the circumstances that make it impracticable for the
peace officer to appear personally before a justice;




(b)

a statement of the offence alleged, the place or premises to be
searched and the items alleged to be liable to seizure;




(c)

a statement of the peace officer's grounds for believing that the
items liable to seizure in respect of the offence alleged will be
found in the place or premises to be searched;




(d)

a statement as to any prior application for a warrant under this
section or any other search warrant, in respect of the same matter, of
which the peace officer has knowledge.




(5)

A justice who is satisfied that an information submitted under this
section




(a)

concerns an offence punishable on conviction under an enactment,




(b)

conforms to the requirements of subsection (4),




(c)

discloses reasonable grounds for dispensing with an information
presented personally and in writing, and




(d)

discloses reasonable grounds, in accordance with section 21 (1) (a) or
(b), for the issuance of a warrant in respect of an offence

may issue a warrant to a peace officer that



(e)

confers the same authority respecting search and seizure as may be
conferred by a warrant issued under section 21, and




(f)

requires the warrant to be executed within a period of time that the
justice may order.




(6)

If a justice issues a warrant by telephone or other means of
telecommunication, the following rules apply:




(a)

the justice must complete and sign the warrant in Form 4, noting on
its face the time, date and place where it is issued;




(b)

the peace officer, on the direction of the justice, must complete, in
duplicate, a facsimile of the warrant in Form 4, noting on its face
the name of the justice who issued it and the time, date and place
where it was issued;




(c)

the justice must, as soon as practicable after the warrant has been
issued, cause the warrant to be filed with the clerk of the court for
the territorial division in which the warrant is intended for
execution.




(7)

A peace officer who executes a warrant issued by telephone or other
means of telecommunication must, before entering the place or premises
to be searched or as soon as practicable after entering, give a
facsimile of the warrant to any person present who appears to be in
control of the place or premises.




(8)

A peace officer who, in any unoccupied place or premises, executes a
warrant issued by telephone or other means of telecommunication must,
on entering the place or premises or as soon as practicable after
entering, cause a facsimile of the warrant to be suitably affixed in a
prominent place within the place or premises.




(9)

A peace officer to whom a warrant is issued by telephone or other
means of telecommunication must file a written report with the clerk
of the court for the territorial division in which the warrant was
intended for execution as soon as practicable but within a period not
longer than 7 days after the warrant has been executed, and the report
must include




(a)

a statement of the time and date the warrant was executed or, if the
warrant was not executed, a statement of the reasons why it was not
executed,




(b)

a statement of the things, if any, that were seized under the warrant
and the location where they are being held, and




(c)

a statement of the things, if any, that were seized in addition to the
things mentioned in the warrant and the location where they are being
held, together with a statement of the peace officer's grounds for
believing that those additional things had been obtained by, or used
in, the commission of an offence.




(10)

As soon as reasonably possible, the clerk of the court with whom a
written report is filed under subsection (9) must cause the report,
together with the information on oath and the warrant to which it
pertains, to be brought before a justice to be dealt with under
section 24.




(11)

In any proceeding in which it is material for a court to be satisfied
that a search or seizure was authorized by a warrant issued by
telephone or other means of telecommunication, the absence of the
information on oath, transcribed and certified by the justice as to
time, date and contents, or of the original warrant, signed by the
justice and carrying on its face a notation of the time, date and
place of issuance, is, in the absence of evidence to the contrary,
proof that the search or seizure was not authorized by a warrant
issued by telephone or other means of telecommunication.






Seizure of things not specified




23

(1)


A person who executes a warrant under section 21 or 22 may seize, in
addition to the things mentioned in the warrant, anything that on
reasonable grounds the person believes has been obtained by, or has
been used in, the commission of an offence.




(2)

If a thing is seized under subsection (1), as soon as reasonably
possible after the seizure, the person who executed the warrant must
bring the thing, or a report of the thing, before a justice to be
dealt with under section 24.




(3)

For the purposes of subsection (2), the thing or report must be
brought,




(a)

in the case of a warrant under section 21, before the justice who
issued the warrant or another justice for the same territorial
division, and




(b)

in the case of a warrant under section 22, before the justice before
whom the report is brought under section 22 (10).




(4)

If a thing is seized from a person by a peace officer in the execution
of his or her duties otherwise than under section 21 or 22 or
subsection (1) of this section, as soon as reasonably possible after
the seizure, the peace officer must




(a)

return it to the person from whom it was seized, if the peace officer
is satisfied that continued detention of the thing is no longer
required and that there is no dispute that the person from whom it was
seized is lawfully entitled to possession, or




(b)

bring the thing, or a report of the thing, before a justice to be
dealt with under section 24.






Detention of things seized




24

(1)


In this section and sections 24.1 and 24.2:



"relevant proceedings"

means a trial, inquiry or other proceeding in which the thing seized
may be required;



"responsible official"

means the prosecutor or the peace officer or other person having
custody of the thing seized;


"thing"
means anything that has been seized and is brought before a justice as
referred to in subsection (2).




(2)

If a thing or report is brought before a justice under section 21, 22
or 23, the justice must proceed as follows:




(a)

unless the prosecutor otherwise agrees, the justice must order its
detention;




(b)

if paragraph (a) does not apply and the person lawfully entitled to
possession is known, the justice must order its return to that person;




(c)

if neither paragraph (a) nor (b) applies, the justice must order that
it be held until dealt with under section 24.2.




(3)

A thing may not be detained under subsection (2) (a) for longer than 3
months from the day of seizure unless




(a)

relevant proceedings are instituted before the end of that period, or




(b)

an order authorizing the continued detention is made on an application
under subsection (5).




(4)

More than one application under subsection (5) may be made in relation
to a thing, but the application must be made




(a)

to a Provincial Court judge, if the total period of detention is to be
longer than one year from the day of seizure if the order is made, and




(b)

to a justice in any other case.




(5)

On application by the responsible official made on at least 3 days'
notice to the person from whom the thing was seized, the judge or
justice may make an order authorizing continued detention as follows:




(a)

in the case of an application to a justice made before the period for
detention has expired, the justice may order the continued detention
for a specified period if satisfied that this continued detention is
warranted having regard to the nature of the investigation;




(b)

in the case of an application to a judge made before the period for
detention has expired, the judge may order the continued detention for
a specified period, subject to any conditions the judge considers
just, if satisfied that this continued detention is warranted having
regard to the nature of the investigation;




(c)

in the case of an application made after the period for detention has
expired, the judge or justice may order the continued detention for a
specified period, subject to any conditions the judge or justice
considers just, if satisfied that




(i)

the continued detention might reasonably be required for the purpose
of an investigation or relevant proceedings, and




(ii)

it is in the interests of justice to make the order.




(6)

As an exception to subsection (3) or an order under subsection (5), if
an application under subsection (5) has been made but is not yet
decided, the period authorized for detention of the thing extends
until the application is decided.






Access to thing seized




24.1

(1)


On at least 3 days' notice to the Attorney General, a person who has
an interest in a thing detained under section 24 may apply to a
Provincial Court judge for an order under subsection (2) that the
person be permitted to examine the thing.




(2)

The judge may make an order that the applicant or a representative of
the applicant be permitted to examine the thing, but must make the
order on terms that the judge considers necessary or desirable to
ensure that the thing to be examined is safeguarded and preserved for
any purpose for which it may subsequently be required.




(3)

In the case of a thing seized that is a record, at any time while it
is detained the Attorney General or responsible official may have a
copy of the record made and may retain that copy even after the
original is no longer detained.




(4)

A copy under subsection (3) that is certified to be a true copy by




(a)

the Attorney General,




(b)

the person who made the copy, or




(c)

the person in whose presence the copy was made


is admissible in evidence and, in the absence of evidence to the
contrary, has the same probative force as the original document would
have had if it had been proved in the ordinary way.






Order for disposition of thing seized




24.2

(1)


Unless otherwise provided by another enactment, an order for the
disposition of a thing seized may be made by application under this
section




(a)

to a Provincial Court judge, in the case of a thing ordered detained
by a judge of that court, or




(b)

to a justice in any other case.




(1.1)

Subsection (1) of this section does not apply if, under section 14.04
(1) (b) (iv) or 23.01 of the

Civil Forfeiture Act

, the director under that Act serves notice of forfeiture under Part
3.1 of that Act or notice of intent to commence proceedings, as the
case may be, on the responsible official having custody of the thing
seized, unless




(a)

that notice is withdrawn under section 14.08 (a) or 23.01 (4) (a) (ii)
of that Act, or




(b)

in the case of notice of intent to commence proceedings, the 30 day
period referred to in section 23.01 (4) (a) of that Act expires and no
proceedings are commenced under section 3 of that Act in relation to
the thing seized.




(2)

An application under this section may be made as follows:




(a)

by the person from whom the thing was seized, on at least 3 days'
notice to the Attorney General, if




(i)

the total period for detention under section 24 has expired, or




(ii)

the judge or justice is satisfied that hardship will result unless the
application is allowed to be heard earlier;




(b)

by another person claiming to be lawfully entitled to possession of
the thing, at any time on at least 3 days' notice to the Attorney
General and to the person from whom the thing was seized;




(c)

by a responsible official as required under subsection (3), on at
least 3 days' notice to the person from whom the thing was seized.




(3)

Unless an application is made under section 24 (5) (c), the
responsible official must make an application under this section if




(a)

the responsible official determines that the continued detention of a
thing seized is no longer required, or




(b)

the period for detention has expired and no proceedings have been
instituted in which the thing seized may be required.




(4)

Subject to subsection (5), on an application under this section, the
judge or justice




(a)

must order the thing returned to the person from whom it was seized,
if that person is lawfully entitled to its possession,




(b)

must order the thing returned to another person lawfully entitled to
it, if this person is known and the person from whom the thing was
seized is not lawfully entitled to its possession,




(c)

if an order cannot be made under paragraph (a) or (b) because the
thing has already been forfeited and sold or otherwise dealt with
under paragraph (d) such that it cannot be returned to the applicant,
must order that unless otherwise provided by law the applicant be paid
the proceeds of sale or the value of the thing seized, and




(d)

if an order is not made under paragraph (a) or (b), may order that the
thing is forfeited to the government, to be disposed of as the
Attorney General directs or otherwise dealt with in accordance with
the law.




(5)

An order may be made under subsection (4) only if the judge or justice
is satisfied that




(a)

the total period for detention under section 24 has expired and
relevant proceedings have not been instituted, or




(b)

the total period for detention has not expired but the continued
detention of the thing seized will not be required for the purpose of
an investigation or relevant proceedings.




(6)

A person aggrieved by an order under this section may appeal the order
to the Supreme Court and, for the purposes of the appeal, sections 103
to 114 apply.




(7)

Despite anything in this section, a thing must not be returned,
forfeited or disposed of under an order under subsection (4) until the
later of the following:




(a)

30 days after the order is made under subsection (4);




(b)

if the order under subsection (4) is appealed, 30 days after the
decision on the appeal has been given.




(8)

This section does not apply if, in relation to a thing seized,
proceedings are commenced under section 3 of the

Civil Forfeiture Act

or the property is forfeited and disposed of by the director under
Part 3.1 of that Act.






Power to lay information or complaint




25

(1)


A person may, on reasonable and probable grounds,




(a)

lay an information before a justice




(i)

that any person, being within the jurisdiction of that justice, has
committed or is suspected of having committed an offence or act for
which the person is liable by law, on conviction, to be imprisoned,
fined or otherwise punished, or




(ii)

that any person has committed or is suspected of having committed
within British Columbia an offence or act for which the person is
liable by law, on conviction, to be imprisoned, fined or otherwise
punished, or




(b)

make a complaint to a justice in relation to any matter on which the
justice has authority by law to make an order for the payment of money
or otherwise.




(2)

The information or complaint may be in Form 2 or of similar effect.






Justice to hear informant or witnesses and issue a summons or warrant




26

(1)


A justice who receives an information must




(a)

hear and consider without the necessity of notice to any other person




(i)

the allegations of the informant, and




(ii)

the evidence of witnesses if the justice considers it desirable or
necessary, and




(b)

if the justice considers that a case for doing so is made out, issue a
summons or warrant to compel the defendant to attend before the
justice.




(2)

A justice who hears the evidence of a witness under subsection (1)
must




(a)

take the evidence on oath, and




(b)

have the evidence taken in accordance with section 540 of the

Criminal Code

, insofar as that section is capable of being applied.




(3)

A justice must not sign a summons or warrant in blank.






Summons




27


A summons may be in one of the prescribed forms and must




(a)

be directed to the defendant,




(b)

set out briefly the offence in respect of which the defendant is
charged, and




(c)

require the defendant to appear at a time and place stated in the
summons.






Service on individual




28

(1)


Subject to subsection (3), a summons must be served by a peace officer
or enforcement officer, who must deliver it personally to the person
to whom it is directed, or, if that person cannot conveniently be
found, must leave it for the person at the person's last or usual
residence with an occupant of it who appears to be at least 16 years
of age.




(2)

For the purposes of the service of a summons in respect of an alleged
offence under a bylaw of a municipality, a peace officer includes a
bylaw enforcement officer appointed under section 36 of the

Police Act

.




(3)

A summons in respect of an alleged offence under a bylaw of a
municipality or regional district may be served in the manner set out
in subsection (1) by a person appointed for that purpose by the
council of the municipality or the board of the regional district.




(4)

For the purposes of this section, a person appointed under subsection
(3) has the legal status of a peace officer.






Service on a corporation or municipality




29

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), if the defendant is a corporation, the
summons must be served




(a)

by delivering it to a director, or to a manager, secretary or other
executive officer of the corporation or of a branch of it, or on the
attorney of an extraprovincial company, or




(b)

if after hearing evidence that a person referred to in paragraph (a)
cannot be conveniently found, a justice so orders, by leaving it at,
or mailing it by registered post addressed to, the registered or
principal office of the corporation.




(2)

If the defendant is a municipality or regional district, the summons
may be served by delivering it




(a)

in the case of the City of Vancouver, to the mayor or city clerk,




(b)

in the case of another municipality, to the mayor or in accordance
with section 159
[notice to municipality]
of the

Community Charter

, and




(c)

in the case of a regional district, to the chair of the regional
district or in accordance with section 246
[giving notice to regional districts]
of the

Local Government Act

.






Service of a copy




30

(1)


If there is any reference in this Act to service of a summons,
appearance notice or promise to appear or to a summons, appearance
notice or promise to appear being served, the reference must be read
as a reference to service of the summons, appearance notice or promise
to appear or a copy of it, and a summons, appearance notice or promise
to appear is sufficiently served if a copy of it is served.




(2)

If a copy of a summons, appearance notice or promise to appear is
served, the certificate referred to in section 31 (1) (b) may be
endorsed on another copy of, or on, the summons, appearance notice or
promise to appear.






Proof of service




31

(1)


Service of a summons, violation ticket, appearance notice and promise
to appear may be proved by




(a)

the oral evidence given under oath of a person who served it,




(b)

the certificate of service, other than an eCertificate of service, of
a person who served the summons, violation ticket, appearance notice
or promise to appear if the certificate is endorsed on a copy of the
document that was served, or




(c)

the eCertificate of service of a person who served a violation ticket
that is an eTicket.




(2)

The certificate referred to in subsection (1) (b) is proof of the
authority of the person who signed it.




(2.1)

When a certificate of service referred to in subsection (1) (b) or (c)
is completed for the purposes of proving service of a violation
ticket, the certificate must be sent to the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia.




(3)

The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia may electronically
convert from paper format to electronic format or store or send in
electronic format a certificate of service of a violation ticket
issued in respect of an offence under section 83.1 (2) or (2.1) of the

Motor Vehicle Act

.




(4)

If the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia has stored a
certificate of service of a violation ticket in electronic format
under subsection (3),




(a)

the corporation may provide the certificate of service by reproducing
it in electronic format or paper format, or on a record that enables
the information to be subsequently displayed or immediately accessible
in visible form, and




(b)

the reproduction referred to in paragraph (a) has the same effect for
all purposes as an original of the certificate of service, if the
reproduction




(i)

is certified in writing by an officer of the corporation as being a
true reproduction of all the information on the certificate of
service, or




(ii)

contains a statement that it is an authentic reproduction of all the
information on a certificate of service stored in a database in
electronic format by the corporation.






eCertificates of service




31.01

(1)


For the purposes of this Act, an eCertificate of service is a type of
certificate of service created as an electronic digital record to be
used to prove service of eTickets.




(2)

An eCertificate of service includes a printout or display, in the
prescribed form, that is produced from the digital record of the
certificate.




(3)

A printout or display of the digital record of an eCertificate of
service containing a statement that it is an authentic printout or
display produced from the digital record is conclusive proof of that
fact.






Validation of service




31.1


If a document has been served in any manner, including electronically,
the court may make an order validating the service if the court is
satisfied that




(a)

the document came to the notice of the person to be served, or




(b)

the document was served in such a manner that it would have come to
the notice of the person to be served except for the person's own
attempts to evade service.






Service on Sunday or holiday




32


A warrant or summons authorized by this Act may be issued or executed
on a Sunday or statutory holiday.






Copy of a warrant to be served




33


If a warrant is issued in the first instance for the arrest of a
defendant, a copy of it must be served on the person who is arrested
under it.






Contents of a warrant to arrest




34

(1)


A warrant may be in Form 5 and must




(a)

name or describe the defendant,




(b)

set out briefly the offence in respect of which the defendant is
charged, and




(c)

order that the defendant be arrested and brought before the justice
who issued the warrant or before another justice who has jurisdiction
in the same territorial division, to answer to the charge and be
further dealt with according to law.




(2)

A warrant remains in force until it is executed and need not be made
returnable at any particular time.






Formalities on a warrant




35


A warrant must be signed by a justice and may be directed




(a)

to a peace officer by name,




(b)

to a peace officer by name and all other peace officers in the
territorial jurisdiction of the justice, or




(c)

generally to all peace officers within the territorial jurisdiction of
the justice.






Summons not to prevent a warrant




36


A justice may issue a warrant




(a)

in Form 5 for the arrest of a defendant even if a summons has already
been issued to require the appearance of the defendant, or




(b)

in one of the prescribed forms, if




(i)

service of a summons is proved and the defendant does not appear,




(ii)

it appears that a summons cannot be served because the defendant is
evading service, or




(iii)

service of an appearance notice or promise to appear is proved and the
defendant does not attend court in accordance with the appearance
notice or promise to appear.






Execution of a warrant




37

(1)


A warrant may be executed by arresting the defendant wherever the
defendant is found within the territorial jurisdiction of the justice
who issued the warrant.




(2)

A warrant may be executed by a person who is the peace officer named
in the warrant or one of the peace officers to whom it is directed,
whether or not the place in which the warrant is to be executed is in
the territory for which the person is a peace officer.






Promise to appear




38

(1)


In this section,
"officer in charge"
means




(a)

the officer in command of the police force or police department, or of
the designated policing unit or designated law enforcement unit as
those terms are defined in section 1 of the

Police Act

, who is responsible for the lockup or other place to which a
defendant is taken after arrest, or




(b)

a peace officer designated by the officer referred to in paragraph (a)
for this section who is in charge of the lockup or other place at the
time the defendant is taken to that place to be detained in custody.




(2)

If a justice issues a warrant under this Act for the arrest of a
defendant, the justice may authorize the release of the defendant
under subsection (3) by making an endorsement on the warrant in Form
17.




(3)

If a person who has been arrested with a warrant issued under this Act
is taken into custody, the officer in charge may, if the warrant has
been endorsed by a justice under subsection (2), release the defendant
on the defendant giving his or her promise to appear.




(4)

If an enactment provides for the arrest of a person without the
issuing of a warrant for the person's arrest and the person is taken
into custody, the officer in charge may, despite the enactment under
which the arrest is made, release the person on the person giving his
or her promise to appear.




(5)

A promise to appear must be in a prescribed form.




(6)

A person who fails to comply with the conditions set out in a promise
to appear commits an offence.






Appearance notice




39

(1)


An appearance notice may be issued by




(a)

a person who has a power to arrest without warrant under an enactment,
and




(b)

an enforcement officer, for contravention of an enactment in respect
of which the regulations allow an enforcement officer to issue an
appearance notice.




(2)

An appearance notice must be in a prescribed form.




(3)

A person who fails to comply with the conditions set out in an
appearance notice commits an offence.






Procedure to procure attendance of a prisoner




40

(1)


If a person who is confined in a prison in British Columbia is
required




(a)

to stand trial for an offence to which this Act applies, or




(b)

to attend to give evidence in a proceeding to which this Act applies,


the Supreme Court or a justice may order in writing that the prisoner
be brought before the justice before whom his or her attendance is
required, as necessary, if




(c)

the applicant for the order sets out the facts of the case in an
affidavit and produces the warrant, if any, and




(d)

the court or justice is satisfied that the ends of justice require
that an order be made.




(2)

An order made under subsection (1) must be addressed to the person who
has custody of the prisoner, and on receipt of it that person must




(a)

deliver the prisoner to a person named in the order to receive the
prisoner, or




(b)

bring the prisoner before the justice on payment of his or her
reasonable charges for so doing.




(3)

If the prisoner is required as a witness, the court or justice must
direct in the order the manner in which the prisoner is to be kept in
custody and returned to the prison from which he or she is brought.




(4)

If the appearance of the prisoner is required for the purposes of
subsection (1) (a), the court or justice must give appropriate
directions in the order with respect to the manner in which the
prisoner is to be returned if he or she is acquitted of the charge
against him or her.




(5)

Section 83 applies if a prisoner to whom this section applies is
convicted and sentenced to imprisonment by the justice.






Endorsement on a warrant




41

(1)


If a warrant for the arrest of a defendant cannot be executed in
accordance with section 37, a justice in whose jurisdiction the
defendant is, or is believed to be, must, on application and on proof
on oath, or by affidavit, of the signature of the justice who issued
the warrant, authorize the execution of the warrant in his or her
jurisdiction by making an endorsement, which may be in Form 16, on the
warrant.




(2)

An endorsement made on a warrant under subsection (1) is sufficient
authority to the peace officers to whom it was originally directed and
to all peace officers in the territorial jurisdiction of the justice
by whom it is endorsed to execute the warrant and to take the
defendant before the justice who issued the warrant or before another
justice for the same territorial division.






Application of sections 43 to 52




42


Unless section 40 applies, sections 43 to 52 apply if a person is
required to attend to give evidence in a proceeding to which this Act
applies.






Subpoena or warrant may be issued




43

(1)


If a person is likely to give material evidence in a proceeding to
which this Act applies, a subpoena may be issued requiring that person
to attend to give evidence.




(2)

If it is made to appear that a person who is likely to give material
evidence




(a)

will not attend in response to a subpoena, if a subpoena is issued, or




(b)

is evading service of a subpoena,


a court or justice having power to issue a subpoena to require the
attendance of that person to give evidence may issue a warrant in Form
8 to cause that person to be arrested and to be brought to give
evidence.




(3)

Unless subsection (2) (a) applies, a warrant in Form 8 must not be
issued unless a subpoena has first been issued.






Requirements for issuing subpoena or warrant




44

(1)


If a person is required to attend to give evidence in proceedings over
which a justice has jurisdiction, a subpoena directed to that person
must be issued




(a)

by a justice if the person whose attendance is required is in British
Columbia, or




(b)

out of the Supreme Court if the person whose attendance is required is
not in British Columbia.




(2)

A subpoena must not be issued under subsection (1) (b) except under an
order of the court made on application by a party to the proceedings.




(3)

A subpoena or warrant that is issued by a court must be under the seal
of the court and must be signed by the court or by the clerk of the
court.




(4)

A subpoena or warrant that is issued by a justice must be signed by
the justice.




(5)

A subpoena may be in Form 7.






Contents of a subpoena




45

(1)


A subpoena must require the person to whom it is directed to attend at
a time and place to be stated in the subpoena to give evidence and, if
required, to bring with him or her any writings that the person has in
his or her possession or under his or her control relating to the
subject matter of the proceedings.




(2)

A person who is served with a subpoena must attend and remain in
attendance throughout the proceedings, unless excused by the justice.






Service




46

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), a subpoena must be served in accordance
with section 28.




(2)

A subpoena issued under section 44 (1) (b) must be served personally
on the person to whom it is directed.




(3)

Service of a subpoena may be proved by the affidavit of the person who
effected service.






Subpoena effective throughout British Columbia




47


A subpoena issued by a justice has effect anywhere in British
Columbia.






Warrant effective throughout British Columbia




48


Subject to section 49 (3), a warrant issued by a justice may be
executed anywhere in British Columbia.






Warrant for an absconding witness




49

(1)


If a person is bound by a recognizance to give evidence in any
proceedings, a justice who is satisfied, on information being made
before the justice in writing and under oath, that the person is about
to abscond or has absconded, may issue a warrant, in Form 9, directing
a peace officer to arrest that person and to bring the person before
the justice before whom the person is bound to appear.




(2)

Section 41 applies to a warrant issued under this section.




(3)

A person who is arrested under this section is entitled, on request,
to receive a copy of the information on which the warrant for the
arrest was issued.






Warrant when witness does not attend




50

(1)


If a person who has been served with a subpoena to give evidence in a
proceeding does not attend or remain in attendance, the justice before
whom that person was required to attend may issue or cause to be
issued a warrant, in Form 8, for the arrest of that person, if it is
established that




(a)

the subpoena has been served in accordance with this Act, and




(b)

the person is likely to give material evidence.




(2)

If a person who has been bound by a recognizance to attend to give
evidence in any proceeding does not attend or does not remain in
attendance, the court or justice before whom that person was bound to
attend may issue or cause to be issued a warrant, in Form 8, for the
arrest of that person.






Order where witness arrested under warrant




51


If a person is brought before a justice under a warrant issued under
section 43 (2), or under section 49 or 50, the justice may order that
the person be




(a)

detained in custody, or




(b)

released on recognizance, in Form 18, with or without sureties,


to appear and give evidence when required.






Contempt




52

(1)


A person who, being required by law to attend or remain in attendance
to give evidence, fails, without lawful excuse, to attend or remain in
attendance accordingly is guilty of contempt of court.




(2)

A judge of the Provincial Court may deal summarily with a person who
is guilty of contempt of court under this section.




(3)

A person who is guilty of contempt of court under this section




(a)

is liable to a fine of $100, or to imprisonment for 90 days or to
both, and




(b)

may be ordered to pay the costs incidental to the service and
execution of the subpoena and warrant and to his or her detention, if
any.




(4)

A conviction under this section may be in Form 21, and a warrant of
committal in respect of a conviction under this section may be in Form
14.






Order in court




53


Subject to section 2.1 of the

Provincial Court Act

, every justice has the same power and authority to preserve order in
a court over which he or she presides as may be exercised by the
Supreme Court.






Open court




54


The room or place in which the justice sits to hear and try a
complaint or information is deemed to be an open and public court to
which the public generally may have access so far as it can
conveniently contain them.






Resistance to execution of process




55


When resistance is offered to the execution of a summons, warrant of
execution or other process issued by a justice, the justice may
enforce the execution of it by the means provided by the law for
enforcing the execution of the process of other courts in similar
cases.






Absence of the prosecutor




56


If the defendant appears for the trial and the prosecutor, having had
notice, does not appear, the justice may dismiss the information or
may adjourn the trial to another time on terms the justice considers
proper.






Appearance of the prosecutor and defendant or counsel




57

(1)


If the prosecutor and defendant appear, the justice must proceed to
hold the trial.




(2)

A defendant may appear personally or by counsel or agent, but the
justice may require the defendant to appear personally, and may, if
the justice thinks fit, issue a warrant, in Form 5, for the arrest of
the defendant and adjourn the trial to await his or her appearance
under the warrant.




(3)

If the defendant is a corporation, it must appear by counsel or agent,
and if it does not appear, the justice may, on proof of service of the
summons, proceed without further notice to hold the trial.






Arraignment




58


When the defendant appears, the substance of the information must be
stated to the defendant, and the defendant must be asked




(a)

whether the defendant pleads guilty or not guilty to the information,
if the proceedings are in respect of an offence that is punishable on
conviction, or




(b)

whether the defendant has cause to show why an order should not be
made against him or her, in proceedings where a justice is authorized
by law to make an order.






Conviction or order if charge admitted




59


If the defendant pleads guilty or does not show sufficient cause why
an order should not be made against him or her the justice must
convict the defendant or make an order against the defendant
accordingly.






Procedure if charge not admitted




60


If the defendant pleads not guilty or states that he or she has cause
to show why an order should not be made against him or her the justice
must proceed with the trial, and must take the evidence of witnesses
for the prosecutor and the defendant in the same manner, as nearly as
may be, as evidence is taken on a preliminary inquiry under Part XVIII
of the

Criminal Code

.






Separating trial of counts




61


Before or during the trial, a justice who is satisfied that the ends
of justice require it, may direct that the defendant be tried
separately on one or more of the counts in the information.






Joining informations for trial




62


If a justice is satisfied that one or more informations or violation
tickets, or a combination of them, relate to the same incident and
that the interests of justice require it, the justice may, before or
during trial, direct that the defendant be tried on one or more of the
informations or violation tickets, or a combination of them, at the
same time.






Admission by the defendant




63


A defendant may admit any fact alleged against the defendant for the
purpose of dispensing with the proof of it.






Prosecution by an enforcement officer




63.1

(1)


An enforcement officer may appear as, and may exercise the powers and
perform the functions of, a prosecutor in relation to a violation
ticket under this Act whether or not he or she is a member of the Law
Society of British Columbia.




(2)

Section 15 (1) of the

Legal Profession Act

does not apply in respect of anything authorized under this section.






Full answer and defence




64


The prosecutor is entitled personally to conduct his or her case, and
the defendant is entitled to make a full answer and defence.






Examination of witnesses




65

(1)


The prosecutor or defendant may examine and cross examine witnesses
personally or by counsel or agent.




(2)

A witness must be examined on oath or affirmation.




(3)

The justice has full power and authority to administer to a witness
the usual oath or affirmation.






Proceedings before a justice




66

(1)


A justice who, in a proceeding, is exercising jurisdiction under the

Provincial Court Act

may, at any stage of the proceeding, exercise that jurisdiction in the
absence of a prosecutor.




(2)

If a justice is exercising the jurisdiction referred to in subsection
(1) in the absence of a prosecutor,




(a)

section 56 does not apply,




(b)

the justice may, under section 67 (1), adjourn the trial, and




(c)

section 69 applies only if the adjournment was made during a trial
where a prosecutor had appeared.






Adjournment




67

(1)


A justice may in his or her discretion, before or during a trial,
adjourn the trial.




(1.1)

The parties to a trial adjourned under subsection (1) must be notified
of the time and place appointed for their next appearance before the
court.




(1.2)

For the purpose of giving notice under subsection (1.1) in relation to
a violation ticket, section 15 (6) applies.




(2)

If the justice adjourns a trial, the justice may, on condition that
the defendant appear at the time and place set for resumption of the
trial,




(a)

permit the defendant to be at large,




(b)

commit the defendant by warrant, in Form 10, to a prison in the
territorial division for which the justice has jurisdiction, or to any
other safe custody the justice thinks fit, or




(c)

discharge the defendant on the defendant's recognizance, in Form 18




(i)

with or without sureties, or




(ii)

on depositing a sum of money the justice directs.






Absence of defendant




68


If the defendant does not appear at the time and place appointed for
the trial, and service of the summons within a reasonable period
before the appearance was required is proved, or if the defendant does
not appear for the resumption of a trial that has been adjourned in
accordance with section 67, the justice may




(a)

proceed to hear and determine the proceedings in the absence of the
defendant as fully and effectually as if the defendant had appeared,
or




(b)

if the justice thinks fit, issue a warrant in a prescribed form or
Form 6 for the arrest of the defendant, and adjourn the trial to await
the defendant's appearance to it.






Absence of prosecutor




69


If the prosecutor does not appear at the time and place appointed for
the resumption of an adjourned trial, the justice may dismiss the
information, with or without costs.






Remand for observation




70


If the justice is of the opinion, supported by the evidence of at
least one medical practitioner or nurse practitioner, that there is
reason to believe that the defendant is mentally ill, the justice, at
any time before convicting the defendant or making an order against
the defendant or dismissing the information, may, by order in writing,
remand the defendant to the custody that the justice directs for
observation for a period of not longer than 30 days.






Effect and enforcement of recognizances




71


If a person gives security by a recognizance or is bound by a
recognizance to appear before a justice for any purpose, sections 762
to 773 of the

Criminal Code

apply, with the necessary changes and so far as applicable, to the
recognizance.






Supreme Court may grant or vary bail




72


The Supreme Court may, on application,




(a)

admit the defendant to bail if bail has been refused by a justice, or




(b)

vary the amount of bail set by a justice.






Repealed




73


[Repealed 2012-1-3.]






Conviction order or dismissal




74


When the justice has heard the prosecutor, defendant and witnesses,
the justice must, after considering the matter,




(a)

convict the defendant,




(b)

make an order against the defendant, or




(c)

dismiss the information.






Previous conviction




75

(1)


If a defendant is convicted of an offence for which a greater
punishment may be imposed by reason of previous convictions, a greater
punishment must not be imposed on the defendant for that reason,
unless the prosecutor satisfies the justice that the defendant, before
making his or her plea, was notified that a greater punishment would
be sought for that reason.




(2)

If a defendant is convicted of an offence for which a greater
punishment may be imposed by reason of previous convictions, the
justice must, on application by the prosecutor, and on being satisfied
that the defendant was notified in accordance with subsection (1), ask
the defendant whether the defendant was previously convicted, and if
the defendant does not admit that he or she was previously convicted,
evidence of previous convictions may be adduced.




(3)

A justice who holds a trial under section 68 may, if the justice
convicts the defendant, make inquiries with respect to previous
convictions, whether or not the defendant was notified that a greater
punishment would be sought because of them.




(4)

Under this section, a previous conviction may be proved in the manner
prescribed by section 667 of the

Criminal Code

.






Memorandum of conviction or order




76


If a defendant is convicted or if an order is made against the
defendant,




(a)

a minute or memorandum of the conviction or order may be made, without
fee, but whether or not a minute or memorandum is made, the conviction
or order must be drawn up by the justice in Form 19 or 20, and




(b)

the justice must issue a warrant of committal in Form 11 or 12, and
section 41 applies to the warrant of committal.






Disposal of penalties when joint offenders




77


If several persons join in committing the same offence, and on
conviction each is adjudged to pay an amount to a person aggrieved, no
more must be paid to that person than an amount equal to the value of
the property destroyed or injured or the amount of the injury done,
together with costs, if any, and the residue of the amount adjudged to
be paid must be applied in the manner in which other penalties imposed
by law are directed to be applied.






Order of dismissal




78

(1)


If the justice dismisses an information, the justice may, if requested
by the defendant, draw up an order of dismissal, and must give to the
defendant a certified copy of the order of dismissal.




(2)

A copy of an order of dismissal, certified in accordance with
subsection (1), is, without further proof, a bar to any subsequent
proceedings against the defendant in respect of the same cause.






Costs




79

(1)


The justice may, in his or her discretion, award and order costs the
justice considers reasonable and not inconsistent with the fees
established by section 80 to be paid




(a)

to the informant by the defendant, if the justice convicts or makes an
order against the defendant, or




(b)

to the defendant by the informant, if the justice dismisses an
information.




(2)

An order under subsection (1) must be set out in the conviction,
order, or order of dismissal.




(3)

Costs awarded and ordered to be paid by a person under this section
are deemed to be all or part, as the case may be, of a fine imposed
against the person.






Fees and allowances




80


The fees and allowances mentioned in the tariff to this Act, and no
others, are the fees and allowances that may be taken or allowed in
proceedings before justices under this Act.






Investigation and prosecution costs




81

(1)


In this section,
"court"
means the Provincial Court.




(2)

If a person is convicted of an offence under a prescribed enactment,
the court may order that the defendant is liable, after review and the
filing of a certificate under this section, for the costs of the
investigation into the offence.




(3)

The prosecutor may prepare a certificate setting out the costs of the
investigation, including the cost to the government of any fees paid
to experts, investigators and witnesses.




(4)

The prosecutor may apply to a registrar of the Supreme Court to have
the certificate reviewed and, on the review, the registrar must assess
the costs that are payable under subsection (2).




(5)

The registrar may vary the costs if he or she considers that they are
unreasonable or not related to the investigation.




(6)

The Supreme Court Civil Rules apply to the review of a certificate
under this section as though it were a review of disbursements under
those rules.




(7)

After the review, the certificate of the registrar may be filed in the
court and may be enforced as if it were an order of the court
requiring the person convicted to pay the amount of costs in the
certificate to the government.




(8)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations for the
purposes of this section including regulations that prescribe an
enactment for the purposes of subsection (2).






Imprisonment for default of payment of fine




82

(1)


Subject to subsection (7), but despite any other provision of this
Act, any other Act, regulation, municipal bylaw or order made by a
justice, a justice must not, except under the

Small Claims Act

, order that a person be imprisoned merely because he or she defaults
in paying a fine.




(2)

If a justice imposes a fine authorized by this or any other Act, the
justice, despite this Act or the Act under which the fine is imposed,
may order that the fine and the victim surcharge levy that is, under
section 8.1 of the

Victims of Crime Act

, to be paid with that fine, be paid




(a)

subject to subsection (3), at once, or




(b)

at a time, in instalments and subject to terms and conditions the
justice considers appropriate.




(3)

A justice must not make an order under subsection (2) (a) unless




(a)

the justice is satisfied that the person against whom the fine is
imposed has sufficient means and ability to enable the person to pay
the fine and the victim surcharge levy that is, under section 8.1 of
the

Victims of Crime Act

, to be paid with that fine, at once,




(b)

on being asked by the justice whether he or she desires time for
payment, the person against whom the fine is imposed does not request
time, or




(c)

the justice has a special reason, which the justice must give orally
or in writing, for requiring that the fine and the victim surcharge
levy that is, under section 8.1 of the

Victims of Crime Act

, to be paid with that fine, be paid at once.




(4)

In making an order under subsection (2) (b), the justice must consider
any representations made by the person against whom the fine is
imposed, and must not make the first instalment payable within 14 days
after the date of the order.




(5)

A justice, on application made at any time by the person against whom
a fine is imposed, may amend or vary an order made under subsection
(2) (b).




(6)

If a person fails to pay




(a)

a fine and victim surcharge levy in accordance with an order made
under subsection (2), or




(b)

a ticketed amount payable as a result of the person being found guilty
of or being deemed to have pleaded guilty to the contravention of an
enactment alleged in a violation ticket,


a certificate of a person designated in the regulations may be filed
with the Supreme Court or Provincial Court stating




(c)

the date of the conviction or the deemed guilty plea, as the case may
be, and the amount of the fine and victim surcharge levy or of the
ticketed amount, as the case may be,




(d)

the name of the person required to pay the fine and victim surcharge
levy or the ticketed amount, as the case may be,




(e)

the date on which the fine and victim surcharge levy or the ticketed
amount, as the case may be, was payable,




(f)

the amount of the fine and victim surcharge levy or of the ticketed
amount, as the case may be, remaining unpaid, and




(g)

the amount of interest payable under section 82.1 with respect to the
unpaid amount of the fine and victim surcharge levy or of the ticketed
amount, as the case may be.




(7)

A certificate filed with the Supreme Court or Provincial Court under
subsection (6) has the same effect, and proceedings may be taken by a
person or a class of persons designated by the Attorney General, as if
it were a judgment of the Supreme Court for the recovery of a debt in
the amounts referred to in subsection (6) (f) and (g) against the
person named in the certificate.




(8)

A certificate may not be filed under subsection (6)




(a)

with respect to a fine and victim surcharge levy payable in accordance
with an order made under subsection (2), more than 10 years after the
day on which the order is made, and




(b)

with respect to a ticketed amount referred to in subsection (6) (b),
more than 10 years after the day on which the person is found guilty
of or is deemed to have pleaded guilty to the contravention of an
enactment alleged in the violation ticket.






Degrees of punishment




83

(1)


If an enactment prescribes different degrees or kinds of punishment in
respect of an offence, the punishment to be imposed is, subject to the
limitations prescribed in the enactment, in the discretion of the
justice who convicts a person who commits the offence.




(2)

If an enactment prescribes punishment in respect of an offence, the
punishment to be imposed is, subject to the limitations prescribed in
the enactment, in the discretion of the justice who convicts a person
who commits the offence, but no punishment is a minimum punishment
unless it is declared to be a minimum punishment.




(3)

If a defendant is convicted




(a)

while under sentence for an offence, and a term of imprisonment is
imposed, or




(b)

of more than one offence before the same justice at the same sitting,
and the justice imposes terms of imprisonment for the respective
offences,


the justice who convicts the defendant may direct that the terms of
imprisonment are to be served one after the other.






Punishment only after conviction and only as prescribed




84


If an enactment creates an offence and authorizes a punishment to be
imposed in respect of it,




(a)

a person is deemed to be not guilty of that offence until convicted of
it, and




(b)

a person who is convicted of that offence is not liable to punishment
in respect of it other than the punishment prescribed by this Act or
by the enactment that creates the offence.






Parties to an offence




85

(1)


Everyone is a party to an offence who




(a)

actually commits it,




(b)

does or omits to do anything for the purpose of aiding a person to
commit it, or




(c)

abets a person in committing it.




(2)

If a person counsels or procures another person to be a party to an
offence and that other person is afterwards a party to that offence,
the person who counselled or procured is a party to that offence, even
if the offence was committed in a way different from that which was
counselled or procured.




(3)

Everyone who counsels or procures another person to be a party to an
offence is a party to every offence that the other person commits, in
consequence of the counselling or procuring, that the person who
counselled or procured knew or ought to have known was likely to be
committed in consequence of the counselling or procuring.






Sentence and imprisonment




86

(1)


A sentence commences when it is imposed, unless a relevant enactment
otherwise provides or the justice or the court appealed to otherwise
orders.




(2)

The time during which a convicted person is at large on bail does not
count as part of any term of imprisonment imposed as a result of the
person's conviction.




(3)

Despite subsection (1), a term of imprisonment, whether imposed by the
justice or the court appealed to, commences or is deemed to be
resumed, as the case requires, on the day on which the convicted
person is arrested and taken into custody under the sentence.






Intermittent imprisonment




87

(1)


If a defendant who is convicted of an offence is sentenced to a term
of imprisonment of 90 days or less and the justice considers it just
and reasonable to do so, the justice may, by order, direct that the
defendant




(a)

serve the sentence intermittently at the times specified by the
justice in the order, and




(b)

comply with the conditions in a probation order




(i)

when the defendant is not in custody during the period the sentence is
being served, and




(ii)

on the defendant's release from custody after the defendant completes
the sentence.




(2)

A defendant who is ordered to serve a sentence of imprisonment
intermittently may, on giving notice to a prosecutor, apply to a
justice for an order allowing the defendant to serve the sentence on
consecutive days.




(3)

If a justice imposes a term of imprisonment on a defendant who is
subject to an intermittent sentence in respect of another offence, the
unexpired portion of the intermittent sentence must be served on
consecutive days, unless the justice orders otherwise.






Court may impose a lesser fine




88

(1)


Despite any other section of this Act or any other Act, in determining
the fine to be imposed on conviction, the justice must consider the
means and ability of the defendant to pay the fine, and, if the
justice is of the opinion that the defendant is unable to pay the
amount of the fine that the justice would otherwise impose, the
justice may impose a fine in a lesser amount that the justice
considers appropriate.




(2)

If a minimum fine is established under the

Motor Vehicle Act

for contravention of a provision of that Act, a justice must not
impose under subsection (1) a fine of less than the minimum
established.






Probation order




89


If a defendant is convicted of an offence, the justice, having regard
to the age, character and background of the defendant, the nature of
the offence and the circumstances surrounding the commission of the
offence, may, by order,




(a)

instead of sentencing the defendant to punishment, suspend the passing
of sentence and direct that the defendant be released on the
conditions in a probation order, or




(b)

in addition to imposing on the defendant a fine or term of
imprisonment, direct that the defendant comply with the conditions in
a probation order.






Mandatory conditions in probation order




89.1


The justice must include, as conditions in a probation order, that the
defendant do all of the following:




(a)

keep the peace and be of good behaviour;




(b)

appear before the court as and when required to do so by a justice;




(c)

notify the justice or a person designated by the justice




(i)

in advance of any change in the defendant's name or address, and




(ii)

promptly of any change in the defendant's employment or occupation.






Optional conditions in probation order




89.2


The justice may include, as additional conditions in a probation
order, that the defendant must comply with one or more of the
following, as specified in the order:




(a)

the defendant must report to a probation officer or other person
designated by the justice




(i)

within 2 business days after the probation order is made, unless a
longer period is specified by the justice, and




(ii)

after reporting under subparagraph (i), at the times and in the manner
directed by the probation officer or designated person;




(b)

the defendant must be under the supervision of the probation officer
or designated person referred to in paragraph (a);




(c)

the defendant must not possess or consume




(i)

alcohol or other intoxicating substances, or




(ii)

a controlled substance, as defined in the

Controlled Drugs and Substances Act

(Canada), except in accordance with a medical prescription;




(d)

the defendant must not own, possess or carry a weapon;




(e)

the defendant must provide for the support or care of a spouse or
other dependants;




(f)

the defendant must perform community service;




(g)

if the defendant agrees and is accepted into the program, the
defendant must actively participate in a treatment or other program
approved by the government;




(h)

the defendant must make restitution or reparation for any loss or
damage suffered as a result of the commission of the offence;




(i)

the defendant must not make contact with a person or may have only
limited contact with a person;




(j)

the defendant must not be present at a place or premises;




(k)

the defendant must provide a written apology;




(l)

the defendant must comply with any other reasonable conditions the
justice considers appropriate to




(i)

protect the public,




(ii)

prevent similar unlawful conduct by the defendant, or




(iii)

contribute to the rehabilitation of the defendant.






Term and form of probation order




89.3

(1)


A probation order may be kept in force for a term not exceeding 2
years.




(2)

The justice who makes a probation order must specify the term of the
probation order.




(3)

A probation order may be in Form 25.






Obligations of justice




89.4

(1)


The justice who makes a probation order must take reasonable steps to
ensure that the defendant




(a)

receives a copy of the order,




(b)

receives an explanation of the following:




(i)

the mandatory and optional conditions in the order;




(ii)

the process under section 89.5 for making changes to the order;




(iii)

the consequences under section 89.6 for failing to comply with a
probation order, and




(c)

understands the order and the explanations given under paragraph (b).




(2)

For certainty, a failure to comply with subsection (1) does not affect
the validity of a probation order.






Changes to probation order




89.5

(1)


A defendant, probation officer or prosecutor, with notice to the
others, may apply to a justice for an order under subsection (3).




(2)

On an application under subsection (1), the justice must require the
defendant to appear before the justice.




(3)

After hearing from the defendant and one or both of the probation
officer and the prosecutor, the justice may, by order, do any of the
following:




(a)

if the justice considers it appropriate because of a change in
circumstances,




(i)

change an optional condition in the probation order,




(ii)

add an optional condition to the probation order, or




(iii)

remove an optional condition from the probation order;




(b)

relieve the defendant from compliance with an optional condition in
the probation order, either absolutely or on terms or for a period the
justice considers appropriate;




(c)

terminate the probation order or decrease the period for which the
probation order is to be kept in force.




(4)

If the justice makes an order under subsection (3), the justice must




(a)

endorse the probation order accordingly, and




(b)

take reasonable steps to ensure that the defendant




(i)

is informed of any changes made to the probation order under
subsection (3) (a) to (c), and




(ii)

receives a copy of the endorsed probation order.






Failure to comply with probation order




89.6

(1)


A defendant who is bound by a probation order commits an offence if
the defendant, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with a
condition in the probation order.




(2)

A defendant who is charged with an offence under subsection (1) may be
tried and punished by any justice having jurisdiction to try that
offence in




(a)

the place where the offence is alleged to have been committed, or




(b)

the place where the defendant is found, arrested or in custody.






Arrest without warrant




89.7

(1)


In this section,
"police officer"
means




(a)

a special provincial constable, as defined in the

Police Act

,




(b)

a designated constable, as defined in the

Police Act

,




(c)

an officer, member or constable of the provincial police force,




(d)

an officer, member or constable of a municipal police force in the
Province, or




(e)

a member of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police.




(2)

A police officer may arrest without warrant a person whom the police
officer believes on reasonable and probable grounds is committing an
offence under section 89.6.






Application of provisions in section 732.2 of
Criminal Code




89.8


Section 732.2 (1) and (2) (a) of the

Criminal Code

applies, with the necessary changes and so far as applicable, to a
probation order.






Additional punishment for breach of probation order




90

(1)


A justice who meets the requirements under subsection (2) may make an
order under subsection (3) if a defendant who is bound by a probation
order is convicted of an offence, including an offence under section
89.6, and




(a)

the defendant has elected not to appeal against the conviction for
that offence,




(b)

the time limit for bringing an appeal against the conviction for that
offence has expired and the defendant has not appealed against the
conviction, or




(c)

the defendant has appealed against the conviction for that offence and
the appeal has been dismissed or abandoned.




(2)

A justice may make an order under subsection (3) only if the justice




(a)

is the same justice who made the probation order, or




(b)

has jurisdiction in the territorial division in which the probation
order was made.




(3)

If the requirements under subsections (1) and (2) are met, then, in
addition to any punishment that may be imposed for the offence, the
justice may, by order,




(a)

change an optional condition in the probation order,




(b)

add an optional condition to the probation order,




(c)

remove an optional condition from the probation order,




(d)

extend the period, by not more than one year, for which the probation
order is to be kept in force,




(e)

terminate the probation order, or




(f)

if the probation order was made under section 89 (a),




(i)

revoke the probation order, and




(ii)

impose any sentence that could have been imposed if the passing of
sentence had not been suspended.




(4)

If a justice makes an order under subsection (3), the justice must




(a)

endorse the probation order accordingly, and




(b)

take reasonable steps to ensure that the defendant




(i)

is informed of any changes made to the probation order under
subsection (3) (a) to (f), and




(ii)

receives a copy of the endorsed probation order.






Intoxicated person




91

(1)


If a peace officer finds, in a place to which the public has access, a
person who is in a state of intoxication, the peace officer may take
that person into custody.




(2)

If it appears to the peace officer that the person may be in need of
remedial treatment because of the use of alcohol, the peace officer
must, within 24 hours, take the person to a physician.




(3)

If the peace officer does not act under subsection (2), the person in
custody must be released




(a)

on recovering sufficient capacity to remove himself or herself without
danger to himself or herself or others, or causing a nuisance, or




(b)

if application is made sooner by an adult who appears to be capable of
taking charge of the person, into the charge of the applicant.




(4)

If a physician is satisfied that a person brought to him or her under
subsection (2) is in need of treatment because of the excessive use of
alcohol and that no arrangements have been made for the voluntary
treatment of the person, or, if made, are not likely to be adhered to
by the person,




(a)

the physician may give a certificate to that effect, and the person
may be taken to, examined, treated and detained in, an institution for
the treatment and rehabilitation of chronic alcoholics, or to a
psychiatric unit or observation unit, within the meaning of the

Mental Health Act

, and




(b)

an application may be made for a confirming order under this section.




(5)

If the physician is not satisfied that the person is in need of
treatment under subsection (4), the person must be released at once.




(6)

A person taken to an institution or unit under the authority of a
certificate given under subsection (4) must not be detained there for
more than 72 hours unless the person's continued detention is
authorized by a confirming order.




(7)

Subsections (1), (2) and (3) apply only to those portions of British
Columbia and to those classes of persons that the Lieutenant Governor
in Council designates.






Chronic alcoholic




92

(1)


In this section,
"confirming order"
means an order made under subsection (4).




(2)

An application for a confirming order may be made to a justice
exercising jurisdiction at the place




(a)

where the person was taken into custody,




(b)

at which the person is detained, or




(c)

where the person has his or her home.




(3)

The application may be heard and determined, and adjourned, even if
the person has been released from the place where he or she was
detained under the authority of a certificate given under section 91
(4).




(4)

If, after hearing the evidence of a physician who has examined the
person and any other evidence of the person's addiction to, or use of,
alcohol, and any evidence of the person concerned, the justice is
satisfied that the person concerned is in need of treatment and
rehabilitation as provided for chronic alcoholics, and that no firm
arrangements have been made for the voluntary treatment of the person
or, if made, are not likely to be adhered to by the person, the
justice may make an order that, for an indeterminate term not
exceeding 12 months, the person attend at, or be detained in, an
institution where treatment is provided for chronic alcoholics.




(5)

If the justice dismisses an application for a confirming order before
the expiration of the period of 72 hours referred to in section 91
(6), the dismissal does not, unless the justice makes an order to that
effect, impair the authority of the certificate, and the person may
continue to be detained as provided in the certificate until the
expiration of the period of 72 hours.




(6)

A copy of an order for detention made under subsection (4) must be
directed to the director of correction, who must, if space is
available, make arrangements for the detention of the person named in
the order at an institution where treatment and rehabilitation is
provided for chronic alcoholics, and, if the person named is detained
in a psychiatric unit or observation unit, he or she must be
transferred accordingly.




(7)

If detention is ordered under subsection (4), pending transfer to the
place of detention, the person may be detained in a common jail or
lockup, and the time during which a person is detained must be
deducted from the indeterminate term imposed under this section.




(8)

Despite this Act, the chief probation officer may, before the
expiration of the term of attendance or detention ordered under
subsection (3), discharge the person from attendance or detention on
terms and conditions that the chief probation officer may, in his or
her discretion, impose for the unexpired portion of that term.






Probation breach by chronic alcoholic




93

(1)


If the chief probation officer certifies in writing that there has
been a breach of any term or condition imposed by him or her under
section 92 (8), the chief probation officer may, by signing a warrant,
authorize the apprehension of the person by a peace officer.




(2)

On apprehension, the person must be brought before a justice, who, on
being satisfied that the person has failed to observe a term or
condition imposed by the chief probation officer, may order that the
person be detained in a place named in the order for the balance of
the term ordered under section 92 (4), unless sooner discharged by the
chief probation officer on terms and conditions specified by him or
her.




(3)

The production of a document purporting to be signed by the chief
probation officer, and to be his or her certificate under subsection
(1), is evidence of a breach referred to in the certificate and of the
authority for the detention of the person named in it.




(4)

If a person, without authority, absents himself or herself from a
place of detention, or, if his or her absence is authorized under
section 92 (8), the person fails to return to the place of detention
when instructed by the chief probation officer to do so, the person
may be apprehended, with or without a warrant, by a peace officer and
returned to the place of detention.






Repealed




94


[Repealed 2007-8-57.]






Execution of warrant of committal




95

(1)


A peace officer or other person to whom a warrant of committal
authorized by this or any other Act or law is directed must convey the
person named or described in the warrant to the jail or other prison
mentioned in the warrant and deliver the person, together with the
warrant, to the keeper of the jail or prison, who must then give to
the peace officer or other person who delivers the prisoner a receipt,
in Form 24, setting out the state and condition of the prisoner when
delivered into his or her custody.




(2)

It is not necessary to give a receipt to a peace officer or other
person delivering a prisoner to the custody of the keeper or other
person in charge of a municipal lockup or of a prison which is not a
common jail of any county.






Originating document must contain substance of evidence




96

(1)


An information, complaint, warrant, conviction or other proceeding
under this Act must in general apply to a single transaction, and must
contain, and is sufficient if it contains in substance, a statement
that the defendant committed an offence or act specified in the
proceeding and punishable on summary conviction.




(2)

The statement referred to in subsection (1) may be




(a)

in popular language without technical averments or allegations of
matters that are not essential to be proved,




(b)

in the words of the enactment that describes the offence or declares
the matters charged to be an offence or act punishable on summary
conviction, or




(c)

in words that are sufficient to give to the defendant notice of the
offence with which the defendant is charged.




(3)

An information must contain sufficient detail of the circumstances of
the alleged offence to give to the defendant reasonable information
with respect to the act or omission to be proved against the defendant
and to identify the transaction referred to, but otherwise the absence
or insufficiency of details does not vitiate the information.




(4)

An information may refer to any section, subsection, paragraph,
subparagraph or clause of the enactment that creates the offence
charged, and for determining whether an information is sufficient,
consideration must be given to any such reference.




(5)

Nothing in this Act relating to matters that do not render an
information insufficient is deemed to restrict or limit the
application of this section.






Information sufficient despite certain omissions




97

(1)


No information, complaint, warrant, conviction or other proceeding
under this Act is insufficient because of the absence of details if,
in the opinion of the justice, the information otherwise fulfills the
requirements of section 96.




(2)

Without restricting subsection (1), no information is insufficient
merely because it fails to




(a)

name the person injured or intended or attempted to be injured,




(b)

name the person who owns or has a special property or interest in
property mentioned in the information,




(c)

specify the means by which the alleged offence was committed,




(d)

name or describe with precision any person, place or thing, or




(e)

if the consent of a person, official or authority is required before
proceedings may be instituted for an offence, state that the consent
has been obtained.




(3)

The justice may, if satisfied that it is necessary for a fair trial,
order that a particular, further describing any matter relevant to the
proceedings, be furnished to the defendant.






Burden on defendant to prove an exception




98

(1)


No exception, exemption, proviso, excuse or qualification prescribed
by law is required to be set out or negatived in an information.




(2)

The burden of proving that an exception, exemption, proviso, excuse or
qualification prescribed by law operates in favour of the defendant is
on the defendant, and the prosecutor is not required, except by way of
rebuttal, to prove that the exception, exemption, proviso, excuse or
qualification does not operate in favour of the defendant, whether or
not it is set out in the information.




(3)

If it appears that the defendant has done any act or been guilty of
any omission for which, were the defendant not licensed or registered
or authorized by a consent, permit, certificate or otherwise, he or
she would be liable to a penalty, the defendant must prove that he or
she is licensed or registered or authorized by a consent, permit,
certificate or otherwise.






Process not objectionable on other grounds




99


No information, summons, conviction, order or process is deemed to
charge 2 offences or to be uncertain merely because it states that the
alleged offence was committed




(a)

in different modes, or




(b)

in respect of one or other of several articles, either conjunctively
or disjunctively.






Amending defective information




100

(1)


An objection to an information for a defect apparent on its face must
be made by motion to quash the information before the defendant has
pleaded, and after that only by leave of the justice before whom the
trial takes place.




(2)

A justice may, on the trial of an information, amend the information
or a particular furnished under section 97 (3) to make the information
or particular conform to the evidence if there appears to be a
variance between the evidence and




(a)

the charge in the information, or




(b)

the charge in the information




(i)

as amended, or




(ii)

as it would have been if amended in conformity with any particular
furnished under section 97 (3).




(3)

A justice may, at any stage of the trial, amend the information as may
be necessary if it appears




(a)

that the information




(i)

fails to state or states defectively anything that is required to
constitute the offence,




(ii)

does not negative an exception that should be negatived, or




(iii)

is in any way defective in substance,


and the matters to be alleged in the proposed amendment are disclosed
by the evidence taken on the trial, or




(b)

that the information is in any way defective in form.




(4)

A variation between the information and the evidence taken on the
trial is not material with respect to




(a)

the time when the offence is alleged to have been committed, if it is
proved that the information was laid within the prescribed period of
limitation, or




(b)

the place where the subject matter of the proceedings is alleged to
have arisen, if it is proved that it arose in the territorial
jurisdiction of the justice who holds the trial.




(5)

The justice must, in considering whether or not an amendment should be
made, consider




(a)

the evidence taken on the trial, if any,




(b)

the circumstances of the case,




(c)

whether the defendant has been misled or prejudiced in his or her
defence by a variance, error or omission mentioned in subsection (2)
or (3), and




(d)

whether, having regard to the merits of the case, the proposed
amendment can be made without injustice being done.




(6)

If, in the opinion of the justice, the defendant has been misled or
prejudiced in his or her defence by an error or omission in the
information, the justice may adjourn the trial, and may make an order
for the payment of costs resulting from the necessity of amendment as
the justice considers desirable.






Appeal court defined




101


In sections 102 to 114,
"appeal court"
means the Supreme Court.






Appeal




102


Unless otherwise provided by law,




(a)

the defendant may appeal to the appeal court




(i)

from a conviction or order made against the defendant, or




(ii)

against a sentence passed on the defendant,




(b)

the informant, the Attorney General or the Attorney General's agent in
proceedings under this Act may appeal to the appeal court




(i)

from an order dismissing an information, or




(ii)

against a sentence passed on a defendant, and




(c)

a person in respect of whom a confirming order or an order of
detention is made under section 91, 92 or 93 may appeal to the appeal
court from




(i)

the confirming order, or




(ii)

the order of detention.






Place of hearing




103


An appeal under section 102 must be heard at the sittings of the
appeal court that is held nearest to the place where the conviction or
order was made or sentence passed, but the appeal court may, on the
application of one of the parties, appoint a place for the hearing of
the appeal.






Notice of appeal




104

(1)


An appellant who proposes to appeal to the appeal court must give
notice of appeal in a manner and within a period directed by the
Criminal Rules of the Supreme Court of British Columbia.




(2)

The appeal court may at any time extend the time within which a notice
of appeal may be given.






Appeal from conviction




105

(1)


If an appeal to the appeal court is from a conviction imposing
imprisonment without alternative punishment, the appellant must




(a)

remain in custody until the appeal is heard, or




(b)

enter into a recognizance.




(2)

If an appeal to the appeal court is from a conviction or order
adjudging that a fine or sum of money be paid and imposing a term of
imprisonment in default of payment, the appellant must




(a)

remain in custody until the appeal is heard,




(b)

enter into a recognizance, or




(c)

deposit with the justice the amount of the fine or the sum of money to
be paid.




(3)

If an appeal to the appeal court is from a conviction or order
adjudging that a fine or sum of money be paid but not imposing a term
of imprisonment in default of payment, the appellant must comply with
subsection (2) (b) or (c).






Formalities of recognizance




106

(1)


A recognizance entered into under section 105




(a)

must be in Form 18,




(b)

must be entered into before a judge of the Supreme Court or a justice
who has jurisdiction in the territorial division in which the
conviction or order was made, in an amount the court or justice
directs,




(c)

may be required to be entered into with one or more sureties, and




(d)

may, if it is not entered into by one or more sureties, be required to
be accompanied by a deposit of a sum of money the court or justice
directs.




(2)

It is a condition of a recognizance under section 105 that




(a)

the appellant, if he or she was the defendant in the proceedings
before the justice, will appear personally at the sittings of the
appeal court at which the appeal is to be heard, and




(b)

the appellant will abide the judgment of the appeal court on the
appeal.




(3)

An appeal court has, with respect to a recognizance that appears to it
to be insufficient, defective or invalid, the same powers that the
Supreme Court has under section 116 (4).




(4)

If an appellant is in custody and a recognizance is entered into under
section 105, an order for discharge in Form 22 must be issued by the
person who takes the recognizance.






Payment of fine is not waiver of appeal, etc.




107

(1)


A person does not waive his or her right of appeal under section 102
merely because he or she pays the fine imposed on conviction without
in any way indicating an intention to appeal or reserving the right to
appeal.




(2)

A conviction, order or sentence is deemed not to have been appealed
against until the contrary is shown.






Transmission of conviction, etc.




108

(1)


If a notice of appeal is filed, the clerk of the appeal court must
obtain from the court from which the appeal is brought the conviction,
order or order of dismissal and all other material in the possession
of that court in connection with the proceedings before the time when
the appeal is to be heard, or within a further time the appeal court
directs, and the material must be kept by the clerk of the court with
the records of the appeal court.




(2)

An appeal must not be dismissed by the appeal court merely because a
person other than the appellant failed to comply with the provisions
of this Act relating to appeals.






Appeal




109

(1)


If an appeal is taken under section 102 in respect of a conviction,
acquittal, sentence or order, sections 683 to 689, except section 686
(5), of the

Criminal Code

apply.




(2)

If an appeal court orders a new trial, it must be held before a court
other than the court that tried the defendant in the first instance,
unless the appeal court directs that the new trial be held before the
court that tried the defendant in the first instance.




(3)

Despite subsection (1), if an appeal is taken under section 102 and
if, because of the condition of the trial record in the court appealed
from or for any other reason, the appeal court, on application of the
defendant, the informant, the Attorney General or the Attorney
General's agent, is of the opinion that the interests of justice would
be better served by hearing and determining the appeal by holding a
new trial, the appeal court may order that the appeal be heard by way
of a new trial and sections 8, 56 to 65, 74 to 79 and 97 to 100 apply
except to the extent that they may be inconsistent with sections 102
to 114.




(4)

The appeal court may, for hearing and determining an appeal under
subsection (3), permit the evidence of any witness taken before the
justice to be read if that evidence has been authenticated in
accordance with section 540 of the

Criminal Code

, and if




(a)

the appellant and respondent consent,




(b)

the appeal court is satisfied that the attendance of the witness
cannot reasonably be obtained, or




(c)

because of the formal nature of the evidence or otherwise, the court
is satisfied that the opposite party will not be prejudiced.




(5)

Any evidence read under the authority of subsection (4) has the same
effect as if the witness had given the evidence before the appeal
court.




(6)

If an appeal is taken under subsection (3) against sentence, the
appeal court must, unless the sentence is one set by law, consider the
fitness of the sentence appealed against, and may, on evidence, if
any, it thinks fit to require or receive, by order




(a)

dismiss the appeal, or




(b)

vary the sentence within the limits prescribed by law for the offence
of which the defendant was convicted.




(7)

In making an order under subsection (6) (b), the appeal court may take
into account any time spent in custody by the defendant as a result of
the offence.




(8)

Under subsection (3), if an appeal is based on




(a)

an objection to an information or any process, judgment must not be
given in favour of the appellant for




(i)

an alleged defect in the information or process in substance or in
form, or




(ii)

any variance between the information or process and the evidence
adduced at the trial

unless it is shown that



(iii)

the objection was made at the trial, and




(iv)

an adjournment of the trial was refused, even though the variance
referred to in subparagraph (ii) had deceived or misled the appellant,
and




(b)

a defect in a conviction or order, judgment must not be given in
favour of the appellant, but the court must make an order curing the
defect.






Adjournment




110


The appeal court may adjourn the hearing of the appeal, as necessary.






Dismissal for want of prosecution




111


The appeal court may, on proof that notice of an appeal has been given
and that the appeal has not been proceeded with or has been abandoned,
order that the appeal be dismissed.






Costs




112

(1)


If an appeal is heard and determined, or is abandoned or is dismissed
for want of prosecution, the appeal court may make any order with
respect to costs that it considers just and reasonable.




(2)

Section 79 (3) applies to an order under subsection (1).






Imprisonment on appeal




113


Section 82 applies to an appeal to an appeal court or by way of stated
case.






Enforcement of conviction or order by appeal court




114

(1)


A conviction or order made by the appeal court may be enforced




(a)

in the same manner as if it had been made by a justice, or




(b)

by process of the appeal court.




(2)

If an appeal taken against a conviction or order adjudging payment of
a sum of money is dismissed, the justice who made the conviction or
order, or a justice for the same territorial division, may issue a
warrant of committal as if no appeal had been taken.




(3)

If a conviction or order made by an appeal court is to be enforced by
a justice, the clerk of the appeal court must send to the justice the
conviction or order and all writings relating to it, except the notice
of intention to appeal and any recognizance.






Application for stated case




115

(1)


A party to proceedings to which this Act applies or the Attorney
General may appeal against a conviction, order, determination or other
proceeding of a justice on the ground that it is




(a)

erroneous in point of law, or




(b)

in excess of jurisdiction


by applying to the justice to state a case setting out the facts as
found by the justice and the grounds on which the proceedings are
questioned.




(2)

An application to state a case must be made, and the case must be
stated within the period and in the manner directed by the Supreme
Court Civil Rules, if any.




(3)

If, for the purposes of subsection (2), there are no Supreme Court
Civil Rules that apply,




(a)

the application




(i)

must be in writing and be directed to the justice, and




(ii)

must be served on the justice by leaving with the justice a copy of it
within 30 clear days after the time when the adjudication that is
questioned was made,




(b)

the case must be stated and signed by the justice




(i)

within one month after the application was made, and




(ii)

after the recognizance referred to in section 116 has been entered
into,




(c)

the appellant must, within 15 clear days after receiving the stated
case,




(i)

if he or she is the informant, or the Attorney General or their
respective counsel or agent, cause a copy of the stated case to be
served on the defendant, or other persons the Supreme Court directs,
and transmit the stated case to the Supreme Court, and




(ii)

if he or she is the defendant, or other person appealing, cause a copy
of the stated case to be filed in the office of the Registrar of the
Supreme Court, and the registrar must at once send a copy to the
Attorney General, or as the Attorney General direct, and




(d)

the appellant must, if he or she is the informant, or the Attorney
General or their respective counsel or agent, file in the office of
the Registrar of the Supreme Court proof of service of the stated case
not later than 7 days after the last day for service of the stated
case.




(4)

The Supreme Court may, on application by the appellant, extend the
times referred to in the Supreme Court Civil Rules for the application
to state a case or for the stating of the case, or the times referred
to in subsection (3) (b) or (c), but an extension must not be granted
for more than 30 days.






Recognizance by appellant




116

(1)


The appellant must, at the time the appellant makes the application
and before a case is stated, enter into a recognizance, in Form 18,
before the justice or a justice who has the same jurisdiction, with or
without sureties and in an amount that the justice considers proper,
on the condition that the appellant prosecute the appeal without delay
and submit to the judgment of the Supreme Court.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply if the application is made by the
Attorney General or by counsel acting on behalf of the Attorney
General.




(3)

If an appellant is in custody, the justice must order that he or she
be released, if the appellant's recognizance contains a further
condition that the appellant will appear before that justice or
another justice within 10 days after the judgment of the Supreme Court
has been given, to abide the judgment, unless the judgment from which
the appeal is taken is reversed.




(4)

If the recognizance appears to the Supreme Court to be insufficient,
defective or invalid, the Supreme Court may permit the substitution of
a new and sufficient recognizance to be entered into before it, and
the substituted recognizance is, for all purposes, as effectual as if
it had been entered into at the time the appellant made the
application and before the case was stated.






Procedure when justice dies, quits office or is unable to act




117

(1)


If, pending an application for a stated case, the justice dies, quits
office or is unable to act, the appellant may, on giving notice to the
respondent, apply to the Supreme Court to state a case, and if a case
is then stated, it must be dealt with as if it had been stated by the
justice.




(2)

The appellant must, before a case is stated by the Supreme Court under
this section, enter into a recognizance under section 116.






Refusal to state a case




118

(1)


If a justice to whom an application to state a case is made considers
that the application is frivolous, the justice may refuse to state a
case, and must, at the request of the appellant, issue to the
appellant a certificate of the refusal.




(2)

The justice must not refuse to state a case if the application is made
by or at the direction of the Attorney General or counsel acting on
behalf of the Attorney General.






Compelling statement of case




119

(1)


If the justice refuses to state a case, the appellant may apply to the
Supreme Court, on an affidavit setting out the facts, for an order
directing the justice and the respondent to show cause why a case
should not be stated.




(2)

If an application is made under subsection (1), the Supreme Court may
make the order or dismiss the application, with or without payment of
costs by the appellant or the justice, as it considers appropriate in
the circumstances.




(3)

If an order is made under this section, the justice must, on being
served with a copy of it and on the appellant entering into a
recognizance under section 116 (1), state a case accordingly.






No prerogative writ




120


A writ of certiorari or other writ is not required to remove a
conviction, order or other determination in relation to which a case
is stated for the purpose of obtaining the judgment, determination or
opinion of the Supreme Court.






Powers of court hearing appeal




121

(1)


If a case is stated under this Act, the Supreme Court must hear and
determine the grounds of appeal, and may




(a)

affirm, reverse or modify the conviction, order or determination,




(b)

send the case back to the justice for amendment and deliver judgment
after it has been amended, or




(c)

remit the matter to the justice with the opinion of the Supreme Court,

and may make



(d)

any other order in relation to the matter that it considers proper,
and




(e)

any order with respect to costs that it considers proper and that
could be made by a justice.




(2)

Except as provided in section 119 (2), an order for the payment of
costs must not be made against the justice who states a case.






Enforcement of adjudication




122

(1)


If the Supreme Court has rendered its decision on a stated case, the
justice in relation to whose adjudication the case has been stated or
a justice exercising the same jurisdiction has the same authority to
enforce a conviction, order or determination that has been affirmed,
amended or made by the Supreme Court as the justice would have had if
a case had not been stated.




(2)

An order of the Supreme Court may be enforced by its own process.






Statement of case precludes appeal




123

(1)


A person for whom a case is stated in respect of an adjudication of a
justice from which the person is entitled to an appeal under section
102 must be taken to have abandoned all his or her rights of appeal
under that section.




(2)

If it is provided by law that no appeal lies from a conviction or
order, no appeal by way of a stated case lies from that conviction or
order.






Appeal to Court of Appeal on question of law




124

(1)


An appeal to the Court of Appeal may, with leave of a justice of that
court, be taken on any ground that involves a question of law alone
against a decision of




(a)

a court in respect of an appeal under section 102, or




(b)

the Supreme Court in respect of a stated case under section 121.




(2)

Sections 673 to 689 of the

Criminal Code

apply, with the necessary changes and so far as applicable, to an
appeal under this section, and the Court of Appeal may grant a new
trial.




(3)

Despite subsection (2), the Court of Appeal may make any order with
respect to costs that it considers proper in relation to an appeal
under this section.




(4)

The decision of the Court of Appeal may be enforced in the same manner
as if it had been made by the justice before whom the proceedings were
originally heard and determined.




(5)

The Rules of Court made by the Court of Appeal under section 482 of
the

Criminal Code

apply, with the necessary changes and so far as applicable, to an
appeal to the Court of Appeal under this Act.






Conviction or order not removable




125


A conviction or order must not be removed by certiorari if




(a)

an appeal was taken, whether or not the appeal has been carried to a
conclusion, or




(b)

the defendant appeared and pleaded and the merits were tried, and an
appeal might have been taken but the defendant did not appeal.






When conviction or order remedial




126

(1)


A conviction, order or warrant for enforcing a conviction or order
must not, on being removed by certiorari, be held to be invalid for an
irregularity, informality or insufficiency in it if the court before
which the question is raised, on perusal of the evidence, is satisfied
that




(a)

an offence of the nature described in the conviction, order or warrant
was committed,




(b)

there was jurisdiction to make the conviction or order or to issue the
warrant, and




(c)

the punishment imposed, if any, was not in excess of the punishment
that might lawfully have been imposed.




(2)

The court referred to in subsection (1) has the same powers to deal
with the proceedings in the manner that it considers proper that are
conferred on a court to which an appeal might have been taken.






Correcting punishment




127

(1)


If, in proceedings to which section 126 applies, the court is
satisfied that a person was properly convicted of an offence but the
punishment that was imposed is greater than the punishment that might
have lawfully been imposed, the court must




(a)

correct the sentence,




(i)

if the punishment is a fine, by imposing a fine that does not exceed
the maximum fine that might lawfully have been imposed,




(ii)

if the punishment is imprisonment, and the person has not served a
term of imprisonment under the sentence that is equal to or greater
than the term of imprisonment that might lawfully have been imposed,
by imposing a term of imprisonment that does not exceed the maximum
term of imprisonment that might lawfully have been imposed, or




(iii)

if the punishment is a fine and imprisonment, by imposing a punishment
in accordance with subparagraph (i) or (ii), as the case requires, or




(b)

remit the matter to the justice and direct the justice to impose a
punishment that is not greater than the punishment that may be
lawfully imposed.




(2)

If an adjudication is varied under section 126, or under subsection
(1) of this section, the conviction and warrant of committal, if any,
must be amended to conform with the adjudication as varied.




(3)

Any statement that appears in a conviction and is sufficient for the
conviction is sufficient for the information, summons, order or
warrant in which it appears in the proceedings.






Irregularities in sections 126 and 127




128


Without limiting sections 126 and 127, those sections are deemed to
apply if




(a)

the statement of the adjudication, or of any other matter or thing, is
in the past tense instead of in the present tense,




(b)

the punishment imposed is less than the punishment that might by law
have been imposed for the offence that appears by the evidence to have
been committed, or




(c)

there has been an omission to negative circumstances, the existence of
which would make the act complained of lawful, whether those
circumstances are stated by way of exception or otherwise in the
provision under which the offence is charged, or are stated in another
provision.






Warrant of committal not void for defect in form




129


A warrant of committal must not, on certiorari or habeas corpus, be
held to be void merely because of a defect in it if




(a)

it is alleged in the warrant that the defendant was convicted, and




(b)

there is a valid conviction to sustain the warrant.






No action against official when conviction, order or proceeding
quashed




130


If an application is made to quash a conviction, order or other
proceeding made or held by a justice on the ground that the justice
exceeded his or her jurisdiction, the court to which the application
is made may, in quashing the conviction, order or other proceeding,
order that civil proceedings must not be taken against the justice or
against any officer who acted under the conviction, order or other
proceeding, or under any warrant issued to enforce it.






Forms




131

(1)


The forms set out in the Schedule or forms of similar effect, varied
to suit the case, are deemed to be good, valid and sufficient in the
circumstances for which they are provided.




(2)

No justice is required to attach or affix a seal to any writing or
process that the justice is authorized to issue and in respect of
which a form is set out in the Schedule.






Power to make regulations




132

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may, on the recommendation of the
Attorney General, make regulations referred to in section 41 of the

Interpretation Act

.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may, on the recommendation of the Attorney General, make regulations
as follows:




(a)

defining an expression used in section 10.1 that is not otherwise
defined in this Act;




(a.1)

prescribing the form and content of the violation tickets issued under
section 14;




(a.2)

prescribing a form for the purpose of section 15.4 (1);




(a.3)

prescribing instructions that must be printed beside or on the reverse
side of the violation ticket that is given or mailed to or served on
the person who is alleged to have contravened the enactment;




(a.4)

only for the purposes of an agreement between the Province and Canada
under the

Contraventions Act

(Canada), exercising the authority under paragraphs (a.1), (a.2),
(a.3) and (g) in both the English and French languages;




(b)

respecting the electronic issuance, reception, creation, completion,
signing, identification, transmission, storage or reproduction, or
conversion from either paper or electronic format to the other format,
of




(i)

a violation ticket other than an eTicket, or




(ii)

a certificate of service of a violation ticket other than an
eCertificate of service;




(b.1)

respecting the issuance, reception, creation, completion,
identification, transmission, storage or reproduction of an eTicket or
an eCertificate of service;




(c)

designating any person or class of persons as an enforcement officer
and prescribing the enactments in respect of which a designated person
or class of persons may




(i)

issue a violation ticket under section 14 (1) (a) or under either
section 14 (1) (a) or (b),




(ii)

issue an appearance notice under section 39 (1),




(iii)

issue both a violation ticket and an appearance notice, or




(iv)

serve a copy of a violation ticket outside British Columbia under
section 14.1;




(d)

subject to subsection (4), prescribing, for the purposes of sections
14 and 16 (1), fines for a contravention of an enactment




(i)

if paid on or before the 30th day, and




(ii)

if paid after the 30th day


from the date of service under section 14 (5) or mailing under section
14 (6) of a violation ticket;




(e)

authorizing any word or expression on a violation ticket issued under
section 14 to designate an offence under an Act;




(e.1)

[Not enacted.]




(e.2)

prescribing offences, or offences and circumstances, for the purpose
of section 15.2 (3);




(f)

designating any person or class of persons for the purposes of section
82 (6);




(g)

prescribing the form and content of certificates and affidavits;




(h)

prescribing a schedule of costs for the purposes of section 263.1 (5)
(b) of the

Community Charter

, section 417 (5) (b) of the

Local Government Act

and section 333C (5) (b) of the

Vancouver Charter

.




(2.1)

For greater certainty, if one fine is prescribed under subsection (2)
(d), the fine is both




(a)

the fine that applies if paid on or before the 30th day from the date
of service under section 14 (5) or mailing under section 14 (6) of a
violation ticket, and




(b)

the fine that applies if paid after the 30th day from the date of
service under section 14 (5) or mailing under section 14 (6) of a
violation ticket.




(3)

[Repealed 2005-1-7.]




(4)

If a minimum or maximum fine is established by an enactment, the fine
prescribed under subsection (2) (d) must not be less than the minimum
or more than the maximum fine established by the enactment.




(5)

[Not in force. Repealed 2006-33-1.]




(6)

If regulations are made under subsection (2) (a.4), both language
versions are equally authoritative.






Application of
Criminal Code




133


If, in any proceeding, matter or thing to which this Act applies,
express provision has not been made in this Act or only partial
provision has been made, the provisions of the

Criminal Code

relating to offences punishable on summary conviction apply, with the
necessary changes and so far as applicable, as if its provisions were
enacted in and formed part of this Act.




Schedule





Form 1



(Offence Act)



Information To Obtain A Search Warrant



Canada:

Province of British Columbia:

County of



This is the information of
A.B.
, of ...................................................., in
[territorial division]
,
[occupation]
, called the "informant", taken before me.


The informant says that

[describe things to be searched for and offence in respect of which
search is to be made]

, and that he or she has reasonable grounds for believing that the
things or some part of them are in the
[dwelling house, etc.]
of
C.D.
, of ........................................................, in

[territorial division] [here add the grounds of belief, whatever they
may be]

.


The informant requests a search warrant be granted to search the
[dwelling house, etc.]
for the things.


Sworn before me,........................................................


....................
[month, day, year]
, at ..........................


................................................................


..................................................................
(Signature of Informant)


A .................................... in and for the Province of
British Columbia.





Form 2



(Offence Act)



Information



Canada:

Province of British Columbia:

County of



This is the information of
C.D
., of .....................................................
[occupation]
, called the "informant".


The informant says that

[if the informant has not personal knowledge, state that he or she has
reasonable and probable grounds to believe and does believe and state
the offence]

.


Sworn before me .................., ....................


................
[month, day, year]
, at ..................


.............................................................


.............................................................
(Signature of Informant)


A .................................... in and for the Province of
British Columbia.





Form 3



(Offence Act)



Warrant to Search



Canada:

Province of British Columbia:

County of



To the peace officers in
[territorial division]:


It appears on the oath of
A.B.
, of .........................................., that there are
reasonable grounds for believing that

[describe things to be searched for and offence in respect of which
search is to be made]

are in ...................................... at
..................................., called the "premises":


This is to authorize and require you between the hours of
[as the justice may direct]
to enter the premises and to search for the things and to bring them or
a report of them before me or another justice.


Dated .....................
[month, day, year]
, at ........................................

................................................

A ........................ in and for the Province of British Columbia





Form 4



(Offence Act)



Warrant to Search



Canada:

Province of British Columbia:

County of



To
A.B.,
and other peace officers in [
territorial division in which the warrant is intended for execution
]
:


It appears on the oath of
A.B.
, a peace officer in
[territorial division]
, that there are reasonable grounds for dispensing with an information
presented personally and in writing, and that there are reasonable
grounds for believing that

[describe things to be searched for and offence in respect of which
search is to be made]

are in.............................................. at
....................................., called "the premises":


This is to authorize and require you within 3 days of this warrant's
issuance between the hours of
[as the justice may direct]
to enter the premises and to search for and seize the things and to
report on the execution of the warrant as soon as practicable but within
a period not more than 7 days after the execution of the warrant to the
clerk of the court for the

[territorial division in which the warrant is intended for execution]

.


Issued at ..................................
[time]
on .........................................
[month, day, year]
, at ..............................................
[place]
.

................................................

A ............................. in and for the

Province of British Columbia


To the Occupant: This search warrant was issued by telephone or other
means of telecommunication. If you wish to know the basis on which this
warrant was issued, you may apply to the clerk of the court for the
territorial division in which the warrant was executed, at [address], to
obtain a copy of the information on oath.


You may obtain from the clerk of the court a copy of the report filed by
the peace officer who executed this warrant. That report will indicate
the things, if any, that were seized and the location where they are
being held.





Form 5



(Offence Act)



Warrant to Arrest a Person Charged with an Offence



Canada:

Province of British Columbia:

County of



To the peace officers in [
territorial division
]
:


A .B.
, of ............................,
[occupation]
, called the "defendant", has been charged that
[state the offence as in the information]
:


This is to command you, in Her Majesty's name, at once to arrest the
defendant and to bring the defendant before
........................................ or any justice in and for [
territorial division
], to answer to the charge and to be dealt with according to law.


Dated .....................
[month, day, year]
, at ........................................

...............................................

A ............................ in and for the Province of British
Columbia





Form 6



(Offence Act)




Warrant if Defendant Fails to Appear after Adjournment




Canada:

Province of British Columbia:

County of



To the peace officers in the
[territorial division]:


A .B.
, of .............................., called the "defendant", appeared
before me on ..........................
[month, day, year]
, on a charge that
[state the offence as in the information]
:


And the trial [
or
inquiry,
etc.
] was adjourned to ..............................
[month, day, year]
:


And the defendant failed to appear at the time and place to which the
trial [
or
inquiry,
etc.
] was adjourned:


This is to command you, in Her Majesty's name, at once to arrest the
defendant and to bring the defendant before me or any justice in and for
[territorial division]
, to answer to the charge and to be dealt with according to law.


Dated .............................
[month, day, year]
, at .....................................


.......................................................................


A .................................... in and for the Province of
British Columbia





Form 7



(Offence Act)



Subpoena to a Witness



Canada:

Province of British Columbia:

County of



To
E.F.
, of ..................................., [occupation]:


A.B.
has been charged that
[state offence as in the information]
, and it has been made to appear that you are likely to give material
evidence for the prosecution
[or the defence]
:


This is to command you to attend before
[name of justice]
, on ..................
[month, day, year]
, at ....................... [time (AM or PM)], at
............................................................., to give
evidence concerning the charge.*


Dated .................
[month, day, year]
, at .........................................


.............................................................................


A ........................................... in and for the Province of
British Columbia


*

If a witness is required to produce documents add the following:

and to bring with you any writings in your possession or under your
control that relate to the charge, and more particularly the following
[specify any writings required]
.





Form 8



(Offence Act)



Warrant for Witness



Canada:

Province of British Columbia:

County of



To the peace officers in
[territorial division]:


A.B.
, of ............................................., has been charged
that
[state offence as in the information]
:


And it has been made to appear that
E.F.
, ................................................., called the
"witness", is likely to give material evidence for the prosecution
[or the defence]
, and that* ..........................................:


This is to command you, in Her Majesty's name, to bring the witness
before
[name of justice]
on ...........................
[month, day, year]
, at ....................... [time (AM or PM)], at
.........................................................., to give
evidence concerning the charge.


Dated ..........................
[month, day, year]
, at ....................................................

.................................................

A.................................. in and for the Province of British
Columbia

* Insert whichever of the following is appropriate:

(a)
E.F.
will not attend unless compelled to do so.


(b)
E.F.
is evading service of a subpoena.


(c)
E.F.
was served with a subpoena and has neglected to attend at the time and
place appointed in it
[or to remain in attendance]
.


(d)
E.F.
was bound by a recognizance to attend and give evidence and has
neglected to attend
[or to remain in attendance]
.





Form 9



(Offence Act)



Warrant to Arrest an Absconding Witness



Canada:

Province of British Columbia:

County of



To the peace officers in
[territorial division]:


A.B.
, of ............................................................, has
been charged that [state offence as in the information]:


And I am satisfied by information in writing and under oath that
C.D.
, of .................., called the "witness", is bound by recognizance
to give evidence on the trial of the defendant on the charge, and that
the witness has absconded
[or is about to abscond]
:


This is to command you, in Her Majesty's name, to arrest the witness and
bring the witness before
[the justice before whom the witness is bound to appear]
, to be dealt with according to law.


Dated ..........................
[month, day, year]
, at ............................................


.......................................................


A .................................... in and for the Province of
British Columbia





Form 10



(Offence Act)



Warrant Remanding a Prisoner



Canada:

Province of British Columbia:

County of



To the peace officers in
[territorial division]:


You are commanded at once to convey to the
[prison]
at ............................................. the persons named in
the following schedule, each of whom has been remanded to the time
mentioned in the schedule:




Person Charged
Offence
Remanded to —



.................................................

...........................................

..................................................





And I command you, the keeper of the prison, to receive each of the
persons into your custody in the prison and keep each person safely
until the day when his or her remand expires and then to have each
person before me or any other justice at ......................... at
.................. [time (AM or PM)] to answer the charge and to be
dealt with according to law, unless you are otherwise ordered before
that time.


Dated .........................
[month, day, year]
, at ................................................


.........................................................


A ................................. in and for the Province of British
Columbia





Form 11



(Offence Act)



Warrant of Committal on Conviction



Canada:

Province of British Columbia:

County of



To the peace officers in
[territorial division]
and to the keeper of the
[prison]
at
.........................:


A.B.
, called the "defendant", was convicted today on a charge that
[state offence as in the information]
, and it was adjudged that the defendant for his or her
offence*...................................:


You are commanded, in Her Majesty's name, to take the defendant and
convey the defendant safely to the
[prison]
at ..................................................., and deliver the
defendant to the keeper, together with the following:


You, the keeper, are commanded to receive the defendant into custody in
the prison and imprison the defendant there.


Dated .....................
[month, day, year]
, at ............................................


...........................................................


A ................................. in and for the Province of British
Columbia


* Use whichever of the following forms of sentence is applicable:


(a) be imprisoned in the
[prison]
at ........................... for the term of ......................:


(b) forfeit and pay the sum of $..........................., to be
applied according to law, and also pay to
................................. the sum of
$............................, in respect of costs, and in default of
payment of the sums at once
[or within a time set, if any]
be imprisoned in the
[prison]
at .............................. for the term of
......................, unless the sums and costs and charges of the
committal and of conveying the defendant to the prison are paid:


(c) be imprisoned in
[prison]
at .............................. for the term of ..................,
and in addition
[as in (b) above]
.





Form 12



(Offence Act)




Warrant of Committal on an Order for the Payment of Money




Canada:

Province of British Columbia:

County of



To the peace officers
[territorial division]
and to the keeper of the
[prison]
at
..............................:


A.B.
, called the "defendant", was tried on an information alleging that
[set out matter of complaint]
, and it was ordered that
[set out the order made]
, and in default that the defendant be imprisoned in the
[prison]
at ..................................... for a term of
....................:


I command you, in Her Majesty's name, to take the defendant and convey
the defendant safely to the
[prison]
at .........................................., and deliver the defendant
to the keeper together with the following:


I command you, the keeper of the prison, to receive the defendant into
your custody in the prison and imprison the defendant there for the term
of ....................., unless the amounts and the costs and charges
of the committal and of conveying the defendant to the prison are paid.


Dated ....................
[month, day, year]
, at .........................................


..........................................................


A ..................................... in and for the Province of
British Columbia





Form 13

[Repealed 2012-1-10.]




Form 14



(Offence Act)



Warrant of Committal for Contempt



Canada:

Province of British Columbia:

County of



To the peace officers in
[territorial division]
and to the keeper of the
[prison]
at
.........................


E.F.
, of ..................................., called the "defaulter", was,
on ....................
[month, day, year]
, at ...................................................., convicted
before ................................................. for contempt in
that he or she did not attend before
.................................... to give evidence on the trial of a
charge that
[state offence as in the information]
against
A.B.
, of ..............................., although subpoenaed

[or bound by recognizance to appear and give evidence in that behalf]

and did not show sufficient excuse for his or her default:


On conviction it was adjudged that the defaulter
[set out punishment adjudged]
:


The defaulter has not paid the amounts adjudged to be paid
[delete if not applicable]
:


This is to command you, in Her Majesty's name, to take the defaulter and
convey the defaulter safely to the prison at
....................................... and to deliver the defaulter to
the keeper, together with the following:


I command you, the keeper, to receive the defaulter into your custody in
the prison and imprison the defaulter there.*


Dated .....................
[month, day, year]
, at ........................................

................................................
A ..................................... in and for the
Province of British Columbia
* Insert whichever of the following is applicable:
(a) for the term of .....................:

(b) for the term of ................, unless the sums and the costs and
charges of the committal and of conveying the defaulter to the prison
are paid; or


(c) for the term of ........................... and for the term of
[if consecutive so state]
, unless the sums and costs and charges of the committal and of
conveying the defaulter to the prison are paid.





Form 15



(Offence Act)




Warrant of Committal in Default of Payment

of Costs of an Appeal




Canada:

Province of British Columbia:

County of



To the peace officers of
[territorial division]
and to the keeper of the
[prison]
at
.........................


It appears that on the hearing of an appeal before the
[set out justice]
, it was adjudged that
A.B.
, of .................................., called the "defaulter", should
pay to the clerk of the court the sum of $........................, in
respect of costs:


And the clerk of the court has certified that the defaulter has not paid
the sum within the time limited:


I command you, in Her Majesty's name, to take the defaulter and safely
convey the defaulter to the
[prison]
at ............................................ and deliver the
defaulter to the keeper, together with the following:


I command you, the keeper, to receive the defaulter into your custody in
the prison and imprison the defaulter for the term of
......................., unless the sum and the costs of the committal
and of conveying the defaulter to prison are paid.


Dated .....................
[month, day, year]
, at .............................................

..................................................

A ............................... in and for the Province of British
Columbia





Form 16



(Offence Act)



Endorsement of Warrant



Canada:

Province of British Columbia:

County of



Under an application made today to me, I authorize the execution of this
warrant in
[territorial division]
.


Dated .....................
[month, day, year]
, at ............................................

.................................................

A ................................ in and for the Province of British
Columbia





Form 17



(Offence Act)



Endorsement of Warrant



Canada:

Province of British Columbia:

County of



To the peace officers in the
[territorial division]
:


I authorize the release of the defendant under section 38.


Dated ........................
[month, day, year]
, at ..................................

..................................................

A ................................ in and for the Province of British
Columbia





Form 18



(Offence Act)



Recognizance



Canada:

Province of British Columbia:

County of



Today the persons named in the following schedule personally came before
me and separately acknowledged themselves to owe to Her Majesty the
Queen the several amounts set opposite their respective names, namely:




Name
Address
Occupation
Amount



A.B.







C.D.







E.F.








to be made and levied of their individual property, respectively, to the
use of Her Majesty the Queen, if
A.B.
fails in the following condition:*


Taken and acknowledged before me on .................
[month, day, year]
, at ........................

.....................................................

A.................................. in and for the Province of British
Columbia


* Use whichever of the following conditions is appropriate:


(a) A.B. has been charged [state offence as in the information]: The
condition of the above written recognizance is that if
A.B.
appears before the
[state justice]
on ...................
[month, day, year]
, at ................. [(AM or PM)], at [place], to answer to the charge
and to be dealt with according to law, the recognizance is void,
otherwise it stands in full force.


(b) The condition of the above written recognizance is that if
A.B.
keeps the peace and is of good behaviour for the term of
.......................................................................
beginning on ............................................, the
recognizance is void, otherwise it stands in full force.


(c) The condition of the above written recognizance is that if
A.B.
appears and receives judgment when called on during the term of
................................ beginning on ....................., and
during that term keeps the peace and is of good behaviour
[add special conditions as authorized and applicable]
, the recognizance is void, otherwise it stands in full force.


(d)
A.B.
, called the "appellant", has appealed against his or her conviction
[or against an order or by way of stated case]
in respect of the following matter

[set out offence, subject matter, of order or question of law]

:


The condition of the above written recognizance is that if the appellant
personally appears at the sittings of the court at which the appeal
[or stated case]
is to be heard and abides the judgment of the court, the recognizance is
void, otherwise it stands in full force.





Form 19



(Offence Act)



Conviction



Canada:

Province of British Columbia:

County of



On ......................
[month, day, year]
,
A.B.
called the "defendant", was tried under the
Offence Act
on the charge that
[state fully the offence of which defendant was convicted]
, was convicted of the offence, and the following punishment was imposed
on the defendant, namely:*


Dated ...................
[month, day, year]
, at ...............................................


.......................................................


A .................................. in and for the Province of British
Columbia


* Use whichever of the following forms of sentence is applicable:


(a) That the defendant be imprisoned in the
[prison]
at .................................... for the term of
.........................................


(b) That the defendant forfeit and pay the sum of
$..............................., to be applied according to law, and
also pay to ....................................................... the
sum of $.................... in respect of costs, and in default of
payment of the sums at once
[or within a time set, if any]
to be imprisoned in the
[prison]
at .................................. for the term of
........................, unless the sums and costs and charges of the
committal and of conveying the defendant to the prison are paid.


(c) That the defendant be imprisoned in the
[prison]
at ............................................ for the term of
......................, and in addition forfeit and pay the sum of
$........................., to be applied according to law, and also pay
to the sum of $ ...................... in respect of costs, and in
default of payment of the sums at once
[or within a time set, if any]
to be imprisoned in the
[prison]
at ...................... for the term of ..................., unless
the sums and costs and charges of the committal and of conveying the
defendant to the prison are paid.





Form 20



(Offence Act)



Order Against a Defendant



Canada:

Province of British Columbia:

County of



On .............................
[month, day, year]
,
A.B.
, of .........................................., was tried on an
information alleging that [set out matter of complaint], and it was
ordered and adjudged that [set out the order made].


Dated .....................
[month, day, year]
, at ..........................................

.................................................

A .................................. in and for the Province of British
Columbia





Form 21



(Offence Act)



Conviction for Contempt



Canada:

Province of British Columbia:

County of



On .........................
[month, day, year]
, at ....................................................., in
[territorial division]
,
E.F.
, of ............................................, called the
"defaulter", is convicted by me for contempt in that he or she did not
attend before
[name of justice]
to give evidence on the trial of a charge that
[state fully offence with which defendant was charged]
, although subpoenaed
[or bound by recognizance to attend to give evidence,]
and has not shown before me sufficient excuse for his or her default:


I adjudge the defaulter for his or her default

[set out punishment as authorized and determined in accordance with
section 52]

.


Dated ........................
[month, day, year]
, at .........................................


.......................................................


A ................................... in and for the Province of British
Columbia





Form 22



(Offence Act)



Order for Discharge of a Person in Custody



Canada:

Province of British Columbia:

County of



To the keeper of the
[prison]
at ...................................:


I direct you to release
E.F.
, detained by you under a warrant of committal
[or order]
dated ..........................
[month, day, year]
, if
E.F.
is detained by you for no other cause.

...................................................

A .................................. in and for the Province of British
Columbia





Form 23



(Offence Act)



Certificate of Nonpayment of Costs of Appeal

In the court of ....................................

[Style of proceeding.]


I certify that
A.B.
, the appellant
[or respondent]
, in this appeal, having been ordered to pay costs in the sum of $
........................., has failed to pay the costs within the time
limited for payment.


Dated .......................
[month, day, year]
, at ........................................


...................................................................


Clerk of the
............................
Court
of..............................

[Seal.]




Form 24



(Offence Act)



Jailer's Receipt to Peace Officer for Prisoner


I certify that I have received from
X.Y.
, a peace officer for
[territorial division]
, one
A.B
., together with a warrant
[or order]
issued by
[set out court or justice]
.*


Dated ......................
[month, day, year]
, at .............................................


..........................................................


Keeper of
[prison]
.

*Add a statement of the condition of the prisoner.




Form 25


(Offence Act)


Probation Order


Canada:


Province of British Columbia:


County of


On ..........................
[month, day, year]
,
.......................................................................
[here insert name of defendant]
, called the "defendant", of
........................................................
[here insert city of residence of defendant]
, was convicted of the offence of
........................................
.............................................................................

[here state the offence to which the defendant pleaded guilty or for
which the defendant was convicted or found guilty, as the case may be]

, contrary to section ..............
[here state the section number]
of the ............................................. Act
[here name the Act under which the defendant was convicted]
.


On ..........................
[month, day, year]
, at ...............................................................
[here insert location of courthouse]
,
[check all that apply]



instead of sentencing the defendant to punishment, the court suspended
the passing of sentence and directed that the defendant be released on
the conditions set out below.



in addition to imposing on the defendant



a fine



a term of imprisonment,


the court directed that the defendant comply with the conditions set out
below.



the court imposed on the defendant a term of imprisonment and directed
that the defendant



serve the sentence of imprisonment intermittently



comply with the conditions set out below when the defendant is not in
custody during the period the sentence is being served



comply with the conditions set out below on the defendant's release from
custody after the defendant completes the sentence.


The court ordered that for the period of
......................................
[here insert term of probation order]
, starting on ....................................

[here insert the date (month, day, year) of the order or, if
compliance will start on a different date, insert or describe that
date]

, the defendant must

1. keep the peace and be of good behaviour,

2. appear before the court as and when required to do so by a justice,
and


3. notify the justice or a person designated by the justice


a. in advance of any change in the defendant's name or address, and


b. promptly of any change in the defendant's employment or occupation.


And, in addition, the defendant must

[here state any additional conditions imposed under section 89.2 of
the Offence Act]



4.
...........................................................................


5.
...........................................................................


6.
...........................................................................


[etc.]
............................................................................




Signed by:



.................................................................

[the justice must sign here]



.................................................................

[here print the name of the justice]




.................................................................

[the defendant must sign here]



.................................................................

[here print the name of the defendant]








Tariff of Fees







Fees and Allowances That May be Charged by Justices




1
Warrant where summons issued in first instance
5.00





Fees and Allowances That May Be Allowed to Witnesses




2
Each day attending trial
4.00


3

Travelling to attend trial, each way, for each kilometre

.062





Fees and Allowances That May Be Allowed to Interpreters




4
Each half day attending trial
2.50


5

Actual living expenses when away from ordinary place of residence,
not to exceed per day

10.00


6

Travelling to attend trial, each way, for each kilometre

.062





