




Ombudsperson Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 340






Definition




1


In this Act,
"authority"
means an authority set out in the Schedule or added under
section 35 and includes members and employees of the authority.






Appointment of Ombudsperson




2

(1)


On the recommendation of the Legislative Assembly, the Lieutenant
Governor must appoint as an officer of the Legislature an Ombudsperson
to exercise the powers and perform the duties assigned to the
Ombudsperson under this Act.




(2)

The Legislative Assembly must not recommend a person to be appointed
Ombudsperson unless a special committee of the Legislative Assembly
has unanimously recommended to the Legislative Assembly that the
person be appointed.






Term of office




3

(1)


The Ombudsperson must be appointed for a term of 6 years and may be
reappointed in the manner provided in section 2 for further
6 year terms.




(2)

The Ombudsperson must not hold another office or engage in other
employment.






Remuneration




4

(1)


The Ombudsperson is entitled to be paid, out of the consolidated
revenue fund, a salary equal to the salary paid to the chief judge of
the Provincial Court.




(2)

The Ombudsperson must be reimbursed for reasonable travelling and out
of pocket expenses necessarily incurred in discharging duties.






Pension




5

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), the Public Service Pension Plan, continued
under the

Public Sector Pension Plans Act

, applies to the Ombudsperson.




(2)

When calculating the amount of a pension under the Public Service
Pension Plan, each year of service as Ombudsperson must be counted as
1 1/2 years of pensionable service.




(3)

[Repealed 2003-62-3.]






Resignation, removal or suspension




6

(1)


The Ombudsperson may at any time resign the office by written notice




(a)

to the Speaker of the Legislative Assembly, or




(b)

to the Clerk of the Legislative Assembly if there is no Speaker or if
the Speaker is absent from British Columbia.




(2)

On the recommendation of the Legislative Assembly, based on cause or
incapacity, the Lieutenant Governor must, in accordance with the
recommendation,




(a)

suspend the Ombudsperson, with or without salary, or




(b)

remove the Ombudsperson from office.




(3)

On the recommendation of the Legislative Assembly the Lieutenant
Governor must appoint an acting Ombudsperson if




(a)

the Ombudsperson is suspended or removed,




(b)

the office of Ombudsperson becomes vacant for a reason other than by
operation of subsection (4) (c), or




(c)

the Ombudsperson is temporarily ill or temporarily absent for another
reason.




(4)

The appointment of an acting Ombudsperson under subsection (3)
terminates




(a)

on the appointment of a new Ombudsperson under section 2,




(b)

at the end of the period of suspension of the Ombudsperson,




(c)

immediately after the expiry of 30 sitting days after the commencement
of the next session of the Legislature, or




(d)

on the return to office of the Ombudsperson from the temporary illness
or absence

whichever occurs first.



(5)

If the Legislature is not sitting and is not ordered to sit within the
next 5 days, the Lieutenant Governor in Council may suspend the
Ombudsperson from office, with or without salary, for cause or
incapacity, but the suspension does not continue in force after the
expiry of 30 sitting days.






Appointment of acting Ombudsperson without recommendation of
Legislature




7

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may appoint an acting Ombudsperson




(a)

if




(i)

the Ombudsperson is suspended or removed, or




(ii)

the office of Ombudsperson becomes vacant for a reason other than by
operation of subsection (2) (c),


when the Legislature is sitting but it does not make a recommendation
under section 2 or 6 (3) before the end of that sitting or before an
adjournment of the Legislature exceeding 5 days,




(b)

if the Ombudsperson is suspended or the office of Ombudsperson becomes
vacant when the Legislature is not sitting and is not ordered to sit
within the next 5 days, or




(c)

if the Ombudsperson is temporarily ill or temporarily absent for
another reason.




(2)

The appointment of an acting Ombudsperson under subsection (1)
terminates




(a)

on the appointment of a new Ombudsperson under section 2,




(b)

at the end of the period of suspension of the Ombudsperson,




(c)

immediately after the expiry of 30 sitting days after the day on which
the Ombudsperson was appointed,




(d)

on the appointment of an acting Ombudsperson under section 6 (3), or




(e)

on the return to office of the Ombudsperson from temporary illness or
absence,

whichever occurs first.





Staff




8

(1)


In accordance with the

Public Service Act

, the Ombudsperson may appoint employees necessary to perform the
duties of the office.




(2)

For the purposes of the application of the

Public Service Act

to this section, the Ombudsperson is a deputy minister.




(3)

The Ombudsperson may make a special report to the Legislative Assembly
if the Ombudsperson believes




(a)

the amounts and establishment provided for the office of the
Ombudsperson in the estimates, or




(b)

the services provided to the Ombudsperson by the BC Public Service
Agency


are inadequate to enable the Ombudsperson to fulfill the duties of the
office.






Confidentiality




9

(1)


Before beginning to perform the duties of the office, the Ombudsperson
must take an oath before the Clerk of the Legislative Assembly




(a)

to faithfully and impartially exercise the powers and perform the
duties of the office, and




(b)

not to divulge any information received under this Act, except if
permitted by this Act.




(2)

A person on the staff of the Ombudsperson must, before beginning to
perform duties, take an oath before the Ombudsperson not to divulge
any information received under this Act except if permitted by this
Act.




(3)

For the purposes of subsection (2) the Ombudsperson is a commissioner
for taking affidavits for British Columbia.




(4)

The Ombudsperson and every person on the staff of the Ombudsperson
must, subject to this Act, maintain confidentiality in respect of all
matters that come to their knowledge in performing their duties under
this Act.




(5)

The Ombudsperson or a person holding an office or appointment under
the Ombudsperson must not give or be compelled to give evidence in a
court or in proceedings of a judicial nature in respect of anything
coming to the knowledge of the Ombudsperson or the person in the
exercise of duties under this Act, except




(a)

to enforce the Ombudsperson's powers of investigation,




(b)

to enforce compliance with this Act, or




(c)

with respect to a trial of a person for perjury.




(6)

An investigation under this Act must be conducted in private unless
the Ombudsperson considers that there are special circumstances in
which public knowledge is essential in order to further the
investigation.




(7)

Despite this section, the Ombudsperson may disclose or authorize a
member of the Ombudsperson's staff to disclose a matter that, in the
opinion of the Ombudsperson, is necessary to




(a)

further an investigation,




(b)

prosecute an offence under this Act, or




(c)

establish grounds for conclusions and recommendations made in a report
under this Act.






Powers and duties of Ombudsperson in administrative matters




10

(1)


The Ombudsperson, with respect to a matter of administration, on a
complaint or on the Ombudsperson's own initiative, may investigate




(a)

a decision or recommendation made,




(b)

an act done or omitted, or




(c)

a procedure used


by an authority that aggrieves or may aggrieve a person.




(2)

The powers and duties conferred on the Ombudsperson may be exercised
and performed despite a provision in an Act to the effect that




(a)

a decision, recommendation or act is final,




(b)

no appeal lies in respect of it, or




(c)

a proceeding or decision of the authority whose decision,
recommendation or act it is must not be challenged, reviewed, quashed
or called into question.




(3)

The Legislative Assembly or any of its committees may at any time
refer a matter to the Ombudsperson for investigation and report.




(4)

The Ombudsperson must




(a)

investigate the matter referred under subsection (3), so far as it is
within the Ombudsperson's jurisdiction and subject to any special
directions, and




(b)

report back as the Ombudsperson thinks fit.




(5)

Sections 23 to 26 do not apply in respect of an investigation or
report made under subsection (4).






Jurisdiction of Ombudsperson




11

(1)


This Act does not authorize the Ombudsperson to investigate a
decision, recommendation, act or omission




(a)

in respect of which there is under an enactment a right of appeal or
objection or a right to apply for a review on the merits of the case
to a court or tribunal constituted under an enactment, until after
that right of appeal, objection or application has been exercised or
until after the time limit for the exercise of that right has expired,
or




(b)

of a person acting as a solicitor for an authority or acting as
counsel to an authority in relation to a proceeding.




(2)

The Ombudsperson may investigate conduct occurring before the
commencement of this Act.




(3)

If a question arises about the Ombudsperson's jurisdiction to
investigate a case or class of cases under this Act, the Ombudsperson
may apply to the Supreme Court for a declaratory order determining the
question.






Complaint to Ombudsperson




12

(1)


A complaint under this Act may be made by a person or group of
persons.




(2)

A complaint must be in writing.




(3)

If a communication written by or on behalf of a person confined in a
federal or Provincial correctional institution or to a hospital or
facility operated by or under the direction of an authority, or by a
person in the custody of another person for any reason, is addressed
to the Ombudsperson the person in charge of the institution, hospital
or facility in which the writer is confined or the person having
custody of the writer must immediately, mail or forward the
communication, unopened, to the Ombudsperson.




(4)

A communication from the Ombudsperson to a person confined or in
custody as described in subsection (3) must be forwarded to that
person in a similar manner.




(5)

Subsections (3) and (4) apply despite any other enactment.






Refusal to investigate




13


The Ombudsperson may refuse to investigate or cease investigating a
complaint if, in the opinion of the Ombudsperson, any of the following
apply:




(a)

the complainant or person aggrieved knew or ought to have known of the
decision, recommendation, act or omission to which the complaint
refers more than one year before the complaint was received by the
Ombudsperson;




(b)

the subject matter of the complaint primarily affects a person other
than the complainant and the complainant does not have sufficient
personal interest in it;




(c)

the law or existing administrative procedure provides a remedy
adequate in the circumstances for the person aggrieved, and, if the
person aggrieved has not used the remedy, there is no reasonable
justification for the failure to do so;




(d)

the complaint is frivolous, vexatious, not made in good faith or
concerns a trivial matter;




(e)

having regard to all the circumstances, further investigation is not
necessary in order to consider the complaint;




(f)

in the circumstances, investigation would not benefit the complainant
or person aggrieved;




(g)

the complainant has abandoned the complaint




(i)

by failing to advise the Ombudsperson of a current address or
telephone number at which the Ombudsperson can contact the
complainant, or




(ii)

by failing to respond after a reasonable number of attempts by the
Ombudsperson to contact the complainant in writing or verbally;




(h)

the complaint is withdrawn by the complainant by notice to the
Ombudsperson;




(i)

the complaint is settled under section 14.






Ombudsperson to notify authority




14

(1)


If the Ombudsperson investigates a matter, the Ombudsperson must
notify the authority affected and any other person the Ombudsperson
considers appropriate to notify in the circumstances.




(2)

At any time during or after an investigation the Ombudsperson may
consult with an authority to attempt to settle the complaint, or for
any other purpose.




(3)

If before making a decision respecting a matter being investigated the
Ombudsperson receives a request for consultation from the authority,
the Ombudsperson must consult with the authority.






Power to obtain information




15

(1)


The Ombudsperson may receive and obtain information from the persons
and in the manner the Ombudsperson considers appropriate, and in the
Ombudsperson's discretion may conduct hearings.




(2)

Without restricting subsection (1), but subject to this Act, the
Ombudsperson may do one or more of the following:




(a)

at any reasonable time enter, remain on and inspect all of the
premises occupied by an authority, talk in private with any person
there and otherwise investigate matters within the Ombudsperson's
jurisdiction;




(b)

require a person to furnish information or produce, at a time and
place the Ombudsperson specifies, a document or thing in the person's
possession or control that relates to an investigation, whether or not
that person is a past or present member or employee of an authority
and whether or not the document or thing is in the custody or under
the control of an authority;




(c)

make copies of information furnished or a document or thing produced
under this section;




(d)

summon before the Ombudsperson and examine on oath any person who the
Ombudsperson believes is able to give information relevant to an
investigation, whether or not that person is a complainant or a member
or employee of an authority, and for that purpose may administer an
oath;




(e)

receive and accept, on oath or otherwise, evidence the Ombudsperson
considers appropriate, whether or not it would be admissible in a
court.




(3)

If the authority requests the return of a document or thing obtained
under subsection (2), the Ombudsperson must return it to the
authority within 48 hours after receiving the request, but the
Ombudsperson may again require its production in accordance with this
section.






Protection




16


A person must not discharge, suspend, expel, intimidate, coerce,
evict, impose any pecuniary or other penalty on or otherwise
discriminate against a person because that person complains, gives
evidence or otherwise assists in the investigation, inquiry or
reporting of a complaint or other proceeding under this Act.






Opportunity to make representations




17


If it appears to the Ombudsperson that there may be sufficient grounds
for making a report or recommendation under this Act that may
adversely affect an authority or person, the Ombudsperson must, before
deciding the matter,




(a)

inform the authority or person of the grounds, and




(b)

give the authority or person the opportunity to make representations,
either orally or in writing at the discretion of the Ombudsperson.






Attorney General may restrict investigative powers




18

(1)


The Ombudsperson must not enter any premises and must not require any
information or answer to be given or any document or thing to be
produced if the Attorney General certifies that entering the premises,
giving the information, answering the question or producing the
document or thing might




(a)

interfere with or impede the investigation or detection of an offence,




(b)

result in or involve the disclosure of deliberations of the Executive
Council, or




(c)

result in or involve the disclosure of proceedings of the Executive
Council or a committee of it, relating to matters of a secret or
confidential nature and that the disclosure would be contrary or
prejudicial to the public interest.




(2)

The Ombudsperson must report each certificate of the Attorney General
to the Legislative Assembly not later than in the Ombudsperson's next
annual report.






Application of other laws respecting disclosure




19

(1)


Subject to section 18, a rule of law that authorizes or requires the
withholding of a document or thing, or the refusal to disclose a
matter in answer to a question, on the ground that the production or
disclosure would be injurious to the public interest does not apply to
production of the document or thing or the disclosure of the matter to
the Ombudsperson.




(2)

Subject to section 18 and to subsections (4) and (5), a person who is
bound by an enactment to maintain confidentiality in relation to or
not to disclose any matter must not be required to supply any
information to or answer any question put by the Ombudsperson in
relation to that matter, or to produce to the Ombudsperson any
document or thing relating to it, if compliance with that requirement
would be in breach of the obligation of confidentiality or
nondisclosure.




(3)

Subject to section 18 but despite subsection (2), if a person is bound
to maintain confidentiality in respect of a matter only because of an
oath under the

Public Service Act

or a rule of law referred to in subsection (1), the person must
disclose the information, answer questions and produce documents or
things on the request of the Ombudsperson.




(4)

Subject to section 18, after receiving a complainant's consent in
writing, the Ombudsperson may require a person described in
subsection (2) to, and that person must, supply information,
answer any question or produce any document or thing required by the
Ombudsperson that relates only to the complainant.




(5)

If the Ombudsperson is investigating a matter referred to the
Ombudsperson under section 10 (3),




(a)

subsection (2) of this section does not apply, and




(b)

despite any other enactment, the Ombudsperson may exercise any power
under section 15 in order to investigate and report on the matter
referred to the Ombudsperson under section 10 (3).






Privileged information




20

(1)


Subject to section 19, a person has the same privileges in relation to
giving information, answering questions or producing documents or
things to the Ombudsperson as the person would have with respect to a
proceeding in a court.




(2)

Except on the trial of a person for perjury or for an offence under
this Act, evidence given by a person in proceedings before the
Ombudsperson and evidence of the existence of the proceedings is
inadmissible against that person in a court or in any other proceeding
of a judicial nature.






Witness and information expenses




21

(1)


A person examined under section 15 (2) (d) is entitled to the same
fees, allowances and expenses as if the person were a witness in the
Supreme Court.




(2)

If a person incurs expenses in complying with a request of the
Ombudsperson for production of documents or other information, the
Ombudsperson may reimburse that person for reasonable expenses
incurred that are not covered under subsection (1).






If investigation is refused or discontinued or complaint is not
substantiated




22

(1)


If the Ombudsperson decides




(a)

not to investigate or further investigate a complaint under section
13, or




(b)

at the conclusion of an investigation, that the complaint has not been
substantiated,

the Ombudsperson must



(c)

record the decision in writing, and




(d)

as soon as is reasonable, notify both the complainant and the
authority of the decision and the reasons for it.




(2)

The reasons provided under subsection (1) (d) with respect to a
decision referred to in subsection (1) (b) must be in writing.




(3)

The Ombudsperson may indicate with the notification under subsection
(1) (d) any other recourse that may be available to the complainant.






Procedure after investigation




23

(1)


If, after completing an investigation, the Ombudsperson is of the
opinion that




(a)

a decision, recommendation, act or omission that was the subject
matter of the investigation was




(i)

contrary to law,




(ii)

unjust, oppressive or improperly discriminatory,




(iii)

made, done or omitted under a statutory provision or other rule of law
or practice that is unjust, oppressive or improperly discriminatory,




(iv)

based wholly or partly on a mistake of law or fact or on irrelevant
grounds or consideration,




(v)

related to the application of arbitrary, unreasonable or unfair
procedures, or




(vi)

otherwise wrong,




(b)

in doing or omitting an act or in making or acting on a decision or
recommendation, an authority




(i)

did so for an improper purpose,




(ii)

failed to give adequate and appropriate reasons in relation to the
nature of the matter, or




(iii)

was negligent or acted improperly, or




(c)

there was unreasonable delay in dealing with the subject matter of the
investigation,


the Ombudsperson must report that opinion and the reasons for it to
the authority and may make the recommendation the Ombudsperson
considers appropriate.




(2)

Without restricting subsection (1), the Ombudsperson may recommend
that




(a)

a matter be referred to the appropriate authority for further
consideration,




(b)

an act be remedied,




(c)

an omission or delay be rectified,




(d)

a decision or recommendation be cancelled or changed,




(e)

reasons be given,




(f)

a practice, procedure or course of conduct be altered,




(g)

an enactment or other rule of law be reconsidered, or




(h)

any other steps be taken.






Authority to notify Ombudsperson of steps taken




24

(1)


If a recommendation is made under section 23, the Ombudsperson may
request the authority




(a)

to notify the Ombudsperson within a specified time of the steps that
have been or are proposed to be taken to give effect to the
recommendation, or




(b)

if no steps have been or are proposed to be taken, the reasons for not
following the recommendation.




(2)

If, after considering a response made by an authority under subsection
(1), the Ombudsperson believes it advisable to modify or further
modify the recommendation, the Ombudsperson must notify the authority
of the recommendation as modified and may request that the authority
notify the Ombudsperson




(a)

of the steps that have been or are proposed to be taken to give effect
to the modified recommendation, or




(b)

if no steps have been or are proposed to be taken, of the reasons for
not following the modified recommendation.






Report of Ombudsperson if no suitable action taken




25

(1)


If within a reasonable time after a request has been made under
section 24 no action is taken that the Ombudsperson believes
adequate or appropriate, the Ombudsperson, after considering any
reasons given by the authority, may submit a report of the matter to
the Lieutenant Governor in Council and, after that, may make a report
to the Legislative Assembly respecting the matter as the Ombudsperson
considers appropriate.




(2)

The Ombudsperson must attach to a report under subsection (1) a copy
of the Ombudsperson's recommendation and any response made to it under
section 24, but the Ombudsperson must delete from the recommendation
and from the response any material that would unreasonably invade any
person's privacy, and may delete material revealing the identity of a
member, officer or employee of an authority.






Complainant to be informed




26

(1)


If the Ombudsperson makes a recommendation under section 23 or 24
and no action that the Ombudsperson believes adequate or appropriate
is taken within a reasonable time, the Ombudsperson




(a)

must inform the complainant of the recommendation and




(b)

may make additional comments the Ombudsperson considers appropriate.




(2)

The Ombudsperson must in every case inform the complainant within a
reasonable time of the result of the investigation.






No hearing as of right




27


A person is not entitled as of right to a hearing before the
Ombudsperson except as provided in this Act.






Ombudsperson not subject to review




28


Proceedings of the Ombudsperson must not be challenged, reviewed or
called into question by a court, except on the ground of lack or
excess of jurisdiction.






Proceedings privileged




29

(1)


Proceedings do not lie against the Ombudsperson or against a person
acting under the authority of the Ombudsperson for anything done in
good faith, reported or said in the course of the exercise or
purported exercise of duties under this Act.




(2)

For the purposes of any Act or law respecting libel or slander,




(a)

anything said, all information supplied and all documents and things
produced in the course of an inquiry or proceeding before the
Ombudsperson under this Act are privileged to the same extent as if
the inquiry or proceeding were a proceeding in a court, and




(b)

a report made by the Ombudsperson and a fair and accurate account of
the report in a newspaper, periodical publication or broadcast is
privileged to the same extent as if the report of the Ombudsperson
were the order of a court.






Delegation of powers




30

(1)


The Ombudsperson may in writing delegate to a person or class of
persons any of the Ombudsperson's powers or duties under this Act,
except the power




(a)

to delegate under this section,




(b)

to make a report under this Act, and




(c)

to require a production or disclosure under section 19 (1).




(2)

A delegation under this section is revocable at will and does not
prevent the Ombudsperson from exercising the delegated power at any
time.




(3)

A delegation may be made subject to terms the Ombudsperson considers
appropriate.




(4)

If the Ombudsperson by whom a delegation is made ceases to hold
office, the delegation continues in effect so long as the delegate
continues in office or until revoked by a succeeding Ombudsperson.




(5)

A person purporting to exercise power of the Ombudsperson through a
delegation under this section must, when requested to do so, produce
evidence of the person's authority to exercise the power.






Annual and special reports




31

(1)


The Ombudsperson must report annually on the affairs of the
Ombudsperson's office to the Speaker of the Legislative Assembly.




(2)

The Speaker must lay the report before the Legislative Assembly as
soon as possible.




(3)

If the Ombudsperson considers it to be in the public interest or in
the interest of a person or authority, the Ombudsperson may make a
special report to the Legislative Assembly or comment publicly about a
matter relating generally to the exercise of the Ombudsperson's duties
under this Act or to a particular case investigated by the
Ombudsperson.






Offences




32


A person commits an offence who does any of the following:




(a)

without lawful justification or excuse, intentionally obstructs,
hinders or resists the Ombudsperson or another person in the exercise
of a power conferred or a duty imposed under this Act;




(b)

without lawful justification or excuse, refuses or intentionally fails
to comply with a lawful requirement of the Ombudsperson or another
person under this Act;




(c)

intentionally makes a false statement to or misleads or attempts to
mislead the Ombudsperson or another person in the exercise of a power
conferred or a duty imposed under this Act;




(d)

violates an oath taken under this Act;




(e)

contravenes section 16.






Other remedies




33


The provisions of this Act are in addition to the provisions of any
other enactment or rule of law under which




(a)

a remedy, right of appeal or objection is provided, or




(b)

a procedure is provided for inquiry into or investigation of a matter,


and nothing in this Act limits or affects that remedy, right of
appeal, objection or procedure.






Rules




34

(1)


On its own initiative or on the recommendation of the Lieutenant
Governor in Council the Legislative Assembly may make rules for the
guidance of the Ombudsperson in exercising the powers and performing
the duties of the office.




(2)

Subject to this Act and any rules made under subsection (1), the
Ombudsperson may determine the Ombudsperson's procedure and the
procedure for the members of the Ombudsperson's staff in exercising of
the powers conferred and performing the duties imposed by this Act.






Additions to Schedule




35


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may, by order, add authorities to
the Schedule.




Schedule


Authorities

1 Ministries of the government.

2 A person, corporation, commission, board, bureau or authority who
is or the majority of the members of which are, or the majority of the
members of the board of management or board of directors of which are,


(a) appointed by an Act, minister, the Lieutenant Governor in Council,


(b) in the discharge of their duties, public officers or servants of the
government, or

(c) responsible to the government.

3 A corporation the ownership of which or a majority of the shares
of which is vested in the government.

4 Municipalities.
5 Regional districts.

6 The Islands Trust established under the
Islands Trust Act
.


7 Improvement districts as defined in the
Local Government Act
.

8 [Repealed 2014-1-12.]

9  Boards, committees, commissions or similar bodies established
under the
Community Charter
, the
Local Government Act
or the
Vancouver Charter
.


10 The Resort Municipality of Whistler and the Whistler Resort
Association.


11 A local trust committee, the Trust Council, the Islands Trust
Conservancy and the executive committee and persons to whom their powers
are delegated under the
Islands Trust Act
.


12 Library boards as defined in the
Library Act
.

13 The Cultus Lake Park Board.

14 A greater board as defined in the
Community Charter
.


15 Water users' communities as defined in section 1 (1) of the
Water Users' Communities Act
.


15.1 Development districts, the comptroller and water managers under the
Water Sustainability Act
.


16 The commissioners of a district defined in section 58 of the
Drainage, Ditch and Dike Act
and an engineer, commissioner, inspector of dikes, land settlement
board, municipality or regional district acting under that Act.


17 The British Columbia Diking Authority and a diking authority
under the
Dike Maintenance Act
.


18 The Okanagan Kootenay Sterile Insect Release Board.


19 Regional transit commissions established under the
British Columbia Transit Act
.

20 A corporation

(a) more than 50% of the issued voting shares of which are owned by one
or more of the authorities listed in section 4 to 19 or this section, or


(b) that is controlled by one or more of the authorities listed in
section 4 to 19 and, for the purposes of ascertaining control, a
corporation is controlled by one or more of these authorities if a
majority of the members of the corporation or of its board of directors
or board of management consists of either or both of the following:


(i) persons appointed as members by the authorities;


(ii) officers or employees of an authority acting as such.


21 Schools and boards as defined in the
School Act
.


21.1 Francophone education authorities as defined in the
School Act
and francophone schools operated by francophone education authorities.


22 Universities as defined in the
University Act
.

23 The University of Northern British Columbia.
23.1 The Thompson Rivers University.
24 Royal Roads University.

25 Institutions as defined in the
College and Institute Act
.


26 Hospitals and boards of management of hospitals as defined in
the
Hospital Act
.


27 Governing bodies of professional and occupational associations
that are established or continued by an Act.


28 Regional Health Boards established under the
Health Authorities Act
.


29 Regional Hospital Districts under the
Hospital District Act
.

30 [Repealed 2002-35-11.]

31 The South Coast British Columbia Transportation Authority
continued under the
South Coast British Columbia Transportation Authority Act
.


32 The Business Practices and Consumer Protection Authority
established under the
Business Practices and Consumer Protection Authority Act
.

33 The Municipal Pension Board of Trustees.
34 The Teachers' Pension Board of Trustees.
35 The Public Service Pension Board of Trustees.
36 The College Pension Board of Trustees.

37 The British Columbia Safety Authority established under the
Safety Authority Act
.


38 The Land Title and Survey Authority established under the
Land Title and Survey Authority Act
.



