




Passenger Transportation Act
[SBC 2004] CHAPTER 39


Assented to May 13, 2004




Part 1 — Definitions





Definitions




1


In this Act:



"accessible passenger directed vehicle"

means a passenger directed vehicle designed and manufactured, or
converted, for the purpose of transporting persons who use mobility
aids;


"applicant"
means a person who makes an application for or in relation to a
licence or a temporary operating permit under Part 4;



"authorization"

means a general authorization or a special authorization;


"board"
means the Passenger Transportation Board established under section 6;



"commercial passenger vehicle"

means a motor vehicle operated on a highway by or on behalf of a
person who charges or collects compensation for the transportation of
passengers in that motor vehicle;



"compensation"

includes a rate, remuneration or reward of any kind paid, payable or
promised, or received or demanded, directly or indirectly;


"fleet size"
has the prescribed meaning;


"former Act"
means the

Motor Carrier Act

;



"general authorization"

, when used in relation to a motor vehicle, means an authorization to
operate the motor vehicle as a general passenger vehicle;



"general passenger vehicle"

means a commercial passenger vehicle when it is not operated as an
inter-city bus or as a passenger directed vehicle;


"highway"
includes all public streets, roads, ways, trails, lanes, bridges,
trestles, ferry landings and approaches, and any other public way;



"inter-city bus"

means either of the following:




(a)

a commercial passenger vehicle, other than a commercial passenger
vehicle excluded by regulation, when the commercial passenger vehicle
is operated




(i)

on a set time schedule




(A)

between a prescribed municipality and another location outside the
municipality, whether in British Columbia or not, or




(B)

between a location in a prescribed regional district and another
location inside or outside the prescribed regional district, whether
in British Columbia or not,




(ii)

for individual fares,




(iii)

over a regular route, and




(iv)

between fixed terminating points, picking up or dropping off
passengers at intermediate points as necessary;




(b)

a prescribed commercial passenger vehicle;



"inter-city bus authorization"

means an authorization that, if included in a licence, authorizes one
or more motor vehicles to be operated as inter-city buses;



"investigation"

includes an inquiry;


"licence"
means a licence issued under section 25 (1) or 29 (1);


"licensee"
means a person who holds a valid licence that has been




(a)

issued to that person, or




(b)

transferred to that person in accordance with section 30;


"managing"
, when used in relation to a motor vehicle, includes determining the
uses to which the motor vehicle may be put, but does not include
providing transportation network services;



"mobility aid"

means




(a)

a wheelchair, scooter or other device used to facilitate the
transport, in a normally seated position, of a person with a
disability, or




(b)

a prescribed device used to facilitate the transport of a person with
a disability;



"motor vehicle"

has the same meaning as in the

Motor Vehicle Act

;



"Motor Vehicle Act Regulations"

means the Motor Vehicle Act Regulations, B.C. Reg. 26/58;



"motor vehicle liability policy"

means a certificate issued under Part 1 of the

Insurance (Vehicle) Act

and the regulations under that Part;


"operate"
, when used in relation to a motor vehicle, includes the driving or
managing of the motor vehicle;



"passenger directed vehicle"

means the following:




(a)

a commercial passenger vehicle, when the vehicle is operated to or
from locations determined by or on behalf of the passengers, but does
not include




(i)

a commercial passenger vehicle that can accommodate more than the
prescribed number of persons, or




(ii)

a commercial passenger vehicle excluded by regulation;




(b)

a prescribed commercial passenger vehicle;



"passenger directed vehicle authorization"

means an authorization that, if included in a licence, authorizes one
or more motor vehicles to be operated as passenger directed vehicles,
but only if those motor vehicles are hailed other than through the use
of transportation network services;



"peace officer"

includes a person authorized under the regulations to exercise the
powers and perform the duties of a constable or peace officer;



"permit holder"

means a person to whom a valid temporary operating permit has been
issued;


"rates"
, in relation to compensation that may be charged or collected for the
transportation of passengers in commercial passenger vehicles,
includes the following:




(a)

discount fares;




(b)

round-trip fares;




(c)

point-to-point fares;




(d)

deadhead charges;




(e)

minimum and maximum charges;




(f)

any other fares, fees or charges;


"registrar"
means the Registrar of Passenger Transportation appointed under
section 2;



"safety certificate"

has the same meaning as in section 37.01 of the Motor Vehicle Act
Regulations;



"special authorization"

means any of the following:




(a)

an inter-city bus authorization;




(b)

a passenger directed vehicle authorization;




(c)

a transportation network services authorization;



"temporary operating permit"

means a temporary operating permit issued under section 37
[applications considered by the registrar]
or 38
[applications considered by the board]
;



"transportation network services"

means either of the following:




(a)

services, other than services excluded by regulation, respecting the
connection of drivers of passenger directed vehicles with passengers
who hail and pay for the services through the use of an online
platform;




(b)

prescribed services;



"transportation network services authorization"

means an authorization that, if included in a licence,




(a)

authorizes the licensee to provide transportation network services,
and




(b)

authorizes one or more motor vehicles to be operated as passenger
directed vehicles, but only if those motor vehicles are hailed through
the use of the transportation network services;


"type"
, when used in relation to commercial passenger vehicles, means




(a)

general passenger vehicles,




(b)

inter-city buses, or




(c)

passenger directed vehicles;



"vehicle identifier"

means a sticker, decal, tag, certificate, plate or other identifier
that




(a)

is issued by the registrar to a licensee, or is authorized by the
registrar to be issued by a licensee, and




(b)

is required, as a term or condition of the licensee's licence, to be
displayed on or in each motor vehicle operated under that licence.




Part 2 — Registrar of Passenger Transportation





Registrar and staff




2

(1)


An individual must be appointed as the Registrar of Passenger
Transportation under subsection (2).




(2)

The registrar and the officers and employees necessary to carry out
the powers, functions and duties of the registrar are to be appointed
in accordance with the

Public Service Act

.




(3)

The registrar has the powers conferred, and must perform the duties
imposed, on the registrar under this Act.






Access to driver and motor vehicle records




3


The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia must provide the
registrar with access to every driver record and motor vehicle record,
including records of insurance, kept by the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia under the

Commercial Transport Act

, the

Motor Vehicle Act

, the

Insurance (Motor Vehicle) Act

, the

Insurance (Vehicle) Act

or the

Insurance Corporation Act

, that the registrar considers the registrar requires for the purpose
of carrying out the registrar's powers, functions and duties under
this Act.






Powers, functions and duties of registrar




4

(0.1)


The registrar is responsible for supporting accessibility in the
passenger directed vehicle industry.




(0.2)

For the purposes of subsection (0.1), the registrar may make payments
to the following:




(a)

licensees;




(b)

the drivers of passenger directed vehicles;




(c)

prescribed persons or organizations.




(0.3)

The responsibility described in subsection (0.1) must be discharged in
accordance with the regulations, if any.




(1)

Without limiting section 2 (3), the registrar may




(a)

maintain an electronic or other index identifying licensees and permit
holders and setting out the status of their respective licences and
temporary operating permits,




(b)

make the index referred to in paragraph (a) available to the public in
any manner that the registrar considers appropriate, and




(c)

make rules of procedure respecting all applications, submissions and
matters coming before the registrar.




(2)

The registrar must make accessible to the public any rules of
procedure made under this section and may waive or modify one or more
of those rules in exceptional circumstances.




(3)

The registrar may delegate the registrar's powers, functions and
duties as follows:




(a)

the registrar may delegate any or all of the registrar's powers under
sections 46, 47 and 48 to a person referred to in section 2 (2);




(b)

the registrar may delegate any or all of the registrar's powers under
Part 4 to




(i)

a person appointed under the

Public Service Act

,




(ii)

a person referred to in section 2 (2),




(iii)

a government agent,




(iv)

the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia, or




(v)

an agent of the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia;




(c)

the registrar may delegate any or all of the other powers, functions
and duties of the registrar under this Act to a person referred to in
any of subparagraphs (ii), (iii), (iv) or (v) of paragraph (b).




(4)

The powers, functions and duties delegated under subsection (3) must
be carried out in accordance with any directives issued by the
registrar.




(5)

For the purpose of subsection (4), the registrar may issue general or
specific directives in the form and manner the registrar considers
appropriate.






Audits and investigations




5

(1)


In this section,
"inspector"
means a person conducting an audit or investigation that the person is
authorized under this section to conduct.




(2)

Without limiting section 2 (3)
[registrar and staff]
, the registrar, or a person authorized by the registrar under section
4
[powers, functions and duties of the registrar]
or otherwise, may conduct an audit or investigation that the registrar
considers necessary to ensure compliance with this Act and the
regulations, including, without limitation, an audit or investigation
for any of the following purposes:




(a)

determining whether an applicant, licensee, permit holder or driver




(i)

holds a valid safety certificate, if required under Division 37
[Safety Code]
of the Motor Vehicle Act Regulations, and




(ii)

is otherwise in compliance with this Act;




(b)

in respect of a person who is or may be driving a passenger directed
vehicle under a licence or temporary operating permit that is or may
be issued, determining whether




(i)

the person has undergone the prescribed record checks in accordance
with section 42.2 (1) (a)

[prescribed record checks required for drivers of passenger directed
vehicles]

,




(ii)

the person has a record that includes a prescribed matter, contrary to
section 42.2 (2),




(iii)

the licensee has ensured that the person complies with section
42.2 (1), (2) and (4),




(iv)

the person has a record check certificate and is displaying the
certificate as required under section 42.3 (a)

[record check certificate must be displayed in passenger directed
vehicle]

, or




(v)

the licensee has issued a record check certificate to the person and
has ensured that the person displays the certificate as required under
section 42.3 (a);




(c)

in respect of a motor vehicle that is or may be operated under a
licence or temporary operating permit that is or may be issued,
determining whether




(i)

the motor vehicle meets prescribed requirements,




(ii)

proof of financial responsibility has been given to the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia under section 106
[proof of financial responsibility]
of the

Motor Vehicle Act

, or




(iii)

the applicable motor vehicle liability policies have been issued;




(d)

determining whether a licence or temporary operating permit should be
issued, amended, transferred, renewed or replaced;




(e)

determining whether a penalty should be imposed under Part 6
[Enforcement]
;




(f)

determining whether an order under Part 6 has previously been made in
respect of an applicant, licensee or permit holder;




(g)

investigating, in compliance with a direction of the board, any matter
related to an application for a licence in which a special
authorization is sought;




(h)

any other matter in relation to which the registrar or the board has
powers or duties under this Act.




(2.1)

Without limiting section 2 (3) or subsection (2) of this section, the
registrar, or a person authorized by the registrar under section 4 or
otherwise, may conduct an audit or investigation that the registrar
considers is or may be necessary to determine whether an applicant, a
licensee or the holder of a temporary operating permit is a fit and
proper person to provide the service.




(3)

An inspector




(a)

may enter the business premises of a licensee, licensee's agent,
permit holder or permit holder's agent during normal business hours
for the purposes of inspecting any records and things that may be
relevant to the inspection, and




(b)

must, on request, present identification to the owner or occupant of
the premises.




(4)

For the purposes of subsection (2) or (2.1), the inspector may




(a)

require any person who has possession of or control over any records
and things that may be relevant to the audit or investigation to
produce those records and things,




(b)

inspect any of the records and things produced under paragraph (a),
and




(c)

remove any of the records and things produced under paragraph (a) for
the purpose of making copies or extracts.




(5)

A licensee, licensee's agent, permit holder or permit holder's agent
referred to in subsection (3) (a) must produce all records and things
that an inspector may require for the purposes of this section and
must answer all questions of the inspector regarding the matters
relevant to the audit or investigation.




(6)

An inspector who removes any records or things




(a)

may make copies of, take extracts from or otherwise record them,




(b)

must give a receipt for them to the person from whom they are taken,
and




(c)

must return them within a reasonable time.




(7)

A person must not obstruct an inspector or withhold, destroy, tamper
with, conceal or refuse to produce any information, record or thing
that is required by the inspector or that is otherwise relevant to any
of the matters in respect of which the audit or investigation may be
conducted.




Part 3 — Passenger Transportation Board



Division 1 — Establishment of the Board





Board established




6

(1)


The Passenger Transportation Board is established, consisting of at
least 3 persons appointed, after a merit-based process, by the
Lieutenant Governor in Council.




(2)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council must designate one of the persons
appointed under subsection (1) as chair of the board.




(3)

The following provisions of the

Administrative Tribunals Act

apply to the board:




(a)

in section 1
[definitions]
, the definitions of "appointing authority", "member", "privative
clause", "tribunal" and "tribunal's enabling Act";




(b)

Part 2
[Appointments]
;




(c)

Part 3
[Clustering]
;




(d)

section 11

[general power to make rules respecting practice and procedure]

;




(e)

section 26
[organization of tribunal]
;




(f)

section 28
[facilitated settlement]
;




(g)

section 29
[disclosure protection]
;




(h)

section 30
[tribunal duties]
;




(i)

section 31
[summary dismissal]
;




(j)

section 41
[hearings open to public]
;




(k)

section 42
[discretion to receive evidence in confidence]
;




(l)

section 44

[tribunal without jurisdiction over constitutional questions]

;




(m)

section 46.3

[tribunal without jurisdiction to apply the Human Rights Code]

;




(n)

section 57
[time limit for judicial review]
;




(o)

section 58
[standard of review with privative clause]
;




(p)

section 59.1
[surveys]
;




(q)

section 59.2
[reporting]
;




(r)

section 60 (1) (g) to (i) and (2)
[power to make regulations]
;




(s)

section 61

[application of Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy
Act]

.




(3.1)

A person who participates in a hearing may be represented by counsel
or by an agent and may make submissions as to facts, law and
jurisdiction.




(4)

The board has the powers conferred, and must perform the duties
imposed, on the board under this Act.




(5)

The minister may provide general policy directives to the board with
respect to the exercise of the board's powers and duties.






Powers, functions and duties of board




7

(1)


Without limiting section 6 (4), the board may do any or all of the
following:




(a)

direct the registrar to provide any information or records, or to
undertake any audits or investigations, the board considers are
necessary to allow the board to discharge its duties or exercise its
authority;




(b)

conduct investigations into




(i)

any matter related to the operation or licensing of inter-city buses
or passenger directed vehicles,




(i.1)

any matter related to the provision of transportation network
services,




(ii)

at the request of the minister, any matter related to the operation or
licensing of commercial passenger vehicles, or




(iii)

whether an applicant, a licensee or the holder of a temporary
operating permit is a fit and proper person to provide the service and
is capable of providing the service;




(c)

arrange and conduct hearings;




(d)

make rules respecting practice and procedure for all applications,
appeals, submissions and hearings coming before the board and for all
investigations under paragraph (b);




(e)

order applicants to provide public notice of their applications in the
manner, at the times and with the content the board may require;




(f)

approve, or set, for the purpose of establishing just and uniform
charges, rates to be charged by a licensee in respect of passenger
directed vehicles operated under a licence that includes a passenger
directed vehicle authorization or transportation network services
authorization, or under a temporary operating permit that includes a
passenger directed vehicle authorization, and approve any rule,
practice or tariff of the licensee relating to those rates;




(g)

make rules respecting




(i)

rates that are or may be charged by a licensee,




(ii)

any rules or practices of a licensee relating to those rates, and




(iii)

any tariff of those rates;




(h)

[Repealed 2004-45-132.]




(i)

determine, as a question of fact, whether a special authorization is
required to authorize any actual or proposed operation of a motor
vehicle.




(1.1)

Subject to the regulations, if the board considers that the conduct of
a participant in a proceeding has been improper, vexatious, frivolous
or abusive, the board may order the participant to pay part of the
actual costs and expenses of the board in connection with the
proceeding.




(1.2)

An order under subsection (1.1), after filing in the court registry,
has the same effect as an order of the court for the recovery of a
debt in the amount stated in the order against the person named in it,
and all proceedings may be taken on the order as if it were an order
of the court.




(2)

The board must make the rules of practice and procedure made under
this section accessible to the public in the manner it considers
appropriate.




(3)

Officers and employees required to allow the board to perform its
functions under this Act may be appointed under the

Public Service Act

.




(4)

The board may retain consultants, investigators, expert witnesses or
other persons as may be necessary for the board to discharge its
functions under this Act and may establish remuneration and other
terms and conditions of their retainers.




(5)

The

Public Service Act

does not apply to a person retained under subsection (4) of this
section.




Division 2 — Members of the Board





Repealed




8-9


[Repealed 2004-45-133.]






Compulsion protection




10

(1)


A board member, or a person acting on behalf of or under the direction
of a board member, is not required to testify or produce evidence in
any civil, administrative or regulatory action or proceeding about
records or information obtained in the discharge of duties under this
Act.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), the board may be required by the Supreme Court
to produce the record of a proceeding that is the subject of an
application for judicial review under the

Judicial Review Procedure Act

.




Division 3 — Proceedings of the Board





Definition




11


In this Division,
"proceeding"
means an investigation conducted under section 7 (1) (b), any
application made or forwarded to the board, any reconsideration,
appeal or other hearing conducted by the board.






Board proceedings




12

(1)


The board has the power to control its own process.




(2)

At any time during a proceeding, but before its decision, the board
may make an order requiring a person




(a)

to attend an oral or electronic hearing to give evidence on oath or
affirmation or in any other manner that is admissible and relevant to
an issue in a proceeding, or




(b)

to produce for the board a document or other thing in the person's
possession or control, as specified by the board, that is admissible
and relevant to an issue in a proceeding.




(2.1)

The board may apply to the Supreme Court for an order




(a)

directing a person to comply with an order made by the board under
subsection (2), or




(b)

directing any directors and officers of a person to cause the person
to comply with an order made by the board under subsection (2).




(3)

[Repealed 2004-45-134.]




(4)

If the board requests information from the registrar for the purposes
of a proceeding before the board, the registrar may in writing
designate a person appointed under section 2 (2) to attend before the
board on behalf of the registrar if, in the opinion of the registrar,
that designated person is knowledgeable in respect of the subject
matter that is being considered by the board.




(4.1)

The board may, on its own initiative, consider any records,
information and reports that the board considers relevant to a
proceeding.




(4.2)

The records, information and reports referred to in subsection (4.1)
include records, information and reports obtained or produced by or
for the board.




(5)

An act of the board must not be questioned or held invalid on the
grounds that insufficient notice or no notice has been given to any
person.






Adjournments




13

(1)


The board may adjourn any proceeding




(a)

on its own motion, or




(b)

if it is shown to the satisfaction of the board that an adjournment is
required.




(2)

The factors that the board must have regard to in considering whether
a proceeding should be adjourned include the following:




(a)

the reason for the adjournment;




(b)

whether an adjournment would cause unreasonable delay;




(c)

the impact of refusing the adjournment on the applicant or appellant;




(d)

the impact of the adjournment on the public interest.






Proceedings involving similar questions




14


If 2 or more proceedings involve the same or similar questions of
fact, law or policy, the board may




(a)

combine those proceedings or any part of them,




(b)

conduct those proceedings at the same time,




(c)

conduct those proceedings one immediately after the other, or




(d)

stay one or more of those proceedings until after the determination of
another one of them.






Evidence admissible in proceedings




15

(1)


Subject to this section, the board may receive and accept evidence and
information, on oath, by affidavit or otherwise, that the board
considers relevant, necessary and appropriate to a proceeding, whether
or not the evidence or information would be admissible in a court of
law, but the board may exclude anything it considers unduly
repetitious.




(2)

Nothing is admissible before the board that is inadmissible in a court
because of a privilege under the law of evidence.




(3)

Nothing in subsection (1) overrides the provisions of any Act
expressly limiting the extent to which or the purposes for which any
oral testimony, documents or things may be admitted or used in
evidence.






Recording board proceedings




16

(1)


The board may, in its discretion, transcribe or record its
proceedings.




(2)

If the board makes a transcription or recording of a proceeding under
subsection (1), the transcription or recording must be considered to
be correct and to constitute part of the record of the proceeding.




(3)

If, by reason of a mechanical or human failure or other accident, the
transcription or recording of a proceeding is destroyed, interrupted
or incomplete, the validity of the proceeding is not affected.






Oral hearings not required




17


Despite any other provision of this Act, in any circumstance in which,
under this Act, a hearing may or must be held, the board may conduct a
written, electronic or oral hearing, or any combination of them, as
the board, in its sole discretion, considers appropriate.






Repealed




18


[Repealed 2004-45-136.]






Failure of person to comply with board orders and rules




19


If a person fails to comply with an order of the board or with the
rules of practice and procedure of the board, including any time
limits specified for taking any actions, the board may, after giving
notice to that person,




(a)

continue with the proceedings and make a decision based on the
evidence before it, or




(b)

dismiss the application or appeal as having been abandoned.






Maintenance of order at hearings




20

(1)


The board may make such orders or give such directions at an oral
hearing as it considers necessary for the maintenance of order at the
hearing.




(2)

If any person disobeys or fails to comply with an order or direction
made under subsection (1), the board may call for the assistance of
any peace officer to enforce the order or direction.




(3)

Every peace officer called on by the board under subsection (2) may
take such action as is necessary to enforce the order or direction and
may use such force as is reasonably required for that purpose.




(4)

Without limiting subsection (1), (2) or (3), the board may, by order,
impose restrictions on the continued participation or attendance of a
person in a proceeding, and may exclude a person from further
participation or attendance in a proceeding until the board orders
otherwise.






Decisions




21

(1)


The board must make its final decision, with reasons, in writing and
must make any final order in writing.




(2)

A decision of the board is effective on the date it is issued by the
board, unless otherwise specified by the board.




(3)

The board must make its decisions and orders accessible to the public
in the manner it considers appropriate.




(4)

The board may reconsider, vary or rescind any decision made by it if
the board is satisfied that




(a)

information has become available that was not available at the time
the decision was made, or




(b)

there has been an error in procedure.






Exclusive jurisdiction of board




22

(1)


The board has exclusive jurisdiction to inquire into, hear and
determine all those matters and questions of fact, law and discretion
arising or required to be determined under this Act and to make any
order permitted to be made.




(2)

A decision or order of the board under this Act on a matter in respect
of which the board has exclusive jurisdiction is final and conclusive
and is not open to question or review in any court.




Division 4 — Reports of the Board





Annual reports




22.1


Within 5 months after the end of each fiscal year, the board must make
a report to the minister for the preceding fiscal year, setting out
briefly




(a)

all applications made for a licence that includes a special
authorization,




(b)

the financial statements applicable to the board, including full
disclosure of the expenses of the board, and




(c)

other information the minister may require.






Board to make recommendations




22.2


In addition to any other reports the board may or must provide under
this Act, the board must, when directed to do so by the minister,




(a)

review this Act and the regulations and recommend to the minister any
amendments to this Act or the regulations that the board considers
will better enable the board and the registrar to perform or exercise
the board's or the registrar's powers, functions and duties under this
Act, and




(b)

report to the minister on any other matter relating to this Act or the
regulations, as specified by the minister.




Part 4 — Licences



Division 1 — Requirement for Licence





Licence required to operate commercial passenger vehicle




23

(1)


A person must not operate a motor vehicle as a type of commercial
passenger vehicle unless the following requirements are met:




(a)

the motor vehicle is being operated under a valid licence that
authorizes the motor vehicle to be operated as that type of commercial
passenger vehicle;




(b)

the motor vehicle is being operated under a valid safety certificate;




(c)

the person meets prescribed requirements and is otherwise operating
the motor vehicle in compliance with the licence, this Act, the
regulations and other applicable laws;




(d)

passengers transported in the motor vehicle are charged rates in
compliance with, as applicable,




(i)

rates approved or set by the board under section 7 (1) (f)
[rates for passenger directed vehicles]
, and




(ii)

rules made under section 7 (1) (g)
[rules respecting rates charged by licensees]
;




(e)

the motor vehicle meets prescribed requirements.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), a person must not




(a)

operate a motor vehicle equipped with a meter, or




(b)

operate a motor vehicle equipped with a top light,


unless the licence under which the motor vehicle is operated expressly
authorizes that operation and the motor vehicle is a passenger
directed vehicle.




(3)

Without limiting subsection (1), a person must not transport in a
commercial passenger vehicle, as passengers, persons who hail the
motor vehicle from the street, or who cause the motor vehicle to be
hailed from the street, unless




(a)

the licence under which the motor vehicle is operated includes a
passenger directed vehicle authorization that expressly authorizes the
motor vehicle to be hailed from the street, or




(b)

the motor vehicle is an inter-city bus or a prescribed commercial
passenger vehicle.




(4)

A person must not provide, or advertise or hold out that the person is
able to provide, a service that involves the operation of motor
vehicles as a type of commercial passenger vehicles unless




(a)

the person is a licensee whose licence includes the authorization
necessary for that type of operation, or




(b)

the licence under which each of the motor vehicles through which that
service is or may be provided includes that authorization.




(5)

[Repealed 2018-53-8.]






Licence required to provide transportation network services




23.1

(1)


A person must not provide transportation network services unless the
following requirements are met:




(a)

the person is authorized under a valid licence to provide the
transportation network services;




(b)

the person holds a valid safety certificate;




(c)

the person meets prescribed requirements and is otherwise in
compliance with the licence, this Act, the regulations and other
applicable laws;




(d)

passengers transported in passenger directed vehicles operated under
the licence are charged rates in compliance with, as applicable,




(i)

rates approved or set by the board under section 7 (1) (f)
[rates for passenger directed vehicles]
, and




(ii)

rules made under section 7 (1) (g)
[rules respecting rates charged by licensees]
.




(2)

Without limiting section 23 (1), a person who drives a motor vehicle
as a commercial passenger vehicle must not transport in the motor
vehicle, as passengers, persons who hail the motor vehicle through the
use of transportation network services unless the licence under which
the person is driving the motor vehicle includes a transportation
network services authorization that expressly authorizes the motor
vehicle to be hailed through the use of those services.




(3)

A person must not provide, or advertise or hold out that the person is
able to provide, transportation network services unless the person is
a licensee whose licence includes the transportation network services
authorization necessary to provide those services.




(4)

For certainty, a person does not provide transportation network
services by driving a passenger directed vehicle under a
transportation network services authorization.






Application for licence




24

(1)


A person may apply to the registrar for a licence.




(2)

An application for a licence must set out the authorizations sought by
the applicant.




(3)

If an applicant is seeking a passenger directed vehicle authorization
or transportation network services authorization, the application must
set out the rates, and any rules, practices or tariffs relating to
those rates, that the applicant proposes will apply to the
authorization.




Division 2 — General Commercial Vehicles





Application and issue of licence that includes only general
authorization




25

(1)


If the registrar receives an application for a licence in which the
only authorization sought is a general authorization, the registrar
must, subject to subsections (1.1), (4) and (5), issue a licence in
response to that application, and provide the licence to the
applicant, if the registrar is satisfied that the following
requirements are met:




(a)

the applicant




(i)

holds a valid safety certificate, if required under Division 37
[Safety Code]
of the Motor Vehicle Act Regulations, and




(ii)

meets prescribed requirements;




(b)

one of the following has occurred, or the applicant will ensure,
before motor vehicles are operated under the licence, that one of the
following has occurred:




(i)

proof of financial responsibility has been given to the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia under section 106
[proof of financial responsibility]
of the

Motor Vehicle Act

;




(ii)

the applicable motor vehicle liability policies have been issued;




(c)

the applicant will ensure that motor vehicles operated under the
licence meet prescribed requirements;




(d)

the applicant is not subject to an order under Part 6
[Enforcement]
.




(1.1)

The registrar may




(a)

if the registrar thinks it necessary or advisable, consider, in
addition to the requirements in subsection (1), whether the applicant
is a fit and proper person to provide the service, and




(b)

refuse to issue a licence in respect of the application if, in the
opinion of the registrar, the applicant is not a fit and proper person
to provide the service.




(2)

[Repealed 2008-30-43.]




(2.1)

The registrar must establish as a term or condition of a licence
issued under this section that each motor vehicle operated under the
licence must display, at the times and in the form and manner required
by the registrar, a vehicle identifier that is




(a)

issued to the licensee by the registrar, or




(b)

authorized by the registrar to be issued by the licensee.




(2.2)

A licence issued under this section may include other terms and
conditions that the registrar may require.




(3)

If a licence is issued under this section, the licensee is, subject to
section 23 (1)
[licence required to operate commercial passenger vehicle]
, authorized to operate, as general passenger vehicles, each of the
motor vehicles to which the licence applies.




(4)

If the registrar receives an application referred to in subsection (1)
but the registrar believes that the operations intended by the
applicant require a special authorization, the registrar must forward
the application to the board.




(5)

After receiving an application under subsection (4), the board must
determine whether a special authorization is required to authorize the
operations intended by the applicant and,




(a)

if the board determines that a special authorization is not required,
the board must notify the registrar and the applicant of that
determination and the registrar must treat the application as an
application to which subsection (1) applies, or




(b)

if the board determines that a special authorization is required, the
board must notify the registrar and the applicant of that
determination and the applicant must, if the applicant wishes to
proceed with the application, amend the application to seek the
necessary special authorizations.




Division 3 — Inter-City Buses, Passenger Directed Vehicles and
Transportation Network Services





Other licence applications




26

(1)


If the registrar receives an application for a licence in which a
special authorization is sought, the registrar must forward that
application to the board.




(2)

After receiving an application under subsection (1), the board must
publish notice of the application in a manner that, in the opinion of
the board, is reasonably sufficient to bring to the attention of the
public the fact and nature of the application.




(3)

Despite subsection (2), the board need not publish notice of the
application or accept or consider any written submissions provided in
respect of the application if the board is satisfied that there is an
urgent public need for the service proposed in the application.






Consideration of application




27

(1)


If an application is forwarded to it under section 26 (1), the board




(a)

must, in the case of any application other than one referred to in
section 26 (3), defer its consideration of the application for a
period of at least 7 days after the date on which the notice referred
to in section 26 (2) is published, and




(b)

may require further information from the applicant, including written
or oral submissions.




(2)

Any person may, within the time period specified by the board and on
payment of the prescribed fee, make a written submission to the board
respecting the application forwarded to it under section 26 (1).




(3)

At any time after the expiry of the 7-day period referred to in
subsection (1), the board may do one or more of the following:




(a)

convene and conduct a hearing of the application;




(b)

conduct an investigation in respect of any matter related to the
application;




(c)

direct the registrar to conduct an audit or investigation in respect
of any matter, related to the application, that the board may specify.




(4)

The board may permit a person to make submissions, respecting an
application, for consideration at a hearing,




(a)

at the time and in the manner specified by the board, and




(b)

if the person is not the applicant, on payment of the prescribed fee.




(5)

Unless the board directs otherwise, a person making a submission
respecting an application does not, merely because of that submission,
become entitled to




(a)

participate any further in the application process, and




(b)

obtain any further information or disclosure respecting the
application.




(6)

The board may, in its sole discretion, waive or reduce a fee payable
under subsection (2) or (4) or any costs that the board is entitled to
claim.






Determination by board




28

(1)


The board may approve, in whole or in part, an application forwarded
to the board under section 26 (1)
[other licence applications]
after considering the following:




(a)

whether the applicant




(i)

is a fit and proper person to provide the service the applicant
proposes to provide under the special authorization, and




(ii)

is capable of providing the service;




(b)

if the board considers that the applicant is a fit and proper person
to provide the service and is capable of providing the service,




(i)

whether there is a public need for the service, and




(ii)

whether the application, if granted, would promote sound economic
conditions in the passenger transportation industry in British
Columbia.




(2)

If the board approves an application for a licence, the board must
specify the special authorizations that should be included in the
licence, if issued.




(3)

The board may establish terms and conditions that apply to a special
authorization included in a licence, if issued, including, without
limitation, terms and conditions respecting any of the following:




(a)

equipment or technology that must be installed, used or carried on or
in motor vehicles operated under the authorization and the inspection,
testing, adjustment, display and use of that equipment or technology;




(b)

if the licence is to include an inter-city bus authorization, routes
and minimum route frequencies;




(c)

if the licence is to include a passenger directed vehicle
authorization,




(i)

the methods by which motor vehicles may be hailed under the
authorization, which methods may include




(A)

booking the motor vehicle in advance,




(B)

hailing the motor vehicle from the street,




(C)

hailing the motor vehicle through a dispatcher, or




(D)

any other hailing method, other than hailing through the use of
transportation network services,




(ii)

information that must be displayed or carried on or in the motor
vehicles, including information the board considers necessary to
promote passenger safety and consumer protection,




(iii)

fleet size, and




(iv)

the geographic area in which motor vehicles may be operated under the
authorization;




(d)

if the licence is to include a transportation network services
authorization,




(i)

information that must be displayed or carried on or in the motor
vehicles or made available to passengers through the use of the
licensee's online platform, or both, including information referred to
in paragraph (c) (ii),




(ii)

fleet size, and




(iii)

the geographic area in which motor vehicles may be operated under the
authorization.




(4)

The board must establish as a term or condition of a special
authorization that each motor vehicle operated under the authorization
must display, at the times and in the form and manner required by the
registrar, a vehicle identifier that is




(a)

issued to the licensee by the registrar, or




(b)

authorized by the registrar to be issued by the licensee.




(5)

The board must establish as a term or condition of a passenger
directed vehicle authorization or transportation network services
authorization that the licensee must provide to the registrar any
information, including personal information, and data that the
registrar or the board may require, including, without limitation,
information and data respecting




(a)

the motor vehicles, and the drivers of those motor vehicles, operated
under the authorization,




(b)

the availability of the motor vehicles, at given points in time, for
hailing by methods permitted under the authorization, and




(c)

trips taken by passengers transported in accessible passenger directed
vehicles or trips taken by passengers transported in non-accessible
passenger directed vehicles, or both, including




(i)

trip rates,




(ii)

wait times,




(iii)

pick-up times and locations, and




(iv)

drop-off times and locations.




(6)

The board must establish as a term or condition of a transportation
network services authorization that motor vehicles may be hailed under
the authorization only through the use of the transportation network
services approved under that authorization.




(7)

The board must notify the registrar and the applicant of




(a)

a decision under subsection (1) approving or refusing to approve an
application for a licence, and




(b)

if the application is approved, the terms and conditions established
in respect of each authorization to be included in the licence, if
issued.






Role of registrar if board approves licence including special
authorization




29

(1)


After receiving notice from the board that the board has approved, in
whole or in part, an application for a licence in which a special
authorization is sought, the registrar must issue a licence in
response to that application, and provide the licence to the
applicant, if the registrar is satisfied that the following
requirements are met:




(a)

the applicant




(i)

holds a valid safety certificate, if required under Division 37
[Safety Code]
of the Motor Vehicle Act Regulations, and




(ii)

meets prescribed requirements;




(b)

one of the following has occurred, or the applicant will ensure,
before motor vehicles are operated under the licence, that one of the
following has occurred:




(i)

proof of financial responsibility has been given to the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia under section 106
[proof of financial responsibility]
of the

Motor Vehicle Act

;




(ii)

the applicable motor vehicle liability policies have been issued;




(c)

the applicant will ensure that motor vehicles operated under the
licence meet prescribed requirements;




(d)

the applicant is not subject to an order under Part 6
[Enforcement]
;




(e)

the applicant has paid the prescribed fee for




(i)

the licence, and




(ii)

[Not in force.]




(2)

A licence issued under this section must include the following:




(a)

a general authorization, if applied for, that includes




(i)

the term or condition referred to in section 25 (2.1)
[motor vehicle must display vehicle identifier]
, and




(ii)

any other terms and conditions that the registrar may require;




(b)

the special authorizations specified by the board under section 28 (2)
[determination by board]
;




(c)

the terms and conditions established by the board under section 28 (3)
to (6).




(3)

If a licence issued under this section includes a general
authorization, inter-city bus authorization or passenger directed
vehicle authorization, the licensee is, subject to section 23 (1)
[requirements respecting licensee]
, authorized to operate motor vehicles under the licence as commercial
passenger vehicles if and only to the extent that the licence
authorizes that operation.




(4)

If a licence issued under this section includes a transportation
network services authorization,




(a)

the licensee is, subject to section 23.1 (1)

[licence required to provide transportation network services]

, authorized to provide transportation network services under the
licence if and only to the extent that the licence authorizes the
provision of those services, and




(b)

persons are, subject to section 23 (1), authorized to operate motor
vehicles as passenger directed vehicles under the licence if and only
to the extent that the licence authorizes that operation.




Division 4 — Other Applications





Transfer of licences




30

(1)


A licensee must apply to the registrar before transferring the
licence, and, in that event,




(a)

Division 2 applies to an application to transfer a licence issued
under that Division, and




(b)

Division 3, other than section 28 (1) (b), applies to an application
to transfer a licence issued under that Division.




(2)

In applying Division 2 or 3 for the purposes of this section,




(a)

except in the provisions referred to in paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of
this subsection, the provisions in Division 2 or 3 are to be read as
if references to "the applicant" were references to "the transferee",




(b)

sections 25 (1) (d)

[application and issue of licence that includes only general
authorization]

and 29 (1) (d) are to be read as if the reference to "the applicant is
not subject" were a reference to "neither the applicant nor the
transferee is subject",




(c)

section 27 (1) (b)
[consideration of application]
is to be read as if a reference to "the applicant" were a reference to
"the applicant or transferee", and




(d)

section 28 (7)
[determination by board]
is to be read as if a reference to "the applicant" were a reference to
"the applicant and the transferee".




(3)

Promptly after a licence is transferred, the person who is
transferring the licence must do the following:




(a)

ensure that each vehicle identifier the person was required to display
on or in motor vehicles operated under the licence ceases to be
displayed on or in those motor vehicles;




(b)

collect the vehicle identifiers referred to in paragraph (a), or
notify the registrar if the person fails to collect each of those
vehicle identifiers;




(c)

if the vehicle identifiers collected under paragraph (b) were issued
by the registrar, return those vehicle identifiers to the registrar in
the prescribed manner.






Amendment of licences




31

(1)


Subject to subsection (4) and section 32, a licensee wishing to amend
a licence must apply to the registrar and, in that event,




(a)

Division 2 applies to an application to amend a licence issued under
that Division, and




(b)

Division 3 applies to an application to amend a licence issued under
that Division.




(2)

Despite subsection (1) but subject to subsection (3), the board may,
on its own initiative and in circumstances other than the renewal of a
licence under section 34
[expiry and renewal of licences]
, direct the registrar to amend a licence issued under Division 3 and,
in that event, sections 28 (2) to (6) and (7) (b)
[determination by board]
and 29

[role of registrar if board approves licence including special
authorization]

apply.




(3)

The board may issue a direction under subsection (2) for the following
purposes only:




(a)

to correct an error in a licence;




(b)

to standardize terms and conditions of




(i)

all licences, or




(ii)

all licences in a specified class of licences;




(c)

to make licences comply with amendments made to this Act or the
regulations;




(d)

to reflect changes to licences required by the results of an appeal
under this Act.




(4)

Without limiting subsection (2) or (3), if a licence contains terms
and conditions respecting fleet size and it appears to the board that
the licensee has consistently failed to operate the full number of
vehicles authorized by those terms and conditions respecting fleet
size, the board may direct the registrar to amend the licensee's
licence to reduce the fleet size to the number of motor vehicles the
board considers appropriate.




(5)

A licensee wishing to amend a licence to obtain an authorization not
already included in that licence must apply to the registrar for a new
licence and, in that event, Division 3 applies.






Addition of motor vehicles or transportation network services




32

(1)


A licensee whose licence includes a general authorization or
inter-city bus authorization may, unless the licensee is subject to an
order under section 46 (1) (a)
[suspension of licence]
, (c) (i) or (ii)
[order to stop operating or providing services]
or (d)
[cancellation of licence]
, operate one or more additional motor vehicles as general passenger
vehicles or inter-city buses under the licence without obtaining an
amendment to the licence under section 31
[amendment of licences]
.




(2)

A licensee whose licence includes a passenger directed vehicle
authorization may not increase the fleet size authorized under the
licence unless the licensee obtains an amendment to the licence under
section 31.




(3)

A licensee whose licence includes a transportation network services
authorization may not, unless the licensee obtains an amendment to the
licence under section 31,




(a)

increase the fleet size authorized under the licence, or




(b)

provide transportation network services that are different from the
transportation network services authorized under the licence.






Replacement of licences, special authorization vehicle identifiers and
vehicle identification certificates




33

(1)


If a licence or a vehicle identifier issued by the registrar is worn
out, defaced, lost or destroyed, it may be replaced.




(2)

A person wishing to replace a licence or a vehicle identifier issued
by the registrar must apply to the registrar.




(3)

On receipt of an application to replace a licence or a vehicle
identifier issued by the registrar, the registrar must replace the
licence or vehicle identifier if the registrar is satisfied that




(a)

the original licence or vehicle identifier is worn out, defaced, lost
or destroyed,




(b)

the applicant is not at the time of application subject to an order
under Part 6 that prohibits the person from obtaining or replacing
that licence or vehicle identifier, and




(c)

[Not in force.]






Expiry and renewal of licences




34

(1)


Subject to subsection (5), a licence issued under this Part expires
one year after the date of its issue.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), if the board specifies a different term for a
licence under section 28 (2), the licence expires at the end of that
specified term.




(3)

A person wishing to renew a licence must, before the expiry of the
licence, apply to the registrar under this section for the renewal.




(4)

Despite subsection (3), a person wishing to renew a licence may apply
under this section to renew the licence within 7 days after its expiry
if the registrar is satisfied that the failure to renew was
inadvertent.




(5)

If a person referred to in subsection (4) renews a licence within the
7 day period referred to in that subsection, the person is deemed, for
all purposes under this Act, to have renewed the person's licence
immediately before its expiry.




(6)

Subject to subsection (6.1), on receipt of an application under this
section, the registrar must renew the licence that is the subject of
the application if satisfied that




(a)

the terms and conditions of the licence do not prohibit renewal of the
licence,




(b)

in the case of a licence that includes a general authorization, the
requirements set out in section 25 (1)

[application and issue of licence that includes only general
authorization]

are met, and




(c)

in the case of a licence that includes a special authorization, the
requirements set out in section 29 (1)

[role of registrar if board approves licence including special
authorization]

are met.




(6.1)

The registrar may




(a)

if the registrar thinks it necessary or advisable, consider, in
addition to the requirements in subsection (6), whether the applicant
is a fit and proper person to provide the service, and




(b)

refuse to renew the licence if, in the opinion of the registrar, the
applicant is not a fit and proper person to provide the service.




(6.2)

Despite subsection (1), if the registrar thinks it necessary or
advisable to consider under subsection (6.1) (a) whether the applicant
is a fit and proper person to provide the service, the licence that is
the subject of the application under subsection (3) does not expire
until




(a)

the expiry of the prescribed number of days after the date that it
would otherwise have expired under subsection (1), or




(b)

7 days after the date on which the registrar concludes the registrar's
consideration,

whichever comes first.



(6.3)

In the case of the renewal of a licence that includes a special
authorization, the board may, by exercising the board's powers under
section 28 (3) to (6)
[determination by board]
, direct the registrar to amend the terms and conditions of the
licence.




(6.4)

In the case of the renewal of a licence that includes a general
authorization, the registrar may, by exercising the registrar's powers
under section 25 (2.1) or (2.2)

[application and issue of licence that includes only general
authorization]

, amend the terms and conditions of the licence.




(7)

If under this section the registrar renews a licence in which a
special authorization is included, the registrar must provide to the
applicant




(a)

a new copy of the licence setting out




(i)

the expiry date applicable to the renewed licence, and




(ii)

the terms and conditions established by the board, and




(b)

a vehicle identifier for each of the motor vehicles in respect of
which a vehicle identifier issued by the registrar is required under
the licence.




(c)

[Repealed 2018-53-20.]




(7.1)

If under this section the registrar renews a licence in which a
general authorization is included, the registrar must provide to the
applicant a new copy of the licence setting out




(a)

the expiry date applicable to the renewed licence, and




(b)

the terms and conditions established by the registrar.




(8)

Subject to subsections (6.3) and (6.4), a licence renewed under
subsection (6) is subject to the terms and conditions that applied to
the licence before its renewal.






Change of rates




35

(1)


Subject to subsection (3) and section 32, a licensee whose licence
includes a passenger directed vehicle authorization or transportation
network services authorization must apply to the registrar if the
licensee wishes




(a)

to change the rates that apply to a service that is or may be offered
by the licensee under that licence, or




(b)

to change any rules, practices or tariffs applicable to those rates.




(2)

If the registrar receives an application under subsection (1), the
registrar must forward that application to the board.




(3)

After receiving an application under subsection (1), the board must
publish notice of the application in a manner that, in the opinion of
the board, is reasonably sufficient to bring to the attention of the
public the fact and nature of the application.




(4)

Section 27 applies to an application under subsection (1).




(5)

If the board approves, in whole or in part, an application forwarded
to it under subsection (2), the board must notify the registrar and
the applicant of the approval and of the changes that the board has
accepted in relation to rates and any related rules, practices or
tariffs.




(6)

If the board refuses to approve an application forwarded to it under
subsection (1), the board must notify the registrar and the applicant
of that refusal.




Division 5 — Temporary Operating Permits





Applications for temporary operating permits




36

(1)


Despite section 23, a person may operate a motor vehicle as a
commercial passenger vehicle without holding a valid licence to
authorize that operation if




(a)

the motor vehicle is being operated under a valid temporary operating
permit that authorizes the motor vehicle to be operated as that type
of commercial passenger vehicle,




(b)

the permit holder holds a valid safety certificate and is otherwise in
compliance with applicable laws, and




(c)

the motor vehicle is operated in compliance with




(i)

any rates approved or set by the board under section 7 (1) (f) and any
rules made in relation to those rates under section 7 (1) (g), and




(ii)

this Act, other than Divisions 1 to 4 and Part 5, and the regulations.




(1.1)

[Repealed 2022-35-9.]




(2)

A person who is not a licensee may apply to the registrar for a
temporary operating permit to operate one or more motor vehicles as
commercial passenger vehicles.




(3)

An application under this section must set out the proposed period for
which the temporary operating permit is to apply.




(4)

If the registrar receives an application under this section, the
registrar must consider the application under section 37
[applications considered by the registrar]
.






Application by licensee to temporarily increase fleet size




36.1

(1)


Despite sections 23
[licence required to operate commercial passenger vehicle]
and 32 (2)
[licence amendment required to increase fleet size]
, a licensee whose licence includes a passenger directed vehicle
authorization may, in order to operate additional motor vehicles as
passenger directed vehicles without holding a valid licence to
authorize the operation of those additional motor vehicles,
temporarily increase the licensee's fleet size if the following
requirements are met:




(a)

each of the additional motor vehicles is being operated under a valid
temporary operating permit that authorizes the motor vehicles to be
operated as passenger directed vehicles;




(b)

each of the additional motor vehicles is being operated under a valid
safety certificate;




(c)

persons operating each of the additional motor vehicles are in
compliance with section 23 (1) (c) and (d), as if the
additional motor vehicles were being operated under the licensee's
licence;




(d)

each of the additional motor vehicles meets prescribed requirements.




(2)

A licensee may apply to the registrar for a temporary operating permit
to temporarily increase the fleet size authorized under the licence.




(3)

An application under this section must set out




(a)

the proposed period for which the temporary operating permit is to
apply,




(b)

the reasons for applying for the temporary operating permit, and




(c)

the rates, and any rules, practices or tariffs applicable to those
rates, that the applicant proposes will apply to motor vehicles
operated under the temporary operating permit.




(4)

If the registrar receives an application under this section, the
registrar must forward the application to the board for consideration
under section 38
[applications considered by the board]
.






Applications considered by registrar




37

(1)


The registrar must issue a temporary operating permit in response to
an application received under section 36
[applications for temporary operating permits]
if the registrar is satisfied that,




(a)

in the case of an application to operate a motor vehicle as a general
passenger vehicle, the requirements set out in section 25 (1)

[application and issue of licence that includes only general
authorization]

are met, and




(b)

in the case of an application to operate a motor vehicle as an
inter-city bus or passenger directed vehicle, the requirements set out
in section 29 (1)

[role of registrar if board approves licence including special
authorization]

are met.




(1.01)

In applying sections 25 (1) and 29 (1) for the purposes of subsection
(1) of this section, those sections are to be read as if references to
"licence" were references to "temporary operating permit".




(1.1)

The registrar may




(a)

if the registrar thinks it necessary or advisable, consider, in
addition to the requirements in subsection (1), whether the applicant
is a fit and proper person to provide the service, and




(b)

refuse to issue the temporary operating permit if, in the opinion of
the registrar, the applicant is not a fit and proper person to provide
the service.




(1.2)

A temporary operating permit issued under this section must not have a
term that is longer that the prescribed maximum period.




(1.3)

A temporary operating permit issued under this section may include
terms and conditions that the registrar may require.




(2)

If a temporary operating permit is issued under this section, the
motor vehicles to which the temporary operating permit relates are
authorized to be operated as commercial passenger vehicles if and only
to the extent that the temporary operating permit authorizes that
operation.






Applications considered by board




38

(1)


The board may approve an application forwarded to it under section
36.1 (4)

[application by licensee to temporarily increase fleet size]

if the board considers that there is an urgent and temporary need for
the licensee to increase the number of motor vehicles that are or may
be operated under the licence.




(2)

Sections 28 (1) (a), (3) (a) and (c), (5) and (7)
[determination by board]
and 29 (1)

[role of registrar if board approves licence including special
authorization]

apply to an application forwarded to the board under 36.1 (4)
and, for this purpose, those sections are to be read as if




(a)

references to "licence" were references to "temporary operating
permit", and




(b)

the reference to "licensee" in section 28 (5) were a reference to
"permit holder".




(3)

If a temporary operating permit is issued under this section, the
motor vehicles to which the temporary operating permit relates are
authorized to be operated as passenger directed vehicles if and only
to the extent that the temporary operating permit authorizes that
operation.






Effect of temporary operating permit




39


If a temporary operating permit is issued under this Division,




(a)

the registrar must provide the temporary operating permit to the
applicant,




(b)

the permit holder is, for the period to which the temporary operating
permit applies, deemed for the purposes of Part 6 to be a licensee in
respect of the motor vehicles to which the temporary operating permit
applies,




(c)

a person must, when operating a motor vehicle to which the temporary
operating permit applies,




(i)

in the case of a temporary operating permit issued under
section 37
[applications considered by registrar]
, carry in the motor vehicle a copy of the temporary operating permit,
or




(ii)

in the case of a temporary operating permit issued under
section 38
[applications considered by board]
, carry in the motor vehicle




(A)

a copy of the temporary operating permit, and




(B)

evidence of authority to operate the motor vehicle under the temporary
operating permit and, for this purpose, the evidence must be capable
of being produced in the prescribed form and manner,




(d)

the temporary operating permit is, for the period to which it applies,
deemed for the purposes of Part 6 to be a licence, and




(e)

the temporary operating permit is and remains the property of the
government.




Division 5.1 — Fitness of Licensees and Permit Holders





Continuing requirement to be fit and proper




39.1

(1)


Despite anything in this Act or the regulations,




(a)

the registrar may at any time, on the registrar's own initiative, if
the registrar thinks it necessary or desirable, consider whether a
licensee or a holder of a temporary operating permit is a fit and
proper person to provide the service, and




(b)

the board may at any time, on its own initiative, if the board thinks
it necessary or desirable, consider whether a licensee who holds a
licence issued under section 29 (1) or a holder of a temporary
operating permit issued under section 38 is a fit and proper person to
provide the service and is capable of providing the service.




(2)

If, after the consideration referred to in subsection (1) (a), the
registrar is of the opinion that the licensee or holder of a temporary
operating permit is not a fit and proper person to provide the
service, the registrar may, despite section 46 (2), impose one or more
of the penalties referred to in section 46 (1) (a), (c) or (d) without
providing the notice otherwise required under section 46 (2).




(3)

If, after the consideration referred to in subsection (1) (b), the
board is of the opinion that the licensee or holder of a temporary
operating permit is not a fit and proper person to provide the service
or is not capable of providing the service, the board may direct the
registrar to impose one or more of the penalties referred to in
section 46 (1) (a), (c) or (d), and on that direction the registrar
may impose one or more of the penalties without providing the notice
otherwise required under section 46 (2).




(4)

If, under subsection (2) or (3), the registrar makes an order referred
to in section 46 (1) (a), (c) or (d), section 47 (2) to (4) applies.




(5)

In addition to the penalties that may be imposed under subsection (2)
or (3), the registrar or the board may require that the licensee do
one or both of the following:




(a)

complete a specified education or training program;




(b)

require persons who operate motor vehicles under the licensee's
licence to complete a specified education or training program.




Division 6 — General





Applications to the registrar




40


An application to the registrar under this Part must be




(a)

made in the form established, and in the manner approved, by the
registrar, and




(b)

accompanied by




(i)

the information required by the registrar, and




(ii)

the prescribed application fee.






Licences must include authorizations




41


A licence issued under Division 2 or 3 must state on it the
authorizations included in it.






Government retains interest in issued records




42


Each licence and vehicle identifier issued by the registrar is and
remains the property of the government.






Review by special committee




42.1

(1)


On or before July 1, 2023, the Legislative Assembly must appoint a
special committee for the purposes of this section.




(2)

The special committee must conduct a review of passenger directed
vehicle services and transportation network services administered
under this Act, including, without limitation, a review of the
following:




(a)

whether the provision of licences under the Act that include passenger
directed vehicle authorizations or transportation network services
authorizations promotes




(i)

an adequate supply of passenger directed vehicles, including
accessible passenger directed vehicles, and




(ii)

passenger and driver safety;




(b)

the effectiveness of the test set out in section 28 (1)
[determination by board]
in meeting the objective referred to in paragraph (a) of this
subsection;




(c)

whether the Act promotes employment in the passenger directed vehicle
services and transportation network services industries;




(d)

impacts on public transportation, traffic congestion and the
environment attributable to the administration under this Act of
passenger directed vehicle services and transportation network
services;




(e)

whether the Act promotes passenger directed vehicle services,
including transportation network services, in small, rural or remote
communities.




(3)

In conducting the review under this section, the special committee may




(a)

request and consider records, information or reports from the
registrar and the board relating to a matter referred to in subsection
(2), and




(b)

solicit and review written and oral submissions from any interested
person or organization.




(4)

Within one year of being appointed to conduct the review under this
section, the special committee must submit a report to the Legislative
Assembly respecting the results of that review.




(5)

The report submitted under subsection (4) may include any
recommendations that the special committee considers appropriate.




Part 5 — Operation of a Commercial Passenger Vehicle





Prescribed record checks required for drivers of passenger directed
vehicles




42.2

(1)


A person must not drive a passenger directed vehicle under a licence
unless




(a)

the person has undergone the prescribed record checks in accordance
with the prescribed record check requirements, and




(b)

the person has provided to the licensee a copy of the prescribed
record checks.




(2)

A person who has undergone prescribed record checks under subsection
(1) (a) must not drive a passenger directed vehicle under a licence if
either of the following applies:




(a)

the results of the prescribed record checks indicate that the person
has a record that includes a prescribed matter;




(b)

the prescribed record checks do not indicate that the person has a
record that includes a prescribed matter, but, before undergoing the
next prescribed record checks, the person acquires a record that
includes a prescribed matter.




(3)

As soon as practicable after obtaining a driver's prescribed record
checks under subsection (1) (b), a licensee must, if the results of
the prescribed record checks indicate that the driver does not have a
record that includes a prescribed matter, issue to the driver a record
check certificate that sets out the prescribed information.




(4)

If a driver of a passenger directed vehicle under a licence acquires a
record that includes a prescribed matter, the driver must, as soon as
practicable,




(a)

notify the licensee of the record, and




(b)

return to the licensee the record check certificate issued under this
Part.




(5)

A licensee must immediately notify the registrar if any of the
following occurs:




(a)

the results of a prescribed record check indicate that a person has a
record that includes a prescribed matter;




(b)

the licensee receives notice under subsection (4) (a);




(c)

a driver fails to return, under subsection (4) (b), a record check
certificate.




(6)

A licensee who holds a licence that includes a passenger directed
vehicle authorization or transportation network services authorization
must ensure that all drivers who are or may be operating passenger
directed vehicles under the licence comply with subsections (1), (2)
and (4).




(7)

A licensee who holds a licence that includes a passenger directed
vehicle authorization or transportation network services authorization
must maintain records of each of the following for the calendar year
in which the records were obtained or made and for the next 5 calendar
years:




(a)

a prescribed record check obtained under subsection (1) (b);




(b)

a notice received under subsection (4).






Review of acquired record or results of prescribed record checks




42.21

(1)


A person who has undergone the prescribed record checks under section
42.2 (1) (a)

[prescribed record checks required for drivers of passenger directed
vehicles]

, or who acquires a record that appears to include a prescribed
matter, may request that the registrar review the acquired record or
the results of one or more of the record checks if




(a)

it is uncertain whether the person has a record that includes a
prescribed matter, or




(b)

the person has a record that includes a prescribed matter and the
person believes that the matter is unrelated to the person's work or
intended work as a driver of a passenger directed vehicle.




(2)

A request under subsection (1) must include any information that the
registrar may require.




(3)

After reviewing a request made under subsection (1), the registrar
must determine the following:




(a)

if subsection (1) (a) applies, whether the person has a record that
includes a prescribed matter;




(b)

if subsection (1) (b) applies or the registrar determines under
paragraph (a) of this subsection that the person has a record that
includes a prescribed matter, whether the matter is unrelated to the
person's work or intended work as a driver of a passenger directed
vehicle and, for this purpose, the registrar must take into account
public safety.




(4)

A licensee may issue to a person a record check certificate that sets
out the prescribed information if the registrar determines under
subsection (3) that




(a)

the person does not have a record that includes a prescribed matter,
or




(b)

the person has a record that includes a prescribed matter but the
prescribed matter is unrelated to the person's work or intended work
as a driver of a passenger directed vehicle.






Record check certificate must be displayed in passenger directed
vehicle




42.3


When a motor vehicle is being operated under a licence as a passenger
directed vehicle,




(a)

the driver must display in the vehicle, at the times and in the form
and manner required under the licence, the driver's record check
certificate issued under this Part, and




(b)

the licensee must ensure that the driver's record check certificate is
displayed in accordance with paragraph (a).






Licence or evidence of authority to operate must be carried in motor
vehicle




43

(1)


When a person is operating a motor vehicle as a general passenger
vehicle or inter-city bus under a licence, the person must carry in
the motor vehicle a copy of the licence.




(2)

When a person is operating a motor vehicle as a passenger directed
vehicle under a licence, the person must carry in the motor vehicle




(a)

a copy of the licence, and




(b)

evidence of authority to operate the motor vehicle under the licence
and, for this purpose, the evidence must be capable of being produced
in the prescribed form and manner.






Display of vehicle identifier




44

(1)


Subject to subsection (1.1), when a person is operating a motor
vehicle as a commercial passenger vehicle, the person




(a)

must display a vehicle identifier on or in the motor vehicle in
accordance with the terms and conditions of the licence that
authorizes that operation, and




(b)

must not display any other vehicle identifier on or in that motor
vehicle.




(1.1)

Subsection (1) does not apply if the person




(a)

is operating the motor vehicle under a valid temporary operating
permit, and




(b)

is in compliance with section 39 (c)

[temporary operating permit or evidence of authority to operate must
be carried in motor vehicle]

.




(2)

A peace officer may seize a vehicle identifier that the peace officer
finds




(a)

detached from a commercial passenger vehicle, or




(b)

displayed on a commercial passenger vehicle that is not being operated
under the authorization of a valid licence.




(3)

After a vehicle identifier is seized by a peace officer under
subsection (2), the peace officer must notify the registrar of the
seizure and must hold the vehicle identifier until the peace officer
receives instructions from the registrar as to its disposal.




(4)

For the purposes of subsection (2), a peace officer may seize a
vehicle identifier whether or not it is attached to a number plate or
commercial passenger vehicle and whether it is found on a highway or
elsewhere.






Duty of licensee who voluntarily ceases to operate commercial
passenger vehicle




45

(1)


A licensee who voluntarily ceases to operate one or more motor
vehicles as commercial passenger vehicles under a licence, or who
voluntarily ceases to provide transportation network services under a
licence, must do the following:




(a)

promptly report the cessation to the registrar;




(b)

collect each vehicle identifier displayed on or in the motor vehicles
to which the cessation relates, or notify the registrar if the
licensee fails to collect any of the vehicle identifiers;




(c)

if the vehicle identifiers collected under paragraph (b) were issued
by the registrar, return those vehicle identifiers to the registrar in
the prescribed manner.




(2)

A person who operates a motor vehicle as a commercial passenger
vehicle under a licence must, if the person is not the licensee and
the licensee reports a voluntary cessation under subsection (1),




(a)

cease displaying on or in the motor vehicle the vehicle identifier
required in respect of that motor vehicle, and




(b)

return the vehicle identifier to the licensee for collection under
subsection (1) (b).






Duty of licensees and permit holders to ensure compliance by operators




45.1

(1)


A licensee must ensure that persons who operate motor vehicles under
the licensee's licence comply with the following provisions:




(a)

section 23 (1)
[licence required to operate commercial passenger vehicle]
;




(b)

section 43 (1) and (2)

[licence or evidence of authority to operate must be carried in
motor vehicle]

;




(c)

section 44 (1)
[display of vehicle identifier]
;




(d)

section 45 (2) (a)

[person must cease displaying vehicle identifier if licensee ceases
to operate or provide services]

.




(2)

A permit holder must ensure that persons who operate motor vehicles
under the permit holder's temporary operating permit comply with the
following provisions, as applicable:




(a)

section 36 (1) (c)

[authority to operate commercial passenger vehicle under temporary
operating permit]

;




(b)

section 36.1 (1) (c)

[authority to operate additional passenger directed vehicles under
temporary operating permit]

;




(c)

section 39 (c)

[temporary operating permit or evidence of authority to operate must
be carried in motor vehicle]

.




Part 6 — Enforcement





Penalties relating to licences




46

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), if the registrar is satisfied that a
licensee has failed to comply with this Act, the regulations or the
terms and conditions of the licensee's licence, the registrar may, in
accordance with this Part and within one year after becoming aware of
the licensee's failure to comply, take one or more of the following
actions:




(a)

order that the licensee's licence be suspended for any period the
registrar considers necessary;




(b)

make an order prohibiting the licensee from doing one or more of the
following:




(i)

transferring the licence to another person;




(ii)

amending the licence;




(iii)

replacing the licence;




(iv)

renewing the licence;




(v)

obtaining a new licence;




(c)

order the licensee to do one or more of the following:




(i)

stop operating, or cause other persons to stop operating, one or more
motor vehicles under the licence;




(ii)

stop providing, or cause other persons to stop providing, one or more
services under the licence;




(iii)

cease displaying, or cause other persons to cease displaying, the
vehicle identifiers required to be displayed on or in the motor
vehicles;




(iv)

collect the vehicle identifiers referred to in subparagraph (iii), or
notify the registrar if the licensee fails to collect any of those
vehicle identifiers;




(v)

if the vehicle identifiers collected under subparagraph (iv) were
issued by the registrar, return those vehicle identifiers to the
registrar in the prescribed manner;




(c.1)

in relation to a licence that includes a passenger directed vehicle
authorization or transportation network services authorization, order
the licensee to do one or more of the following:




(i)

cause a person to cease displaying a record check certificate required
to be displayed in a motor vehicle;




(ii)

collect a record check certificate or notify the registrar if the
licensee fails to collect a record check certificate;




(iii)

ensure that a person has no access, in the person's capacity as
driver, to the licensee's online platform for the purposes of driving
under the licensee's licence;




(iv)

remove a person's record check certificate from the licensee's online
platform;




(d)

order that the licensee's licence, or an authorization included in
that licence, be cancelled;




(e)

make an order imposing an administrative fine on the licensee.




(1.1)

[Repealed 2018-53-35.]




(2)

If the registrar proposes to impose a penalty under subsection (1),
the registrar must notify the licensee in writing of the registrar's
intention in that regard, and the notice must




(a)

advise which of the penalties referred to in subsection (1) the
registrar intends to impose,




(b)

if the registrar proposes to impose a penalty referred to in
subsection (1) (a) or (b), indicate the period proposed for that
suspension or prohibition,




(c)

if the registrar proposes to impose an administrative fine, indicate
the amount of the proposed administrative fine, which amount must not
exceed $50 000,




(d)

set out the reasons for the proposed penalty,




(e)

advise that the licensee may, within 7 days after receipt of the
notice, provide to the registrar a written response setting out why
the proposed penalty should not be imposed, and




(f)

advise that the registrar will, if the licensee provides a written
response in accordance with paragraph (e), notify the licensee of the
registrar's decision respecting that response.




(2.1)

Before proposing to impose an administrative fine on a licensee for a
failure to comply with this Act, the regulations or the terms and
conditions of the licensee's licence, the registrar must consider the
following:




(a)

previous enforcement actions against the licensee;




(b)

the gravity and magnitude of the failure;




(c)

the extent of harm or potential harm to others resulting from the
failure;




(d)

whether the failure was repeated or continuous;




(e)

whether the failure was deliberate;




(f)

any economic benefit derived by the licensee from the failure;




(g)

the licensee's efforts to prevent or correct the failure;




(h)

prescribed matters.




(3)

If a licensee who receives a notice under subsection (2) does not
provide a written response within the time specified, the registrar




(a)

may impose the penalty proposed in the notice, and




(b)

must provide notice to the licensee of any penalty imposed.




(4)

If a licensee who receives a notice under subsection (2) provides a
written response within the time specified in the notice, the
registrar must consider that response and, after that, may




(a)

refrain from imposing any or all of the proposed penalties, or




(b)

impose any or all of the proposed penalties.




(5)

The registrar must notify the licensee of the registrar's decision
under subsection (4).




(6)

A penalty referred to subsection (1) (a) or (b) that is imposed under
this section may extend beyond the normal renewal date of the licence
but must not exceed a period of 3 years.




(7)

[Repealed 2022-35-14.]






Registrar may vary or rescind penalty




46.1


On application or on the registrar's own initiative, the registrar
may, at any time after imposing a penalty under section 46, vary
or rescind the penalty.






Suspension or cancellation of licence




47

(1)


Despite section 46 (2)
[penalties relating to licences]
, the registrar may impose one or more of the penalties referred to in
section 46 (1) (a), (c), (c.1) or (d) without
providing the notice otherwise required under section 46 (2) if
the registrar is satisfied that




(a)

one or more of the motor vehicles that have been operating under the
licence no longer meet prescribed requirements,




(b)

one or more of the motor vehicles that have been operating under the
licence are required to be operated, but are no longer being operated,
under a valid safety certificate,




(c)

applicable insurance requirements are no longer being met in respect
of one or more motor vehicles operated under the licence, or




(d)

the licensee has not complied with




(i)

section 42.2 (3), (5), (6) or (7)

[prescribed record checks required for drivers of passenger directed
vehicles]

, or




(ii)

section 42.3 (b)

[record check certificate must be displayed in passenger directed
vehicle]

.




(2)

If, under subsection (1) of this section or under section 46 (3) or
(4), the registrar makes an order referred to in
section 46 (1) (a), (c), (c.1) or (d), the order
is, despite subsection (3) of this section, effective immediately on
the registrar providing notice of the order to the licensee, and the
notice required for that purpose may be provided




(a)

orally,




(b)

by telephone,




(c)

by electronic means, or




(d)

in writing.




(3)

If notice of an order is given under subsection (2) (a), (b) or (c),
the registrar must send written confirmation of the suspension or
cancellation to the licensee.




(4)

Promptly after an order referred to in section 46 (1) (a), (c), (c.1)
or (d) is made, the licensee must comply with the order.






Imposition of administrative fines




48

(1)


If an administrative fine is imposed under section 46 (1) (e), the
notice provided under section 46 (3) (b) or (5) must advise the
licensee of the amount and manner of payment of the administrative
fine.




(2)

A licensee who is subject to an administrative fine under this
Division must pay the fine amount to the registrar within 30 days
after the date of the notice.




(3)

If, after an administrative fine has been paid, the amount of the
administrative fine is reduced or cancelled on an appeal under section
50, the amount to be returned to the licensee must be paid out of the
consolidated revenue fund without an appropriation other than this
section.




(4)

If a licensee on whom the registrar imposes an administrative fine
does not pay the full amount of that administrative fine to the
registrar within the time required under subsection (2), the registrar
may issue a certificate setting out the unpaid amount of the
administrative fine and, in that event,




(a)

the certificate is conclusive as to the unpaid amount of the
administrative fine,




(b)

that amount is a debt due to the government by the licensee, and




(c)

the certificate, if filed in the Supreme Court, has the same effect
and is subject to the same proceedings as a judgment of the court for
the recovery of a debt in the amount stated in the certificate against
the person named in it.






Notice must include advice about appeals




49


A written notice provided to a licensee under section 46 (3) (b) or
(5) or 47 (2) (d) or (3) in respect of a registrar's decision must
include notification that the licensee may appeal the registrar's
decision to the board.






Initiating appeals




50

(1)


A decision of the registrar under section 46 (3) or (4) or 47 (1) may
be appealed by filing a notice of appeal with the board not more than
30 days after the licensee's receipt of the notice referred to in
section 46 (3) (b) or (5) or 47 (2) (d) or (3), as the case may be.




(2)

The board may extend the time to file a notice of appeal, whether or
not the time to file that notice of appeal under subsection (1) has
expired, if the board is satisfied that




(a)

special circumstances existed that precluded the filing of a notice of
appeal within the time period required in subsection (1), and




(b)

an injustice would otherwise result.




(3)

A notice of appeal must




(a)

be made in writing or in another form acceptable to the board,




(b)

identify the decision that is being appealed,




(c)

state why the decision should be changed,




(d)

state the outcome requested,




(e)

contain the name, address and telephone number of the appellant, and,
if the appellant has an agent to act on the appellant's behalf in
respect of the appeal, include the full name of the agent and a
telephone number at which the agent may be contacted during normal
business hours,




(f)

include an address for delivery of any notices in respect of the
appeal, and




(g)

be signed by the appellant or the appellant's agent.




(4)

The notice of appeal must be accompanied by payment of the prescribed
fee or it will not be accepted by the board.




(5)

Despite subsections (3) and (4), if a notice of appeal is deficient or
if the prescribed fee is outstanding, the board's chair or delegate
may in the chair's or delegate's discretion allow a reasonable period
of time within which the notice may be perfected or the fee may be
paid.






Appeals




51

(1)


Despite an appeal under section 50 but subject to subsection (2) of
this section, the decision of the registrar that is subject to the
appeal remains in effect until the earlier of




(a)

the expiry of the period referred to in section 46 (2) (b), and




(b)

the date on which the penalty is rescinded by the board.




(2)

On an appeal from an order of the registrar referred to in section 46
(1) (a), (b), (c) or (d), the board may, at any time before making a
final determination on the appeal, order that the registrar's order is
suspended until the outcome of the appeal.




(3)

On an appeal under this section, the board must, after considering the
information provided by the licensee and the registrar,




(a)

rescind any or all of the proposed penalties, or




(b)

confirm any or all of the proposed penalties.




(4)

The board must notify the licensee and the registrar of the board's
decision under subsection (3).




(5)

If the suspension or cancellation of a licence is rescinded, the
registrar must promptly reinstate and, if necessary, reissue the
licence that was suspended or cancelled and must return to the
licensee or, if necessary, replace for the licensee the vehicle
identifiers that were returned under section 47 (4)
[suspension or cancellation of licence]
.




Part 7 — General





Substantial compliance with Act sufficient




52


A substantial compliance by the registrar or the board with the
requirements of this Act is sufficient to give effect to all the
orders, directives, rules and acts of the registrar or board, as the
case may be, and an order, directive, rule or act of the registrar or
board must not be declared inoperative, illegal or void for want of
form or for any error or omission of a technical or clerical nature.






Fees, charges and costs




53

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may prescribe fees and charges for
the following purposes:




(a)

recovering expenses arising out of the administration of this Act;




(b)

other purposes the Lieutenant Governor in Council considers
appropriate.




(2)

All fees, charges and costs collected by the registrar or board are
public money within the meaning of section 1
[definitions]
of the

Financial Administration Act

.






Forms




54


Without limiting section 40 but subject to sections 7 (1) (d) and 50
(1), the registrar may establish forms, including forms in an
electronic format, to be used for the purposes of carrying out powers,
functions and duties under this Act.






Sending of notices and responses




55

(1)


A notice or written response given by the registrar or the board may
be sent




(a)

by ordinary mail,




(b)

by electronic transmission, including by fax or by electronic mail,




(c)

by personal delivery, or




(d)

by some other method that allows proof of receipt if the registrar or
board has established rules dealing with the giving or receipt of
notice by that method.




(2)

A notice or written response given to the registrar or the board may
be sent




(a)

by ordinary mail,




(b)

by personal delivery, or




(c)

by some other method that allows proof of receipt if the registrar or
board has established rules dealing with the giving or receipt of
notice by that method.




(3)

If a notice or response is sent by ordinary mail, it must be sent to
the most recent address known to the sender and is deemed to be
received




(a)

on the fifth day after the day it is mailed, or




(b)

if that day is a Saturday or holiday, on the next day that is not a
holiday.




(4)

If a notice or response is sent by electronic transmission, it is
deemed to be received




(a)

on the day after it was sent, or




(b)

if that day is a Saturday or holiday, on the next day that is not a
holiday.




(5)

If a person who acts in good faith does not, through absence,
accident, illness or other cause beyond the person's control, receive
the notice or response until a later date than the deemed day of
receipt, the board or registrar may waive the deemed day of receipt
and accept a later day of receipt.




(6)

If a notice or document is not served in accordance with this section,
the proceeding is not invalidated if




(a)

the contents of the notice or document were known by the person to be
served within the time allowed for service,




(b)

the person to be served consents, or




(c)

the failure to serve does not result in prejudice to the person or any
resulting prejudice can be satisfactorily addressed by an adjournment
or other means.






Power to require information




56

(1)


A peace officer may, without a warrant, search a motor vehicle on a
highway that the peace officer has reasonable grounds to believe is
operating as a commercial passenger vehicle to determine whether this
Act and the regulations are being complied with in the operation of
that motor vehicle, and for that purpose may require the driver of the
motor vehicle to stop the motor vehicle and permit the search to be
made.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), a peace officer may require the
driver or other person in charge of a motor vehicle on a highway that
the peace officer has reasonable grounds to believe is operating as a
commercial passenger vehicle to produce for the inspection of the
peace officer, on demand, any or all of




(a)

a copy of the licence or temporary operating permit issued in respect
of the motor vehicle,




(a.1)

evidence of authority to operate the motor vehicle under a licence or
temporary operating permit, and




(b)

[Repealed 2018-53-39.]




(c)

the vehicle identifier required in respect of the motor vehicle.




(3)

The driver or other person in charge of a motor vehicle on a highway
who is required by a peace officer, by signals or otherwise, to stop
the motor vehicle to allow the motor vehicle to be searched for the
purposes of this section, or to produce the records referred to in
subsection (2), must promptly comply.






Offences for contravening licensing requirements




57

(1)


A person who operates a motor vehicle as a type of commercial
passenger vehicle commits an offence if the operation of the motor
vehicle




(a)

contravenes section 23 (1) (a)
[licence required to operate commercial passenger vehicle]
, and




(b)

is not authorized under a valid temporary operating permit.




(2)

A person who contravenes section 23.1 (1) (a)

[licence required to provide transportation network services]

commits an offence.




(3)

An individual who commits an offence under this section is liable to a
fine of




(a)

not less than $1 000, and




(b)

not more than $5 000.




(4)

A corporation or limited liability company that commits an offence
under this section is liable to a fine of not more than $100 000.




(5)

If an offence under this section continues for more than one day,
separate fines may be imposed for each day the offence continues and,
for this purpose, each fine must be, as applicable,




(a)

more than the minimum fine under subsection (3) (a), and




(b)

less than the maximum fine under subsection (3) (b) or (4).






Offences relating to record checks for drivers of passenger directed
vehicles




57.1

(1)


A person who operates a motor vehicle as a passenger directed vehicle
commits an offence if the person contravenes any of the following:




(a)

section 42.2 (1) (a) or (b)

[requirement to undergo and provide copy of prescribed record
checks]

;




(b)

section 42.2 (2) (a) or (b)

[prohibition against driving if record includes prescribed matter]

;




(c)

section 42.2 (3)
[licensee must issue record check certificate]
;




(d)

section 42.2 (4)

[driver must notify licensee if record acquired between record
checks]

;




(e)

section 42.2 (5) (a) or (b)
[licensee must notify registrar if driver has record]
;




(f)

section 42.2 (6)
[requirement for licensee to ensure compliance by drivers]
;




(g)

section 42.3 (a)
[driver must display record check certificate]
.




(2)

An individual who commits an offence under this section is liable to a
fine of




(a)

[Not in force.]




(b)

not more than $5 000.




(3)

A corporation or limited liability company that commits an offence
under this section is liable to a fine of not more than $100 000.






Offences relating to general operation of commercial passenger
vehicles




57.2

(1)


A person who operates a motor vehicle as a type of commercial
passenger vehicle commits an offence if the person contravenes any of
the following:




(a)

section 39 (c) (i)

[requirement to carry copy of temporary operating permit in general
passenger vehicle, inter-city bus or passenger directed vehicle]

;




(b)

section 39 (c) (ii)

[requirement to carry copy of temporary operating permit or evidence
of authority to operate in passenger directed vehicle]

;




(c)

section 43 (1)

[requirement to carry copy of licence in general passenger vehicle
or inter-city bus]

;




(d)

section 43 (2)

[requirement to carry copy of licence or evidence of authority to
operate in passenger directed vehicle]

;




(e)

section 44 (1) (a)
[requirement to display vehicle identifier]
;




(f)

section 44 (1) (b)
[prohibition against displaying other vehicle identifiers]
.




(2)

A person who operates a motor vehicle that displays a vehicle
identifier commits an offence if any of the following applies:




(a)

the licence to which the vehicle identifier relates




(i)

has been transferred, suspended or cancelled, or




(ii)

is no longer valid;




(b)

the licensee who holds the licence to which the vehicle identifier
relates has voluntarily ceased




(i)

to operate the motor vehicle under the licence, or




(ii)

to provide transportation network services to the person;




(c)

the licensee who holds the licence to which the vehicle identifier
relates is subject to an order under section 46 (1) (c)
[penalties relating to licences]
in relation to the motor vehicle.




(3)

A licensee who contravenes section 45 (1) (c)
[requirement to return vehicle identifiers]
commits an offence.




(4)

An individual who commits an offence under this section is liable to a
fine of not more than $2 000.




(5)

A corporation or limited liability company that commits an offence
under this section is liable to a fine of not more than $100 000.






Other offences




57.3

(1)


A person who contravenes any of the following commits an offence:




(a)

section 23 (4)

[prohibition against false representation of authority to operate
commercial passenger vehicle]

;




(b)

section 23.1 (3)

[prohibition against false representation of authority to provide
transportation network services]

;




(c)

section 30 (1)
[application required for transfer of licence]
;




(d)

section 56 (3)

[duty to comply with vehicle searches and requests for records by
peace officers]

;




(e)

a prescribed provision of the regulations.




(2)

A person who provides false or misleading information to the registrar
or the board commits an offence.




(3)

A person who does any of the following commits an offence:




(a)

contravenes section 5 (7)
[prohibition against obstructing audit or investigation]
;




(b)

provides false or misleading information or records to an inspector
conducting an audit or investigation under this Act.




(4)

An individual who commits an offence under this section is liable to a
fine of




(a)

[Not in force.]




(b)

not more than $5 000.




(5)

A corporation or limited liability company that commits an offence
under this section is liable to a fine of not more than $100 000.




(6)

If an offence under this section continues for more than one day,
separate fines may be imposed for each day the offence continues and,
for this purpose, each fine must be, as applicable,




(a)

[Not in force.]




(b)

less than the maximum fine under subsection (4) (b) or (5).






Offence by officer or director of corporation




57.4


If a corporation or limited liability company commits an offence under
this Act, an officer, director, manager or agent of the corporation or
limited liability company who authorizes, permits or participates in
the commission of the offence also commits an offence, whether or not
that corporation or limited liability company is prosecuted or
convicted.






Time limit for prosecuting offence




57.5

(1)


The time limit for laying an information for an offence under this Act
is




(a)

6 years after the date on which the act or omission that is alleged to
constitute the offence occurred, or




(b)

if the registrar issues a certificate described in subsection (2), 2
years after the date on which the registrar learned of the act or
omission referred to in paragraph (a).




(2)

A certificate purporting to have been issued by the registrar
certifying the date referred to in subsection (1) (b) is proof of
that date.






Relationship between administrative penalties and offences




57.6

(1)


If the registrar or the board imposes an administrative penalty on a
person under Part 6
[Enforcement]
, a prosecution for an offence under this Act for the same
contravention may not be brought against the person.




(2)

A person who has been charged with an offence under this Act may not
be subject to an administrative penalty in respect of the
circumstances that gave rise to the charge.






Section 5 of
Offence Act
does not apply




57.7


Section 5
[general offence]
of the

Offence Act

does not apply to this Act or the regulations.






Intent of Legislature




58

(1)


The registrar and the board may perform a function or duty and
exercise a power imposed or conferred on them by or under the
Motor Vehicle Transport Act, 1987
(Canada) in accordance with this Act.




(2)

This Act applies to licensees and permit holders if and to the extent
that they are subject to the legislative authority of British
Columbia.




(3)

If a provision of this Act is held to be beyond the powers of the
government, that provision must be severed from the remainder of the
Act, and the remaining provisions of the Act have the same effect as
if they had been originally enacted as a separate enactment and as the
only provisions of this Act.




Part 7.1 — Regulations





General power to make regulations




59

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
section 41
[power to make regulations]
of the

Interpretation Act

.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations




(a)

respecting any matter for which regulations are contemplated by this
Act, or




(b)

defining any word or phrase used but not defined in this Act.




(3)

The authority to make regulations under another provision of this Act
does not limit subsections (1) and (2).




(4)

In making a regulation under this Act, the Lieutenant Governor in
Council may do one or more of the following:




(a)

delegate a matter to a person;




(b)

confer a discretion on a person;




(c)

establish or define classes of persons, entities, geographic areas,
places, transactions, services, circumstances or things, including
establishing or defining classes of vehicles within a type of
commercial passenger vehicle;




(d)

make different regulations for




(i)

different persons, entities, geographic areas, places, transactions,
services, circumstances or things, or




(ii)

different classes of persons, entities, geographic areas, places,
transactions, services, circumstances or things, including different
classes of vehicles within a type of commercial passenger vehicle.






Regulations respecting accessibility program




59.01


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations as follows:




(a)

respecting matters relating to the registrar's responsibility under
section 4 (0.1)
[powers, functions and duties of registrar]
;




(b)

prescribing persons and organizations for the purposes of
section 4 (0.2) (c).






Regulations respecting administration and enforcement




59.1

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations as follows:




(a)

prescribing, in respect of licensees and permit holders, the
identification and licence or temporary operating permit status
information that must be maintained under section 4 (1) (a)
[registrar's duty to maintain electronic or other index]
;




(b)

prescribing limits and rates respecting the costs that may be
recovered by the board under section 7 (1.1)

[board's power to order participant to pay costs of proceedings]

;




(c)

prescribing rules of practice and procedure for the board;




(d)

authorizing persons to exercise the powers and perform the duties of a
constable or peace officer for the purpose of enforcing this Act or
the regulations;




(e)

amending or repealing any regulation made by the Motor Carrier
Commission under the former Act.




(2)

If the Lieutenant Governor in Council prescribes rules of practice and
procedure for the board under subsection (1) (c), any rules made by
the board are inapplicable to the extent that the rules are
inconsistent with the prescribed rules.






Regulations respecting operation of motor vehicles




59.2

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations respecting the
operation of motor vehicles as commercial passenger vehicles,
including, without limitation, regulations respecting any of the
following:




(a)

requirements that a person must meet if the person is or may be
operating a motor vehicle under a licence or temporary operating
permit that is or may be issued, including, without limitation,




(i)

minimum age requirements for drivers of passenger directed vehicles,
and




(ii)

training requirements;




(b)

equipment or technology that must be installed, used or carried on or
in a motor vehicle operated under a licence or temporary operating
permit and the inspection, testing, adjustment, display and use of
that equipment or technology;




(c)

requirements that a motor vehicle must meet if the motor vehicle is or
may be operated under a licence or temporary operating permit that is
or may be issued.




(2)

If the Lieutenant Governor in Council makes regulations respecting
equipment or technology under subsection (1) (b), any terms or
conditions established by the board under section 28 (3) (a)
[determination by board]
and included in a licence are inapplicable to the extent that the
terms and conditions are inconsistent with those regulations.






Regulations respecting licences and temporary operating permits




59.3

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations respecting any
of the following:




(a)

requirements that must be met by an applicant, licensee or permit
holder;




(b)

terms and conditions that are to apply to licences;




(c)

temporary operating permits, including, without limitation,




(i)

the maximum period for which a temporary operating permit may be
issued, and




(ii)

the terms and conditions that are to apply to temporary operating
permits;




(d)

requirements that an applicant, licensee or permit holder must ensure
are met by drivers employed or retained by the applicant, licensee or
permit holder;




(e)

information and records that may or must be provided and criteria that
may or must be considered for the purposes of determining one or both
of the following:




(i)

whether an applicant, licensee or permit holder is fit and proper to
provide services that are or may be authorized under a licence or
temporary operating permit that is or may be issued;




(ii)

whether an applicant, licensee or permit holder is capable of
providing the services referred to subparagraph (i);




(f)

records that must be kept by licensees and permit holders for the
purposes of this Act and the regulations.




(2)

If the Lieutenant Governor in Council makes regulations respecting
terms and conditions under subsection (1) (b) or (c) (ii),
any terms and conditions established by the registrar or board and
included in a licence are inapplicable to the extent that the terms
and conditions are inconsistent with the regulations.






Regulations respecting record checks for drivers of passenger directed
vehicles




59.4


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations as follows
respecting record checks for drivers of passenger directed vehicles:




(a)

prescribing any or all of the following as records that must be
checked:




(i)

driving records;




(ii)

criminal records;




(iii)

other records the Lieutenant Governor in Council considers
appropriate;




(b)

respecting requirements for carrying out a prescribed record check,
including, without limitation, prescribing




(i)

how often a prescribed record check must be carried out,




(ii)

the form and manner in which a prescribed record check must be carried
out, and




(iii)

the databases or other information sources that must be checked;




(c)

prescribing matters that must not be included in a record of a person
who is or may be a driver, including, without limitation, prescribing




(i)

convictions or charges for offences under federal or provincial
enactments,




(ii)

penalties or prohibitions imposed under federal or provincial
enactments, or




(iii)

contraventions or alleged contraventions of federal or provincial
enactments;




(d)

prescribing timelines and other procedural requirements applicable to
a request made under section 42.21 (1)

[review of acquired record or results of prescribed record checks]

;




(e)

prescribing notification requirements in respect of a determination
made under section 42.21 (3)
[determination by registrar]
.






Regulations respecting fees and charges




59.5

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations respecting
fees or charges contemplated by this Act or the regulations,
including, without limitation, fees or charges respecting any of the
following:




(a)

an application or submission under Part 4
[Licences]
;




(b)

a notice of appeal under Part 6
[Enforcement]
;




(c)

a licence, including, without limitation, the transfer, amendment,
replacement or renewal of a licence;




(d)

a temporary operating permit;




(e)

vehicle identifiers that are issued by the registrar.




(2)

In making a regulation under this section, the Lieutenant Governor in
Council may do any of the following:




(a)

establish the amount, or the method of determining the amount, of a
fee or charge;




(b)

in relation to a licence that includes a passenger directed vehicle
authorization or transportation network services authorization,
establish fees or charges based on




(i)

the licensee's fleet size, or




(ii)

the number of trips taken under the licence by passengers transported
in accessible passenger directed vehicles or by passengers transported
in non-accessible passenger directed vehicles, or both;




(c)

provide for the imposition of penalties, payable to the government, to
enforce payment of a fee or charge.






Regulations respecting exemptions




59.6

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations exempting
persons, commercial passenger vehicles or transportation network
services from the application of all or any part of this Act or the
regulations.




(2)

In providing for an exemption by regulation under this section, the
Lieutenant Governor in Council may set terms and conditions respecting
the application of the exemption.




Part 8 — Transitional Provisions and Consequential Amendments


Transitional Provisions





Repealed




60


[Repealed 2008-30-60.]






Transitional —
Motor Carrier Act




61

(1)


On the repeal of the former Act,




(a) to (c)

[Repealed 2008-30-60.]




(d)

all of the debts, liabilities, obligations and covenants of the Motor
Carrier Commission are transferred to and vested in the government.




(2)

On and after the date on which the former Act is repealed, a reference
to the Motor Carrier Commission in any commercial paper, contract or
lease is deemed to be a reference to the government.




(3)

[Repealed 2008-30-60.]






Transitional — appropriation




62


Money required to be paid in respect of the debts, liabilities,
obligations and covenants transferred to and vested in the government
by section 61 (1) (d) may be paid out of the consolidated revenue fund
without an appropriation other than this section.






Repealed




63-67


[Repealed 2008-30-60.]




Consequential Amendments









[Note: See Table of Legislative Changes for the status of sections
68 to 79.]









Section(s)



Affected Act




68





Administrative Tribunals Appointment and Administration Act






69





British Columbia Transit Act






70





Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act






71





Greater Vancouver Transportation Authority Act






72





Highway (Industrial) Act






73





Insurance Corporation Act






74





Insurance (Motor Vehicle) Act






75





Motor Carrier Act






76



Supplement to the Motor Carrier Act




77





Motor Vehicle Act






78





Vancouver Charter








Amendment to this Act






Section(s)



Affected Act




79



Amendment to this Act








Commencement




80


This Act comes into force by regulation of the Lieutenant Governor in
Council.




