




Poverty Reduction Strategy Act
[SBC 2018] CHAPTER 40


Assented to November 8, 2018




Part 1 — Definitions





Definitions




1


In this Act:



"advisory committee"

means the committee under section 10;



"annual report"

means a report under section 8;


"strategy"
means the strategy under section 2.




Part 2 — Poverty Reduction Strategy



Division 1 — Development of Strategy





Minister to develop strategy




2

(1)


The minister must develop a strategy to reduce and prevent poverty in
British Columbia.




(2)

The minister must




(a)

post the strategy in accordance with section 9 (a) by March 31,
2019, and




(b)

review and update the strategy at least once every 5 years after that
date.






Poverty reduction and prevention initiatives




3

(1)


The strategy must include initiatives intended, over the 5-year period
beginning on January 1, 2019, to reduce the poverty rate for 2024
below the poverty rate for 2016 by at least




(a)

25% among all persons, and




(b)

50% among persons under 18 years of age.




(2)

The strategy must include initiatives intended to reduce and prevent
poverty by increasing the following:




(a)

the affordability of goods, services and housing to persons living in
poverty and other low-income British Columbians;




(b)

the opportunities for persons living in poverty to move out of
poverty;




(c)

the inclusion of persons living in poverty in community life and in
systems of supports.




(3)

For the purposes of subsection (1), the poverty rate must be measured
using the market basket measure published by Statistics Canada as the
"Market Basket Measure" or "Canada's Official Poverty Line".




(4)

The minister must review the targets set in subsection (1) before
December 31, 2023 and, after doing so, may lay a report before the
Legislative Assembly respecting future targets for the reduction of
poverty.






Commitment to Indigenous peoples




4


The strategy must reflect a commitment to




(a)

reconciliation with Indigenous peoples,




(b)

the Calls to Action of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, and




(c)

the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples.






Scope of strategy




5

(1)


In developing and updating the strategy, the minister must consider




(a)

the breadth and depth of poverty, and




(b)

the full range of persons living in poverty.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the minister must consider the
following topics:




(a)

housing;




(b)

families, children and youth;




(c)

education;




(d)

employment;




(e)

income supports;




(f)

social supports.




(3)

Without limiting subsection (1), the minister must consider the
following groups:




(a)

children;




(b)

youth;




(c)

women and persons of all genders;




(d)

Indigenous peoples;




(e)

persons living with disabilities;




(f)

persons living in rural and remote communities;




(g)

immigrants and refugees;




(h)

LGBTQ2S+ persons;




(i)

seniors;




(j)

persons and families working and earning low incomes;




(k)

persons living with or fleeing abuse;




(l)

persons living with mental illness or addiction;




(m)

persons of colour.






Accessibility and coordination




6


In developing and updating the strategy, the minister must consider
the accessibility and coordination of




(a)

initiatives included in the strategy, and




(b)

supports provided to or for persons living in poverty by or on behalf
of the following:




(i)

the government;




(ii)

the government of Canada;




(iii)

Indigenous governments;




(iv)

local governments.






Description of effects




7


The strategy must include a description of the effects that the
minister intends poverty reduction and prevention to have on British
Columbians as a whole.




Division 2 — Reporting and Publication





Annual reporting




8

(1)


The minister must prepare, by October 1 of each calendar year,
beginning in 2020, a report on the previous calendar year that
describes the following:




(a)

the actions taken to implement the strategy;




(b)

the effects of the strategy on poverty reduction;




(c)

any progress made towards the targets set in section 3 (1).




(2)

An annual report on a calendar year must include the comments provided
under section 10 (4) (a) in relation to that calendar year.




(3)

The minister must lay each annual report before the Legislative
Assembly as soon as practicable and, promptly after doing so, must
post the annual report in accordance with section 9 (a).






Publication




9


The minister must




(a)

post the strategy and the annual reports on a publicly accessible
website maintained by or on behalf of the minister, and




(b)

make the strategy and the annual reports available in accessible
formats.




Part 3 — Community Involvement





Advisory committee




10

(1)


The minister must establish a committee to advise the minister on
matters relating to poverty reduction and prevention.




(2)

At least half of the members of the advisory committee must be women.




(3)

The advisory committee must include a representative from at least
each of the following groups:




(a)

Indigenous peoples;




(b)

persons living in poverty;




(c)

persons living with disabilities;




(d)

local governments;




(e)

organizations that advocate for persons living in poverty;




(f)

the business community;




(g)

unions;




(h)

academics;




(i)

persons living in rural and remote communities.




(4)

Without limiting subsection (1), the advisory committee has the
following duties:




(a)

to give the minister comments in relation to a calendar year on the
matters referred to in section 8 (1);




(b)

to advise the minister in relation to consultations under section 11.




(5)

Members of the advisory committee must be




(a)

reimbursed for reasonable travelling and out-of-pocket expenses
necessarily incurred by them in discharging their duties under this
Act, and




(b)

if they are living in poverty, paid an honorarium.






Consultations




11

(1)


In developing and updating the strategy, the minister must consult
with representatives of at least the groups referred to in section
10 (3).




(2)

Consultations under subsection (1) must be carried out in a manner
that is intended to




(a)

ensure the strategy is informed by the experiences of persons living
in poverty, and




(b)

uphold the commitment under section 4 to Indigenous peoples.






Supports for participation




12


The minister may provide monetary or other supports to or for persons
living in poverty to enable them to




(a)

serve on the advisory committee, or




(b)

participate in consultations under section 11 (1).




Part 4 — Miscellaneous





Section 5 of
Offence Act
does not apply




13


Section 5 of the

Offence Act

does not apply to this Act or the regulations.






Regulations




14


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
section 41 of the

Interpretation Act

.






Commencement




15


This Act comes into force on the date of Royal Assent.




