




Public Inquiry Act
[SBC 2007] CHAPTER 9


Assented to March 29, 2007




Part 1 — Interpretation





Definitions




1


In this Act:



"chief commissioner"

means




(a)

if only one commissioner is appointed, that commissioner, or




(b)

if more than one commissioner is appointed, the commissioner
designated as chief commissioner under section 5 (2);


"commission"
means a commission of inquiry established under section 2;



"commissioner"

means a person appointed as a commissioner under section 5;


"court"
means the Supreme Court;



"hearing commission"

means a commission designated as a hearing commission under section 2;



"information"

includes evidence and records;



"participant"

means a person who is provided with notice or is accepted as a
participant under section 11;



"study commission"

means a commission designated as a study commission under section 2.




Part 2 — Establishing a Commission of Public Inquiry



Division 1 — Establishing a Commission





Establishing a commission




2

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may, by order, establish a
commission to inquire into and report on a matter that the Lieutenant
Governor in Council considers to be of public interest.




(2)

In an order made under subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in
Council must do the following:




(a)

define the purposes of the commission;




(b)

set the terms of reference of the inquiry;




(c)

designate the commission as a study commission, hearing commission or
both;




(d)

appoint one or more commissioners in accordance with Division 2
[Appointment of Commissioners and Staff]
;




(e)

subject to any directives of Treasury Board, set the remuneration of
the commissioners and compensation for expenses, if any.






Agreements




3

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may enter into an agreement to
establish a joint commission with either or both of the following:




(a)

the government of another jurisdiction;




(b)

an aboriginal organization exercising government functions in British
Columbia.




(2)

If a joint commission is established with a government of another
jurisdiction, the Lieutenant Governor in Council may, in the order
establishing the commission, exempt the commission from all or part of
a provision of this Act or the regulations made under it if necessary
to avoid a conflict of law.






Appropriation




4


The costs and expenses incurred in connection with an inquiry under
this Act must be paid out of the consolidated revenue fund, in the
absence of an appropriation of the Legislature available for that
purpose.




Division 2 — Appointment of Commissioners and Staff





Appointment of commissioners




5

(1)


On establishing a commission, the Lieutenant Governor in Council




(a)

must appoint a commissioner to conduct the inquiry, and




(b)

may appoint other commissioners.




(2)

If more than one commissioner is appointed, the Lieutenant Governor in
Council must designate the commissioner who is to act as chief
commissioner.




(3)

Unless the Lieutenant Governor in Council states otherwise in the
appointment order, a commissioner may rely on all decisions made and
information received by any former or current commissioner of the
inquiry to which the commissioner is appointed.






Responsibilities of chief commissioner




6


The chief commissioner is responsible for




(a)

the effective management and operation of the commission,




(b)

the organization and allocation of work among commissioners, including
assigning commissioners to panels consisting of one or more
commissioners, and




(c)

ensuring that the commission is financially responsible and
accountable.






Commission staff




7

(1)


The chief commissioner may appoint employees, in accordance with the

Public Service Act

, necessary to exercise the powers and perform the duties of a
commission.




(2)

The chief commissioner may engage or retain consultants,
investigators, lawyers, expert witnesses or other persons the chief
commissioner considers necessary to exercise the powers and perform
the duties of a commission.




(3)

The

Public Service Act

does not apply to a person engaged or retained under subsection (2) of
this section.




Part 3 — Duties and Powers of Commissions



Division 1 — General Duties and Powers





Commissioner duties




8


Commissioners must faithfully, honestly and impartially perform their
duties and, except in the proper performance of those duties, must not
disclose to any person any information obtained as a commissioner.






Power to make directives




9

(1)


Subject to this Act and the commission's terms of reference, a
commission has the power to control its own processes and may make
directives respecting practice and procedure to facilitate the just
and timely fulfillment of its duties.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), a commission may make directives as
follows:




(a)

respecting timetables for the conduct of the inquiry, including
dividing the inquiry into phases;




(b)

respecting adjournments;




(c)

respecting the extension or abridgement of time limits provided for in
the directives;




(d)

respecting applications to be a participant;




(e)

respecting the transcription or recording of meetings and hearings and
the process and fees for reproduction of a transcription or recording
if a person requests one;




(f)

respecting access to, and restriction of access to, commission records
by any person;




(g)

establishing the forms it considers advisable.




(3)

For any matter under this Act for which a commission may make
directives, the commission may, for different persons or classes of
persons,




(a)

make different directives, and




(b)

waive or modify one or more of its directives as necessary.




(4)

A commission must make accessible to the public any directives made
under this Act.




(5)

A commission may make an order in respect of any matter for which a
directive has been made, or may be made, under this Act.






Power to inspect




10


Subject to this Act and the commission's terms of reference, a
commission may




(a)

conduct an inspection of a public place, including copying any records
found in that place, and




(b)

with the permission of the owner or occupier, conduct an inspection of
a private place, including copying any records found in that place.






Who may participate




11

(1)


A person may act as a participant if the person




(a)

is provided with notice under subsection (2), or




(b)

is accepted as a participant under subsection (4).




(2)

If a hearing commission intends to make a finding of misconduct
against a person, or intends to make a report that alleges misconduct
by a person, the hearing commission must first provide the person with




(a)

reasonable notice of the allegations against that person, and




(b)

notice of how that person may respond to the allegations.




(3)

A person other than one described in subsection (2) may apply to be a
participant by applying to a commission in the manner and form it
requires.




(4)

On receiving an application under subsection (3), a commission may
accept the applicant as a participant after considering all of the
following:




(a)

whether, and to what extent, the person's interests may be affected by
the findings of the commission;




(b)

whether the person's participation would further the conduct of the
inquiry;




(c)

whether the person's participation would contribute to the fairness of
the inquiry.






Powers respecting participants




12

(1)


Subject to section 13
[rights of participants]
, a commission may make orders respecting




(a)

the manner and extent of a participant's participation,




(b)

the rights and responsibilities of a participant, if any, and




(c)

any limits or conditions on a participant's participation.




(2)

In making an order under subsection (1), a commission may




(a)

make different orders for different participants or classes of
participants, and




(b)

waive or modify one or more of its orders as necessary.




(3)

In making an order under subsection (1), a hearing commission must
ensure that a participant who responds to a notice under section 11
(2) has a reasonable opportunity to be heard by the commission before
the commission makes a finding of misconduct against the participant,
or makes a report that alleges misconduct by that participant.






Rights of participants




13

(1)


A participant may




(a)

participate on the participant's own behalf, or




(b)

be represented by counsel or, with the approval of the commission, by
an agent.




(2)

A participant




(a)

has the same immunities as a witness who appears before the court, and




(b)

is considered to have objected to answering any question that may




(i)

incriminate the participant in a criminal proceeding, or




(ii)

establish the participant's liability in a civil proceeding.




(3)

Any answer provided by a participant before a commission must not be
used or admitted in evidence against the participant in any trial or
other proceedings, other than a prosecution for perjury in respect of
the answer provided.






Power to accept information




14

(1)


A commission may receive and accept information that it considers
relevant, necessary and appropriate, whether or not the information
would be admissible in any court.




(2)

Without limiting section 12
[powers respecting participants]
, a commission may exclude anything unduly repetitious.




(3)

Nothing in subsection (1) overrides the provisions of any Act
expressly limiting the extent to which or purposes for which any oral
testimony, records or things may be admitted or used in evidence.






Power to prohibit or limit attendance or access




15

(1)


A commission may, by order, prohibit or restrict a person or a class
of persons, or the public, from attending all or part of a meeting or
hearing, or from accessing all or part of any information provided to
or held by the commission,




(a)

if the government asserts privilege or immunity over the information
under section 29
[disclosure by Crown]
,




(b)

for any reason for which information could or must be withheld by a
public body under sections 15 to 19 and 21 to 22.1
[privacy rights, business interests and public interest]
of the

Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act

, or




(c)

if the commission has reason to believe that the order is necessary
for the effective and efficient fulfillment of the commission's terms
of reference.




(2)

In making an order under subsection (1), a hearing commission must not
unduly prejudice the rights and interests of a participant against
whom a finding of misconduct, or a report alleging misconduct, may be
made.






Power to maintain order




16

(1)


At a meeting or hearing, a commission may make orders or give
directions that it considers necessary for the maintenance of order at
the meeting or hearing, and, if any person disobeys or fails to comply
with any order or direction, the commission may call on the assistance
of any peace officer to enforce the order or direction.




(2)

A peace officer called on under subsection (1) may take any action
that is necessary to enforce the order or direction and may use such
force as is reasonably required for that purpose.






Participant's failure to comply with orders




17


Without limiting any other power of enforcement, if a participant
fails to comply with an order or a directive of a commission,
including any time limits specified for taking any actions, the
commission, after giving notice to the participant, may do any of the
following:




(a)

schedule a meeting or hearing;




(b)

continue with the inquiry and make a finding or recommendation based
on the information before it, with or without providing an opportunity
for submissions from that participant;




(c)

make any order necessary for the purpose of enforcing its orders or
directives.






Power to record meetings or hearings




18

(1)


A commission may transcribe or record its meetings or hearings.




(2)

If a commission transcribes or records a meeting or hearing, the
transcription or recording must be considered to be correct and to
constitute part of the record of the meeting or hearing.




(3)

If, by a mechanical or human failure or other accident, the
transcription or recording of a meeting or hearing is destroyed,
interrupted or incomplete, the validity of the meeting or hearing is
not affected.






Privative clause




19

(1)


A commission has exclusive jurisdiction to inquire into, hear and
determine all matters and questions of fact and law arising or
required to be determined under this Act and to make any order it is
permitted to make.




(2)

An order of a commission under this Act or its terms of reference on a
matter in respect of which the commission has exclusive jurisdiction
is final and conclusive and is not open to question or review in any
court.




Division 2 — Study Commissions





Powers of study commissions




20

(1)


Subject to this Act and the commission's terms of reference, a study
commission may engage in any activity necessary to effectively and
efficiently fulfill the duties of the commission, including doing any
of the following:




(a)

conducting research, including interviews and surveys;




(b)

consulting with participants, privately or in a manner that is open to
the public, either in person or through broadcast proceedings;




(c)

consulting with the public generally and, for that purpose, issuing
directives respecting any of the matters set out in subsection (2).




(2)

Without limiting the powers of a commission set out in Division 1, a
study commission may make directives respecting any of the following:




(a)

the notification of participants and the public regarding a
consultation under this section;




(b)

the holding of public meetings, including the places and times at
which public meetings will be held and the frequency of public
meetings;




(c)

the conduct of, and the maintenance of order at, public meetings;




(d)

the receipt of oral and written submissions.




(3)

A study commission must not exercise the powers of a hearing
commission as set out in sections 21 (1), 22 and 23, unless the study
commission is also designated as a hearing commission.




Division 3 — Hearing Commissions





General powers of hearing commissions




21

(1)


Subject to this Act and the commission's terms of reference, a hearing
commission may engage in any activity necessary to effectively and
efficiently fulfill the duties of the commission, including doing any
of the following:




(a)

issuing directives respecting any of the matters set out in subsection
(2);




(b)

holding written, oral and electronic hearings;




(c)

receiving submissions and evidence under oath or affirmation;




(d)

making a finding of misconduct against a person, or making a report
that alleges misconduct by a person.




(2)

Without limiting the powers of a commission set out in Division 1, a
hearing commission may make directives respecting any of the
following:




(a)

the holding of pre-hearing conferences, including confidential
pre-hearing conferences, and the requiring of one or more participants
to attend a pre-hearing conference;




(b)

procedures for preliminary or interim matters;




(c)

the receipt and disclosure of information, including but not limited
to pre-hearing receipt and disclosure and pre-hearing examination of a
participant or witness on oath, on affirmation or by affidavit;




(d)

the exchange of records by participants;




(e)

the filing of admissions and written submissions by participants;




(f)

the service and filing of notices, records and orders, including
substituted service and the requiring of participants to provide an
address for service;




(g)

without limiting any other power of the commission, the effect of a
participant's non-compliance with the commission's directives.




(3)

A hearing commission must not exercise the powers of a study
commission as set out in section 20 (1), unless the hearing commission
is also designated as a study commission.






Power to compel witnesses and order disclosure




22

(1)


At any time before making its final report, a hearing commission may
serve a summons requiring a person to do either or both of the
following:




(a)

attend, in person or by electronic means, a meeting or hearing to give
evidence on oath or affirmation, or in any other manner;




(b)

produce for the commission or a participant information or a thing in
the person's possession or control.




(2)

A person cannot be compelled to disclose to a hearing commission
anything that, in any court, would be privileged under the law of
evidence.




(3)

A hearing commission may,




(a)

if a person was summoned to appear before the commission at the
request of a participant, order the participant to pay appearance fees
and expenses reasonably and necessarily incurred by the person
summoned, other than fees and expenses incurred by the person in
respect of legal representation or advice, and




(b)

in any case, pay appearance fees and expenses reasonably and
necessarily incurred by a person summoned to appear before the
commission, other than fees and expenses incurred by the person in
respect of legal representation or advice.




(4)

A hearing commission may apportion fees and expenses under subsection
(3) between 2 or more participants, and between one or more
participants and the commission.




(5)

Subject to this Act and the hearing commission's terms of reference, a
hearing commission may make directives respecting appearance fees and
expenses reasonably and necessarily incurred by a person summoned to
appear before the commission.






Power to apply to court




23


A hearing commission may apply to the court for any of the following:




(a)

an order directing a person to comply with a summons served by the
commission under section 22;




(b)

an order directing any directors and officers of a person to cause the
person to comply with a summons served by the commission under section
22;




(c)

a warrant authorizing the commission to conduct an inspection of a
private place, including copying any records found in that place;




(d)

an order finding a person to be in contempt, as if in breach of an
order or a judgment of the court, for failing or refusing to comply
with a summons to




(i)

attend a meeting or hearing before the commission,




(ii)

take an oath or make an affirmation,




(iii)

answer questions, or




(iv)

produce information or things in the person's possession or control;




(e)

an order finding a person to be in contempt, as if in breach of an
order or a judgment of the court, for failing or refusing to comply
with an order or a directive of the commission;




(f)

an order finding a person to be in contempt, as if in breach of an
order or a judgment of the court, for a reason other than as set out
in paragraph (d) or (e) of this section.






Service of notice or records




24

(1)


A hearing commission may provide a notice or record to a person by
personal service of a copy of the notice or record or by sending the
copy to the person by any of the following means:




(a)

ordinary mail;




(b)

electronic transmission, including telephone transmission of a
facsimile;




(c)

if specified in the hearing commission's directives, another method
that allows proof of receipt.




(2)

If a hearing commission is of the opinion that, because there are many
participants or for any other reason, it is impracticable to give
notice of a hearing to a participant directly or by a method referred
to in subsection (1), the commission may give notice of a hearing by
public advertisement or otherwise as the commission directs.




(3)

If a notice or record is not served on a person in accordance with
this Act or the regulations made under it, an inquiry is not
invalidated if




(a)

the contents of the notice or record were known by the person within
the time allowed for service,




(b)

the person waives the requirements of service, or




(c)

the failure to serve does not result in prejudice to the person, or
any resulting prejudice can be satisfactorily addressed by an
adjournment or other means.






Hearings open to public




25


Subject to section 15
[power to prohibit or limit attendance or access]
, a hearing commission must




(a)

ensure that hearings are open to the public, either in person or
through broadcast proceedings, and




(b)

give the public access to information submitted in a hearing.






Application of
Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act




26

(1)


The

Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act

, other than section 44 (1) (b), (2), (2.1) and (3)

[powers of commissioner in conducting investigations, audits or
inquiries]

, does not apply to any of the following in respect of a hearing
commission:




(a)

a personal note, communication or draft report of a commissioner or of
a person acting on behalf of or under the direction of a commissioner;




(b)

any information received by the commission to which section 15
[power to prohibit or limit attendance or access]
or 29
[disclosure by Crown]
of this Act applies;




(c)

a transcription or recording of a hearing;




(d)

information to which public access is provided by the commission.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply to personal information, as defined in
the

Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act

, that has been in existence for 100 or more years or to other
information that has been in existence for 50 or more years.




Division 4 — Reporting





Interim report




27

(1)


If required by the commission's terms of reference, a commission must
make an interim report to the minister at the times and on the matters
stated in the terms of reference.




(2)

A commission may make an interim report to the minister on any matter
relevant to the commission's terms of reference at any time before the
commission makes its final report.




(3)

Section 28 (2) to (8) applies to an interim report as if it were a
final report.






Final report




28

(1)


A commission must make its final report to the minister in writing,
setting out




(a)

any findings of fact made by the commission that are relevant to the
commission's terms of reference, and the reasons for those findings,
and




(b)

if required by the commission's terms of reference, any
recommendations of the commission.




(2)

The minister must submit the report to the Executive Council at its
next meeting.




(3)

On receiving the report, the Executive Council may direct the minister
to withhold portions of the report for any reason for which
information could or must be withheld by a public body under sections
15 to 19 and 21 to 22.1
[privacy rights, business interests and public interest]
of the

Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act

.




(4)

Following review of the report, the Executive Council must direct the
minister to lay the report, except any portion directed to be withheld
under subsection (3), before the Legislative Assembly.




(5)

On receiving a direction under subsection (4), the minister must




(a)

remove any portions to be withheld,




(b)

in the report, identify any withheld portions and, to the extent
possible, summarize them, and




(c)

either




(i)

if the Legislative Assembly is in session, or will be within 10 days
of receiving the direction, promptly lay the report before the
Legislative Assembly, or




(ii)

in any other case, promptly file the report with the Clerk of the
Legislative Assembly.




(6)

If a report includes a finding of misconduct against a participant, or
alleges misconduct by a participant, the minister must make available
to the participant a copy of the report.




(7)

Despite the

Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act

, if, after a report is laid before the Legislative Assembly, a person
makes a request under section 5 of that Act for information in
relation to the report, the head of a public body must not refuse to
disclose information on any basis on which disclosure must or may be
refused under section 12 of that Act.




(8)

A person must not release a report of a commission except in
accordance with this section.




Part 4 — General





Disclosure by Crown




29

(1)


If the government discloses to a commission, either voluntarily or in
response to a request or summons, any information over which the
government asserts privilege or immunity, the privilege or immunity is
not waived or defeated for any other purpose by the disclosure.




(2)

If a commission determines that it is necessary to disclose
information over which the government asserts privilege or immunity,
the privilege or immunity is not waived or defeated for any other
purpose by the disclosure.






Responsibility for records




30


Following the completion or termination of an inquiry, the minister
has primary responsibility for the final report and all records of the
commission.






Compulsion protection




31


A commissioner, or a person acting on behalf of or under the direction
of a commissioner, must not be required to testify or produce evidence
in any proceeding, other than a criminal proceeding, about information
obtained in the discharge of duties under this Act.






Immunity protection




32

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), no legal proceeding for damages lies or may
be commenced or maintained against a commission, a commissioner, a
person acting on behalf of or under the direction of a commissioner,
or the government, because of anything done or omitted




(a)

in the performance or intended performance of any duty under this Act,
or




(b)

in the exercise or intended exercise of any power under this Act.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply to a person referred to in that
subsection in relation to anything done or omitted by that person in
bad faith.






Power to make regulations




33

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
section 41 of the

Interpretation Act

.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations respecting the following:




(a)

service of notice or records by a commission or a participant;




(b)

appearance fees and expenses reasonably and necessarily incurred by
participants.




(3)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make different regulations
under subsections (1) and (2) for




(a)

study commissions and hearing commissions, and




(b)

specified commissions.




Part 5 — Repeal and Transition





Repeal




34


The

Inquiry Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 224, is repealed.






Repealed




35


[Repealed 2007-9-35 (2).]




Part 6 — General Consequential Amendments



General Consequential Amendments









[Note: See Table of Legislative Changes for the status of sections
36 to 41.]









Section(s)





Affected Act






36





Agricultural Land Commission Act






37





Local Government Act






38-39





Police Act






40





School Act






41





Vancouver Charter








Part 7 — Consequential Amendments of Statutes Not Requiring Commissioner
Powers, Duties or Protections




Consequential Amendments of Statutes Not Requiring Commissioner
Powers, Duties or Protections










[Note: See Table of Legislative Changes for the status of sections
42 to 44.]









Section(s)





Affected Act






42





Gaming Control Act






43





Legislative Procedure Review Act






44





Marriage Act








Part 8 — Consequential Amendments Concerning Administrative Hearings




Consequential Amendments Concerning Administrative Hearings










[Note: See Table of Legislative Changes for the status of sections
45 to 66.]









Section(s)





Affected Act






45-46





Agrologists Act






47-48





College of Applied Biology Act






49





Environmental Management Act






50





Farm Practices Protection (Right to Farm) Act






51-52





Foresters Act






53





Health Emergency Act






54-55





Legal Profession Act






56





Medicare Protection Act






57





Motor Dealer Act






58





Notaries Act






59





Public Sector Pension Plans Act






60





Real Estate Development Marketing Act






61-62





Real Estate Services Act






63





Secure Care Act






64-66





Teaching Profession Act








Part 9 — Consequential Amendments Concerning Statutory and Other
Decision Makers




Consequential Amendments Concerning Statutory and Other Decision
Makers










[Note: See Table of Legislative Changes for the status of sections
67 to 109.]









Section(s)





Affected Act






67





Corporation Capital Tax Act






68-69





Correction Act






70





Debtor Assistance Act






71-72





Electoral Boundaries Commission Act






73





Employment Standards Act






74-75





Financial Administration Act






76-78





Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act






79-80





Health Act






81-82





Indian Advisory Act






83-86





Labour Relations Code






87-88





Logging Tax Act






89-90





Mineral Tenure Act






91





Mines Act






92-94





Ministry of Energy and Mines Act






95-98





Personal Information Protection Act






99-101





Private Investigators and Security Agencies Act






102





Public Service Act






103-104



Railway and Ferries Bargaining Assistance Act




105





Representative for Children and Youth Act






106





Vancouver Charter






107




Water Act





108-109





Youth Justice Act








Part 10 — Consequential Amendments to Provide Direct Contempt Powers




Consequential Amendments to Provide Direct Contempt Powers










[Note: See Table of Legislative Changes for the status of sections
110 to 115.]









Section(s)





Affected Act






110-111





Members' Conflict of Interest Act






112-113





Police Act






114-115





Provincial Court Act








Part 11 — Consequential Amendments of Statutes That Provide for Public
Inquiries




Consequential Amendments of Statutes That Provide for Public Inquiries










[Note: See Table of Legislative Changes for the status of sections
116 to 126.]









Section(s)





Affected Act






116



Crown Counsel Agreement Continuation Act




117



Education Services Collective Agreement Act




118





Environmental Assessment Act






119





Environmental Management Act






120





Health Professions Act






121





Labour Relations Code






122




Local Government Act





123





Ministry of Labour Act






124




Public Education Support Staff Collective Bargaining Assistance
Act





125



Railway and Ferries Bargaining Assistance Act




126





Real Estate Services Act








Part 12 — Related Consequential Amendments



Related Consequential Amendments









[Note: See Table of Legislative Changes for the status of sections
127 to 133.]









Section(s)





Affected Act






127





Administrative Tribunals Act






128





Adoption Act






129





Child, Family and Community Service Act






130





Evidence Act






131





Family Relations Act






132





Securities Act






133





Statistics Act










Commencement




134


This Act comes into force by regulation of the Lieutenant Governor in
Council.




