




Public Guardian and Trustee Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 383






Definitions




1


In this Act:


"adult"
means anyone who has reached 19 years of age;


"court"
means the Supreme Court;



"enduring power of attorney"

means an enduring power of attorney made under Part 2 of the

Power of Attorney Act

;


"guardian"
means, except in sections 7 and 8, a committee under the

Patients Property Act

;



"operating account"

means the Public Guardian and Trustee Operating Account established
under section 24;



"power of attorney"

means a power of attorney other than an enduring power of attorney;



"representation agreement"

means an agreement made under the

Representation Agreement Act

;



"representative"

means a representative authorized to act under a representation
agreement;



"trust fund account"

means the Public Guardian and Trustee Trust Fund Account established
under section 9;



"young person"

means anyone under 19 years of age.




Part 1 — Office, Staff and Management





Corporate identity and appointment of Public Guardian and Trustee




2

(1)


The Public Guardian and Trustee is a corporation sole under the
corporate name of "Public Guardian and Trustee".




(2)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may appoint, under the

Public Service Act

, as Public Guardian and Trustee a person who meets the criteria
established under section 28 (2) (a).




(3)

The Public Guardian and Trustee holds office for a term of 6 years and
the appointment may be renewed once for a further term of
6 years.




(4)

If a new Public Guardian and Trustee is appointed, the predecessor
must deliver all records and things in the predecessor's custody or
control as Public Guardian and Trustee to the new Public Guardian and
Trustee.






Appointment of the Deputy Public Guardian and Trustee and staff




3

(1)


The Public Guardian and Trustee may appoint, under the

Public Service Act

, one or more deputies.




(2)

A deputy public guardian and trustee may




(a)

affix and authenticate the seal of the Public Guardian and Trustee,




(b)

perform any duties that are assigned or delegated to the deputy public
guardian and trustee by the Public Guardian and Trustee, and




(c)

perform the duties of the Public Guardian and Trustee, if that officer
is absent or if the office is vacant.




(3)

Anything done by a deputy public guardian and trustee under this
section has the same effect as if it had been done by the Public
Guardian and Trustee.




(4)

Employees required for the proper conduct of the business of the
Public Guardian and Trustee may be appointed under the

Public Service Act

.






Repealed




4


[Repealed 2002-63-19.]




Part 2 — Powers, Duties, Functions and Liability





General powers, duties and functions




5

(1)


The Public Guardian and Trustee has the powers, duties and functions
given




(a)

to the Public Guardian and Trustee by this Act or another Act,




(b)

to the Public Guardian and Trustee by regulation, and




(c)

to the corporations that the Public Guardian and Trustee succeeds to
under section 29 (1).




(2)

In exercising powers or performing duties or functions under an Act
referred to in subsection (1), the Public Guardian and Trustee must be
guided by the principles or purposes set out in that Act.






Powers as executor, administrator, trustee or attorney




6


The Public Guardian and Trustee may




(a)

act as an executor under a will or as an administrator of an estate,




(b)

act, either alone or jointly with another person, as a trustee if the
Public Guardian and Trustee is appointed a trustee




(i)

in a will, settlement or other instrument creating the trust,




(ii)

by a majority of a trust's beneficiaries who have reached 19 years of
age and are otherwise capable of making the appointment,




(iii)

by a court,




(iv)

by a statute, or




(v)

by agreement of the Public Guardian and Trustee, and




(c)

act as attorney of a person in accordance with the terms of a power of
attorney or an enduring power of attorney.






Litigation representative of deceased




6.1

(1)


In this section,
"litigation representative"
means a person who is appointed by the court to represent, in an
action or other legal proceeding, the estate of a deceased party for
whom no other legal personal representative exists.




(2)

The court must not appoint the Public Guardian and Trustee as the
litigation representative of a deceased's estate unless




(a)

the deceased left no executor, beneficiary, heir or other appropriate
person who is willing and competent to act, and




(b)

the Public Guardian and Trustee provides prior written consent to act
as the litigation representative.




(3)

A person who requested the court to appoint the Public Guardian and
Trustee as litigation representative under subsection (2) must pay, in
addition to any other fee imposed by this Act or the regulations, all
expenses incurred by the Public Guardian and Trustee resulting from
the appointment.






Director of company




6.2


Despite section 124 of the

Business Corporations Act

, the Public Guardian and Trustee may, as a corporation sole, become
and act as a director of a company if




(a)

the Public Guardian and Trustee is




(i)

guardian of a person who is the sole shareholder of the company,




(ii)

appointed curator, under the

Estates of Missing Persons Act

, of the estate of a missing person who is the sole shareholder of the
company, or




(iii)

an executor under the will or administrator of the estate of a
deceased person who, immediately before the person's death, was the
sole shareholder of the company, and




(b)

in the opinion of the Public Guardian and Trustee, it is necessary to




(i)

protect the person's interest in the company or, if the person is
missing or deceased, protect the interest of the person's estate in
the company, or




(ii)

wind up or dissolve the company.






Powers as guardian of financial or legal affairs of young person




7

(1)


If appointed under a court order or enactment as a young person's
property guardian, the Public Guardian and Trustee is a trustee of all
property that comes into the control of, or is held by, the Public
Guardian and Trustee on behalf of the young person.




(2)

If a young person's property guardian, the Public Guardian and Trustee
may act as litigation guardian for the young person in making or
defending claims brought for or against the young person as the Public
Guardian and Trustee considers advisable and in the young person's
best interests.




(3)

If a litigation guardian is required for a young person under the

Court Rules Act

and is not otherwise provided for by the

Infants Act

, the Public Guardian and Trustee must act as litigation guardian for
the young person if the Public Guardian and Trustee considers it is in
the young person's best interests to do so.






Use of trust money for young adult's benefit




7.1


If acting as trustee under section 6 (b) (v) for an adult




(a)

who has not yet reached 27 years of age, and




(b)

who, until reaching 19 years of age,




(i)

was in the continuing custody of the director under the

Child, Family and Community Service Act

and had the Public Guardian and Trustee acting as property guardian,




(ii)

was under the property guardianship of the Public Guardian and Trustee
under section 51 of the

Infants Act

,
or





(
iii
)



was under the property guardianship of the Public Guardian and
Trustee in accordance with an agreement entered into under section
51.1 of the




Child, Family and Community Service Act



,


the Public Guardian and Trustee may, during the term of the
trusteeship, authorize payment of all or part of the trust money for
the maintenance, education or benefit of the adult.






Duty to comply with
Trustee Act




8


If acting as trustee under section 6 (b) or as a young person's
property guardian under section 7 (1), the Public Guardian and Trustee
must comply with the

Trustee Act

unless this Act, the regulations, a court order or an instrument that
provides for the Public Guardian and Trustee's appointment as trustee
or guardian provides otherwise.






Public Guardian and Trustee Trust Fund Account




9

(1)


The Public Guardian and Trustee Trust Fund Account is established.




(2)

The Public Guardian and Trustee must keep and control the trust fund
account and must place in it




(a)

the balance in the Public Trustee Trust Fund Account on the date this
section comes into force, and




(b)

money received by the Public Guardian and Trustee on behalf of a
person or estate under this Act, any other enactment or under a deed,
agreement or court order.




(3)

Money in the trust fund account must be invested in a common fund
under section 12 unless the money




(a)

is immediately required for payment, or




(b)

is to be invested under section 13.




(4)

Until money in the trust fund account is invested, the Public Guardian
and Trustee may deposit the money in a single account




(a)

in a bank, trust company or credit union,




(b)

in any other corporation that is authorized under the laws of British
Columbia to accept money for deposit and that has been approved for
that purpose by the Lieutenant Governor in Council, or




(c)

with the Minister of Finance.




(5)

Subsection (4) applies despite section 19 of the

Trustee Act

.






Investment advisory committee




10

(1)


The Public Guardian and Trustee must establish a committee to advise
the Public Guardian and Trustee on




(a)

developing and implementing strategic policies for investing money
placed in the trust fund account,




(b)

monitoring investment performance and evaluating investment results on
a regular basis, and




(c)

performing other related functions and duties.




(2)

The committee is to consist of not less than 3 and not more than 6
members, in addition to the Public Guardian and Trustee.




(3)

The Public Guardian and Trustee must appoint the other members of the
committee and chair the committee.




(4)

The members of the committee are entitled to be paid an allowance for
reasonable travelling and incidental expenses necessarily incurred in
carrying out the business of the committee.




(5)

In addition, the members of the committee, other than the Public
Guardian and Trustee, may be paid for their services an amount that
the Lieutenant Governor in Council determines.






Investment powers and duties




11


For the purposes of investing money, the Public Guardian and Trustee
has the powers and is subject to the duties of a trustee under the

Trustee Act

, except as otherwise expressly provided in a court order, an
instrument, this Act or a regulation.






Common funds




12

(1)


For the purpose of investing money, the Public Guardian and Trustee
must create at least one common fund within the trust fund account.




(2)

If more than one common fund is created, the Public Guardian and
Trustee may




(a)

develop systems governing how earnings and costs of those common funds
are to be apportioned among the common funds, and




(b)

consolidate into one common fund any 2 or more common funds created
under subsection (1).




(3)

After consulting with the committee established under section 10, the
Public Guardian and Trustee must draw up a statement of strategic
investment policies and objectives for investing money in a common
fund created under this section.




(4)

Money in the common funds must be placed with the Minister of Finance
for investment subject to the strategic investment policies and
objectives drawn up under subsection (3), unless the Minister of
Finance directs that the money remain with the Public Guardian and
Trustee for investment.




(5)

Any money placed with the Minister of Finance under subsection (4) is
deemed to have been placed under section 40 (5) of the

Financial Administration Act

.




(6)

Money to be invested by the Minister of Finance under
subsection (4) is trust funds for the purposes of
sections 40 to 44 of the

Financial Administration Act

and the Public Guardian and Trustee is the trustee of the money.




(7)

In accordance with the statement of strategic investment policies and
objectives drawn up under subsection (3), the Minister of Finance must
prepare quarterly reports for the Public Guardian and Trustee
outlining the investment performance of all funds invested by that
minister under subsection (4).




(8)

No money in a common fund may be invested under this section in a
pooled fund unless the policies and objectives of the pooled fund are
consistent with the statement of investment policies and objectives
drawn up under subsection (3).




(9)

An investment of money in a common fund created under this section is
not made on account of or for the benefit of a particular estate or
person and the investment does not belong to a particular estate or
person.




(10)

The interest of an estate or person entitled to a share or interest in
a common fund created under this section is in common with the
interest of all other estates and persons entitled to a share or
interest in the common fund.




(11)

The Public Guardian and Trustee may deduct from the income earned by a
common fund prescribed fees and expenses for operating and maintaining
the common fund.




(12)

The Public Guardian and Trustee must allocate earnings, in accordance
with the regulations, to the credit of the persons and estates for
whom the investment was made.






Separate investments




13

(1)


The Public Guardian and Trustee may make investments separate from the
common funds in the name of a person or estate for whom the Public
Guardian and Trustee holds money if




(a)

the money is subject to an express trust or direction for investment,
or




(b)

it is, for any other reason, in the best interests of the person or
estate to do so.




(2)

The Public Guardian and Trustee may deduct from the income earned by
investments under this section prescribed fees and expenses.






Registration and custody of investments




14


Investments made by the Public Guardian and Trustee




(a)

may be registered in the name of a bank or trust company or the
nominee of either, as long as it is apparent that the Public Guardian
and Trustee is the beneficial owner, and




(b)

may be kept in the custody of a bank or trust company or of the
Minister of Finance, or be maintained in a book based system by a
depository for securities.






Not in force. Repealed.




15


[Not in force. Repealed 2006-33-1.]






Power to make loans




16

(1)


The Public Guardian and Trustee may make a temporary loan from the
operating account to the account of a person whose estate is
administered by the Public Guardian and Trustee.




(2)

A loan made under subsection (1)




(a)

is a first lien or charge in favour of the Public Guardian and Trustee
on all the property and assets of the estate of the person to whom the
loan is made, and




(b)

has priority over all other charges or encumbrances of that estate,
except a lien for wages.




(3)

Loans made under subsection (1) are subject to prescribed terms and
conditions, and to prescribed rates of interest.






Power to investigate and audit




17

(1)


The Public Guardian and Trustee may investigate and audit the affairs,
dealings and accounts of




(a)

a trust, a beneficiary of which is or may be




(i)

a young person,




(ii)

an adult who has a guardian, or




(iii)

an adult who does not have a guardian but who is apparently abused or
neglected, as defined in the

Adult Guardianship Act

,




(b)

an adult who does not have a guardian, a representative or an attorney
under an enduring power of attorney but who is apparently abused or
neglected, as defined in the

Adult Guardianship Act

,




(c)

an attorney under a power of attorney or an enduring power of
attorney, if the Public Guardian and Trustee has reason to believe
that the person who granted the power of attorney or enduring power of
attorney is incapable of managing the person's financial affairs,
business or assets,




(d)

a representative, or




(e)

a guardian,


if the Public Guardian and Trustee has reason to believe that the
interest in the trust, or the assets of the young person or adult, may
be at risk, or that the representative, guardian or attorney has
failed to comply with the duties of the representative, guardian or
attorney.




(2)

In addition, the Public Guardian and Trustee may investigate the
personal care and health care decisions made by a representative or
guardian, if the Public Guardian and Trustee has reason to believe the
representative or guardian has failed to comply with the duties of the
representative or guardian.




(3)

Despite the

Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act

, the Public Guardian and Trustee must not disclose or be compelled to
disclose the identity of a person who makes a report resulting in an
investigation or audit under this section.




(4)

Nothing in subsection (1) of this section requires the Public Guardian
and Trustee to investigate and audit the affairs, dealings and
accounts of a guardian who receives property on behalf of a young
person under section 178 (2) (a) (ii) of the

Family Law Act

.






Production of accounts and records




18

(1)


In this section and section 19,
"Public Guardian and Trustee"
includes a person authorized in writing by the Public Guardian and
Trustee.




(2)

In addition to any powers given in another Act, in making an
investigation or audit the Public Guardian and Trustee may do one or
more of the following:




(a)

for an investigation or audit under section 17 (1),




(i)

require the trustee, attorney, representative or guardian to produce
any accounts, securities or other records, and




(ii)

require a person, institution or other body having records relating to
the financial affairs, business or assets of the young person or adult
to produce any accounts, securities or other records


the Public Guardian and Trustee considers necessary for the
investigation or audit, including any report or information relevant
to the incapability of an adult;




(b)

for an investigation under section 17 (2),




(i)

require the representative or guardian to produce any records relating
to the personal care and health care decisions, and




(ii)

require a person, institution or other body having records relating to
the personal care or health care decisions to produce any personal
care or health care records, including any report or information
relevant to the incapability of an adult;




(c)

inspect and copy any records produced under paragraph (a) or (b);




(d)

for an investigation or audit under section 17 (1) or (2), require the
trustee, attorney, representative or guardian, or a monitor under a
representation agreement, to provide any report, information or
explanation the Public Guardian and Trustee considers necessary for
the investigation or audit.




(3)

A person, institution or other body that is required under subsection
(2) to produce accounts, securities or other records or to provide a
report, information or explanation




(a)

subject to section 51 (5) and (6) of the

Evidence Act

, must comply, and




(b)

is not liable for breach of confidentiality for releasing information
under this section.




(4)

If a person, institution or other body mentioned in subsection (2)
refuses or fails to produce the accounts, securities or other records
or to provide the reports, information or explanations required under
that subsection, the Public Guardian and Trustee may apply to the
court for an order.




(5)

On application under subsection (4), the court may order the person,
institution or other body to produce the accounts, securities or other
records, or to provide the reports information or explanations, to the
Public Guardian and Trustee within a time set by the court.




(6)

If the person, institution or other body does not comply with the
order under subsection (5), the court may, on the application of the
Public Guardian and Trustee, make an order authorizing the Public
Guardian and Trustee to




(a)

enter any premises where the accounts, securities or other records
sought by the Public Guardian and Trustee are believed to be located,
and




(b)

inspect, or copy anything the Public Guardian and Trustee considers
relevant to the investigation or audit.






Protection of assets in urgent cases




19

(1)


In this section,
"adult"
means an adult who is apparently abused or neglected, as defined in
the

Adult Guardianship Act

.




(2)

If the Public Guardian and Trustee has reason to believe that the
financial affairs, business or assets of a young person or an adult
are in need of immediate protection, the Public Guardian and Trustee
may do one or more of the following:




(a)

instruct any institution where the young person or the adult has an
account that no funds are to be withdrawn from or paid out of that
account until further notice;




(b)

direct any source of income for the young person or the adult to send
the income to the Public Guardian and Trustee or to a person named by
the Public Guardian and Trustee




(i)

to be held in trust for the young person or adult, or




(ii)

to be used to protect or maintain the health or safety of the young
person or adult;




(c)

halt any disposition of real or personal property belonging to the
young person or adult;




(d)

take any other step that is necessary to protect the financial
affairs, business or assets of the young person or adult and that is
reasonable in the circumstances.




(3)

A step taken under subsection (2) remains in effect for 30 days or a
shorter period set by the Public Guardian and Trustee.




(4)

A step taken under subsection (2) may be renewed, but




(a)

each renewal period must not be longer than 30 days, and




(b)

the step taken must not continue for longer than a total of 120 days.






Power to delegate




20

(1)


The Public Guardian and Trustee may, in writing, authorize an officer
or employee of the Public Guardian and Trustee to do any act or other
thing required to be done by the Public Guardian and Trustee.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the Public Guardian and Trustee may
authorize an officer or employee to sign a document requiring the
signature of the Public Guardian and Trustee.




(3)

The authority given to an officer or employee under this section may
be general or apply to a particular case.




(4)

A document signed by a person authorized under this section has the
same effect as if the document had been signed by the Public Guardian
and Trustee.






Public Guardian and Trustee's liability




21

(1)


The Public Guardian and Trustee, or an officer or employee of the
Public Guardian and Trustee, is not liable for any loss for which a
private trustee would not be liable in similar circumstances.




(2)

Any money required to discharge any liability




(a)

that the Public Guardian and Trustee, if the Public Guardian and
Trustee were a private trustee, would be personally liable to
discharge, or




(b)

that arises out of an error or omission of the Public Guardian and
Trustee, or of an officer or employee of the Public Guardian and
Trustee, in the course of carrying out duties under this or another
Act, other than the duties of a trustee


must be paid out of the consolidated revenue fund.




(3)

If a claim is made against the Public Guardian and Trustee and the
Attorney General certifies




(a)

that the claim, if pursued, could result in a judgment against the
Public Guardian and Trustee, and




(b)

that it is in the public interest to settle the claim in an amount set
out in the certificate,


the amount set out in the certificate must be paid out of the
consolidated revenue fund to the person making the claim.




(4)

If an action or other proceeding has been commenced against the Public
Guardian and Trustee and the Attorney General certifies that it is in
the public interest to pay money into court, the amount set out in the
certificate must be paid into court out of the consolidated revenue
fund.




(5)

If the amount to be set out in a certificate under subsection (3) or
(4) is more than a prescribed amount, the Attorney General must obtain
the approval of the Treasury Board before issuing the certificate.




(6)

Amounts paid out under this section must be included in the report
referred to in section 15 of the

Crown Proceeding Act

.




(7)

The court that renders a judgment in a claim, action or proceeding
against the Public Guardian and Trustee, or to which an appeal against
that judgment lies, may direct that payment of the whole of the amount
payable, or any part of it, is suspended pending an appeal or
otherwise.




(8)

No execution, attachment or other process of that nature may be issued
out of a court for enforcing payment of money by the government under
this section.




Part 3 — Planning, Financing and Accountability





Service delivery plan




22

(1)


The Public Guardian and Trustee must deliver to the Attorney General,
for approval, a service delivery plan not later than 3 months
before the beginning of each fiscal year.




(2)

The service delivery plan must specify for each program area, for the
fiscal year about to begin and for each of the following 2 fiscal
years,




(a)

the objectives of the program area,




(b)

the nature and the scope of activities to be undertaken,




(c)

the performance targets and other measures by which the performance of
the program area may be assessed,




(d)

a forecast of revenues to be collected,




(e)

an estimate of the funding required to meet the objectives of the
program area, and




(f)

an estimate of the amount of surplus or deficit and the cash balance
remaining in the operating account for each fiscal year.




(3)

If the Attorney General approves the service delivery plan, the Public
Guardian and Trustee must submit it to Treasury Board for approval.




(4)

The Public Guardian and Trustee may modify the service delivery plan
at any time with the approval of the Attorney General and Treasury
Board.






Fees and recoveries




23

(1)


On the recommendation of Treasury Board, the Lieutenant Governor in
Council may make regulations prescribing fees or a scale of fees,
including commissions and charges, payable to the Public Guardian and
Trustee for performing a duty or service or for acting as trustee
under this Act, another enactment or an agreement.




(1.1)

This section prevails over a provision in any other Act relating to
fees.




(2)

The regulations referred to in subsection (1) may




(a)

prescribe to whom and at what time any fee must be paid,




(b)

prescribe the source of funds, including the estate of a person, from
which fees may be taken,




(b.1)

prescribe fees for services performed by employees and agents of the
Public Guardian and Trustee,




(b.2)

prescribe the manner in which fees are to be calculated, including,
alone or in combination, any of the following:




(i)

as a percentage of the income or capital of the estate;




(ii)

based on a flat rate;




(iii)

as an hourly charge;




(iv)

based on the actual costs incurred,




(c)

allow the Public Guardian and Trustee to excuse a person from paying a
fee or to refund a fee in cases of hardship or unfairness, and




(d)

provide for the delegation by the Public Guardian and Trustee to other
persons of the power to excuse or refund fees.




(3)

Subsection (2) (c) applies despite section 19 of the

Financial Administration Act

.




(4)

In addition, the Public Guardian and Trustee may recover costs
incurred and loans made in performing a duty or delivering services
under this Act, another enactment or an agreement.




(5) and (6)

[Repealed 2003-37-42.]






Public Guardian and Trustee Operating Account




24

(1)


The Public Guardian and Trustee Operating Account is established as a
special account in the general fund of the consolidated revenue fund.




(2)

The following money must be paid into the operating account:




(a)

the balance in the Public Trustee Operating Account on the date this
section comes into force;




(b)

money received by the Public Guardian and Trustee as fees,
commissions, charges or recoveries of costs;




(c)

money transferred to the operating account from a vote, as defined in
the

Financial Administration Act

;




(d)

money that the Minister of Finance directs to be paid into the
operating account.




(3)

The Public Guardian and Trustee may require the Minister of Finance to
make payments out of the operating account for the purposes of paying
for the costs involved in providing services and operating the office.






Public Guardian and Trustee's report




25

(1)


The Public Guardian and Trustee must report in each fiscal year to the
Attorney General on the operations of the office for the preceding
fiscal year.




(2)

The report must be made by September 30 following the preceding fiscal
year end.




(3)

The report of the Public Guardian and Trustee must contain




(a)

audited financial statements on the stewardship of trusts and estates
under administration,




(b)

audited financial statements on the operations of the office of the
Public Guardian and Trustee,




(c)

a statement of the extent to which the office of the Public Guardian
and Trustee has met the performance targets and other objectives
established in the service delivery plan under section 22, and




(d)

the report referred to in section 26 (1) (b) or (1.1).




(4)

The Attorney General must promptly lay a copy of the report before the
Legislative Assembly if it is in session and, if it is not then in
session, within 30 days after the beginning of the next session.






Audit




26

(1)


Unless the Auditor General is appointed in accordance with the

Auditor General Act

as the auditor of the Public Guardian and Trustee, the Public Guardian
and Trustee must appoint an auditor to




(a)

audit the financial statements of the office of the Public Guardian
and Trustee each year, and




(b)

report on the Public Guardian and Trustee's statement under section 25
(3) (c) of this Act.




(1.1)

If the Auditor General is appointed in accordance with the

Auditor General Act

as the auditor of the Public Guardian and Trustee, the Auditor General
must also report on the Public Guardian and Trustee's statement under
section 25 (3) (c) of this Act.




(2)

The Minister of Finance or the Attorney General may audit, at any
time, the books, accounts and financial statements of the Public
Guardian and Trustee.




Part 4 — Other Provisions





Repealed




27

(1) to (3)


[Repealed 2002-63-21.]




(4) and (5)

[Not in force. Repealed 2002-63-23.]




(6)

[Repealed 2002-63-21.]






Unclaimed money




27.1

(1)


In this section,
"administrator"
has the same meaning as in the

Unclaimed Property Act

.




(1.1)

If a person who has a legal or equitable interest in all or part of
money held by the Public Guardian and Trustee on behalf of a person or
estate does not claim the money within the applicable period
prescribed for the purposes of this section, the Public Guardian and
Trustee must pay the money to the administrator.




(2)

Money paid to the administrator under subsection (1.1) is deemed to be
an unclaimed money deposit under the

Unclaimed Property Act

.






Power to make regulations




28

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
section 41 of the

Interpretation Act

.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations as follows:




(a)

establishing the criteria for eligibility for appointment as Public
Guardian and Trustee;




(b)

authorizing the Public Guardian and Trustee to invest in specified
types of investments in addition to investments permitted under the
provisions of the

Trustee Act

respecting the investment of trust property by a trustee;




(c)

establishing, for the purposes of section 12 (12), the method for
allocating investment earnings of a common fund to the credit of the
persons for whom the investment was made;




(d)

establishing terms and conditions under which loans may be made under
section 16 and prescribing the rate of interest payable on those
loans;




(e)

prescribing different limits for different claims, or different
classes of claims, that may be settled under section 21;




(e.1)

prescribing, by reference to events specified by the Public Guardian
and Trustee or otherwise, time periods for the purposes of section
27.1;




(f)

providing for the resolution by the Public Guardian and Trustee of
complaints about services delivered to people and decisions made on
their behalf by the Public Guardian and Trustee.




(3)

A regulation under subsection (2) (e.1) may provide differently for
money held by the Public Guardian and Trustee under different
authorities.




(4)

[Repealed 2002-33-15.]






The offices the Public Guardian and Trustee succeeds to




29

(1)


The Public Guardian and Trustee is the successor in office of




(a)

the corporation sole formerly known as the Public Trustee,




(b)

the corporation sole formerly known as the Official Guardian,




(c)

the corporation sole formerly known as the Official Administrator for
the Province of British Columbia, and




(d)

the Official Administrator for the County of Vancouver and all other
counties within the Province.




(2)

Property vested in any of the officers referred to in subsection (1)
vests in the Public Guardian and Trustee.




(3)

A reference to the Public Trustee, Official Guardian, Official
Committee or Official Administrator in a contract, licence, order or
other document made or issued before this section comes into force is
deemed to be a reference to the Public Guardian and Trustee.






Power to amend other enactments for references to Act and office




30


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may by regulation, strike out a
reference in any enactment to "Public Trustee" or "

Public Trustee Act

" and substitute "Public Guardian and Trustee" and "
Public Guardian and Trustee Act
" respectively.






Commencement




31


This Act comes into force by regulation of the Lieutenant Governor in
Council.




