




Range Act
[SBC 2004] CHAPTER 71


Assented to October 21, 2004






Definitions and interpretation




1

(1)


In this Act:



"animal unit month"

means 450 kg of forage, measured on a dry matter basis, being the
amount of forage that would sustain




(a)

for one month, an average cow of the genus bos with an unweaned calf
born in the current calendar year, or




(b)

for a period longer or shorter than one month, an animal within a
class or species of animal described in the definition of "livestock",
depending on the type of animal, its stage of development, or both;


"commission"
means the Forest Appeals Commission continued under the


Forest and Range Practices Act


;


"Crown land"
means land, whether or not it is covered by water, or an interest in
land, vested in the government;



"Crown range"

means Crown land in a range district, but does not include Crown land
leased under the

Land Act

;


"former Act"
means the

Range Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 396;


"livestock"
means animals of the genus bos, horses, mules, asses, sheep, goats,
llamas and alpacas and any prescribed animals, but does not include
wildlife under the

Wildlife Act

, exotic game animals, bison, swine or poultry;



"natural resource officer"

has the same meaning as in the

Natural Resource Compliance Act

;



"private land"

means land that is not Crown land;



"range development"

means a range development as defined in the

Forest and Range Practices Act

;



"range district"

means a range district established under section 78;



"range stewardship plan"

means a range stewardship plan under the

Forest and Range Practices Act

;



"range use plan"

means a range use plan under the

Forest and Range Practices Act

.




(2)

Subject to a regulation made under section 79 (2) (a.1), the minister,
in writing, may




(a)

delegate a power or duty of the minister under this Act, including a
quasi-judicial power or duty, to




(i)

a person employed in the ministry, or




(ii)

a class of persons employed in the ministry,




(iii)

[Repealed 2007-18-94.]


and this Act and a regulation apply to the delegate as if the delegate
were the minister,




(b)

provide directions that are binding on the delegate respecting the
exercise of the power or the performance of the duty, and




(c)

vary or revoke a delegation or direction.




(3)

Except in prescribed circumstances, a delegate under subsection (2)
may subdelegate the power or duty to




(a)

a person employed in the ministry, or




(b)

a class of persons employed in the ministry.




(c)

[Repealed 2007-18-94.]




Part 1 — Disposition of Rights over Crown Range by the Government



Division 1 — Rights over Crown Range





Recognition of rights to Crown forage under other Acts




2


Other than rights to Crown range under the

Forest and Range Practices Act

and

Land Act

, rights to use or improve Crown range for grazing or cutting hay must
not be granted by or on behalf of the government, except in accordance
with this Act and the regulations.






Minister to grant licences and permits




3


The minister, on behalf of the government, may enter into agreements
granting rights over Crown range in the form of grazing licences,
grazing permits, hay cutting licences and hay cutting permits.




Division 2 — Content of Licences and Permits





Grazing licence content




4


A grazing licence




(a)

must




(i)

describe the Crown range over which it is to apply,




(ii)

be for a term of not less than 15 years and not more than 25 years,
and




(iii)

specify a number of animal unit months for which the holder is
eligible each year, subject to variations authorized or required under
another provision of this Act or of the

Forest and Range Practices Act

,




(a.1)

that is entered into with a first nation or its representative to
implement or further an agreement between the first nation and the
government respecting treaty-related measures, interim measures or
economic measures, must state that it is a condition of the licence
that the first nation comply with the agreement, and




(b)

may include other terms and conditions consistent with this Act, the

Forest and Range Practices Act

and the regulations under them.






Grazing permit content




5


A grazing permit




(a)

must




(i)

describe the Crown range over which it is to apply,




(ii)

be for a term of not more than 10 years, and




(iii)

specify a number of animal unit months for which the holder is
eligible each year, subject to variations authorized or required under
another provision of this Act or of the

Forest and Range Practices Act

,




(b)

that is entered into with a first nation or its representative to
implement or further an agreement between the first nation and the
government respecting treaty-related measures, interim measures or
economic measures, must state that it is a condition of the permit
that the first nation comply with the agreement, and




(c)

may include other terms and conditions consistent with this Act, the

Forest and Range Practices Act

and the regulations under them.






Hay cutting licence content




6


A hay cutting licence




(a)

must




(i)

describe the Crown range over which it is to apply,




(ii)

be for a term of not less than 15 years and not more than 25 years,
and




(iii)

grant to the holder the right to harvest a specified quantity of hay
from the Crown range described in it,




(iv)

[Repealed 2014-7-12.]




(a.1)

that is entered into with a first nation or its representative to
implement or further an agreement between the first nation and the
government respecting treaty-related measures, interim measures or
economic measures, must state that it is a condition of the licence
that the first nation comply with the agreement, and




(b)

may include other terms and conditions consistent with this Act, the

Forest and Range Practices Act

and the regulations under them.






Hay cutting permit content




7


A hay cutting permit




(a)

must




(i)

describe the Crown range over which it is to apply,




(ii)

be for a term of not more than 10 years, and




(iii)

grant to the holder the exclusive right to harvest a specified
quantity of hay from the Crown range described in it,




(iv)

[Repealed 2014-7-13.]




(b)

that is entered into with a first nation or its representative to
implement or further an agreement between the first nation and the
government respecting treaty-related measures, interim measures or
economic measures, must state that it is a condition of the permit
that the first nation comply with the agreement, and




(c)

may include other terms and conditions consistent with this Act, the

Forest and Range Practices Act

and the regulations under them.






Use by government employees and agents




8

(1)


The minister may issue authorizations to




(a)

persons employed in the ministry, acting in the course of their
duties, and




(b)

agents of the government acting in accordance with the terms of the
agency


authorizing them to use Crown range to improve the condition of the
Crown range for grazing, cutting hay or range conservation or
management.




(2)

An authorization issued under subsection (1)




(a)

is an agreement under this Act for the purposes of




(i)

the definition of "range practice" in the

Forest and Range Practices Act

, and




(ii)

section 50 of the

Forest and Range Practices Act

,




(b)

is an authorization of the minister for the purposes of section 51 of
the

Forest and Range Practices Act

, and




(c)

must include terms and conditions that the minister considers
appropriate and that are consistent with this Act and the regulations
and with the

Forest and Range Practices Act

and the regulations and standards under that Act.




Division 3 — Competition for Licences and Permits





Applications




9

(1)


Applications for licences and permits must be made to the minister in
the prescribed manner and form.




(2)

Subject to subsection (3), the minister may invite applications for




(a)

a licence, or




(b)

a permit

for



(c)

forage, or




(d)

hay


that is not subject to an existing licence or permit.




(3)

The minister must not enter into




(a)

a licence, or




(b)

a permit


referred to in subsection (2) without first giving in the prescribed
manner public notice of the invitation for applications.






Selection criteria for licence or permit




10

(1)


Before inviting applications under section 9 for a grazing licence or
grazing permit, the minister must decide which of the following are to
be used as eligibility or evaluation criteria for selecting a
successful applicant:




(a)

the submission of a plan that conforms to the requirements under the

Forest and Range Practices Act

for a range use plan or range stewardship plan;




(b)

in the case of a grazing licence, the capability of private land owned
or held under lease by an applicant to sustain the applicant's
livestock during that part of each year when the livestock will not be
on Crown range;




(c)

the capability, through facilities on private land owned or held under
lease by an applicant, of feeding, medically treating, branding,
tagging, loading and unloading the applicant's livestock;




(d)

the proximity of the facilities referred to in paragraph (c) to the
Crown range that will be described in the licence or permit;




(e)

rights over all or part of the Crown range that are the subject of the
invitation and that are shared by an applicant with one or more other
persons;




(f)

private land owned or held under lease that is




(i)

adjacent to the Crown range described in the application, and




(ii)

committed by the applicant for use in conjunction with the Crown range
in a manner that benefits the management of the Crown range;




(g)

commitment by an applicant to surrender grazing or hay cutting rights
over Crown range in order to benefit the management of Crown range;




(g.1)

commitment by an applicant to a course of action




(i)

designed to improve or enhance the Crown range described in the
application, including but not limited to carrying out a specified
range practice as defined in the

Forest and Range Practices Act

, or a specified range development, and




(ii)

that the applicant undertakes to carry out in conjunction with the
licence or permit, as a condition of the licence or permit;




(h)

contraventions of this Act, the former Act, the

Forest and Range Practices Act

, the

Forest Practices Code of British Columbia Act

, the

Livestock Act

or the regulations under them by an applicant in the immediately
preceding 5 years;




(i)

the number of livestock owned or leased by the applicant;




(j)

other eligibility or evaluation criteria the minister considers
relevant to an invitation for applications under section 9 for grazing
licences or grazing permits.




(2)

[Repealed 2014-7-15.]




(3)

Before inviting applications under section 9 for a hay cutting licence
or hay cutting permit, the minister must decide which of the following
are to be used as eligibility or evaluation criteria for selecting a
successful applicant:




(a)

the criteria set out in subsection (1) (a), (g), (g.1) and (h) of this
section;




(b)

other eligibility or evaluation criteria the minister considers
relevant to an invitation for applications under section 9 for hay
cutting licences or hay cutting permits.






Proposal to all applicants, if more than one




11

(0.1)


In exercising his or her powers or duties under this section and
section 15 in respect of applications for a licence or permit made
under section 9, the minister must use the eligibility or evaluation
criteria in respect of the licence or permit as determined by the
minister under section 10 (1) or (3), as applicable.




(1)

If only one application for a licence or permit is made under section
9, the minister may enter into the licence or permit with the
applicant.




(2)

If more than one application is made under section 9, the minister
must deliver in writing to all applicants a proposal respecting the
disposition of all applications.




(2.1)

On receipt of one or more applications for a licence or permit under
section 9, the minister may decline to enter into the licence or
permit with any or all of the applicants.




(3)

[Repealed 2014-7-16.]






Repealed




12


[Repealed 2014-7-17.]






Changes to a proposal




13

(1)


The minister may change a proposal made under section 11 (2) if the
minister determines that part of the proposal resulted from an error
in




(a)

numerical calculation, or




(b)

interpretation of material included in an application submitted in
response to an invitation for applications under section 9.




(2)

A change may be made under subsection (1) of this section before or
after receipt of an objection referred to in section 15.






No objection to proposal




14


Unless the minister receives notice in writing in accordance with
section 15 (1) from one or more of the applicants objecting to a
proposal made under section 11, the minister may enter into the
licences, permits or both that are identified in the proposal.






Objection to proposal




15

(1)


An applicant may, within 14 days after a proposal under section 11 (2)
is received by the applicant, deliver notice in writing to the
minister objecting to the proposal and setting out in the notice the
reasons for the objection.




(2)

If, in the opinion of the minister, an objection referred to in
subsection (1) does not raise issues relevant to the proposal that
warrant its reconsideration, the minister may enter into the licences,
permits or both that are identified in the proposal.




(3)

If, in the opinion of the minister, an objection referred to in
subsection (1) raises issues relevant to the proposal that warrant its
reconsideration, after giving all the applicants an opportunity to be
heard, the minister may enter into the licences or permits referred to
in the invitation under section 9 with those of the applicants the
minister selects.




(4)

Notice of a decision of the minister under subsection (2) or (3) must
be delivered to all the applicants.




Division 4 — Direct Awards of Licences and Permits





Direct award — public notice not required




16

(1)


Despite section 9, the minister, without inviting or accepting
applications from other persons, may enter with a person into a
grazing or hay cutting licence in any of the following circumstances:




(a)

the number of animal unit months specified in the grazing licence is
100 or less;




(b)

the quantity of hay specified in the hay cutting licence is 10 tonnes
or less;




(c)

the grazing or hay cutting licence




(i)

is entered into with the holder of a permit, lease or licence to
occupy Crown land granted under the

Land Act

,




(ii)

was publicized in conjunction with the

Land Act

permit, lease or licence, and




(iii)

is needed to carry out the operations authorized under or related to
the

Land Act

permit, lease or licence;




(d)

the grazing licence is entered into with a person who, within the 2
weeks before the person applies for the grazing licence under this
section, surrendered a grazing lease granted to that person under the

Land Act

;




(e)

the grazing licence is entered into with a person who holds or held a
grazing permit issued under this Act as a replacement permit for a
grazing permit issued under the former Act, if the person applies for
the grazing licence under this section during the term of the
replacement grazing permit or within 2 months after its expiry.




(1.1)

A grazing licence referred to in subsection (1) (d) or (e) must




(a)

describe the same area as the grazing lease or permit referred to in
that subsection, and




(b)

specify a number of animal unit months for which the holder is
eligible each year, which number must not be more than the number
specified in the grazing lease or permit referred to in that
subsection, if any.




(2)

Despite section 9 but subject to subsection (3) of this section, the
minister, without inviting or accepting applications from other
persons, may enter with a person into




(a)

a grazing permit authorizing its holder to use forage, or




(b)

a hay cutting permit authorizing its holder to use hay


covered by another holder's licence or permit if that other holder has
entered into a non-use agreement under section 46.




(3)

A grazing permit or hay cutting permit entered into under subsection
(2)




(a)

must be for a term of not more than 10 years or the period of non-use
specified in the non-use agreement, whichever is less, and




(b)

must not authorize its holder to use forage or hay in a quantity in
excess of the unused amount under the non-use agreement.




(4)

Despite section 9, the minister, without inviting or accepting
applications from other persons, may enter with a person into a
grazing permit if the number of animal unit months specified in the
grazing permit is 200 or less.






Direct award to or in respect of a first nation




17

(1)


In this section,
"representative"
means a person or other legal entity that




(a)

is appointed by a first nation as its representative, and




(b)

meets prescribed requirements.




(2)

The minister may enter into




(a)

a grazing or hay cutting permit or licence with a first nation or its
representative to implement or further an agreement between the first
nation and the government respecting treaty-related measures, interim
measures or economic measures, or




(b)

a grazing or hay cutting permit with a person to mitigate the effects
on that person of




(i)

a treaty, or




(ii)

an agreement between a first nation and the government respecting
treaty-related measures, interim measures or economic measures.






Direct award — public notice required




18

(1)


In this section:



"ancillary licence or permit"

means a grazing or hay cutting licence or permit for use in
conjunction with a

Land Act

permit, lease or licence;



"compensatory grazing licence or permit"

means a grazing licence or permit that specifies a number of animal
unit months in full or partial substitution for animal unit months
lost to the holder of a grazing licence or permit because of
circumstances beyond the holder's control;



"compensatory hay cutting licence or permit"

means a hay cutting licence or permit that specifies a quantity of hay
in full or partial substitution for hay lost to the holder of a hay
cutting licence or permit because of circumstances beyond the holder's
control;



"exchange grazing licence or permit"

means a grazing licence or permit that describes Crown range exchanged
for all or part of the Crown range described in a grazing licence or
permit;



"exchange hay cutting licence or permit"

means a hay cutting licence or permit that describes Crown range
exchanged for all or part of the Crown range described in a hay
cutting licence or permit.




(2)

Despite section 9, but subject to subsection (3) of this section, the
minister, without inviting or accepting applications from other
persons, may enter with a person into




(a)

an ancillary licence or permit, if it is needed by the person in
conjunction with a

Land Act

permit, lease or licence held by the person,




(b)

a compensatory grazing licence or permit that specifies a number of
animal unit months in full or partial substitution for the number of
animal unit months lost to the person because of circumstances beyond
the person's control,




(c)

a compensatory hay cutting licence or permit that specifies a quantity
of hay in full or partial substitution for the quantity of hay lost to
the person because of circumstances beyond the person's control,




(d)

an exchange grazing licence or permit that specifies a number of
animal unit months equal to or less than the number of animal unit
months that the minister considers is attributable to the Crown range
being exchanged,




(e)

an exchange hay cutting licence or permit that specifies a quantity of
hay equal to or less than the quantity of hay that the minister
considers is attributable to the Crown range being exchanged, or




(f)

in prescribed circumstances or for prescribed purposes or both, a
grazing licence or grazing permit or a hay cutting licence or hay
cutting permit.




(3)

The minister must not enter under this section into a grazing licence
or grazing permit or a hay cutting licence or hay cutting permit
without first giving public notice in the prescribed manner.




Division 5 — Requirements for Entering into Licences and Permits





Conditions of entering into licences and permits




19

(1)


On or before entering with a person into a licence or permit, the
minister by order may impose conditions he or she considers
appropriate with which a person must comply




(a)

before entering into the licence or permit, or




(b)

by a date specified in the order.




(2)

If the person referred to in subsection (1) does not comply with a
condition imposed under that subsection the minister, without a
hearing,




(a)

by notice delivered to the person who is subject to the condition,




(i)

may refuse to enter into the licence or permit, or




(ii)

may cancel the licence or permit if the person who is subject to the
condition has entered into the licence or permit, and




(b)

may make a proposal under section 11 (2) to the other persons who
applied for that licence or permit, if the licence or permit was or is
to be entered into under section 14 or 15.




(3)

Sections 55 to 66 do not apply to a cancellation under subsection (2)
of this section.






Compliance with
Livestock Act




20


Before entering into a grazing licence or grazing permit, the minister
may require the applicant to satisfy the minister that the applicant
is able to comply with those provisions of the

Livestock Act

that apply to the applicant's livestock.






Private land agreements




21


The minister may make entering with an applicant into a grazing
licence or grazing permit conditional on the applicant first entering
into an agreement with




(a)

the minister on behalf of the government,




(b)

other applicants for grazing licences or grazing permits,




(c)

the holders of other grazing licences or grazing permits,




(d)

persons who own land or hold land under lease, or




(e)

any combination of applicants, holders and persons referred to in
paragraphs (a) to (d),


allowing, for the duration of the licence or permit, land owned or
held under lease by the applicant to be used by the applicant and
others for grazing purposes, in conjunction with the Crown range
described in the licence or permit.






Conditions relating to associated private land or associated tenures




21.1

(1)


The minister may make entering with a person into a licence or permit
conditional on the person, for the duration of the term of the licence
or permit,




(a)

retaining the ownership of or a leasehold interest in specified
private land, or




(b)

holding any of the following as specified in the licence or permit:




(i)

a permit, lease or licence under the

Land Act

to occupy Crown land for a purpose specified by regulation;




(ii)

a guiding territory certificate or transporter licence under the

Wildlife Act

;




(iii)

an interest, right or privilege in relation to the use of Crown land
or resources that is granted under an enactment and specified by
regulation.




(2)

The minister must ensure that a condition referred to in subsection
(1) is specified in the licence or permit.




Part 2 — Requirements Respecting Licences and Permits



Division 1 — Replacement of Licences





Repealed




22


[Repealed 2014-7-28.]






Replacement licence




23

(1)


During the 12 month period beginning 2 years before the expiry of the
term of a licence, the minister must offer in writing to the holder of
the licence a replacement for it.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), if the minister determines that




(a)

rights under the licence being considered for replacement are under
suspension, or




(b)

the holder of the licence




(i)

has not paid all money the holder owes to the government under this
Act or the

Forest and Range Practices Act

, or




(ii)

has not provided security or a deposit required under this Act or the

Forest and Range Practices Act

,


the minister may decline to offer a replacement for the licence until




(c)

the suspension is rescinded,




(d)

the suspended rights are reinstated, or




(e)

the holder pays the money owing to the government or provides the
required security or deposit.




(3)

An offer made under this section may be amended.






Replacement licence content




24


A licence offered under section 23 must




(a)

have a term beginning on the day after the expiry of the term of the
licence being replaced under the offer,




(b)

describe the same area as the licence being replaced under the offer,




(c)

in the case of a grazing licence, specify a number of animal unit
months for which the holder is eligible each year that is the same as
specified in the licence being replaced under the offer, and




(d)

in the case of a hay cutting licence, grant to the holder the right to
harvest a specified quantity of hay that is the same as specified in
the licence being replaced under the offer.






Repealed




25-27


[Repealed 2014-7-31.]




Division 2 — Consolidation and Subdivision of Grazing Licences and
Permits





Consolidation and subdivision




28

(1)


With the consent of or on receipt of a written request from the holder
of the relevant licences or permits, the minister may do one or more
of the following:




(a)

consolidate 2 or more grazing licences held by the same person into a
single grazing licence entered into with that person;




(b)

consolidate 2 or more grazing permits held by the same person into a
single grazing permit entered into with that person;




(c)

subdivide a grazing licence held by a person into 2 or more grazing
licences entered into with the person;




(d)

subdivide a grazing permit held by a person into 2 or more grazing
permits entered into with the person;




(e)

delete all or part of the Crown range described in a grazing licence
held by a person and include the Crown range or the part of it, as the
case may be, in another grazing licence entered into with the person;




(f)

delete all or part of the Crown range described in a grazing permit
held by a person and include the Crown range or the part of it, as the
case may be, in another grazing permit entered into with the person;




(g)

cancel a licence or permit held by a person if all or part of its
Crown range has been included in another licence or permit entered
into with the person;




(h)

enter into one or more grazing licences with a person describing the
same Crown range as described in one or more licences held by the
person that were the subject of consolidation, subdivision or deletion
under this section;




(i)

enter into one or more grazing permits with a person describing the
same Crown range as described in one or more permits held by the
person that were the subject of consolidation, subdivision or deletion
under this section.




(2)

Instead of, under section 11 (1), 14, 15 (2) or (3), 16 or 18 (2),
entering with an applicant into a licence or permit, the minister,
with the applicant's consent, may amend




(a)

a licence held by the applicant by including in it the new subject
matter, or




(b)

a permit held by the applicant by including in it the new subject
matter.




Division 3 — Associated Private Land or Tenures Pertaining to Licences
and Permits





Retention of associated private land or tenures of holder of licence
or permit




29

(1)


In this section and section 30:



"associated private land"

, in relation to a licence or permit referred to in subsection (1.1)
of this section, means the private land referred to in
paragraph (a) of that subsection;




"associated tenure"

, in relation to a licence or permit referred to in
subsection (1.1) of this section, means the permit, lease,
licence, certificate, interest, right or privilege referred to in
paragraph (b) of that subsection, as applicable.




(1.1)

This section and section 30 apply to a licence or permit if the
licence or permit contains a requirement or condition to the effect
that, during the term of the licence or permit, the holder of the
licence or permit is to




(a)

retain the ownership of or a leasehold interest in specified private
land, or




(b)

hold any of the following as specified in the licence or permit:




(i)

a permit, lease or licence under the

Land Act

to occupy Crown land for a purpose specified by regulation;




(ii)

a guiding territory certificate or transporter licence under the

Wildlife Act

;




(iii)

an interest, right or privilege in relation to the use of Crown land
or resources that is granted under an enactment and specified by
regulation.




(2)

During the term of a licence or permit the holder of the licence or
permit must continue, as applicable,




(a)

to own or hold under lease the associated private land for that
licence or permit, or




(b)

to hold the associated tenure for that licence or permit.




(3)

The minister may cancel a licence or permit without first delivering
to the holder of the licence or permit a notice of cancellation if the
holder contravenes subsection (2).




(4)

If the minister determines that there are grounds under subsection (3)
to cancel a licence or permit, but decides not to cancel the licence
or permit,




(a)

the minister must inform the holder of the licence or permit of the
decision,




(b)

the minister, in making the decision not to cancel, may prepare
amendments to the licence or permit to attach conditions to it that
the minister considers appropriate in the circumstances, and




(c)

the minister must deliver notice to the holder of the licence or
permit, setting out the amendments prepared under paragraph (b), if
any.




(4.1)

On delivery of notice to the holder of a licence or permit in
accordance with subsection (4) (c), the licence or permit, as the case
may be, is deemed to be amended as set out in the notice.




(5)

Sections 55 to 66 do not apply to a cancellation of a licence or
permit under subsection (3) of this section.






Substitutions




30

(1)


A holder of a licence or permit may apply to the minister to amend the
licence or permit by substituting other land for the holder's
associated private land.




(2)

On receiving an application under subsection (1), the minister may
amend the licence or permit by substituting other land for the
holder's associated private land.




(3) and (4)

[Repealed 2014-7-36.]






Repealed




31-33


[Repealed 2014-7-37.]




Division 4 — Other Uses, Changes, Deletions and Compensation





Other uses of Crown range




34


A licence or permit under this Act does not prevent the government
from




(a)

using the Crown range, or




(b)

granting to others the use of the Crown range


described in the licence or permit if the use is for a purpose that
the minister considers is compatible with the grazing or hay cutting
rights of the holder under the licence or permit.






Change in boundary or area




35


In accordance with the regulations and with the consent of the holder
of a licence or permit, the minister may vary the boundary or area of
the licence or permit.






Licence or permit deletions and reductions, generally




36

(1)


The minister by order may




(a)

delete land from the Crown range described in a licence or permit,




(b)

reduce as necessary because of the deletion the number of animal unit
months or quantity of hay specified in the licence or permit, or




(c)

do both


if the minister considers that the deletion, reduction or both will
lead to more efficient resource use.




(2)

The minister by order may reduce the number of animal unit months or
quantity of hay specified in a licence or permit if he or she
considers the reduction necessary because the Crown range described in
the licence or permit no longer supports the number of animal unit
months or quantity of hay.






Licence or permit deletions and reductions because of incompatible
land use




37


The minister by order may




(a)

delete land from the Crown range described in a licence or permit, and




(b)

reduce as necessary because of the deletion the number of animal unit
months or quantity of hay specified in the licence or permit


if the minister considers that the land deleted is required for a use
incompatible with grazing or hay cutting.






Implementing deletions and reductions




38

(1)


A deletion or reduction or a combination of them, as the case may be,
under section 36 or 37 is not effective until the minister has
prepared the necessary amendments to the licence or permit and,




(a)

if there is no reduction in the number of animal unit months or in the
quantity of hay, the minister delivers to the holder at least 60 days'
notice, setting out the amendments, or




(b)

if there is a reduction in the number of animal unit months or in the
quantity of hay, the minister delivers to the holder at least one
year's notice, setting out the amendments.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), if a holder of a licence or permit consents to
waiving the notice period under subsection (1) (a) or (b), the
deletion or reduction, or the combination of them, as the case may be,
is effective as soon as




(a)

the minister has prepared the necessary amendments to the licence or
permit, and




(b)

notice of the amendments is delivered to the holder, in accordance
with this section.




(3)

On expiry of a notice delivered to the holder of a licence or permit
under subsection (1) or on delivery of a notice under subsection (2),
the licence or permit, as the case may be, is deemed to be amended as
set out in the notice.






Compensation for reductions




39

(1)


If during the term of a licence or permit




(a)

a reduction, or




(b)

a series of reductions, if more than one,


under section 36 (1) or 37 in the number of animal unit months or
quantity of hay specified in the licence or permit at the time of the
reduction has the effect of reducing by more than 5% the




(c)

number of animal unit months, or




(d)

quantity of hay


specified in the licence or permit at the beginning of its term, the
holder of the licence or permit is entitled to compensation from the
government in an amount determined in accordance with subsection (2)
of this section.




(2)

The compensation to which the holder of a licence or permit is
entitled under subsection (1) is an amount equal to the value, for the
unexpired portion of the term of the licence or permit or for a
different period if a different period is prescribed, of the




(a)

number of animal unit months, or




(b)

quantity of hay


taken by means of the part of the reduction that exceeds 5% of the




(c)

number of animal unit months, or




(d)

quantity of hay


specified in the licence or permit at the beginning of its term.






Compensation for range developments




40


The holder of a licence or permit affected by a deletion of land under
section 36 (1) or 37 or in prescribed circumstances by a reduction
under section 36 (2) is entitled to compensation from the government
in an amount equal to the sum of




(a)

any labour and material costs reasonably incurred by the holder for
range developments,




(i)

on the Crown range remaining under the licence or permit after the
deletion, and




(ii)

made necessary by




(A)

a deletion of land under section 36 (1) or 37, or




(B)

a reduction under section 36 (2) if the circumstances in which
compensation is payable for such a reduction have been prescribed, and




(b)

the value of range developments made to the land deleted that




(i)

are authorized under an enactment,




(ii)

are not developments to which section 174 of the

Forest Practices Code of British Columbia Act

applied, before the repeal of that section, or to which section 120 of
the

Forest and Range Practices Act

applies, and




(iii)

are not or have not been paid for by




(A)

the government under this Act or another enactment, or




(B)

a person other than the holder or a former holder of the licence or
permit.






Arbitration Act
applies to disputes as to amount of compensation




41


If the government and the holder of a licence or permit do not agree
on the amount of compensation payable under section 39 or 40 to the
holder the amount must be submitted for determination by arbitration
under the

Arbitration Act

.






Compensation may take form of licence or permit




42

(1)


Compensation payable under section 39 to the holder of a licence or
permit may take the form, in whole or in part, of another licence or
permit.




(2)

The minister may enter with the holder into the other licence or
permit without first giving public notice or inviting applications
from other persons.






Set-off for benefits previously received




43


The amount of compensation to which the holder of a licence or permit
is entitled under sections 39 and 40 must be reduced by any financial
or other benefit received by that holder from the government because
of or arising out of the deletion or reduction that gives rise to the
entitlement.






When compensation not payable




44

(1)


In this section,
"compensation"
includes damages.




(2)

No compensation is payable by the government and an action or other
proceeding must not be brought or continued against the government for
compensation in respect of any of the following:




(a) and (b)

[Repealed 2014-7-44.]




(c)

subject to section 40, a deletion of land under section 36 (1) or 37
from the Crown range described in a licence or permit if there is no
reduction, because of the deletion, in animal unit months or quantity
of hay;




(d)

subject to section 40, a reduction under section 36 (2) in the




(i)

number of animal unit months, or




(ii)

quantity of hay

specified in a licence or permit;



(e)

a reduction under section 47 or 48 in the number of animal unit months
specified in a licence or permit;




(f)

an order under section 49.






Limit on compensation




45

(1)


In this section:


"agreement"
means a grazing licence, grazing permit, hay cutting licence or hay
cutting permit;



"compensation"

includes damages.




(2)

The compensation payable to the holder of an agreement because of or
arising out of




(a)

a deletion of land under section 36 (1) or 37 affecting the agreement,




(b)

a reduction under section 36 (1) or 37 affecting the agreement in the
number of animal unit months or quantity of hay, or




(c)

a deletion referred to in paragraph (a) of this subsection in
combination with a reduction referred to in paragraph (b) of this
subsection


is limited to the amount of compensation determined in relation to
that agreement under sections 39 and 40.




(3)

An action or other proceeding must not be brought or continued against
the government for compensation in an amount that exceeds the amount
limited under this section.




(4)

The

Expropriation Act

does not apply in respect of a taking, deletion or reduction, under
this Act, of any right or interest held by a person under this Act.




Division 5 — Efficient Use of Licences and Permits





90% animal unit months use requirement unless otherwise agreed




46

(1)


Unless otherwise agreed by a non-use agreement made in writing between
the minister on behalf of the government and the holder of a grazing
licence or grazing permit, the holder must ensure that at least 90% of
the animal unit months specified in the licence or permit is used in
each calendar year.




(2)

A non-use agreement referred to in subsection (1)




(a)

must conform to prescribed criteria and include prescribed content,
and




(b)

may include terms and conditions that are consistent with this Act,
the

Forest and Range Practices Act

and the regulations under them.






Reduction for underused animal unit months




47

(1)


If, in the absence of a non-use agreement referred to in section 46,
the holder of a grazing licence or grazing permit does not ensure the
use in a calendar year of at least 90% of the animal unit months
specified in the licence or permit, the minister




(a)

may prepare amendments to the licence or permit to reduce the number
of animal unit months specified in it by an amount that does not
exceed the amount of the unused animal unit months for that calendar
year, and




(b)

must deliver notice to the holder setting out the amendments prepared
under paragraph (a) of this subsection.




(2)

On delivery to the holder of a licence or permit of notice in
accordance with subsection (1), the licence or permit, as the case may
be, is deemed to be amended as set out in the notice.






Reduction for non-compliance with a non-use agreement




48

(1)


If the holder of a grazing licence or grazing permit, who under
section 46 has a non-use agreement, does not ensure the use in a
calendar year, of the number of animal unit months specified in the
licence or permit after taking into account the non-use agreement, the
minister




(a)

may prepare amendments to the licence or permit to reduce the number
of animal unit months specified in it by an amount that does not
exceed the amount of the unused animal unit months for that calendar
year, and




(b)

must deliver notice to the holder, setting out the amendments prepared
under paragraph (a) of this subsection.




(2)

On delivery to the holder of a licence or permit of notice in
accordance with subsection (1), the licence or permit, as the case may
be, is deemed to be amended as set out in the notice.






Directed non-use of Crown range




49

(1)


The minister may order the holder of a licence or permit, for a period
specified by the minister, to refrain to the extent specified in the
order from using all or a specified part of the Crown range described
in the licence or permit.




(2)

A holder who is the subject of an order under subsection (1) must
comply with the order.






Exemption orders in exceptional circumstances




50

(1)


If satisfied that the holder of a licence or permit is unable to use
or ensure the use of the percentage or number of animal unit months
referred to in section 46 (1), 47 (1) or 48 (1) because of




(a)

circumstances beyond the holder's control, or




(b)

an order under section 49,


the minister by order may exempt the holder from the obligation,




(c)

with or without conditions, and




(d)

to an extent and for a period specified in the order.




(2)

An order under subsection (1) may be made on the minister's own
initiative or on application by the holder of a licence or permit.




(3)

Before making or refusing to make an order under subsection (1) that
is the subject of an application by the holder of a licence or permit,
the minister must give the applicant an opportunity to be heard.




(4)

The minister must deliver notice to the applicant of a decision
refusing to make an order under subsection (1), accompanied by the
reasons for the decision.




(5)

A holder who is the subject of an order under subsection (1) must
comply with the order.






Reporting requirements for grazing




51

(1)


By December 31 in each year, the holder of a grazing licence or
grazing permit must report to the minister the number of animal unit
months the holder has used under the licence or permit in that year if
the use is less than 90% of the animal unit months.




(2)

If the minister considers it appropriate in a particular case for the
efficient use of Crown range he or she may require the holder of a
grazing licence or grazing permit to provide the report described in
subsection (1) even if the use of animal unit months is 90% or more.




(3)

The holder of a grazing licence or grazing permit who is required
under subsection (2) to provide a report described in subsection (1)
must provide the report.




Division 6 — Allowance for Additional Resource Use under Licences and
Permits





Temporary increase of animal unit months or quantity of hay




52


On application by the holder of a licence or permit and without
inviting or accepting applications from other persons, the minister
may increase for a specified year




(a)

the number of animal unit months specified in the licence or permit,
or




(b)

the specified quantity of hay to be harvested under the licence or
permit


if the minister considers that




(c)

the increase can be used without adversely affecting the management
and conservation of the Crown range described in the licence or
permit, and




(d)

a competitive process in relation to the increase in the number of
animal unit months or in the quantity of hay to be harvested is not
practicable in the circumstances.






Earned increase in animal unit months or quantity of hay




53

(1)


The holder of a licence or permit may submit a plan in writing to the
minister for the management by the holder of the Crown range described
in the licence or permit in a manner intended to increase the animal
unit months or quantity of hay available on that Crown range.




(2)

The minister may approve a plan submitted under subsection (1) if the
plan conforms to prescribed criteria, if any.




(3)

After receiving approval under subsection (2), the holder of the
licence or permit to which the plan pertains




(a)

may implement the plan, and




(b)

if the plan results in an increase in the animal unit months or
quantity of hay available on the Crown range described in the licence
or permit, request an amendment to the licence or permit to reflect
the increase.




(4)

If satisfied that an increase requested under subsection (3) is
sustainable, the minister




(a)

may amend the licence or permit to reflect the increase for the
balance of the term of the licence or permit, and




(b)

if the amendment is made under paragraph (a) of this subsection, must
attach a condition to the licence or permit requiring continued use of
the plan.




Division 7 — Cancellation of Licences and Permits





Cancellation as a result of reductions




53.1

(1)


If, during the term of a licence or permit,




(a)

a reduction, or




(b)

a series of reductions, if more than one,


under section 36 (1) or (2), 37, 47 (1) or 48 (1) in the number of
animal unit months or quantity of hay specified in the licence or
permit has the effect of reducing the number of animal unit months or
quantity of hay to zero, the minister, without a hearing, by order may
cancel the licence or permit.




(2)

The minister must deliver to the holder of the licence or permit
notice of a cancellation under subsection (1), specifying the reasons
for the cancellation and the day on which the cancellation takes
effect.




(3)

Sections 64 to 66 do not apply to a cancellation of a licence or
permit under subsection (1) of this section.




Part 3 — Compliance and Enforcement



Division 1 — Inspection, Stopping and Seizing





Application of certain
Forest and Range Practices Act
provisions




54


Divisions 1 and 2 of Part 6 of the

Forest and Range Practices Act

apply to this Act and the regulations under this Act, unless the
context indicates otherwise.




Division 2 — Suspension and Termination of Licences and Permits





Suspension of rights under licences and permits




55


Subject to section 60 and in addition to any penalty, charge or order
under this Act or the

Forest and Range Practices Act

, the minister by order may suspend all or part of the rights under a
licence or permit, if the holder of the licence or permit




(a)

makes a material misrepresentation, omission or misstatement of fact
in




(i)

the application for the licence or permit or in information furnished
with it, or




(ii)

an operational plan, as defined in the

Forest and Range Practices Act

,




(b)

does not perform an obligation to be performed by the holder under the
licence or permit, other than an obligation under a condition
described in section 4 (a.1), 5 (b), 6 (a.1) or 7 (b) of this Act, or




(c)

does not comply with this Act, the

Forest and Range Practices Act

, the

Livestock Act

or the regulations under them.






Suspension by minister




56


In addition to any penalty, charge or order under this Act or the

Forest and Range Practices Act

, the minister may suspend by order all or part of the rights under a
licence or permit if its holder does not comply with a condition
described in section 4 (a.1), 5 (b), 6 (a.1) or 7 (b) of this Act.






Notice of suspension




57

(1)


Before rights are suspended by order under section 55, the minister
must deliver notice to the holder of the licence or permit




(a)

specifying the material misrepresentation, omission, misstatement,
non-performance or non-compliance, and




(b)

allowing the holder at least 5 days after the date of delivery of the
notice to remedy the material misrepresentation, omission,
misstatement, non-performance or non-compliance.




(2)

Before rights are suspended under section 56, the minister must
deliver notice to the holder of the licence or permit




(a)

stating the particulars of the holder's non-compliance with the
agreement referred to in section 4 (a.1), 5 (b), 6 (a.1) or 7 (b), and




(b)

allowing the holder at least 5 days after the date of delivery of the
notice to remedy the non-compliance.






Opportunity to be heard




58

(1)


On the request of the holder made during the period allowed under
section 57 (1) (b) or (2) (b), the minister must give the
holder an opportunity to be heard.




(2)

After giving the holder an opportunity to be heard, the minister must
rescind the order if he or she is satisfied that there are no grounds
for suspending rights under the licence or permit.






When suspension takes effect




59


A suspension of rights under section 55 or 56 takes effect on the
expiry of the period allowed in the notice.






Suspension by minister or natural resource officer




60

(1)


By order, the minister or a natural resource officer authorized by the
minister may suspend all or some of the rights granted under a licence
or permit if he or she believes on reasonable and probable grounds
that




(a)

the holder of the licence or permit has not performed an obligation to
be performed by the holder under the licence or permit or has not
complied with this Act, the

Forest and Range Practices Act

, the

Livestock Act

or the regulations under them and that the non-performance or
non-compliance is causing or may imminently cause serious damage to
the environment, or




(b)

because of weather conditions or other natural events, use of the
Crown range described in the licence or permit would be detrimental to
the forest or forage productivity of the Crown range.




(2)

The minister or a natural resource officer authorized by the minister
may make an order under subsection (1) without advance notice, but
must deliver notice of the order to the holder of the licence or
permit, accompanied by the reasons for the order.




(3)

A suspension of rights under this section




(a)

takes effect on the date notice of the order is delivered to the
holder under subsection (2), and




(b)

continues in effect until the rights




(i)

are reinstated by the minister or a natural resource officer
authorized by the minister, or




(ii)

are cancelled under this Act.






Prohibition against exercising rights under suspension




61


The holder of a licence or permit must not exercise rights over Crown
range granted in the licence or permit if those rights are under
suspension.






Reinstatement




62

(1)


On application by the holder of a licence or permit suspended under
section 55 or 56, the minister by order must




(a)

reinstate rights under the licence or permit if satisfied that there
are no longer any grounds for the suspension, or




(b)

refuse to do so if not satisfied as set out in paragraph (a).




(2)

The minister must deliver notice of the order to the applicant.






Cancellation




63


If the rights over Crown range granted in a licence or permit are
under suspension other than under section 60 (1) (b), the minister by
order may




(a)

cancel those rights, or




(b)

cancel the licence or permit.






Notice of cancellation




64


At least 3 months before a cancellation order under section 63 is to
become effective, the minister must deliver to the holder of the
licence or permit a notice of cancellation, specifying the reasons for
the cancellation and the day on which the cancellation takes effect.






Hearing




65


On application in writing made by the holder of a licence or permit
within 30 days after a notice of cancellation has been delivered under
section 64, the minister must give the holder an opportunity to be
heard in relation to the cancellation.






Cancellation order may be rescinded




66


On reasonable grounds the minister by order may




(a)

rescind the order of cancellation and if necessary reinstate the
licence or permit or the rights, or




(b)

postpone the day on which the cancellation takes effect.






Notice published in the Gazette




67


After cancellation of a licence or permit or of rights under a licence
or permit a notice of the cancellation must be published in the
Gazette.






Continuing liability after expiry, surrender, suspension or
cancellation




68

(1)


In this section,
"holder"
includes a former holder.




(2)

Despite the expiry, surrender, suspension or cancellation of a licence
or permit, its holder is liable




(a)

to pay the rent, fees, costs and penalties owing to the government in
respect of the licence or permit,




(b)

to perform all other obligations of the holder under the licence or
permit, and




(c)

to perform all other obligations of the holder under this Act and the

Forest and Range Practices Act

,


incurred before the expiry, surrender, suspension or cancellation of
the licence or permit.




(3)

Subject to subsection (4), a holder to whom subsection (2) applies may
enter Crown land for the purposes of performing obligations referred
to in subsection (2) (b) and (c).




(4)

Subject to the regulations under subsection (6), if any, the minister
may impose requirements he or she considers necessary or desirable to
be met by a holder to whom subsection (2) applies as conditions of
entering onto the Crown land, including that the holder provide
security.




(5)

A holder to whom subsection (2) applies must comply with a requirement
imposed under subsection (4).




(6)

For the purposes of subsection (4), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations




(a)

limiting the circumstances under which the minister may exercise the
discretion under subsection (4),




(b)

specifying the form and amount of the security, and




(c)

specifying the circumstances under which the security may be realized.




Division 3 — Reviews and Appeals





Reviews




69

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), at the request of a person who is the
subject of, or whose licence or permit is affected by,




(a)

an order of a natural resource officer under section 60 (1),




(b)

an order of the minister under section 36 (1) or (2), 49 (1), 50 (1),
55, 60 (1), 62 (1) (b) or 63,




(c)

a decision of the minister referred to in section 50 (4), or




(d)

amendments under section 47 or 48,


the person who made the order or decision or who prepared the
amendments, or another person employed in the ministry and designated
in writing by the minister, must review the order, decision or
amendments, but only if satisfied that there is evidence that was not
available at the time of the original order, decision or amendments.




(2)

On a review referred to in subsection (1), only




(a)

evidence that was not available at the time of the original order,
decision or amendments, and




(b)

the record pertaining to the original order, decision or amendments

may be considered.



(3)

To obtain a review referred to in subsection (1), the person who is
the subject of, or whose licence or permit is affected by, the order,
decision or amendments must request the review not later than 21 days
after the date the notice of the order, decision or amendments was
delivered to the person.




(4)

The minister may extend the time limit in subsection (3) before or
after its expiry.




(5)

The person conducting a review referred to in subsection (1) has the
same discretion to




(a)

make an order referred to in subsection (1) (a) or (b),




(b)

make a decision referred to in subsection (1) (c), or




(c)

prepare amendments referred to in subsection (1) (d)


that the person who made the original order or decision or prepared
the original amendments had at the time of the original order,
decision or amendments.




(6)

After the preparation of amendments under subsection (5) (c) to a
licence or permit, and on delivery of the particulars of the
amendments to the holder of the licence or permit, the licence or
permit, as the case may be, is deemed to be amended to include the
amendments.






Appeals to the commission




70

(1)


The person who is the subject of, or whose licence or permit is
affected by,




(a)

an order,




(b)

a decision, or




(c)

amendments


referred to in section 69 (1) may appeal to the commission either of
the following, but not both:




(d)

the order, decision or amendments;




(e)

a decision made after completion of a review of the order, decision or
amendments.




(2)

[Repealed 2014-7-62.]




(3)

Part 8.1 of the


Forest and Range Practices Act


applies to an appeal under this Act.






Interveners and board standing in appeals




70.1

(1)


In addition to the provisions of the


Administrative Tribunals Act


incorporated under Part 8.1 of the


Forest and Range Practices Act


, section 33 of the


Administrative Tribunals Act


applies to an appeal under this Act.




(2)

The board has standing to be a party, if it so requests, to an appeal
under this Act.






Powers of the commission




71

(1)


On an appeal under section 70, the commission may




(a)

consider the findings of the person who made the order or decision or
who prepared the amendments, and




(b)

either




(i)

confirm, vary or rescind the order, decision or amendments, or




(ii)

with or without directions, refer the matter back to that person for
reconsideration.




(2)

If an appeal referred to in subsection (1) results in amendments to a
licence or permit, the licence or permit, as the case may be, is
deemed to be amended to include the amendments as soon as the
particulars of the amendments have been delivered to the holder of the
licence or permit.




(3) and (4)

[Repealed 2015-10-160.]






Review or appeal not a stay




72


Unless the minister orders otherwise, a review or an appeal under this
Act does not operate as a stay or suspend the operation of the order,
decision or amendments being reviewed or appealed.




Division 4 — Offences





Offences




73

(1)


A person who contravenes section 49 (2), 68 (5) or 76 (2) commits an
offence and is liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $100 000
or to imprisonment for not more than one year or to both.




(2)

A person who contravenes section 46 (1), 50 (5), 51 (1) or (3) or 61
commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5 000 or to imprisonment for not more than 6 months or to both.




(3)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations




(a)

providing that the contravention of a specified provision of the
regulations constitutes an offence, and




(b)

providing that a person who is convicted of an offence for a
contravention of a specified provision referred to in paragraph (a) is
liable




(i)

to a fine not exceeding a prescribed amount, which prescribed amount
must not be greater than $100 000,




(ii)

to imprisonment for not more than a prescribed period, which
prescribed period must not be longer than one year, or




(iii)

to both.






Section 5 of
Offence Act




74


Section 5 of the

Offence Act

does not apply to this Act or the regulations.






Application of certain
Forest and Range Practices Act
provisions




75


Sections 86, 88, 89, 91, 92 and 98 to 102 of Division 5 of Part 6 of
the

Forest and Range Practices Act

apply to this Act and the regulations unless the context indicates
otherwise.






Interference, non-compliance and misleading




76

(1)


In this section,

"person acting in an official capacity"

means an individual who




(a)

is employed under the

Public Service Act

, and




(b)

is exercising a power or performing a duty or function under this Act.




(2)

A person must not




(a)

without lawful excuse intentionally interfere with a person acting in
an official capacity,




(b)

without lawful excuse intentionally not comply with a lawful
requirement of a person acting in an official capacity, or




(c)

intentionally make a false statement to, or mislead or attempt to
mislead, a person acting in an official capacity.




Part 4 — Miscellaneous and Regulations



Division 1 — Miscellaneous





Delivery of notices and other documents




77


For the purposes of a provision of this Act or the regulations that
requires or permits the delivery of a notice or another document to a
person, the person is presumed to have received the notice or other
document




(a)

on the eighth day after its mailing,




(b)

on it being deposited in the person's




(i)

mailbox, or




(ii)

other receptacle


at the person's residence or place of business, or




(c)

on it being left at the person's residence or place of business with
someone who is or appears to be at least 16 years of age.






Range districts




78


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may




(a)

establish an area of British Columbia as a range district,




(b)

vary the boundaries of a range district,




(c)

change the name of a range district, and




(d)

disestablish a range district.




Division 2 — Regulations





Power to make regulations




79

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
section 41 of the

Interpretation Act

.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations as follows:




(a)

for the purposes of the definition in section 1 (1) of "animal unit
month", respecting the calculation of amounts of forage required by
types of livestock, which may differ according to the animal's type,
sex, stage of development or breed;




(a.1)

for the purposes of section 1 (2) (a), specifying which powers and
duties of the minister under this Act must not be delegated;




(b)

prescribing the rent, fees and costs payable in respect of
applications, licences and permits;




(c)

specifying the form and content of applications for licences or
permits;




(d)

respecting public notice associated with applications for licences or
permits or with entering into licences or permits;




(e)

respecting the form and content of agreements made under section 21;




(f)

governing the use of Crown range other than for grazing or hay cutting
purposes;




(f.1)

for the purposes of sections 21.1 (1) (b) (i) and 29 (1.1) (b) (i),
specifying purposes in relation to the occupation of Crown land;




(f.2)

for the purposes of sections 21.1 (1) (b) (iii) and 29 (1.1) (b)
(iii), specifying interests, rights or privileges in relation to the
use of Crown land or resources that are granted under an enactment;




(g)

for the purposes of sections 39 to 43, prescribing respecting value,
including but not limited to




(i)

determining value and defining the components that comprise value,




(ii)

prescribing methods of evaluation for use in determining value,




(iii)

prescribing factors to be taken into account in an evaluation,




(iv)

defining the role of evaluators in a determination of value and
prescribing qualifications for evaluators that are prerequisite to
their participation in the determination of value, and




(v)

prescribing requirements for the selection of an arbitrator;




(h)

respecting the surrender of a licence or permit;




(i)

respecting reporting and filings by holders of licences and permits of
matters affecting rights under licences and permits, including but not
limited to reporting about




(i)

amalgamation of a holder that is a corporation with one or more other
holders,




(ii)

changes in the control of a holder that is a corporation or
partnership, and




(iii)

the disposition of a licence or permit or of an interest in a licence
or permit;




(j)

defining words or expressions used but not defined in this Act.




(3)

Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations




(a)

respecting administrative penalties that, under section 71 of the

Forest and Range Practices Act

, may be imposed for the contravention of a provision of this Act, and




(b)

respecting charges and administrative penalties in cases in which a
person does not comply with one or more of the following:




(i)

this Act;




(ii)

the regulations;




(iii)

a licence under this Act;




(iv)

a permit under this Act.




(4)

In making a regulation under this Act, the Lieutenant Governor in
Council may do one or more of the following:




(a)

delegate a matter to a person;




(b)

confer a discretion on a person;




(c)

make different regulations for different persons, places, things or
transactions.






Criteria for exercise of discretionary powers




80

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations respecting the
criteria that a person must use

and the matters that a person must consider

in exercising a discretionary power conferred on the person under this
Act.





(
2
)



Criteria or matters prescribed under subsection (1) are additional
to any criteria or matters that a person is required to use or
consider in exercising a discretionary power under this Act.







Repealed




81


[Repealed 2004-71-81 (3).]




Consequential Amendments









[Note: See Table of Legislative Changes for the status of sections
82 and 83.]









Section(s)





Affected Act






82





Land Title Act






83





Park Act








Repeal and Commencement





Repeal




84


The

Range Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 396, is repealed.






Commencement




85


This Act comes into force by regulation of the Lieutenant Governor in
Council.




