




Recall and Initiative Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 398




Part 1 — Introductory Provisions





Definitions




1

(1)


In this Act:



"advertising limit"

means a limit under section 93 (2);



"assistant financial agent"

, in relation to an authorized participant, means an individual
authorized under section 110 (1) by the financial agent for the
authorized participant;



"authorized participant"

means,




(a)

in relation to an initiative petition, an authorized participant
within the meaning of section 29,




(b)

in relation to an initiative vote, an authorized participant within
the meaning of section 59, and




(c)

in relation to a recall petition, an authorized participant within the
meaning of section 107;


"conduct"
includes, in relation to initiative advertising and recall
advertising, publish;



"contribution"

, in relation to initiative advertising, means a contribution of money
provided to a sponsor of such advertising, whether given before or
after the individual or organization acts as a sponsor;



"eligible individual"

means an individual who is, or was immediately before the date of the
individual's death,




(a)

a resident of British Columbia, and




(b)

a Canadian citizen or a permanent resident as defined in the

Immigration and Refugee Protection Act

(Canada);



"expenses limit"

means,




(a)

in relation to an initiative petition, the applicable limit
established under section 48 for initiative petition expenses,




(b)

in relation to an initiative vote, the applicable limit established
under section 74 for initiative vote expenses, and




(c)

in relation to a recall petition, the applicable limit established
under section 123 for recall expenses;



"financial agent"

means,




(a)

in relation to an initiative petition, a financial agent under section
30 or 32,




(b)

in relation to an initiative vote, a financial agent under section 61,
62 or 63, and




(c)

in relation to a recall petition, a financial agent under section 108;


"incur"
means, in relation to an initiative petition expense, an initiative
vote expense or a recall expense, using property or services in a
manner that the value of the property or services is such an expense;



"initiative advertising"

means initiative advertising within the meaning of section 85;



"initiative opinion survey"

means an initiative opinion survey within the meaning of section 85;



"initiative petition"

means a petition to have a proposed law introduced into the
Legislative Assembly;



"initiative petition contribution"

means an initiative petition contribution within the meaning of
Part 4;



"initiative petition expense"

means an initiative petition expense within the meaning of
Part 4;



"initiative petition period"

means the period starting on the day on which an initiative petition
application is approved in principle by the chief electoral officer
and ending




(a)

on the last day under section 4 (4) or 17 (4), as applicable, for
signing the petition, or




(b)

if this is earlier, on the day on which the petition is submitted to
the chief electoral officer in accordance with section 7;



"initiative vote"

means an initiative vote under section 13;



"initiative vote contribution"

means an initiative vote contribution within the meaning of
Part 5;



"initiative vote expense"

means an initiative vote expense within the meaning of Part 5;



"initiative vote period"

means the period starting 60 days before general voting day for an
initiative vote and ending at the close of general voting for the
initiative vote;


"Member"
means a member of the Legislative Assembly;



"non-petition period recall advertising"

means the transmission to the public by any means, outside of a recall
petition period, of an advertising message that directly promotes or
opposes the recall of a Member, but does not include




(a)

the publication without charge of news, an editorial, an interview, a
column, a letter, a debate, a speech or a commentary in a bona fide
periodical publication or a radio or television program,




(b)

the distribution of a book, or the promotion of the sale of a book,
for no less than its commercial value, if the book was planned to be
made available to the public regardless of whether there was to be a
recall,




(c)

the transmission of a document directly by a person or a group to
their members, employees or shareholders, or




(d)

the transmission by an individual, on a non-commercial basis on the
internet, or by telephone or text messaging, of the individual's
personal political views;


"opponent"
means,




(a)

in relation to an initiative petition, an opponent of the petition
within the meaning of section 29 (1) (b), or




(b)

in relation to an initiative vote, an opponent of the vote within the
meaning of section 59 (1) (b),


and, in relation to Parts 4, 5 and 6, includes an individual or
organization who intends to become an opponent or who was an opponent;



"opponent group"

means,




(a)

in relation to an initiative petition, an opponent group for the
petition within the meaning of section 33, or




(b)

in relation to an initiative vote, an opponent group for the vote
within the meaning of section 63 (2);



"permissible loan"

means a loan to




(a)

an authorized participant in relation to a recall petition, or




(b)

a recall advertising sponsor for the purpose of sponsoring recall
advertising


at a rate of interest that is not less than the prime rate of the
principal banker to the government at the time the rate of interest
for the loan is fixed;



"personal recall expenses"

means personal recall expenses within the meaning of section 114;


"petition"
means an initiative petition or a recall petition;



"petition period recall advertising"

means the transmission to the public by any means, during the recall
petition period in respect of a recall petition, of an advertising
message that promotes or opposes, directly or indirectly, the recall
of the Member who is the subject of the petition, but does not include




(a)

the publication without charge of news, an editorial, an interview, a
column, a letter, a debate, a speech or a commentary in a bona fide
periodical publication or a radio or television program,




(b)

the distribution of a book, or the promotion of the sale of a book,
for no less than its commercial value, if the book was planned to be
made available to the public regardless of whether there was to be a
recall,




(c)

the transmission of a document directly by a person or a group to
their members, employees or shareholders, or




(d)

the transmission by an individual, on a non-commercial basis on the
internet, or by telephone or text messaging, of the individual's
personal political views;


"proponent"
means,




(a)

in relation to an initiative petition, the registered voter who
applied for the issuance of the petition,




(b)

in relation to an initiative vote, a proponent within the meaning of
section 59 (1) (a), and




(c)

in relation to a recall petition, the registered voter who applied for
the issuance of the petition,


and, in relation to Parts 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8, includes an individual who
intends to become a proponent or who was a proponent;



"proponent group"

means, in relation to an initiative vote, a proponent group for the
vote within the meaning of section 62 (3);



"recall advertising"

means the following:




(a)

petition period recall advertising;




(b)

non-petition period recall advertising;



"recall contribution"

means a recall contribution within the meaning of Part 7;



"recall expense"

means a recall expense within the meaning of Part 7;



"recall petition"

means a petition issued by the chief electoral officer under this Act
for the recall of a Member;



"recall petition period"

means the period starting on the day on which the chief electoral
officer publishes notice under section 20 (1) (b) of approval in
principle of the recall petition and ending




(a)

on the last day under section 20 (2) for signing the petition, or




(b)

if this is earlier, on the day on which the petition is submitted to
the chief electoral officer in accordance with section 23;



"registered sponsor"

means a sponsor registered under Division 3 of Part 6 in relation to
initiative advertising;



"registered voter"

means a voter who is registered under the

Election Act

as a voter for an electoral district;



"select standing committee"

means the select standing committee of the Legislative Assembly
appointed under section 9;



"signature sheet"

means a sheet for an initiative petition that is to be used for the
signatures of registered voters for a specific electoral district;



"specified fundraising function"

means a fundraising function that




(a)

is attended by one or more of the following:




(i)

a member of the Executive Council;




(ii)

a parliamentary secretary;




(iii)

a leader of a major political party, and




(b)

is held for the purpose of raising funds to be used in relation to a
recall petition by an authorized participant, whether or not there is
certainty as to who will become the authorized participant for the
recall petition;



"sponsorship contribution"

means a sponsorship contribution within the meaning of sections 146.04
to 146.07;


"value"
, in relation to initiative advertising or recall advertising, means




(a)

the price paid for preparing and conducting the advertising, or




(b)

the market value of preparing and conducting the advertising, if no
price is paid or if the price paid is lower than the market value.




(2)

Subject to subsection (1), words and expressions used in this Act,
except "independent", have the meanings given to them in the

Election Act

.




(3)

For the purposes of the definition of "non-petition period recall
advertising", an advertising message that directly promotes or opposes
the recall of a Member is a message that




(a)

names the Member, includes an image or likeness of the Member or
identifies the Member by voice, physical description or electoral
district,




(b)

relates to the recall process under this Act, and




(c)

includes anything else prescribed by regulation.




(4)

Except in relation to sections 137, 138 and 161 (1) (b) and (c), the
transmission of an advertising message, for the purposes of the
definitions of "non-petition period recall advertising" and "petition
period recall advertising", includes the following activities, if the
activities are conducted on a commercial basis to attempt to influence
voters in relation to the recall of a Member:




(a)

canvassing voters, in person or by telephone;




(b)

mailing material that contains advertising messages.




Part 2 — Legislative Initiatives



Division 1 — Initiative Petition





Subject matter of legislative proposals




2


A legislative proposal may be made with respect to any matter within
the jurisdiction of the Legislature.






Application for initiative petition




3

(1)


A registered voter may apply to the chief electoral officer for the
issuance of a petition to have a legislative proposal introduced into
the Legislative Assembly in accordance with this Act.




(2)

The application for the issuance of an initiative petition must
include the following:




(a)

the name and residential address of the applicant;




(b)

a copy of a draft Bill for introduction into the Legislative Assembly;




(c)

a signed statement of the applicant that the applicant is not
disqualified under this Act from making the application;




(d)

any other information that may be prescribed.




(3)

The application for the issuance of an initiative petition must be
accompanied by a processing fee of $50.




(4)

The draft Bill must comply with section 2 and be drafted in a clear
and unambiguous manner.




(5)

The initiative petition must not relate to a legislative proposal that
is the same as or substantially similar to a legislative proposal that
is the subject of another initiative petition if




(a)

the initiative petition period for that other petition has not ended,
or




(b)

that other petition has been submitted to the chief electoral officer
in accordance with section 7 but has not yet been dealt with
under that section and, if applicable, under sections 10 and 11.






Issue of initiative petition




4

(1)


If satisfied that the requirements of section 3 have been met, the
chief electoral officer must




(a)

notify the proponent that the application has been approved in
principle,




(b)

publish notice of the approval in principle in the Gazette and in at
least one newspaper circulating in British Columbia, and




(c)

issue the petition 60 days after the notice is published in the
Gazette.




(2)

Once an application has received approval in principle, the
application and the draft Bill accompanying the application may be
inspected at the office of the chief electoral officer during its
regular office hours.




(3)

An initiative petition must be in the form set out in the regulations
and must have separate signature sheets for each electoral district.




(4)

An initiative petition must be signed within 90 days from the date on
which it is issued by the chief electoral officer, subject to an
extension under section 17 (4).






Who may sign an initiative petition




5

(1)


In order to sign an initiative petition, an individual




(a)

must have been a registered voter on the date the petition was first
issued, and




(b)

on the date the individual signs a signature sheet for the petition,
must be a registered voter for the electoral district for which the
signature sheet was issued.




(2)

An individual may sign any one initiative petition only once.




(3)

An individual who signs an initiative petition must also indicate the
individual's residential address on the petition.






Who may canvass for signatures




6

(1)


A registered voter may canvass for signatures on an initiative
petition if, before the date on which the voter begins canvassing,




(a)

the voter has been resident in British Columbia for at least 6 months,
and




(b)

the voter has registered the voter's name and residential address with
the chief electoral officer.




(2)

A person must not, directly or indirectly, accept any inducement for
canvassing for signatures on an initiative petition.




(3)

A person must not, directly or indirectly, pay, give, lend or procure
any inducement for a person who canvasses for signatures on an
initiative petition.






Requirements for initiative petition




7

(1)


An initiative petition must comply with the following requirements:




(a)

the signature sheets must be submitted to the chief electoral officer
by the end of the period under section 4 (4) or, if applicable, in
accordance with section 17;




(b)

for each electoral district in British Columbia, the signature sheets
for the electoral district must be signed by at least 10% of the total
number of registered voters entitled to sign those signature sheets.




(2)

To be counted for the purpose of subsection (1) (b), a signature on
the petition must be accompanied by the residential address of the
individual who signed and must be witnessed by the individual who
canvassed the signature.




(3)

For the purpose of subsection (1) (b), the total number of registered
voters must be calculated as of the date on which the initiative
petition was first issued.






Continuation of petition if an electoral district is disestablished or
changed




7.01


If an electoral district is disestablished or changed between the time
an initiative petition is issued and the time it is to be submitted to
the chief electoral officer, the references in this Part to an
electoral district are deemed to be a reference to the electoral
district as it was at the time the petition was issued.






Renumbered




7.1


[Renumbered as 7.01 by 2018-41-2.]






Time limit for determination




8


Within 42 days from the day on which the petition is submitted to the
chief electoral officer, the chief electoral officer must determine
whether the petition meets the requirements of section 7.




Division 2 — Select Standing Committee





Select standing committee




9

(1)


At the start of the first session of each Parliament, the committee of
selection appointed under the Standing Orders of the Legislative
Assembly must appoint a select standing committee on Legislative
Initiatives for the purpose of this Act.




(2)

The select standing committee remains in existence until the
dissolution of the Parliament for which the members of the committee
are appointed.




(3)

The select standing committee may meet and conduct its business
regardless of whether or not the Legislative Assembly is in session.






Referral of initiative to select standing committee




10


If the chief electoral officer determines in accordance with the
regulations that




(a)

the initiative petition meets the requirements of section 7, and




(b)

the proponent has complied with Part 4,


the chief electoral officer must send a copy of the petition and draft
Bill to the select standing committee.






Duty of select standing committee




11

(1)


The select standing committee must, within 30 days of receiving a copy
of the initiative petition and draft Bill under section 10, meet to
consider the initiative petition and draft Bill.




(2)

The select standing committee must, within 90 days of the date of its
first meeting,




(a)

table a report recommending that the draft Bill be introduced at the
earliest practicable opportunity, or




(b)

refer the initiative petition and draft Bill to the chief electoral
officer.






Effect of report by select standing committee




12


If the select standing committee tables a report recommending that the
draft Bill be introduced at the earliest practicable opportunity into
the Legislative Assembly, the government must




(a)

introduce the Bill at the earliest practicable opportunity, or




(b)

if the Bill is for the appropriation of any part of the consolidated
revenue fund or of any tax or impost,




(i)

request the Lieutenant Governor to recommend the Bill by a message in
accordance with sections 46 and 47 of the

Constitution Act

to the Legislative Assembly, and




(ii)

introduce the Bill at the earliest practicable opportunity.




Division 3 — Initiative Vote





Initiative vote




13

(1)


If the select standing committee refers the initiative petition and
draft Bill to the chief electoral officer, the chief electoral officer
must hold an initiative vote under this Act.




(2)

On the recommendation of the minister after consultation with the
chief electoral officer, the Lieutenant Governor in Council may make
regulations respecting the conducting of an initiative vote under this
Act.




(3)

Without limiting subsection (2), the regulations may




(a)

specify what provisions of the

Election Act

apply, and




(b)

adapt any of the provisions of the

Election Act

with changes that the regulations may provide.






Initiative voting day every 3 years




14

(1)


If required, initiative votes must be held on September 28, 1996 and
on the last Saturday of September every third year after that date.




(2)

At least 90 days before general voting day for an initiative vote, the
chief electoral officer must publish notice of the vote in the Gazette
and in at least one newspaper circulating in British Columbia.






Determination of successful initiative vote




15

(1)


Subject to Part 5, the chief electoral officer must declare an
initiative vote to be successful if




(a)

more than 50% of the total number of registered voters in British
Columbia vote in favour of the initiative, and




(b)

more than 50% of the total number of registered voters for each of at
least 2/3 of the electoral districts in British Columbia vote in
favour of the initiative.




(2)

For the purpose of subsection (1), the total number of registered
voters must be calculated as of the date of the vote.






Effect of successful initiative vote




16


If the chief electoral officer declares an initiative vote to be
successful, the government must do one of the following:




(a)

introduce the Bill at the earliest practicable opportunity;




(b)

if the Bill is for the appropriation of any part of the consolidated
revenue fund or of any tax or impost,




(i)

request the Lieutenant Governor to recommend the Bill by a message in
accordance with sections 46 and 47 of the

Constitution Act

to the Legislative Assembly, and




(ii)

introduce the Bill at the earliest practicable opportunity.




Division 4 — Effect of General Election





Suspension of petition process during general election




17

(1)


If a general election is called during the 90 day signing period under
section 4 (4) for an initiative petition, after the election is called




(a)

the period for signing the initiative petition is suspended,




(b)

copies of the original signature sheets issued under section 4 may not
be used for further signatures,




(c)

any further signatures for the petition must be on a signature sheet
issued under subsection (3) of this section, and




(d)

signature sheets issued under this section must be signed before the
end of the extended period for signing the petition under subsection
(4) of this section.




(2)

In order to have the initiative petition reissued, the proponent must,
within 72 hours after the day on which the general election is called,
submit to the chief electoral officer all signed copies of the
signature sheets for the petition that were issued under
section 4.




(3)

As soon as practicable after reporting the results of the general
election to the Clerk of the Legislative Assembly, the chief electoral
officer must reissue the petition by issuing new signature sheets that
are marked as being provided under this section.




(4)

Despite any other provision of this Act, the extended period for
signing referred to in subsection (1) (d) begins on the day when the
signature sheets are issued under subsection (3) and ends the number
of days later that is equal to the remaining number of days in the
original signing period under section 4 (4).




(5)

The signature sheets for the reissued petition must be submitted to
the chief electoral officer before the end of the period under
subsection (4).




(6)

For an initiative petition to which this section applies, only those
signature sheets submitted to the chief electoral officer in
accordance with this section are to be considered for the purposes of
section 7 (1) (b).




(7)

If a general election is called between the time when a petition is
submitted under section 7 and the determination under
section 10, the time period under section 8 does not apply and
the chief electoral officer must complete the required determinations
as soon as possible after the return of the writs for the general
election.






General election after petition sent to select standing committee




18

(1)


If a general election is called after the initiative petition and
draft Bill have been sent to the select standing committee but before
it has reached its decision, the new select standing committee
appointed after the election must meet within 30 days from the start
of the first session of the Legislative Assembly following the
election to consider the initiative petition and draft Bill.




(2)

If a general election is called after the select standing committee
has tabled a report under section 11 (2) (a) but before the Bill has
been introduced into the Legislative Assembly, the government must




(a)

introduce the Bill at the first session of the Legislative Assembly
following the election, or




(b)

if the Bill is for the appropriation of any part of the consolidated
revenue fund or of any tax or impost,




(i)

request the Lieutenant Governor to recommend the Bill by a message in
accordance with sections 46 and 47 of the

Constitution Act

to the Legislative Assembly, and




(ii)

introduce the Bill at the first session of the Legislative Assembly
following the election.




Part 3 — Recall



Division 1 — Recall Petition





Application for recall petition




19

(1)


A registered voter for an electoral district may apply under
subsection (2) for the issuance of a petition for the recall of the
Member of the Legislative Assembly for that electoral district.




(2)

The application for the issuance of a recall petition must be made to
the chief electoral officer and contain the following:




(a)

the name of the Member;




(b)

the name and residential address of the applicant;




(c)

a statement, not exceeding 200 words, setting out why, in the opinion
of the applicant, the recall of the Member is warranted;




(d)

a signed statement of the applicant that the applicant is not
disqualified under this Act from making the application;




(e)

any other information that may be prescribed.




(3)

The application for the issuance of a recall petition must be
accompanied by a processing fee of $50.




(4)

No application for the issuance of a recall petition may be made




(a)

during the 18 months following final voting day for the last election
of the Member, or




(b)

during the 6 months before the applicable final voting day under
section 23 (2) of the

Constitution Act

for the next general election.




(5)

The chief electoral officer must, as soon as practicable after
receiving an application under this section for the issuance of a
recall petition, publish notice of the application on an Elections BC
authorized internet site.






Issue of recall petition




20

(1)


If satisfied that the requirements of section 19 have been met, the
chief electoral officer must




(a)

notify the proponent, the Member in relation to whom the petition is
to be issued and the Speaker that the application has been approved in
principle,




(b)

as soon as practicable after giving the notices under paragraph (a),
publish notice of the approval in principle on an Elections BC
authorized internet site, and




(c)

as soon as practicable after publishing the notice under paragraph
(b), issue the petition in the form set out in the regulations.




(2)

A recall petition must be signed within 60 days from the date on which
it is issued by the chief electoral officer.




(3)

Once an application has received approval in principle, it may be
inspected at the office of the chief electoral officer during its
regular office hours.






No more than one current recall petition respecting Member




20.01


If the chief electoral officer issues a recall petition under section
20, the chief electoral officer must not issue any further recall
petition in relation to the same Member until, as applicable,




(a)

if the petition is not submitted in accordance with section 23 (1)
(a), 60 days after the date on which the petition was issued under
section 20, or




(b)

the date on which the chief electoral officer concludes that a
determination under section 25 cannot be made.






Who may sign a recall petition




21

(1)


In order to sign a recall petition, an individual




(a)

must have been a registered voter for the electoral district for which
the Member was elected on final voting day for the last election of
the Member, and




(b)

on the date the individual signs the petition, must be a registered
voter for an electoral district in British Columbia.




(2)

An individual may sign any one recall petition only once.




(3)

An individual who signs a recall petition must also indicate the
individual's residential address on the petition.






Who may canvass for signatures




22

(1)


A registered voter may canvass for signatures on a recall petition if,
before the date on which the voter begins canvassing,




(a)

the voter has been resident in British Columbia for at least
6 months, and




(b)

the voter has registered the voter's name and residential address with
the chief electoral officer.




(2)

A person must not, directly or indirectly, accept any inducement for
canvassing for signatures on a recall petition.




(3)

A person must not, directly or indirectly, pay, give, lend or procure
any inducement for a person who canvasses for signatures on a recall
petition.






Requirements for recall petition




23

(1)


A recall petition must comply with the following requirements:




(a)

the petition must be submitted to the chief electoral officer within
60 days after the date on which the petition was issued under
section 20;




(b)

the petition must be signed by more than 40% of the total number of
individuals who are entitled to sign the recall petition under
section 21.




(2)

To be counted for the purpose of subsection (1) (b), a signature on
the petition must be accompanied by the residential address of the
individual who signed and must be witnessed by the individual who
canvassed the signature.






Time limit for determination




24


When a recall petition is submitted to the chief electoral officer,
the chief electoral officer must determine within 42 days and in
accordance with the regulations, if any, whether the petition meets
the requirements of section 23.






Report of unsuccessful recall petition




24.01


If the chief electoral officer determines that




(a)

the recall petition does not meet the requirements of section 23, or




(b)

the proponent has not complied with Part 7,


the chief electoral officer must report this to the Member, the
proponent and the Speaker of the Legislative Assembly as soon as
possible after making the determination.






Result of successful recall petition




25

(1)


If the chief electoral officer determines that




(a)

the recall petition meets the requirements of section 23, and




(b)

the proponent has complied with Part 7,


the Member ceases to hold office and the seat of the Member becomes
vacant.




(2)

The chief electoral officer must report to the Member and to the
Speaker of the Legislative Assembly as soon as possible after making a
determination under subsection (1).




Division 2 — By-election





Election




26


When a Member's office becomes vacant as the result of a recall
petition, an election must be held to fill the vacancy in accordance
with section 35 of the

Constitution Act

.






Prohibition on multiple elections with respect to the same electoral
district




27


Only one election for any electoral district may be held under this
Act during the period between general elections.






Application of
Election Act




28


The

Election Act

applies to an election under this Act.




Part 4 — Initiative Petition Financing



Division 1 — Authorized Participants and Financial Agents





Authorized participants must have financial agent




29

(1)


The authorized participants for an initiative petition are




(a)

the proponent of the petition, and




(b)

the opponents of the petition, being the individuals and organizations
for whom a financial agent has been designated under section 32.




(2)

An authorized participant may only accept initiative petition
contributions and incur initiative petition expenses through the
financial agent for the authorized participant.




(3)

The following are disqualified from acting as financial agent:




(a)

an election official, a voter registration official or an individual
who is otherwise a member of the staff of the chief electoral officer;




(b)

an individual who does not have full capacity to enter into contracts;




(c)

an individual who is disqualified under section 53, 56, 79 or 82;




(d)

an individual who, at any time within the previous 7 years, has
been convicted of an offence under this Act or the

Election Act

.






Financial agent for proponent




30

(1)


Within 60 days after the day on which notice of approval in principle
for an application for an initiative petition is published in the
Gazette, the proponent must deliver the following to the chief
electoral officer:




(a)

a statement as to whether or not the proponent is acting as the
proponent's own financial agent;




(b)

if the proponent is not acting as the proponent's own financial agent,
a copy of the appointment and the consent and statement referred to in
subsection (2) (b);




(c)

an address to which notices under this Act may be delivered to the
financial agent or the proponent, as referred to in section 166.




(2)

The appointment of a financial agent for a proponent must be made in
writing and must




(a)

include the name, mailing address and telephone number of the
individual appointed and the effective date of the appointment, and




(b)

be accompanied by




(i)

a signed consent of the individual appointed to act as financial
agent, and




(ii)

a signed statement of the individual appointed that the individual is
not disqualified from acting as a financial agent.




(3)

If there is any change in who is the financial agent for a proponent,
the proponent must, as soon as possible, notify the chief electoral
officer of this change and, for these purposes, must deliver notice in
accordance with subsection (1) (a) to (c).






Application to become an opponent of an initiative petition




31

(1)


An individual or organization who wishes to be an opponent of an
initiative petition must apply to the chief electoral officer in
accordance with this section within 30 days after the day on
which notice of approval in principle for the petition is published in
the Gazette.




(2)

An application must include the name of an individual proposed as
financial agent for the applicant, who




(a)

may be the applicant, another applicant or someone who is not an
applicant, and




(b)

may be proposed as the financial agent for another applicant.




(3)

In addition to the name of the individual proposed as financial agent
for the applicant, an application must include the following:




(a)

the full name of the applicant and, in the case of an applicant
organization that has a different usual name, this usual name;




(b)

the full address and telephone number of the applicant and, if this is
different, the address to which notices under this Act and other
communications may be delivered to the applicant, as referred to in
section 166;




(c)

in the case of an applicant organization, the names of the principal
officers of the organization or, if there are no principal officers,
of the principal members of the organization;




(d)

a statement that the applicant opposes the initiative;




(e)

a statement that the applicant is not disqualified from being an
authorized participant.




(4)

An application must be signed, as applicable, by the individual
applicant or, in the case of an applicant organization, by 2 principal
officers of the organization or, if there are no principal officers,
by 2 principal members of the organization.




(5)

The chief electoral officer may require applications to be in a
specified form.




(6)

An application is not complete unless the individual who is proposed
as financial agent files the following with the chief electoral
officer before the end of the application period under subsection (1):




(a)

the individual's signed consent to act as financial agent if
designated under section 32;




(b)

the individual's name, mailing address and telephone number;




(c)

an address to which, if the individual is designated, notices under
this Act may be delivered to the financial agent or the opponents or
opponent group for whom the individual is acting as financial agent,
as referred to in section 166;




(d)

a signed statement that the individual is not disqualified from acting
as a financial agent.






Financial agents for opponents




32

(1)


The chief electoral officer must designate financial agents for
opponents in accordance with this section as soon as possible after
the end of the application period under section 31 (1).




(2)

If one individual is proposed under section 31 as financial agent by
50% or more of the total number of applicants under that section, the
chief electoral officer must designate that individual as financial
agent for the applicants by whom the individual was proposed.




(3)

If 2 or more individuals proposed under section 31 as financial agent
are each proposed by 20% or more of the total number of applicants
under that section, the chief electoral officer must designate those
individuals as financial agents for the applicants by whom they were
proposed.




(4)

If




(a)

none of the individuals proposed under section 31 as financial
agent are proposed by 20% or more of the total number of applicants
under that section, or




(b)

only one individual is proposed under section 31 as financial
agent by 20% or more, but less than 50%, of the total number of
applicants under that section,


the chief electoral officer must proceed in accordance with
subsections (5) and (6).




(5)

In the circumstances referred to in subsection (4), the chief
electoral officer must notify the applicants of the following:




(a)

the results of the process under this section up to this time;




(b)

the names, addresses and telephone numbers of the other individuals
and organizations that have applied to become opponents;




(c)

the names, addresses and telephone numbers of the individuals who have
been proposed as financial agent by the applicants.




(6)

An applicant who is notified under subsection (5) may file a signed
statement with the chief electoral officer indicating, for the purpose
of subsection (8), the individual proposed by the applicant as
financial agent, who may be




(a)

the same individual that the applicant originally proposed under
section 31 as financial agent, or




(b)

an individual proposed under section 31 as financial agent by another
applicant.




(7)

A statement under subsection (6) must be filed with the chief
electoral officer within 29 days after the end of the application
period under section 31 (1) and must be signed, as applicable, by the
individual applicant or by 2 principal officers of the applicant
organization.




(8)

After the 29 day period referred to in subsection (7),




(a)

if one or more of the individuals proposed under section 31 is
proposed as financial agent by 20% or more of the applicants, as
indicated by the signed statements under subsection (6) of this
section, the chief electoral officer must designate each of those
individuals as financial agent for the applicants by whom they were
proposed, and




(b)

if none of the individuals proposed under section 31 are proposed
as financial agent by 20% or more of the applicants, as indicated by
the signed statements under subsection (6) of this section, no
financial agent is to be designated under this section and no
individual or organization may act as an opponent.






Notice to opponent groups




33

(1)


The opponents for whom the same financial agent is designated are,
together, an opponent group for the initiative petition.




(2)

As soon as possible after financial agents are designated under
section 32, the chief electoral officer must give notice of the
following to the applicants for whom financial agents have been
designated:




(a)

that they are opponents for the initiative petition;




(b)

the name, address and telephone number of the individual who has been
designated as their financial agent;




(c)

the other opponents who are part of their opponent group;




(d)

the initiative petition expenses limit for their opponent group
determined in accordance with section 48 (2).




(3)

If applicable, the chief electoral officer must notify those
applicants for whom no financial agent has been designated that they
will not be and must not act as opponents of the initiative petition
for the purposes of this Act.




(4)

If an individual designated as a financial agent for an opponent group
is unable to act as financial agent, the chief electoral officer may
designate another individual as financial agent for the opponent group
and, for this purpose, may establish a process for selecting that
other individual.






General obligations of financial agent




34

(1)


Without limiting the obligations of a financial agent of an authorized
participant under any other provision of this Act, a financial agent
must do the following:




(a)

ensure that all initiative petition contributions, initiative petition
expenses and other income and expenditures in relation to the
initiative petition are properly recorded to allow compliance with the
reporting requirements of this Act;




(b)

ensure that all money received by or on behalf of the authorized
participant in relation to an initiative petition is deposited in an
account in a savings institution and that all expenditures of the
authorized participant are paid from an account in a savings
institution;




(c)

ensure that all records required to be kept for the purposes of this
Act by the authorized participant are maintained in British Columbia;




(d)

ensure that all financial records and receipts of the authorized
participant in relation to this Act are retained for at least
5 years from the date of filing of any report under this Act
required in relation to them;




(e)

make every reasonable effort to ensure that every expenditure greater
than the applicable amount under section 177 (2) (e) of the

Election Act

that is incurred by the authorized participant in relation to the
initiative petition is documented by a statement setting out the
particulars of the expenditure.




(1.1)

For the purposes of subsection (1) (b), a financial agent must ensure
that a separate account is established for each authorized participant
for whom the financial agent is acting.




(2)

A financial agent is not personally liable for any liability of an
authorized participant for whom the financial agent is acting unless
the liability is personally guaranteed by the financial agent.






Assistant financial agent




35

(1)


A financial agent may authorize one or more individuals to accept
initiative petition contributions and incur initiative petition
expenses on behalf of the financial agent.




(2)

An individual who is authorized under subsection (1) to accept
initiative petition contributions and incur initiative petition
expenses has, for those purposes, all the powers, duties and
protections of the financial agent.




(3)

As soon as practicable after an authorization under subsection (1) is
made, a copy of the authorization must be delivered to the chief
electoral officer.




Division 2 — Initiative Petition Contributions and Expenses





Initiative petition contributions generally




36

(1)


Subject to this Part, an initiative petition contribution is an amount
of money or the value of any property or services provided without
compensation by way of donation, advance, deposit, discount or
otherwise to an authorized participant in relation to an initiative
petition.




(2)

If property or services are provided to an authorized participant at
less than market value or acquired from an authorized participant at
greater than market value, the difference between the market value of
the property or services at the time provided and the amount charged
is an initiative petition contribution.




(3)

The amount of any money, but not the value of any property or
services, provided in relation to an initiative petition by an
authorized participant who is an individual is an initiative petition
contribution.




(4)

The value of the following is not an initiative petition contribution:




(a)

services provided by a volunteer;




(b)

property of a volunteer if the property is provided or used in
relation to the services of the individual as a volunteer;




(c)

property or services provided by an election official, a voter
registration official or any other member of the staff of the chief
electoral officer in that official capacity;




(d)

publishing, without charge, news, an editorial, an interview, a
column, a letter or a commentary in a genuine periodical publication
or a radio or television program;




(e)

broadcasting time provided, without charge, as part of a genuine
public affairs program;




(f)

producing, promoting or distributing a publication for no less than
its market value, if the publication was planned to be sold regardless
of the petition.






Initiative petition contributions through loans and debts




37

(1)


A loan to an authorized participant is not an initiative petition
contribution unless it is forgiven or written off.




(2)

If a loan to an authorized participant is made at a rate of interest
that is less than the prime rate of the principal banker to the
government at the time the rate of interest for the loan is set, the
benefit of the difference between the amount of interest that would be
payable at that prime rate and the amount of interest being charged
for the loan is an initiative petition contribution.




(3)

The amount of a debt owed by an authorized participant in relation to
initiative petition expenses is an initiative petition contribution if
it remains unpaid for 6 months after becoming due and no legal
proceedings to recover the debt have been commenced by the creditor.




(4)

For certainty, nothing in subsection (3) affects the rights of a
creditor in relation to a debt that becomes an initiative petition
contribution under that subsection.






Initiative petition contributions through fundraising functions




38

(1)


Except as provided in this section or if received as anonymous
contributions under section 41 (1) (f), funds raised by an initiative
petition fundraising function held by or on behalf of an authorized
participant are not initiative petition contributions.




(2)

If a charge per individual is made for an initiative petition
fundraising function, the following rules apply:




(a)

the payment of the charge by an organization is an initiative petition
contribution;




(b)

if the per individual charge is greater than $50, or a higher amount
established by regulation, the payment of the charge by an individual
is an initiative petition contribution;




(c)

if the per individual charge is the amount referred to in paragraph
(b) or less,




(i)

the payment by an individual of more than $250, or a higher amount
established by regulation, in respect of one or more charges, is an
initiative petition contribution, and




(ii)

the payment by an individual of the amount referred to in subparagraph
(i) or less, in respect of one or more charges, is not an initiative
petition contribution.




(3)

If the amount paid for property or services offered for sale at an
initiative petition fundraising function is greater than their market
value, the difference between the amount paid and the market value at
the time it is agreed to be paid is an initiative petition
contribution.




(4)

The value of property or services, or both, donated by an organization
or individual for sale at an initiative petition fundraising function
is an initiative petition contribution unless the property or services
or both, as applicable,




(a)

are used for sale at the initiative petition fundraising function, and




(b)

have a total value that is not greater than the applicable amount
under section 182 (4) (b) of the

Election Act

.






Initiative petition expenses




39

(1)


Subject to this Part, an initiative petition expense is the value of
property or services used during an initiative petition period to
promote or oppose, directly or indirectly, an initiative petition or
draft Bill.




(2)

A deficit incurred in holding an initiative petition fundraising
function during an initiative petition period is an initiative
petition expense.




(3)

The value of the following is not an initiative petition expense:




(a)

property and services referred to in section 36 (4);




(b)

goods produced by an individual as a volunteer from the property of
the individual;




(c)

goods produced by an authorized participant who is an individual from
the property of the authorized participant.






General valuation rules




40

(1)


The rules in this section apply for the purpose of determining the
value of an initiative petition contribution or initiative petition
expense unless otherwise expressly provided in this Part.




(2)

The value of any property or services is




(a)

the price paid for the property or services, or




(b)

the market value of the property or services, if no price is paid or
if the price paid is lower than the market value.




(3)

If the property is a capital asset, the value of the property is the
market value of using the property.




(4)

The value of free advertising space in a periodical publication and
free broadcasting time provided to an authorized participant for an
initiative petition is nil if the space or time is made available on
an equitable basis to both the proponent and the opponent groups.




Division 3 — Making and Accepting Initiative Petition Contributions





Restrictions on making initiative petition contributions




41

(1)


An individual or organization must not do any of the following:




(a)

make an initiative petition contribution to an authorized participant
except by making it to the financial agent;




(b)

make an initiative petition contribution without disclosing to the
financial agent the information required to be recorded under
section 45;




(c)

make an initiative petition contribution of money in an amount greater
than the applicable amount under section 186 (1) (c) of the

Election Act

, except by means of




(i)

a cheque with the name of the contributor legibly shown on it and
drawn on an account in the contributor's name maintained in a savings
institution,




(ii)

a money order with the name of the contributor legibly shown on it and
signed by the contributor, or




(iii)

a credit card in the name of the contributor, evidenced by an
authorization for the payment with the name of the contributor legibly
shown on it and signed by the contributor;




(d)

make an initiative petition contribution with the money, other
property or services of another;




(e)

make an initiative petition contribution indirectly by giving money,
other property or services to an individual or organization




(i)

for that individual or organization to make as an initiative petition
contribution, or




(ii)

as consideration for that individual or organization making an
initiative petition contribution;




(f)

make an anonymous initiative petition contribution unless the
contribution




(i)

is provided in response to a general solicitation for funds at a
function held on behalf of or in relation to the affairs of the
authorized participant to whom the contribution is provided, and




(ii)

has a value of less than the applicable amount under section 186 (1)
(f) (ii) of the

Election Act

.




(2)

As an exception to subsection (1) (d), an individual or organization
may make an initiative petition contribution indirectly by providing
compensation to an individual who provides services that are an
initiative petition contribution, in which case the individual or
organization providing the compensation is the contributor for the
purposes of this Act.






Restrictions on accepting initiative petition contributions




42

(1)


A financial agent must not accept an initiative petition contribution
that the financial agent has reason to believe is made in
contravention of this Act.




(2)

If an individual authorized under section 35 becomes aware that an
initiative petition contribution may have been made in contravention
of this Act, the individual must immediately inform the financial
agent.






Limits on anonymous contributions




43

(1)


A financial agent must not accept, in relation to an initiative
petition, more than 50% of the applicable amount under section 188 (1)
of the

Election Act

in permitted anonymous contributions under section 41 (1) (f) of this
Act.




(2)

A financial agent must not accept an anonymous initiative petition
contribution if this will exceed the limit under subsection (1).






Prohibited contributions must be returned




44

(1)


If a financial agent becomes aware that an initiative petition
contribution was made or accepted in contravention of this Act, the
financial agent must return to the contributor




(a)

the initiative petition contribution, or




(b)

an amount equal to the value of the initiative petition contribution,


within 14 days after the financial agent becomes aware of the
contravention.




(2)

If a financial agent is not able to comply with subsection (1), as
soon as practicable the financial agent must instead pay the amount
referred to in that subsection to the chief electoral officer for
payment to the consolidated revenue fund.




(3)

If an account maintained by a financial agent for the proponent
contains insufficient funds to make a payment required under
subsection (1) or (2), the proponent is liable to provide the
necessary funds to meet the deficiency.




(4)

If an account maintained by a financial agent for an opponent group
contains insufficient funds to make a payment required under
subsection (1) or (2), the members of the opponent group are jointly
and separately liable to provide the necessary funds to meet the
deficiency.






Financial agent must record each initiative petition contribution




45

(1)


For the purposes of complying with the reporting requirements of this
Part, a financial agent must record the following for each initiative
petition contribution made to the authorized participant:




(a)

the value of the contribution;




(b)

the date the contribution was made;




(c)

the full name and address of the contributor;




(d)

the class of the contributor as described in subsection (2);




(e)

if the contributor is a numbered corporation or an unincorporated
organization, the full names and addresses of at least 2 individuals




(i)

who are directors of the organization, or




(ii)

if there are no individual directors, who are principal officers or
principal members of the organization.




(2)

Contributors must be classified as follows:




(a)

individuals;




(b)

corporations;




(c)

unincorporated organizations engaged in business or commercial
activity;




(d)

trade unions;




(e)

non-profit organizations;




(f)

other contributors.




(3)

As an exception in the case of anonymous contributions permitted under
section 41 (1) (f), the financial agent must record the following:




(a)

a description of the function at which the contributions were
collected;




(b)

the date of the function;




(c)

the number of people in attendance at the function;




(d)

the total amount of anonymous contributions accepted.




(4)

In the case of a loan referred to in section 37, at the time the loan
is made the financial agent must record the following:




(a)

the information referred to in subsection (1) (b) to (e);




(b)

the amount of the loan;




(c)

the rate of interest charged for the loan.




(5)

For an initiative petition fundraising function held by or on behalf
of an authorized participant, the financial agent must record the
following:




(a)

a description of the function;




(b)

the date of the function;




(c)

the cost, the gross income and the net income or loss arising from the
function.




Division 4 — Initiative Petition Expenses





Restrictions on who may incur initiative petition expenses




46

(1)


Subject to section 93, an individual or organization other than an
authorized participant must not incur an initiative petition expense.




(2)

The financial agent of an authorized participant must not pay an
initiative petition expense unless the payment is made out of the
property of the authorized participant for whom it is incurred.






Initiative petition expenses in excess of limit prohibited




47

(1)


As applicable,




(a)

a proponent must not incur an initiative petition expense if incurring
the expense will result in the initiative petition expenses of the
proponent exceeding the expenses limit determined under section 48
(1), and




(b)

a member of an opponent group must not incur an initiative petition
expense if incurring the expense will result in the initiative
petition expenses for the opponent group exceeding the expenses limit
determined for that opponent group under section 48 (2).




(2)

The following expenses are not to be included as initiative petition
expenses for the purpose of determining whether an authorized
participant has complied with the applicable expenses limit:




(a)

fees charged by the chief electoral officer under this Act;




(b)

costs incurred for producing copies of the petition in accordance with
the regulations;




(c)

legal or accounting services provided to comply with this Act or the
regulations;




(d)

services provided by a financial agent in that capacity;




(e)

expenses incurred in holding a fundraising function if no deficit is
incurred;




(f)

interest on a loan for initiative petition expenses to an authorized
participant;




(g)

the cost of any communication that an authorized participant that is
an organization sends exclusively to its members;




(h)

expenses prescribed for the purposes of this section by regulation.




(3)

An initiative petition expense that is not included for the purpose of
calculating whether there has been compliance with a limit under this
Part remains an initiative petition expense and is subject to all
other provisions of this Act.






Initiative petition expenses limit




48

(1)


The value of initiative petition expenses incurred by the proponent or
in total by the members of all the opponent groups of the initiative
petition during an initiative petition period must not exceed the
limit calculated by multiplying




(a)

the applicable amount under subsection (3) or (4), and




(b)

the number of registered voters for all electoral districts in British
Columbia as of the date on which the petition was issued.




(2)

The chief electoral officer must determine the expenses limit for each
opponent group by allocating the limit calculated under subsection (1)
to the groups in the same proportion as the number of members in the
group bears to the total number of members in all of the opponent
groups.




(3)

For an initiative petition that is issued during the period beginning
on February 24, 1995 and ending on December 31, 1995, the amount to be
used under subsection (1) (a) is $0.25.




(4)

For each initiative petition period that begins on or after January 1,
1996, the chief electoral officer must adjust the amount under
subsection (3) and, for these purposes, sections 204 (2) and 270.01 of
the

Election Act

apply.




(5)

The chief electoral officer must




(a)

have notice of an adjusted amount under subsection (4) published in
the Gazette, and




(b)

give notice of the applicable expenses limit to the financial agents
for the authorized participants.




Division 5 — Reporting





Reporting of information regarding initiative petition contributions




49

(1)


Where this Act requires that initiative petition contributions be
disclosed in a report, the report must include the following:




(a)

for each contributor who made one or more initiative petition
contributions that in total have a value of more than the applicable
amount under section 206 (1) (a) of the

Election Act

, the information required to be recorded under section 45 (1) of this
Act, other than the address of an individual;




(b)

for anonymous contributions, the information required to be recorded
under section 45 (3);




(c)

for contributions not referred to in paragraph (a) or (b), the
aggregate value of the contributions received and the total number of
contributors from whom they were received.




(2)

On request by the chief electoral officer, a contributor must file
with the chief electoral officer a solemn declaration that the
contributor has not contravened this Act or the regulations.






Initiative petition financing report




50

(1)


Within 28 days after the end of the initiative petition period, the
financial agent of the proponent and the financial agent of each
opponent group must file with the chief electoral officer on behalf of
the authorized participant for whom the financial agent is acting a
financing report in accordance with this section.




(2)

A financing report must include the following:




(a)

the initiative petition expenses incurred by the authorized
participant, showing separately those expenses that are not included
for the purposes of determining whether the applicable expenses limit
was exceeded;




(b)

the initiative petition contributions accepted by the authorized
participant, reported in accordance with section 49;




(c)

any loans or guarantees received by the authorized participant for
initiative petition expenses and any conditions attached to them,
including for the loans referred to in section 37 the information
recorded under section 45 (4) other than the address of an individual;




(d)

for initiative petition fundraising functions held by or on behalf of
the authorized participant, the information recorded under section 45
(5);




(e)

any income received and any expenditures made or incurred by the
authorized participant in relation to the initiative petition, if
these are not otherwise disclosed in the report;




(f)

any initiative petition contributions received but returned or
otherwise dealt with in accordance with section 44.




(3)

A supplementary report must be filed with the chief electoral officer
as follows:




(a)

if any of the information required to be disclosed in a report filed
under this section changes, the financial agent must file a
supplementary report within 14 days after the financial agent or an
authorized participant becomes aware of the change;




(b)

if the financial agent or an authorized participant for whom the
financial agent is acting becomes aware that a report under this
section did not completely and accurately disclose the information
required to be disclosed in the report, the financial agent must file
a supplementary report within 14 days after the financial agent
or authorized participant becomes aware of the incompleteness or
inaccuracy.




(4)

A report under this section must be prepared in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles and must be filed with a
signed statement of the financial agent as to its accuracy.




(5)

After examining a report under this section, the chief electoral
officer may require the report to be audited in accordance with the
directions of the chief electoral officer at the expense of the
authorized participant and may establish a time limit by which the
financial agent must provide the report to the chief electoral
officer.




(6)

A report under this section must be available for public inspection at
the office of the chief electoral officer during its regular office
hours until one year after the day on which the next initiative vote
may be held under section 14.




(7)

For certainty, a report under this section is required even if the
initiative petition is not submitted to the chief electoral officer in
accordance with section 7.






Publication of financing summary




51


As soon as practicable after a financing report under section 50 (1)
is received, the chief electoral officer must publish a report
including the following:




(a)

the name of the authorized participant on whose behalf the financing
report is filed;




(b)

an identification of the relevant initiative petition;




(c)

a summary of the information included in the financing report;




(d)

a statement of the applicable expenses limit;




(e)

a statement as to whether the authorized participant complied with the
applicable expenses limit.




Division 6 — Penalties for Failure to Comply





Publication of failure to comply




52

(1)


The chief electoral officer must have notice of the following
published in the Gazette:




(a)

the name of an authorized participant for whom an initiative petition
financing report is not filed in accordance with section 50;




(b)

the name of an authorized participant for whom a required initiative
petition financing report is not filed in accordance with
section 55;




(c)

the name of an authorized participant who exceeds the applicable
expenses limit;




(d)

the name of an authorized participant in relation to whom there was a
conviction under section 162 in relation to an initiative
petition financing report.




(2)

Publication under subsection (1) must take place as soon as possible
after the chief electoral officer becomes aware of the applicable
circumstances referred to in that subsection.






Effect of incurring expenses over limit




53

(1)


Unless relief is granted by a court under section 54,




(a)

if the proponent exceeds the expenses limit,




(i)

the initiative petition fails, and




(ii)

the proponent must pay to the chief electoral officer a penalty of
double the amount by which the expenses exceed the limit, and




(b)

if the total initiative petition expenses of an opponent group exceed
the expenses limit for that opponent group, the members of the
opponent group are jointly and separately liable to pay to the chief
electoral officer a penalty of 10 times the amount by which the
expenses exceed the limit.




(2)

Subsection (1) (a) does not prevent the government from introducing
into the Legislative Assembly the draft Bill that was the subject of
the initiative petition.




(3)

The penalties referred to in subsection (1) are effective as follows:




(a)

if no application under section 54 is made in respect of an authorized
participant subject to the penalty, at the end of the period for
making such an application;




(b)

if, on the final determination of an application under
section 54, the court refuses to grant relief from the penalty,
at the time of that determination.




(4)

In all cases, until the applicable penalty under subsection (1) is
paid, an authorized participant who exceeds the initiative petition
expenses limit is not eligible




(a)

to apply for the issuance of a petition under section 3,




(b)

to become an authorized participant for an initiative petition or an
initiative vote, or




(c)

to act as a financial agent in relation to an initiative petition or
an initiative vote.




(5)

A penalty received by the chief electoral officer under this section
must be paid into the consolidated revenue fund.






Court order for relief from expenses limit




54

(1)


An authorized participant may apply to the Supreme Court in accordance
with this section for relief from section 53 for failing to
comply with an expenses limit.




(2)

An application may be made only




(a)

within 58 days after the end of the initiative petition period, or




(b)

if the failure to comply is disclosed by a supplementary report under
section 50 (3), within 14 days after the day on which the
supplementary report is filed.




(3)

Within 7 days after it is filed, the petition commencing an
application must be served on the chief electoral officer and the
financial agents for the other authorized participants.




(4)

The applicant, the other authorized participants and the chief
electoral officer are parties to the application.




(5)

On the hearing of an application, the court may




(a)

grant relief if the court considers that, in relation to the
non-compliance, the financial agent and the applicant have acted in
good faith, or




(b)

refuse to grant relief.






Late filing of required reports




55

(1)


This section applies if a financial agent fails to file a report under
Division 5 of this Part with the chief electoral officer within the
time period established by that Division or by a court under
section 57.




(2)

The chief electoral officer must give notice to the proponent or
opponents for whom the report was to be filed that, if the report is
not filed within the late filing period permitted by this section, the
proponent or opponents will be subject to the penalties provided in
this Division unless an extension is granted by a court under
section 57.




(3)

On payment to the chief electoral officer of a late filing fee of the
applicable amount under section 220 (5) (b) of the

Election Act

, the report may be filed within 30 days after the end of the time
period for filing established by Division 5 of this Part or before a
later date permitted by a court under section 57 of this Act.






Failure to file initiative petition financing report




56

(1)


Unless relief is granted by a court on an application under section 57
commenced before the end of the late filing period under section 55
(3), the following penalties apply if an initiative petition financing
report is not filed with the chief electoral officer before the end of
that period:




(a)

in the case of a report for the proponent,




(i)

the initiative petition fails, and




(ii)

the proponent must pay a penalty of the applicable amount under
section 220 (5) (a) of the

Election Act

to the chief electoral officer for each day after the last day on
which it may be filed under section 55 of this Act up to the date on
which it is in fact filed;




(b)

in the case of a report for an opponent group, the opponents who are
members of the opponent group are jointly and separately liable to pay
a penalty of the applicable amount under section 220 (5) (b) of the

Election Act

to the chief electoral officer for each day after the last day on
which it may be filed under section 55 of this Act up to the date on
which it is in fact filed.




(2)

Subsection (1) (a) does not prevent the government from introducing
into the Legislative Assembly the draft Bill that was the subject of
the initiative petition that failed because of the application of that
subsection.




(3)

The penalties referred to in subsection (1) are effective as follows:




(a)

if no application under section 57 is made in respect of an authorized
participant subject to the penalty, at the end of the period for
making such an application;




(b)

if, on the final determination of an application under section 57, the
court refuses to grant relief from the penalty, at the time of that
determination.




(4)

In all cases, until the applicable penalty under subsection (1) is
paid and the report is filed, an authorized participant who fails to
file an initiative petition financing report is not eligible




(a)

to apply for the issuance of a petition under section 3,




(b)

to become an authorized participant for an initiative petition or an
initiative vote, or




(c)

to act as a financial agent in relation to an initiative petition or
an initiative vote.






Court order for relief from filing obligations




57

(1)


An authorized participant may apply to the Supreme Court in accordance
with this section for relief from an obligation to file a financing
report in accordance with this Act.




(2)

An application may be made only




(a)

within 58 days after the end of the initiative petition period, or




(b)

in the case of a supplementary report referred to in section 50 (3),
within 14 days after the authorized participant becomes aware of the
change, incompleteness or inaccuracy referred to in that section.




(3)

Within 7 days after it is filed, the petition commencing an
application must be served on the chief electoral officer and on the
financial agents for the other authorized participants.




(4)

The applicant, the other authorized participants and the chief
electoral officer are parties to the application.




(5)

On the hearing of an application, the court may do the following:




(a)

relieve the authorized participant from the obligation to file the
report, or from specified obligations in relation to the report, if
the court considers that, in relation to the non-compliance, the
financial agent and the applicant have acted in good faith;




(b)

grant an extension of the time for filing the report without payment
of a late filing fee under section 55 if




(i)

the application is commenced before the end of the time for filing
without penalty, and




(ii)

the court considers that, in relation to the non-compliance, the
financial agent and the applicant have acted in good faith;




(c)

grant an extension of the time for filing the report, subject to
payment of the late filing fee under section 55, if the court
considers that, in relation to the non-compliance, the financial agent
and the applicant have acted in good faith;




(d)

make any order the court considers appropriate to secure compliance
with this Act and the regulations to the extent the court considers
reasonable in the circumstances;




(e)

refuse to grant an extension or other relief.






False or misleading reports relating to an initiative petition




58

(1)


In addition to the penalty referred to in section 162, if a proponent
of an initiative petition is convicted under that section in relation
to a report under this Part relating to the initiative petition, that
initiative petition fails.




(2)

Subsection (1) applies as follows:




(a)

if no appeal of the conviction is made, at the end of the period for
making such an appeal;




(b)

if the conviction is upheld on its final determination on appeal, at
the time of that determination.




(3)

Subsection (1) does not prevent the government from introducing into
the Legislative Assembly the draft Bill that was the subject of the
initiative petition.




Part 5 — Initiative Vote Financing



Division 1 — Authorized Participants and Financial Agents





Authorized participants must have financial agent




59

(1)


The authorized participants for an initiative vote are




(a)

the proponents of the initiative vote, being




(i)

the proponent of the petition, if this individual has a financial
agent under section 61 for the initiative vote, and




(ii)

the individuals and organizations for whom a financial agent has been
designated under section 62, and




(b)

the opponents of the initiative vote, being the individuals and
organizations for whom a financial agent has been designated under
section 63.




(2)

An authorized participant may only accept initiative vote
contributions and incur initiative vote expenses through the financial
agent for the authorized participant.




(3)

Section 29 (3) applies in relation to the qualifications of a
financial agent for an authorized participant for an initiative vote.






Notice to proponent and opponents for initiative petition




60

(1)


In addition to the notice required under section 14 (2), at least 90
days before general voting day for an initiative vote the chief
electoral officer must give notice of the vote to the proponent and
opponents for the initiative petition to which the vote relates.




(2)

Notice under subsection (1) must advise the proponent and opponents
for the initiative petition that they must act under section 61
or 63, as applicable, if they wish to be an authorized participant for
the initiative vote.






Financial agent for petition proponent




61

(1)


If the proponent for the initiative petition intends to be a proponent
for the initiative vote, the proponent must have a financial agent.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1), section 30 applies and, within 30
days after the notice is published in the Gazette under section 14
(2), the proponent of the petition must deliver to the chief electoral
officer




(a)

a statement that the proponent is acting as the proponent's own
financial agent for the initiative vote, or




(b)

if the proponent is not acting as the proponent's own financial agent,
a copy of the appointment and the consent and statement referred to in
section 30 (2) (b).






Financial agents for other proponents




62

(1)


An individual or organization who wishes to be a proponent under this
section for an initiative vote must apply to the chief electoral
officer within 30 days after the day on which notice of the vote is
published in the Gazette and, for these purposes, section 31 applies.




(2)

For certainty, the financial agent of a proponent under
section 61 may be proposed as the financial agent for an
applicant under this section.




(3)

The chief electoral officer must designate financial agents for
proponents and establish proponent groups as soon as possible after
the end of the period for applying under subsection (1) and, for
these purposes, sections 32 and 33 apply.






Financial agents for opponents




63

(1)


An individual or organization who wishes to be an opponent of an
initiative vote must apply to the chief electoral officer within 30
days after the day on which notice of the vote is published in the
Gazette under section 14 (2) and, for these purposes, section 31
applies.




(2)

The chief electoral officer must designate financial agents for
opponents and establish opponent groups as soon as possible after the
end of the period for applying under subsection (1) and, for
these purposes, sections 32 and 33 apply.






Obligations and authority of financial agents and assistant financial
agents




64

(1)


Section 34 (1), as it applies in relation to initiative petition
contributions, initiative petition expenses and other initiative
petition matters, applies to initiative vote contributions, initiative
vote expenses and other initiative vote matters.




(2)

A financial agent is not personally liable for any liability of an
authorized participant for whom the financial agent is acting unless
the liability is personally guaranteed by the financial agent.




(3)

A financial agent may authorize one or more individuals to accept
initiative vote contributions and incur initiative vote expenses on
behalf of the financial agent and, for these purposes, section 35
applies.




Division 2 — Initiative Vote Contributions and Expenses





Initiative vote contributions




65

(1)


Subject to this Part, an initiative vote contribution is an amount of
money or the value of any property or services provided without
compensation by way of donation, advance, deposit, discount or
otherwise to an authorized participant in relation to an initiative
vote.




(2)

Sections 36, 37 and 38, as they apply in relation to initiative
petition contributions, apply in relation to initiative vote
contributions.






Initiative vote expenses




66

(1)


Subject to this Part, an initiative vote expense is the value of
property or services used during an initiative vote period to promote
or oppose, directly or indirectly, an initiative in relation to an
initiative vote.




(2)

Section 39, as it applies in relation to initiative petition expenses,
applies in relation to initiative vote expenses.






General valuation rules




67


Section 40 applies for the purpose of determining the value of an
initiative vote contribution or initiative vote expense unless
otherwise expressly provided.




Division 3 — Making and Accepting Initiative Vote Contributions





Restrictions on making and accepting initiative vote contributions




68

(1)


In relation to the making of initiative vote contributions,
section 41, as it applies to initiative petition contributions,
applies to initiative vote contributions.




(2)

In relation to the accepting of initiative vote contributions,
section 42, as it applies to initiative petition contributions,
applies to initiative vote contributions.






Limits on anonymous contributions




69

(1)


A financial agent must not accept, in relation to an initiative vote,
more than the applicable amount under section 188 (1) of the

Election Act

in permitted anonymous contributions under section 68 (2) of this Act.




(2)

A financial agent must not accept an anonymous initiative vote
contribution if this will exceed the limit under subsection (1).






Prohibited contributions must be returned




70


Section 44, as it applies in relation to initiative petition
contributions, applies in relation to initiative vote contributions,
except that the period for returning or otherwise dealing with an
initiative vote contribution subject to that section is 30 days
after the financial agent becomes aware of the contravention.






Financial agent must record each initiative vote contribution




71


For the purposes of complying with the reporting requirements of this
Part, section 45, as it applies in relation to initiative
petition contributions and financing, applies to initiative vote
contributions and financing.




Division 4 — Initiative Vote Expenses





Restrictions on who may incur initiative vote expenses




72

(1)


Subject to section 93, an individual or organization other than an
authorized participant must not incur initiative vote expenses.




(2)

Section 46, as it applies in relation to initiative petition expenses,
applies in relation to initiative vote expenses.






Initiative vote expenses in excess of limit prohibited




73

(1)


As applicable,




(a)

the proponent must not incur an initiative vote expense if incurring
the expense will result in the initiative vote expenses of the
proponent exceeding the expenses limit determined under section 74 (2)
(a),




(b)

a member of a proponent group must not incur an initiative vote
expense if incurring the expense will result in the initiative vote
expenses for the proponent group exceeding the expenses limit
determined for that proponent group under section 74 (2) (b), and




(c)

a member of an opponent group must not incur an initiative vote
expense if incurring the expense will result in the initiative vote
expenses for the opponent group exceeding the expenses limit
determined for that opponent group under section 74 (2) (c).




(2)

Section 47 (2), as it applies in relation to initiative petition
expenses, applies in relation to initiative vote expenses that are not
to be included for the purpose of determining whether an authorized
participant has complied with the applicable expenses limit.




(3)

An initiative vote expense that is not included for the purpose of
calculating whether there has been compliance with a limit under this
Part remains an initiative vote expense and is subject to all other
provisions of this Act.






Initiative vote expenses limit




74

(1)


The value of initiative vote expenses incurred by all the proponents
or all the opponents of the initiative vote during an initiative vote
period must not exceed the limit calculated by multiplying $1.52 and
the number of registered voters for all electoral districts in British
Columbia at the start of the initiative vote period.




(2)

The chief electoral officer must determine the expenses limit for the
proponent of the initiative petition and each proponent group and
opponent group as follows:




(a)

if the proponent of the initiative petition is a proponent of the
initiative vote under section 61, the expenses limit for that
proponent is




(i)

50% of the limit calculated under subsection (1) if there are other
proponents for the initiative vote, or




(ii)

100% of the limit calculated under subsection (1) if there are no
other proponents for the initiative vote;




(b)

in the case of proponent groups, the limit calculated under subsection
(1) minus any amount allocated to the proponent for the initiative
petition under paragraph (a) (i) is to be allocated to the groups in
the same proportion as the number of members in the group bears to the
total number of members in all of the proponent groups;




(c)

in the case of opponent groups, the limit calculated under subsection
(1) is to be allocated to the groups in the same proportion as the
number of members in the group bears to the total number of members in
all of the opponent groups.




(3)

The chief electoral officer must




(a)

have notice of the amount calculated under subsection (1) published in
the Gazette, and




(b)

give notice of the applicable expenses limit to the financial agents
for the authorized participants.




(4)

The chief electoral officer must establish the applicable amounts for
the initiative vote by




(a)

determining the ratio between the consumer price index at the time
this section comes into force and the consumer price index at the time
the determination is made, and




(b)

applying the ratio to adjust the amount under subsection (1).




(5)

For the purpose of making an adjustment under this section, the chief
electoral officer has the discretion to determine whether to use a
consumer price index prepared by the director under the

Statistics Act

(British Columbia) or published by Statistics Canada under the

Statistics Act

(Canada) and to determine which consumer price index is applicable for
a particular time.




Division 5 — Reporting





Reporting of information regarding initiative vote contributions




75

(1)


Where this Act requires that initiative vote contributions be
disclosed in a report, the report must include the equivalent
information in relation to initiative vote contributions as required
under section 49 in relation to initiative petition
contributions.




(2)

On request by the chief electoral officer, a contributor must file
with the chief electoral officer a solemn declaration that the
contributor has not contravened this Act or the regulations.






Initiative vote financing report




76

(1)


Within 90 days after the end of the initiative vote period, the
financial agent of each authorized participant must file with the
chief electoral officer on behalf of the authorized participant for
whom the financial agent is acting a financing report in accordance
with this section.




(2)

A financing report must include the equivalent information in relation
to initiative vote financing as required under section 50 (2) in
relation to initiative petition financing.




(3)

Section 50 (3) to (6), as it applies to a report under that section,
applies to a report under this section, except that the period for
filing a supplementary report is 30 days after the financial agent or
authorized participant becomes aware of the change, incompleteness or
inaccuracy for which the supplementary report is required.






Publication of financing summary




77


As soon as practicable after a financing report under section 76 (1)
is received, the chief electoral officer must publish a report
including the following:




(a)

the name of the authorized participant on whose behalf the financing
report is filed;




(b)

an identification of the relevant initiative vote;




(c)

a summary of the information included in the financing report;




(d)

a statement of the applicable expenses limit;




(e)

a statement as to whether the authorized participant complied with the
applicable expenses limit.




Division 6 — Penalties for Failure to Comply





Publication of failure to comply




78

(1)


The chief electoral officer must have notice of the following
published in the Gazette:




(a)

the name of an authorized participant for whom an initiative vote
financing report is not filed in accordance with section 76;




(b)

the name of an authorized participant for whom a required initiative
vote financing report is not filed in accordance with section 81;




(c)

the name of an authorized participant who exceeds the applicable
expenses limit;




(d)

the name of an authorized participant in relation to whom there was a
conviction under section 162 in relation to an initiative vote
financing report.




(2)

Publication under subsection (1) must take place as soon as possible
after the chief electoral officer becomes aware of the applicable
circumstances referred to in that subsection.






Effect of incurring expenses over limit




79

(1)


Unless relief is granted by a court under section 80, the following
penalties apply if an authorized participant exceeds the applicable
expenses limit:




(a)

in the case of an expenses limit for a proponent or proponent group,




(i)

the initiative vote fails, and




(ii)

the proponent must pay, or the proponents who are members of the
proponent group are jointly and separately liable to pay, to the chief
electoral officer a penalty of double the amount by which the expenses
exceed the limit;




(b)

if the total initiative vote expenses of an opponent group exceed the
expenses limit for that opponent group, the members of the opponent
group are jointly and separately liable to pay to the chief electoral
officer a penalty of 10 times the amount by which the expenses exceed
the limit.




(2)

Subsection (1) (a) does not prevent the government from introducing
into the Legislative Assembly the draft Bill that was the subject of
the initiative vote.




(3)

The penalties referred to in subsection (1) are effective as follows:




(a)

if no application under section 80 is made in respect of an authorized
participant subject to the penalty, at the end of the period for
making such an application;




(b)

if, on the final determination of an application under section 80, the
court refuses to grant relief from the penalty, at the time of that
determination.




(4)

In all cases, until the applicable penalty under subsection (1) is
paid, an authorized participant who exceeds the initiative vote
expenses limit is not eligible




(a)

to apply for the issuance of a petition under section 3,




(b)

to become an authorized participant for an initiative petition or an
initiative vote, or




(c)

to act as a financial agent in relation to an initiative petition or
an initiative vote.




(5)

A penalty received by the chief electoral officer under this section
must be paid into the consolidated revenue fund.






Court order for relief from expenses limit




80

(1)


An authorized participant may apply to the Supreme Court for relief
from section 79 for failing to comply with an expenses limit and,
for these purposes, section 54 applies subject to this section.




(2)

An application may be made only within 120 days after the end of the
initiative vote period or, if the failure to comply is disclosed by a
supplementary report under section 76 (3), within 30 days after the
day on which the supplementary report is filed.






Late filing of required reports




81

(1)


This section applies if a financial agent fails to file a report under
Division 5 of this Part with the chief electoral officer within the
time period established by that Division or by a court under
section 83.




(2)

The chief electoral officer must give notice to the authorized
participant for whom the report was to be filed that, if the report is
not filed within the late filing period permitted by this section, the
authorized participant will be subject to the penalties provided in
this Division unless an extension is granted by a court under
section 83.




(3)

On payment to the chief electoral officer of a late filing fee of the
applicable amount under section 220 (5) (b) of the

Election Act

, the report may be filed within 30 days after the end of the
time period for filing established by Division 5 of this Part or
before a later date permitted by a court under section 83 of this
Act.






Failure to file initiative vote financing report




82

(1)


Unless relief is granted by a court on an application under section 83
commenced before the end of the late filing period under section 81
(3), the following penalties apply if an initiative vote financing
report is not filed with the chief electoral officer before the end of
that period:




(a)

in the case of a report for the proponent or a proponent group,




(i)

the initiative vote fails, and




(ii)

the proponent must pay, or the proponents who are members of the
proponent group are jointly and separately liable to pay, a penalty of
the applicable amount under section 220 (5) (a) of the

Election Act

to the chief electoral officer for each day after the last day on
which it may be filed under section 81 of this Act up to the date on
which it is in fact filed;




(b)

in the case of a report for an opponent group, the opponents who are
members of the opponent group are jointly and separately liable to pay
a penalty of the applicable amount under section 220 (5) (b) of the

Election Act

to the chief electoral officer for each day after the last day on
which it may be filed under section 81 of this Act up to the date
on which it is in fact filed.




(2)

Subsection (1) (a) does not prevent the government from introducing
into the Legislative Assembly the draft Bill that was the subject of
the initiative vote that failed because of the application of that
subsection.




(3)

The penalties referred to in subsection (1) are effective as follows:




(a)

if no application under section 83 is made in respect of an authorized
participant subject to the penalty, at the end of the period for
making such an application;




(b)

if, on the final determination of an application under
section 83, the court refuses to grant relief from the penalty,
at the time of that determination.




(4)

In all cases, until the applicable penalty under subsection (1) is
paid and the report is filed, an authorized participant who fails to
file an initiative vote financing report is not eligible




(a)

to apply for the issuance of a petition under section 3,




(b)

to become an authorized participant for an initiative petition or an
initiative vote, or




(c)

to act as a financial agent in relation to an initiative petition or
an initiative vote.




(5)

A penalty received by the chief electoral officer under this section
must be paid into the consolidated revenue fund.






Court order for relief from filing obligations




83

(1)


An authorized participant may apply to the Supreme Court in accordance
with this section for relief from an obligation to file an initiative
vote financing report in accordance with this Act and, for these
purposes, section 57 applies subject to this section.




(2)

An application may be made only within 120 days after the end of the
initiative vote period or, if the failure to comply is disclosed by a
supplementary report under section 76 (3), within 30 days after the
day on which the supplementary report is filed.






False or misleading reports relating to an initiative vote




84

(1)


In addition to the penalty referred to in section 162, if a
proponent of an initiative vote is convicted under that section in
relation to a report under this Part relating to the initiative vote,
that initiative vote fails.




(2)

Subsection (1) applies as follows:




(a)

if no appeal of the conviction is made, at the end of the period for
making such an appeal;




(b)

if the conviction is upheld on its final determination on appeal, at
the time of that final determination.




(3)

Subsection (1) does not prevent the government from introducing into
the Legislative Assembly the draft Bill that was the subject of the
initiative vote.




Part 6 — Initiative Communications



Division 1 — General





Initiative advertising and opinion surveys




85

(1)


For the purposes of this Act, initiative advertising is advertising
used




(a)

during an initiative petition period to promote or oppose, directly or
indirectly, the initiative petition or draft Bill, or




(b)

during an initiative vote period to promote or oppose, directly or
indirectly, the initiative.




(2)

For the purposes of this Act, an initiative opinion survey is an
opinion survey respecting an initiative petition, draft Bill or
initiative vote, including a matter publicly discussed in relation to
the initiative petition, draft Bill or initiative vote.






Sponsorship of initiative advertising




86

(1)


For the purposes of this Part, the sponsor of initiative advertising
or an initiative opinion survey is whichever of the following is
applicable:




(a)

the individual or organization who pays for the initiative advertising
or initiative opinion survey to be conducted;




(b)

if the services of conducting the advertising or survey are provided
without charge as a contribution, the individual or organization to
whom the services are provided as a contribution;




(c)

if the individual or organization who is the sponsor within the
meaning of paragraph (a) or (b) is acting on behalf of another
individual or organization, the other individual or organization.




(2)

Where this Part requires the inclusion of a mailing address or
telephone number at which a sponsor can be contacted,




(a)

any mailing address given must be within British Columbia,




(b)

any telephone number given must be that of a place within British
Columbia, and




(c)

the sponsor must make available an individual to be responsible for
answering questions from the public that are directed to the address
or telephone number.




(3)

Where this Part requires a sponsor to be identified, for a numbered
corporation or an unincorporated organization the identification must
include both




(a)

the name of the organization, and




(b)

the name of an individual director or, if there are no individual
directors, an individual who is a principal officer or a principal
member of the organization.




(4)

On request of the chief electoral officer,




(a)

an individual identified as a sponsor, or




(b)

an individual identified as a director, principal officer or principal
member of an organization identified as a sponsor


must file with the chief electoral officer a solemn declaration that
the identified sponsor is in fact the sponsor and that the sponsor has
not contravened this Part.






No indirect sponsorship of initiative advertising




87


An individual or organization must not sponsor initiative advertising
with the property of any other individual or organization or
indirectly through any other individual or organization.






Initiative advertising must identify sponsor




88


An individual or organization must not sponsor or conduct any
initiative advertising unless the advertising




(a)

identifies the name of the sponsor or, in the case of an authorized
participant, the name of the financial agent,




(b)

if applicable, indicates that the sponsor is a registered sponsor
under this Act,




(c)

indicates that it was authorized by the identified sponsor or
financial agent, and




(d)

gives a telephone number or mailing address at which the sponsor or
financial agent may be contacted regarding the advertising.






Restriction on rates charged for initiative advertising




89


An individual or organization must not charge a rate for initiative
advertising in a periodical publication or on radio or television that
exceeds the lowest rate charged by the individual or organization for
equivalent advertising in the same medium during the same initiative
petition period or initiative vote period.






Prohibition against certain initiative advertising on general voting
day




90

(1)


On general voting day for an initiative vote, an individual or
organization must not conduct initiative advertising by publishing it
in a newspaper or magazine or on radio or television.




(2)

An individual or organization must not sponsor or agree to sponsor
initiative advertising that is or is to be conducted on general voting
day by a means referred to in subsection (1), whether the publication
is done within British Columbia or outside British Columbia.






Restrictions on initiative campaigning near voting places




91

(1)


During an initiative vote period, an individual or organization must
not post, display or disseminate initiative advertising in or within
100 metres of the building where the office of the district
electoral officer is located.




(2)

While advance voting or general voting for an initiative vote is being
conducted at a voting place, an individual or organization must not do
any of the following in or within 100 metres of the building
where the voting is being conducted:




(a)

post, display or disseminate initiative advertising;




(b)

canvass or solicit votes or otherwise attempt to influence how a voter
votes;




(c)

carry, wear or supply a flag, badge or other thing indicating that the
individual using it is a supporter of a particular response to an
initiative;




(d)

post, display, disseminate or openly leave a representation of a
ballot marked for a particular response to an initiative.




(3)

If subsection (1) or (2) is being contravened by the posting or
display of materials, the district electoral officer or another
election official authorized by the district electoral officer may
enter on the property where the materials are located and remove or
cover or otherwise obscure them from view.




(4)

While advance voting or general voting is being conducted at a voting
place for an initiative vote, an individual or organization must not
conduct initiative advertising by means of a public address system or
loudspeaker that is within hearing distance of the voting place.






Requirements for publication of initiative opinion surveys




92

(1)


During an initiative petition period or an initiative vote period, an
individual or organization who first publishes in British Columbia the
results of an initiative opinion survey must publish the following
information with the results of the survey:




(a)

the name of the sponsor of the survey;




(b)

the name of the individual or organization who conducted the survey;




(c)

the dates when the survey was conducted;




(d)

to the extent that the information is applicable to the survey, the
number of individuals contacted for the survey and the percentage of
those who refused to take part in the survey;




(e)

to the extent that the information is applicable to the survey, the
margin of error for the survey;




(f)

the exact wording of each question in the survey for which data are
reported;




(g)

for each question for which the margin of error is greater than that
reported under paragraph (e), the margin of error for the question;




(h)

a mailing address or telephone number, indicating it as the address or
telephone number at which the sponsor can be contacted to obtain a
written report regarding the survey in accordance with subsection (3).




(2)

If the results of an initiative opinion survey are to be published
without the authorization of the sponsor, at least 24 hours before
first publication, the individual or organization who publishes the
results must notify the sponsor so that the report required under
subsection (3) can be prepared.




(3)

From the time of the first publication of an initiative opinion survey
until the end of the initiative petition period or initiative vote
period, as applicable, whether the publication is done within British
Columbia or outside British Columbia, the sponsor must provide on
request a copy of a written report on the results of the survey,
published as referred to in subsection (1), including the following
information to the extent that the information is applicable to the
survey:




(a)

the name and address of the sponsor of the survey;




(b)

the name and address of the individual or organization who conducted
the survey;




(c)

the dates when the survey was conducted;




(d)

the exact wording of each question for which data are reported;




(e)

the method used to collect the information in the survey;




(f)

the population from which the sample in the survey was drawn;




(g)

the size of the initial sample and the number of individuals contacted
for the survey;




(h)

the number and percentage of individuals contacted who answered the
survey;




(i)

the number and percentage of individuals contacted who refused to take
part in the survey;




(j)

the method used to recalculate percentages when those who expressed no
opinion or those who did not respond are omitted from the survey;




(k)

the times of any interviews;




(l)

the sampling method;




(m)

the number of ineligible individuals contacted;




(n)

any weighting factors or normalization procedures used;




(o)

the margin of error for the survey.




(4)

A fee may be charged for a report provided under subsection (3), but
the fee must be based on the reasonable costs of reproducing the
original report prepared for the purposes of that subsection.




Division 2 — Initiative Advertising Limits





Advertising limits




93

(1)


An authorized participant for an initiative petition may incur
initiative advertising as an initiative petition expense and an
authorized participant for an initiative vote may incur initiative
advertising as an initiative vote expense, subject to the applicable
expenses limit.




(2)

Other than initiative advertising referred to in subsection (1), an
individual or organization must not sponsor initiative advertising
during an initiative petition period or an initiative vote period




(a)

such that the total value of that initiative advertising is greater
than $5 000 or a higher amount established by regulation, or




(b)

in combination with one or more individuals or organizations, or both,
such that the total value of the initiative advertising sponsored by
those individuals and organizations during that period is greater than
$5 000 or a higher amount established by regulation.




(3)

As an exception to subsection (2), the value of initiative advertising
that is conducted by sending a document directly to the members,
employees or shareholders of the sponsoring individual or organization
is not to be included for the purposes of determining whether the
individual or organization has complied with that subsection.




(4)

An individual or organization must not conduct initiative advertising
if, by this, the sponsor would contravene subsection (2).






Penalties for exceeding initiative advertising limit




94

(1)


Unless relief is granted by a court under section 95, if a sponsor
exceeds an initiative advertising limit, the sponsor




(a)

is deregistered as a sponsor under Division 3 of this Part, and




(b)

must pay to the chief electoral officer a penalty of 10 times the
amount by which the value of the initiative advertising sponsored by
the sponsor exceeds the limit.




(2)

In the case of a sponsor that is an unincorporated organization, the
members of the organization are jointly and separately liable to pay
the penalty under subsection (1).




(3)

A penalty referred to in subsection (1) is effective as follows:




(a)

if no application under section 95 is made in respect of the sponsor,
at the end of the period for making such an application;




(b)

if, on the final determination of an application under
section 95, the court refuses to grant relief from the penalty,
at the time of that determination.






Court order for relief from advertising limit




95

(1)


A sponsor may apply to the Supreme Court in accordance with this
section for relief from section 94.




(2)

An application may be made only within 58 days after the end of the
initiative petition period or initiative vote period, as applicable,
in relation to which the advertising limit was exceeded.




(3)

Within 7 days after it is filed, the petition commencing an
application must be served on the chief electoral officer.




(4)

The sponsor and the chief electoral officer are parties to the
application.




(5)

On the hearing of an application, the court may




(a)

grant relief if the court considers that, in relation to the
non-compliance, the sponsor acted in good faith, or




(b)

refuse to grant relief.




Division 3 — Registration of Sponsors





Initiative advertising sponsors must be registered




96

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), an individual or organization who is not
registered under this Division must not sponsor initiative
advertising.




(2)

An authorized participant is not required to be registered to sponsor
initiative advertising in relation to the initiative petition or
initiative vote for which the individual or organization is an
authorized participant.






Registration with chief electoral officer




97

(1)


An individual or organization who wishes to become a registered
sponsor in relation to an initiative petition or an initiative vote
must file an application in accordance with this section with the
chief electoral officer.




(2)

An application must include the following:




(a)

the full name of the applicant and, in the case of an applicant
organization that has a different usual name, this usual name;




(b)

the full address of the applicant;




(c)

in the case of an applicant organization, the names of the principal
officers of the organization or, if there are no principal officers,
of the principal members of the organization;




(d)

an address at which notices and communications under this Act and
other communications will be accepted as served on or otherwise
delivered to the individual or organization;




(e)

a telephone number at which the applicant can be contacted;




(f)

identification of the initiative petition or initiative vote in
relation to which the applicant wishes to be registered as a sponsor;




(g)

any other information required by regulation to be included.




(3)

An application must




(a)

be signed, as applicable, by the individual applicant or, in the case
of an applicant organization, by 2 principal officers of the
organization or, if there are no principal officers, by 2 principal
members of the organization, and




(b)

be accompanied by a signed statement of an individual who signed the
application under paragraph (a) that the applicant is not prohibited
from being registered by section 99.




(4)

The chief electoral officer may require applications to be in a
specified form.




(5)

As soon as practicable after receiving an application, if satisfied
that the requirements of this section are met by an applicant, the
chief electoral officer must register the applicant as a registered
sponsor in the register maintained by the chief electoral officer for
this purpose.




(6)

If there is any change in the information referred to in subsection
(2) for a registered sponsor, the sponsor must file with the chief
electoral officer written notice of the change within 15 days after it
occurs.




(7)

A notice or other communication that is required or authorized under
this Act to be given to a sponsor is deemed to have been given if it
is delivered to the applicable address filed under this section with
the chief electoral officer.






Obligations of registered sponsor




98

(1)


The identification of a registered sponsor referred to in
section 88 must be a name filed by the sponsor under section 97
with the chief electoral officer.




(2)

An individual or organization who is registered or required to be
registered as a sponsor must maintain records of the following
information in respect of contributions received by the sponsor:




(a)

in the case of anonymous contributions, the date on which the
contributions were received, the total amount received on each date
and, if applicable, the event at which they were received;




(b)

in other cases, the information referred to in section 45 (1) (a) to
(e), with the class of contributor recorded in accordance with section
101.






Limit on registration




99


An individual or organization who is subject to a penalty under this
Part or for whom a required report under this Part is not filed is not
entitled to be registered as a sponsor until all such outstanding
reports are filed and all such outstanding penalties are paid.




Division 4 — Disclosure of Independent Initiative Advertising





Independent sponsors must file disclosure reports




100

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), if an individual or organization sponsors,
during an initiative petition period or an initiative vote period,
initiative advertising that has a total value of $500 or a higher
amount established by regulation, the sponsor must file with the chief
electoral officer an initiative advertising disclosure report in
accordance with this section and section 101.




(2)

The report under subsection (1) must be filed as follows:




(a)

in the case of initiative advertising during an initiative petition
period, within 28 days after the end of the initiative petition
period;




(b)

in the case of initiative advertising during an initiative vote
period, within 90 days after the end of the initiative vote period.




(3)

An authorized participant for the initiative petition or initiative
vote in relation to which the advertising was sponsored is not
required to file a report under this section.




(4)

A sponsor must file a supplementary report with the chief electoral
officer if any of the information required to be disclosed in an
initiative advertising disclosure report changes or if the sponsor
becomes aware that the report does not accurately and completely
disclose that information.




(5)

A supplementary report under subsection (4) must be filed as follows:




(a)

in the case of a report in relation to initiative advertising during
an initiative petition period, within the equivalent period under
section 50 (3) after the sponsor becomes aware of the facts in
relation to which the report is required;




(b)

in the case of a report in relation to initiative advertising during
an initiative vote period, within the equivalent period under section
76 (3) after the sponsor becomes aware of the facts in relation to
which the report is required.






Contents of disclosure report




101

(1)


An initiative advertising disclosure report must be in the form
prescribed by regulation and must include the following information:




(a)

the value of the initiative advertising sponsored by the sponsor,
reported by class as required by regulation;




(b)

the amount of the contributions accepted by the sponsor during the
period,




(i)

beginning 6 months before the initiative petition was issued and
ending at the end of the initiative petition period, in the case of
advertising in relation to an initiative petition, and




(ii)

beginning 6 months before general voting day for the initiative vote
and ending at the end of the initiative vote period, in the case of
advertising in relation to an initiative vote,


reported in accordance with subsections (2) to (4);




(c)

any amount of the sponsor's assets, other than assets received by way
of contribution reported under paragraph (b), that was used to pay for
the initiative advertising sponsored by the sponsor;




(d)

any other information required by regulation to be included.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1) (b), amounts accepted from
contributors must be reported separately for each of the following
classes of contributor:




(a)

individuals;




(b)

corporations;




(c)

unincorporated organizations engaged in business or commercial
activity;




(d)

trade unions;




(e)

non-profit organizations;




(f)

other identifiable contributors;




(g)

anonymous contributors.




(3)

If the records of the sponsor indicate that, during the period for
which contributions are required to be reported, a contributor made
one or more contributions of money that, in total, have a value of
more than $250 or a higher amount established by regulation, the
report under this section must include the following:




(a)

the full name of the individual;




(b)

the class of the contributor as referred to in subsection (2);




(c)

if the contributor is a numbered corporation or an unincorporated
organization, the full names and addresses of at least 2 individuals




(i)

who are directors of the organization, or




(ii)

if there are no individual directors, who are principal officers or
principal members of the organization;




(d)

the value of each contribution and the date on which it was made.




(4)

For anonymous contributions, the report under this section must
include the dates on which the contributions were received, the
amounts received on each date and, if applicable, the events at which
they were received.




(5)

A report under this section must be accompanied by a signed
declaration of the individual sponsor or, in the case of an
organization, by a principal officer of the organization or, if there
are no principal officers, by a principal member of the organization,
as to the accuracy of the report.




(6)

As a limit on the reporting obligations under this section, the
obligation of a sponsor in relation to contributions accepted before
the initiative petition period or initiative vote period to which the
report relates is that reasonable effort must be made to report the
information required under this section.






Late filing of reports




102


If a sponsor fails to file a report under section 100 with the chief
electoral officer within the time period established by that section
or by a court under section 104, on payment to the chief electoral
officer of a late filing fee equivalent to the applicable amount under
section 220 (5) (b) of the

Election Act

, the report may be filed within 30 days after the end of the
time period under section 100 or before a later date permitted by a
court under section 104.






Failure to file reports




103

(1)


Unless relief is granted by a court on an application under
section 104 commenced before the end of the late filing period
under section 102, if an initiative advertising disclosure report is
not filed with the chief electoral officer before the end of that
period, the sponsor




(a)

is deregistered as a sponsor under Division 3 of this Part, and




(b)

must pay to the chief electoral officer a penalty equivalent to the
applicable amount under section 220 (5) (b) of the

Election Act

for each day after the last day on which it may be filed under
section 102 up to the date on which it is in fact filed.




(2)

In the case of a sponsor that is an unincorporated organization, the
members of the organization are jointly and separately liable to pay
the penalty under subsection (1) (b).




(3)

The penalties referred to in subsection (1) are effective as follows:




(a)

if no application under section 104 is made in respect of the sponsor,
at the end of the period for making such an application;




(b)

if, on the final determination of an application under
section 104, the court refuses to grant relief from the penalty,
at the time of that determination.






Court order for relief from filing obligations




104

(1)


A sponsor subject to section 102 or 103 may apply to the Supreme Court
in accordance with this section for relief from an obligation to file
an initiative advertising disclosure report or from a penalty in
relation to the filing of such a report.




(2)

An application may be made only,




(a)

in the case of a report in relation to an initiative petition, within
the applicable period under section 57 (2), or




(b)

in the case of a report in relation to an initiative vote, within the
applicable period under section 83 (2).




(3)

Within 7 days after it is filed, the petition commencing an
application must be served on the chief electoral officer.




(4)

The applicant and the chief electoral officer are parties to the
application.




(5)

On the hearing of an application, the court may do the following:




(a)

relieve the sponsor from the obligation to file the report, or from
specified obligations in relation to the report, if the court
considers that, in relation to the non-compliance, the sponsor acted
in good faith;




(b)

grant an extension of the time for filing the report without payment
of a late filing fee under section 102 if




(i)

the application is commenced before the end of the time for filing
without penalty, and




(ii)

the court considers that, in relation to the non-compliance, the
sponsor acted in good faith;




(c)

grant an extension of the time for filing the report, subject to
payment of the late filing fee under section 102, if the court
considers that, in relation to the non-compliance, the sponsor acted
in good faith;




(d)

make any order the court considers appropriate to secure compliance
with this Act and the regulations to the extent the court considers
reasonable in the circumstances;




(e)

refuse to grant an extension or other relief.






Obligation to maintain records




105


An individual or organization who is or has been a sponsor of
initiative advertising must




(a)

ensure that the records required for the purposes of this Part are
maintained in British Columbia, and




(b)

retain those records for at least 5 years, or a longer period
specified by the chief electoral officer, from the date of filing of a
report required under this Division in relation to those records.






Publication of initiative advertising summary




106


As soon as practicable after an initiative advertising disclosure
report under this Division is received, the chief electoral officer
must publish a report including the following:




(a)

the name of the sponsor for whom it is filed;




(b)

an identification of the relevant initiative petition or initiative
vote;




(c)

a summary of the information included in the report.




Part 7 — Recall Petition Financing



Division 1 — Financial Agent





Authorized participants and their financial agents




107

(1)


Effective on the date that the chief electoral officer notifies the
proponent and the affected Member under section 20 (1) (a), those
individuals become authorized participants for the recall petition
that is to be issued.




(2)

An authorized participant may only accept recall petition
contributions and incur recall petition expenses through the
authorized participant's financial agent.




(3)

Subsection (2) does not apply with respect to the personal recall
expenses of an authorized participant.




(4)

For the purposes of this Part, a reference to an authorized
participant includes an individual who becomes an authorized
participant or was an authorized participant.






Appointment of financial agent




108

(1)


For the purposes of this Part, an authorized participant may act as
the authorized participant's own financial agent or may appoint
another individual as financial agent.




(2)

The following are disqualified from acting as financial agent:




(a)

an election official, a voter registration official or an individual
who is otherwise a member of the staff of the chief electoral officer;




(b)

an individual who does not have full capacity to enter into contracts;




(c)

an individual who is disqualified under section 128 or 131;




(d)

an individual who, at any time within the previous 7 years, has been
convicted of an offence under this Act or the

Election Act

.




(3)

The appointment of a financial agent must be made in writing and must




(a)

include the name, mailing address and telephone number of the
individual appointed and the effective date of the appointment, and




(b)

be accompanied by




(i)

a signed consent of the individual appointed to act as financial
agent, and




(ii)

a signed statement of the individual appointed that the individual is
not disqualified from acting as a financial agent.




(4)

As soon as practicable, the following must be delivered to the chief
electoral officer:




(a)

a statement as to whether or not the proponent or Member is acting as
the proponent's or Member's own financial agent;




(b)

if the proponent or Member is not acting as the proponent's or
Member's own financial agent, a copy of the appointment and the
consent and statement referred to in subsection (3) (b);




(c)

an address to which notices under this Act may be delivered to the
financial agent or the authorized participant, as referred to in
section 166.




(5)

If there is any change in who is the financial agent for an authorized
participant, the authorized participant must, as soon as possible,
notify the chief electoral officer of that change and, for these
purposes, must deliver notice in accordance with subsection (4) (a) to
(c).






General obligations of financial agent




109

(1)


Without limiting the obligations of a financial agent of an authorized
participant under any other provision of this Act, a financial agent
must do the following:




(a)

ensure that all recall contributions, recall expenses and other income
and expenditures in relation to the recall petition are properly
recorded to allow compliance with the reporting requirements of this
Act;




(b)

ensure that all money received by or on behalf of the authorized
participant in relation to a recall petition is deposited in an
account in a savings institution and that all expenditures of the
authorized participant are paid from an account in a savings
institution;




(c)

ensure that all records required to be kept for the purposes of this
Act by the authorized participant are maintained in British Columbia;




(d)

ensure that all financial records and receipts of the authorized
participant in relation to this Act are retained for at least 5 years
from the date of filing of any report under this Act required in
relation to them;




(e)

make every reasonable effort to ensure that every expenditure greater
than the applicable amount under section 177 (2) (e) of the

Election Act

that is incurred by the authorized participant in relation to the
recall petition is documented by a statement setting out the
particulars of the expenditure.




(1.1)

For the purposes of subsection (1) (b), a financial agent must ensure
that a separate account is established for each authorized participant
for whom the financial agent is acting.




(2)

A financial agent or assistant financial agent is not personally
liable for any liability of the authorized participant for whom the
financial agent or assistant financial agent is acting unless the
liability is personally guaranteed by the financial agent or assistant
financial agent.






Assistant financial agent




110

(1)


A financial agent may authorize one or more individuals to accept
recall contributions and incur recall expenses on behalf of the
financial agent.




(2)

An individual who is authorized under subsection (1) to accept recall
contributions and incur recall expenses has, for those purposes, all
the powers, duties and protections of the financial agent.




(3)

As soon as practicable after an authorization under subsection (1) is
made, a copy of the authorization must be delivered to the chief
electoral officer.




Division 2 — Recall Contributions and Expenses





Recall contributions generally




111

(1)


Subject to this Part, a recall contribution is an amount of money or
the value of any property or services provided without compensation by
way of donation, advance, deposit, discount or otherwise to an
authorized participant in relation to a recall petition.




(2)

If property or services are provided to an authorized participant at
less than market value or acquired from an authorized participant at
greater than market value, the difference between the market value of
the property or services at the time provided and the amount charged
is a recall contribution.




(3)

The amount of any money, but not the value of any property or
services, provided in relation to a recall petition by an authorized
participant is a recall contribution.




(4)

The value of the following is not a recall contribution:




(a)

services provided by a volunteer;




(b)

property of a volunteer if the property is provided or used in
relation to the services of the individual as a volunteer;




(c)

property or services provided by an election official, a voter
registration official or any other member of the staff of the chief
electoral officer in that official capacity;




(d)

publishing, without charge, news, an editorial, an interview, a
column, a letter or a commentary in a genuine periodical publication
or a radio or television program;




(e)

broadcasting time provided, without charge, as part of a genuine
public affairs program;




(f)

producing, promoting or distributing a publication for no less than
its market value, if the publication was planned to be sold regardless
of the petition.






Loans and guarantees to authorized participant




112

(1)


A permissible loan, or a guarantee for a permissible loan, to an
authorized participant is not a recall contribution.




(2)

An authorized participant must not accept or use in relation to the
recall petition a loan other than a permissible loan.




(3)

A permissible loan, or a guarantee for a permissible loan, to an
authorized participant must be made only by a savings institution.




(4)

A savings institution must not make to an authorized participant a
loan other than a permissible loan.




(5)

An authorized participant must not accept a guarantee for a
permissible loan unless the guarantee is provided with
non-preferential treatment.




(6)

A savings institution must not make or accept a guarantee for a
permissible loan to an authorized participant unless the guarantee is
provided with non-preferential treatment.




(7)

Despite subsection (1) of this section, a permissible loan to an
authorized participant is a recall contribution if a savings
institution does not make commercially reasonable efforts to collect
or enforce the loan.






Debts owed by authorized participant




112.01

(1)


In this section,
"debt"
means a debt, other than a debt arising from a permissible loan, that
is owed by an authorized participant in relation to a recall expense.




(2)

A debt is a recall contribution if




(a)

the debt remains unpaid 6 months after becoming due and payable, and




(b)

the creditor does not make commercially reasonable efforts to collect
or recover the debt.




(3)

For certainty, nothing in this section affects the rights of a
creditor in relation to a debt that becomes a recall contribution
under this section.






Recall contributions through fundraising functions




113

(1)


Except as provided in this section or if received as anonymous
contributions under section 116 (2) (f), funds raised by a recall
fundraising function held by or on behalf of an authorized participant
are not recall contributions.




(2)

A person other than an eligible individual must not pay a charge per
individual for a fundraising function.




(2.01)

If a charge per individual for a fundraising function is greater than
$50, the payment of that charge is a recall contribution.




(2.02)

If an eligible individual pays for more than one charge per individual
for a fundraising function, the payment of those charges is a recall
contribution by the eligible individual.




(3)

If the amount paid for property or services offered for sale at a
recall fundraising function is greater than their market value, the
difference between the amount paid and the market value at the time it
is agreed to be paid is a recall contribution.




(4)

The value of property or services, or both, donated by an individual
for sale at a recall fundraising function is a recall contribution
unless the property or services or both, as applicable,




(a)

are used for sale at the recall fundraising function, and




(b)

have a total value that is not greater than the applicable amount
under section 182 (4) (b) of the

Election Act

.






Recall expenses




114

(1)


Subject to this Part, a recall expense is the value of property or
services used during a recall petition period to promote or oppose,
directly or indirectly, the recall of the Member who is the subject of
the recall petition.




(2)

A deficit incurred in holding a recall fundraising function during a
recall petition period is a recall expense.




(3)

The value of the following is not a recall expense:




(a)

property and services referred to in section 111 (4);




(b)

goods produced by an individual as a volunteer from the property of
the individual;




(c)

goods produced by an authorized participant from the property of the
authorized participant.




(4)

The following recall expenses incurred by an authorized participant,
if they are reasonable, are personal recall expenses of the authorized
participant:




(a)

payments for care of a child or other family member for whom the
authorized participant is normally directly responsible;




(b)

the cost of travelling to, within or from the electoral district;




(c)

the cost of lodging, meals and incidental charges while travelling to,
within or from the electoral district;




(d)

the cost of renting a temporary residence if it is necessary for the
recall petition;




(e)

recall expenses incurred as a result of any disability of the
authorized participant, including the cost of any individual required
to assist the authorized participant in performing the functions
necessary for supporting or opposing the recall petition;




(f)

any other recall expenses specified by regulation.




(5)

If an authorized participant is not acting as the authorized
participant's own financial agent, within 14 days after the end of the
recall petition period the authorized participant must provide to the
financial agent a report of the authorized participant's personal
recall expenses.




(6)

A report under subsection (5) must set out the details of the personal
recall expenses incurred by the authorized participant.






General valuation rules




115

(1)


The rules in this section apply for the purpose of determining the
value of a recall contribution or recall expense unless otherwise
expressly provided in this Part.




(2)

The value of any property or services is




(a)

the price paid for the property or services, or




(b)

the market value of the property or services, if no price is paid or
if the price paid is lower than the market value.




(3)

If the property is a capital asset, the value of the property is the
market value of using the property.




(4)

The value of free advertising space in a periodical publication and
free broadcasting time provided to an authorized participant for a
recall petition is nil if the space or time is made available on an
equitable basis to both authorized participants.




Division 2.1 — Specified Fundraising Functions





Specified fundraising function using private residence property




115.01

(1)


An organization or individual must not hold a specified fundraising
function that has a charge per individual of greater than $100 in or
on premises that are used as a private residence.




(2)

An authorized participant must not accept a recall contribution raised
at a specified fundraising function described in subsection (1).






Information respecting specified fundraising function




115.02

(1)


No later than 7 days before the date of a specified fundraising
function, the organization or individual who plans to hold the
specified fundraising function must provide the following information
to the chief electoral officer and, if there is a specific individual
on whose behalf the specified fundraising event is being held, to the
financial agent of that individual:




(a)

the name of every member of the Executive Council, parliamentary
secretary or leader of a major political party who is scheduled to
attend the specified fundraising function;




(b)

the amount of the charge per individual for the specified fundraising
function;




(c)

the date and time of the specified fundraising function;




(d)

if the specified fundraising function is held




(i)

in or on premises that are used as a private residence, the address of
the premises and the name of the person who usually uses the premises
as a private residence, and




(ii)

in or on premises other than premises that are used as a private
residence, the usual name of the premises;




(e)

the usual name of the organization or individual who is holding the
specified fundraising event;




(f)

if the specified fundraising event is being held on behalf of a
specific individual, the usual name of that individual.




(2)

No later than 14 days after the date of the specified fundraising
function, the organization or individual who held the fundraising
function must provide the following information to the chief electoral
officer and, if subsection (1) (f) applies, to the individual on whose
behalf the specified fundraising function was held or the financial
agent of that individual:




(a)

the name of every member of the Executive Council, parliamentary
secretary or leader of a major political party who attended the
specified fundraising function;




(b)

the number of charges per individual received for the specified
fundraising function;




(c)

the amount of recall contributions raised at the specified fundraising
function.




(3)

If subsection (1) (f) did not apply at the time that the information
under subsection (2) was provided to the chief electoral officer, the
organization or individual who held the fundraising function, as soon
as practicable after identifying the specific individual to whom the
recall contributions raised at the fundraising function are to be
provided, must provide the information required under subsection (2)
to the financial agent of the individual to whom those recall
contributions are to be provided.




(4)

The organization or individual who provides the information to the
chief electoral officer under subsections (1), (2) or (3) must, if the
organization or individual becomes aware that the information has
changed or is not accurate, provide updated information to the chief
electoral officer as soon as practicable.




(5)

The chief electoral officer must




(a)

publish, as soon as practicable, on an Elections BC authorized
internet site the information received under subsections (1), (2), (3)
and (4), other than the information described in subsection (1) (d)
(i), and




(b)

ensure the information continues to be published on an Elections BC
authorized internet site until one year after final voting day for the
next general election.




Division 3 — Making and Accepting Recall Contributions





Restrictions on making recall contributions




116

(1)


A person must not make a recall contribution unless the person is an
eligible individual.




(2)

An eligible individual must not do any of the following:




(a)

make a recall contribution to an authorized participant except by
making it to the financial agent or assistant financial agent;




(b)

make a recall contribution without disclosing to the financial agent
the information required to be recorded under section 120;




(c)

make a recall contribution of money in an amount greater than the
applicable amount under section 186 (1) (c) of the

Election Act

, except by means of




(i)

a cheque with the name of the contributor legibly shown on it and
drawn on an account in the contributor's name maintained in a savings
institution,




(ii)

a money order with the name of the contributor legibly shown on it and
signed by the contributor,




(iii)

a credit card in the name of the contributor, or




(iv)

an electronic transfer of funds from an account in the contributor's
name maintained in a savings institution;




(d)

make a recall contribution with the money, other property or services
of another;




(e)

make a recall contribution indirectly by giving money, other property
or services to an individual or organization




(i)

for that individual or organization to make as a recall contribution,
or




(ii)

as consideration for that individual or organization making a recall
contribution;




(f)

make an anonymous recall contribution unless the contribution




(i)

is provided in response to a general solicitation for funds at a
function held on behalf of or in relation to the affairs of the
authorized participant to whom the contribution is provided, and




(ii)

has a value of less than the applicable amount under section 186 (1)
(f) (ii) of the

Election Act

.




(3)

As exceptions to subsection (2) (d) and (e),




(a)

an eligible individual may make a recall contribution indirectly by
providing compensation to an individual who provides services that are
a recall contribution, in which case the eligible individual providing
the compensation is the contributor for the purposes of this Act, and




(b)

an individual may make a recall contribution with the money of another
individual, if that other individual is an eligible individual, but
must disclose to the individual required to record the contribution
under section 120 the full name and address of the eligible individual
whose money is being used.






Sponsorship contributions that become recall contributions




116.01

(1)


This section applies if an individual




(a)

received a sponsorship contribution before the start of a recall
petition period,




(b)

did not use all or part of the contribution to sponsor non-petition
period recall advertising, and




(c)

became an authorized participant at the start of the petition period.




(2)

On the date the petition period begins, the unused sponsorship
contribution or portion of the sponsorship contribution becomes a
recall contribution to the authorized participant.




(3)

Section 116.02 does not apply to a recall contribution referred to in
subsection (2) if the authorized participant had, as a recall
advertising sponsor, received confirmation and consent in accordance
with section 146.09.






Confirmation and consent requirements for using recall contributions




116.02


Before an authorized participant may use a recall contribution for a
recall expense, the authorized participant must obtain from the
contributor the following in writing:




(a)

a confirmation from the contributor that the contributor is an
eligible individual;




(b)

consent that the authorized participant may use all or part of the
contribution for the purpose of promoting or opposing the recall of
the Member, as applicable.






Contributor confirmation and consent in relation to recall
contribution




116.03

(1)


A contributor may provide a contributor confirmation and contributor
consent




(a)

at the time the contributor makes a contribution, or




(b)

after the date the contributor makes a contribution but before the
earlier of the following:




(i)

the date that is 24 months after the date the contributor made the
contribution;




(ii)

the date the authorized participant uses the contribution.




(2)

An authorized participant




(a)

may request the contributor to provide a contributor confirmation and
contributor consent, and




(b)

must, when making that request, advise the contributor whether the
contributor has previously provided a contributor consent for one or
more contributions in the applicable calendar year, and, if so, the
amount of those contributions.




(3)

An authorized participant that does not obtain a contributor
confirmation and contributor consent must not use any part of the
contribution for paying recall expenses.






Recall contribution limits




116.04

(1)


An eligible individual must not, in a calendar year, make recall
contributions to an authorized participant such that the following
amounts are, in total, more than the applicable amount referred to in
section 146.10:




(a)

the amount of those recall contributions to the authorized
participant;




(b)

if applicable, the amount of any sponsorship contributions made in
that calendar year to the individual who is now an authorized
participant.




(2)

As an additional restriction, an eligible individual must not, in any
one calendar year, make the following contributions that, in total,
have a value greater than the applicable amount referred to in section
146.10:




(a)

recall contributions to the Member subject to the recall petition;




(b)

sponsorship contributions to that Member;




(c)

political contributions made under section 180 (1) (a), (b), (c) or
(e) of the

Election Act

in relation to




(i)

that Member as a candidate or nomination contestant,




(ii)

the political party that the Member represents, or




(iii)

a constituency association for the electoral district of the Member
that is the local organization for the political party that the Member
represents or that supports the Member as an independent Member.






Restrictions on accepting recall contributions




117

(1)


An authorized participant must not accept a recall contribution except
through the authorized participant's financial agent or assistant
financial agent.




(2)

A financial agent or assistant financial agent must not accept a
recall contribution from a person other than an eligible individual.




(3)

A financial agent or assistant financial agent must not accept a
recall contribution that the financial agent has reason to believe is
made in contravention of this Act.




(4)

If an assistant financial agent becomes aware that a recall
contribution may have been made in contravention of this Act, the
individual must immediately inform the financial agent.






Limits on anonymous contributions




118

(1)


A financial agent must not accept, in relation to a recall petition,
more than 50% of the applicable amount under section 188 (2) of the

Election Act

in permitted anonymous contributions under section 116 (2) (f) of this
Act.




(2)

A financial agent must not accept an anonymous recall contribution if
this will exceed the limit under subsection (1).






Prohibited contributions must be returned




119

(1)


If a financial agent becomes aware that a recall contribution was made
or accepted in contravention of this Act, the financial agent must
return to the contributor




(a)

the recall contribution, or




(b)

an amount equal to the value of the recall contribution,


within 14 days after the financial agent becomes aware of the
contravention.




(2)

If a financial agent is not able to comply with subsection (1), as
soon as practicable the financial agent must instead pay the amount
referred to in that subsection to the chief electoral officer for
payment to the consolidated revenue fund.




(3)

If an account maintained by a financial agent for an authorized
participant contains insufficient funds to make a payment required
under subsection (1) or (2), the authorized participant is liable to
provide the necessary funds to meet the deficiency.






Financial agent must record each recall contribution




120

(1)


For the purposes of complying with the reporting requirements of this
Part, a financial agent must record the following for each recall
contribution made to the authorized participant:




(a)

the value of the contribution;




(b)

the date the contribution was received;




(c)

the full name and address of the contributor;




(d)

whether the contribution is




(i)

a charge per individual greater than $250 for a fundraising function,
or




(ii)

a contribution described in section 113 (3) or (4) that is for a
fundraising function and has a value greater than $250;




(e)

in the case of a contribution described in paragraph (d), the date of
the fundraising function.




(2)

As an exception in the case of anonymous contributions permitted under
section 116 (2) (f), the financial agent must record the following:




(a)

a description of the function at which the contributions were
collected;




(b)

the date of the function;




(c)

the number of people in attendance at the function;




(d)

the total amount of anonymous contributions accepted.




(3)

At the time a permissible loan, or a guarantee for a permissible loan,
is received, the financial agent must record the following:




(a)

the name of the savings institution making the loan or the guarantee;




(b)

the amount of the loan;




(c)

the rate of interest charged for the loan;




(d)

the prime rate of the principal banker to the government at the time
the rate of interest for the loan is fixed;




(e)

the date the loan is due.




(4)

If applicable, the financial agent must record the following:




(a)

if there has been a default on a permissible loan, the date of the
default;




(b)

if there has been a call on a guarantee for a permissible loan, the
date of the call;




(c)

if there has been non-compliance with the terms and conditions of a
guarantee for a permissible loan, the date of the non-compliance.




(5)

For a fundraising function held by or on behalf of an authorized
participant for the purpose of raising funds to be used in relation to
the recall petition, the financial agent must record the following:




(a)

a description of the function;




(b)

the date of the function;




(c)

the cost, the gross income and the net income or loss arising from the
function.




(6)

For a specified fundraising function to which section 115.02 applies,
the financial agent must record the following:




(a)

the name of every member of the Executive Council, parliamentary
secretary or leader of a major political party who attended the
specified fundraising function;




(b)

the amount of the charge per individual for the specified fundraising
function;




(c)

if the specified fundraising function is held




(i)

in or on premises that are used as a private residence, the address of
the premises and the name of the person who usually uses the premises
as a private residence, and




(ii)

in or on premises other than premises that are used as a private
residence, the usual name of the premises.






Amounts transferred for use by Member




120.01

(1)


Subject to subsection (6), a political party or constituency
association may transfer to a Member who is an authorized participant
money for use by the Member in opposing the recall petition.




(2)

A Member who is an authorized participant may transfer political
contributions received by the Member as a candidate to the Member as
an authorized participant for use in opposing the recall petition.




(3)

An amount transferred under this section is not a recall contribution.




(4)

The financial agent for the Member must, within 14 days after the
financing report filing, return to their source any amounts
transferred under subsection (1) or (2) that were not used in opposing
the recall petition.




(5)

For the purposes of the

Election Act

, amounts transferred or returned under this section are amounts that
are to be reported under section 180 (6) of that Act.




(6)

A political party or constituency association must not transfer under
this section an amount greater than $1 200 from political
contributions made by an eligible individual.




(7)

Within 14 days after making a transfer under this section from
political contributions, the political party or constituency
association making the transfer must provide to the chief electoral
officer and to the Member a report that includes, for each eligible
individual who made political contributions that are being
transferred,




(a)

the name of the individual,




(b)

the amount of the political contributions from that individual that
are being transferred, and




(c)

the date on which the transfer was made.






Return of unused recall contributions




120.02

(1)


This section applies if an authorized participant has an unused recall
contribution, or a portion of a recall contribution that is unused, on
the date the financing report under section 125 (1) is filed.




(2)

Subject to subsection (3), the financial agent for the authorized
participant must, within 14 days after the financing report filing,
return to the contributor




(a)

the unused contribution or portion of a contribution, or




(b)

an amount equal to the value of that contribution or portion.




(3)

Contributions must not be returned under subsection (2) if the
authorized participant has




(a)

a permissible loan referred to in section 112 that is unpaid, or




(b)

an outstanding debt referred to in section 112.01 that is unpaid.




(4)

If a financial agent is not able to comply with subsection (2), the
financial agent must instead, as soon as practicable, pay the amount
to be returned under that subsection to the chief electoral officer
for payment to the consolidated revenue fund.




Division 4 — Recall Expenses





Restrictions on who may incur recall expenses




121

(1)


An individual or organization who is not an authorized participant
must not incur a recall expense other than a recall advertising
expense.




(2)

The financial agent of an authorized participant must not pay a recall
expense unless the payment is made out of the property of the
authorized participant for whom it is incurred.






Recall expenses in excess of limit prohibited




122

(1)


An authorized participant must not incur a recall expense if incurring
the expense will result in the recall expenses exceeding the expenses
limit determined under section 123.




(2)

The following expenses are not to be included as recall expenses for
the purpose of determining whether an authorized participant has
complied with the applicable expenses limit:




(a)

fees charged by the chief electoral officer under this Act;




(b)

costs incurred for producing copies of the petition in accordance with
the regulations;




(c)

personal recall expenses;




(d)

legal or accounting services provided to comply with this Act or the
regulations;




(e)

services provided by a financial agent in that capacity;




(f)

expenses incurred in holding a fundraising function if no deficit is
incurred;




(g)

interest on a loan for recall expenses to an authorized participant;




(h)

expenses prescribed for the purposes of this section by regulation.




(3)

A recall expense that is not included for the purpose of calculating
whether there has been compliance with a limit under this Part remains
a recall expense and is subject to all other provisions of this Act.






Recall expenses limit




123

(1)


For the purpose of determining a recall expenses limit, the number of
voters for an electoral district is the number of registered voters in
the electoral district as of final voting day for the last election of
the Member.




(2)

In the case of an electoral district for which there are 25 000 or
fewer registered voters, the total value of recall expenses incurred
by an authorized participant during a recall petition period must not
exceed the applicable amount under subsection (6) (a) or (7).




(3)

In the case of an electoral district for which there are more than
25 000 registered voters, the total value of recall expenses
incurred by an authorized participant during a recall petition period
must not exceed the total of




(a)

the amount permitted by subsection (2), and




(b)

the applicable amount under subsection (6) (b) or (7) for each
registered voter for the electoral district in excess of 25 000.




(4)

Subject to subsection (5), if an electoral district has an average of
fewer than 2 registered voters for each square kilometre, the limit on
recall expenses under subsection (2) or (3), as applicable, is
increased by the amount calculated by multiplying




(a)

the applicable amount under subsection (6) (c) or (7), and




(b)

the total number of square kilometres in the electoral district.




(5)

The maximum increase in the limit on recall expenses under subsection
(4) is 25% of the limit determined under subsection (2) or (3), as
applicable.




(6)

For a recall petition that is issued during the period beginning on
February 24, 1995 and ending on December 31, 1995,
the following are to be used as the amounts for determining the limits
on recall expenses:




(a)

under subsection (2), $25 000;




(b)

under subsection (3), $0.25;




(c)

under subsection (4), $0.15.




(7)

For each recall petition period that begins on or after January 1,
1996, the chief electoral officer must adjust the amounts under
subsection (6) and, for these purposes, sections 204 (2) and 270.01 of
the

Election Act

apply.




(8)

The chief electoral officer must




(a)

have notice of an adjusted amount under subsection (7) published in
the Gazette, and




(b)

give notice of the amount to the authorized participants.




Division 5 — Reporting





Reporting of information regarding recall contributions




124

(1)


Where this Act requires that recall contributions be disclosed in a
report, the report must include the following:




(a)

for each contributor who made one or more recall contributions that in
total have a value of more than the applicable amount under section
206 (1) (a) of the

Election Act

, the information required to be recorded under section 120 (1) of
this Act;




(b)

for anonymous contributions, the information required to be recorded
under section 120 (2);




(c)

for contributions not referred to in paragraph (a) or (b), the
aggregate value of the contributions received and the total number of
contributors from whom they were received.




(2)

On request by the chief electoral officer, a contributor must file
with the chief electoral officer a solemn declaration that the
contributor has not contravened this Act or the regulations.






Recall financing report




125

(1)


Within 28 days after the end of the recall petition period, the
financial agent of an authorized participant must file with the chief
electoral officer a financing report in accordance with this section.




(2)

A financing report must include the following:




(a)

the recall expenses incurred by the authorized participant, showing
separately those expenses that are not included for the purposes of
determining whether the expenses limit was exceeded;




(b)

the recall contributions accepted by the authorized participant
reported in accordance with section 124;




(c)

any loans or guarantees received by the authorized participant for
recall expenses and any conditions attached to them, including




(i)

the date the loan is due, and




(ii)

for permissible loans, the information recorded under section 120 (3)
and (4);




(d)

for recall fundraising functions held by or on behalf of the
authorized participant, the information recorded under section 120
(5);




(d.01)

if section 115.02 (3) applies in relation to the authorized
participant, the information provided under that subsection to the
financial agent of the authorized participant;




(d.02)

any sponsorship contributions




(i)

received by the proponent who applied for the issuance of the recall
petition or by the Member subject to the recall petition, including
such contributions received before the start of the recall petition
period, and




(ii)

used to sponsor non-petition period recall advertising;




(d.03)

for an authorized participant who is a Member,




(i)

any amounts transferred to the Member under section 120.01 (1) or (2),




(ii)

any of the amounts referred to in subparagraph (i) that were used for
expenditures by the Member in relation to the recall petition, and




(iii)

any of the amounts referred to in subparagraph (i) that were
transferred back to their source under section 120.01 (4);




(e)

any income received and any expenditures made or incurred by the
authorized participant in relation to the recall petition, if these
are not otherwise disclosed in the report;




(f)

any recall contributions received but returned or otherwise dealt with
in accordance with section 119.




(3)

A supplementary report must be filed with the chief electoral officer
as follows:




(a)

if any of the information required to be disclosed in a report filed
under this section changes, the financial agent must file a
supplementary report within 14 days after the financial agent or the
authorized participant becomes aware of the change;




(b)

if the financial agent or the authorized participant for whom the
financial agent is acting becomes aware that a report under this
section did not completely and accurately disclose the information
required to be disclosed in the report, the financial agent must file
a supplementary report within 14 days after the financial agent or
authorized participant becomes aware of the incompleteness or
inaccuracy.




(4)

A report under this section must be prepared in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles and must be filed with a
signed statement of the financial agent as to its accuracy.




(5)

After examining a report under this section, the chief electoral
officer may require the report to be audited in accordance with the
directions of the chief electoral officer at the expense of the
authorized participant, and may establish a time limit by which the
financial agent must provide the report to the chief electoral
officer.




(6)

A report under this section must be available for public inspection at
the office of the chief electoral officer during its regular office
hours until one year after final voting day for the next general
election.




(6.01)

The information available for public inspection under subsection (6)
must not include the address of a contributor.




(7)

For certainty, a report under this section is required even if the
recall petition is not submitted to the chief electoral officer in
accordance with section 23.






Publication of financing summary




126

(1)


As soon as practicable after a report under section 125 (1) is
received, the chief electoral officer must publish a report including
the following:




(a)

the name of the authorized participant on whose behalf the financing
report is filed;




(b)

an identification of the relevant recall petition;




(c)

a summary of the information included in the financing report for that
petition;




(d)

a statement of the applicable expenses limit;




(e)

a statement as to whether the authorized participant complied with the
applicable expenses limit.




(2)

The chief electoral officer may publish a report under subsection (1)
on an Elections BC authorized internet site.




Division 6 — Penalties for Failure to Comply





Publication of failure to comply




127

(1)


The chief electoral officer must




(a)

publish on an Elections BC authorized internet site




(i)

the name of an authorized participant for whom a recall financing
report is not filed in accordance with section 125,




(ii)

the name of an authorized participant for whom a required recall
financing report is not filed in accordance with section 130,




(iii)

the name of an authorized participant who exceeds the expenses limit,
and




(iv)

the name of an authorized participant in relation to whom there was a
conviction under section 162 in relation to a recall financing report,
and




(b)

have notice of the information described in paragraph (a) published in
the Gazette.




(2)

The information published under subsection (1) (a) must continue to be
published on an Elections BC authorized internet site until one year
after final voting day for the next general election.




(3)

Publication of the notice under subsection (1) (b) must take place as
soon as practicable after the chief electoral officer becomes aware of
the applicable circumstances referred to in that subsection.






Effect of incurring expenses over limit




128

(1)


Unless relief is granted by a court under section 129,




(a)

if the proponent exceeds the expenses limit,




(i)

the recall petition fails, and




(ii)

the proponent must pay to the chief electoral officer a penalty of
double the amount by which the expenses exceed the limit, and




(b)

if the Member exceeds the expenses limit, the Member must pay to the
chief electoral officer a penalty of 10 times the amount by which the
expenses exceed the limit.




(2)

The penalties referred to in subsection (1) are effective as follows:




(a)

if no application under section 129 is made in respect of an
authorized participant subject to the penalty, at the end of the
period for making such an application;




(b)

if, on the final determination of an application under
section 129, the court refuses to grant relief from the penalty,
at the time of that determination.




(3)

In all cases, until the applicable penalty under subsection (1) is
paid, an authorized participant who exceeds the recall expenses limit
is not eligible




(a)

to apply for the issuance of a petition under section 19, or




(b)

to act as a financial agent in relation to a recall petition.




(4)

A penalty received by the chief electoral officer under this section
must be paid into the consolidated revenue fund.






Court order for relief from expenses limit




129

(1)


An authorized participant may apply by petition to the Supreme Court
in accordance with this section for relief from section 128 for
failing to comply with an expenses limit.




(2)

An application may be made only




(a)

within 58 days after the end of the recall petition period, or




(b)

if the failure to comply is disclosed by a supplementary report under
section 125 (3), within 14 days after the day on which the
supplementary report is filed.




(3)

Within 7 days after it is filed, the petition commencing an
application must be served on the chief electoral officer.




(4)

The applicant and the chief electoral officer are parties to the
application.




(5)

On the hearing of an application, the court may




(a)

grant relief if the court considers that, in relation to the
non-compliance, the financial agent and the applicant have acted in
good faith, or




(b)

refuse to grant relief.






Late filing of required reports




130

(1)


This section applies if a financial agent fails to file a report under
Division 5 of this Part with the chief electoral officer within the
time period established by that Division or by a court under
section 132.




(2)

The chief electoral officer must give notice to the authorized
participant for whom the report was to be filed that, if the report is
not filed within the late filing period permitted by this section, the
authorized participant will be subject to the penalties provided in
this Division unless an extension is granted by a court under
section 132.




(3)

On payment to the chief electoral officer of a late filing fee of the
applicable amount under section 220 (5) (b) of the

Election Act

, the report may be filed within 30 days after the end of the
time period for filing established by Division 5 of this Part or
before a later date permitted by a court under section 132 of
this Act.






Failure to file recall financing report




131

(1)


Unless relief is granted by a court on an application under section
132 commenced before the end of the late filing period under section
130 (3), the following penalties apply if a recall financing report is
not filed with the chief electoral officer before the end of that
period:




(a)

in the case of a report for the proponent,




(i)

the recall petition fails, and




(ii)

the proponent must pay a penalty of the applicable amount under
section 220 (5) (a) of the

Election Act

to the chief electoral officer for each day after the last day on
which it may be filed under section 130 of this Act up to the
date on which it is in fact filed;




(b)

in the case of a report for the Member, the Member must pay a penalty
of the applicable amount under section 220 (5) (b) of the

Election Act

to the chief electoral officer for each day after the last day on
which it may be filed under section 130 of this Act up to the
date on which it is in fact filed.




(2)

The penalties referred to in subsection (1) are effective as follows:




(a)

if no application under section 132 is made in respect of an
authorized participant subject to the penalty, at the end of the
period for making such an application;




(b)

if, on the final determination of an application under
section 132, the court refuses to grant relief from the penalty,
at the time of that determination.




(3)

In all cases, until the applicable penalty under subsection (1) is
paid and the report is filed, an authorized participant who fails to
file a recall financing report is not eligible




(a)

to apply for the issuance of a petition under section 19, or




(b)

to act as a financial agent in relation to a recall petition.






Court order for relief from filing obligations




132

(1)


An authorized participant may apply to the Supreme Court in accordance
with this section for relief from an obligation to file a financing
report in accordance with this Act.




(2)

An application may be made only




(a)

within 58 days after the end of the recall petition period, or




(b)

in the case of a supplementary report referred to in section 125 (3),
within 14 days after the authorized participant becomes aware of the
change, incompleteness or inaccuracy referred to in that section.




(3)

Within 7 days after it is filed, the petition commencing an
application must be served on the other authorized participant, by
service on that authorized participant or on the financial agent of
that authorized participant, and on the chief electoral officer.




(4)

The applicant, the other authorized participant and the chief
electoral officer are parties to the application.




(5)

On the hearing of an application, the court may do the following:




(a)

relieve the applicant from the obligation to file the report, or from
specified obligations in relation to the report, if the court
considers that, in relation to the non-compliance, the financial agent
and the authorized participant have acted in good faith;




(b)

grant an extension of the time for filing the report without payment
of a late filing fee under section 130 if




(i)

the application is commenced before the end of the time for filing
without penalty, and




(ii)

the court considers that, in relation to the non-compliance, the
financial agent and the authorized participant have acted in good
faith;




(c)

grant an extension of the time for filing the report, subject to
payment of the late filing fee under section 130, if the court
considers that, in relation to the non-compliance, the financial agent
and the authorized participant have acted in good faith;




(d)

make any order the court considers appropriate to secure compliance
with this Act and the regulations to the extent the court considers
reasonable in the circumstances;




(e)

refuse to grant an extension or other relief.






False or misleading reports relating to a recall petition




133

(1)


In addition to the penalty referred to in section 162,




(a)

if the proponent of a recall petition is convicted under that section
in relation to a report under this Part relating to the recall
petition, at the end of the applicable time under subsection (3) that
recall petition fails, or




(b)

if a Member is convicted under that section in relation to a report
under this Part relating to a recall petition, at the applicable time
under subsection (3) the Member ceases to hold office and the seat of
the Member becomes vacant.




(2)

The chief electoral officer must present a report to the Speaker
respecting a Member who may be subject to the penalty under subsection
(1) (b) as soon as possible after the conviction to which it relates.




(3)

Subsection (1) applies as follows:




(a)

if no appeal of the conviction is made, at the end of the period for
making such an appeal;




(b)

if the conviction is upheld on its final determination on appeal, at
the time of that determination.






Monetary penalties for making or accepting prohibited loan or
guarantee




133.01

(1)


Within 7 days of the chief electoral officer making a determination of
non-compliance with section 112 (2), (3) or (5) by a person, the chief
electoral officer must notify the person of the non-compliance and the
related penalty.




(2)

Unless relief is granted by a court on an application under section
133.10, if the chief electoral officer gives notice under subsection
(1), the person must pay to the chief electoral officer a penalty of
up to 100% of the amount of the loan, as determined by the chief
electoral officer.






Monetary penalties for accepting recall contributions from specified
fundraising functions using private residence property




133.02

(1)


Within 7 days of the chief electoral officer making a determination of
non-compliance with section 115.01 (2) by an authorized participant,
the chief electoral officer must notify the authorized participant of
the non-compliance and the related penalty.




(2)

Unless relief is granted by a court on an application under section
133.10, if the chief electoral officer gives notice under subsection
(1) of this section, the authorized participant must pay to the chief
electoral officer a penalty in the amount of up to double the amount
of the recall contribution raised by the specified fundraising
function, as determined by the chief electoral officer.






Monetary penalties for failure to provide information respecting
specified fundraising functions




133.03

(1)


Within 7 days of the chief electoral officer making a determination of
non-compliance with section 115.02 (1), (2), (3) or (4) by the
organization or individual required to provide information under that
provision, the chief electoral officer must notify that organization
or individual of the non-compliance and the related penalty.




(2)

Unless relief is granted by a court on an application under section
133.10, if the chief electoral officer gives notice under subsection
(1) of this section, the individual or organization must pay to the
chief electoral officer a penalty in the amount of up to $10 000, as
determined by the chief electoral officer.






Monetary penalties respecting prohibited recall contributions




133.04

(1)


Within 7 days of the chief electoral officer making a determination of
non-compliance with section 116 by a person, the chief electoral
officer must notify the person of the non-compliance and the related
penalty.




(2)

Unless relief is granted by a court on an application under section
133.10, if the chief electoral officer gives notice under subsection
(1) of this section, the person must pay to the chief electoral
officer a penalty as follows:




(a)

other than in relation to non-compliance with section 116 (2) (c) or
(f), a penalty in the amount of up to double the amount of the recall
contribution, as determined by the chief electoral officer;




(b)

in the case of non-compliance with section 116 (2) (c), a penalty in
the amount of up to double the amount that the recall contribution
exceeds the amount described in that provision, as determined by the
chief electoral officer;




(c)

in the case of non-compliance with section 116 (2) (f), a penalty in
the amount of up to double the amount that the recall contribution
exceeds $50, as determined by the chief electoral officer.




(3)

Within 7 days of the chief electoral officer making a determination of
non-compliance with section 116 (2) (c) or (f) by an eligible
individual, the chief electoral officer must notify the eligible
individual of the non-compliance and the related penalty.




(4)

Unless relief is granted by a court on an application under section
133.10, if the chief electoral officer gives notice under subsection
(3) of this section, the eligible individual must pay to the chief
electoral officer a penalty in the amount of up to double the amount
that the recall contribution,




(a)

in the case of non-compliance with section 116 (2) (c), exceeds the
amount described in section 116 (2) (c), as determined by the chief
electoral officer, or




(b)

in the case of non-compliance with section 116 (2) (f), exceeds $50,
as determined by the chief electoral officer.






Monetary penalties in relation to prohibited transfers




133.05

(1)


Within 7 days of the chief electoral officer making a determination of
non-compliance with section 120.01 (6) or (7) by a political party or
constituency association, the chief electoral officer must notify the
financial agent of the political party or constituency association of
the non-compliance and the related penalty.




(2)

Unless relief is granted by a court on an application under section
133.10, if the chief electoral officer gives notice under subsection
(1) of this section, the political party or constituency association
must pay to the chief electoral officer




(a)

in the case of non-compliance with section 120.01 (6), a penalty in
the amount of up to double the amount of the transfer that exceeded
the limit set in section 120.01 (6), as determined by the chief
electoral officer, and




(b)

in the case of non-compliance with section 120.01 (7), a penalty in
the amount of up to double the amount of the transfer, as determined
by the chief electoral officer.






Monetary penalties for exceeding recall contribution limits




133.06

(1)


Within 7 days of the chief electoral officer making a determination of
non-compliance with section 116.04 by an eligible individual, the
chief electoral officer must notify the eligible individual of the
non-compliance and the related penalty.




(2)

Unless relief is granted by a court on an application under section
133.10, if the chief electoral officer gives notice under subsection
(1) of this section, the eligible individual must pay to the chief
electoral officer a penalty in the amount of up to double the amount
that the contributions exceed the applicable limit set in section
116.04 (1) or (2), as determined by the chief electoral officer.






Monetary penalties respecting accepting recall contributions




133.07

(1)


Within 7 days of the chief electoral officer making a determination of
non-compliance with section 117 by an authorized participant, by the
financial agent of an authorized participant or by the assistant
financial agent of an authorized participant, the chief electoral
officer must notify the authorized participant of the non-compliance
and the related penalty.




(2)

Unless relief is granted by a court on an application under section
133.10, if the chief electoral officer gives notice under subsection
(1) of this section, the authorized participant, financial agent or
assistant financial agent must pay to the chief electoral officer a
penalty in the amount of up to double the amount of the recall
contribution, as determined by the chief electoral officer.






Monetary penalties respecting anonymous recall contributions




133.08

(1)


Within 7 days of the chief electoral officer making a determination of
non-compliance with section 118 by a financial agent for an authorized
participant, the chief electoral officer must notify the authorized
participant of the non-compliance and the related penalty.




(2)

Unless relief is granted by a court on an application under section
133.10, if the chief electoral officer gives notice under subsection
(1) of this section, the financial agent of the authorized participant
must pay to the chief electoral officer a penalty in the amount of up
to double the amount that the recall contribution exceeds the
anonymous contribution limit set in section 118, as determined by the
chief electoral officer.






Monetary penalties for failure to return recall contributions




133.09

(1)


Within 7 days of the chief electoral officer making a determination of
non-compliance with section 119 by a financial agent, the chief
electoral officer must notify the financial agent of the
non-compliance and the related penalty.




(2)

Unless relief is granted by a court on an application under section
133.10, if the chief electoral officer gives notice under subsection
(1) of this section, the financial agent must pay to the chief
electoral officer a penalty in the amount of up to double the amount
of the recall contribution, as determined by the chief electoral
officer.






Court order for relief respecting recall contributions




133.10

(1)


A person who is subject to a monetary penalty under sections 133.01 to
133.09 may apply to the Supreme Court in accordance with this section
for relief from the monetary penalty for non-compliance with the
applicable section.




(2)

A political party may apply under subsection (1) respecting a monetary
penalty imposed on an authorized participant who is a Member
representing the party or on a financial agent or assistant financial
agent of the Member.




(3)

An application may be made only within 30 days after the chief
electoral officer, under the applicable section referred to in
subsection (1), notifies the person of the non-compliance and related
penalty.




(4)

The petition commencing an application must be served on the chief
electoral officer within 7 days after the petition is filed and the
chief electoral officer is a party to the application.




(5)

On the hearing of an application, the court may do the following:




(a)

grant relief from a penalty if the court considers that, in relation
to the non-compliance, the person has acted in good faith;




(b)

make any order the court considers appropriate to secure compliance
with the applicable section to the extent the court considers
reasonable in the circumstances;




(c)

refuse to grant relief.






Publication of names




133.11

(1)


The chief electoral officer must




(a)

publish on an Elections BC authorized internet site




(i)

the names of persons on whom the chief electoral officer has imposed a
monetary penalty under sections 133.01 to 133.09,




(ii)

the section under which the chief electoral officer has imposed the
monetary penalty, and




(iii)

the amount of the monetary penalty, and




(b)

have notice of the information described in paragraph (a) published in
the Gazette.




(2)

The information published under subsection (1) (a) must continue to be
published on an Elections BC authorized internet site until one year
after final voting day for the next general election.




(3)

Publication of the notice under subsection (1) (b) must take place as
soon as practicable after the chief electoral officer imposes the
monetary penalty.




Part 8 — Recall Petition Communications



Division 1 — General





Repealed




134


[Repealed 2018-41-25.]






Contributions to recall advertising sponsors




134.01

(1)


In this Part,
"recall advertising sponsor"
means the following:




(a)

an individual or organization that sponsors petition period recall
advertising in respect of a recall petition, other than an authorized
participant for the recall petition;




(b)

an individual or organization that sponsors non-petition period recall
advertising.




(2)

Subject to this Part, a contribution, in relation to recall
advertising, is an amount of money or the value of any property or
services provided without compensation by way of donation, advance,
deposit, discount or otherwise to a recall advertising sponsor,
whether provided before or after the recall advertising sponsor
sponsors recall advertising.






Sponsorship of recall advertising




135

(1)


For the purposes of this Part, the sponsor of recall advertising is
whichever of the following is applicable:




(a)

the individual or organization who pays for the recall advertising to
be conducted;




(b)

if the services of conducting the advertising are provided without
charge as a contribution, the individual or organization to whom the
services are provided as a contribution;




(c)

if the individual or organization who is the sponsor within the
meaning of paragraph (a) or (b) is acting on behalf of another
individual or organization, the other individual or organization.




(2)

Where this Part requires the inclusion of a mailing address or
telephone number at which a recall advertising sponsor can be
contacted,




(a)

any mailing address given must be within British Columbia,




(b)

any telephone number given must be that of a place within British
Columbia, and




(c)

the recall advertising sponsor must make available an individual to be
responsible for answering questions from the public that are directed
to the address or telephone number.




(3)

Where this Part requires a recall advertising sponsor to be
identified, for a numbered corporation or an unincorporated
organization the identification must include both




(a)

the name of the organization, and




(b)

the name of an individual director or, if there are no individual
directors, an individual who is a principal officer or principal
member of the organization.




(4)

On request of the chief electoral officer,




(a)

an individual identified as a recall advertising sponsor, or




(b)

an individual identified as a director, principal officer or principal
member of an organization identified as a recall advertising sponsor


must file with the chief electoral officer a solemn declaration that
the identified recall advertising sponsor is in fact the recall
advertising sponsor and that the recall advertising sponsor has not
contravened this Part.






No indirect sponsorship of recall advertising




136


An individual or organization must not sponsor recall advertising with
the property of any other individual or organization or indirectly
through any other individual or organization.






Recall advertising must identify sponsor




137

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), an individual or organization must not
sponsor, or publish, broadcast or transmit to the public, any recall
advertising unless the advertising




(a)

identifies the name of the recall advertising sponsor or, in the case
of an authorized participant, the name of the financial agent,




(b)

if applicable, indicates that the sponsor is a registered recall
advertising sponsor under this Act,




(c)

indicates that it was authorized by the identified recall advertising
sponsor or financial agent, and




(d)

gives a telephone number or mailing address at which the recall
advertising sponsor or financial agent may be contacted regarding the
advertising.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply to any class of recall advertising
exempted under section 171.




(3)

The chief electoral officer, or a person acting on the direction of
the chief electoral officer, may




(a)

remove and destroy, without notice to any person, or




(b)

require a person to remove or discontinue, and destroy,


any recall advertising that does not meet the requirements of
subsection (1) and is not exempted under subsection (2).






Identification of sponsor — activities




137.01

(1)


With respect to an activity described in section 1 (4) (a), the person
canvassing a voter must provide to the voter the information described
in section 137 (1) (a) to (c).




(2)

With respect to an activity described in section 1 (4) (b), the
material must include the information described in section 137 (1) (a)
to (d).




(3)

The chief electoral officer, or a person acting on the direction of
the chief electoral officer, may require a person to discontinue any
activity referred to in subsections (1) and (2) of this section that
does not meet the requirements described in those subsections.






Monetary penalties for failure to identify sponsor




137.02

(1)


Within 7 days of the chief electoral officer making a determination of
non-compliance with section 137 or 137.01 by a person, the chief
electoral officer must notify the person of the non-compliance and the
related penalty.




(2)

Unless relief is granted by a court on an application under this
section, if the chief electoral officer gives notice under subsection
(1) of this section, the person must pay to the chief electoral
officer a penalty in the amount of up to $10 000, as determined by the
chief electoral officer.




(3)

A person who is subject to a monetary penalty under this section may
apply to the Supreme Court in accordance with this section for relief
from the monetary penalty for non-compliance.




(4)

An application may be made only within 30 days after the chief
electoral officer, under subsection (1), notifies the person of the
non-compliance and the related penalty.




(5)

The petition commencing an application must be served on the chief
electoral officer within 7 days after the petition is filed and the
chief electoral officer is a party to the application.




(6)

On the hearing of an application, the court may do the following:




(a)

grant relief from a penalty if the court considers that, in relation
to the non-compliance, the person has acted in good faith;




(b)

make any order the court considers appropriate to secure compliance
with section 137 or 137.01 to the extent the court considers
reasonable in the circumstances;




(c)

refuse to grant relief.






Restriction on rates charged for recall advertising




138


An individual or organization must not charge a rate for recall
advertising in a periodical publication or on radio or television that
exceeds the lowest rate charged by the individual or organization for
equivalent advertising in the same medium during the same recall
petition period.






Repealed




139


[Repealed 2002-60-18.]




Division 2





Repealed




140-142


[Repealed 2002-60-19.]




Division 3 — Registration of Recall Advertising Sponsors





Recall advertising sponsors must be registered




143

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), an individual or organization who is not
registered under this Division must not sponsor recall advertising.




(1.01)

An individual or organization must not sponsor recall advertising in
relation to an electoral district unless the individual or
organization is registered as a recall advertising sponsor in relation
to that electoral district.




(1.02)

An individual or organization must not sponsor petition period recall
advertising in relation to a recall petition unless the individual or
organization is registered as a recall advertising sponsor in relation
to that recall petition.




(2)

An authorized participant is not required to be registered to sponsor
petition period recall advertising in relation to a recall petition
for which the individual is an authorized participant.






Independence from authorized participants




143.01

(1)


A recall advertising sponsor who sponsors petition period recall
advertising in relation to a recall petition must be independent of
the authorized participants in respect of the petition and must not
sponsor recall advertising on behalf of or together with either of
them.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply to




(a)

the political party that the Member who is the subject of the petition
represents, or




(b)

a constituency association for the electoral district of that Member
that




(i)

is the local organization for the political party that the Member
represents, or




(ii)

supports the Member as an independent Member.






Registration with chief electoral officer




144

(1)


An individual or organization who wishes to register as a recall
advertising sponsor in relation to an electoral district must file an
application in accordance with this section with the chief electoral
officer.




(2)

An application must include the following:




(a)

the full name of the applicant and, in the case of an applicant
organization that has a different usual name, this usual name;




(b)

the full address of the applicant;




(c)

in the case of an applicant organization, the names of the principal
officers of the organization or, if there are no principal officers,
of the principal members of the organization;




(d)

an address at which notices and communications under this Act and
other communications will be accepted as served on or otherwise
delivered to the individual or organization;




(e)

a telephone number at which the applicant can be contacted;




(e.1)

identification of the electoral district or electoral districts in
relation to which the applicant wishes to be registered as a recall
advertising sponsor;




(f)

if the individual or organization wishes to sponsor petition period
recall advertising, identification of the recall petition in relation
to which the applicant wishes to be registered as a recall advertising
sponsor;




(g)

any other information required by regulation to be included.




(3)

An application must




(a)

be signed, as applicable, by the individual applicant or, in the case
of an applicant organization, by 2 principal officers of the
organization or, if there are no principal officers, by 2 principal
members of the organization, and




(b)

be accompanied by a signed statement of an individual who signed the
application under paragraph (a) that the applicant




(i)

is not prohibited from being registered by section 146, and




(ii)

does not intend to sponsor recall advertising for any purpose related
to circumventing the provisions of this Act limiting the value of
recall expenses that may be incurred by an authorized participant.




(4)

The chief electoral officer may require applications to be in a
specified form.




(5)

As soon as practicable after receiving an application, if satisfied
that the requirements of this section are met by an applicant, the
chief electoral officer must register the applicant as a recall
advertising sponsor in relation to the electoral district or electoral
districts identified under subsection (2) (e.1) in the register
maintained by the chief electoral officer for this purpose.




(6)

If there is any change in the information referred to in subsection
(2) for a registered recall advertising sponsor, the recall
advertising sponsor must file with the chief electoral officer written
notice of the change within 15 days after it occurs.




(7)

A notice or other communication that is required or authorized under
this Act to be given to a recall advertising sponsor is deemed to have
been given if it is delivered to the applicable address filed under
this section with the chief electoral officer.




(8)

As soon as practicable after the registration of a recall advertising
sponsor, the chief electoral officer must advise the recall
advertising sponsor of the current applicable amount under section
146.10.






Obligations of recall advertising sponsor




145

(1)


The identification of a recall advertising sponsor referred to in
section 137 must be a name filed by the recall advertising
sponsor under section 144 with the chief electoral officer.




(2)

A recall advertising sponsor must maintain records of the following
information in respect of contributions received by the recall
advertising sponsor:




(a)

in the case of anonymous contributions, the date on which the
contributions were received, the total amount received on each date
and, if applicable, the event at which they were received;




(b)

in other cases, the information referred to in section 120 (1) (a) to
(c) and the written contributor confirmations and contributor consents
obtained under section 146.08 (3).






Limit on registration




146


An individual or organization who is subject to a penalty under this
Part or for whom a required report under this Part is not filed is not
entitled to be registered as a recall advertising sponsor until all
such outstanding reports are filed and all such outstanding penalties
are paid.






Voluntary deregistration




146.01

(1)


A registered recall advertising sponsor may apply to the chief
electoral officer for deregistration in accordance with this section.




(2)

As an exception, a recall advertising sponsor may not apply for
deregistration under this section if the recall advertising sponsor is
subject to deregistration under this Part or has not yet paid a
penalty under this Part.




(3)

An application for deregistration must be in writing and must be
signed, as applicable,




(a)

by the individual applicant, or




(b)

in the case of an applicant organization, by 2 principal officers of
the organization or, if there are no principal officers, by 2
principal members of the organization.




(4)

On being satisfied that an application for deregistration is
authorized by the recall advertising sponsor, the chief electoral
officer must deregister the recall advertising sponsor.




(5)

As a limit on subsection (4), if outside of a recall petition period a
registered recall advertising sponsor has sponsored non-petition
period recall advertising or if during a recall petition period a
registered recall advertising sponsor has sponsored petition period
recall advertising, the recall advertising sponsor must not be
deregistered until the recall advertising disclosure report for the
recall advertising sponsor has been filed.






Deregistration on becoming authorized participant




146.02


A registered recall advertising sponsor is deregistered in relation to
an electoral district on the date that the sponsor becomes an
authorized participant for a recall petition that is to be issued for
the recall of the Member for that electoral district under section 107
(1).






Reregistration




146.03


In order to be reregistered, an individual or organization must file
any outstanding reports and pay any outstanding penalties under this
Part.




Division 3.1 — Sponsorship Contributions





Sponsorship contributions




146.04

(1)


Subject to this section and sections 146.05 to 146.07, a sponsorship
contribution is a contribution, in relation to which the contributor
has provided a contributor confirmation and contributor consent, that
is provided to a recall advertising sponsor, whether provided before
or after the recall advertising sponsor sponsors recall advertising.




(2)

If property or services are




(a)

provided to a recall advertising sponsor at less than market value, or




(b)

acquired from a recall advertising sponsor at greater than market
value,


the difference between the market value of the property or services at
the time provided and the amount charged is a sponsorship
contribution.




(3)

The value of the following is not a sponsorship contribution:




(a)

services provided by a volunteer;




(b)

property of a volunteer if it is provided or used in relation to the
services of the individual as a volunteer;




(c)

publishing without charge news, an editorial, an interview, a column,
a letter or a commentary in a bona fide periodical publication or a
radio or television program;




(d)

broadcasting time provided, without charge, as part of a bona fide
public affairs program;




(e)

producing, promoting or distributing a publication for no less than
its market value, if the publication was planned to be sold regardless
of the recall petition.






Loans and guarantees to recall advertising sponsors




146.05

(1)


This section applies to recall advertising sponsors that are required
to file disclosure reports under section 146.19, 147 or 148.01.




(2)

A permissible loan, or a guarantee for a permissible loan, to a recall
advertising sponsor is not a sponsorship contribution.




(3)

A permissible loan, or a guarantee for a permissible loan, to a recall
advertising sponsor must be made only by a savings institution.




(4)

A recall advertising sponsor must not accept a loan other than a
permissible loan.




(5)

A savings institution must not make to a recall advertising sponsor a
loan other than a permissible loan.




(6)

A recall advertising sponsor must not accept a guarantee for a
permissible loan unless the guarantee is provided with
non-preferential treatment.




(7)

A savings institution must not make or accept a guarantee for a
permissible loan to a recall advertising sponsor unless the guarantee
is provided with non-preferential treatment.




(8)

Despite subsection (2), a permissible loan to a recall advertising
sponsor is a sponsorship contribution if a savings institution does
not make commercially reasonable efforts to collect or enforce the
loan.






Debts




146.06

(1)


In this section,
"debt"
means a debt, other than a debt arising from a permissible loan, that
is owed by a recall advertising sponsor in relation to sponsoring
recall advertising.




(2)

A debt is a sponsorship contribution if




(a)

the debt remains unpaid 6 months after becoming due and payable, and




(b)

the creditor does not make commercially reasonable efforts to collect
or recover the debt.




(3)

For certainty, nothing in this section affects the rights of a
creditor in relation to a debt that becomes a sponsorship contribution
under this section.






Sponsorship contributions through fundraising functions




146.07

(1)


A charge per individual for a fundraising function held by or on
behalf of a recall advertising sponsor is a sponsorship contribution
if the recall advertising sponsor obtains a contributor confirmation
and contributor consent for that amount.




(2)

If the amount paid for property or services offered for sale at a
fundraising function held by or on behalf of a recall advertising
sponsor is greater than the market value of the property or services,
the difference between the amount paid and the market value at the
time the amount is agreed to be paid is a sponsorship contribution if
the recall advertising sponsor obtains a contributor confirmation and
contributor consent for that amount.




(3)

The value of property or services, or both, donated by an individual
for sale at a fundraising function held by or on behalf of a recall
advertising sponsor is a sponsorship contribution if the recall
advertising sponsor obtains a contributor confirmation and contributor
consent for that donation unless the property or services are used for
sale at the fundraising function.






Making and using sponsorship contributions




146.08

(1)


A person must not make a sponsorship contribution unless the person is
an eligible individual.




(2)

A recall advertising sponsor must not use a contribution that is not a
sponsorship contribution to sponsor recall advertising.




(3)

Before a recall advertising sponsor may use a contribution to sponsor
recall advertising, the recall advertising sponsor must obtain from
the contributor the following in writing:




(a)

a confirmation from the contributor that the contributor is an
eligible individual;




(b)

consent from the contributor that the recall advertising sponsor may
use all or part of the contribution to sponsor recall advertising in
one or more identified electoral districts.




(4)

If a contributor does not provide a contributor confirmation and
contributor consent, the contribution is not a sponsorship
contribution.




(5)

A recall advertising sponsor must not use a sponsorship contribution
to sponsor recall advertising in an electoral district not identified
by the contributor under subsection (3) (b).






Contributor confirmation and consent in relation to sponsorship
contributions




146.09

(1)


A contributor may provide a contributor confirmation and contributor
consent




(a)

at the time the contributor makes a contribution, or




(b)

after the date the contributor makes a contribution but before the
earlier of the following:




(i)

the date that is 24 months after the date the contributor made the
contribution;




(ii)

the date the recall advertising sponsor uses the contribution.




(2)

A recall advertising sponsor




(a)

may request the contributor to provide a contributor confirmation and
contributor consent, and




(b)

must, when making that request, advise the contributor whether the
contributor has previously provided a contributor consent for one or
more contributions in the applicable calendar year, and, if so, the
amount of those contributions.




(3)

A recall advertising sponsor that does not obtain a contributor
confirmation and contributor consent must not use any part of the
contribution to sponsor recall advertising.






Sponsorship contribution limits




146.10

(1)


An eligible individual must not, in a calendar year, make sponsorship
contributions that have a total value greater than the amount that is
applicable for the year under section 235.05 (4) or (5) of the

Election Act

to any one recall advertising sponsor.




(2)

For certainty, subsection (1) applies even if the recall advertising
sponsor is registered as a recall advertising sponsor in relation to
more than one electoral district.




(3)

A recall advertising sponsor must not accept




(a)

from an eligible individual, in a calendar year, sponsorship
contributions that have a total value greater than the amount that is
applicable for the year under section 235.05 (4) or (5) of the

Election Act

, or




(b)

a sponsorship contribution that the recall advertising sponsor has
reason to believe is made in contravention of this Act.




(4)

If 2 or more recall advertising sponsors sponsor recall advertising in
combination, the recall advertising sponsors must not use sponsorship
contributions from a single contributor that exceed the limit set in
subsection (3) (a) for that sponsorship.






Restrictions on sponsorship contributions




146.11

(1)


An individual or organization must not make a sponsorship contribution
indirectly by giving money, or providing property or services without
compensation, to a person




(a)

for that person to make a sponsorship contribution, or




(b)

as consideration for that person making a sponsorship contribution.




(2)

An individual must not make a sponsorship contribution with money,
property or services of any other person.




(3)

Despite subsections (1) and (2), an individual may make a sponsorship
contribution with money, property or services of another individual,
if that other individual is an eligible individual, but must disclose
to the recall advertising sponsor required to record the contribution
under section 145 (2) the full name and address of the eligible
individual whose money, property or services are being used.






Limits on anonymous sponsorship contributions




146.12

(1)


In respect of petition period recall advertising in relation to a
recall petition, a recall advertising sponsor must not use anonymous
sponsorship contributions




(a)

such that the total value of the anonymous sponsorship contributions
is greater than the applicable amount under section 235.06 (1) (a) (i)
of the

Election Act

, or




(b)

in combination with one or more recall advertising sponsors such that
the total value of the anonymous sponsorship contributions is greater
than the applicable amount under section 235.06 (1) (b) (i) of the

Election Act

.




(2)

In respect of non-petition period recall advertising, a recall
advertising sponsor must not use anonymous sponsorship contributions




(a)

such that the total value of the anonymous sponsorship contributions
is greater than the applicable amount under section 235.06 (1) (a) (i)
of the

Election Act

, in a calendar year, or




(b)

in combination with one or more recall advertising sponsors such that
the total value of the anonymous sponsorship contributions is greater
than the applicable amount under section 235.06 (1) (b) (i) of the

Election Act

, in a calendar year.




(3)

A recall advertising sponsor must not use as an anonymous sponsorship
contribution an anonymous sponsorship contribution that has a value
greater than the applicable amount under section 235.06 (3) of the

Election Act

.




(4)

Sections 146.08 (2) and (3) and 146.09 (3) of this Act do not apply to
anonymous sponsorship contributions.






Prohibited sponsorship contributions must be returned




146.13

(1)


If a recall advertising sponsor becomes aware that a contribution was
made or accepted as a sponsorship contribution in contravention of
this Act, the recall advertising sponsor must, within 14 days after
the recall advertising sponsor becomes aware of the contravention,
return to the contributor




(a)

the contribution, or




(b)

an amount equal to the value of the contribution.




(2)

If a recall advertising sponsor is not able to comply with subsection
(1), the recall advertising sponsor must not use the contribution to
sponsor recall advertising.






Sponsorship contributions over specified amount




146.14


An eligible individual must not make, and a recall advertising sponsor
must not accept, a sponsorship contribution of money in an amount
greater than the applicable amount under section 235.07 of the

Election Act

, except by means of




(a)

a cheque with the name of the contributor legibly shown on it and
drawn on an account in the contributor's name maintained in a savings
institution,




(b)

a money order with the name of the contributor legibly shown on it and
signed by the contributor,




(c)

a credit card in the name of the contributor, or




(d)

an electronic transfer of funds from an account in the contributor's
name maintained in a savings institution.




Division 3.2 — Recall Advertising Limits





Petition period recall advertising limits




146.15

(1)


In respect of a recall petition, an individual or organization other
than an authorized participant must not sponsor, directly or
indirectly, petition period recall advertising during the petition
period




(a)

such that the total value of that petition period recall advertising
is greater than the applicable amount under subsection (2) or (3), or




(b)

in combination with one or more individuals or organizations, or both,
such that the total value of that petition period recall advertising
is greater than the applicable amount under subsection (2) or (3).




(2)

For a recall petition period that begins in 2018, the applicable
amount for subsection (1) (a) and (b) is $5 000.




(3)

Sections 186.01 (3) and 270.01 (2) of the

Election Act

apply to adjust the amounts under this section.






Penalties for exceeding advertising limit




146.16

(1)


Unless relief is granted by a court under section 146.17, if a recall
advertising sponsor exceeds a petition period recall advertising
limit, the recall advertising sponsor




(a)

must pay to the chief electoral officer a penalty of 10 times the
amount by which the value of the petition period recall advertising
sponsored by the recall advertising sponsor exceeds the limit, and




(b)

is deregistered as a recall advertising sponsor under this Part and is
not entitled to be reregistered as a recall advertising sponsor until
the penalty referred to in paragraph (a) is paid.




(2)

In the case of a recall advertising sponsor that is an unincorporated
organization, the members of the organization are jointly and
severally liable to pay the penalty under subsection (1) (b).




(3)

A penalty referred to in subsection (1) is effective as follows:




(a)

if no application under section 146.17 is made in respect of the
recall advertising sponsor, at the end of the period for making such
an application;




(b)

if, on the final determination of an application under section 146.17,
the court refuses to grant relief from the penalty, at the time of
that determination.






Court order for relief from advertising limit




146.17

(1)


A recall advertising sponsor may apply to the Supreme Court in
accordance with this section for relief from penalties under section
146.16.




(2)

An application may be made only within 58 days after the end of the
recall petition period for the recall petition in relation to which
the petition period recall advertising limit was exceeded.




(3)

The petition commencing an application must be served on the chief
electoral officer within 7 days after it is filed and the chief
electoral officer is a party to the application.




(4)

On the hearing of an application, the court may




(a)

grant relief from a penalty if the court considers that, in relation
to the non-compliance, the recall advertising sponsor acted in good
faith, or




(b)

refuse to grant relief.




Division 4 — Reporting by Recall Advertising Sponsors





Disclosure report within 14 days — non-petition period recall
advertising




146.18

(1)


In this section,
"receiving"
, in relation to a sponsorship contribution of money, means the
deposit of the money into an account in a savings institution.




(2)

If a recall advertising sponsor sponsors non-petition period recall
advertising that has a total value greater than $5 000, the recall
advertising sponsor must file with the chief electoral officer an
initial disclosure report that includes the information referred to in
subsection (3) within 14 days of the recall advertising sponsor
sponsoring the advertising message being transmitted to the public
that brings the total value of the non-petition period recall
advertising to an amount greater than $5 000.




(3)

The initial disclosure report must include the following information:




(a)

the full name of each contributor who made one or more sponsorship
contributions that, in total, have a value of more than the applicable
amount under section 243.01 (3) (a) of the

Election Act

;




(b)

the value of each sponsorship contribution made by the contributor
described in paragraph (a) of this subsection and the date on which it
was made.




(4)

If a recall advertising sponsor must file a disclosure report under
subsection (2), the recall advertising sponsor must file with the
chief electoral officer a subsequent disclosure report that includes
the information referred to in subsection (5) within 14 days of the
recall advertising sponsor receiving a sponsorship contribution from a
contributor who makes one or more sponsorship contributions that have
a total value greater than the applicable amount under subsection (3)
(a).




(5)

A subsequent disclosure report must include the following information:




(a)

the full name of each contributor who made one or more sponsorship
contributions that, in total, have a value of more than the applicable
amount under section 243.01 (5) (a) of the

Election Act

, since the date of the initial disclosure report;




(b)

the value of each sponsorship contribution made by the contributor
described in paragraph (a) of this subsection and the date on which it
was made.




(6)

The recall advertising sponsor must file subsequent disclosure reports
under subsection (4) until the recall advertising sponsor is
deregistered as a recall advertising sponsor under this Part.






Disclosure report within 28 days — non-petition period recall
advertising




146.19

(1)


A recall advertising sponsor must file with the chief electoral
officer a recall advertising disclosure report in accordance with this
section and section 146.20 if




(a)

the recall advertising sponsor sponsors non-petition period recall
advertising in an electoral district that has a total value of greater
than the applicable amount under section 244 (1) of the

Election Act

, and




(b)

a recall petition to which the recall advertising relates is issued.




(2)

A recall advertising disclosure report under subsection (1) must be
filed within 28 days after the beginning of the recall petition period
for the recall petition referred to in subsection (1) (b).




(3)

A recall advertising sponsor must file a supplementary report with the
chief electoral officer if any of the information required to be
disclosed in a recall advertising disclosure report changes or if the
recall advertising sponsor becomes aware that the report does not
accurately and completely disclose that information.




(4)

A supplementary report under subsection (3) must be filed within 30
days after the recall advertising sponsor becomes aware of the
circumstances requiring the report to be filed.




(5)

This section does not apply to a recall advertising sponsor who
becomes an authorized participant for a recall petition to which the
recall advertising relates before a recall advertising disclosure
report is due under subsection (2).






Contents of 28-day disclosure report — non-petition period recall
advertising




146.20

(1)


A recall advertising disclosure report filed under section 146.19 must
be in the form specified by the chief electoral officer and must
include the following information:




(a)

the value of the non-petition period recall advertising sponsored by
the recall advertising sponsor in the electoral district in which the
petition was issued that was not previously reported under section
148.01, reported by class as required by regulation;




(b)

the amount of the sponsorship contributions accepted, but not
previously reported under section 148.01, by the recall advertising
sponsor, in relation to the non-petition period recall advertising
referred to in paragraph (a), reported in accordance with subsections
(2) to (4) of this section;




(c)

any amount of the recall advertising sponsor's assets, other than
assets received by way of sponsorship contributions reported under
paragraph (b), that was used to pay for the non-petition period recall
advertising referred to in paragraph (a);




(d)

any other information required by the chief electoral officer to be
included.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1) (b), amounts accepted from
anonymous contributors must be reported separately.




(3)

For the purposes of subsection (1) (b), if the records of the recall
advertising sponsor indicate that a contributor made one or more
sponsorship contributions that, in total, have a value of more than
the applicable amount under section 245 (3) of the

Election Act

, the report under this section must include the following:




(a)

the full name and address of the individual;




(b)

the value of each sponsorship contribution and the date on which it
was received.




(4)

For anonymous sponsorship contributions, the report under this section
must include the dates on which the sponsorship contributions were
received, the amounts received on each date and, if applicable, the
events at which they were received.




(5)

A report under this section must be accompanied by a signed
declaration of the individual recall advertising sponsor or, in the
case of an organization, by a principal officer of the organization
or, if there are no principal officers, by a principal member of the
organization, as to the accuracy of the report.






Disclosure report within 28 days — petition period recall advertising




147

(1)


If a recall advertising sponsor sponsors petition period recall
advertising that has a total value of greater than the applicable
amount under section 244 (1) of the

Election Act

, the recall advertising sponsor must file with the chief electoral
officer a recall advertising disclosure report in accordance with this
section and section 148 of this Act.




(2)

A recall advertising disclosure report under subsection (1) must be
filed with the chief electoral officer within 28 days after the end of
the recall petition period to which it relates.




(3)

[Repealed 2018-41-40.]




(4)

A recall advertising sponsor must file a supplementary report with the
chief electoral officer if any of the information required to be
disclosed in a recall advertising disclosure report changes or if the
recall advertising sponsor becomes aware that the report does not
accurately and completely disclose that information.




(5)

A supplementary report under subsection (4) must be filed within the
equivalent period under section 125 (3) after the recall advertising
sponsor becomes aware of the facts in relation to which the report is
required.






Contents of 28-day disclosure report — petition period recall
advertising




148

(1)


A recall advertising disclosure report filed under section 147 must be
in the form specified by the chief electoral officer and must include
the following information:




(a)

the value of the petition period recall advertising sponsored by the
recall advertising sponsor in relation to the recall petition to which
the report relates, reported by class as required by regulation;




(b)

the amount of the sponsorship contributions accepted, but not
previously reported under section 146.19, by the recall advertising
sponsor, in relation to the petition period recall advertising
referred to in paragraph (a), reported in accordance with subsections
(2) to (4) of this section;




(c)

any amount of the recall advertising sponsor's assets, other than
assets received by way of sponsorship contributions reported under
paragraph (b), that was used to pay for the petition period recall
advertising referred to in paragraph (a);




(d)

any other information required by the chief electoral officer to be
included.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1) (b), amounts accepted from
anonymous contributors must be reported separately.




(3)

For the purposes of subsection (1) (b), if the records of the recall
advertising sponsor indicate that a contributor made one or more
sponsorship contributions that, in total, have a value of more than
the applicable amount under section 245 (3) of the

Election Act

, the report under this section must include the following:




(a)

the full name and address of the individual;




(b)

the value of each sponsorship contribution and the date on which it
was received.




(4)

For anonymous contributions, the report under this section must
include the dates on which the contributions were received, the
amounts received on each date and, if applicable, the events at which
they were received.




(5)

A report under this section must be accompanied by a signed
declaration of the individual recall advertising sponsor or, in the
case of an organization, by a principal officer of the organization
or, if there are no principal officers, by a principal member of the
organization, as to the accuracy of the report.




(6)

[Repealed 2018-41-41.]






Disclosure report after calendar year




148.01

(1)


A recall advertising sponsor must file with the chief electoral
officer a recall advertising disclosure report in accordance with this
section and section 148.02 if the recall advertising sponsor sponsors
in a calendar year non-petition period recall advertising that has a
total value of greater than the applicable amount under section 244
(1) of the

Election Act

.




(2)

A recall advertising disclosure report under subsection (1) must be
filed within 28 days after the end of the calendar year.




(3)

Subsection (1) does not apply if the value of all recall advertising
sponsored, and the amount of all sponsorship contributions accepted,
by the recall advertising sponsor in the calendar year was previously
reported in one or more disclosure reports filed under section 146.19
or 147.






Contents of disclosure report after calendar year




148.02

(1)


A recall advertising disclosure report filed under section 148.01 must
be in the form specified by the chief electoral officer and must
include the following information:




(a)

the value of the non-petition period recall advertising sponsored by
the recall advertising sponsor in the applicable calendar year,
reported




(i)

by electoral district, and




(ii)

by class as required by regulation;




(b)

the amount of the sponsorship contributions accepted by the recall
advertising sponsor in the applicable calendar year, whether or not
previously reported by the recall advertising sponsor, in relation to
all recall advertising sponsored by the recall advertising sponsor in
the applicable calendar year, reported in accordance with subsections
(2) to (4) of this section;




(c)

any amount of the recall advertising sponsor's assets, other than
assets received by way of sponsorship contributions reported under
paragraph (b), that was used to pay for all recall advertising
sponsored by the recall advertising sponsor in the applicable calendar
year;




(d)

any other information required by the chief electoral officer to be
included.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1) (b), amounts accepted from
anonymous contributors must be reported separately.




(3)

For the purposes of subsection (1) (b), if the records of the recall
advertising sponsor indicate that a contributor made one or more
sponsorship contributions that, in total, have a value of more than
the applicable amount under section 245 (3) of the

Election Act

, the report under this section must include the following:




(a)

the full name and address of the individual;




(b)

the value of each sponsorship contribution and the date on which it
was received.




(4)

For anonymous sponsorship contributions, the report under this section
must include the dates on which the sponsorship contributions were
received, the amounts received on each date and, if applicable, the
events at which they were received.




(5)

A report under this section must be accompanied by a signed
declaration of the individual recall advertising sponsor or, in the
case of an organization, by a principal officer of the organization
or, if there are no principal officers, by a principal member of the
organization, as to the accuracy of the report.






Late filing of reports




149

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), a recall advertising sponsor that fails to
file a report under section 146.18, 146.19, 147 or 148.01, as
applicable, with the chief electoral officer within the time period
established by the applicable section or by a court under section 151
may file the report on payment to the chief electoral officer of a
late filing fee equivalent to the applicable amount under section 220
(5) (b) of the

Election Act

.




(2)

A report under subsection (1) must be filed within 30 days after the
end of the time period established by section 146.18, 146.19, 147 or
148.01, as applicable, or before a later date permitted by a court
under section 151.






Failure to file reports




150

(1)


Unless relief is granted by a court on an application under
section 151 commenced before the end of the late filing period
under section 149, if a recall advertising disclosure report is not
filed with the chief electoral officer before the end of that period,
the recall advertising sponsor




(a)

is deregistered as a recall advertising sponsor under Division 3 of
this Part, and




(b)

must pay to the chief electoral officer a penalty equivalent to the
applicable amount under section 220 (5) (b) of the

Election Act

for each day after the last day on which it may be filed under
section 149 up to the date on which it is in fact filed.




(2)

In the case of a recall advertising sponsor that is an unincorporated
organization, the members of the organization are jointly and
separately liable to pay the penalty under subsection (1) (b).




(3)

The penalties referred to in subsection (1) are effective as follows:




(a)

if no application under section 151 is made in respect of the recall
advertising sponsor, at the end of the period for making such an
application;




(b)

if, on the final determination of an application under
section 151, the court refuses to grant relief from the penalty,
at the time of that determination.






Court order for relief from filing obligations




151

(1)


A recall advertising sponsor subject to section 149 or 150 may apply
to the Supreme Court in accordance with this section for relief from
an obligation to file a recall advertising disclosure report or from a
penalty in relation to the filing of such a report.




(2)

An application may be made only within the applicable period under
section 132 (2).




(3)

Within 7 days after it is filed, the petition commencing an
application must be served on the chief electoral officer.




(4)

The applicant and the chief electoral officer are parties to the
application.




(5)

On the hearing of an application, the court may do the following:




(a)

relieve the recall advertising sponsor from the obligation to file the
report, or from specified obligations in relation to the report, if
the court considers that, in relation to the non-compliance, the
recall advertising sponsor acted in good faith;




(b)

grant an extension of the time for filing the report without payment
of a late filing fee under section 149 if




(i)

the application is commenced before the end of the time for filing
without penalty, and




(ii)

the court considers that, in relation to the non-compliance, the
recall advertising sponsor acted in good faith;




(c)

grant an extension of the time for filing the report, subject to
payment of the late filing fee under section 149, if the court
considers that, in relation to the non-compliance, the recall
advertising sponsor acted in good faith;




(d)

make any order the court considers appropriate to secure compliance
with this Act and the regulations to the extent the court considers
reasonable in the circumstances;




(e)

refuse to grant an extension or other relief.






Obligation to maintain records




152


An individual or organization who is or has been a recall advertising
sponsor must




(a)

ensure that the records required for the purposes of this Part are
maintained in British Columbia, and




(b)

retain those records for at least 5 years, or a longer period
specified by the chief electoral officer, from the date of filing of a
report required under this Division in relation to those records.






Publication of recall advertising disclosure report




153

(1)


As soon as practicable after a recall advertising disclosure report
under this Division is received, the chief electoral officer must
publish the report and, if applicable, identify the relevant recall
petition.




(2)

The chief electoral officer may publish a report under subsection (1)
on an Elections BC authorized internet site.




(3)

A report published under this section must not include the address of
a contributor.




Division 5 — Monetary Penalties for Recall Advertising Sponsors





Monetary penalties for failing to register




153.01

(1)


Within 7 days of the chief electoral officer making a determination of
non-compliance with section 143 by an individual or organization, the
chief electoral officer must notify the individual or organization of
the non-compliance and the related penalty.




(2)

Unless relief is granted by a court on an application under section
153.09, if the chief electoral officer gives notice under subsection
(1) of this section, the individual or organization must pay to the
chief electoral officer a penalty in the amount of up to $10 000, as
determined by the chief electoral officer.






Monetary penalties respecting making and using sponsorship
contributions




153.02

(1)


Within 7 days of the chief electoral officer making a determination of
non-compliance with section 146.08 by a person, the chief electoral
officer must notify the person of the non-compliance and the related
penalty.




(2)

Unless relief is granted by a court on an application under section
153.09, if the chief electoral officer gives notice under subsection
(1) of this section, the person must pay to the chief electoral
officer a penalty in the amount of up to double the sponsorship
contribution, as determined by the chief electoral officer.






Monetary penalties respecting contributor confirmation and consent




153.03

(1)


Within 7 days of the chief electoral officer making a determination of
non-compliance with section 146.09 by a recall advertising sponsor,
the chief electoral officer must notify the person of the
non-compliance and the related penalty.




(2)

Unless relief is granted by a court on an application under section
153.09, if the chief electoral officer gives notice under subsection
(1) of this section, the recall advertising sponsor must pay to the
chief electoral officer a penalty in the amount of up to double the
contribution, as determined by the chief electoral officer.






Monetary penalties respecting sponsorship contribution limits




153.04

(1)


Within 7 days of the chief electoral officer making a determination of
non-compliance with section 146.10 by an eligible individual or a
recall advertising sponsor, the chief electoral officer must notify
the eligible individual or recall advertising sponsor of the
non-compliance and the related penalty.




(2)

Unless relief is granted by a court on an application under section
153.09, if the chief electoral officer gives notice under subsection
(1) of this section, the eligible individual or recall advertising
sponsor must pay to the chief electoral officer a penalty in the
amount of up to double the amount that the sponsorship contribution
exceeds the sponsorship contribution limit set in section 146.10, as
determined by the chief electoral officer.






Monetary penalties respecting sponsorship contributions




153.05

(1)


Within 7 days of the chief electoral officer making a determination of
non-compliance with section 146.11 by an individual or organization,
the chief electoral officer must notify the person of the
non-compliance and the related penalty.




(2)

Unless relief is granted by a court on an application under section
153.09, if the chief electoral officer gives notice under subsection
(1) of this section, the individual or organization must pay to the
chief electoral officer a penalty in the amount of up to double the
sponsorship contribution, as determined by the chief electoral
officer.






Monetary penalties respecting anonymous sponsorship contributions




153.06

(1)


Within 7 days of the chief electoral officer making a determination of
non-compliance with section 146.12 by a recall advertising sponsor,
the chief electoral officer must notify the recall advertising sponsor
of the non-compliance and the related penalty.




(2)

Unless relief is granted by a court on an application under section
153.09, if the chief electoral officer gives notice under subsection
(1) of this section, the recall advertising sponsor must pay to the
chief electoral officer a penalty in the amount of up to double the
amount that the sponsorship contribution exceeds the anonymous
sponsorship contribution limit set in section 146.12, as determined by
the chief electoral officer.






Monetary penalties respecting return of sponsorship contributions




153.07

(1)


Within 7 days of the chief electoral officer making a determination of
non-compliance with section 146.13 by a recall advertising sponsor,
the chief electoral officer must notify the recall advertising sponsor
of the non-compliance and the related penalty.




(2)

Unless relief is granted by a court on an application under section
153.09, if the chief electoral officer gives notice under subsection
(1) of this section, the recall advertising sponsor must pay to the
chief electoral officer a penalty in the amount of up to double the
sponsorship contribution, as determined by the chief electoral
officer.






Monetary penalties respecting sponsorship contributions over specific
amount




153.08

(1)


Within 7 days of the chief electoral officer making a determination of
non-compliance with section 146.14 by an eligible individual or a
recall advertising sponsor, the chief electoral officer must notify
the eligible individual or recall advertising sponsor of the
non-compliance and the related penalty.




(2)

Unless relief is granted by a court on an application under section
153.09, if the chief electoral officer gives notice under subsection
(1) of this section, the eligible individual or recall advertising
sponsor must pay to the chief electoral officer a penalty in the
amount of up to double the amount that the sponsorship contribution
exceeds the amount described in section 146.14, as determined by the
chief electoral officer.






Court order for relief respecting recall advertising sponsor
registration and sponsorship contributions




153.09

(1)


A person who is subject to a monetary penalty under sections 153.01 to
153.08 may apply to the Supreme Court in accordance with this section
for relief from the monetary penalty for non-compliance with the
applicable section.




(2)

An application may be made only within 30 days after the chief
electoral officer, under the applicable section, notifies the person
of the non-compliance and related penalty.




(3)

The petition commencing an application must be served on the chief
electoral officer within 7 days after the petition is filed and the
chief electoral officer is a party to the application.




(4)

On the hearing of an application, the court may do the following:




(a)

grant relief from a penalty if the court considers that, in relation
to the non-compliance, the person has acted in good faith;




(b)

make any order the court considers appropriate to secure compliance
with the applicable section to the extent the court considers
reasonable in the circumstances;




(c)

refuse to grant relief.






Publication of names




153.10

(1)


The chief electoral officer must




(a)

publish on an Elections BC authorized internet site




(i)

the names of persons on whom the chief electoral officer has imposed a
monetary penalty under sections 153.01 to 153.08,




(ii)

the section under which the chief electoral officer has imposed the
monetary penalty, and




(iii)

the amount of the monetary penalty, and




(b)

have notice of the information described in paragraph (a) published in
the Gazette.




(2)

The information published under subsection (1) (a) must continue to be
published on an Elections BC authorized internet site until one year
after final voting day for the next general election.




(3)

Publication of the notice under subsection (1) (b) must take place as
soon as practicable after the chief electoral officer imposes the
monetary penalty.




Part 9 — Offences





Prosecution of organizations and their directors and agents




154

(1)


An act or thing done or omitted by an officer, director, employee or
agent of an organization within the scope of the individual's
authority to act on behalf of the organization is deemed to be an act
or thing done or omitted by the organization.




(2)

If an organization commits an offence under this Act, an officer,
director, employee or agent of the organization who authorizes,
permits or acquiesces in the offence commits the same offence, whether
or not the organization is convicted of the offence.




(3)

A prosecution for an offence under this Act may be brought against an
unincorporated organization in the name of the organization and, for
the purposes of the prosecution, the unincorporated organization is
deemed to be a person.






Defence of due diligence




155


An individual or organization is not guilty of an offence under this
Act if the individual or organization exercised due diligence to
prevent the commission of the offence.






Signature and vote buying offences




156

(1)


An individual or organization must not pay, give, lend or procure an
inducement for any of the following purposes:




(a)

to induce an individual to sign a petition or refrain from signing a
petition;




(b)

to reward an individual for having signed a petition or having
refrained from signing a petition;




(c)

to induce an individual to vote or refrain from voting in an
initiative vote;




(d)

to induce an individual to vote or refrain from voting for or against
an initiative;




(e)

to reward an individual for having voted or refrained from voting as
described in paragraph (c) or (d);




(f)

to procure or induce an individual to attempt to procure a particular
result in an initiative vote;




(g)

to procure or induce an individual to attempt to procure the vote of a
voter or the failure of a voter to vote.




(2)

An individual must not accept an inducement




(a)

to sign a petition or refrain from signing a petition,




(b)

as a reward for having signed a petition or refrained from signing a
petition,




(c)

to vote or refrain from voting,




(d)

to vote or refrain from voting for or against an initiative, or




(e)

as a reward for having voted or refrained from voting as described in
paragraph (c) or (d).




(3)

An individual or organization must not advance, pay or otherwise
provide an inducement, or cause an inducement to be provided, knowing
or with the intent that it is to be used for any of the acts
prohibited by this section.




(4)

An individual must not offer, agree or promise to do anything
otherwise prohibited by this section.




(5)

An individual or organization prohibited from doing something by this
section must not do the prohibited act directly, indirectly or by
another individual or organization on behalf of the individual or
organization who is subject to the prohibition.




(6)

An individual or organization who contravenes this section commits an
offence and is liable to a fine of not more than $10 000 or
imprisonment for a term not longer than 2 years, or both.






Intimidation offences




157

(1)


An individual or organization must not intimidate an individual for
any of the following purposes:




(a)

to persuade or compel an individual to sign a petition or refrain from
signing a petition;




(b)

to punish an individual for having signed a petition or having
refrained from signing a petition;




(c)

to persuade or compel an individual to vote or refrain from voting in
an initiative vote;




(d)

to persuade or compel an individual to vote or refrain from voting for
or against an initiative;




(e)

to punish an individual for having voted or having refrained from
voting as described in paragraph (c) or (d).




(2)

An individual or organization must not, by abduction, duress or
fraudulent means, do any of the following:




(a)

impede, prevent or otherwise interfere with an individual's right to
sign a petition;




(b)

compel, persuade or otherwise cause an individual to sign a petition
or refrain from signing a petition;




(c)

impede, prevent or otherwise interfere with an individual's right to
vote in an initiative vote;




(d)

compel, persuade or otherwise cause an individual to vote or refrain
from voting in an initiative vote;




(e)

compel, persuade or otherwise cause an individual to vote or refrain
from voting for or against an initiative.




(3)

An individual or organization prohibited from doing something by this
section must not do the prohibited act directly, indirectly or by
another individual or organization on behalf of the individual or
organization who is subject to the prohibition.




(4)

An individual or organization who contravenes this section commits an
offence and is liable to one or more of the penalties referred to in
section 156 (6).






Wrongful signing and voting




158

(1)


An individual who does any of the following commits an offence:




(a)

signs a petition or votes in an initiative vote when not entitled to
do so;




(b)

signs the same petition more than once or votes more than once in the
same initiative vote;




(c)

signs a petition, or obtains a ballot for an initiative vote, in the
name of another individual, whether the name is of a living or dead
individual or of a fictitious individual;




(d)

contravenes section 105 (2) or 109 (6) of the

Election Act

in relation to an initiative vote.




(2)

An individual who commits an offence under subsection (1) is liable to
one or more of the penalties referred to in section 156 (6).






Offences in relation to canvassing for signatures




159

(1)


An individual or organization who does any of the following commits an
offence:




(a)

canvasses for signatures on a petition when not entitled to do so
under this Act;




(b)

contravenes section 6 (2) or (3) or 22 (2) or (3) respecting
inducement in relation to canvassing for signatures on a petition;




(c)

falsely represents that a document is a petition issued by the chief
electoral officer or a copy of one issued by the chief electoral
officer;




(d)

canvasses for signatures on a petition in a time period other than
that during which the petition may be signed under this Act;




(e)

does not comply with any regulations respecting the conduct of
individuals who canvass for signatures on petitions.




(2)

An individual or organization who contravenes this section commits an
offence and is liable to a fine of not more than $5 000 or
imprisonment for a term not longer than one year, or both.






Offences in relation to financing




160

(1)


An individual or organization who does any of the following commits an
offence:




(a)

consents to be appointed as a financial agent under this Act when not
entitled to be appointed to the position;




(b)

contravenes section 34, 64 (1) or 95, respecting the obligations of a
financial agent;




(c)

contravenes




(i)

section 41, 42 or 43, regarding making or accepting an initiative
petition contribution, or




(ii)

section 68 or 69, regarding making or accepting an initiative vote
contribution;




(iii)

[Repealed 2018-41-48.]




(d)

contravenes section 44 regarding prohibited initiative petition
contributions, section 70 regarding prohibited initiative vote
contributions or section 119 regarding prohibited recall
contributions;




(e)

contravenes section 46 regarding incurring initiative petition
expenses, section 72 regarding incurring initiative vote expenses
or section 121 regarding incurring recall expenses;




(f)

contravenes




(i)

section 47 by incurring an initiative petition expense in excess of
the applicable expenses limit, unless relief has been granted under
section 54,




(ii)

section 73 by incurring an initiative vote expense in excess of the
applicable expenses limit, unless relief has been granted under
section 80, or




(iii)

section 122 by incurring a recall expense in excess of the applicable
expenses limit, unless relief has been granted under section 129;




(g)

contravenes section 112 respecting loans and guarantees for loans;




(h)

contravenes section 116, 116.02, 116.04 or 117 regarding making or
accepting a recall contribution.




(2)

An individual or organization who commits an offence under subsection
(1) is liable to a fine of not more than $10 000 or imprisonment for a
term not longer than one year, or both.






Offences in relation to initiative or recall advertising and promotion




161

(1)


An individual or organization who does any of the following commits an
offence:




(a)

contravenes section 87 respecting a restriction on initiative
advertising or section 136 respecting a restriction on recall
advertising;




(b)

contravenes section 88 respecting identification of the sponsor of
initiative advertising or section 137 respecting identification of the
sponsor of recall advertising;




(c)

contravenes section 89 respecting a rate charged for initiative
advertising or section 138 respecting a rate charged for recall
advertising;




(d)

contravenes section 90 respecting initiative advertising on general
voting day for an initiative vote;




(e)

contravenes section 91 respecting a restriction on activities near the
office of a district electoral officer or a voting place for an
initiative vote;




(f)

contravenes section 92 respecting the publication of an initiative
opinion survey;




(g)

contravenes section 93 respecting an advertising limit;




(h)

contravenes section 96 or 143 respecting the requirement to be
registered as a sponsor;




(i)

fails to record information as required by section 98 (2) or 145 (2);




(j)

contravenes section 137.01 respecting identification of the sponsor of
activities;




(k)

contravenes section 146.05 respecting loans and guarantees for loans;




(l)

contravenes section 146.08, 146.09, 146.10, 146.11, 146.12, 146.13 or
146.14 respecting sponsorship contributions.




(2)

An individual or organization who commits an offence under subsection
(1) is liable to a fine of not more than $10 000 or imprisonment for a
term not longer than one year, or both.






Offences in relation to false or misleading information




162

(1)


An individual or organization who does either of the following commits
an offence:




(a)

provides false or misleading information when required or authorized
by this Act or the regulations to provide information;




(b)

makes a false or misleading statement or declaration when required by
this Act or the regulations to make a statement or declaration.




(2)

An individual or organization is not guilty of an offence under this
section if, at the time the information was given or the statement or
declaration was made, the individual or organization did not know that
it was false or misleading and, with the exercise of reasonable
diligence, could not have known that it was false or misleading.




(3)

An individual or organization who commits an offence under this
section is liable to a fine of not more than $10 000 or
imprisonment for a term not longer than 2 years, or both.






Offence in relation to use of information




163

(1)


An individual or organization who uses personal information referred
to in section 168 except as authorized by that section commits an
offence.




(2)

An individual or organization who commits an offence under this
section is liable to a fine of not more than $10 000 or
imprisonment for a term not longer than 2 years, or both.






Penalties under this Part are in addition to any others




164


Any penalty under this Part is in addition to and not in place of any
other penalty to which an individual or organization may be liable in
respect of the same matter.






Limitation




165


A prosecution under this Act must be commenced within one year of the
time when the subject matter of the prosecution arose.




Part 10 — General





Delivery of notices




166


A notice that is required or authorized under this Act to be given to
an individual or organization is deemed to be given if it is delivered
to the applicable address provided for this purpose under this Act.






Publication of adjusted amounts




166.01


The chief electoral officer must




(a)

publish on an Elections BC authorized internet site the adjusted
amounts established under sections 116.04, 146.10 and 146.15,




(b)

have notice of the adjusted amounts under those sections published in
the Gazette,




(c)

in the case of an adjusted amount under section 146.10, give notice of
the adjusted amount to each registered recall advertising sponsor, and




(d)

in the case of an adjusted amount under section 146.15 in respect of a
petition period, give notice of the adjusted amount to the authorized
participants for the recall petition and each registered recall
advertising sponsor.






Filing documents with chief electoral officer




167


Where this Act or a regulation requires or authorizes a document or
other record to be filed with or submitted to the chief electoral
officer, this may be done by delivering the record




(a)

to the office of the chief electoral officer during its regular office
hours, or




(b)

to the chief electoral officer or an agent of the chief electoral
officer at another place and time authorized by the chief electoral
officer.






Access to and use of information in records




168

(1)


A record that is required or authorized under this Act to be filed
with or submitted to the chief electoral officer must, subject to this
section, be available for public inspection in the office of the chief
electoral officer during its regular office hours for one year from
the time it is filed or submitted.




(2)

Unless the chief electoral officer permits earlier inspection,




(a)

an application for the issuance of a petition and, in the case of an
application for the issuance of an initiative petition, the draft Bill
submitted with it, are not available for public inspection until after
the chief electoral officer has determined whether or not the petition
is to be issued, and




(b)

a petition that has been submitted to the chief electoral officer is
not available for public inspection until the chief electoral officer
has determined whether the requirements of section 7 or 23, as
applicable, have been met.




(3)

If a record is available for public inspection in the office of the
chief electoral officer, subject to this section a member of the
public may obtain a copy of the record on payment of the reasonable
costs of reproduction.




(4)

If a record available for public inspection as referred to in
subsection (1) contains information that is and is identified as the
residential address or telephone number of a specific individual, on
request of that individual, that information must be obscured in the
documents available for public inspection and, for these purposes, the
chief electoral officer may make a copy rather than the original
available for public inspection.




(5)

Where this Act permits or requires the disclosure, public inspection
or other use of or access to records containing personal information
within the meaning of the

Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act

, the personal information may be used only for the purposes of this
Act or for a purpose referred to in section 275 (3) of the

Election Act

.




(6)

The chief electoral officer or a member of the staff of the chief
electoral officer may require an individual who wishes to inspect or
obtain a copy of a record referred to in subsection (5) to




(a)

satisfy the official that any purpose for which personal information
is to be used is permitted by that subsection, and




(b)

provide a signed statement that the individual, and any individual or
organization on whose behalf the first individual is inspecting or
obtaining the record, will not use personal information included in
the record except for a purpose permitted under this Act.




(7)

The minister responsible for the administration of the

Information Management Act

may require that, after the end of the retention period, records under
the control of the chief electoral officer be archived




(a)

in the digital archives established by the

Information Management Act

, or




(b)

in the museum archives of government established by the

Museum Act

.




(7.1)

For the purposes of subsection (7), the chief electoral officer must
give notice to the minister responsible for the administration of the

Information Management Act

before the end of each retention period.




(8)

To the extent of any inconsistency or conflict with the

Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act

, this Act applies despite that Act.






Enforcement of Act by chief electoral officer




169

(1)


The chief electoral officer may conduct




(a)

audits of the accounts of financial agents and authorized
participants, and




(b)

investigations of any matter that might constitute a contravention of
this Act or a regulation under this Act.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1), the chief electoral officer or a
representative of the chief electoral officer may inspect and make
copies of the records of an individual or organization




(a)

who is or was a financial agent at any time during the previous 5
years,




(b)

who is or was an authorized participant at any time during the
previous 5 years,




(c)

who is or was required to file an initiative advertising disclosure
report at any time during the previous 5 years, or




(d)

who is or was required to file a recall advertising disclosure report
at any time during the previous 5 years,




(3)

Section 276 (3) to (6) of the

Election Act

applies in relation to the authority under subsection (2).




(4)

Sections 278 and 279 of the

Election Act

, respecting the enforcement of that Act and penalties under that Act,
apply for the purposes of enforcing this Act or a penalty under this
Act.






Emergencies and other extraordinary circumstances




170

(1)


The chief electoral officer may, by specific or general order, make
exceptions to this Act and the regulations under this Act in
accordance with the purposes of this Act if, in the opinion of the
chief electoral officer, this is necessary because of an emergency, a
mistake or extraordinary circumstances in relation to proceedings
under this Act.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the chief electoral officer may make
orders extending a time period or establishing a new date in place of
one set under this Act and giving any other direction the chief
electoral officer considers appropriate in relation to this.






General regulations




171

(1)


On the recommendation of the minister after consultation with the
chief electoral officer, the Lieutenant Governor in Council may make
regulations referred to in section 41 of the

Interpretation Act

.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), on the recommendation of the minister
after consultation with the chief electoral officer, the Lieutenant
Governor in Council may make regulations as follows:




(a)

governing the duties and powers of the chief electoral officer under
this Act;




(b)

setting out procedures for the verification of signatures and
governing eligibility to sign a petition under this Act;




(c)

governing the conduct of individuals who canvass for signatures on
petitions;




(d)

[Repealed 2018-41-51.]




(e)

prescribing fees for the purposes of this Act.




(f) to (k)

[Repealed 2018-41-51.]




(3)

Without limiting subsection (1) or (2), the chief electoral officer
may make regulations as follows:




(a)

prescribing forms for the purposes of this Act and prescribing
information that may be included on them;




(b)

for the purposes of section 1 (3) (c), prescribing anything else;




(c)

specifying expenses that are not to be included when determining
whether an individual or organization has complied with an expenses
limit;




(d)

prescribing information that must be included in




(i)

an application under section 97, or




(ii)

an initiative advertising disclosure report under section 100;




(e)

prescribing classes of advertising for the purposes of sections 101
(1) (a) and 148 (1) (a);




(f)

specifying recall expenses that are to be included as personal recall
expenses under section 114 (4) (f);




(g)

exempting from the requirements of section 137 classes of recall
advertising that may reasonably be considered clothing, a novelty item
or an item intended for personal use;




(h)

prescribing information that must be included in




(i)

an application under section 144, or




(ii)

a recall advertising disclosure report under section 148.






Additional powers of the chief electoral officer




172

(1)


The powers, duties and functions given to the chief electoral officer
under the

Election Act

apply for the purposes of this Act except that if there is a conflict
or inconsistency between the

Election Act

and this Act, this Act applies.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the chief electoral officer may make
regulations in relation to an initiative vote that the chief electoral
officer considers necessary or advisable for the purposes of applying
the

Election Act

to the initiative vote.






Appropriation




173


Administrative costs incurred by the chief electoral officer under
this Act must be paid out of the consolidated revenue fund.




