




Securities Transfer Act
[SBC 2007] CHAPTER 10


Assented to March 29, 2007




Part 1 â€” Interpretation and General Provisions





Definitions




1

(1)


In this Act:



"adverse claim"

means a claim that




(a)

the claimant has a property interest in a financial asset, and




(b)

it is a violation of the rights of the claimant for another person to
hold, transfer or deal with the financial asset;



"appropriate person"

means,




(a)

with respect to an endorsement, the person specified by a security
certificate or by an effective special endorsement to be entitled to
the security,




(b)

with respect to an instruction, the registered owner of an
uncertificated security,




(c)

with respect to an entitlement order, the entitlement holder,




(d)

in the case of a person referred to in paragraph (a), (b) or (c) being
deceased, that person's successor taking under the law, other than
this Act, or that person's personal representative acting for the
estate of the deceased person, and




(e)

in the case of a person referred to in paragraph (a), (b) or (c)
lacking capacity, that person's guardian or other similar
representative who has power under the law, other than this Act, to
transfer the security or other financial asset;



"bearer form"

means, in respect of a certificated security, a form in which the
security is payable to the bearer of the security certificate
according to the security certificate's terms but not by reason of an
endorsement;


"broker"
has the same meaning as "dealer" in the

Securities Act

;



"certificated security"

means a security that is represented by a certificate;



"clearing agency"

means a person




(a)

who carries on a business or activity as a clearing agency or clearing
house within the meaning of the

Securities Act

or the securities regulatory law of another province or territory in
Canada,




(b)

who is recognized or otherwise regulated as a clearing agency or
clearing house by the British Columbia Securities Commission or by a
securities regulatory authority of another province or territory in
Canada, and




(c)

who is a securities and derivatives clearing house for the purposes of
section 13.1 of the

Payment Clearing and Settlement Act

(Canada) or whose clearing and settlement system is designated under
Part I of that Act;



"communicate"

means




(a)

send a signed writing, or




(b)

transmit information by any other means agreed to by the person
transmitting the information and the person receiving the information;


"control"
has the meaning set out in sections 23 to 26;



"corporation"

means any body corporate whether or not it is incorporated under the
laws of British Columbia;


"delivery"
, with respect to a certificated or uncertificated security, has the
meaning set out in section 68;


"effective"
, in relation to an endorsement, instruction or entitlement order, has
the meaning set out in sections 29 to 32;



"endorsement"

means a signature that, alone or accompanied by other words, is made
on a security certificate in registered form or on a separate document
for the purpose of assigning, transferring or redeeming the security
or granting a power to assign, transfer or redeem the security;



"entitlement holder"

means a person identified in the records of a securities intermediary
as the person having a security entitlement against the securities
intermediary and includes a person who acquires a security entitlement
by virtue of section 95 (1) (b) or (c);



"entitlement order"

means a notice communicated to a securities intermediary directing the
transfer or redemption of a financial asset to which the entitlement
holder has a security entitlement;



"financial asset"

means, except as otherwise provided in sections 10 to 16,




(a)

a security,




(b)

an obligation of a person that




(i)

is, or is of a type, dealt in or traded on financial markets, or




(ii)

is recognized in any other market or area in which it is issued or
dealt in as a medium for investment,




(c)

a share, participation or other interest in a person, or in property
or an enterprise of a person, that,




(i)

is, or is of a type, dealt in or traded on financial markets, or




(ii)

is recognized in any other market or area in which it is issued or
dealt in as a medium for investment,




(d)

any property that is held by a securities intermediary for another
person in a securities account if the securities intermediary has
expressly agreed with the other person that the property is to be
treated as a financial asset under this Act, or




(e)

a credit balance in a securities account, unless the securities
intermediary has expressly agreed with the person for whom the account
is maintained that the credit balance is not to be treated as a
financial asset under this Act;


"genuine"
means free of forgery or counterfeiting;


"government"
means




(a)

the Crown in right of Canada or in right of British Columbia or
another province of Canada,




(b)

the government of a territory in Canada,




(c)

a municipality in Canada, or




(d)

the government of a foreign country or of any political subdivision of
it;



"in collusion"

means in concert, by conspiratorial arrangement or by agreement for
the purpose of violating a person's rights in respect of a financial
asset;



"instruction"

means a notice communicated to the issuer of an uncertificated
security that directs that the transfer of the security be registered
or that the security be redeemed;


"issuer"
,




(a)

with respect to a registration of a transfer of a security, means a
person on whose behalf transfer books are maintained, and




(b)

with respect to an obligation on or a defence to a security, includes




(i)

a person who places or authorizes the placing of the person's name on
a security certificate, other than as authenticating trustee,
registrar, transfer agent or the like, to evidence




(A)

a share, participation or other interest in the person's property or
in an enterprise, or




(B)

the person's duty to perform an obligation represented by the security
certificate,




(ii)

a person who creates a share, participation or other interest in the
person's property or in an enterprise, or undertakes an obligation,
that is an uncertificated security,




(iii)

a person who directly or indirectly creates a fractional interest in
the person's rights or property, if the fractional interest is
represented by a security certificate,




(iv)

a guarantor, to the extent of the guarantor's guarantee, whether or
not the guarantor's obligation is noted on a security certificate, and




(v)

a person who becomes responsible for, or in place of, another person
described as an issuer in this definition;


"knowledge"
means actual knowledge;


"overissue"
means the issue of securities in excess of the amount that the issuer
is authorized to issue;


"person"
means




(a)

an individual, including an individual in the individual's capacity as
trustee, executor, administrator or other representative,




(b)

a sole proprietorship,




(c)

a partnership,




(d)

an unincorporated association,




(e)

an unincorporated syndicate,




(f)

an unincorporated organization,




(g)

a trust, including a business trust,




(h)

a corporation,




(i)

a government or agency of it, or




(j)

any other legal or commercial entity;



"protected purchaser"

means a purchaser of a certificated or uncertificated security, or of
an interest in the security, who




(a)

gives value,




(b)

does not have notice of any adverse claim to the security, and




(c)

obtains control of the security;


"purchase"
means a taking by sale, discount, negotiation, mortgage, hypothec,
pledge, security interest, issue or reissue, gift or any other
voluntary transaction that creates an interest in property;


"purchaser"
means a person who takes by purchase;



"registered form"

means, in respect of a certificated security, a form in which




(a)

the security certificate specifies a person entitled to the security,
and




(b)

a transfer of the security may be registered on books maintained for
that purpose by or on behalf of the issuer, or the security
certificate states that it may be so registered;



"representative"

means any person empowered to act for another, including an agent, an
officer of a corporation or association and a trustee, executor or
administrator of an estate;



"secured party"

has the same meaning as in the

Personal Property Security Act

;



"securities account"

means an account to which a financial asset is or may be credited in
accordance with an agreement under which the person maintaining the
account undertakes to treat the person for whom the account is
maintained as entitled to exercise the rights that constitute the
financial asset;



"securities intermediary"

means,




(a)

a clearing agency, or




(b)

a person, including a broker, bank or trust company, who, in the
ordinary course of the person's business, maintains securities
accounts for others and is acting in that capacity;


"security"
means, except as otherwise provided in sections 10 to 16, an
obligation of an issuer or a share, participation or other interest in
an issuer or in property or an enterprise of an issuer




(a)

that is represented by a security certificate in bearer form or
registered form, or the transfer of which may be registered on books
maintained for that purpose by or on behalf of the issuer,




(b)

that is one of a class or series, or by its terms is divisible into a
class or series, of shares, participations, interests or obligations,
and




(c)

that




(i)

is, or is of a type, dealt in or traded on securities exchanges or
securities markets, or




(ii)

is a medium for investment and by its terms expressly provides that it
is a security for the purposes of this Act;



"security certificate"

means a certificate representing a security, but does not include a
certificate in electronic form;



"security entitlement"

means the rights and property interest of an entitlement holder with
respect to a financial asset that are specified in Part 6;



"security interest"

has the same meaning as in the

Personal Property Security Act

;



"unauthorized"

means, when used with reference to a signature or endorsement, a
signature or endorsement that is made without actual, implied or
apparent authority or that is forged;



"uncertificated security"

means a security that is not represented by a certificate;


"value"
means any consideration sufficient to support a simple contract and
includes an antecedent debt or liability.




(2)

As the context requires,
"financial asset"
means either the interest itself or the means by which a person's
claim to it is evidenced, including a certificated or uncertificated
security, a security certificate and a security entitlement.




(3)

The characterization of a person, business or transaction for the
purposes of this Act does not determine the characterization of the
person, business or transaction for the purposes of any other statute,
law, regulation or rule.






Meaning of valid security




2


A security is valid if it is issued in accordance with the applicable
law described in section 44 (1) and the constating provisions
governing the issuer.






Notice




3

(1)


For the purposes of this Act, a person has notice of a fact if




(a)

the person has knowledge of it,




(b)

the person has received a notice of it, or




(c)

information comes to the person's attention under circumstances in
which a reasonable person would take cognizance of it.




(2)

A person gives a notice to another person by taking such steps as may
be reasonably required to inform the other person in the ordinary
course, whether or not the other person comes to know of it.




(3)

A person receives a notice when




(a)

the notice comes to the person's attention,




(b)

in the case of a notice under a contract, the notice is duly delivered
to the place of business through which the contract was made, or




(c)

the notice is duly delivered to any other place held out by that
person as the place for receipt of those notices.




(4)

Notice, knowledge or a notice received by an organization is effective
for a particular transaction from the time when it is brought to the
attention of the individual conducting the transaction and, in any
event, from the time when it would have been brought to the attention
of that individual if the organization had exercised due diligence.




(5)

For the purpose of subsection (4), an organization exercises due
diligence if it maintains reasonable routines for communicating
significant information to the individual conducting the transaction
and there is reasonable compliance with those routines.




(6)

For the purpose of subsection (4), due diligence does not require an
individual acting for the organization to communicate information
unless




(a)

that communication is part of the individual's regular duties, or




(b)

the individual has reason to know of the transaction and that the
transaction would be materially affected by the information.






Obligation of good faith




4

(1)


Every contract to which this Act applies and every duty imposed by
this Act imposes an obligation of good faith in its performance or
enforcement.




(2)

In this section,
"good faith"
means honesty in fact and the observance of reasonable commercial
standards of fair dealing.






Variation of Act by agreement




5

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), the effect of provisions of this Act may be
varied by agreement.




(2)

The obligations of good faith, diligence, reasonableness and care
imposed by this Act may not be disclaimed by agreement, but the
parties may by agreement determine the standards by which the
performance of such obligations is to be measured so long as such
standards are not manifestly unreasonable.






Principles of law and equity apply




6


Except insofar as they are inconsistent with this Act, the principles
of law and equity supplement this Act and continue to apply, including




(a)

the law merchant,




(b)

the law relating to the capacity to contract, principal and agent,
estoppel, fraud, misrepresentation, duress, coercion and mistake, and




(c)

other validating or invalidating rules of law.






Clearing agency rules prevail




7


A rule adopted by a clearing agency governing rights and obligations
between the clearing agency and its participants or between
participants in the clearing agency is effective even if the rule
conflicts with this Act or the

Personal Property Security Act

and affects another person who does not consent to the rule.






Application to Crown




8


Nothing in this Act limits the application of the

Crown Proceeding Act

to the government of British Columbia.






Existing proceedings




9


This Act does not affect a legal proceeding that was commenced before
this section comes into force.




Part 2 â€” General Matters Concerning Securities and Other Financial
Assets



Division 1 â€” Classification of Obligations and Interests





Share or equity interest




10


A share or similar equity interest issued by a corporation, business
trust or similar entity is a security.






Mutual fund security




11

(1)


A mutual fund security is a security.




(2)

In this section:



"mutual fund security"

means a share, unit or similar equity interest issued by an open-end
mutual fund, but does not include an insurance policy, endowment
policy or annuity contract issued by an insurance company;



"open-end mutual fund"

means an entity that makes a distribution to the public of its shares,
units or similar equity interests and that carries on the business of
investing the consideration it receives for the shares, units or
similar equity interests it issues, all or substantially all of which
shares, units or similar equity interests are redeemable on the demand
of their holders or owners.






Interest in partnership or limited liability company




12

(1)


An interest in a partnership or limited liability company is not a
security unless




(a)

that interest is dealt in or traded on securities exchanges or in
securities markets,




(b)

the terms of that interest expressly provide that the interest is a
security for the purposes of this Act, or




(c)

that interest is a mutual fund security within the meaning of section
11.




(2)

An interest in a partnership or limited liability company is a
financial asset if it is held in a securities account.




(3)

In this section,
"limited liability company"
means an unincorporated association, other than a partnership, formed
under the laws of another jurisdiction, that grants to each of its
members limited liability with respect to the liabilities of the
association.






Bills of exchange and promissory notes




13


A bill of exchange or promissory note to which the

Bills of Exchange Act

(Canada) applies is not a security, but is a financial asset if it is
held in a securities account.






Depository bills and depository notes




14


A depository bill or depository note to which the

Depository Bills and Notes Act

(Canada) applies is not a security, but is a financial asset if it is
held in a securities account.






Clearing house option




15

(1)


A clearing house option or similar obligation is not a security, but
is a financial asset.




(2)

In this section,
"clearing house option"
has the same meaning as in the

Personal Property Security Act

.






Futures contract




16

(1)


A futures contract is not a security or a financial asset.




(2)

In this section,
"futures contract"
has the same meaning as in the

Personal Property Security Act

.




Division 2 â€” Acquisition of Financial Assets or Interests in Them





Acquisition of financial assets




17

(1)


A person acquires a security or an interest in a security under this
Act if




(a)

the person is a purchaser to whom a security is delivered under
section 68, or




(b)

the person acquires a security entitlement to the security under
section 95.




(2)

A person acquires a financial asset, other than a security, or an
interest in such a financial asset under this Act if the person
acquires a security entitlement to the financial asset.




(3)

A person who acquires a security entitlement to a security or other
financial asset has the rights specified in Part 6, but is a purchaser
of any security, security entitlement or other financial asset held by
a securities intermediary only to the extent provided in section 97.




(4)

Unless the context of another statute, law, regulation, rule or
agreement shows that a different meaning is intended, a person who is
required by that statute, law, regulation, rule or agreement to
transfer, deliver, present, surrender, exchange or otherwise put in
the possession of another person a security or other financial asset
satisfies that requirement by causing the other person to acquire an
interest in the security or other financial asset as set out in
subsection (1) or (2).




Division 3 â€” Notice of Adverse Claims





What constitutes notice of adverse claim




18


A person has notice of an adverse claim if




(a)

the person knows of the adverse claim,




(b)

the person is aware of facts sufficient to indicate that there is a
significant probability that the adverse claim exists and deliberately
avoids information that would establish the existence of the adverse
claim, or




(c)

the person has a duty, imposed by statute or regulation, to
investigate whether an adverse claim exists and the investigation, if
carried out, would establish the existence of the adverse claim.






Notice of transfer




19

(1)


Having knowledge that a financial asset, or an interest in a financial
asset, is being or has been transferred by a representative does not
impose any duty of inquiry into the rightfulness of the transaction
and is not notice of an adverse claim.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), a person has notice of an adverse claim if
that person knows that




(a)

a representative has transferred a financial asset, or an interest in
a financial asset, in a transaction, and




(b)

the transaction is, or the proceeds of the transaction are being used,




(i)

for the individual benefit of the representative, or




(ii)

otherwise in breach of a duty owed by the representative.






Delay




20


An act or event that creates a right to immediate performance of the
principal obligation represented by a security certificate, or that
sets a date on or after which a security certificate is to be
presented or surrendered for redemption or exchange, does not by
itself constitute notice of an adverse claim except in the case of a
transfer that takes place more than




(a)

one year after a date set for presentation or surrender for redemption
or exchange, or




(b)

6 months after a date set for payment of money against presentation or
surrender of the security certificate, if money was available for
payment on that date.






Statement on security certificate




21

(1)


A purchaser of a certificated security has notice of an adverse claim
if the security certificate,




(a)

whether in bearer form or registered form, has been endorsed "for
collection" or "for surrender" or for some other purpose not involving
a transfer, or




(b)

is in bearer form and has on it an unambiguous statement that it is
the property of a person other than the transferor.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1) (b), the mere writing of a name on
a security certificate does not by itself constitute an unambiguous
statement that the security certificate is the property of a person
other than the transferor.






Registration of financing statement




22


The registration of a financing statement under the

Personal Property Security Act

is not notice of an adverse claim.




Division 4 â€” Control of Financial Assets





Purchaser's control of certificated security




23

(1)


A purchaser has control of a certificated security that is in bearer
form if the certificated security is delivered to the purchaser.




(2)

A purchaser has control of a certificated security that is in
registered form if the certificated security is delivered to the
purchaser and




(a)

the security certificate is endorsed to the purchaser or in blank by
an effective endorsement, or




(b)

the security certificate is registered in the name of the purchaser at
the time of the original issue or registration of transfer by the
issuer.






Purchaser's control of uncertificated security




24

(1)


A purchaser has control of an uncertificated security if




(a)

the uncertificated security is delivered to the purchaser, or




(b)

the issuer has agreed that the issuer will comply with instructions
that are originated by the purchaser without the further consent of
the registered owner.




(2)

A purchaser to whom subsection (1) applies in relation to an
uncertificated security has control of the uncertificated security
even if the registered owner retains the right




(a)

to make substitutions for the uncertificated security,




(b)

to originate instructions to the issuer, or




(c)

to otherwise deal with the uncertificated security.






Purchaser's control of security entitlement




25

(1)


A purchaser has control of a security entitlement if




(a)

the purchaser becomes the entitlement holder,




(b)

the securities intermediary has agreed that it will comply with
entitlement orders that are originated by the purchaser without the
further consent of the entitlement holder, or




(c)

another person has control of the security entitlement on behalf of
the purchaser or, having previously obtained control of the security
entitlement, acknowledges that the person has control on behalf of the
purchaser.




(2)

A purchaser to whom subsection (1) applies in relation to a security
entitlement has control of the security entitlement even if the
entitlement holder retains the right




(a)

to make substitutions for the security entitlement,




(b)

to originate entitlement orders to the securities intermediary, or




(c)

to otherwise deal with the security entitlement.






Securities intermediary's control of security entitlement




26


If an interest in a security entitlement is granted by the entitlement
holder to the entitlement holder's own securities intermediary, the
securities intermediary has control of the security entitlement.






Agreement respecting control of uncertificated security




27

(1)


An issuer must not enter into an agreement of the kind referred to in
section 24 (1) (b) without the consent of the registered owner.




(2)

An issuer who has entered into an agreement of the kind referred to in
section 24 (1) (b) is not required to confirm the existence of the
agreement to another person unless requested to do so by the
registered owner.




(3)

An issuer is not required to enter into an agreement of the kind
referred to in section 24 (1) (b) even if the registered owner so
requests.






Agreement respecting control of security entitlement




28

(1)


A securities intermediary must not enter into an agreement of the kind
referred to in section 25 (1) (b) without the consent of the
entitlement holder.




(2)

A securities intermediary who has entered into an agreement of the
kind referred to in section 25 (1) (b) is not required to confirm the
existence of the agreement to another person unless requested to do so
by the entitlement holder.




(3)

A securities intermediary is not required to enter into an agreement
of the kind referred to in section 25 (1) (b) even if the entitlement
holder so requests.




Division 5 â€” Endorsements, Instructions and Entitlement Orders





Effectiveness of endorsement, instruction or entitlement order




29


An endorsement, instruction or entitlement order is effective if




(a)

it is made by the appropriate person,




(b)

it is made by a person who, in the case of an endorsement or
instruction, has the power under the law of agency to transfer the
security, or in the case of an entitlement order, has the power under
the law of agency to transfer the financial asset, on behalf of the
appropriate person, including,




(i)

in the case of an instruction referred to in section 24 (1) (b), the
person who has control of the uncertificated security, or




(ii)

in the case of an entitlement order referred to in section 25 (1) (b),
the person who has control of the security entitlement, or




(c)

the appropriate person has ratified it or is otherwise precluded from
asserting its ineffectiveness.






Effectiveness of endorsement, instruction or entitlement order made by
representative




30


An endorsement, instruction or entitlement order made by a
representative is effective even if




(a)

the representative has failed to comply with a controlling instrument
or with the law of the jurisdiction governing the representative's
rights and duties, including any law requiring the representative to
obtain court approval of the transaction, or




(b)

the representative's action in making the endorsement, instruction or
entitlement order or using the proceeds of the transaction is
otherwise a breach of duty owed by the representative.






Endorsement, instruction or entitlement order remains effective




31


If a security is registered in the name of or specially endorsed to a
person described as a representative, or if a securities account is
maintained in the name of a person described as a representative, an
endorsement, instruction or entitlement order made by the person is
effective even if the person is no longer serving in that capacity.






Date when effectiveness is determined




32

(1)


The effectiveness of an endorsement, instruction or entitlement order
is determined as of the date that the endorsement, instruction or
entitlement order is made.




(2)

An endorsement, instruction or entitlement order does not become
ineffective by reason of any later change of circumstances.




Division 6 â€” Warranties Applicable to Direct Holdings





Warranties on transfer of certificated security




33


A person who transfers a certificated security to a purchaser for
value warrants to the purchaser and, if the transfer is by
endorsement, also warrants to any subsequent purchaser, that




(a)

the security certificate is genuine and has not been materially
altered,




(b)

the transferor does not know of any fact that might impair the
validity of the security,




(c)

there is no adverse claim to the security,




(d)

the transfer does not violate any restriction on transfer,




(e)

if the transfer is by endorsement, the endorsement is made by the
appropriate person or, if the endorsement is by an agent, the agent
has actual authority to act on behalf of the appropriate person, and




(f)

the transfer is otherwise effective and rightful.






Warranties on transfer of uncertificated security




34

(1)


A person who originates an instruction for registration of transfer of
an uncertificated security to a purchaser for value warrants to the
purchaser that




(a)

the instruction is made by the appropriate person or, if the
instruction is made by an agent, the agent has actual authority to act
on behalf of the appropriate person,




(b)

the security is valid,




(c)

there is no adverse claim to the security, and




(d)

at the time that the instruction is presented to the issuer,




(i)

the purchaser will be entitled to the registration of transfer,




(ii)

the transfer will be registered by the issuer free from all liens,
security interests, restrictions and claims other than those specified
in the instruction,




(iii)

the transfer will not violate any restriction on transfer, and




(iv)

the transfer will otherwise be effective and rightful.




(2)

A person who transfers an uncertificated security to a purchaser for
value and does not originate an instruction in connection with the
transfer warrants to the purchaser that




(a)

the security is valid,




(b)

there is no adverse claim to the security,




(c)

the transfer does not violate any restriction on transfer, and




(d)

the transfer is otherwise effective and rightful.






Warranties on endorsement of security certificate




35


A person who endorses a security certificate warrants to the issuer
that




(a)

there is no adverse claim to the security, and




(b)

the endorsement is effective.






Warranties on instruction respecting uncertificated security




36


A person who originates an instruction for the registration of
transfer of an uncertificated security warrants to the issuer that




(a)

the instruction is effective, and




(b)

at the time that the instruction is presented to the issuer, the
purchaser will be entitled to the registration of transfer.






Warranties on presentation of security certificate




37


A person who presents a certificated security for the registration of
transfer or for payment or exchange warrants to the issuer that the
person is entitled to the registration, payment or exchange, but a
purchaser for value and without notice of adverse claims to whom
transfer is registered warrants to the issuer only that the person has
no knowledge of any unauthorized signature in a necessary endorsement.






Warranties by agent delivering certificated security




38


If




(a)

a person acts as agent of another person in delivering a certificated
security to a purchaser,




(b)

the identity of the principal was known to the person to whom the
security certificate was delivered, and




(c)

the security certificate delivered by the agent was received by the
agent from the principal or from another person at the direction of
the principal,


the person delivering the security certificate warrants, to the
purchaser, only that the delivering person has authority to act for
the principal and does not know of any adverse claim to the
certificated security.






Warranties on redelivery of security certificate




39


A secured party who redelivers a security certificate received, or
after payment and on order of the debtor delivers the security
certificate to another person, makes only the warranties of an agent
set out in section 38.






Broker's warranties




40

(1)


Except as otherwise provided in section 38, a broker acting for a
customer makes to the issuer and a purchaser the warranties set out in
sections 33 to 37.




(2)

A broker who delivers a security certificate to the broker's customer
makes to the customer the warranties set out in sectionÂ 33 and
has the rights and privileges of a purchaser provided under sections
33, 38 and 39.




(3)

A broker who causes the broker's customer to be registered as the
owner of an uncertificated security makes to the customer the
warranties set out in section 34 and has the rights and privileges of
a purchaser provided under section 34.




(4)

The warranties of and in favour of the broker acting as an agent are
in addition to applicable warranties given by and in favour of the
customer.




Division 7 â€” Warranties Applicable to Indirect Holdings





Warranties on entitlement order




41


A person who originates an entitlement order to a securities
intermediary warrants to the securities intermediary




(a)

that the entitlement order is made by the appropriate person or, if
the entitlement order is made by an agent, that the agent has actual
authority to act on behalf of the appropriate person, and




(b)

that there is no adverse claim to the security entitlement.






Warranties on security credited to securities account




42

(1)


A person who delivers a security certificate to a securities
intermediary for credit to a securities account makes to the
securities intermediary the warranties set out in section 33.




(2)

A person who originates an instruction with respect to an
uncertificated security directing that the uncertificated security be
credited to a securities account makes to the securities intermediary
the warranties set out in section 34.






Securities intermediary's warranties




43

(1)


If a securities intermediary delivers a security certificate to its
entitlement holder, the securities intermediary makes to the
entitlement holder the warranties set out in section 33.




(2)

If a securities intermediary causes its entitlement holder to be
registered as the owner of an uncertificated security, the securities
intermediary makes to the entitlement holder the warranties set out in
section 34.




Division 8 â€” Conflict of Laws





Law governing validity of security




44

(1)


The validity of a security is governed by the following laws:




(a)

if the issuer is incorporated under a law of Canada, the law, other
than the conflict of law rules, of Canada;




(b)

if the issuer is the Crown in right of Canada, the law, other than the
conflict of law rules, of Canada;




(c)

if the issuer is the Crown in right of a province in Canada, the law,
other than the conflict of law rules, of the province;




(d)

if the issuer is the Commissioner of a territory in Canada, the law,
other than the conflict of law rules, of the territory;




(e)

in any other case, the law, other than the conflict of law rules, of
the jurisdiction under which the issuer is incorporated or otherwise
organized.




(2)

The law, other than the conflict of law rules, of the issuer's
jurisdiction governs




(a)

the rights and duties of the issuer with respect to the registration
of transfer,




(b)

the effectiveness of the registration of transfer by the issuer,




(c)

whether the issuer owes any duties to an adverse claimant to a
security, and




(d)

whether an adverse claim can be asserted against a person




(i)

to whom the transfer of a certificated or uncertificated security is
registered, or




(ii)

who obtains control of an uncertificated security.




(3)

The following issuers may specify the law of another jurisdiction as
the law governing the matters referred to in subsection (2) (a) to
(d):




(a)

an issuer incorporated or otherwise organized under the law of British
Columbia;




(b)

the government of British Columbia.




(4)

Whether a security is enforceable against an issuer despite a defence
or defect described in sections 57 to 59 is governed by the following
laws:




(a)

if the issuer is incorporated under a law of Canada, the law, other
than the conflict of law rules, of the province or territory in Canada
in which the issuer has its registered office or head office;




(b)

if the issuer is the Crown in right of Canada, the law, other than the
conflict of law rules, of the issuer's jurisdiction;




(c)

if the issuer is the Crown in right of a province in Canada, the law,
other than the conflict of law rules, of the province;




(d)

if the issuer is the Commissioner of a territory in Canada, the law,
other than the conflict of law rules, of the territory;




(e)

in any other case, the law, other than the conflict of law rules, of
the jurisdiction under which the issuer is incorporated or otherwise
organized.




(5)

In this section,
"issuer's jurisdiction"
means the jurisdiction determined in accordance with the following
rules:




(a)

if the issuer is incorporated under a law of Canada, the province or
territory in Canada in which the issuer has its registered office or
head office or, if permitted by the law of Canada, another
jurisdiction specified by the issuer;




(b)

if the issuer is the Crown in right of Canada, the jurisdiction
specified by the issuer;




(c)

if the issuer is the Crown in right of a province in Canada, the
province or, if permitted by the law of that province, another
jurisdiction specified by the issuer;




(d)

if the issuer is the Commissioner of a territory in Canada, the
territory or, if permitted by the law of that territory, another
jurisdiction specified by the issuer;




(e)

in any other case, the jurisdiction under which the issuer is
incorporated or otherwise organized or, if permitted by the law of
that jurisdiction, another jurisdiction specified by the issuer.






Matters governed by law of securities intermediary's jurisdiction




45

(1)


The law, other than the conflict of law rules, of the securities
intermediary's jurisdiction governs




(a)

acquisition of a security entitlement from the securities
intermediary,




(b)

the rights and duties of the securities intermediary and entitlement
holder arising out of a security entitlement,




(c)

whether the securities intermediary owes any duty to a person who has
an adverse claim to a security entitlement, and




(d)

whether an adverse claim may be asserted against a person who




(i)

acquires a security entitlement from the securities intermediary, or




(ii)

purchases a security entitlement, or interest in it, from an
entitlement holder.




(2)

In this section,

"securities intermediary's jurisdiction"

means the jurisdiction determined in accordance with the following
rules:




(a)

if an agreement between a securities intermediary and the securities
intermediary's entitlement holder governing the securities account
expressly provides that a particular jurisdiction is the securities
intermediary's jurisdiction for the purposes of the law of that
jurisdiction, this Act or any provision of this Act, the jurisdiction
expressly provided for is the securities intermediary's jurisdiction;




(b)

if paragraph (a) does not apply and an agreement between the
securities intermediary and the securities intermediary's entitlement
holder governing the securities account expressly provides that the
agreement is governed by the law of a particular jurisdiction, that
jurisdiction is the securities intermediary's jurisdiction;




(c)

if neither paragraph (a) nor (b) applies and an agreement between a
securities intermediary and the securities intermediary's entitlement
holder governing the securities account expressly provides that the
securities account is maintained at an office in a particular
jurisdiction, that jurisdiction is the securities intermediary's
jurisdiction;




(d)

if none of the preceding paragraphs applies, the securities
intermediary's jurisdiction is the jurisdiction in which the office
identified in an account statement as the office serving the
entitlement holder's account is located;




(e)

if none of the preceding paragraphs applies, the securities
intermediary's jurisdiction is the jurisdiction in which the chief
executive office of the securities intermediary is located.




(3)

In determining a securities intermediary's jurisdiction, the following
matters are not to be taken into account:




(a)

the physical location of certificates representing financial assets;




(b)

if an entitlement holder has a security entitlement with respect to a
financial asset, the jurisdiction in which the issuer of the financial
asset is incorporated or otherwise organized;




(c)

the location of facilities for data processing or other record keeping
concerning the securities account.






Adverse claim governed by law of jurisdiction of security certificate




46


The law, other than the conflict of law rules, of the jurisdiction in
which a security certificate is located at the time of delivery
governs whether an adverse claim may be asserted against a person to
whom the security certificate is delivered.




Division 9 â€” Seizure





Seizure governed by laws respecting civil enforcement of judgments




47


Subject to any necessary modifications for the purposes of permitting
the operation of sections 48 to 51, the laws governing the civil
enforcement of judgments apply to seizures described in those
sections.






Seizure of interest in certificated security




48

(1)


Except as otherwise provided in subsection (2) and in section 51, the
interest of a judgment debtor in a certificated security may be seized
only by actual seizure of the security certificate by a sheriff.




(2)

A certificated security for which the security certificate has been
surrendered to the issuer may be seized by a sheriff serving a notice
of seizure on the issuer at the issuer's chief executive office.






Seizure of interest in uncertificated security




49


Except as otherwise provided in section 51, the interest of a judgment
debtor in an uncertificated security may be seized only by a sheriff
serving a notice of seizure on the issuer at the issuer's chief
executive office.






Seizure of interest in security entitlement




50


Except as otherwise provided in section 51, the interest of a judgment
debtor in a security entitlement may be seized only by a sheriff
serving a notice of seizure on the securities intermediary with whom
the judgment debtor's securities account is maintained.






Notice of seizure to secured party




51


The interest of a judgment debtor in any of the following may be
seized by a sheriff serving a notice of seizure on the secured party:




(a)

a certificated security for which the security certificate is in the
possession of a secured party;




(b)

an uncertificated security registered in the name of a secured party;




(c)

a security entitlement maintained in the name of a secured party.




Division 10 â€” Enforceability of Contracts and Rules of Evidence





Enforceability of contracts




52


A contract or modification of a contract for the sale or purchase of a
security is enforceable whether or not there is some writing signed or
record authenticated by a person against whom enforcement is sought.






Rules of evidence respecting certificated security




53

(1)


The evidentiary rules set out in this section apply to a legal
proceeding on a certificated security against the issuer of that
security.




(2)

Unless specifically denied in the pleadings, each signature on a
security certificate or in a necessary endorsement is admitted.




(3)

A signature on a security certificate is presumed to be genuine and
authorized, but, if the effectiveness of the signature is put in
issue, the burden of establishing that it is genuine and authorized is
on the party claiming under the signature.




(4)

If signatures on a security certificate are admitted or established,
the production of the security certificate entitles a holder to
recover on the security certificate unless the defendant establishes a
defence or defect that goes to the validity of the security.




(5)

If it is shown that a defence or defect that goes to the validity of
the security exists, the plaintiff has the burden of establishing that
the defence or defect cannot be asserted against




(a)

the plaintiff, or




(b)

a person under whom the plaintiff claims.




(6)

In this section:


"defendant"
includes respondent;


"plaintiff"
means a person attempting to recover on a security certificate in a
legal proceeding, whether described in that proceeding as a plaintiff,
appellant, claimant, petitioner, applicant or any other term.




Division 11 â€” Securities Intermediaries â€” Liability and Status as
Purchasers for Value





Securities intermediary's liability to adverse claimant




54

(1)


Subject to subsection (3), a securities intermediary who has
transferred a financial asset in accordance with an effective
entitlement order is not liable to a person having an adverse claim
to, or a security interest in, the financial asset.




(2)

Subject to subsection (3), a broker or other agent or bailee who has
dealt with a financial asset at the direction of a customer or
principal is not liable to a person having an adverse claim to, or a
security interest in, the financial asset.




(3)

A securities intermediary referred to in subsection (1) or a broker or
other agent or bailee referred to in subsection (2) is liable to a
person having an adverse claim to, or a security interest in, the
financial asset if the securities intermediary, broker or other agent
or bailee, as the case may be, did one or more of the following:




(a)

took the action described in subsection (1) or (2) after having been
served with an injunction, restraining order or other legal process
issued by a court of competent jurisdiction enjoining the securities
intermediary, broker or other agent or bailee, as the case may be,
from doing so and after having had a reasonable opportunity to obey or
otherwise abide by the injunction, restraining order or other legal
process;




(b)

acted in collusion with the wrongdoer in violating the rights of the
person who has the adverse claim or the person who has the security
interest;




(c)

in the case of a security certificate that has been stolen, acted with
notice of the adverse claim.






Securities intermediary as purchaser for value




55

(1)


A securities intermediary who receives a financial asset and
establishes a security entitlement to the financial asset in favour of
an entitlement holder is a purchaser for value of the financial asset.




(2)

A securities intermediary who acquires a security entitlement to a
financial asset from another securities intermediary acquires the
security entitlement for value if the securities intermediary
acquiring the security entitlement establishes a security entitlement
to the financial asset in favour of an entitlement holder.




Part 3 â€” Issue and Issuer





Terms of security




56

(1)


Even against a purchaser for value and without notice, the terms of a
certificated security include




(a)

the terms stated on the security certificate, and




(b)

any terms made part of the security by reference on the security
certificate to another instrument, indenture or other document or to a
statute, regulation, rule, order or the like, to the extent that those
terms do not conflict with the terms stated on the security
certificate.




(2)

A reference described in subsection (1) (b) does not by itself
constitute notice to a purchaser for value of a defect that goes to
the validity of the security, even if the security certificate
expressly states that a person accepting it admits notice.




(3)

The terms of an uncertificated security include those stated in any
instrument, indenture or other document or in a statute, regulation,
rule, order or the like under which the security is issued.






Enforcement of security




57

(1)


An unauthorized signature placed on a security certificate before or
in the course of issue is ineffective except that the signature is
effective in favour of a purchaser for value of the certificated
security if the purchaser is without notice of the lack of authority
and the signing has been done by




(a)

an authenticating trustee, registrar, transfer agent or other person
entrusted by the issuer with the signing of the security certificate
or of any similar security certificate or with the immediate
preparation for signing of any of those security certificates, or




(b)

an employee of the issuer, or of any persons referred to in paragraph
(a), entrusted with responsible handling of the security certificate.




(2)

Except as provided in subsection (3), a security issued with a defect
going to its validity is enforceable against the issuer if held by a
purchaser for value and without notice of the defect.




(3)

Subsection (2) does not apply to a security issued by a government or
agency of it unless




(a)

there has been substantial compliance with the legal requirements
governing the issue, or




(b)

the issuer has received all or a substantial part of the consideration
for the issue as a whole or for the particular security and the
purpose of the issue is one for which the issuer has power to borrow
money or issue the security.






Lack of genuineness of certificated security




58


Except as otherwise provided in section 57 (1), lack of genuineness of
a certificated security is a complete defence, even against a
purchaser for value and without notice of the lack of genuineness.






Other defences




59


All other defences of the issuer of a security that are not referred
to in sections 56 to 58, including non-delivery and conditional
delivery of a security, are ineffective against a purchaser for value
who has taken the security without notice of the particular defence.






Right to cancel contract




60


Nothing in sections 56 to 59 affects the right of a party to a "when,
as and if issued" contract or a "when distributed" contract to cancel
the contract in the event of a material change in the character of the
security that is the subject of the contract or in the plan or
arrangement under which the security is to be issued or distributed.






Staleness as notice of defect or defence




61

(1)


After an act or event that creates a right to immediate performance of
the principal obligation represented by a certificated security or
that sets a date on or after which the security is to be presented or
surrendered for redemption or exchange, a purchaser is deemed to have
notice of any defect in the security's issue or of any defence of the
issuer,




(a)

if




(i)

the act or event requires that, on presentation or surrender of the
security certificate, money be paid, a certificated security be
delivered or a transfer of an uncertificated security be registered,




(ii)

the money or security is available on the date set for payment or
exchange, and




(iii)

the purchaser takes delivery of the security more than one year after
the date referred to in subparagraph (ii), or




(b)

if




(i)

the act or event is not one to which paragraph (a) applies, and




(ii)

the purchaser takes delivery of the security more than 2 years after
the date on which performance became due or the date set for
presentation or surrender.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply to a call that has been revoked.






Effect of issuer's restriction on transfer




62


A restriction on the transfer of a security imposed by the issuer,
even if otherwise lawful, is ineffective against a person without
knowledge of the restriction unless




(a)

the security is a certificated security and the restriction is noted
conspicuously on the security certificate, or




(b)

the security is an uncertificated security and the registered owner
has been given a notice of the restriction by a person required to
give such notice in order to make the restriction effective.






Completion of security certificate




63

(1)


If a security certificate contains the signatures necessary to the
security's issue or transfer but is incomplete in any other respect,




(a)

any person may complete the security certificate by filling in the
blanks in accordance with the person's authority, and




(b)

even if any of the blanks are incorrectly filled in, the security
certificate as completed is enforceable by a purchaser who took the
security certificate for value and without notice of the
incorrectness.




(2)

A complete security certificate that has been improperly altered, even
if fraudulently, remains enforceable, but only according to its
original terms.






Rights and duties of issuer respecting registered owners




64

(1)


Before due presentation for registration of transfer of a certificated
security in registered form or the receipt of an instruction
requesting registration of transfer of an uncertificated security, an
issuer or indenture trustee may treat the registered owner as the
person exclusively entitled




(a)

to vote,




(b)

to receive notices,




(c)

to receive any interest, dividend or other payments, and




(d)

to otherwise exercise all the rights and powers of an owner.




(2)

Nothing in this Act affects the liability of the registered owner of a
security for a call, assessment or the like.






Warranties by person signing security certificate




65

(1)


A person signing a security certificate as authenticating trustee,
registrar, transfer agent or the like warrants to a purchaser for
value of the certificated security, if the purchaser is without notice
of a particular defect in respect of that security, that




(a)

the security certificate is genuine,




(b)

the person's own participation in the issue of the security is within
the person's capacity and within the scope of the authority received
by the person from the issuer, and




(c)

the person has reasonable grounds to believe that the certificated
security is in the form and within the amount the issuer is authorized
to issue.




(2)

Unless otherwise agreed, a person signing a security certificate under
subsection (1) does not assume responsibility for the validity of the
security in any respect other than that set out in subsection (1).






Issuer's lien




66


A lien in favour of an issuer on a certificated security is valid
against a purchaser only if the right of the issuer to the lien is
noted conspicuously on the security certificate.






Overissue




67

(1)


Except as otherwise provided in subsections (2) and (3), the
provisions of this Act that make a security enforceable against an
issuer despite a defence or defect or that compel a security's issue
or reissue do not apply to the extent that the application of such
provision would result in an overissue.




(2)

If an identical security not constituting an overissue is reasonably
available for purchase, a person entitled to issue of a security, or a
person entitled to enforce a security against an issuer despite a
defence or defect as provided under section 57, 58 or 59 or under a
similar law of another jurisdiction, may compel the issuer to purchase
the security and deliver it, if certificated, or register its
transfer, if uncertificated, against surrender of any security
certificate the person holds.




(3)

If an identical security not constituting an overissue is not
reasonably available for purchase, a person entitled to issue of a
security, or a person entitled to enforce a security against an issuer
despite a defence or defect as provided under section 57, 58 or 59 or
under a similar law of another jurisdiction, may recover from the
issuer the price that the last purchaser for value paid for the
security with interest from the date of the person's demand.




(4)

An overissue is deemed not to have occurred if appropriate action has
cured the overissue.




Part 4 â€” Transfer of Certificated and Uncertificated Securities



Division 1 â€” Delivery and Rights of Purchaser





Delivery of security




68

(1)


Delivery of a certificated security to a purchaser occurs when




(a)

the purchaser acquires possession of the security certificate,




(b)

another person, other than a securities intermediary, either




(i)

acquires possession of the security certificate on behalf of the
purchaser, or




(ii)

having previously acquired possession of the security certificate,
acknowledges that the person holds the security certificate for the
purchaser, or




(c)

a securities intermediary acting on behalf of the purchaser acquires
possession of the security certificate, the security certificate is in
registered form and the security certificate is




(i)

registered in the name of the purchaser,




(ii)

payable to the order of the purchaser, or




(iii)

specially endorsed to the purchaser by an effective endorsement and
has not been endorsed to the securities intermediary or in blank.




(2)

Delivery of an uncertificated security to a purchaser occurs when




(a)

the issuer registers the purchaser as the registered owner, on the
original issue or the registration of transfer, or




(b)

another person, other than a securities intermediary, either




(i)

becomes the registered owner of the uncertificated security on behalf
of the purchaser, or




(ii)

having previously become the registered owner, acknowledges that the
person holds the uncertificated security for the purchaser.






Rights of purchaser




69

(1)


Except as otherwise provided in subsections (2) and (3), a purchaser
of a certificated or uncertificated security acquires all rights in
the security that the transferor had or had power to transfer.




(2)

A purchaser of a limited interest in a security acquires rights only
to the extent of the interest purchased.




(3)

A purchaser of a certificated security who as a previous holder had
notice of an adverse claim does not improve that purchaser's position
by virtue of taking from a protected purchaser.






Protected purchaser




70


A protected purchaser, in addition to acquiring the rights of a
purchaser, also acquires the purchaser's interest in the security free
of any adverse claim.




Division 2 â€” Endorsements and Instructions





Form of endorsement




71

(1)


An endorsement may be in blank or special.




(2)

An endorsement in blank includes an endorsement to bearer.




(3)

For an endorsement to be a special endorsement, the endorsement must
specify to whom the security is to be transferred or who has power to
transfer the security.




(4)

A holder may convert an endorsement in blank to a special endorsement.






Endorsement of part of security certificate




72


An endorsement of a security certificate, if the endorsement purports
to be in respect of only some of the units represented by the
certificate, is effective to the extent of the endorsement if the
units are intended by the issuer to be separately transferable.






When endorsement constitutes transfer of security




73


An endorsement of a security certificate, whether special or in blank,
does not constitute a transfer of the security




(a)

until the delivery of the security certificate on which the
endorsement appears, or




(b)

if the endorsement is on a separate document, until the delivery of
both




(i)

the security certificate, and




(ii)

the document on which the endorsement appears.






Endorsement missing




74


If a security certificate in registered form has been delivered to a
purchaser without a necessary endorsement, the purchaser may become a
protected purchaser only when the endorsement is supplied, but against
the transferor, the transfer is complete on delivery and the purchaser
has a specifically enforceable right to have any necessary endorsement
supplied.






Notice of adverse claim on endorsement




75


A purported endorsement of a security certificate in bearer form may
constitute notice of an adverse claim to the security certificate, but
the purported endorsement does not otherwise affect any right that the
holder has.






Obligations of endorser




76


Unless otherwise agreed, a person making an endorsement makes only the
warranties set out in sections 33 and 35 and does not warrant that the
security will be honoured by the issuer.






Completion of instruction




77


If an instruction has been originated by the appropriate person but is
incomplete in any other respect, any person may complete the
instruction in accordance with the person's authority and the issuer
may rely on the instruction as completed, even if it has been
completed incorrectly.






Obligations of person originating instruction




78


Unless otherwise agreed, a person originating an instruction makes
only the warranties set out in sections 34 and 36 and does not warrant
that the security will be honoured by the issuer.




Division 3 â€” Signature Guarantees and Other Requisites for Registration
of Transfer





Warranties by guarantor of endorser's signature




79


A person who guarantees a signature of an endorser of a security
certificate warrants that, at the time of signing,




(a)

the signature was genuine,




(b)

the signer was the appropriate person to endorse or, if the signature
is by an agent, the agent had actual authority to act on behalf of the
appropriate person, and




(c)

the signer had legal capacity to sign.






Warranties by guarantor of signature of originator of instruction




80

(1)


A person who guarantees a signature of the originator of an
instruction warrants that, at the time of signing,




(a)

the signature was genuine,




(b)

if the person specified in the instruction as being the registered
owner was, in fact, the registered owner, the signer was the
appropriate person to originate the instruction or, if the signature
is by an agent, the agent had actual authority to act on behalf of the
appropriate person, and




(c)

the signer had legal capacity to sign.




(2)

A person who guarantees a signature of the originator of an
instruction does not by that guarantee warrant that the person who is
specified in the instruction as the registered owner is in fact the
registered owner.






Warranties by special guarantor of signature of originator of
instruction




81


A person who specially guarantees the signature of an originator of an
instruction makes the warranties of a signature guarantor under
section 80 and also warrants that, at the time that the instruction is
presented to the issuer,




(a)

the person specified in the instruction as the registered owner of the
uncertificated security will be the registered owner, and




(b)

the transfer of the uncertificated security requested in the
instruction will be registered by the issuer free from all liens,
security interests, restrictions and claims other than those specified
in the instruction.






Warranty respecting rightfulness of transfer by guarantor




82

(1)


A guarantor under section 79 or 80 or a special guarantor under
section 81 does not otherwise warrant the rightfulness of the
transfer.




(2)

A person who guarantees an endorsement of a security certificate makes
the warranties of a signature guarantor under sectionÂ 79 and also
warrants the rightfulness of the transfer in all respects.




(3)

A person who guarantees an instruction that requests the transfer of
an uncertificated security makes the warranties of a special signature
guarantor under section 81 and also warrants the rightfulness of the
transfer in all respects.






Guarantee may not be condition to registration of transfer




83


An issuer must not require a special guarantee of signature, a
guarantee of endorsement or a guarantee of instruction as a condition
to the registration of transfer.






Liability of guarantor, endorser or originator




84

(1)


The warranties under sections 79 to 82 are made to a person taking or
dealing with the security in reliance on the guarantee and the
guarantor is liable to the person for any loss resulting from any
breach of those warranties.




(2)

An endorser or an originator of an instruction whose signature,
endorsement or instruction has been guaranteed is liable to a
guarantor for any loss suffered by the guarantor resulting from any
breach of the warranties of the guarantor.






Purchaser's right to requisites for registration of transfer




85

(1)


Unless otherwise agreed, the transferor of a security must, on demand,
supply the purchaser with proof of authority to transfer or with any
other requisite necessary to obtain registration of the transfer of
the security.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), if the transfer is not for value, a transferor
need not comply with a demand made under subsection (1) unless the
purchaser pays the necessary expenses.




(3)

If the transferor fails within a reasonable time to comply with the
demand made under subsection (1), the purchaser may reject or rescind
the transfer.




Part 5 â€” Registration





Duty of issuer to register transfer




86

(1)


If a certificated security in registered form is presented to an
issuer with a request to register a transfer of the certificated
security or an instruction is presented to an issuer with a request to
register a transfer of an uncertificated security, the issuer must
register the transfer as requested if




(a)

under the terms of the security, the proposed transferee is eligible
to have the security registered in that person's name,




(b)

the endorsement or instruction is made by the appropriate person or by
an agent who has actual authority to act on behalf of the appropriate
person,




(c)

reasonable assurance is given that the endorsement or instruction is
genuine and authorized,




(d)

any applicable law relating to the collection of taxes has been
complied with,




(e)

the transfer does not violate any restriction on transfer imposed by
statute or by the issuer in accordance with sectionÂ 62,




(f)

in the case of a demand made under section 88 that the issuer not
register a transfer,




(i)

the demand has not become effective under section 88, or




(ii)

the issuer has complied with section 89, but legal process has not
been obtained or an indemnity bond has not been provided to the issuer
in accordance with section 90, and




(g)

the transfer is rightful or is to a protected purchaser.




(2)

If, under subsection (1), an issuer is under a duty to register a
transfer of a security, the issuer is liable to a person presenting a
certificated security or an instruction for registration, or to that
person's principal, for any loss resulting from unreasonable delay in
registration or the failure or refusal to register the transfer.






Assurances respecting endorsement or instruction




87

(1)


An issuer may require the following assurance that each necessary
endorsement or each instruction is genuine and authorized:




(a)

in all cases, a guarantee of the signature of the person making the
endorsement or originating the instruction, including, in the case of
an instruction, reasonable assurance of identity;




(b)

if the endorsement is made or the instruction is originated by an
agent, appropriate assurance of actual authority to act;




(c)

if the endorsement is made or the instruction is originated by a
fiduciary or successor referred to in paragraph (d) or (e) of the
definition of "appropriate person" in section 1 (1), appropriate
evidence of appointment or incumbency;




(d)

if there is more than one fiduciary or successor referred to in
paragraph (d) or (e) of the definition of "appropriate person" in
section 1 (1), reasonable assurance that all who are required to sign
have done so;




(e)

if the endorsement is made or the instruction is originated by a
person not referred to in paragraph (b), (c) or (d) of this
subsection, assurance appropriate to the case corresponding as nearly
as may be to the assurance required by paragraph (b), (c) or (d).




(2)

An issuer may elect to require reasonable assurance beyond that
specified in this section.




(3)

In this section:



"appropriate evidence of appointment or incumbency"

means,




(a)

in the case of a fiduciary appointed or qualified by a court, a
document issued by or under the direction or supervision of the court
or an officer of the court and dated within 60 days before the date of
presentation for transfer, and




(b)

in any other case,




(i)

a copy of a document showing the appointment,




(ii)

a certificate certifying the appointment issued by or on behalf of a
person reasonably believed by the issuer to be a responsible person,
or




(iii)

in the absence of a document or certificate referred to in
subparagraph (i) or (ii), other evidence that the issuer reasonably
considers appropriate;


"fiduciary"
means any person acting in a fiduciary capacity, and includes a
personal representative acting for the estate of a deceased person;


"guarantee"
means a guarantee signed by or on behalf of a person reasonably
believed by the issuer to be a responsible person.




(4)

For the purposes of the definition of "guarantee" in subsection (3),
an issuer may adopt any standards with respect to responsibility so
long as those standards are not manifestly unreasonable.






Demand that issuer not register transfer




88

(1)


A person who is the appropriate person to make an endorsement or to
originate an instruction may demand that the issuer not register a
transfer of a security by communicating a notice to the issuer setting
out




(a)

the identity of the registered owner,




(b)

the issue of which the security is a part, and




(c)

an address of the person making the demand to which communications may
be sent.




(2)

A demand made under subsection (1) becomes effective when the issuer
has had a reasonable opportunity to act on the demand, having regard
to the time and manner of receipt of the demand by the issuer.






Duty of issuer respecting demand to not register transfer




89

(1)


If, after a demand made under section 88 becomes effective, a
certificated security in registered form is presented to an issuer
with a request to register a transfer or an instruction is presented
to an issuer with a request to register a transfer of an
uncertificated security, the issuer must promptly give a notice as
described in subsection (2) to the following persons:




(a)

the person who initiated the demand, at the address provided in the
demand;




(b)

the person who presented the security for the registration of transfer
or originated the instruction requesting the registration of transfer.




(2)

A notice given by an issuer under subsection (1) must state




(a)

that the certificated security has been presented for the registration
of transfer or the instruction for the registration of transfer of the
uncertificated security has been received,




(b)

that a demand that the issuer not register a transfer had previously
been received, and




(c)

that the issuer will withhold registration of transfer for a period of
time stated in the notice in order to provide the person who initiated
the demand an opportunity to obtain legal process or to provide an
indemnity bond referred to in section 90.




(3)

The period of time that may be provided for under subsection (2) (c)
must not exceed 30 days from the date the notice was given and the
issuer may specify a shorter period of time in the notice so long as
the shorter period of time being specified is not manifestly
unreasonable.






Liability of issuer respecting demand to not register transfer




90

(1)


An issuer is not liable, to a person who initiated a demand under
section 88 that the issuer not register a transfer, for any loss that
the person suffers as a result of the registration of a transfer in
accordance with an effective endorsement or instruction if the person
who initiated the demand does not, within the time stated in the
issuer's notice given under section 89, either




(a)

obtain an appropriate restraining order, injunction or other process
from a court of competent jurisdiction enjoining the issuer from
registering the transfer, or




(b)

provide the issuer with an indemnity bond sufficient in the issuer's
judgment to protect the issuer and any transfer agent, registrar or
other agent of the issuer involved from any loss that those persons
may suffer by refusing to register the transfer.




(2)

Nothing in subsection (1) or in section 88 or 89 relieves an issuer
from liability for registering a transfer under an endorsement or
instruction that was not effective.






Wrongful registration of transfer




91

(1)


Except as otherwise provided in section 93, an issuer is liable for
wrongful registration of transfer if




(a)

the issuer has registered a transfer of a security to a person not
entitled to the security, and




(b)

the transfer was registered by the issuer




(i)

under an ineffective endorsement or instruction,




(ii)

after a demand that the issuer not register a transfer became
effective under section 88 and the issuer did not comply with section
89,




(iii)

after the issuer had been served with an injunction, restraining order
or other legal process referred to in section 90 enjoining the issuer
from registering the transfer and the issuer had a reasonable
opportunity to obey or otherwise abide by the injunction, restraining
order or other legal process, or




(iv)

acting in collusion with the wrongdoer.




(2)

An issuer who is liable for the wrongful registration of transfer
under subsection (1) must, on demand, provide the person entitled to
the security with




(a)

a like certificated or uncertificated security, as the case may be,
and




(b)

any payments or distributions that the person did not receive as a
result of the wrongful registration.




(3)

If the provision of a security under subsection (2) would result in an
overissue, the issuer's liability to provide the person with a like
security is governed by section 67.




(4)

Except as otherwise provided in subsection (1) or in any applicable
law of Canada or of any province or territory of Canada relating to
the collection of taxes, an issuer is not liable to an owner or other
person suffering loss as a result of the registration of transfer of a
security if the registration was made under an effective endorsement
or instruction.






Replacement of lost, destroyed or wrongfully taken security
certificate




92

(1)


If an owner of a certificated security, whether in registered form or
bearer form, claims that the security certificate has been lost,
destroyed or wrongfully taken, the issuer must issue a new security
certificate if the owner




(a)

so requests before the issuer has notice that the lost, destroyed or
wrongfully taken security certificate has been acquired by a protected
purchaser,




(b)

provides the issuer with an indemnity bond sufficient in the issuer's
judgment to protect the issuer from any loss that the issuer may
suffer by issuing a new certificate, and




(c)

satisfies any other reasonable requirements imposed by the issuer.




(2)

If, after the issue of a new security certificate, a protected
purchaser of the original security certificate presents the original
security certificate for the registration of transfer, the issuer




(a)

must register the transfer unless the registration would result in an
overissue, in which case the issuer's liability is governed by section
67,




(b)

may exercise the rights the issuer may have under the indemnity bond
referred to in subsection (1) (b), and




(c)

may recover the new security certificate from a person to whom it was
issued or from any person, other than a protected purchaser, taking
under that person.






Obligation to notify issuer of lost, destroyed or wrongfully taken
security certificate




93


An owner of a security may not assert against the issuer a claim for
wrongful registration of transfer under section 91 or a claim to a new
security certificate under section 92 if




(a)

a security certificate has been lost, apparently destroyed or
wrongfully taken and the owner fails to give a notice to the issuer of
that fact within a reasonable time after the owner has notice of it,
and




(b)

the issuer registers a transfer of the security before receiving a
notice of the loss, apparent destruction or wrongful taking of the
security certificate.






Obligation of authenticating trustee, registrar, transfer agent or
other agent




94


A person acting as authenticating trustee, registrar, transfer agent
or other agent for an issuer in the registration of a transfer of the
issuer's securities, in the issue of new security certificates or
uncertificated securities or in the cancellation of surrendered
security certificates has the same obligation to the holder or owner
of a certificated or uncertificated security with regard to the
particular function performed as the issuer has in regard to that
function.




Part 6 â€” Security Entitlements





Acquisition of security entitlement




95

(1)


Except as otherwise provided in subsections (3) and (4), a person
acquires a security entitlement if a securities intermediary




(a)

indicates by book entry that a financial asset has been credited to
the person's securities account,




(b)

receives a financial asset from the person or acquires a financial
asset for the person and, in either case, accepts it for credit to the
person's securities account, or




(c)

becomes obligated under another statute, law, regulation or rule to
credit a financial asset to the person's securities account.




(2)

If a condition of subsection (1) has been met, a person has a security
entitlement even if the securities intermediary does not itself hold
the financial asset.




(3)

A person is to be treated as holding a financial asset directly rather
than as having a security entitlement with respect to the financial
asset if a securities intermediary holds the financial asset for that
person and the financial asset




(a)

is registered in the name of, payable to the order of or specially
endorsed to that person, and




(b)

has not been endorsed to the securities intermediary or in blank.




(4)

Issuance of a security is not establishment of a security entitlement.






Protection of entitlement holders from adverse claim




96


A legal proceeding based on an adverse claim to a financial asset,
however framed, may not be brought against a person who acquires a
security entitlement under section 95 for value and without notice of
the adverse claim.






Property interest of entitlement holders in financial asset




97

(1)


To the extent necessary for a securities intermediary to satisfy all
security entitlements with respect to a particular financial asset,
all interests in that financial asset held by the securities
intermediary




(a)

are held by the securities intermediary for the entitlement holders,




(b)

are not the property of the securities intermediary, and




(c)

are not subject to claims of creditors of the securities intermediary,
except as otherwise provided in section 105.




(2)

An entitlement holder's property interest with respect to a particular
financial asset under subsection (1) is a proportionate property
interest in all interests in that financial asset held by the
securities intermediary, without regard to




(a)

the time that the entitlement holder acquired the security
entitlement, or




(b)

the time that the securities intermediary acquired the interest in
that financial asset.




(3)

An entitlement holder's property interest with respect to a particular
financial asset under subsection (1) may be enforced against the
securities intermediary only by the exercise of the entitlement
holder's rights under sections 99 to 102.




(4)

An entitlement holder's property interest with respect to a particular
financial asset under subsection (1) may be enforced against a
purchaser of the financial asset, or interest in it, only if




(a)

bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings have been initiated by or against
the securities intermediary,




(b)

the securities intermediary does not have sufficient interests in the
financial asset to satisfy the security entitlements of all of its
entitlement holders to that financial asset,




(c)

the securities intermediary violated its obligations under section 98
by transferring the financial asset, or interest in it, to the
purchaser, and




(d)

the purchaser is not protected under subsection (7).




(5)

For the purposes of subsection (4), a trustee or other liquidator
acting on behalf of all entitlement holders having security
entitlements with respect to a particular financial asset may recover
the financial asset, or interest in it, from the purchaser.




(6)

If the trustee or other liquidator elects not to pursue the right
provided under subsection (5), an entitlement holder whose security
entitlement remains unsatisfied has the right to recover the
entitlement holder's interest in the financial asset from the
purchaser.




(7)

A legal proceeding based on the entitlement holder's property interest
with respect to a particular financial asset under subsection (1),
however framed, may not be brought against any purchaser of a
financial asset, or interest in it, who,




(a)

gives value,




(b)

obtains control or possession, and




(c)

does not act in collusion with the securities intermediary in
violating the securities intermediary's obligations under section 98.






Duty of securities intermediary respecting financial asset




98

(1)


A securities intermediary must promptly obtain and then maintain a
financial asset in a quantity corresponding to the aggregate of all
security entitlements that the securities intermediary has established
in favour of its entitlement holders with respect to that financial
asset.




(2)

The securities intermediary may maintain the financial assets referred
to in subsection (1) directly or through one or more other securities
intermediaries.




(3)

Except to the extent otherwise agreed to by its entitlement holder, a
securities intermediary may not grant any security interests in a
financial asset it is obligated to maintain under subsection (1).




(4)

A securities intermediary satisfies the duty imposed under subsection
(1) if




(a)

the securities intermediary acts with respect to the duty as agreed to
by the entitlement holder and the securities intermediary, or




(b)

in the absence of an agreement referred to in paragraph (a), the
securities intermediary exercises due care in accordance with
reasonable commercial standards to obtain and maintain the financial
asset.




(5)

This section does not apply to a clearing agency that is itself the
obligor of an option or similar obligation to which its entitlement
holders have security entitlements.






Duty of securities intermediary respecting payments and distributions




99

(1)


A securities intermediary must take action to obtain a payment or
distribution made by the issuer of a financial asset.




(2)

A securities intermediary is obligated to its entitlement holder for a
payment or distribution made by the issuer of a financial asset if the
payment or distribution is received by the securities intermediary.




(3)

A securities intermediary satisfies the duty imposed under subsection
(1) if




(a)

the securities intermediary acts with respect to the duty as agreed to
by the entitlement holder and the securities intermediary, or




(b)

in the absence of an agreement referred to in paragraph (a), the
securities intermediary exercises due care in accordance with
reasonable commercial standards to attempt to obtain the payment or
distribution.






Duty of securities intermediary to exercise rights




100

(1)


A securities intermediary must exercise rights with respect to a
financial asset if directed to do so by an entitlement holder.




(2)

A securities intermediary satisfies the duty imposed under subsection
(1) if




(a)

the securities intermediary acts with respect to the duty as agreed to
by the entitlement holder and the securities intermediary, or




(b)

in the absence of an agreement referred to in paragraph (a), the
securities intermediary either




(i)

places the entitlement holder in a position to exercise the rights
directly, or




(ii)

exercises due care in accordance with reasonable commercial standards
to follow the direction of the entitlement holder.






Duty of securities intermediary to comply with entitlement order




101

(1)


A securities intermediary must comply with an entitlement order if




(a)

the entitlement order is originated by the appropriate person,




(b)

the securities intermediary has had a reasonable opportunity to assure
itself that the entitlement order is genuine and authorized, and




(c)

the securities intermediary has had a reasonable opportunity to comply
with the entitlement order.




(2)

If a securities intermediary transfers a financial asset under an
ineffective entitlement order, the securities intermediary must




(a)

re-establish a security entitlement in favour of the person entitled
to it, and




(b)

pay or credit any payments or distributions that the person did not
receive as a result of the wrongful transfer.




(3)

If a securities intermediary does not re-establish a security
entitlement in accordance with subsection (2), the securities
intermediary is liable to the entitlement holder for damages.




(4)

A securities intermediary satisfies the duty imposed under subsection
(1) if




(a)

the securities intermediary acts with respect to the duty as agreed to
by the entitlement holder and the securities intermediary, or




(b)

in the absence of an agreement referred to in paragraph (a), the
securities intermediary exercises due care in accordance with
reasonable commercial standards to comply with the entitlement order.






Duty of securities intermediary respecting entitlement holder's
direction




102

(1)


A securities intermediary must act at the direction of an entitlement
holder




(a)

to change a security entitlement into another available form of
holding for which the entitlement holder is eligible, or




(b)

to cause the financial asset to be transferred to a securities account
of the entitlement holder with another securities intermediary.




(2)

A securities intermediary satisfies the duty imposed under subsection
(1) if




(a)

the securities intermediary acts with respect to the duty as agreed to
by the entitlement holder and the securities intermediary, or




(b)

in the absence of an agreement referred to in paragraph (a), the
securities intermediary exercises due care in accordance with
reasonable commercial standards to follow the direction of the
entitlement holder.






Duties of securities intermediary â€” general




103

(1)


If the substance of a duty imposed on a securities intermediary under
section 98, 99, 100, 101 or 102 is the subject of another statute,
regulation or rule, compliance with that other statute, regulation or
rule satisfies the duty.




(2)

The obligation of a securities intermediary to perform the duties
imposed under sections 98 to 102 is subject to




(a)

the rights of the securities intermediary arising out of a security
interest, whether that security interest arises under a security
agreement with the entitlement holder or otherwise, and




(b)

the rights of the securities intermediary under another statute, law,
regulation, rule or agreement to withhold performance of its duties as
a result of unfulfilled obligations of the entitlement holder to the
securities intermediary.




(3)

Nothing in sections 98 to 102 requires a securities intermediary to
take any action that is prohibited by another statute, regulation or
rule.




(4)

To the extent that specific standards for the performance of any
duties of a securities intermediary or the exercise of the rights of
an entitlement holder are not specified by another statute, regulation
or rule or by agreement between the securities intermediary and the
entitlement holder, the securities intermediary must perform its
duties and the entitlement holder must exercise the entitlement
holder's rights in a commercially reasonable manner.






Rights of purchaser respecting adverse claim




104

(1)


In a case not covered by the priority rules under the

Personal Property Security Act

or the rules set out in subsection (3), a legal proceeding based on an
adverse claim to a financial asset or a security entitlement, however
framed, may not be brought against a person who purchases a security
entitlement, or interest in it, from an entitlement holder if that
purchaser




(a)

gives value,




(b)

does not have notice of the adverse claim, and




(c)

obtains control.




(2)

If a legal proceeding based on an adverse claim could not have been
brought against an entitlement holder under section 96, a legal
proceeding based on the adverse claim may not be brought against a
person who purchases a security entitlement, or interest in it, from
the entitlement holder.




(3)

In a case not covered by the priority rules under the

Personal Property Security Act

, the following rules apply:




(a)

a purchaser for value of a security entitlement, or interest in it,
who obtains control has priority over a purchaser of a security
entitlement, or interest in it, who does not obtain control;




(b)

except as otherwise provided in subsection (4), purchasers who have
control rank according to priority in time of




(i)

the purchaser's becoming the person for whom the securities account in
which the security entitlement is carried is maintained, if the
purchaser obtained control under section 25 (1) (a),




(ii)

the securities intermediary's agreement to comply with the purchaser's
entitlement orders with respect to security entitlements carried or to
be carried in the securities account in which the security entitlement
is carried, if the purchaser obtained control under section 25 (1)
(b), or




(iii)

if the purchaser obtained control through another person under section
25 (1) (c), the time on which priority would be based under this
subsection if the other person were the purchaser.




(4)

A securities intermediary as purchaser has priority over a conflicting
purchaser who has control unless otherwise agreed by the securities
intermediary.






Priority of entitlement holders to financial asset




105

(1)


Except as otherwise provided in subsections (2) and (3), if a
securities intermediary does not have sufficient interests in a
particular financial asset to satisfy both the securities
intermediary's obligations to entitlement holders who have security
entitlements to that financial asset and the securities intermediary's
obligation to a creditor of the securities intermediary who has a
security interest in that financial asset, the claims of entitlement
holders, other than the creditor, have priority over the claim of the
creditor.




(2)

A claim of a creditor of a securities intermediary who has a security
interest in a financial asset held by a securities intermediary has
priority over claims of the securities intermediary's entitlement
holders who have security entitlements with respect to that financial
asset if the creditor has control over the financial asset.




(3)

If a clearing agency does not have sufficient financial assets to
satisfy both the clearing agency's obligations to entitlement holders
who have security entitlements with respect to a financial asset and
the clearing agency's obligation to a creditor of the clearing agency
who has a security interest in that financial asset, the claim of the
creditor has priority over the claims of entitlement holders.




Part 7 â€” Consequential Amendments



Consequential Amendments









[Note: See Table of Legislative Changes for the status of sections
106 to 139.]









Section(s)





Affected Act






106-109





Business Corporations Act






110-112





Court Order Enforcement Act






113-139





Personal Property Security Act










Commencement




140


This Act comes into force by regulation of the Lieutenant Governor in
Council.




