




Social Workers Act
[SBC 2008] CHAPTER 31


Assented to May 29, 2008






Definitions




1


In this Act:


"board"
means the board of the college constituted under section 4;


"bylaw"
means a bylaw of the college made under section 8 or 9;


"college"
means the British Columbia College of Social Workers established under
section 2 (1);


"former Act"
means the

Social Workers Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 432;


"inspector"
means an inspector for the college appointed under section 20;


"registrant"
means a person who is granted registration as a member of the college
in accordance with section 13;


"registrar"
means the person appointed as registrar for the college under section
12 (1);



"social work"

means the assessment, diagnosis, treatment and evaluation of
individual, interpersonal and societal issues through the use of
social work knowledge, skills, interventions and strategies, to assist
individuals, couples, families, groups, organizations and communities
to achieve optimum psychological and social functioning;



"social worker"

means a person who practises social work.




Part 1 — British Columbia College of Social Workers





College established




2

(1)


The British Columbia College of Social Workers is established.




(2)

The college is a corporation consisting of




(a)

the members of the board referred to in section 4, and




(b)

the persons who are registrants.




(3)

For the purposes of this Act, the college has all the powers and
capacity of a natural person.




(4)

The

Business Corporations Act

does not apply to the college unless the Lieutenant Governor in
Council, by order, provides that specified provisions of that Act
apply to the college, in which case the specified provisions apply.






Duty and objects




3

(1)


In carrying out its objects, it is the duty of the college at all
times




(a)

to serve and protect the public, and




(b)

to exercise its powers and discharge its responsibilities under this
Act in the public interest.




(2)

The college has the following objects:




(a)

to superintend the practice of social work;




(b)

to govern registrants according to this Act;




(c)

to establish the qualifications required for registration as a
registrant;




(d)

to establish and employ registration, inquiry and discipline practices
which are transparent, objective, impartial and fair;




(e)

to establish, monitor and enforce standards of practice and establish
ethical standards to enhance the quality of practice;




(f)

to establish and maintain a continuing competence program to promote
high practice standards amongst registrants;




(g)

to receive and investigate complaints against registrants and to deal
with issues of discipline, professional misconduct, incompetence and
incapacity;




(h)

to administer the affairs of the college and perform other duties
through the exercise of the powers conferred under this Act.






Board




4

(1)


The board of registration for social workers under the former Act is
continued as the first board under this Act until the time at which




(a)

the board members referred to in subsection (3) (a) are first elected,
and




(b)

the board members referred to in subsection (3) (b) are appointed.




(2)

The minister must specify the date on or before which a first election
must be held to elect the board members referred to in subsection (3)
(a).




(3)

Following the first election referred to in subsection (1), the board
must consist of




(a)

not fewer than 4 registrants elected in accordance with the bylaws,
and




(b)

not fewer than 2 persons appointed by the minister.




(4)

The number of persons appointed under subsection (3) (b) must not be




(a)

less than 1/3 of the total board membership, and




(b)

more than the number of persons elected under subsection (3) (a).




(5)

Persons appointed under subsection (3) (b) must not be




(a)

registrants, former registrants or persons qualified to be
registrants,




(b)

persons who are authorized by section 18 (2) to use the title "social
worker", or




(c)

members of the British Columbia Association of Social Workers.




(6)

Subject to the board's direction, a member of the board who resigns or
whose term of office expires may, even if a successor is elected or
appointed, continue to serve as a member of a committee established
under section 8 (1) or 2 (g) to complete work of the committee that
began before the resignation or expiry.




(7)

Despite subsections (3) and (4), a board duly constituted under
subsection (3) continues to govern if for any reason the number of
persons elected or appointed falls below the minimum requirements of
those subsections.






Election validation




5

(1)


Immediately after an election, the registrar must




(a)

certify each person who is elected as a member of the board by issuing
a certificate of membership to the person elected, and




(b)

specify in the certificate the dates on which the member's term of
office begins and ends.




(2)

Subject to this section, a certificate under subsection (1) is
conclusive evidence that the person named in the certificate has been
elected a member of the board.




(3)

A registrant may, within 30 days of the issue of a certificate under
subsection (1), question the certificate by petition to the Supreme
Court, setting out the grounds on which the registrant questions the
certificate.




(4)

A petition must be served on the registrar and on the person certified
to be elected.




(5)

A petition must be heard in a summary way.




(6)

The court may give directions on procedure and on persons to be served
with the petition.




(7)

The court may decide that a person was elected or may order a new
election and give directions.




(8)

A decision of the court is not subject to appeal and the college and
all other persons must be governed by it.




(9)

Subsection (1) applies to, and subsection (3) does not apply to, a new
election held under subsection (7).






Oath of office




6

(1)


Before taking office, a person elected or appointed to the board must
take and sign, by oath or solemn affirmation, a prescribed oath of
office within the following applicable time limit:




(a)

in the case of a person elected by acclamation, within 45 days after
the date set for voting day had an election by voting been required;




(b)

in the case of a person elected by voting, within 45 days after the
declaration of the results of the election;




(c)

in the case of a person appointed to office, within 45 days after the
effective date of the appointment.




(2)

The oath must be taken before a judge of the Court of Appeal, Supreme
Court or Provincial Court, a justice of the peace or the registrar,
and the person taking the oath must obtain the completed oath or a
certificate of it from the person administering it.




(3)

A person appointed or elected to the board must present the completed
oath required by subsection (1) or a certificate of it to the
registrar within the applicable time limit under subsection (1) (a),
(b) or (c) and before the person takes office on the board.




(4)

If a person elected or appointed to the board does not take and sign
the oath required by subsection (1) or does not comply with subsection
(3) within the time limits set by those subsections, the office to
which that person was elected or appointed is vacant and the vacancy
may be filled under section 4 (3) (a) or (b), as the case may be.






Responsibilities of board




7

(1)


The board must govern, control and administer the affairs of the
college in accordance with this Act.




(2)

The board must submit to the minister an annual report respecting the
college, including information that the minister may prescribe, not
later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year for the college.




(3)

The board may do any of the following:




(a)

establish standards, limits or conditions for the practice of social
work by registrants;




(b)

establish standards of professional ethics for registrants;




(c)

establish professional standards of conduct for registrants;




(d)

establish requirements for continuing education and for continuing
competence for registrants;




(e)

establish a quality assurance program.






Bylaws — administrative




8

(1)


Subject to this Act and the regulations, the board must, by bylaw,
establish a registration committee, a registration appeals committee,
an inquiry committee and a discipline committee.




(2)

Subject to this Act and the regulations, the board may make bylaws to
do any of the following:




(a)

regulate the time, place, calling and conduct of meetings of the board
and general meetings of registrants;




(b)

establish the quorum for meetings of the board, resolutions of the
board, the annual general meeting and other meetings of registrants;




(c)

establish the terms of office of elected members of the board, the
grounds and procedures for removing elected members of the board
before their terms of office have expired and the manner by which
vacancies on the board may be filled;




(d)

establish forms for the purpose of giving effect to the bylaws and
requiring registrants to use the forms;




(e)

provide for the appointment, removal, functions and duties of officers
of the college;




(f)

regulate and prohibit advertising or types of advertising by
registrants;




(g)

establish a quality assurance committee and other committees the board
determines are necessary or advisable;




(h)

in respect of a committee established under subsection (1) or
paragraph (g) of this subsection, provide for the following:




(i)

subject to the regulations, the composition of the committee,
including the appointment of non-board members and the appointment and
removal of committee members;




(ii)

procedures to be followed by the committee, including the quorum for
the committee;




(iii)

the duties and powers of the committee;




(iv)

the delegation of a duty or power of the board to the committee, other
than the power to make bylaws;




(v)

the delegation of a duty or power of the committee to panels of the
committee;




(vi)

the publication of decisions and other documents of the committee;




(i)

provide for remuneration of the members of the board and of committees
established under subsection (1) or paragraph (g) of this subsection;




(j)

establish a tariff of costs to partially indemnify the college for the
expenses incurred by the college for investigations under section 27;




(k)

establish a tariff of costs to partially indemnify parties for their
expenses incurred in the preparation for and conduct of hearings under
section 33, other than for investigations under section 27;




(l)

establish requirements for registrants concerning




(i)

the collection of personal information from clients,




(ii)

the creation of client records containing personal information, and




(iii)

the creation of administrative and accounting records;




(m)

establish rules respecting access to client records;




(n)

establish rules for the protection of client information, including
rules respecting the retention, disclosure, storage and destruction by
registrants of




(i)

client records, and




(ii)

administrative and accounting records;




(o)

provide for the general administration and operation of the college.




(3)

A tariff of costs established under subsection (2) (j) must not
provide for recovery of the remuneration paid to inspectors or members
of the inquiry committee.




(4)

A tariff of costs established under subsection (2) (k) must not
provide for recovery of the remuneration paid to members of the
discipline committee.






Bylaws — registration




9

(1)


Subject to this Act and the regulations, the board may, with the
approval of the minister, make bylaws to do any of the following:




(a)

establish the number of members of the board to be elected, and the
time, manner and procedure for the election of registrants to the
board under section 4 (3) (a);




(b)

establish classes of registrants and specify if members of a class are
eligible to be elected or to vote in an election referred to in
section 4 (3) (a);




(c)

provide that different classes of registrants may be subject to
registration for a limited period of time and may be permitted to
practise only in limited ways;




(d)

establish requirements for




(i)

the registration of a person as a member of the college,




(ii)

the issue, display, renewal and expiration of registration
certificates, and




(iii)

procedures for an application for review and the practice and
procedure for proceedings under sections 14 and 15;




(e)

provide for the recognition of registrants as specialists in a field
of the practice of social work;




(f)

specify the manner by which registrants may hold themselves out as
specialists in a field recognized under a bylaw made under paragraph
(e);




(g)

establish the obligations that must be discharged by a registrant
whose registration is suspended;




(h)

establish the qualifications required for registration as a
registrant;




(i)

authorize a committee established under section 8 (1) to determine if
an academic program meets the requirements of paragraph (h) of this
subsection;




(j)

delegate to the registrar the power to determine whether an
application for registration meets the requirements of the bylaws;




(k)

establish requirements for maintenance of professional liability
insurance coverage by registrants;




(l)

establish fees payable to the college by applicants for registration,
by registrants, or for reinstatement of former registrants;




(m)

provide for special fees levied under the bylaws to be payable by
registrants;




(n)

establish requirements for renewal, suspension, cancellation and
reinstatement of the registration of persons practising social work,
including providing for the suspension or cancellation of the
registration of a registrant for late payment or non-payment of fees;




(o)

establish the maximum fine that the discipline committee may impose
under section 34 (4) (e);




(p)

defining, for the purposes of a bylaw, conduct unbecoming a
professional and professional misconduct;




(q)

defining any other terms necessary to give effect to the bylaws.




(2)

The minister must not approve a bylaw made under subsection (1) unless
satisfied that appropriate provision has been made respecting




(a)

each of the objects referred to in section 3 (2), and




(b)

the election of registrants to the board under section 4 (3) (a).




(3)

The board may do the things described in subsection (1) only by bylaw.






Application of bylaws




10

(1)


This section applies to sections 8 and 9.




(2)

Provisions in a bylaw made under this Act may be different for
different classes of registrants.




(3)

The minister may request the board to amend or repeal an existing
bylaw for the college or to make a new bylaw for the college if the
minister is satisfied that this is necessary or advisable.




(4)

If the board does not comply with a request under subsection (3)
within 90 days after the date of the request, the minister may amend
or repeal the existing bylaw for the college or make the new bylaw for
the college in accordance with the request.




(5)

A bylaw may not be made, amended or repealed under subsection (4)
unless notice of the proposed bylaw, amendment or repeal is given to
the college




(a)

at least 3 months before the bylaw, amendment or repeal comes into
force, or




(b)

within a period, shorter than that set out in paragraph (a), that the
minister specifies as appropriate in the circumstances.




(6)

The board must




(a)

maintain a complete and accurate record of the bylaws that are in
effect for the college,




(b)

publish the bylaws electronically on the college website at least 3
months before the bylaws come into force, unless the board specifies a
shorter period of notice as appropriate in the circumstances,




(c)

make the bylaws available for inspection by registrants and the public
at the office of the college and electronically on the college
website, and




(d)

notify the minister and the registrants of amendments to the bylaws.






Interjurisdictional cooperation




11

(1)


In this section,
"governing body"
means the governing body of a social work profession in another
province or a foreign jurisdiction.




(2)

The board may promote cooperation with a governing body by doing one
or more of the following:




(a)

entering into agreements with one or more governing bodies concerning
the interjurisdictional practice of social work;




(b)

entering into agreements with one or more governing bodies concerning
the interjurisdictional practice of social work, interjurisdictional
credential recognition or competence assessment for registration
purposes, or other labour mobility matters;




(c)

entering into information-sharing agreements, as defined in section 69
(1) of the

Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act

, to allow the disclosure of information about a registrant to a
governing body, including information about practice restrictions,
complaints, competency and discipline.




(3)

The minister may, by order, approve an agreement described in
subsection (2) if the minister is satisfied it is in the public
interest to do so.




(4)

An agreement described in subsection (2) has no effect until it is
approved by the minister.




Part 2 — Registration





Registrar and register




12

(1)


The board must appoint a registrar for the college and may appoint a
deputy registrar for the college.




(2)

The registrar must maintain a register setting out, for each
registrant, the following:




(a)

the registrant's name, business address and business telephone number;




(b)

the class of registration, including areas of specialization and
related credentials;




(c)

terms, conditions and limitations imposed by the college on the
practice of social work by the registrant;




(d)

a notation of each cancellation or suspension of registration;




(e)

any additional prescribed matters.




(3)

The registrar must include in the register a notation of any
cancellation or suspension of registration that occurred or was
recorded before the coming into force of this section.




(4)

The registrar must cancel the registration of a registrant in the
register if




(a)

the registrant requests or gives written consent to the cancellation,




(b)

the registrant has failed to pay a fee for registration or for renewal
of registration or another fee within the required time,




(c)

the registration of the registrant has been cancelled under section 34
(4) (d),




(d)

the registrant has failed to pay a fine levied under section 34 (4)
(e), or




(e)

notification is received of the registrant's death.




(5)

Subject to this Act, the registrar may, on grounds the registration
committee considers sufficient, cause the registration of a former
registrant to be restored on the register on payment to the college of




(a)

any fees or other sums in arrears and owing by the former registrant
to the college, and




(b)

any reinstatement fee required by the bylaws.






Registration




13

(1)


The registrar must grant registration in the college and issue a
certificate of registration to every person who, in accordance with
the requirements of the bylaws,




(a)

applies to the college for registration,




(b)

satisfies the registrar that the person is qualified to be a
registrant, and




(c)

pays the required fees, if any.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), the registrar may refuse to grant registration
if the registrar determines that




(a)

the person's entitlement to practise social work has been suspended or
cancelled at some time in British Columbia or in another jurisdiction,




(b)

an investigation, review or other proceeding is underway in British
Columbia or in another jurisdiction that could result in the person's
entitlement to practise social work being limited, suspended or
cancelled,




(c)

the person's entitlement to practise as a registered social worker has
been voluntarily relinquished at some time in British Columbia or in
another jurisdiction with the effect of preventing the commencement or
completion of an investigation, review or other proceeding that could
have resulted in the person's entitlement to practise being suspended
or cancelled, or




(d)

the person has been convicted of an indictable offence.




(3)

The registrar must provide written reasons to the applicant for
refusing to grant registration under subsection (2).




(4)

Before the registrar refuses to grant registration to a person who has
been convicted of an indictable offence, the registrar must be
satisfied that the nature of the offence or the circumstances under
which it was committed give rise to concerns about the person's
competence or fitness to practise social work.




(5)

[Repealed 2013-8-54.]




(6)

A person must not apply for registration or continue to be registered
as a member of the college if the person knows that they are not
qualified to be a registrant.




(7)

A registrant may practise social work and, if practising, must do so
in accordance with this Act, the regulations and all standards, limits
and conditions for the practice of social work established by the
board.






Review by registration committee




14

(1)


An applicant for registration may apply in writing to the registration
committee for a review of the registrar's decision under section 13
(2) to refuse registration.




(2)

An application under subsection (1) must be made within 30 days after
the day on which the person received notice of the registrar's
decision.




(3)

Despite subsection (2), the registration committee may extend the time
to file an application for review under subsection (1) if




(a)

the time to file has expired, and




(b)

the registration committee is satisfied that special circumstances
exist.




(4)

The registration committee may hold any combination of written,
electronic and oral hearings.




(5)

After giving the applicant an opportunity to make submissions, the
registration committee may




(a)

confirm the decision of the registrar to refuse registration,




(b)

grant registration, or




(c)

grant registration that




(i)

is for a limited period,




(ii)

requires the applicant to undergo additional training, education or
testing,




(iii)

attaches terms and conditions to a grant of registration, or




(iv)

is for a class of registration that is different from the class of
registration for which the applicant applied.




(6)

The registration committee must provide written reasons to the
applicant for a decision made under subsection (5).






Registration appeals committee




15

(1)


An applicant for registration who is adversely affected by the
registration committee's decision under section 14 (5) (a) or (c) may
apply in writing to the registration appeals committee for a review of
the decision.




(2)

An application under subsection (1) must be made within 30 days after
the day on which the person received notice of the registration
committee's decision.




(3)

Despite subsection (2), the registration appeals committee may extend
the time to file an application for review under subsection (1) if




(a)

the time to file has expired, and




(b)

the registration appeals committee is satisfied that special
circumstances exist.




(4)

The registration appeals committee may hold any combination of
written, electronic and oral hearings.




(5)

After giving the applicant an opportunity to make submissions, the
registration appeals committee may




(a)

confirm the decision of the registration committee,




(b)

substitute a decision that could have been made by the registration
committee in the matter, or




(c)

refer the matter back to the registration committee with directions.




(6)

The registration appeals committee must provide written reasons to the
applicant for a decision made under subsection (5).




(7)

For the purpose of this section, members of the registration appeals
committee hearing an appeal under this section must be different from
the members of the registration committee who made the decision being
appealed.






Inspection of register




16

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), the register of the college must be open to
inspection by any person free of charge at all reasonable times during
regular business hours.




(2)

The registrar may refuse a person access to the register if the
registrar reasonably believes that




(a)

the access could threaten the safety of a registrant, or




(b)

the person seeking access is doing so for commercial purposes.




(3)

If access is refused under subsection (2), the registrar may disclose
information from the register that the registrar determines is
appropriate in the circumstances.






Certificate as evidence




17


A certificate signed by the registrar is proof, in the absence of
evidence to the contrary, of the matters stated in the certificate
that relate to the records of the college.






Title protection




18

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), no person other than a registrant may use




(a)

the title "social worker" or "registered social worker", or




(b)

a title prescribed under this Act.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not prevent a person from using the title "social
worker", or an abbreviation of that title, if that person is a social
worker who is, or works for, a prescribed person.




Part 3 — Inspections, Inquiries and Discipline





Definition




19


In this Part,
"registrant"
includes a former registrant.




Division 1 — Search and Seizure





Inspectors




20

(1)


The inquiry committee may appoint persons as inspectors for the
college.




(2)

The registrar is an inspector.






Powers and duties of inspectors




21

(1)


During regular business hours, an inspector may investigate, inquire
into, inspect, observe or examine one or more of the following without
a court order:




(a)

the premises, the equipment and the materials used by a registrant to
practise social work;




(b)

the records of a registrant relating to the registrant's practice of
social work, and may copy those records;




(c)

the practice of social work performed by or under the supervision of a
registrant.




(2)

The inquiry committee may direct an inspector to act under subsection
(1) or undertake any aspect of an investigation under section 27.




(3)

If an inspector acts under this section as a consequence of a
direction given under subsection (2), the inspector must report the
results of those actions in writing to the inquiry committee.






Search and seizure under court order




22

(1)


A person authorized by the inquiry committee may apply to the Supreme
Court for an order that authorizes an inspector for the college




(a)

to enter into the premises or land of a person named in the order at
any reasonable time and conduct an inspection, examination or
analysis,




(b)

to require the production of any record, property, assets or things
and to inspect, examine or analyze them, and




(c)

on giving a receipt, to seize and remove any record, property, assets
or things inspected, examined or analyzed under paragraph (a) or (b)
for further inspection, examination or analysis.




(2)

Unless the court otherwise directs, an application under subsection
(1) may be made without notice to any person and may be heard in
private.




(3)

On application under subsection (1), the court may make an order under
this section if satisfied on oath that there are reasonable grounds
for believing that evidence may be found




(a)

that a person who is not a registrant has contravened this Act, or




(b)

that a person who is a registrant




(i)

has contravened this Act,




(ii)

has failed to comply with a limit or condition imposed under this Act,




(iii)

has acted in a manner that constitutes professional misconduct,




(iv)

is not competent to practise social work, or




(v)

is experiencing a physical or mental ailment, an emotional disturbance
or an addiction to alcohol or drugs that impairs the person's ability
to practise social work.




(4)

In an order under this section, the court




(a)

must identify the premises or land to be entered and must generally
describe any thing to be searched for and examined, audited or seized,




(b)

may include any limitations or conditions the court considers proper,
including the time of entry, the disposition of things seized and the
access by any person to the things seized, and




(c)

may direct that section 23 does not apply to a thing specified in the
order




(i)

if all limitations and conditions included under paragraph (b) are
met, and




(ii)

unless, within 21 days of the seizure of the thing, a person who owned
or controlled the thing at the time of the seizure requests by
registered mail addressed to the inquiry committee that section 23
apply to the thing seized.




(5)

A person who, while conducting or attempting to conduct an entry or
search under this section, finds any thing not described in the order
that the person believes on reasonable grounds will provide evidence
in respect of a contravention of this Act may seize and remove that
thing.






Detention of things seized




23

(1)


For the purposes of subsection (2), the person who makes a seizure
under section 22 must report the seizure as soon as practicable to a
judge of the Supreme Court, who must be the judge who issued the order
under which the seizure was made unless this is not practicable.




(2)

On receiving a report under subsection (1), the judge must




(a)

order the thing that was seized returned to its owner or other person
entitled to it unless satisfied that an order under paragraph (b)
should be made, or




(b)

order the thing detained if satisfied that the detention is required
for the purposes of this Act.




(3)

An inspector may make one or more copies of any record detained under
subsection (2).




(4)

A document purporting to be certified by a representative of the
inquiry committee to be a true copy made under the authority of
subsection (3) is evidence of the nature and content of the original
document.




(5)

Subject to an order under section 22 (4) (b), the person from whom any
thing is seized under this section or the owner of the thing, if the
owner is a different person, is entitled to inspect that thing at any
reasonable time and, in the case of a record, to obtain one copy of
the record at the expense of the board.




(6)

A record must not be detained under this section for a period longer
than 3 months from the time of its seizure unless, before the
expiration of the period, either




(a)

the person from whom it was seized agrees to its continued detention,
or




(b)

the Supreme Court, on application and after being satisfied that its
continued detention is justified, orders its continued detention for a
specified period of time.






Prohibition against obstructing inspection or search




24

(1)


A person must not obstruct an inspector in the lawful performance of
duties or the lawful exercise of powers under this Act.




(2)

A person must not obstruct a person acting under section 22 or 23 or
under an order made under those sections.




Division 2 — Inquiry Committee





Criminal records review




25

(1)


For the purpose of sections 15 (2) (b) and 16 (1) of the

Criminal Records Review Act

, if the college is required under that Act to investigate or review
an individual's registration or application for registration, the
investigation or review must be conducted by the inquiry committee.




(2)

If the inquiry committee makes a decision arising from a determination
under the

Criminal Records Review Act

and the decision adversely affects the registrant, the registrant may
appeal the decision to the Supreme Court and, for those purposes, the
provisions of section 35 respecting an appeal from a decision of the
discipline committee apply to an appeal under this section.






Complaints to be made to registrar




26

(1)


A person who wishes to make a complaint against a registrant must
deliver a written complaint to the registrar.




(2)

The registrar, if authorized by the board, may dismiss all or part of
a complaint without reference to the inquiry committee if the
registrar determines that any of the following apply:




(a)

the complaint is trivial, frivolous, vexatious or made in bad faith;




(b)

the complaint is a matter over which the college does not have
jurisdiction;




(c)

the complaint gives rise to an abuse of process;




(d)

the complaint is filed for an improper purpose or motive;




(e)

there is no reasonable prospect the complaint will be substantiated;




(f)

the substance of the complaint has been appropriately dealt with in
another proceeding.




(3)

If a complaint is disposed of under subsection (2), the registrar must




(a)

deliver a written report to the inquiry committee about the
circumstances of the disposition,




(b)

notify the complainant and the registrant, in writing and with
reasons, respecting the circumstances of the disposition, and




(c)

advise the complainant that, within 30 days after receipt of the
notice under paragraph (b), the complainant may make a further
submission to the inquiry committee by delivering additional
information to the registrar respecting the complaint.




(4)

A disposition under subsection (2) takes effect 60 days after the
delivery of the written report described under subsection (3) (a)
unless, within that 60 day period, the inquiry committee decides to
investigate the matter.




(5)

Unless the registrar dismisses a complaint under subsection (2), as
soon as practicable after receiving the complaint the registrar must
deliver to the inquiry committee a copy of the complaint, an
assessment of the complaint and any recommendations of the registrar
for the disposition of the complaint.






Investigations by inquiry committee




27

(1)


If a complaint is delivered to the inquiry committee by the registrar
under section 26 (5), the inquiry committee must investigate the
matter raised by the complainant as soon as practicable.




(2)

The inquiry committee may, on its own motion, investigate a registrant
regarding any of the following matters:




(a)

a contravention of this Act;




(b)

a conviction for an indictable offence;




(c)

a failure to comply with a standard, limit or condition imposed under
this Act;




(d)

professional misconduct;




(e)

a finding of misconduct in social work or a similar profession




(i)

by a licensing body established under another enactment, or




(ii)

under a law enacted by the government of Canada, another province of
Canada or a foreign jurisdiction;




(f)

conduct unbecoming a professional;




(g)

competence to practise social work;




(h)

incapacity or impairment that prevents a registrant from engaging in
the practice of social work with reasonable skill, competence and
safety to the public.




(3)

The inquiry committee may require the registrant who is the subject of
an investigation under this section to provide it with any
information, documents or records the inquiry committee considers
necessary, and the registrant must cooperate with the inquiry
committee.




(4)

After considering any information, documents or records provided by
the registrant, and any other information gathered during the
investigation, the inquiry committee may




(a)

take no further action, if the inquiry committee is of the view that
the matter or complaint is trivial, frivolous, vexatious or made in
bad faith or that the conduct to which the matter or complaint relates
is satisfactory,




(b)

act under section 30, or




(c)

direct the registrar to issue a citation under section 31.




(5)

The inquiry committee may only act under subsection (4) (b) or (c) on
the basis of subsection (2) (b) if the inquiry committee is satisfied
that the nature of the offence or the circumstances under which it was
committed give rise to concerns




(a)

about the registrant's competence or fitness to practise social work,
or




(b)

that the registrant has engaged in professional misconduct or conduct
unbecoming a professional.




(6)

The inquiry committee must notify both the complainant and the
registrant of the inquiry committee's decision under subsection (4).






Report to be made if no remedial or disciplinary action taken




28

(1)


If the inquiry committee does not direct the registrar to issue a
citation regarding a matter investigated under section 27, it must
report to the board, in writing, regarding its decision and the
results of its investigation.




(2)

The board may, on its own motion after considering the report of the
inquiry committee under subsection (1),




(a)

confirm the inquiry committee's decision, or




(b)

set aside the decision of the inquiry committee and




(i)

direct that no further action be taken,




(ii)

direct the inquiry committee to act under section 30, or




(iii)

direct the registrar to issue a citation under section 31.




(3)

The board must notify the complainant, if any, and the registrant, in
writing and with reasons, of any decision under subsection (2).






Extraordinary action to protect public




29

(1)


If the inquiry committee considers that action is necessary to protect
the public during the investigation of a registrant or pending a
hearing of the discipline committee, it may, without providing the
registrant an opportunity to make submissions,




(a)

set limits or conditions on the practice of social work by the
registrant, or




(b)

suspend the registration of the registrant.




(2)

If the inquiry committee acts under subsection (1), it must notify the
registrant and the registrant's employer in writing of its decision,
of the reasons for the decision and of the registrant's right to
appeal that decision to the Supreme Court.




(3)

A decision under subsection (1) is not effective until the earlier of




(a)

the time the registrant receives the notice under subsection (2), and




(b)

3 days after the notice is mailed to the registrant at the last
address for the registrant recorded in the register of the college.




(4)

If the inquiry committee determines that action taken under subsection
(1) is no longer necessary to protect the public, it must cancel the
limits, conditions or suspension and must notify the registrant and
the registrant's employer in writing of the cancellation as soon as
possible.




(5)

A registrant against whom action has been taken under subsection (1)
may appeal the decision to the Supreme Court and, for those purposes,
the provisions of section 35 respecting an appeal from a decision of
the discipline committee apply to an appeal under this section.






Complaint resolution agreement




30

(1)


In relation to a matter investigated under section 27, the inquiry
committee may request in writing that the registrant do one or more of
the following:




(a)

undertake not to repeat the conduct to which the matter relates;




(b)

undertake to take educational courses specified by the inquiry
committee;




(c)

agree to a reprimand;




(d)

undertake or agree to any other action specified by the inquiry
committee.




(2)

If an undertaking or agreement given in respect of a request under
subsection (1) relates to an investigation under section 27 (1), the
inquiry committee must deliver a written summary of the undertaking or
agreement to the complainant.




(3)

If a registrant refuses to give an undertaking or agreement requested
under subsection (1), or if a registrant fails to comply with an
undertaking or agreement given in response to a request under
subsection (1), the inquiry committee may direct the registrar to
issue a citation under section 31 for a hearing by the discipline
committee regarding the matter.






Citation for hearing by discipline committee




31

(1)


If directed by the inquiry committee or the board, the registrar must
issue a citation that




(a)

names the affected registrant as respondent,




(b)

describes the nature of the complaint or other matter that is to be
the subject of a hearing by the discipline committee,




(c)

specifies the date, time and place of the hearing, and




(d)

advises the respondent that the discipline committee is entitled to
proceed with the hearing in the respondent's absence.




(2)

The registrar must have a citation either delivered to the respondent
by personal service or by mailing it by registered post to the
respondent at the last address for the respondent recorded in the
register referred to in section 12 (2) not fewer than 30 days before
the date of the hearing.




(3)

If the subject matter of a citation is a complaint, the registrar must
notify the complainant in writing of the date, time and place of the
hearing not fewer than 14 days before the date of the hearing.




(4)

The inquiry committee or the board may direct the registrar to cancel
a citation that has been issued on its direction if the inquiry
committee or board afterwards determines that a hearing by the
discipline committee is not required, and the registrar must then
cancel the citation and notify the respondent and the complainant, if
any, of the cancellation.






Consent orders




32

(1)


The registrant may give the inquiry committee a written proposal, at
any time before the commencement of a hearing under section 33,




(a)

stating the nature of the complaint or other matter that is to be the
subject of the hearing,




(b)

consenting to the making of an order under section 34 (4) or (8) as
set out in the proposal,




(c)

consenting to indemnify the college for the investigation under
section 27 in an amount not to exceed the costs for the inquiry
calculated under the tariff of costs established under section 8 (2)
(j), and




(d)

if the registrant gives the proposal to the inquiry committee fewer
than 7 days before the hearing is scheduled to commence, consenting to
indemnify the college for preparing for the hearing in an amount not
to exceed the costs of preparing for the hearing calculated under the
tariff of costs established under section 8 (2) (k).




(2)

If the hearing under section 33 has commenced,




(a)

the registrant may give to the discipline committee a written proposal




(i)

described in subsection (1) (a) to (c), and




(ii)

consenting to indemnify the college for preparing for and conducting
the hearing in an amount not to exceed the costs of preparing for and
conducting the hearing calculated under the tariff of costs
established under section 8 (2) (k), and




(b)

the discipline committee may accept or reject the proposal in its
discretion.




(3)

The inquiry committee or the discipline committee may accept or reject
a proposal received under subsection (1) or (2) based on the
investigations described in section 27 respecting the complaint.




(4)

If the inquiry committee or the discipline committee accepts a
proposal received under subsection (1) or (2),




(a)

an order under section 34 (4) is deemed to be made as set out in the
proposal,




(b)

section 34 (2) and (3) apply to the order under paragraph (a) as
though it had been made by the discipline committee, and




(c)

a hearing on the citation need not proceed and may end without
disposition.




(5)

If the inquiry committee or the discipline committee rejects a
proposal received under subsection (1) or (2),




(a)

a hearing of the citation must proceed as though the proposal had not
been made, and




(b)

the discipline committee must not consider the written proposal
described in subsection (1) in determining the matter or in making an
order under section 34.




Division 3 — Discipline Committee





Discipline committee hearing




33

(1)


Subject to section 32, the discipline committee must hear and
determine a matter set for hearing by citation issued under section
31.




(2)

Members of the discipline committee holding a hearing must not




(a)

have taken part before the hearing in any investigation of the subject
matter of the hearing, other than as a member of the board acting
under section 28, and




(b)

subject to subsection (3) of this section, communicate directly or
indirectly about the subject matter of the hearing with any person or
with any party or representative of a party, except on notice to all
parties and with the opportunity for all parties to participate.




(3)

The discipline committee may seek legal advice from an adviser
independent from the parties.




(4)

The respondent and the college may appear as parties and with counsel
at a hearing of the discipline committee.




(5)

A complainant may be represented by legal counsel, at the
complainant's cost, at a hearing of the discipline committee.




(6)

Subject to subsection (7), a hearing of the discipline committee must
be in public.




(7)

The discipline committee may make an order excluding the public from a
part of the hearing if the committee is satisfied that




(a)

financial, personal or other matters may be disclosed at the hearing
that are of such a nature that the principles of confidentiality and
privacy outweigh the desirability of adhering to the principle that
hearings be open to the public,




(b)

a person involved in a criminal proceeding or in a civil suit or
proceeding may be prejudiced, or




(c)

the safety of a person may be jeopardized.




(8)

If the respondent does not attend, the discipline committee may




(a)

adjourn or proceed with the hearing in the respondent's absence on
proof of service in accordance with section 31 (2), and




(b)

take any action that it is authorized to take under this Act without
further notice to the respondent.




(9)

The discipline committee may order a person to attend at a hearing to
give evidence and to produce records in the possession of or under the
control of the person.




(10)

On application to the Supreme Court by a person authorized by the
discipline committee, a person who fails to attend or to produce
records as required by an order under subsection (9) is liable to be
committed for contempt as if the person who fails to attend or to
produce records were in breach of an order or judgment of the Supreme
Court.




(11)

If the discipline committee considers that action is necessary to
protect the public between the time a hearing is commenced and the
time it makes an order under section 34 (4), the discipline committee




(a)

may set limits or conditions on the practice of social work by the
registrant or may suspend the registration of the registrant, and




(b)

must notify the registrant and the registrant's employer in writing of
its decision under paragraph (a), of the reasons for the decision and
of the registrant's right to appeal that decision to the Supreme
Court.




(12)

A decision under subsection (11) (a) is not effective until the
earlier of




(a)

the time the registrant receives the notice under subsection (11) (b),
and




(b)

3 days after the notice is mailed to the registrant at the last
address for the registrant recorded in the register of the college.




(13)

If the discipline committee determines that action taken under
subsection (11) (a) is no longer necessary to protect the public, it
must cancel the limits, conditions or suspension and must notify the
registrant and the registrant's employer in writing of the
cancellation as soon as possible.




(14)

A registrant against whom action has been taken under subsection (11)
may appeal the decision to the Supreme Court and, for those purposes,
the provisions of section 35 apply to an appeal under this section.






Action by discipline committee




34

(1)


On completion of a hearing, the discipline committee may




(a)

dismiss the matter, or




(b)

determine that the respondent




(i)

has not complied with this Act,




(ii)

has not complied with a standard, limit or condition imposed under
this Act,




(iii)

has committed professional misconduct or conduct unbecoming a
professional,




(iv)

has incompetently practised social work, or




(v)

experiences an incapacity or impairment that prevents the respondent
from engaging in the practice of social work with reasonable skill,
competence and safety to the public.




(2)

If the discipline committee dismisses the matter under subsection (1)
(a) on the basis that the matter was without merit, it may award costs
to the respondent against the college, based on the tariff of costs
established under section 8 (2) (k).




(3)

Costs awarded under subsection (2) must not exceed, in total, 50% of
the actual costs to the respondent for legal representation for the
purposes of the investigation under section 27 and the hearing.




(4)

If a determination is made under subsection (1) (b), the discipline
committee may, by order, do one or more of the following:




(a)

reprimand the respondent;




(b)

impose limits or conditions on the respondent's practice of social
work;




(c)

suspend the respondent's registration;




(d)

cancel the respondent's registration;




(e)

fine the respondent in an amount not exceeding the maximum fine
established under section 9 (1) (o).




(5)

An order of the discipline committee under subsection (4) must




(a)

be in writing,




(b)

include reasons for the order, and




(c)

be delivered to the respondent and to the complainant, if any.




(6)

If the discipline committee acts under subsection (4), it may award
costs to the college against the respondent, based on the tariff of
costs established under section 8 (2) (k).




(7)

Costs awarded under subsection (6) must not exceed, in total, 50% of
the actual costs to the college for legal representation for the
purposes of the hearing.




(8)

If the registration of the respondent is suspended or cancelled under
subsection (4), the discipline committee may




(a)

impose conditions on the lifting of the suspension or on the
respondent's eligibility to apply for reinstatement of registration,




(b)

direct that the suspension be lifted or the respondent become eligible
to apply for reinstatement of registration on




(i)

a date specified in the order, or




(ii)

the date on which the discipline committee or the board determines
that the respondent has complied with the conditions imposed under
paragraph (a) of this subsection, and




(c)

impose conditions on the respondent's practice of social work that
apply after the lifting of the suspension or the reinstatement of
registration.




(9)

If an order under subsection (4) is appealed under section 35 within
30 days after it is made, the discipline committee, on application of
the respondent under this section, may




(a)

stay the order pending the hearing of the appeal, and




(b)

set terms and conditions on the practice of social work by the
respondent during the stay.




(10)

The discipline committee may act under subsection (4) respecting a
registrant as though a determination has been made under
subsection (1) if, at any time, the registrar advises the
disciplinary committee, or the registrant admits, that the registrant
has, before or after being granted registration under section 13, done
or failed to do any act or thing in another jurisdiction that, in the
opinion of the discipline committee, constitutes professional
misconduct under this Act.




(11)

The discipline committee may act under subsection (10) without a
citation under section 31 or a hearing under section 33.




(12)

The discipline committee must not act under subsection (10) before the
registrant has been provided an opportunity to make submissions, which
may be limited to an opportunity to make submissions in writing.




(13)

For the purposes of this section, a certified copy of a record of the
finding made or actions taken in respect of a registrant by a
governing body of social work in another jurisdiction is proof, in the
absence of evidence to the contrary, of the findings made or actions
taken, without proof of the signature of the person purporting to have
signed on behalf of that body.






Appeal of discipline committee decision to Supreme Court




35

(1)


A respondent aggrieved or adversely affected by an order of the
discipline committee under section 34 (4) may appeal to the Supreme
Court.




(2)

An appeal under this section must be commenced within 30 days after
the date that the respondent bringing the appeal received written
notice of the discipline committee's action under section 34 (4).




(3)

An appeal under this section must be commenced by filing a petition in
any registry of the Supreme Court, and the Supreme Court Civil Rules
respecting petition proceedings apply to the appeal, but Rule 18-3 of
those rules does not apply.




(4)

The petition commencing an appeal under this section must, within 14
days of its filing in the court registry, be served on the college,
effected by service on the registrar.




(5)

Within 14 days of being served with the petition under subsection (4),
the college must provide notice of the appeal to the complainant if
the matter relates to a complaint.




(6)

On request by a party to an appeal, or a party contemplating an
appeal, under subsection (1) and on payment by the party of any
disbursements and expenses in connection with the request, the
registrar must provide that party with copies of part or all, as
requested, of the record of the proceeding before the discipline
committee.




(7)

An appeal under subsection (l) is a review on the record unless the
court is satisfied that a new hearing or the admission of further
evidence is necessary in the interests of justice.




(8)

On the hearing of an appeal under this section, the court may




(a)

confirm, vary or reverse the action of the discipline committee,




(b)

refer the matter back to the discipline committee, with or without
directions, or




(c)

make any other order it considers appropriate in the circumstances.




(9)

A decision of the Supreme Court on an appeal under subsection (1) may
be appealed to the Court of Appeal if leave to appeal is granted by
the Court of Appeal.






Public notification




36

(1)


If, subject to subsection (2), the discipline committee considers it
in the public interest, the registrar must notify the public of




(a)

the name of a registrant who has been disciplined by the discipline
committee, and




(b)

the reasons why the disciplinary action was taken.




(2)

The registrar must withhold notification of some or all of the reasons
referred to in subsection (1) (b) if the discipline committee
considers that notification of the reasons would cause significant
hardship to a person who was harmed, abused or exploited by the
registrant.




(3)

The notification required under subsection (1) may be made by posting
a notice on the college's website.






Online registry




37

(1)


The board must establish, and the registrar, using information
collected under section 12 (2), must maintain, an online registry for
the purpose of providing the public with the following information
about each registrant:




(a)

the registrant's name;




(b)

with the consent of the registrant, the business address and business
telephone number of the registrant;




(c)

the current status of the registrant's certificate of registration;




(d)

a record of any suspensions or cancellations of the registrant's
certificate of registration;




(e)

a record of disciplinary action taken by the board with regard to the
registrant for




(i)

misconduct that involved




(A)

physical harm,




(B)

sexual abuse or sexual exploitation, or




(C)

significant emotional harm, or




(ii)

conduct that breached the board's standards of professional conduct or
competence.




(2)

Subject to subsection (3), the record in the online registry of the
matters referred to in subsection (1) (d) must state the reasons why
the disciplinary action was taken.




(3)

The board may withhold or remove from the registry a statement of the
reasons referred to in subsection (2) if the board considers that the
statement, if included in the registry, would cause significant
hardship to a person who was harmed, abused or exploited by the
registrant.




(4)

After a record referred to in subsection (1) (e) has been on the
registry for at least 5 years, the registrant whose misconduct is
recorded may apply to the board to have that record removed from the
registry, and the board may remove that record if it is in the public
interest to do so.




Part 4 — General





Definition




38


In sections 39, 40, 43 and 49 (1),
"registrant"
includes a former registrant.






Employer's duty to report




39

(1)


An employer who terminates, suspends or disciplines a registrant for
misconduct that is committed in the course of practising social work
and that involves physical or significant emotional harm to or sexual
abuse or exploitation of a client must, promptly after the
termination, suspension or discipline, file with the registrar a
written report setting out the reasons.




(2)

If an employer intended to terminate, suspend or discipline a
registrant for misconduct that was committed in the course of
practising social work and that involved physical or significant
emotional harm to or sexual abuse or exploitation of a client, but the
employer did not do so because the registrant resigned, the employer
must, promptly after the resignation, file with the registrar a
written report setting out the reasons on which the employer intended
to act.




(3)

If a person




(a)

has reason to believe that the continued practice of a registrant
might expose a member of the public to physical harm, sexual abuse or
exploitation or significant emotional harm, and




(b)

for a reason described in paragraph (a), dissolves a partnership or
association that the person has with the registrant,


that person must, promptly after dissolving the partnership or
association, file with the registrar a written report respecting the
matter.




(4)

On receiving a report under subsection (1), (2) or (3), the registrar
must deliver the report to the inquiry committee which may, under
section 27 (2), investigate the matter.






Registrant's duty to report




40

(1)


A registrant who has reason to believe that another registrant, in the
course of practising social work, is causing or has caused physical or
significant emotional harm to or is or has engaged in sexual abuse or
sexual exploitation of a client, must promptly provide to the
registrar a written and signed report on the matter.




(2)

Subsection (1) applies even if the information on which the belief is
based is confidential and its disclosure is prohibited under another
Act.




(3)

A registrant is not required to file a report under subsection (1) if
the registrant does not have information to identify, or that permits
the registrar to identify, the registrant who would be the subject of
the report.




(4)

If a registrant is required to file a report under subsection (1)
because of information obtained from one of the registrant's clients,
the registrant must use best efforts to advise the client of the
requirement to file the report before doing so.






Immunity




41


No proceeding may be instituted against a person for filing a report
under section 39 or 40 unless the report is filed in bad faith.






Liability protection




42

(1)


No action for damages lies or may be brought against a member of the
board or a person acting on behalf of or under the direction of the
college or board because of anything done:




(a)

in the performance or intended performance of any duty under this Act,
or




(b)

in the exercise or intended exercise of any power under this Act.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply to a person referred to in that
subsection in relation to anything done or omitted by that person in
bad faith.




(3)

Subsection (1) does not absolve the college from vicarious liability
for an act or omission by a person referred to in that subsection for
which the college would be vicariously liable if this section were not
in force.






Responsibility of registrants not affected by incorporation




43

(1)


The liability of a registrant for professional negligence is not
affected by the fact that the registrant practises social work as an
employee of a corporation.




(2)

The relationship of a registrant to a corporation, whether as a
shareholder, director, officer, agent, trustee, contractor or employee
of the corporation, does not affect, modify or diminish the
application to the registrant of this Act.




(3)

Nothing in this Act affects, modifies or limits any law that applies
to the fiduciary, confidential or ethical relationships between a
registrant and a person receiving the professional services of a
registrant.




(4)

The relationship between a corporation and a person receiving services
provided by the corporation is to be treated the same as, and is
subject to all applicable law relating to, the fiduciary, confidential
and ethical relationships that exist between a registrant and the
registrant's client.






Prohibitions regarding practice of social work




44

(1)


If a regulation made under section 50 (2) (b) limits the services that
may be performed in the course of the practice of social work by a
registrant, a registrant must limit the registrant's practice of
social work in accordance with the regulation.




(2)

If a regulation made under section 50 (2) (c) prescribes a service
that may be performed only by a registrant,




(a)

a person, other than a registrant, must not perform the service, and




(b)

a person must not recover a fee or remuneration in any court in
respect of the performance of the service unless, at the time of
performance, the person was a registrant entitled to perform the
service.






Exception to prohibitions




45


Despite section 44, nothing in this Act prohibits a person from
practising a profession, discipline or other occupation in accordance
with another Act.






Offences




46

(1)


A person who contravenes section 13 (6), 18 (1), 24 (1) or (2) or 48
(1) or (2) commits an offence.




(2)

Section 5 of the

Offence Act

does not apply to this Act.




(3)

A prosecution of an offence under this Act must not be commenced after
the expiration of 2 years from the date the alleged offence first
became known.




(4)

In any prosecution under this Act, it is sufficient to prove that the
accused has committed a single act of unauthorized practice or has
committed on one occasion any of the acts prohibited by this Act.






Injunction to restrain contravention




47

(1)


The registrar may apply to the Supreme Court for an interim or
permanent injunction to restrain a person from contravening any
provision of this Act.




(2)

A contravention may be restrained under subsection (1) whether or not
a penalty or other remedy has been provided by this Act.






Confidential information




48

(1)


Subject to the

Child, Family and Community Service Act

, the

Ombudsperson Act

and the

Representative for Children and Youth Act

, a person must preserve confidentiality with respect to all matters
or things that come to the person's knowledge while exercising a power
or performing a duty or function under this Act unless the disclosure
is




(a)

necessary to exercise the power or to perform the duty or function, or




(b)

authorized as being in the public interest by the board.




(2)

Insofar as the laws of British Columbia apply, a person must not give,
or be compelled to give, evidence in a court or in proceedings of a
judicial nature concerning knowledge gained in the exercise of a power
or in the performance of a duty or function under Part 3 unless




(a)

the proceedings are under this Act, or




(b)

disclosure of the knowledge is authorized under subsection (1) (b) or
under the bylaws or regulations made under this Act.




(3)

The records relating to the exercise of a power or the performance of
a duty or function under Part 3 are not compellable in a court or in
proceedings of a judicial nature insofar as the laws of British
Columbia apply unless




(a)

the proceedings are under this Act, or




(b)

disclosure of the knowledge is authorized under subsection (1) (b) or
under the bylaws or regulations made under this Act.






Deemed receipt of documents




49

(1)


If a notice or other document is required to be delivered to a person
under this Act, it is deemed to have been received by the person 7
days after the date on which it was mailed, if it was sent by
registered mail,




(a)

in the case of a document to be delivered to a registrant, to the last
address for that registrant recorded in the register referred to in
section 12 (2), and




(b)

in any other case, to the last address of that person known to the
sender.




(2)

For the purpose of proving deemed receipt of a document referred to in
subsection (1), proof of receipt may be made by affidavit as to the
date on which the document was sent by registered mail.




(3)

If a notice or document is not served in accordance with this Act, the
proceeding is not invalidated if




(a)

the contents of the notice or document were known by the person to be
served within the time allowed for service,




(b)

the person to be served consents, or




(c)

the failure to serve does not result in prejudice to the person, or
any resulting prejudice can be satisfactorily addressed by an
adjournment or other means.






Power to make regulations




50

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
section 41 of the

Interpretation Act

.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations as follows:




(a)

specifying services that may be performed by registrants;




(b)

specifying limits or conditions on the services that may be performed
by registrants;




(c)

specifying services that may be performed only by registrants;




(d)

specifying services that may be performed by a registrant despite a
limitation or prohibition under another enactment;




(e)

prescribing the oath of office for the purpose of section 6;




(f)

specifying information required in an annual report under section 7
(2);




(g)

prescribing a change in the composition of a committee established
under section 8 (1) or (2) (g), or of panels of a committee;




(h)

requiring that the board or a committee established under section 8
(1) or (2) (g) open its meetings, subject to section 48, to attendance
by the registrants or members of the public;




(i)

in respect of a regulation under paragraph (h), specifying the
circumstances in which the board or a committee established under
section 8 (1) or (2) (g) may exclude registrants or members of the
public from meetings of the board or the committee;




(j)

establishing a deadline for a committee established under section 8
(1) or (2) (g) to complete a stage of its work respecting the
registration of applicants to the college or the disposal of matters
under Part 3, and establishing that the committee must report to the
minister, or a person specified by the minister, if the deadline is
missed;




(k)

specifying information that the registrar must collect and include in
the register described in section 12 (2);




(l)

specifying how the registrar is to establish, maintain, make open to
the public and otherwise administer the register described in section
12 (2);




(m)

prescribing additional titles for the purpose of section 18 (1) (b);




(n)

prescribing persons for the purpose of section 18 (2);




(o)

defining any word or expression used but not defined in this Act.




(3)

Subject to subsection (4), notice of a proposal to make, amend or
repeal a regulation under this section must be given to the college at
least 3 months before the regulation, amendment or repeal comes into
force.




(4)

A notice period of less than 3 months applies for the purposes of
subsection (3) if the minister specifies this shorter notice period.




(5)

Regulations may provide differently for different classes of
registrants.






Transition




51

(1)


On the coming into force of this Act,




(a)

the registrar of the board of registration for social workers under
the former Act continues as the registrar of the college under this
Act for the same term of office unless the term is terminated earlier
under this Act, and




(b)

if, under section 56 of the Rules of the Board of Registration for
Social Workers in British Columbia under the former Act, a referral
has been made that a hearing should be held, and the hearing has
commenced but is not concluded, the members of the hearing panel
continue as members of the hearing panel for the purposes of the
hearing until it is concluded, as if this Act had not come into force
and the former Act had not been repealed.




(2)

The Rules of the Board of Registration for Social Workers in British
Columbia under the former Act in effect on the coming into force of
this Act, insofar as applicable and not inconsistent with this Act,
are the bylaws of the college until amended or repealed.




(3)

On the coming into force of this Act, a person who is registered as a
social worker under the former Act is deemed to be a registrant under
this Act and is subject to the same conditions as under the former Act
until the person's registration expires or is cancelled under this
Act.




(4)

On the coming into force of this Act, an application for registration,
renewal or reinstatement made under the former Act that has not been
concluded must be concluded in accordance with this Act.




(5)

For the purposes of subsection (4), the powers and duties of




(a)

the registrar of the board of registration for social workers under
the former Act are vested in and may be exercised by the registrar
under this Act, and any reference to the registrar in the former Act
is deemed to be a reference to the registrar under this Act,




(b)

the registration committee of the board of registration for social
workers under the former Act may be exercised by the registration
committee of the college under this Act, and any reference to the
registration committee in the former Act is deemed to be a reference
to the registration committee under this Act, and




(c)

the board of registration for social workers under the former Act are
vested in and may be exercised by the board under this Act, and any
reference to the board in the former Act is deemed to be a reference
to the board under this Act.




(6)

Any complaint made on or after the coming into force of this Act that
relates to conduct occurring all or partly before the coming into
force of this Act must be dealt with under this Act.




(7)

On the coming into force of this Act, any proceeding with respect to a
complaint made under the former Act that has not been referred to a
hearing panel must be referred to the inquiry committee established
under this Act, and the complaint must be concluded in accordance with
this Act.




(8)

The definitions of "government body" and "government corporation" in
section 1 of the

Financial Administration Act

do not apply to the first board of the college described in section 4
(1) of this Act.




Repeal









[Note: See Table of Legislative Changes for the status of sections
52 to 57.]









Section(s)





Affected Act






52





Social Workers Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 432







Consequential Amendments






53





Adoption Act






54





Attorney General Act






55



Final Agreement Consequential Amendments Act, 2007




56





Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act






57





Medical Practitioners Act










Commencement




58


This Act comes into force by regulation of the Lieutenant Governor in
Council.




