




Special Wine Store Licence Auction Act
[SBC 2015] CHAPTER 20


Assented to May 14, 2015






Definitions




1

(1)


In this Act:


"auction"
means an auction conducted under this Act;



"auction price"

means the amount, determined under the auction procedures, that a
successful bidder must pay for the right to apply for a special wine
store licence;



"auction procedures"

means the procedures referred to in section 5 (1);



"general manager's list"

means the list of successful bidders that the general manager keeps in
accordance with section 7;



"grocery store"

means a store that




(a)

is primarily engaged in retailing food and non-alcoholic beverages
that are specified in the regulations, and




(b)

has an area of at least 929 square metres;



"record of unsuccessful bidders"

means the record of unsuccessful bidders that the general manager
keeps in accordance with section 8;



"special wine store licence"

means a licence that authorizes the licensee




(a)

to sell wine in respect of which the naturally occurring sugar used in
the fermentation process comes from only




(i)

plant products grown in British Columbia,




(ii)

honey produced from beehives located in British Columbia, or




(iii)

milk from animals located in British Columbia,




(b)

to sell cider in respect of which the naturally occurring sugar used
in the fermentation process comes only from plant products grown in
British Columbia,




(c)

to sell sake in respect of which the rice used in its production is
grown only in British Columbia, and




(d)

to sell the wine, cider and sake from any location approved by the
general manager within a specified grocery store;



"successful bidder"

means a bidder whose bid at an auction is successful as determined
under the auction procedures, and includes a bidder who is added to
the general manager's list in accordance with section 11.




(2)

The definitions in the

Liquor Control and Licensing Act

apply to this Act.






Auctions




2

(1)


The general manager may conduct one or more auctions to receive bids
for the right to apply for a special wine store licence.




(2)

Bids may be accepted under this Act in respect of only a prescribed
number of special wine store licences.






Right to apply for special wine store licence




3


Only a successful bidder on the general manager's list for a specified
grocery store may apply under the

Liquor Control and Licensing Act

for a special wine store licence for that grocery store.






Requirements for bidders




4


The general manager must not accept a bid from a bidder unless




(a)

the bidder specifies an existing or proposed grocery store from which
wine, cider and sake are intended to be sold,




(b)

the bidder submits a deposit in the prescribed amount by certified
cheque or in another prescribed form,




(c)

the bid is equal to or greater than the minimum bid established by the
auction procedures, and




(d)

the bidder satisfies any other requirement of the auction procedures.






Auction procedures




5

(1)


An auction must be conducted in accordance with procedures established
by




(a)

the regulations, and




(b)

the rules made by the general manager under section 16.




(2)

The general manager must post, in advance of an auction, the auction
procedures on a publicly accessible website maintained by or on behalf
of the minister.






Conduct of auctions




6

(1)


The general manager is responsible for the conduct of an auction.




(2)

The general manager may enter into agreements authorizing a person or
organization that has expertise in conducting auctions to conduct,
under the supervision of the general manager, all or a part of an
auction.






General manager's list




7

(1)


The general manager must keep a list of all successful bidders,
together with the grocery store specified in the bid of each
successful bidder.




(2)

The number of grocery stores specified on the list must not exceed the
prescribed number of special wine store licences for which bids may be
accepted.




(3)

The general manager must substitute, on the list, a different existing
or proposed grocery store in respect of a bid of a successful bidder
if the successful bidder




(a)

submits an application in a form acceptable to the general manager
requesting the substitution, and




(b)

pays the prescribed fee.






Record of unsuccessful bidders




8


The general manager must keep a record of




(a)

all bidders who met the requirements set out in section 4, but were
unsuccessful, and




(b)

the grocery store specified in each unsuccessful bid.






Payment of auction price




9


No special wine store licence may be issued to a successful bidder on
the general manager's list unless the auction price in respect of the
bid has been paid within the prescribed time after the bidder has been
notified by the general manager that the bidder's application for the
special wine store licence has been approved.






Removal from general manager's list




10


The general manager must remove a successful bidder and the grocery
store associated with the bid of the successful bidder from the
general manager's list in the following circumstances:




(a)

the successful bidder has not submitted, within the prescribed time, a
complete application or fees under the

Liquor Control and Licensing Act

for a special wine store licence for that grocery store;




(b)

the successful bidder has not paid the auction price in respect of the
bid of that successful bidder within the prescribed time after being
notified by the general manager that the successful bidder's
application for a special wine store licence for that grocery store
has been approved;




(c)

the successful bidder's application for a special wine store licence
for that grocery store is refused under the

Liquor Control and Licensing Act

;




(d)

the successful bidder requests the general manager to do so.






Addition to general manager's list




11


If the general manager removes a successful bidder from the general
manager's list, the general manager must add to the general manager's
list the bidder on the record of unsuccessful bidders having the
highest priority, as determined under the auction procedures, together
with the grocery store specified in the bid of that bidder.






Forfeiture of deposit




12


Subject to any prescribed exceptions, the deposit of a successful
bidder submitted in respect of a grocery store is forfeited to the
government if the bidder and grocery store are removed from the
general manager's list.






Return of deposit




13

(1)


The general manager must return a deposit submitted by a bidder in
respect of a grocery store if




(a)

the bidder is on the record of unsuccessful bidders and has requested
the return of the deposit, or




(b)

the bidder is on the record of unsuccessful bidders and the prescribed
number of special wine store licences have been issued.




(2)

If a deposit is returned to an unsuccessful bidder under subsection
(1) (a), the general manager must remove the bidder and the grocery
store from the record of unsuccessful bidders and the unsuccessful
bidder may no longer be added to the general manager's list in respect
of that bid.






Offence Act




14


Section 5 of the

Offence Act

does not apply to this Act or the regulations.






Power to make regulations




15

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
section 41 of the

Interpretation Act

.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations as follows:




(a)

prescribing the number of special wine store licences in respect of
which bids may be accepted under this Act;




(b)

specifying the types of food and non-alcoholic beverages for the
purposes of the definition of "grocery store";




(c)

prescribing the amount of deposits submitted under section 4 (b);




(d)

respecting the additional forms of deposits that may be submitted
under section 4 (b);




(e)

prescribing the fee referred to in section 7 (3) (b);




(f)

respecting procedures for the conduct of an auction, including




(i)

how to determine successful bids,




(ii)

how to calculate the amount that a successful bidder must pay for the
right to apply for a special wine store licence,




(iii)

how to determine the priority of unsuccessful bidders on the record of
unsuccessful bidders, and




(iv)

any contractual rights or obligations of the government or a bidder
arising on acceptance of a bid at the auction;




(g)

prescribing the time periods for the purposes of sections 9 and 10 (a)
andÂ (b);




(h)

providing for exceptions to the forfeiture of deposits under section
12;




(i)

remedying any difficulty encountered in the conduct of an auction or
in the administration of this Act.






Power to make rules




16


The general manager may make rules respecting procedures for the
conduct of an auction, including




(a)

how to determine successful bids,




(b)

how to calculate the amount that a successful bidder must pay for the
right to apply for a special wine store licence,




(c)

how to determine the priority of unsuccessful bidders on the record of
unsuccessful bidders, and




(d)

any contractual rights or obligations of the government or a bidder
arising on acceptance of a bid at the auction.






Regulations prevail




17


If there is any conflict between the rules made by the general manager
and the regulations, the regulations prevail.




Related Amendment









[Note: See Table of Legislative Changes for the status of section
18.]









Section(s)





Affected Act






18




Liquor Control and Licensing Act









Repeal by regulation




19


This Act may be repealed by regulation of the Lieutenant Governor in
Council.






Commencement




20


This Act comes into force by regulation of the Lieutenant Governor in
Council.




