




Victims of Crime Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 478






Definitions




1


In this Act:


"accused"
means a person who is charged with an offence;


"child"
includes




(a)

a child of a victim born after the death of the victim,




(b)

a stepchild of a victim, and




(c)

a person who, although not a child of the victim, is like a child to
the victim;



"justice system personnel"

means auxiliary constables, chief constables, chief officers,
designated constables, enforcement officers, municipal constables,
provincial constables, special municipal constables and special
provincial constables as defined in section 1 of the

Police Act

and persons working in positions designated by the Attorney General;


"offence"
means, except in section 15, a contravention, that harmed a victim, of
an enactment of British Columbia or Canada;


"offender"
means a person convicted of an offence;


"parent"
includes




(a)

a stepparent of the victim,




(b)

a person who has, in law or in fact, the guardianship or custody of
the victim or who is responsible for the care or financial support of
the victim, and




(c)

a person who, although not a parent of the victim, is like a parent to
the victim;


"sentence"
includes a sentence as defined in the

Youth Criminal Justice Act

(Canada) or the

Youth Justice Act

;



"special account"

means the Victim Surcharge Special Account established under
section 9;


"spouse"
means a person who




(a)

is married to another person, or




(b)

is living with another person in a marriage-like relationship;


"victim"
means an individual who suffers, in relation to an offence,




(a)

physical or mental injury or economic loss as a result of an act or
omission that forms the basis of the offence, or




(b)

significant emotional trauma and is an individual against whom the
offence was perpetrated or, with respect to an individual against whom
the offence was perpetrated, is a spouse, sibling, child or parent of
the individual,


but does not include a person listed within the definition of "justice
system personnel" in relation to an offence to which the person
responds in the line of duty;



"victim service"

means a service that is designed to assist victims and is provided or
funded by the government.






Right to courtesy and respect




2


All justice system personnel must treat a victim with courtesy and
respect and must not discriminate against a victim on the basis of
race, colour, ancestry, place of origin, religion, marital status,
family status, physical or mental disability, gender, sexual
orientation, political belief or age.






Legal representation of victims




3


On request by a victim, the Attorney General must take reasonable
measures to ensure that the victim is provided with advice and
representation by a lawyer if




(a)

the victim requires representation independent from that of Crown
counsel in response to an application for disclosure of information,
not in the possession of the police or Crown counsel, relating to the
personal history of the victim, and




(b)

the victim would not otherwise receive this representation because of
a lack of financial resources.






Presentation of the victim's perception of the impact of the offence




4


Crown counsel must ensure that a victim is given a reasonable
opportunity to have admissible evidence concerning the impact of the
offence, as perceived by the victim, presented to the court before
sentence is imposed for the offence.






Information that must be offered




5


Justice system personnel must offer a victim general information
concerning




(a)

the structure and operation of the justice system,




(b)

victim services,




(c)

the

Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act

,




(d)

the

Crime Victim Assistance Act

, and




(e)

this Act.






Information that must be given on request




6

(1)


Subject to the

Youth Criminal Justice Act

(Canada) and insofar as this does not prejudice an investigation or
prosecution of an offence, justice system personnel must arrange, on
request, for a victim to obtain information on the following matters
relating to the offence:




(a)

the status of the police investigation;




(b)

the specific counts with which the accused is charged or for which the
offender is convicted;




(c)

the reasons why a decision was made respecting charges;




(d)

the name of the accused;




(e)

the date, location and reasons for each court appearance that is
likely to affect the final disposition, sentence or bail status of the
accused;




(f)

the outcome of each court appearance that is likely to affect the
final disposition, sentence or bail status of the accused;




(g)

the length of any sentence that the offender is serving and the date
the sentence began;




(h)

the means for the victim to report breaches of the terms of
supervision by the offender released under supervision;




(i)

the means to contact agencies that may grant or amend conditions of
parole or authorize release from custody of the offender;




(j)

the eligibility and review dates applicable to the offender and how to
make representations in any proceedings that may lead to a change in
the custodial status or release conditions of the offender.




(2)

Subject to the

Youth Criminal Justice Act

(Canada), justice system personnel must arrange, on request, for a
victim to obtain copies of orders and permits setting conditions for
the accused or offender that are relevant to the safety of the victim.






Information that will be given in appropriate circumstances




7

(1)


The minister charged with the administration of the

Correction Act

or the designate of the minister must give the following information
relating to the offence to a victim on request if, in the opinion of
the person giving the information, the interests of the victim
outweigh the privacy interest of the accused or offender in the
circumstances:




(a)

whether the offender is in custody and, if the offender is in custody,
the name and address of the institution where the sentence is being
served;




(b)

if the accused or offender is in custody and is to be released, the
date the release will begin, the length of the release and the terms
of supervision during that release;




(c)

if the accused or offender is released from custody under supervision
and the terms of supervision are to change, the nature of the change
and the date the change begins;




(d)

if the offender is or will be on supervised probation, parole or
temporary absence, the area of British Columbia where the offender may
be and whether the offender will be in the vicinity of the victim
while travelling to that area.




(2)

Subsection (1) applies despite the

Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act

but is subject to the

Youth Criminal Justice Act

(Canada).






Goals




8


To the extent that it is practicable, the government must promote the
following goals:




(a)

to develop victim services and promote equal access to victim services
at all locations throughout British Columbia;




(b)

to have victims adequately protected against intimidation and
retaliation;




(c)

to have property of victims obtained by offenders in the course of
offences returned promptly to the victims by the police if the
retention is not needed for investigation or prosecution purposes;




(d)

to have justice system personnel trained to respond appropriately to
victims;




(e)

to give proper recognition to the need of victims for timely
investigation and prosecution of offences;




(f)

to have facilities in courthouses that accommodate victims awaiting
courtroom appearance separately from the accused and witnesses for the
accused;




(g)

to afford victims throughout British Columbia equal access to




(i)

courtrooms and prosecutors' offices that are designed to be used by
persons with physical disabilities,




(ii)

interpreters for speakers of any language, and




(iii)

culturally sensitive services for aboriginal persons and members of
ethno-cultural minorities.






Victim surcharge levy




8.1

(1)


If a fine is imposed on a person under a prescribed enactment of
British Columbia, the person must pay to the government, at the time
and place where the fine is payable, a victim surcharge levy
calculated in accordance with the prescribed formula.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), if a person pays or is obligated to
pay a fine under the

Offence Act

, the person must pay to the government, at the time and place where
the fine is payable, a victim surcharge levy calculated in accordance
with the prescribed formula.




(3) to (6)

[Repealed 1997-10-29.]






Victim Surcharge Special Account




9

(1)


The Victim Surcharge Special Account is continued as a special account
of the consolidated revenue fund.




(2)

The Attorney General must pay into the special account money paid to
the government under section 8.1.




(3)

The special account consists of




(a)

payments made by the Attorney General under subsection (2),




(b)

victim fine surcharge money that under section 737 of the

Criminal Code

the Lieutenant Governor in Council directs be paid into the special
account,




(b.1)

payments made by the Minister of Finance under section 17

[payments from trust fund to Victim Surcharge Special Account]

of the

Profits of Criminal Notoriety Act

,




(c)

donations people make to the special account,




(d)

any money transferred to the special account from a vote, as defined
in the

Financial Administration Act

, and




(e)

any interest and other income of the special account.




(4)

The Attorney General may pay money out of the special account to do
one or more of the following:




(a)

defray the costs incurred under sections 3 to 8;




(b)

pay costs associated with the administration of the special account;




(c)

provide funding, directly or indirectly, to a service or project, all
or any part of which may benefit victims or lead to the development of
services that may benefit victims.




(5)

Subsection (4) applies despite section 21 (3) of the

Financial Administration Act

.




(6)

The special account must not be used to provide direct compensation to
individual victims.




(7)

The cumulative total of amounts paid out of the special account under
subsection (4) must not exceed the cumulative total of money paid into
the special account under subsection (3).






No cause of action created by this Act




10


Subject to section 82 (7) of the

Offence Act

, no cause of action, right of appeal, claim for damages or other
remedy in law exists because of this Act or anything done or omitted
to be done under this Act.






Validity of proceeding, etc.




11

(1)


A proceeding in respect of an offence must not be delayed or held to
be invalid on the grounds that a right granted by this Act has been
infringed or denied or that this Act has not been complied with, and
the court must not make an order respecting the conduct of that
proceeding or the validity or propriety of an order, conviction,
sentence or any other thing done in that proceeding on those grounds.




(2)

An order, conviction or sentence may not be appealed on the grounds
that a right granted by this Act has been infringed or denied.






Ombudsperson




12

(1)


The

Ombudsperson Act

applies to this Act.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), the Ombudsperson must refuse to investigate
the appropriateness of a decision by a member of the Criminal Justice
Branch of the Ministry of Attorney General, or a special prosecutor as
described in section 7 of the

Crown Counsel Act

,




(a)

to approve the prosecution of an offence,




(b)

to decline to approve the prosecution of an offence,




(c)

to delay proceeding with the prosecution of an offence,




(d)

to stay the prosecution of an offence,




(e)

to conduct or decline to conduct an appeal or other proceeding in
respect of an offence, or




(f)

to exercise any other aspect of prosecutorial discretion.






Annual report




13


The annual report under section 6 of the

Attorney General Act

must include a report on the administration of this Act.






Employers are not to penalize




14


An employer must not discharge, suspend, intimidate, coerce, impose
any financial or other penalty on or otherwise discriminate against an
employee because that person is absent from work




(a)

to appear in court as a witness in a proceeding respecting an offence,
or




(b)

to attend at a meeting with justice system personnel at the request of
those personnel to assist in an investigation or preparation for the
prosecution of an offence.






Offence




15

(1)


A person who contravenes section 14 commits an offence and is liable
on conviction to a fine of not more than $2 000 or to
imprisonment for a term of not more than 6 months or to both.




(2)

Section 5 of the

Offence Act

does not apply to the Act.






Power to make regulations




16

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
section 41 of the

Interpretation Act

.




(2)

Without limiting the generality of subsection (1), the Lieutenant
Governor in Council may make regulations as follows:




(a)

prescribing an enactment for the purposes of section 8.1 (1);




(b)

prescribing the formula for the purposes of section 8.1 (1) and (2);




(c)

[Repealed 1997-3-4.]




