




Youth Justice Act
[SBC 2003] CHAPTER 85


Assented to November 17, 2003






Definitions




1


In this Act:


"adult"
means a person who has reached 18 years of age;



"authorized person"

means the person in charge of the youth custody centre and includes




(a)

a staff member designated by the person in charge of the youth custody
centre to exercise the powers and perform the duties and functions
under section 32.1, 32.2, 32.3, 32.4, 32.5 or 34, and




(b)

a member of a class of persons designated by the person in charge of
the youth custody centre to exercise the powers and perform the duties
and functions under section 32.1, 32.2, 32.3, 32.4, 32.5 or 34;


"contraband"
means any of the following:




(a)

an intoxicant;




(b)

if possessed without prior authorization, a weapon, any component of a
weapon or ammunition for a weapon, or anything that is designed to
kill, injure or disable or is altered so as to be capable of killing,
injuring or disabling;




(c)

an explosive or bomb, or any component of an explosive or bomb;




(d)

if possessed without prior authorization, any currency;




(e)

if possessed without prior authorization, tobacco leaves or any
products produced from tobacco in any form or for any use;




(f)

if possessed without prior authorization, any other substance or thing
that, in the opinion of the person in charge of a youth custody
centre, may threaten the management, operation, discipline or security
of, or safety of persons in, the youth custody centre;



"correctional centre"

has the same meaning as in the

Correction Act

;



"federal Act"

means the

Youth Criminal Justice Act

(Canada);



"federal offence"

means an offence as defined by the federal Act;


"offence"
means the contravention of an enactment;


"parent"
includes a person who, in respect of a young person,




(a)

is under a legal duty to support, maintain or care for the young
person, or




(b)

has, in law or fact, the custody or control of the young person,


but does not include a person who has the custody or control of the
young person only because of proceedings under this Act or the federal
Act;



"provincial director"

means a provincial director for British Columbia as defined in
section 2 (1) of the federal Act;


"sentence"
means,




(a)

in Part 1, a sentence imposed under section 8 (2) or (3) and
includes an order made on a review under section 15 (8), and




(b)

in Part 3 or Part 4, a sentence referred to in paragraph (a) or a
sentence imposed under the federal Act;



"staff member"

means a person holding an appointment under section 24 (1) and
employed in a youth custody centre;



"violation ticket"

has the same meaning as in section 1 of the

Offence Act

;



"young person"

means a person who has reached 12 years of age but is less than 18
years of age;



"young person communication"

means communication by mail or electronic means between a young person
and another person, other than a privileged communication specified
under section 44 (2) (l.2);



"youth custody centre"

means a place of custody designated under the federal Act by the
Lieutenant Governor in Council or a delegate of the Lieutenant
Governor in Council;



"youth probation officer"

means a person appointed as a youth probation officer under
section 24 (1) (a).




Part 1 — Offence Proceedings Against Young Persons





No proceedings against a child




2


Despite any other enactment,




(a)

proceedings must not be commenced against a person for, and




(b)

a person must not be found guilty of,


an offence which the person was alleged to have committed when the
person was less than 12 years of age.






Application of this Part




3

(1)


If a young person is alleged to have committed an offence, proceedings
may be commenced against the young person as provided in an enactment,
and, except as otherwise provided for in this Act, the proceedings
must be conducted in accordance with that enactment.




(2)

Subsection (1) applies even if the young person becomes an adult




(a)

before or after proceedings have been commenced, or




(b)

during the period of time when the young person is subject to a
sentence.






Application of other legislation




4

(1)


If proceedings are commenced respecting an offence alleged to have
been committed by a young person, sections 27, 110 to 112, 114 to 116,
118 to 127, 129 and 148 to 151 of the federal Act, and any other
provisions of that Act prescribed by the Lieutenant Governor in
Council, apply to those proceedings, and sections 57 (2), 68 (a), 79,
88 (2) and 112 of the

Offence Act

do not apply to those proceedings.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1), the reference to "peace officer"
in section 119 (1) (g) of the federal Act includes a conservation
officer as defined in section 1 (1) of the

Environment Management Act

.




(3)

If this Part provides that an Act or an Act of Canada applies, it
applies with the necessary changes and so far as applicable.






Notice to parents




5

(1)


Subject to subsections (2) and (3), if a young person charged with an
offence is required by court process to appear in court, the person
who issued the process must as soon as possible give to a parent of
the young person, if a parent is available, written notice of the
charge against the young person and the time and place of the young
person's court appearance.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply if the proceedings in respect of the
offence are commenced by means of a violation ticket.




(3)

If a young person is arrested and detained in custody until an
appearance in court, the officer in charge at the time the young
person is detained must as soon as possible give to a parent of the
young person, if a parent is available, written or oral notice of the
arrest stating the place of detention and the reason for the arrest.




(4)

Failure to give the notice required in subsection (1) or (3) does not
affect the validity of the proceedings against the young person.






Pretrial examination and report




6

(1)


A prosecutor may request a youth probation officer, or another person
or agency designated by a provincial director for the purpose of this
section, to examine and report to the prosecutor, before the trial
commences, the facts and circumstances of a case in which a young
person is charged with or alleged to have committed an offence or a
federal offence, including information respecting the young person's
background.




(2)

Subject to subsection (3), the youth probation officer, person or
agency referred to in subsection (1) must, before the trial commences,




(a)

examine the facts and circumstances referred to in subsection (1), and




(b)

submit a report to the prosecutor.




(3)

If the case referred to in subsection (1) is one in which the young
person is not charged with or alleged to have committed any federal
offence, the requirements of subsection (2) do not apply unless the
youth probation officer, person or agency has consented to conducting
the examination.




(4)

A youth probation officer, person or agency referred to in this
section is not a competent or compellable witness in any proceeding
before a court respecting any information obtained under this section.




(5)

If, after the examination, the youth probation officer, person or
agency under this section is of the opinion that it is in the best
interests of the young person and not contrary to the public interest
that action other than a prosecution of the young person be taken, the
youth probation officer, person or agency must recommend it to the
prosecutor.




(6)

If a young person is not prosecuted on the recommendation of a youth
probation officer, person or agency referred to in this section, the
youth probation officer, person or agency may enter into an
arrangement with the young person to assist in resolving the young
person's conflict with the law.






Pre-sentence report




7

(1)


A court that finds a young person guilty of an offence




(a)

may, if it considers it necessary, and




(b)

must, before making a custody order under section 8 (2) (e),


require a youth probation officer to provide the court with a
pre-sentence report respecting the facts and circumstances of the
offence, including information respecting the young person's
background.




(2)

Despite subsection (1) (b), the court may, with the consent of the
prosecutor and the young person or the young person's counsel,
dispense with a pre-sentence report if the court is satisfied that the
report is not necessary.




(3)

In requiring a pre-sentence report under subsection (1), the court may
specify that the youth probation officer




(a)

give the report orally in person or, if the technology is available
and the probation officer consents, by any technological means that
allows the court, the parties and the youth probation officer to
communicate simultaneously, or




(b)

submit the report in writing.




(4)

If the court does not specify under subsection (3) the means or manner
in which the pre-sentence report is to be provided, the probation
officer may provide the report orally or in writing as the probation
officer considers appropriate in the circumstances.




(5)

A youth probation officer is not a compellable witness in any
proceeding before a court respecting any information obtained under
this section except for purposes of a sentence, a review of a sentence
or an appeal of a sentence respecting the specific offence.






Sentence




8

(1)


If a court finds a young person guilty of an offence, the court must
impose a sentence consisting of one or more of the orders described
under subsection (2) or (3) and no other orders.




(2)

The court may do one or more of the following in relation to a young
person guilty of an offence:




(a)

direct that the young person be given an absolute discharge or,
subject to section 10, be given a conditional discharge, if




(i)

the offence is not one for which a minimum penalty is required to be
imposed on an adult convicted of that offence, and




(ii)

the court considers it to be in the best interest of the young person
and not contrary to the public interest;




(b)

subject to section 11, impose on the young person a fine of not more
than $1 000 to be paid at the time and on the terms that the court
specifies in the order;




(c)

subject to section 12, order the young person to do all of the
following:




(i)

perform community services to a maximum of 240 hours within a
specified period of not longer than one year and on terms the court
specifies in the order;




(ii)

report to and be supervised by a provincial director or another person
designated by the court for this purpose;




(d)

subject to section 10, order the young person to be placed on
probation for a specified period of not longer than 6 months;




(e)

subject to section 13, commit the young person to custody for a
specified period of not more than 30 days if the offence is




(i)

under section 17 (1)
[failure to comply with a youth sentence]
or 33 (a), (b), (c) or (d)
[contraband in or trespass of a youth custody centre]
of this Act,




(ii)

under section 21 (a), (b), (c) or (d) of the

Correction Act

[contraband in or trespass of a correctional centre]
,




(iii)

under section 17 (1) of the

Mental Health Act


[unlawfully assists, aids or counsels a patient in leaving a mental
health facility]

, or




(iv)

under section 177 (3) of the

School Act

as it relates to a contravention of section 177 (2) of that Act
[trespassing on school grounds]
;




(f)

subject to section 13, commit the young person to custody for a
specified period of not more than 90 days if the offence is




(i)

under section 102 (1) (a) or (e) of the

Child, Family and Community Services Act


[contravening protective intervention orders or restraining orders]

, or




(ii)

under section 95 (1), 102 or 234 (1) of the

Motor Vehicle Act

[driving while prohibited or suspended]
;




(g)

subject to subsection (4) and section 14, if the offence is under the

Motor Vehicle Act

, prohibit the young person from driving a motor vehicle for a
specified period.




(3)

Subject to section 14, if the young person is found guilty of an
offence under section 100 of the

Motor Vehicle Act

, the court must make an order prohibiting the young person from
driving a motor vehicle for a period of 2 years.




(4)

If a young person is found guilty of an offence under section 83 of
the

Motor Vehicle Act

, the court must not prohibit the person from driving a motor vehicle
under subsection (2) (g) of this section.




(5)

The court must not impose a sentence that results in punishment being
imposed on a young person that is greater than the maximum punishment
that could be imposed on an adult convicted of the same offence.




(6)

Section 730 of the

Criminal Code

applies to an absolute or conditional discharge order made under this
Act.






Effective date of sentence




9

(1)


Subject to this section, a sentence is effective on the date on which
it is imposed by the court.




(2)

If a young person in respect of whom an order under section 8 (2) (c)
or (d)
[community service or probation]
is made is already committed to custody to be served continuously,
either under the federal Act or this Act, the order is effective on
the date the period of custody expires.






Sentence — conditional discharge or probation order




10

(1)


In an order for a conditional discharge under section 8 (2) (a) or a
probation order under section 8 (2) (d), the court




(a)

must require the young person to




(i)

keep the peace and be of good behaviour, and




(ii)

appear before the court when required by the court to do so, and




(b)

may require the young person to do one or more of the following that
the court considers appropriate in the circumstances:




(i)

report to and be under the supervision of a youth probation officer or
other person designated by the court;




(ii)

notify the court, the provincial director or a youth probation officer
assigned to the young person's case of a change in the young person's
address or a change in the young person's place of employment,
education or training;




(iii)

remain within British Columbia;




(iv)

make reasonable efforts to obtain and maintain suitable employment;




(v)

attend a school or other place of education, training or recreation
with the prior consent of the officials of the school or place;




(vi)

reside with a parent, or with an adult whom the court considers
appropriate, who is willing to provide for the care and maintenance of
the young person;




(vii)

reside in a place the provincial director specifies;




(viii)

make restitution to an aggrieved or injured person for the actual loss
or damage caused by the commission of the offence;




(ix)

comply with any other conditions set out in the order that the court
considers appropriate, including conditions for securing the young
person's good conduct and for preventing the young person from
repeating the offence or committing other offences.




(2)

If a young person is required, by an order for a conditional discharge
or a probation order, to appear before the court, the court must give
a notice to appear, or require that a notice of appearance be given,
to the young person.




(3)

If a young person does not appear at the time and place named in a
notice under subsection (2), the court may issue a warrant to compel
the young person's appearance.






Sentence — fines




11


The court may, on an application made without notice to anyone, extend
the time for payment of a fine imposed under section 8 (2) (b).






Sentence — community work




12


The court must not require a young person to perform community
services under section 8 (2) (c) unless




(a)

the community services are part of a community service program under
section 28 (1) (b) or are otherwise approved by a provincial director
for this purpose, and




(b)

the court considers that




(i)

the young person is a suitable person to perform the community
services, and




(ii)

the terms of the sentence do not interfere with the normal hours of
work or education of the young person.






Sentence — custody




13

(1)


A young person who is committed to custody under section 8 (2) (e) or
(f) is committed to custody to be served continuously.




(2)

If the court commits a young person to custody under section 8 (2) (e)
or (f), the court must issue or require the issue of a warrant of
committal.




(3)

Subject to sections 29
[certificate of health]
and 31
[receiving and moving young persons in custody]
, a young person in custody under a court order must be




(a)

detained in a youth custody centre that the provincial director
specifies, and




(b)

held separate and apart from an adult who, as an adult, is charged
with or convicted of an offence or a federal offence.






Sentence — driving prohibition




14


If the court makes an order prohibiting a young person from driving a
motor vehicle under section 8 (2) (g) or (3), the court must order
that the prohibition




(a)

continue for the full day of each day of the prohibition, and




(b)

continue for consecutive days.






Review of sentence by court




15

(1)


On the application of a young person, of a parent of the young person
or of the Attorney General, the court may review the young person's
sentence if the court considers such a review to be appropriate in the
circumstances.




(2)

An application under subsection (1) may be made




(a)

at any time after




(i)

3 months after the date of the sentence, or




(ii)

in the case of a sentence of custody under section 8 (2) (e) or (f),
the greater of the following has been served:




(A)

15 days of the sentence;




(B)

one third of the sentence, or




(b)

with leave of the court, before the times described in paragraph (a)
(i) or (ii).




(3)

If the application under subsection (1) is for the review of a
prohibition made under section 8 (2) (g) or (3) against driving a
motor vehicle, the court may review the sentence only if the terms of
the sentence are adversely affecting the young person's opportunities
to obtain counselling, medical services, education or employment.




(4)

Unless otherwise ordered by the court, an applicant who requests a
review under subsection (1) must give at least 5 days' written notice
of the application to




(a)

the young person,




(b)

a parent of the young person, if one is available,




(c)

the Attorney General, by serving the notice on the office of Crown
Counsel located nearest to the place where the sentence was made, and




(d)

the provincial director, by serving the notice on




(i)

the office of the youth probation officer who is supervising the young
person, or




(ii)

the person in charge of the youth custody centre where the young
person is held in custody.




(5)

The applicant under subsection (4) must use a method of service that
provides proof of delivery of the notices under subsection (4) (c) and
(d).




(6)

Before reviewing a sentence, the court may require a youth probation
officer to make a progress report on the performance of the young
person for the period since the sentence was made.




(7)

The court may issue a summons or warrant to compel a young person to
appear before the court for purposes of the review.




(8)

After affording the young person, a parent of the young person and the
Attorney General an opportunity to be heard on a review, the court may
confirm, rescind or vary the sentence or make a new sentence.




(9)

If the court varies a sentence or makes a new sentence under
subsection (8),




(a)

the court must not make an order which is more onerous than that of
the sentence under review, and




(b)

sections 8 (2), (4) and (5), 13 and 14 apply.




(10)

If a sentence, or the finding of guilt leading to a sentence, is under
appeal, the court must not review the sentence until the appeal has
been disposed of.






Transfer of sentence




16

(1)


If




(a)

a sentence has been made in respect of a young person, and




(b)

the young person or a parent with whom the young person resides is or
becomes a resident of a reciprocating province,


on the application of the Attorney General, of the young person or of
the parent, the court may transfer the sentence to the Attorney
General in the reciprocating province.




(2)

A sentence must not be transferred to a reciprocating province under
this section until




(a)

the time for an appeal against




(i)

the sentence, or




(ii)

the finding on which the sentence was based

has expired,



(b)

all proceedings in respect of an appeal, if taken, have been
completed, or




(c)

the appeal has been abandoned.




(3)

If




(a)

a sentence has been made in respect of a young person by a court in a
reciprocating province, and




(b)

a certified copy of the sentence has been transmitted by the proper
officer of the reciprocating province to the Attorney General,


the Attorney General must send the certified copy of the sentence for
registration to the Provincial Court.




(4)

A sentence registered under subsection (3) has the same effect as, and
subject to this Act all proceedings may be taken on it as if it had
been, a sentence originally obtained in the Provincial Court, and the
court has the power to enforce, review and vary the order accordingly.




(5)

The Attorney General may, by order, declare a province to be a
reciprocating province for purposes of this section.






Offence of failing to comply with sentence




17

(1)


A young person who fails or refuses to comply with a sentence or any
term or condition of it, other than a sentence referred to in
subsection (2), commits an offence.




(2)

A young person who drives a motor vehicle on a highway or industrial
road while the young person is prohibited by a sentence from driving
commits an offence under section 102 of the

Motor Vehicle Act

.






Appeals




18


The appeal provisions of the

Offence Act

apply to this Part.






Proof of age




19


Information recorded anywhere on a violation ticket respecting the age
of the person alleged to have committed an offence is proof of the age
of the person.






Effect of proceedings if age incorrectly presumed




20

(1)


If




(a)

proceedings are commenced against a person who is alleged to have been
a young person at the time the offence was committed, and




(b)

it is determined, at any time before a sentence is rendered in the
matter, that the person against whom the charge was brought was not a
young person at the time of the alleged offence,

the proceedings must be



(c)

dismissed if the person is determined to have been less than 12 years
of age at the relevant time, or




(d)

continued if the person is determined to have been an adult at the
relevant time, except that this Part no longer applies to the
proceedings.




(2)

Proceedings continued under subsection (1) (d) are valid even though
the matter was dealt with under this Part before the person's age was
determined.




(3)

If




(a)

proceedings are commenced against a person who was not alleged to have
been a young person at the time the offence was committed, and




(b)

it is determined, at any time before a sentence is rendered in the
matter, that the person against whom the charge was brought was a
young person at the time of the alleged offence,


the proceedings must be continued, except that they must be continued
under this Part.




(4)

Proceedings continued under subsection (3) are valid even though the
matter was not dealt with under this Part before the person's age was
determined.






Destruction of documents




21


Despite the

Information Management Act

, records created or maintained under this Part in respect of an
offence committed by a young person may be destroyed after the
expiration of




(a)

a sentence made in respect of that specific offence, or




(b)

if the Lieutenant Governor in Council prescribes another period of
time, that prescribed period.






Notices




22


A notice required to be given under section 5 (1) or 10 (2) may be
given by registered mail or any other method of service that provides
proof of delivery.






Forms




23

(1)


If forms are not prescribed under section 44 (2) (a) of this Act, the
forms set out in the

Offence Act

, the federal Act and Part XXVIII of the

Criminal Code

may be used with modifications that the circumstances require for the
purposes of this Part.




(2)

If varied to suit specific circumstances, prescribed forms or forms
used under subsection (1) are valid in the circumstances for which
they are provided.




Part 2 — Youth Probation Officers and Youth Justice Staff





Youth probation officers and other officers and employees




24

(1)


The minister may appoint




(a)

persons, or persons within a class of persons, to be youth probation
officers, and




(b)

other officers and employees the minister considers necessary to
exercise powers and perform duties under this Act and the federal Act.




(2)

In an appointment under subsection (1), the minister may




(a)

limit the powers and duties that a person, officer or employee may
exercise under this Act or the federal Act, and




(b)

make the appointment subject to terms and conditions.




(3)

Persons, officers and employees appointed to exercise powers and
perform duties under this Act or the federal Act are peace officers
while exercising those powers and performing those duties.






Powers and duties of youth probation officers




25


Subject to any limitations, terms and conditions imposed on the
appointment under section 24 (2), a youth probation officer




(a)

is a youth probation officer for all of British Columbia,




(b)

is an officer of every court in British Columbia,




(c)

is designated a youth worker for purposes of the

Youth Criminal Justice Act

(Canada),




(d)

must prepare reports for the court as the court may order,




(e)

has power to procure and report information for the court in respect
of a young person,




(e.1)

has the powers and duties of a probation officer under section 4 of
the

Correction Act

, as applicable and required, and




(f)

has the additional powers prescribed by regulation under section 44
(2) (d).






Protection of officials in duties




26

(1)


No action for damages lies or may be brought against a person holding
an appointment under section 24 (1) (a) or (b) because of anything
done or omitted




(a)

in the performance or intended performance of a duty under this Act,
or




(b)

in the exercise or intended exercise of a power under this Act,


unless the thing was done or omitted in bad faith.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not absolve the government from vicarious
liability for an act or omission for which it would be vicariously
liable if this section were not in force.






Repealed




27


[Repealed 2004-46-39.]




Part 3 — Youth Justice Programs





Programs for young persons




28

(1)


The minister may establish programs or services for or related to
young persons, including but not limited to one or more of the
following:




(a)

an alternative measures or extrajudicial sanctions program;




(b)

a community service program;




(c)

a restitution or compensation program;




(d)

a victim and offender mediation or reconciliation program;




(e)

a day or residential attendance program;




(f)

a community supervision program;




(g)

an intensive support and supervision program;




(h)

a pretrial bail supervision or hostel program;




(i)

a pretrial detention program;




(j)

an open or secure custody program;




(k)

a youth custody incentive or monetary program;




(l)

any other program or service that provides for the administration and
supervision of young persons who are subject to sentences.




(2)

The

Labour Relations Code

, the

Public Service Labour Relations Act

and the

Employment Standards Act

do not apply to young persons in respect of or due to their
participation in any program or service under this Act.




(3)

Subject to section 37
[inspection of youth custody centres]
, the minister may provide for the inspection of the programs and
services referred to in subsection (1) on a periodic basis that the
minister considers appropriate in the circumstances.




(4)

For the purpose of inspections under subsection (3), section 37
applies with all the necessary changes.




Part 4 — Youth Custody



Division 1 — Receiving and Moving Young Persons in Custody





Certificate of health on receipt at youth custody centre




29

(1)


The person in charge of a youth custody centre is not required to
accept a young person into custody under a warrant of committal unless
a certificate of a medical practitioner or nurse practitioner
certifies for that young person all of the following:




(a)

the state of health of the young person;




(b)

that the young person is fit for transfer;




(c)

that the young person is free from infectious or contagious disease.




(2)

A young person sentenced to custody in, or ordered by competent
authority to be conveyed to, a youth custody centre from any other
jail, prison or lockup may remain and be kept in lawful custody, in
the jail, prison or lockup from which the young person was sentenced
or ordered to be conveyed, until the certificate of health required by
this section has been provided.






Care of youth admitted to custody centre




30


A young person who is admitted to a youth custody centre is subject to
the care, control and custody of the government, and all rights and
powers of care, control and custody of a parent or guardian over the
young person cease until that young person is released on completion
of the young person's term of custody under the court order.






Receiving and moving young persons in custody




31

(1)


Each youth custody centre may receive young persons from any part of
British Columbia.




(2)

A provincial director may, during a young person's period of custody,
transfer the young person from one youth custody centre to another.




(3)

If a young person committed to custody under section 8 (2) (e) or (f)
becomes an adult, a provincial director may transfer the person to a
correctional centre to serve the person's custody order or any balance
of it.






Detention agreements




32

(1)


On behalf of the government, the minister may enter into an agreement
with a municipality, for the detention in a youth custody centre of
persons whose detention is chargeable to the municipality, on terms
for reimbursement of expenses as may be mutually agreeable.




(2)

Agreements similar to those authorized under subsection (1) may be
made for reimbursing municipalities for the expenses of detention in a
municipal lockup of persons from in or outside the municipality whose
detention is chargeable to the government.




(3)

All persons lawfully acting under any agreement referred to in
subsection (1) or (2) have full authority to detain persons and are
empowered to do so.




(4)

Lockups and other institutions used for the purpose of agreements made
under this section are places of detention for the purposes and
localities specified in the agreement.




Division 1.1 — Security Measures





Search of young persons




32.1

(1)


On admission, entry or return of a young person to a youth custody
centre, an authorized person must conduct a search of the young person
and any personal possessions, including clothing, that the young
person may be carrying or wearing.




(2)

For the purpose of detecting contraband, the authorized person may
without individualized suspicion conduct periodic searches of




(a)

a young person and any personal possessions, including clothing, that
the young person may be carrying or wearing, and




(b)

the young person's room and its contents.




(3)

If an authorized person believes on reasonable grounds that a young
person may be in possession of contraband or evidence relating to an
offence under section 33, the authorized person may conduct a search
of any of the following, as necessary in the circumstances:




(a)

the young person and any personal possessions, including clothing,
that the young person may be carrying or wearing;




(b)

the young person's room and its contents.




(4)

A search under subsection (1) or (3) may include a strip search
conducted in accordance with the regulations.




(5)

A strip search of a young person must be conducted by an authorized
person of the same sex as the young person unless the delay that would
be caused by complying with this requirement would result in danger to
human life or safety.






Search and detention of visitors




32.2

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), an authorized person may, for security or
safety purposes and without individualized suspicion, conduct routine
searches of a visitor entering or leaving or in the youth custody
centre and of any personal possessions, including clothing, that the
visitors may be carrying or wearing.




(2)

If a visitor refuses to undergo a search under subsection (1), the
authorized person may




(a)

prohibit a contact visit with a young person and authorize a
non-contact visit, or




(b)

request the visitor to leave the youth custody centre immediately.




(3)

A visitor must comply with a request made under subsection (2) (b).




(4)

If an authorized person believes on reasonable grounds that a visitor
is carrying contraband or is in possession of evidence relating to an
offence under section 33,




(a)

the authorized person may, with the visitor's consent, conduct a
search of the visitor and any personal possessions, including
clothing, that the visitor may be wearing or carrying, in order to
find the contraband or evidence, or




(b)

the person in charge of the youth custody centre may authorize the
detention of the visitor in order to obtain the services of the
police.




(5)

With the visitor's consent, a search under subsection (4) (a) may
include a strip search conducted in accordance with the regulations.




(6)

A strip search of a visitor must be conducted by an authorized person
of the same sex as the visitor unless the delay that would be caused
by complying with this requirement would result in danger to human
life or safety.




(7)

If contraband or evidence relating to an offence under section 33 is
found in a search under subsection (1) or (4) (a) of this section, the
person in charge of the youth custody centre may authorize the further
detention of the visitor in order to obtain the services of the
police.




(8)

A person detained under this section must




(a)

be informed promptly of the reasons for the detention and of the
person's right to retain and instruct counsel, and




(b)

be given a reasonable opportunity to retain and instruct counsel.






Search and detention of staff members




32.3

(1)


In this section,
"staff member"
includes a person providing a service in a youth custody centre under
a contract with the minister.




(2)

An authorized person may without individualized suspicion conduct




(a)

routine searches, authorized for security or safety purposes by the
person in charge of the youth custody centre, of staff members
entering or leaving or in the youth custody centre and of any personal
possessions, including clothing, that staff members may be carrying or
wearing, and




(b)

random searches, authorized for security or safety purposes by the
person in charge of the youth custody centre, of staff members'
lockers.




(3)

A staff member must not impede or obstruct an authorized person
conducting a search under subsection (2).




(4)

If an authorized person believes on reasonable grounds that a staff
member is carrying contraband or is in possession of evidence relating
to an offence under section 33,




(a)

the authorized person may, with the staff member's consent, conduct a
search of the staff member, the staff member's locker in the youth
custody centre and any personal possessions, including clothing, that
the staff member may be wearing or carrying, in order to find the
contraband or evidence, or




(b)

the person in charge of the youth custody centre may authorize the
detention of the staff member in order to obtain the services of the
police.




(5)

With the staff member's consent, a search under subsection (4) (a) may
include a strip search conducted in accordance with the regulations.




(6)

A strip search of a staff member must be conducted by an authorized
person of the same sex as the staff member unless the delay that would
be caused by complying with this requirement would result in danger to
human life or safety.




(7)

If contraband or evidence relating to an offence under section 33 is
found in a search under subsection (2) or (4) (a) of this section, the
person in charge of the youth custody centre may authorize the further
detention of the staff member in order to obtain the services of the
police.




(8)

A person detained under this section must




(a)

be informed promptly of the reasons for the detention and of the
person's right to retain and instruct counsel, and




(b)

be given a reasonable opportunity to retain and instruct counsel.






Search of vehicles




32.4

(1)


An authorized person may without individualized suspicion conduct
routine visual inspections or searches of vehicles that are on the
property of a youth custody centre.




(2)

If an authorized person believes on reasonable grounds that a vehicle
entering, leaving or on the property of a youth custody centre has
been used, is about to be used or is being used in the commission of
an offence under section 33, the authorized person may conduct a
search of the vehicle and its contents in accordance with the
regulations.






Young person communication




32.5

(1)


An authorized person may restrict, intercept, monitor or record young
person communication in accordance with this section and the
regulations.




(2)

An authorized person may without individualized suspicion intercept or
record young person communication.




Division 2 — Contraband, Trespassing and Seizure





Contraband and trespassing offences




33


A person commits an offence who




(a)

is in possession of contraband beyond the visitor control point in a
youth custody centre,




(b)

is in possession of anything referred to in paragraph (b) or (c) of
the definition of "contraband" before the visitor control point at a
youth custody centre,




(c)

delivers contraband to, or receives contraband from, a young person in
custody at a youth custody centre, or




(d)

trespasses on the grounds, buildings or other premises belonging or
related to a youth custody centre.






Powers of seizure and disposition of things seized




34

(1)


In this section,
"relevant proceedings"
means a trial, inquiry or other proceeding in which an object or thing
seized under subsection (2) may be required.




(2)

A staff member may seize contraband or evidence relating to an offence
under section 33
[contraband or trespassing]
.




(3)

Section 23 (4) of the

Offence Act

does not apply to any object or substance seized under subsection (2)
of this section, unless subsection (5) of this section applies.




(4)

As soon as practicable after an object or a substance is seized under
subsection (2),




(a)

a record must be made describing the object or substance and the
circumstances in which it was seized, and




(b)

the object or substance must be deposited in a secure place at the
youth custody centre.




(5)

The person in charge of the youth custody centre may transfer to the
custody of the police or a court any object or substance referred to
in subsection (2) that is required as evidence in a relevant
proceeding.




(6)

An object or a substance seized under subsection (2) must be returned
to its owner if




(a)

it is not required as evidence in a relevant proceeding and it is in
the custody or control of the minister,




(b)

it has not been forfeited under subsection (8),




(c)

within 30 days after being notified of its seizure, the owner requests
its return,




(d)

possession of it would be lawful, and




(e)

in the case of an owner who is a young person in custody, possession
of it by the young person would not constitute possession of
contraband or an unauthorized object or substance.




(7)

If an object or a substance is seized from a young person in custody
under subsection (2) and it constitutes contraband or an unauthorized
object or substance but its possession outside the youth custody
centre would otherwise be lawful, the person in charge of the youth
custody centre may direct that




(a)

the object or substance be kept in a secure place at the youth custody
centre and returned to the young person on the young person's release
from custody, or




(b)

the young person be given a reasonable opportunity to make
arrangements for the disposal, or safekeeping outside the youth
custody centre, of the object or substance.




(8)

An object or substance referred to in subsection (2) is forfeited to
the government if




(a)

the owner cannot be located and 6 months have passed since the
seizure,




(b)

within 30 days after being notified of its seizure, the owner does not
apply for its return,




(c)

possession of it would be unlawful, or




(d)

in the case of an owner who is a young person in custody,




(i)

possession of it by the young person would constitute possession of
contraband or an unauthorized object or substance,




(ii)

the person in charge of the youth custody centre has not made a
direction under subsection (7) (a), and




(iii)

the young person has not arranged for the disposal or safekeeping of
the object or substance outside the youth custody centre after being
given a reasonable opportunity to do so in accordance with subsection
(7) (b).




Division 3 — Reintegration Leave, Day Absences and Employment





Reintegration leave and day absences




35

(1)


This section applies only in respect of young persons in a youth
custody centre who are committed to custody under section 8 (2) (e) or
(f).




(2)

A provincial director may, subject to any terms or conditions that the
provincial director considers desirable, authorize any of the
following for a young person:




(a)

a reintegration leave from the youth custody centre for a period not
exceeding 15 days if, in the opinion of the provincial director, it is
necessary or desirable that the young person be absent for




(i)

medical, compassionate or humanitarian reasons, or




(ii)

the purpose of rehabilitating the young person or reintegrating the
young person into the community;




(b)

that the young person be released from the youth custody centre, on
the days and during the hours that the provincial director specifies,
so that the young person may




(i)

attend school or any other educational or training institution,




(ii)

obtain or continue employment or perform domestic or other duties
required by the young person's family,




(iii)

participate in a program specified by the provincial director that, in
the provincial director's opinion, will enable the young person to
better carry out employment or improve the young person's education or
training, or




(iv)

attend an outpatient treatment program or other program that provides
services that are suitable to addressing the young person's needs.




(3)

A reintegration leave authorized under subsection (2) (a) may be




(a)

with or without escort, as the provincial director considers
advisable, and




(b)

renewed one or more times by a provincial director




(i)

on reassessment of the case each time, and




(ii)

for periods not exceeding 15 days each time.




(4)

A renewed reintegration leave may be consecutive to the previous
reintegration leave provided that the provincial director reassesses
the case before the renewed reintegration leave begins.




(5)

A young person on reintegration leave or released from custody under
this section is subject to




(a)

the rules, regulations and discipline of the youth custody centre, so
far as applicable, and




(b)

any terms and conditions imposed by a provincial director.




(6)

A street, highway or place, public or private, along or across which a
young person may pass in going to or returning from work, duty or
other absence authorized under this section, and every place where a
young person may be under this section, must be considered a portion
of a youth custody centre for the purposes of this Act, except for the
purposes of section 33 (d).




(7)

A provincial director may, at any time, revoke an authorization made
under subsection (2).






Wages for employment




36

(1)


If a provincial director authorizes a young person's absence from a
youth custody centre in order to be gainfully employed for wages, the
provincial director may require




(a)

the employer of the young person to forward the total amount owed to
the young person, less deductions required by law, to the person in
charge of the youth custody centre, and




(b)

that any wages earned by the young person from this employment be
applied in the manner set out in subsection (2) (a) and (b).




(2)

The person in charge of the youth custody centre must do the
following:




(a)

subject to receiving the approval of a provincial director, disburse
the money received under subsection (1) in the following order of
priority:




(i)

the maintenance and support of the young person's dependants in sums
the provincial director may direct;




(ii)

the actual cost of travel expenses and meals for the young person;




(iii)

the cost of the young person's keep at the youth custody centre;




(iv)

any other expense that the provincial director considers is in the
best interest of the young person or the dependants of the young
person;




(b)

credit any balance remaining to the account of the young person to be
paid to the young person when the young person is released on
completion of the term of custody under the court order;




(c)

keep proper records of money received and disbursed under this section
and account to the young person when the young person is released on
completion of the term of custody under the court order.




(3)

Despite subsection (2) (a) and (b) but subject to receiving the
approval of a provincial director, the person in charge of the youth
custody centre may waive the requirement to disburse, or vary the
manner of disbursing, the earnings of the young person received by the
person in charge of the youth custody centre in any way that the
person in charge considers necessary for the benefit of




(a)

the young person, or




(b)

the dependants of the young person.




Division 4 — Inspection and Investigation





Inspection of youth custody centres




37

(1)


The minister must provide for the inspection of each youth custody
centre on a periodic basis that the minister considers appropriate in
the circumstances.




(2)

The minister or any person conducting an inspection under this section
may at any time




(a)

enter a youth custody centre, and




(b)

access any part of the youth custody centre.




(3)

The minister or person conducting the inspection may do one or more of
the following:




(a)

examine any record or thing in the youth custody centre;




(b)

investigate the conduct of any person employed in or about the youth
custody centre, or of any person found within its precincts;




(c)

by order signed by the minister or person conducting the inspection,
summon a person before the minister or person conducting the
inspection;




(d)

examine under oath the person summoned under paragraph (c) about any
matter relating to




(i)

any contravention of this Act, the regulations or the rules of the
youth custody centre, or




(ii)

any matter affecting the interests of the youth custody centre;




(e)

by order signed by the minister or person conducting the inspection,
compel the production of any record or thing before the minister or
person conducting the inspection.




(4)

A person may be taken into custody under a warrant signed by the
minister if the person, after being served with a copy of an order
under subsection (3) (c) or (e),




(a)

does not appear at the time and place specified in the order, or




(b)

refuses to give evidence or fails to produce any record or thing
demanded of the person in the order.




(5)

On the order of a judge of the Supreme Court summarily made, on
complaint of the Attorney General, a person taken into custody under
subsection (4) may be imprisoned, as for contempt, for a period not
longer than 14 days.






Investigations




38

(1)


On the basis of a complaint or otherwise, the minister may
investigate, or appoint a person to investigate, any matter related to
this Act.




(2)

For the purposes of an investigation under this section, the minister
and any person appointed by the minister to conduct the investigation
is entitled access at any time to




(a)

any part of a youth custody centre and any young person held there,




(b)

any youth probation officer or any person employed or volunteering
services at a youth custody centre,




(c)

any facility or place where a program or service established under
section 28 is administered or provided,




(d)

any person employed or volunteering services at a facility or place
referred to in paragraph (c), and




(e)

any record under the custody and control of the ministry or of a youth
probation officer or person referred to in paragraphs (b) and (d).




(3)

For the purposes of an investigation under this section, the minister
and any person appointed by the minister to conduct the investigation
may make an order requiring a person to do either or both of the
following:




(a)

attend, in person or by electronic means, before the minister or
appointed person to answer questions on oath or affirmation, or in any
other manner;




(b)

produce for the minister or appointed person a record or thing in the
person's possession or control.




(4)

The minister or appointed person may apply to the Supreme Court for an
order




(a)

directing a person to comply with an order made under subsection (3),
or




(b)

directing any directors and officers of a person to cause the person
to comply with an order made under subsection (3).






Contempt proceeding for uncooperative person




38.1


The failure or refusal of a person subject to an order under section
38 (3) to do any of the following makes the person, on application to
the Supreme Court by the minister or a person appointed to conduct an
investigation under that section, liable to be committed for contempt
as if in breach of an order or judgment of the Supreme Court:




(a)

attend before the minister or appointed person;




(b)

take an oath or make an affirmation;




(c)

answer questions;




(d)

produce records or things in the person's possession or control.






Immunity protection




38.2

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), no legal proceeding for damages lies or may
be commenced or maintained against a person appointed to conduct an
investigation under section 38, or a person acting on behalf of or
under the direction of the appointed person, because of anything done
or omitted




(a)

in the performance or intended performance of any duty under section
38, or




(b)

in the exercise or intended exercise of any power under section 38 or
38.1.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply to a person referred to in that
subsection in relation to anything done or omitted by that person in
bad faith.






Offence of obstructing inspections and investigations




39

(1)


A person must not obstruct, impede or refuse to admit the minister or
a person conducting an inspection under section 37 or a person
appointed to conduct an investigation under section 38.




(2)

A person must not aid or assist a person in obstructing, impeding or
refusing to admit the minister or a person conducting an inspection
under section 37 or a person appointed to conduct an investigation
under section 38.




(3)

A person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) commits an offence.




Division 5 — Unlawfully At Large





When a young person is at large without lawful excuse




40

(1)


A peace officer or a person in charge of a youth custody centre who
believes on reasonable grounds that a young person admitted to a youth
custody centre




(a)

has left or is away from the youth custody centre without the consent
of the person in charge and fails or refuses to return there,




(b)

fails or refuses to return to the youth custody centre on




(i)

completion of a reintegration leave or a release from custody under
section 35, or




(ii)

revocation of a reintegration leave under section 35 (7), or




(c)

fails or refuses to comply with any term or condition of a
reintegration leave or a release from custody under section 35,


may arrest the young person with or without a warrant and return the
young person, or arrange for the young person to be returned, to
custody.




(2)

A young person described in subsection (1) (a) or (b) is deemed to be
at large without lawful excuse.




Part 5 — General





Complaints process




41

(1)


The minister must establish a process for receiving and investigating
complaints from




(a)

a young person who is, under this Act or the federal Act, subject to
any form of court ordered custody or supervision, or




(b)

a parent of a young person described in paragraph (a).




(2)

A person, officer or employee appointed to exercise powers and perform
duties under this Act must comply with the complaints process
established by the minister.






Delegation of powers, duties and functions




42

(1)


A provincial director or person in charge of a youth custody centre
may delegate,




(a)

in the case of the provincial director, subject to any terms and
conditions the provincial director considers necessary or advisable,
any of the provincial director's powers, duties or functions under
this Act to any person, or




(b)

in the case of a person in charge of a youth custody centre, subject
to any terms and conditions the person considers necessary or
advisable, any of the person's powers, duties or functions under this
Act to any person.




(2)

If a provincial director or person in charge of a youth custody centre
has made a delegation of a power, duty or function, a reference to a
provincial director or person in charge of a youth custody centre in
relation to that power, duty or function includes the delegate.






Section 5 of
Offence Act
does not apply




43


Section 5 of the

Offence Act

does not apply to this Act.






Power to make regulations




44

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
section 41 of the

Interpretation Act

.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations as follows:




(a)

prescribing forms for the purposes of Part 1;




(b)

prescribing periods of time for the purposes of section 21;




(c)

establishing qualification standards for youth probation officers;




(d)

providing for additional powers, responsibilities and duties that may
be assigned by the minister to a youth probation officer;




(e)

providing for the management, operation, discipline and security of
youth custody centres;




(f)

prescribing the duties of any person employed in or about a youth
custody centre;




(g)

respecting the information that may be provided in a report under
section 6 or 7;




(h)

respecting the diet, clothing, accommodation, maintenance, employment,
training, education and discipline of young persons in a youth custody
centre;




(i)

governing young persons on reintegration leave or released from
custody under section 35;




(j)

respecting the separate confinement of young persons in youth custody
centres;




(k)

respecting the use of force and restraining devices or equipment in
youth custody centres;




(k.1)

respecting searches under sections 32.1 to 32.4, including, without
limitation, strip searches;




(l)

respecting the restriction, interception, monitoring or recording of
young person communication;




(l.1)

providing for the handling, retention and disposal of young person
communication that is intercepted or recorded;




(l.2)

specifying communications between a young person and another person
that are privileged;




(l.3)

respecting procedures that an authorized person must follow and
specifying criteria that an authorized person must apply, to examine a
young person communication and determine whether it is a privileged
communication;




(m)

delegating authority to a person in charge of a youth custody centre
to make rules governing the conduct of young persons in custody at the
youth custody centre;




(n)

establishing and providing for sanctions for the contravention of a
rule referred to in paragraph (m);




(o)

governing visits to young persons in youth custody centres;




(p)

respecting the disposal of unclaimed property abandoned by a young
person at a youth custody centre, including, without limitation,
providing for the forfeiture of the property to the government;




(q)

defining words or expressions used but not defined in this Act.




(3)

Despite the

Public Service Act

or any other Act, the Lieutenant Governor in Council may make
regulations as follows:




(a)

prescribing the compulsory retirement age for a person holding an
appointment under section 24 (1) (a) or (b) and employed in a youth
custody centre;




(b)

specifying the qualifications that are necessary to be exempted from a
regulation under paragraph (a) and tests that measure the ability of a
person holding an appointment to




(i)

exercise the powers and duties of the appointment, and




(ii)

contribute to the maintenance of safety and security and the
management and operation of a youth custody centre.




(4)

A regulation under subsection (3) may




(a)

be made applicable generally or to a specific class of persons,




(b)

for the purposes of the regulation, define classes of persons, and




(c)

provide differently for different classes of persons.



Transitional Provisions





Transitional —
Young Offenders (BC) Act
records




45

(1)


Despite the

Information Management Act

, records that were created or maintained in respect of an offence
committed by a young person under the

Young Offenders (British Columbia) Act

, as it read before its repeal by this Act, may be destroyed after the
expiration of




(a)

the disposition made in respect of that specific offence, or




(b)

if the Lieutenant Governor in Council prescribes another period of
time for the purposes of section 21 of this Act, that prescribed
period.




(2)

Section 4 applies in respect of records referred to in subsection (1)
of this section.






Transitional — dispositions made under
Young Offenders (BC) Act




46


Sections 15 to 18 of this Act apply in respect of dispositions made
under the

Young Offenders (British Columbia) Act

, as it read before its repeal by this Act.




Consequential and Related Amendments









[Note: See Table of Legislative Changes for the status of
sections 47 to 88.]









Section(s)





Affected Act






47





Child, Family and Community Service Act






48





Community Care and Assisted Living Act






49





Community Care Facility Act






50





Coroners Act






51-59





Correction Act






60-61





Criminal Records Review Act






62





Insurance (Motor Vehicle) Act






63





Interpretation Act






64





Mental Health Act






65-77





Motor Vehicle Act






78-81





Parental Responsibility Act






82





Parole Act






83-84





Provincial Court Act






85-86





Victims of Crime Act






87





Wildlife Act






88





Young Offenders (British Columbia) Act










Commencement




89


This Act comes into force by regulation of the Lieutenant Governor in
Council.




