

National Instrument 31-103


Registration Requirements, Exemptions and

Ongoing Registrant Obligations



Securities Act




where



A
=

the market value of all cash and securities in the account as at
the end of the 12-month period covered by the investment
performance report;




G
=

the market value of all cash and securities in the account
determined as follows:

(a) if the firm has not delivered an investment performance
report for the 12-month period ending December 31, 2016, the
market value of all cash and securities in the client's account
as at

(i) July 15, 2015, or

(ii) a date that is earlier than July 15, 2015 if the registered
firm reasonably believes accurate, recorded historical market
value information is available for the client's account, and it
would not be misleading to the client to provide that
information as at the earlier date,

(b) if the has firm delivered an investment performance report
for the 12-month period ending December 31, 2016, the market
value of all cash and securities in the client's account as at

(i) January 1, 2016, or

(ii) a date that is earlier than January 1, 2016 if the
registered firm reasonably believes accurate, recorded
historical market value information is available for the
client's account, and it would not be misleading to the client
to provide that information as at the earlier date;




H
=

the market value of all deposits and transfers of cash and
securities into the account since the date used for the purposes
of the definition of "G"; and




I
=

the market value of all withdrawals and transfers of cash and
securities out of the account since the date used for the
purposes of the definition of "G".


