

National Instrument 45-110


Start-up Crowdfunding Registration

and Prospectus Exemptions



Securities Act




(1)



This offering document must be provided to your funding portal,
which must make it available on its online platform. This
offering document must not contain a misrepresentation. A
misrepresentation means an untrue statement of material fact or
an omission to state a material fact that is required to be
stated, or necessary to prevent a statement that is made from
being false or misleading in the circumstances in which it was
made. If the information contained in this offering document is
no longer accurate and contains a misrepresentation, you must
immediately notify the funding portal, amend the offering
document and provide the new version to the funding portal.





(2)



If an issuer is relying on the start-up crowdfunding prospectus
exemption (section 5 of the Instrument) in the local
jurisdiction with respect to a crowdfunding distribution, the
issuer must file this offering document in the local
jurisdiction. Note: if a purchaser of the securities and the
issuer are in different jurisdictions, the crowdfunding
distribution is occurring in both jurisdictions â€” the
jurisdiction of the issuer's head office and the jurisdiction of
the purchaser.





(3)



This offering document is required to be filed no later than the
30th day after the closing of the distribution.





(4)



This offering document must be completed and certified by an
authorized individual on behalf of the issuer.





(5)



Draft this offering document so that it is easy to read and
understand. Be concise and use clear, plain language. Avoid
technical terms.





(6)



Disclosure must conform as closely as possible to this form.
Address the items in the order set out below. No variation of
headings, numbering or information set out in the form is
allowed and all are to be displayed as shown.



