





View Complete Regulation






B.C. Reg. 296/97

Workers' Compensation Board


Deposited September 8, 1997

effective April 15, 1998






This consolidation is current to November 28, 2023.

See the

Cumulative B.C. Regulations Bulletin 2023


for amendments effective after November 28, 2023.





Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Workers Compensation Act


Occupational Health and Safety Regulation

[Last amended March 1, 2023 by B.C. Reg. 223/2022]


Part 20 — Construction, Excavation and Demolition





Definitions




20.1


In this Part:



"adjacent to an excavation"

means within a distance less than or equal to the overall depth of the
excavation, measured from a vertical line through the toe of the
excavation face;



"application drawings"

, also known as erection drawings, means drawings that contain the
information necessary for the erection, use and dismantling of
formwork, falsework, reshoring and associated components and equipment
of the formwork, falsework and reshoring;



"asbestos-containing material"

has the same meaning as in section 6.1;



"construction project"

means any erection, alteration, repair, dismantling, demolition,
structural or routine maintenance, painting, land clearing, earth
moving, grading, excavating, trenching, digging, boring, drilling,
blasting, concreting, the installation of any machinery or any other
work deemed to be construction by the Board;


"demolition"
means tearing down, destruction, breakup, razing or removal of the
whole or part of a building or structure, or of free standing
machinery or equipment that is directly related to the function of the
structure;


"excavation"
means any cut, cavity, trench or depression in the earth's surface
resulting from rock or soil removal;


"falsework"
means a temporary support structure used to support loads during a
construction project;


"fill"
means any soil or other loose material that is constructed to form an
embankment or a part of the foundation of a structure or improvement;


"formwork"
means a temporary support system used to contain cast-in-place
concrete during a construction project, but does not include
falsework;


"reshoring"
means a temporary support system used to support a slab or other
structure and withstand loads during a construction project after
formwork and falsework have been removed;


"stockpile"
means any soil or other loose material that is placed in an area for
storage but that is not intended to function as fill;



"tilt-up construction"

means a system of building construction in which concrete wall panels
are placed in position in the permanent structure and temporarily
braced or supported;


"trench"
means an excavation less than 3.7 m (12 ft) wide at the
bottom, over 1.2 m (4 ft) deep, and of any length.


[am. B.C. Regs. 185/99, s. 54; 258/2008, App. F, s. 1; 188/2011, App.
B, s. 13; 14/2019, App. C, s. 1.]




General Requirements





Qualified contractor




20.1A


If a person agrees with the owner to be the prime contractor as
provided in sections 13 and 24 of the

Workers Compensation Act

, then that person must be qualified.


[en. B.C. Reg. 185/99, s. 55; am. B.C. Reg. 279/2019, App. D, s. 3.]






Notice of project




20.2

(1)


Subject to subsection (4), either the owner or the person engaged by
the owner to be the prime contractor on a construction project must
ensure that the Board receives, in writing, a notice of project that
contains the information required by subsection (2) at least 24 hours
before work on the construction project begins at the worksite if any
of the following apply:




(a)

the estimated total cost of labour and materials for the construction
project exceeds $100 000;




(b)

all or part of the construction project, whether a temporary or a
permanent aspect of the project, is designed by a professional
engineer except for pre-engineered or pre-manufactured building and
structural components;




(c)

the construction project is a new erection, a major alteration, a
structural repair or a demolition of




(i)

a building more than 2 storeys or 6 m (20 ft) high,




(ii)

a bridge,




(iii)

an earth or water retaining structure more than 3 m (10 ft)
high, or




(iv)

a silo, chimney or other similar structure more than 6 m
(20 ft) high;




(d)

workers will be working in a cofferdam or in a compressed air
environment other than an underground working as defined in section
22.1;




(e)

a worker may be required to enter




(i)

a trench over 30 m (100 ft) long, or




(ii)

an excavation, other than a trench, over 1.2 m (4 ft) deep.




(2)

The notice of project must contain the following information:




(a)

the name and contact information of the owner and of the person
engaged by the owner to be the prime contractor, if any;




(b)

the address of the construction project or its location in relation to
the nearest highway;




(c)

the scope of the construction project, including a list of the items
referred to in subsection (1) that apply to the construction project;




(d)

the starting date and the estimated duration of the construction
project;




(e)

the estimated total cost of labour and materials for the construction
project;




(f)

if the construction project involves construction of a cofferdam,
confirmation by the owner or the person engaged by the owner to be the
prime contractor that drawings for all temporary or permanent ground
support will be available at the worksite for the duration of the
construction project, if ground support is used.




(3)

Subject to subsection (4), if a notice of project is required under
subsection (1), the owner or the person engaged by the owner to be the
prime contractor must ensure that a copy of the notice of project is
posted at the worksite before work on the construction project begins
at the worksite and is kept posted for the duration of the
construction project.




(4)

If it is necessary to do immediate work on a construction project to
which subsection (1) applies in order to prevent the risk of injury to
workers or other persons or damage to property, work on the
construction project may begin at the worksite immediately and the
owner or the person engaged by the owner to be the prime contractor on
the construction project must ensure that




(a)

the Board receives, in writing, a notice of project that contains the
information required by subsection (2) as soon as possible, and




(b)

a copy of the notice of project is posted at the worksite as soon as
possible and is kept posted for the duration of the construction
project.




(5)

If any of the information required by subsection (2) changes
significantly, the owner or the person engaged by the owner to be the
prime contractor must ensure that




(a)

the Board receives, in writing, the new information as soon as
possible, and




(b)

a copy of the new information is posted at the worksite as soon as
possible and is kept posted for the duration of the construction
project.

[en. B.C. Reg. 9/2017, App. L.]





Notice of project — hazardous substances




20.2.1

(1)


Subject to subsections (3) and (6), if a construction project involves
a work activity set out in subsection (2), all employers responsible
for the work activity and either the owner or the person engaged by
the owner to be the prime contractor on the construction project must
ensure that the Board receives, in writing, a notice of project that
contains the information required by subsection (4) at least 48 hours
before the work activity begins at the worksite.




(2)

The following are work activities for the purposes of subsection (1):




(a)

a work activity that involves working with or in proximity to
asbestos-containing material, as defined in section 6.1, that is a
moderate risk work activity or a high risk work activity as defined in
that section;




(b)

the alteration, repair, dismantling or demolition of all or part of a
building or structure in which asbestos-containing material has been
processed, manufactured or stored;




(c)

a work activity that significantly disturbs lead-containing material
in buildings or structures;




(d)

a work activity that is similar to those described in paragraphs (a)
to (c) and that may expose workers to a significant risk of
occupational disease from a biological or chemical agent or ionizing
radiation.




(3)

Subsection (1) does not apply if the work activity is carried out




(a)

for the purposes of section 20.112 (2) or (6)
[hazardous materials]
,




(b)

during a site inspection conducted to identify hazards,




(c)

to determine the types of tasks required for the construction project,
or




(d)

to estimate the cost of labour and materials for the construction
project.




(4)

The notice of project must contain the following information:




(a)

the name and contact information of all employers responsible for the
work activity, of the owner and of the person engaged to be the prime
contractor, if any;




(b)

the address of the construction project or its location in relation to
the nearest highway;




(c)

the scope of the construction project and of the work activity;




(d)

the starting date and the estimated duration of the construction
project and of the work activity;




(e)

the safe work procedures specific to the work activity, and the
hazardous substance involved in the work activity, that will be used
to minimize the risk of occupational disease to the workers;




(f)

if section 20.112 applies, a written report made under section 20.112
(3) (e) and, if applicable, section 20.112 (6) (e).




(5)

Subject to subsection (6), all employers responsible for the work
activity and either the owner or the person engaged by the owner to be
the prime contractor must ensure that a copy of the notice of project
is posted at the worksite before the work activity begins at the
worksite and is kept posted for the duration of the construction
project.




(6)

If it is necessary to do immediate work in order to prevent the risk
of injury to workers or other persons, the risk of occupational
disease or damage to property, a work activity referred to in
subsection (2) may begin at the worksite immediately, and all
employers responsible for the work activity and either the owner or
the person engaged by the owner to be the prime contractor must ensure
that




(a)

the Board receives, in writing, a notice of project that contains the
information required by subsection (4) as soon as possible, and




(b)

a copy of the notice of project is posted at the worksite as soon as
possible and is kept posted for the duration of the construction
project.




(7)

If any of the information required by subsection (4) changes
significantly, all employers responsible for the work activity and
either the owner or the person engaged by the owner to be the prime
contractor must ensure that




(a)

the Board receives, in writing, the new information as soon as
possible, and




(b)

a copy of the new information is posted at the worksite as soon as
possible and is kept posted for the duration of the construction
project.




(8)

All employers responsible for a work activity to which subsection (1)
applies must retain a copy of the notice of project respecting the
work activity for at least 10 years from the starting date of the
construction project as set out in the notice of project.

[en. B.C. Reg. 9/2017, App. L.]





Coordination of multiple employer workplaces




20.3

(1)


If a construction project involves the work of 2 or more employers or
their workers, each employer must notify the owner, or the person
engaged by the owner to be the prime contractor, in advance of any
undertaking likely to create a hazard for a worker of another
employer.




(2)

If a work location has overlapping or adjoining work activities of 2
or more employers that create a hazard to workers, and the combined
workforce at the workplace is more than 5,




(a)

the owner, or if the owner engages another person to be the prime
contractor, then that person, must




(i)

appoint a qualified coordinator for the purpose of ensuring the
coordination of health and safety activities for the location, and




(ii)

provide up-to-date information as specified in subsection (4), readily
available on site, and




(b)

each employer must give the coordinator appointed under paragraph (a)
(i) the name of a qualified person designated to be responsible for
that employer's site health and safety activities.




(3)

The duties of the qualified coordinator appointed under subsection (2)
(a) (i) include




(a)

informing employers and workers of the hazards created, and




(b)

ensuring that the hazards are addressed throughout the duration of the
work activities.




(4)

The information required by subsection (2) (a) (ii) includes




(a)

the name of the qualified coordinator appointed under subsection (2)
(a) (i),




(b)

a site drawing, which must be posted, showing project layout, first
aid location, emergency transportation provisions, and the evacuation
marshalling station, and




(c)

a set of construction procedures designed to protect the health and
safety of workers at the workplace, developed in accordance with the
requirements of this Regulation.

[am. B.C. Reg. 185/99, s. 57.]



Safe Work Areas and Safe Access





Safe access




20.4

(1)


Where practicable, suitable ladders, work platforms and scaffolds
meeting the requirements of Part 13 (Ladders, Scaffolds and Temporary
Work Platforms) must be provided for and used by a worker for
activities requiring positioning at elevations above a floor or grade.




(2)

There must be suitable access for the safe delivery of equipment and
materials to locations in the workplace where they will be used.


[en. B.C. Reg. 420/2004, s. 7; am. B.C. Reg. 243/2006, s. 11.]






Temporary floors




20.5

(1)


During the erection of a building or structure of skeleton
construction, a temporary floor, decking or formwork must be installed
at the main working level where work is being done.




(2)

If compliance with subsection (1) is not practicable, a temporary
floor or other effective means of protection must be installed not
more than two levels or 8 m (25 ft) below the main working
level.




(3)

Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply during the initial connection of
structural members where it is not practicable to provide a floor or
decking.




(4)

There must be a safe means of access and egress to each main working
level referred to in subsection (1).




(5)

A stairway comprised of at least framing, treads and a handrail must
be provided to each floor level before construction of the next floor
or deck surface is undertaken, and the treads on the stairway must not
create a tripping or slipping hazard.






Design loads




20.6

(1)


A temporary floor, decking, floor opening cover or formwork must be




(a)

capable of supporting a uniformly distributed live load of at least 2
kPa (40 psf), or




(b)

designed and installed in accordance with the written instructions of
a professional engineer if the anticipated live load will be different
than 2 kPa (40 psf) in which case a copy of the engineer's plan and
specifications must be available at the workplace.




(2)

Workers delivering materials to or working on a temporary floor,
decking, floor opening cover or formwork must be aware of the safe
carrying capacity of the surface and of precautions necessary to
prevent overloading.






Repealed




20.7


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 420/2004, s. 8.]






Repealed




20.8


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. D, s. 18.]






Protection from falling materials




20.9

(1)


If falling material could endanger workers




(a)

the danger area must be barricaded or effectively guarded to prevent
entry by workers, and conspicuous warning signs must be displayed on
all sides and approaches, or




(b)

adequate protective canopies must be installed over the danger area,
or




(c)

adequate catch platforms or nets must be provided to stop materials
from falling into areas accessible to workers.




(2)

Temporary washroom facilities, offices and similar structures on a
construction site must be




(a)

located outside areas where there is the potential of being hit by
falling materials, or




(b)

covered by adequate protective canopies.




(3)

Protective canopies must be designed and constructed to safely support
all loads that may reasonably be expected to be applied to them, but
in no case less than 2.4 kPa (50 psf).






Chutes




20.10

(1)


Chutes must be provided if the free fall of materials or debris being
removed exceeds 6 m (20 ft).




(2)

Vertical chutes must be completely enclosed and have gates at each
point of entry.




(3)

The discharge area of a chute must be barricaded or effectively
guarded to prevent workers being injured by falling or flying debris
and conspicuous signs must be posted near chute outlets to warn of the
danger.






Repealed




20.11


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. D, s. 19.]






Glass panels




20.12


Glass panels installed during construction or alterations must be
marked to clearly indicate their presence or effectively guarded at
the time of installation.






Thrust-out crane landing platforms




20.13

(1)


A professional engineer must certify each thrust-out crane landing
platform and certify that the building structure can adequately
support loads to be imposed by use of the platform.




(2)

Thrust-out crane landing platform drawings and certification must be
available on site when the platform is in place.




(3)

The rated capacity of a thrust-out crane landing platform must be
clearly marked on the platform and not be exceeded.




(3.1)

Control measures acceptable to the Board must be implemented to ensure
all loads placed on a thrust-out crane landing platform




(a)

are safely supported, and




(b)

can be safely attached to and detached from the rigging.




(4)

Thrust-out platform decking and supporting members must be designed to
safely support any concentrated loads that may be landed.




(5)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 420/2004, s. 9 (b).]

[am. B.C. Regs. 420/2004, s. 9; 19/2006, s. 8.]





Temporary support




20.14


During the erection or dismantling of a structure or equipment the
employer must ensure that all partially assembled structures or
components are supported as necessary to safely withstand any loads
likely to be imposed on them.






Fills




20.14.1


A fill must be planned, constructed, used and maintained so that no
person working at the workplace is endangered by any failure or
instability of the fill.

[en. B.C Reg. 258/2008, App. F, s. 2.]





Stockpiles




20.14.2


A stockpile must be planned, constructed, used and maintained so that
no person working at the workplace is endangered by any instability of
the stockpiled material.

[en. B.C Reg. 258/2008, App. F, s. 2.]





Unstable face of a stockpile




20.14.3


The height of an unstable face of a stockpile must not exceed the
maximum safe reach of the equipment being used to remove material from
the stockpile.

[en. B.C Reg. 258/2008, App. F, s. 2.]



Bridges and Similar Structures





Drawings and special procedures




20.15


During the construction of a bridge or a structure involving erection
of skeleton structural members, documentation of all construction
details that require engineering, including erection procedures,
temporary bracing and falsework must be




(a)

available at the worksite at all times during such work, and




(b)

updated as necessary to show changes in details or site conditions,
and each update must be certified by a professional engineer.






Walkways




20.16


A worker must not walk upon the surfaces of structural members that
have shear connectors, dowels or other protrusions unless suitable
walkways and runways are provided to eliminate the tripping hazard.




Concrete Falsework and Formwork





Definitions




20.16.1


In sections 20.17 to 20.26:



"specified formwork"

means formwork of a type listed in section 20.17 (1) (a) to (n);



"worksite-specific plans"

means worksite-specific application drawings and any associated
specifications and supplementary instructions.

[en. B.C. Reg. 14/2019, App. C, s. 2.]





Application




20.16.2


Sections 20.17 to 20.26 apply only to cast-in-place concrete.

[en. B.C. Reg. 14/2019, App. C, s. 2.]





Worksite-specific plans required for specified formwork




20.17

(1)


The employer must ensure that worksite-specific plans are prepared for
the following types of formwork and any associated falsework or
reshoring:




(a)

flyforms;




(b)

ganged forms;




(c)

jump forms;




(d)

vertical slip forms;




(e)

formwork over 4 m (13 ft) in height;




(f)

suspended forms for beams, slabs, stairs and landings;




(g)

single-sided, battered or inclined forms over 2 m (6.5 ft)
in height;




(h)

cantilever forms;




(i)

bridge deck forms;




(j)

shaft lining forms;




(k)

tunnel lining forms;




(l)

formwork into which concrete will be pumped through an injection port
below the upper concrete surface;




(m)

formwork over 3 m (10 ft) in height into which
self-consolidating concrete will be placed;




(n)

formwork designated by the designer of the structure.




(2)

The employer must ensure that a professional engineer certifies the
following in accordance with section 20.18:




(a)

worksite-specific plans;




(b)

any changes to worksite-specific plans.




(3)

The employer must ensure that certified worksite-specific plans are
available at the worksite during the erection, use and dismantling of
formwork, falsework and reshoring.




(4)

The employer must ensure that any changes to certified
worksite-specific plans are available at the worksite




(a)

as soon as practicable, and




(b)

before the inspection required for placement of concrete or other
intended loading of formwork, falsework and reshoring.




(5)

The employer must ensure that formwork, falsework and reshoring are
erected, used and, if applicable, dismantled in accordance with
up-to-date certified worksite-specific plans.

[en. B.C. Reg. 14/2019, App. C, s. 3.]





Certification of worksite-specific plans by professional engineer




20.18


For the purposes of section 20.17 (2), a professional engineer must
certify that worksite-specific plans, and any changes to
worksite-specific plans, meet the requirements of




(a)

CSA Standard S269.1-16
,
Falsework and formwork
,




(b)

section 20.20 of this Regulation, and




(c)

if worksite-specific plans are prepared for flyforms and any
associated falsework or reshoring, sections 20.21 (1) and (2) and
20.22 (1) and (2) of this Regulation.

[en. B.C. Reg. 14/2019, App. C, s. 3.]





Continuity of engineering




20.19


In the event of a change of professional engineers or if the separate
work of 2 or more professional engineers is involved, the continuity
of design, construction and inspection of formwork and any associated
falsework or reshoring must be ensured by




(a)

the employer, or




(b)

the owner or prime contractor, if the formwork, falsework or reshoring
affects workers of more than one employer.

[en. B.C. Reg. 14/2019, App. C, s. 3.]





Information for worksite-specific plans




20.20

(1)


For the purposes of section 20.18 (b), worksite-specific plans must,
subject to subsection (2),




(a)

clearly show all the information necessary to accurately and safely
erect, use and, if applicable, dismantle formwork, falsework and
reshoring, and




(b)

include the following information:




(i)

sufficient plan view, section views and connection details, enlarged
where necessary, to clearly describe the formwork, falsework and
reshoring and permit accurate erection;




(ii)

the quality and grade of materials to be used for the components and
their connection;




(iii)

an accurate description of proprietary items, including fittings, to
permit field identification;




(iv)

the load bearing capacity required of the material upon which sills
are to be placed and, if necessary, details of procedures to be used
to develop and maintain the required capacity;




(v)

the minimum dimensions of sills and other foundation members;




(vi)

erection, use and dismantling procedures that require special
attention including, where applicable, handling multi-use formwork
panels;




(vii)

details of supports necessary to maintain lateral stability and resist
sidesway and racking, specifying the materials, dimensions and
locations of external braces, ties and other support devices;




(viii)

if structural components connect together, the connection details
necessary to prevent accidental displacement or rotation of the
components;




(ix)

details of the form or mould into which concrete will be placed;




(x)

the maximum concrete slump that the form or mould is able to
withstand;




(xi)

sufficient load and deflection information to permit a professional
engineer to understand the design of the formwork and falsework;




(xii)

the sequence, method and rate of load placement necessary to prevent
overloading of any part of the formwork or falsework.




(2)

If any information cannot be provided to meet the requirements of
subsection (1), worksite-specific plans must include special notation
of the information that is incomplete and that will require further
design.

[en. B.C. Reg. 14/2019, App. C, s. 3.]





Application drawings and supplementary instructions for flyforms




20.21

(1)


Application drawings for flyforms must be detailed to show




(a)

a plan view, a longitudinal section and a cross-section for each type
of flyform panel, and




(b)

the weight, calculated position of the centre of gravity and the
position of the pickup points for each type of flyform panel.




(2)

The design on the application drawings and any supplementary
instructions for a flyform panel must provide that, as soon as the
panel is landed on a supporting surface, before anyone climbs or walks
on the panel and before placement of concrete or reinforcing steel on
the panel, the panel must




(a)

be able to resist a minimum horizontal load of 3.6 kN (800 lbs)
applied in any direction on the top edge,




(b)

have a minimum safety factor against overturning about any possible
axis of




(i)

1.6 when dead load plus most severe live load configuration plus
horizontal loads are considered, and




(ii)

2.0 when dead load plus most severe live load configuration or dead
load plus horizontal loads are considered,




(c)

have a minimum safety factor of 1.5 against the panel sliding against
the supporting surface, and




(d)

have flyform legs placed as necessary to attain the required safety
factor against overturning.




(3)

If any of the requirements of subsection (2) cannot be met for a
panel, the employer must ensure that the panel, before being unhooked
from the crane or hoist, is secured to the permanent structure or an
adjacent panel in a manner specified by the designer of the formwork.

[en. B.C. Reg. 14/2019, App. C, s. 3.]





Flyform handling




20.22

(1)


Application drawings and any supplementary instructions for flyforms
must show a step-by-step procedure for all phases of each cycle of
assembly, flying, use, dismantling and reuse of each flyform panel,
including special procedures for non-typical floors.




(2)

If any flyform panel is not inherently stable for all possible
conditions of load, special notation on the flyform application
drawings and any supplementary instructions must draw attention to the
procedure for obtaining stability.




(3)

The employer must ensure that the application drawings and any
supplementary instructions required by subsections (1) and (2),
including special procedures required for non-typical floors, are made
available to workers involved in any part of the assembly, flying,
use, dismantling or reuse of each flyform panel.

[en. B.C. Reg. 14/2019, App. C, s. 3.]





Supervision




20.23


The employer must ensure that




(a)

a qualified supervisor supervises the erection, use and dismantling of
formwork, falsework and reshoring, and




(b)

workers are instructed in




(i)

the hazards that the workers may be exposed to, and




(ii)

the precautions to be taken while around or on formwork, falsework or
reshoring.

[en. B.C. Reg. 14/2019, App. C, s. 3.]





Equipment requirements




20.24


The employer must ensure that equipment, materials and hardware used
in the erection, use or dismantling of formwork and any associated
falsework and reshoring meet the requirements specified in up-to-date
worksite-specific plans.

[en. B.C. Reg. 14/2019, App. C, s. 3.]





Concrete placing hazards




20.25

(1)


The employer must ensure that protruding objects that create a risk of
injury are removed or effectively guarded.




(2)

During placement of concrete or other significant loads on the
formwork, a person must be restricted from the areas underneath where
the loads are placed.




(3)

After placement of concrete or other significant loads on the
formwork, a person must be restricted from the areas underneath where
the loads were placed until it can be confirmed by a qualified person
that the formwork is withstanding the loads.




(4)

Placement of concrete or other loads




(a)

must stop if any of the following occurs:




(i)

weakness;




(ii)

undue settlement;




(iii)

excess distortion of specified formwork or any associated falsework or
reshoring;




(iv)

an unanticipated or dangerous condition not set out in subparagraph
(i), (ii) or (iii), and




(b)

may restart only after the formwork, falsework or reshoring has been
repaired or strengthened as specified by a professional engineer.




(5)

Loads must not be applied to uncured concrete structures except as
permitted by the worksite-specific plans.

[en. B.C. Reg. 14/2019, App. C, s. 3.]





Inspections




20.26

(1)


Subject to subsection (4), immediately before placement of concrete or
other intended loading of specified formwork and any associated
falsework or reshoring, the employer must ensure that




(a)

the formwork, falsework and reshoring are inspected by a professional
engineer, and




(b)

the professional engineer issues a certificate that




(i)

indicates the specific areas inspected, and




(ii)

certifies that the formwork, falsework and reshoring have been erected
in accordance with up-to-date worksite-specific plans.




(2)

The certificate required by subsection (1) (b) must be available at
the worksite for inspection by an officer.




(3)

If ganged forms are being reused on the same worksite with any
modification to the design or method of erection of the ganged forms,
subsection (1) applies in relation to the reuse of the ganged forms.




(4)

If ganged forms are being reused on the same worksite without
modification to the design or method of erection of the ganged forms
certified under subsection (1), immediately before placement of
concrete or other intended loading of the ganged forms, the employer
must ensure that the ganged forms are inspected by a qualified person
who




(a)

confirms that the ganged forms have been erected in accordance with
up-to-date worksite-specific plans, and




(b)

documents the inspection and the confirmation, including the specific
location where the ganged forms are being reused and the date of the
inspection.




(5)

The documents required by subsection (4) (b) must be available at the
worksite for inspection by an officer.

[en. B.C. Reg. 14/2019, App. C, s. 3.]



Concrete Pumping





Definition




20.26.1


In sections 20.26.2 to 20.54,
"mast"
means a mounting or support structure, other than a truck or trailer,
for a concrete placing boom.

[en. B.C. Reg. 188/2011, App. I, s. 1.]





Application of regulation




20.26.2


Sections 20.31, 20.32, 20.37, 20.38, 20.40 (3), 20.43 (4) and 20.45 do
not apply in relation to concrete pumps or placing booms manufactured
on or after August 1, 2012.

[en. B.C. Reg. 188/2011, App. I, s. 1.]





Standards




20.26.3

(1)


The operation, inspection, testing and maintenance of a concrete pump
or placing boom manufactured before August 1, 2012 must meet the
requirements of
CSA Standard Z151-09, Concrete pumps and placing booms
, as set out in clauses 1.1 to 3
[definitions]
, 4.1.9.2.3, 4.1.18.2, 4.1.19.1, 4.2.1.1, 4.2.2, 5.1.1 to 5.3.4, 5.3.7
to 6.3.4 and 6.5.1 to 6.7.3, including any table, figure or annex
referred to in those clauses.




(2)

The design, manufacture, installation, operation, inspection, testing
and maintenance of a concrete pump or placing boom manufactured on or
after August 1, 2012 must meet the requirements of
CSA Standard Z151-09, Concrete pumps and placing booms
, as set out in clauses 1.1 to 3
[definitions]
, 4.1.1.2 to 5.3.4, 5.3.7 to 6.3.4 and 6.5.1 to 6.7.3, including any
table, figure or annex referred to in those clauses.

[en. B.C. Reg. 188/2011, App. I, s. 1.]





Duty to ensure operator's competence




20.26.4

(1)


The employer must ensure, before a person operates, or supervises a
person who operates, a concrete pump or placing boom at a workplace,
that the person can operate the concrete pump or placing boom at that
workplace in a competent and safe manner, taking into account




(a)

the class or type of concrete pump or placing boom being operated, and




(b)

the circumstances of the workplace.




(2)

The duty imposed on the employer under subsection (1) also applies to
the following:




(a)

in the case of a multiple-employer workplace, the prime contractor for
the workplace;




(b)

in any other case, the owner of the workplace.

[en. B.C. Reg. 222/2021, App. E.]





Certification authority




20.26.5

(1)


The Board may designate an organization to be the certification
authority for the purposes of section 20.26.6 if




(a)

the Board has reviewed the certification program proposed by the
organization and is satisfied that the certification program meets the
requirements of




(i)


ISO/IEC 17024:2012, Conformity assessment — General requirements for
bodies operating certification of persons

, or




(ii)


ANSI/ICE 1100:2019, Standard for Assessment-Based Certificate
Programs

, and




(b)

the Board is satisfied that the organization will be able to provide,
throughout British Columbia, the written tests and practical
assessments that applicants must take to obtain a concrete pump
operator's certificate.




(2)

The Board may revoke the designation of an organization as the
certification authority if




(a)

the Board is satisfied that




(i)

the certification program provided by the organization does not meet
the certification requirements of either of the standards referred to
in subsection (1) (a),




(ii)

the organization is not providing, throughout British Columbia, the
written tests or practical assessments that applicants must take to
obtain a concrete pump operator's certificate, or




(iii)

the organization is not performing or exercising the organization's
duties and powers with respect to concrete pump operator's
certificates in accordance with section 20.26.6, or




(b)

the organization requests the revocation.

[en. B.C. Reg. 222/2021, App. E.]





Operator certification




20.26.6

(1)


In this section,
"certification authority"
means an organization designated as the certification authority under
section 20.26.5 (1).




(2)

On and after January 1, 2024, a person must not operate a concrete
pump or placing boom at a workplace unless the person




(a)

holds a valid concrete pump operator's certificate, issued by the
certification authority, for the class or type of concrete pump or
placing boom being operated and operates the concrete pump or placing
boom in accordance with any conditions set out on the certificate, or




(b)

operates the concrete pump or placing boom




(i)

under the supervision of a person who holds a valid concrete pump
operator's certificate for the class or type of concrete pump or
placing boom being operated, and




(ii)

in accordance with the directions of the certificate holder.




(3)

The employer must ensure that a person who operates a concrete pump or
placing boom at a workplace complies with subsection (2).




(4)

The duty imposed on the employer under subsection (3) also applies to
the following:




(a)

in the case of a multiple-employer workplace, the prime contractor for
the workplace;




(b)

in any other case, the owner of the workplace.




(5)

The certification authority must issue a concrete pump operator's
certificate to an applicant for a class or type of concrete pump or
placing boom if the applicant




(a)

has reached the minimum age specified by the certification authority,




(b)

takes a written test established by the certification authority and
achieves a minimum score established by the certification authority,




(c)

takes a practical assessment administered by the certification
authority and achieves a minimum score established by the
certification authority, and




(d)

pays to the certification authority a fee that is established by the
certification authority to cover the costs of administering the
written test and practical assessment.




(6)

The certification authority must determine the term of a concrete pump
operator's certificate and must set out on the certificate the date
that it expires.




(7)

The certification authority must renew a concrete pump operator's
certificate if the certificate holder




(a)

submits, before the certificate has expired, a completed application,
in a form established by the certification authority, to take the
written test for the renewal of the certificate,




(b)

takes a written test established by the certification authority and
achieves a minimum score established by the certification authority,




(c)

subject to subsection (8), takes a practical assessment administered
by the certification authority and achieves a minimum score
established by the certification authority, and




(d)

pays to the certification authority a fee that is established by the
certification authority to cover the costs of administering the
written test and, if the practical assessment is required, the
assessment.




(8)

The requirement to take the practical assessment under subsection (7)
(c) does not apply if the certificate holder has, during the term of
the certificate, acquired practical experience of a type and in an
amount established by the certification authority.




(9)

The certification authority may, at any time, set out conditions on
the concrete pump operator's certificate that deal with the following
matters:




(a)

the classes or types of concrete pumps or placing booms to which the
certificate applies;




(b)

safety matters applicable to a particular certificate holder.




(10)

The certification authority may cancel a concrete pump operator's
certificate if the certification authority is satisfied that one or
both of the following apply:




(a)

the certificate holder has contravened one or more of the conditions
of the certificate;




(b)

the certificate holder does not have the knowledge or skill to operate
the equipment specified in the certificate in a competent and safe
manner.

[en. B.C. Reg. 222/2021, App. E.]





Equipment identification




20.27

(1)


A mast must bear a legible identification plate specifying




(a)

the manufacturer's name,




(b)

the year of manufacture,




(c)

the model and serial number, and




(d)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 188/2011, App. I, s. 2 (b).]




(e)

the allowable load.




(2)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 188/2011, App. I, s. 2 (c).]

[am. B.C. Reg. 188/2011, App. I, s. 2.]





Manufacturer's, supplier's or integrator's manual




20.28

(1)


The manufacturer's, supplier's or integrator's manual for a concrete
pump or placing boom, comprised of the documentation listed in clause
4.1.18.1 of
CSA Standard Z151-09, Concrete pumps and placing booms
, must be readily accessible to the operator and to maintenance
personnel.




(2)

The manufacturer's




(a)

operation and maintenance manual for a mast must be readily accessible
to the operator and to maintenance personnel, and




(b)

instructions for erection and use of a mast must be readily accessible
to the installer, the operator and to maintenance personnel.

[en. B.C. Reg. 188/2011, App. I, s. 3.]





Inspection and maintenance records




20.29


Records of inspection and maintenance as required by Part 4 (General
Conditions) of this regulation must be made by the equipment operator
and other persons inspecting and maintaining a concrete pump, placing
boom or mast.

[am. B.C. Reg. 188/2011, App. I, s. 4.]





Pre-use inspection




20.30

(1)


The operator must inspect a concrete pump, placing boom and mast and
test its safety and control devices before use on each shift and
record the results of the inspection and tests in accordance with
section 20.29.




(2)

Any defects found in the concrete pump, placing boom or mast must be
recorded according to section 20.29 and reported immediately to the
supervisor or employer, who must determine the course of action.




(3)

If a defect may affect the safe operation of the concrete pump,
placing boom or mast, the equipment must not be used until the defect
has been remedied.


[am. B.C. Regs. 185/99, s. 58; 188/2011, App. I, s. 5.]






Design and construction




20.30.1


A concrete placing boom, mast and other structural supports must be
designed and constructed so that, when this equipment is operated in
accordance with the manufacturer's intended use, stresses to the load
bearing components do not exceed the components' structural limits and
the equipment is capable of carrying out its design function with an
adequate margin of safety.

[en. B.C. Reg. 188/2011, App. I, s. 6.]





Controls




20.31


Controls for a concrete pump, placing boom or mast must have their
function clearly identified, and be located and maintained to allow
safe operation of the concrete pump, placing boom and mast.

[en. B.C. Reg. 188/2011, App. I, s. 7.]





Hydraulic cylinders




20.32

(1)


Hydraulic cylinders on a concrete pump, placing boom and mast must
have pressure relief valves to prevent cylinder and boom damage due to
excess pressure.




(2)

Hydraulic holding valves must be used on a concrete pump, placing boom
or mast if hydraulic hose or coupling failure could result in
uncontrolled movement of mechanisms.

[am. B.C. Reg. 188/2011, App. I, s. 8.]





Marking weight




20.33


A trailer or skid mounted concrete pump must have a permanent, legible
notice stating the total weight of the unit.






Lifting a pump




20.34


A concrete pump may only be lifted using the lift points specified by
the manufacturer or a professional engineer.






Securing a pump




20.35


The trailer or skid on which a concrete pump is mounted must be
secured to prevent movement during pumping.






Repealed




20.36


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 188/2011, App. I, s. 9.]






Agitator guarding




20.37

(1)


Concrete pump agitator guarding must be maintained to the pump
manufacturer's specifications, with reasonable allowance for wear.




(2)

Bent bars in a concrete pump agitator grill guard must be repaired.




(3)

Concrete pump grill bar spacing may be increased to a maximum bar
spacing of 8 cm (3 1/4 in) when pumping concrete mixes with a slump of
5 cm (2 in) or less and provided specific instructions are
given to the crew regarding the hazard present due to the larger
openings in the grill guard.




(4)

The distance from the grill bars to the concrete pump's agitator must
be at least 7.5 cm (3 in).




(5)

A concrete pump agitator grill guard must be hinged or bolted in
place.




(6)

A person must not stand on the grill when the concrete pump or
agitator is running.






Engine exhaust




20.38


A concrete pump's engine exhaust system must be arranged to prevent
exhaust exposure to the operator and hopper area.






Housekeeping




20.39


The deck area of a concrete pump must be kept clean and free of
unnecessary objects.






Outriggers




20.40

(1)


Outriggers must be used in accordance with the concrete placing boom
manufacturer's specifications.




(2)

Extendible outriggers for a concrete placing boom must be marked to
indicate maximum extension.




(3)

A concrete placing boom manufactured after January 1, 1999 must have
its outriggers or jacks permanently marked to indicate the maximum
load they will transmit to the ground.

[am. B.C. Reg. 188/2011, App. I, s. 10.]





Repealed




20.41

(1)-(2)


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 37 (b).]




(3)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 188/2011, App. I, s. 11.]






Pipe diameter and thickness




20.42

(1)


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 38 (a).]




(2)

The wall thickness of pipe mounted on a concrete placing boom must be
sufficient to withstand a pressure greater than the maximum pressure
that the concrete pump can produce in the concrete being pumped.




(3)

Pipe sections must be replaced when thickness measurements indicate
that wall thickness has been reduced to the limits specified by the
manufacturer.


[am. B.C. Regs. 312/2003, App. B, s. 38; 188/2011, App. I, s. 10.]






Pipe clamps




20.43

(1)


Concrete must not be pumped through pipe with grooved ends, such as
those for Victaulic-type couplers.




(2)

Pipe clamps used with pipe carrying concrete must have a pressure
rating at least equal to the pipe pressure rating.




(3)

To ensure proper connection of concrete delivery pipes, pipe and pipe
clamp contact surfaces must be free of concrete and other foreign
matter when a connection is being made.




(4)

Quick connect clamps used on a concrete delivery pipe must be pinned
or secured after installation to keep them from inadvertently opening.






Delivery pipe




20.44


Delivery pipe between the concrete pump and the placing system must be
supported and anchored to prevent movement and excessive loading on
pipe clamps.






Restraining devices




20.45


Restraining devices providing a safety factor of at least 5 must be
used on attachments suspended from the placing boom or mast tip.






Concrete pump lines




20.46

(1)


Concrete pump discharge line couplings, if located where inadvertent
disconnection could cause injury to workers, must be guarded.




(2)

The guards on a discharge line coupling must be positioned to
effectively deflect in a safe direction any jet of concrete which
might result from disconnection of the coupling.






Equipment inspection




20.47

(1)


A mast must be inspected in accordance with good engineering practice
at intervals not exceeding 12 months, repaired as necessary, and
certified safe for use by a professional engineer, the manufacturer or
the manufacturer's authorized agent.




(2)

A concrete pump and placing boom must be inspected in accordance with
good engineering practice at intervals not exceeding 12 months to
ensure that they meet




(a)

the manufacturer's specifications,




(b)

the requirements of the applicable standard referred to in section
20.26.3, and




(c)

the requirements of this Regulation.




(3)

Without limiting subsection (2), an inspection under that subsection
must include an inspection of the structural, mechanical and control
system components of the concrete pump and placing boom.




(4)

On and after January 1, 2021, a concrete pump and placing boom must
not be used after an inspection under subsection (2) unless a
professional engineer certifies that, on the basis of that inspection,
they are safe for use.


[am. B.C. Regs. 188/2011, App. I, s. 12; 14/2019, App. F, s. 1;
82/2020.]






Repair and modification




20.48

(1)


Replacement parts used for repair of a concrete pump, placing boom or
mast must meet or exceed the original manufacturer's specifications or
be certified by a professional engineer.




(2)

If a repair is made to a load bearing component of a concrete pump,
placing boom or mast,




(a)

the repaired component must meet or exceed the original manufacturer's
specifications, or




(b)

the repair must be certified by a professional engineer,


before the concrete pump, placing boom or mast may be operated.




(3)

If a modification affecting the safe operation of a concrete pump,
placing boom or mast is made to




(a)

the structure,




(b)

one or more mechanical components, or




(c)

the control system


of the concrete pump, placing boom or mast, the concrete pump, placing
boom or mast must be certified as safe for use by a professional
engineer, the manufacturer or the manufacturer's authorized agent
before it may be operated.

[en. B.C. Reg. 188/2011, App. I, s. 13.]





Installation of mast




20.48.1


The design and installation of a mast must be




(a)

in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications, or




(b)

in the absence of manufacturer's specifications, certified by a
professional engineer that the mast will safely support an allowable
load.

[en. B.C. Reg. 188/2011, App. I, s. 14.]





Boom and mast weight




20.49


The weight of each removable section of a concrete placing boom or
mast must be permanently and legibly marked on the section.






Repealed





20.50-

20.52




Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 188/2011, App. I, s. 15.]






Repealed




20.53


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. D, s. 20.]






Hopper signal device




20.54


If a concrete placing boom operator cannot see and monitor the hopper
on the concrete pump from every location the operator must be at
during the pumping activity, there must be a device at the hopper for
the concrete delivery truck driver and other workers to signal the
pump operator if there is a problem at the pump or hopper.




Tilt-up Building Construction





Specifications and plans




20.55

(1)


Before a tilt-up project begins the employer must ensure that a
comprehensive set of plans and specifications is prepared, detailing




(a)

all erection and bracing procedures,




(b)

the type, size and location of all lifting inserts, brace inserts,
braces, fittings and anchors for each panel,




(c)

the required strength to be reached by the concrete before panel
lifting can begin,




(d)

the design wind pressure used to determine temporary bracing
requirements,




(e)

the wind gust speed above which the site must be cleared of workers
when panels are supported by the temporary bracing,




(f)

the requirements for supplementary reinforcing steel, strongbacks, or
other reinforcement to be used during panel erection,




(g)

the method of rigging for lifting and handling each panel,




(h)

procedures for unique job conditions such as the method of temporary
storage on site, and




(i)

the weight of each panel.




(2)

The plans and specifications for tilt-up panel erection and bracing
must be certified by a professional engineer.




(3)

Any change to the plans and specifications required by subsection (1),
including the use of alternate accessories or erection and rigging
procedures, must




(a)

provide at least the same margin of safety as required by the original
design and specifications, and




(b)

be detailed on the documents and be certified by a professional
engineer before it is carried out.




(4)

One set of up-to-date certified plans and specifications must be
maintained on site during lifting and as long as bracing is required
to be in place, and the documents must be available for inspection by
an officer.






Design requirements




20.56

(1)


The plans and specifications for tilt-up panel erection and bracing
must ensure that the load to be imposed on each lifting and bracing
insert and anchor during panel lifting, moving and bracing will not
exceed




(a)

if a working load limit for the insert or anchor is not specified by
the manufacturer, a maximum working load on the component determined
by dividing the manufacturer's guaranteed minimum failure load by the
applicable safety factor required by subsection (2) or (3), or




(b)

if the working load limit or the manufacturer's guaranteed minimum
failure load is not available, a maximum working load determined by
calculating the ultimate load capacity in accordance with accepted
engineering practice and the
BC Building Code
, and dividing this value by the applicable safety factor required by
subsection (2) or (3).




(2)

The minimum safety factor for cast-in lifting inserts is 2.5 except as
provided in section 20.57 (5); and for lift-points secured by
drilled-in anchors, the minimum safety factor is 4.0.




(3)

The minimum safety factors for bracing components are




(a)

1.67 for braces, and for the uplift or sliding of an anchor slab,




(b)

2.0 for cast-in brace inserts, and




(c)

2.5 for drilled-in bolt or expansion anchors, or greater if so
specified by the manufacturer.




(4)

The number of lift inserts for a panel must not be less than the total
weight of the panel divided by the working load limit for the inserts
in pullout and in shear.




(5)

The temporary bracing for a tilt-up panel must be designed to resist
the greater of




(a)

an unfactored design wind pressure of 700 Pa (15 psf), or




(b)

wind pressure calculated in accordance with the
BC Building Code
based on the probability of 1 in 10 of being exceeded in any year, as
listed in the
Supplement to the National Building Code of Canada 1990
or as otherwise specified by the local building authority, multiplied
by a pressure coefficient of 1.5.

[am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 39.]





Panel handling




20.57

(1)


Tilt-up panel lifting and bracing operations must be done under the
direct supervision of a qualified person.




(2)

Tilt-up panel lifting must not start until the specified minimum
concrete strength has been achieved, as verified through testing in a
manner acceptable to the professional engineer responsible for the
lifting and bracing design.




(3)

A suitable bond breaker must be used to minimize adhesion of each
tilt-up panel to the casting surface and wedges and pry bars must be
used to assist in releasing the panel from the casting surface.




(4)

Crane positions must, where practicable, be chosen to avoid blind
lifts.




(5)

If a blind lift is necessary, the crane must be located so that if a
lift component fails the tilt-up panel will not contact the crane, and
if such a crane position is not possible, the safety factor for the
lifting inserts must be at least 4.0.




(6)

Workers are not permitted in the danger area of the downside face of a
tilt-up panel until all bracing components for the panel have been
installed.




(7)

If bracing or other attachments are required on the downside face of a
tilt-up panel, they may only be installed after the panel is erect and
is temporarily braced from the upside face as specified in the
erection procedures.




(8)

All specified tilt-up panel bracing including knee braces and any
welded connection specified for temporary support must be installed as
detailed before the hoisting rigging is slackened.




(9)

Cross-lacing of knee bracing may be done after the hoisting rigging is
disconnected but must be no more than one panel behind the lifting
process.




(10)

All specified bracing must be installed on erected tilt-up panels
before leaving the site at the end of the work day.




(11)

Drilled-in expansion bolts may only be used to secure braces if
specifically authorized by the engineer responsible for the lift and
bracing design.




(12)

Tilt-up panel lifting must not be done if wind gust velocities exceed
55 km/h (35 mph).




(13)

The job site and areas adjacent to braced tilt-up panels must be
cleared of personnel if wind gust velocities exceed
100 km/h (60 mph).






Inspections




20.58

(1)


The professional engineer who certified the erection procedure or the
engineer's designated representative must inspect the site prior to
the start of tilt-up panel lifting to ensure that lift procedures and
temporary bracing requirements are understood, and a follow-up
inspection must occur on the last day of tilt-up panel lifting to
ensure that temporary bracing requirements have been met.




(2)

Following each inspection required by subsection (1) the person
inspecting must issue an inspection report addressing the matters
specified in subsection (1) and a copy of the report must be
maintained at the site while the temporary bracing system is in place.




(3)

Work must not proceed on tilt-up panel lifting or in proximity to
panels which have been temporarily braced until the relevant
requirements of subsections (1) and (2) have been met.






Brace removal




20.59


The temporary bracing installed to support tilt-up panels must not be
removed until the structural design engineer for the building provides
a written statement that the tilt-up panels have been adequately
connected into the overall structure and the temporary bracing is no
longer needed.




Concrete Pre-stressing and Post-tensioning





General requirements




20.60

(1)


Concrete pre-stressing and post-tensioning operations must be done
according to the specifications and instructions of a professional
engineer, and a copy of such information must be available on site
while the work is being done.




(2)

Stressing operations must be carried out under the direction of a
qualified supervisor.




(3)

Workers involved in pre-stressing or post-tensioning must be
instructed in and follow safe work procedures.




(4)

Appropriate eye protection must be worn by all workers involved in
grouting, stressing and cable trimming operations.




(5)

Tendons, including bars, strands and wires, used for tensioning
purposes must be protected against physical damage and corrosion
during handling, transportation and storage.




(6)

Strand couplers must not be reused until they have been inspected by a
qualified person and determined to be safe for reuse.




(7)

Welding, burning or other work must not be permitted on any surface
where strands have been strung or tensioned unless proper care is
taken to protect the strands from sparks or other heat sources and
from stray electric currents.






Signalling devices and restricted areas




20.61

(1)


Visual or audible signalling devices, or both, must be provided and
used in the area of tensioning operations to warn workers approaching
the area.




(2)

Workers not directly involved in tensioning or detensioning operations
must be kept clear of the danger area and must remain clear until
operations are completed and the visual and/or audible signals
specified in subsection (1) are turned off or removed.






Strand measuring




20.62


Strand elongation and strand deflection must be measured by a means
which does not expose the worker to a risk of injury.






Guarding during pre-stressing operations




20.63

(1)


During pre-stressing operations workers must be protected by guards or
other suitable devices at the tensioning ends and anchoring points to
contain the flying strands and the strand vises in the event of strand
failure.




(2)

Guards must be fabricated from mild steel plate, not less than 6 mm
(1/4 in) thick, or steel mesh with openings 25 mm x 25 mm (1 in x
1 in) or less that provides at least equivalent strength.






Deflecting devices




20.64


Deflecting devices must be designed to prevent slipout and to allow
backing off of strands from the deflected position.






Detensioning and strand cutting procedures




20.65

(1)


Written detensioning procedures must be prepared by a professional
engineer and followed so that workers are not exposed to danger from
equipment or strand failure or structural failure.




(2)

Written procedures must be developed and implemented to safeguard the
operator and other workers from hazards while cutting strands.






Strand vises and hydraulic devices




20.66

(1)


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 40.]




(2)

Strand vises must not be reused until they have been inspected by a
qualified person and determined to be safe for reuse.




(3)

Damaged or worn vises and hydraulic equipment must be removed from
service.




(4)

The supervisor must ensure that operators are given the maximum
allowable values for both stretch of the tendon and hydraulic pressure
at the pump.




(5)

If there is a significant difference between the expected value and
the measured value for either stretch of a tendon or hydraulic
pressure at the pump, the workers must stop operations on that
particular tendon and consult with the professional engineer in charge
to obtain instructions on how to proceed.




(6)

Each jack pressure gauge must be checked at frequent intervals against
a master gauge, and the site engineer must be furnished with a
calibration chart.

[am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 40.]





Hydraulic equipment




20.67

(1)


Only hydraulic pressure hoses with self-seating couplings may be used,
and care must be taken to ensure that end connections are not
subjected to bending stresses at any time.




(2)

Hydraulic equipment must have a bypass valve which is adjusted and
maintained to limit the hydraulic pressure so that the tension exerted
by the jack on the tendon does not exceed 90% of the minimum specified
ultimate strength of the tendon.




(3)

Hydraulic hoses must be inspected for flaws, leaks or bubbles after
each stressing operation, and any damaged hoses immediately removed
from service.




(4)

The hydraulic system must be regularly inspected for oil leaks and
other damage and necessary corrective action taken.






Platform width




20.68


Where adequate clearance exists, the platform width at jacking
locations must be at least 80 cm (32 in).






Blowouts




20.69

(1)


Each blowout must be reported to the structural design engineer,
investigated and logged.




(2)

A copy of the logged entry must be available on site for reference
purposes.






Tendon handling




20.70


If there is risk of injury from handling coiled post-tensioning
tendons a suitable coil handling device must be used.






Securing jacks




20.71


All jacks must be secured to suitable anchors before they are
installed on a cable for tensioning, and must not be unsecured before
they are removed from the cable, if a falling jack could endanger
workers.




Open Web Joists and Trusses





Erection instructions




20.72

(1)


Work must not be undertaken on the erection of premanufactured open
web joists and trusses until clear and appropriate written
instructions from a professional engineer or the manufacturer of the
joists or trusses, detailing safe erection procedures, are available
at the worksite.




(2)

Erection and temporary bracing of open web joists and trusses must be
done in accordance with the written instructions required by
subsection (1).




Roof Work





Repealed




20.73


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 420/2004, s. 10.]






Crawl boards and ladders




20.74

(1)


Crawl boards or ladders used for roof work must be securely fastened
over the ridge of the roof, or must be otherwise effectively anchored.




(2)

The use of an eavestrough to support a crawl board or ladder on a roof
is prohibited.






Steep roof requirements




20.75


If a worker is employed on a roof having a slope ratio of 8 vertical
to 12 horizontal or greater, the worker must use a personal fall
protection system or personnel safety nets must be used, and 38 mm x
140 mm (2 in x 6 in nominal) toe-holds must be used if the roofing
material allows for it.






Chutes and hoists




20.76


The roof edge about a chute, bitumen spout and material hoist must
have guardrails meeting the requirements of Part 4 (General
Conditions) or barriers of at least equivalent strength to at least
2 m (6.5 ft.) on each side of such a work area.






Mechanical equipment




20.77


Mechanical or powered equipment which has the potential to push or
pull a worker over an unguarded edge must not be used unless operated
according to procedures acceptable to the Board.

[am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 41.]



Excavations





Work standards




20.78

(1)


Subject to this section, excavation work must be done in accordance
with the written instructions of a qualified registered professional
if




(a)

the excavation is more than 6 m (20 ft.) deep,




(b)

an improvement or structure is adjacent to the excavation,




(c)

the excavation is subject to vibration or hydrostatic pressure likely
to result in ground movement hazardous to workers, or




(d)

the ground slopes away from the edge of the excavation at an angle
steeper than a ratio of 3 horizontal to 1 vertical.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), excavation work described in that subsection
must be done in accordance with the written instructions of a
professional engineer if the excavation requires or uses support
structures.




(3)

The written instructions required by this section must




(a)

be certified by the qualified registered professional concerned,




(b)

be available at the site, and




(c)

specify the support and sloping requirements, and the subsurface
conditions expected to be encountered.

[en. B.C. Reg. 258/2008, App. F, s. 3.]





Underground utility services




20.79

(1)


Before excavating or drilling with powered tools and equipment, the
location of all underground utility services in the area must be
accurately determined, and any danger to workers from those utility
services must be controlled.




(2)

Excavation or drilling work in proximity to an underground utility
service must be undertaken in conformity with the requirements of the
owner of that utility service.




(3)

Pointed tools must not be used to probe for underground petroleum and
electrical utility services.




(4)

Powered equipment used for excavating must be operated so as to avoid
damage to underground utility services or danger to workers.


[am. B.C. Regs. 312/2003, App. E, s. 15; 312/2010, App. D, s. 3.]






Removing nearby hazards




20.80


Trees, utility poles, rocks and similar objects adjacent to an area to
be excavated must be removed or secured if they could endanger
workers.






Sloping and shoring requirements




20.81

(1)


Subject to section 20.78, before a worker enters any excavation over
1.2 m (4 ft.) in depth or, while in the excavation,
approaches closer to the side or bank than a distance equal to the
depth of the excavation, the employer must ensure that the sides of
the excavation are




(a)

sloped as specified in writing by a qualified registered professional,




(b)

sloped at angles, dependent on soil conditions, which will ensure
stable faces, but in no case may the slope or combination of vertical
cut and slope exceed that shown in Figure 20-1,




(c)

benched as shown in Figure 20-2,




(d)

supported as specified in writing by a professional engineer,




(e)

supported in accordance with the minimum requirements of section
20.85, or




(f)

supported by manufactured or prefabricated trench boxes or shoring
cages, or other effective means.




(2)

If the end of a trench over 1.2 m (4 ft.) in depth is not
adequately sloped, end shoring must be installed unless




(a)

a worker in the trench is not required to approach closer to the end
of the trench than a distance equal to the depth of the trench at that
end,




(b)

where, for the prevailing soil conditions at the end of the trench,
the permissible spacing of uprights equals or exceeds the width of the
trench, or




(c)

otherwise authorized in writing by a professional engineer or
professional geoscientist.




(3)

If end shoring is required, the walers for the end shoring must be
installed to bear against the walers that extend along the sides of
the trench, or in a manner that will provide equivalent structural
restraint.




(4)

End shoring must be designed by a professional engineer if the end
shoring waler length exceeds 1.8 m (6 ft.).




(5)

Shoring must extend from at least 30 cm (1 ft.) above ground
level to as close to the bottom of the trench as the material being
installed will allow, but in no case more than
60 cm (2 ft.) from the bottom.




(6)

Shoring need not extend above ground level where traffic crossing
plates need to be used, provided that other measures are taken to
prevent excavated or other material from entering the excavation.


[am. B.C. Regs. 253/2001, s. 15; 258/2008, App. F, s. 4.]






Timber shoring and grades




20.82

(1)


Timber shoring materials must be lumber graded Number 2 or better from
the following species groups: Douglas fir-larch, hemlock-fir,
spruce-pine-fir or coast-Sitka-spruce.




(2)

All lumber must be graded to the National Lumber Grades Authority
Standard Grading Rules for Canadian Lumber
.

[am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. A, s. 24.]





Safe shoring procedures




20.83

(1)


Shoring materials must be installed from the top down and removed in
reverse order.




(2)

Workers must not enter an excavation to remove shoring materials if
ground conditions have deteriorated so as to make entry for shoring
removal unsafe.




(3)

Shoring or manufactured or prefabricated support systems must be
installed in firm contact with the faces of the excavation, and in a
manner which ensures no loss of soil from behind or below the bottom
of the shield or shoring while the excavation is open.




(4)

Unless otherwise indicated by the manufacturer or a professional
engineer, in writing, voids between the shoring and the excavation
face must be backfilled or blocked.






Repealed




20.84


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 42.]






Trench support structures




20.85

(1)


Trench support structures, other than those designed by a professional
engineer, must comply with Table 20-1 for the following relevant soil
conditions:






Soil type




Description of soil







A

B

C


hard and solid

likely to crack or crumble

soft, sandy, filled or loose







(2)

If Table 20-1 is to be used for a combination of supporting and
sloping, the selection of shoring elements must be based on the
overall depth of the excavation and the arrangement must conform to
Figure 20-3.




(3)

Cross braces and trench jacks must be installed in a horizontal
position and must be secured against dislodgment.




(4)

The minimum number of cross braces at each cross bracing location is
determined by the trench depth as follows:






Depth at location




Number of braces







up to 2.4 m (8 ft)

2.4 m to 3.7 m (8 ft to 12 ft)

3.7 m to 4.6 m (12 ft to 15 ft)

4.6 m to 6 m (15 ft to 20 ft)


2

3

4

5







(5)

At each cross bracing location the cross braces must be less than
1.2 m (4 ft) apart, and the uppermost cross brace must be
within 60 cm (2 ft) of ground level.




(6)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 43.]




(7)

Hydraulic or pneumatic trench jacks must have a means of ensuring that
they will not collapse in the event of loss of internal pressure.




(8)

Uprights must not spread outwards more than 15 degrees from the
vertical when viewed along the trench.




(9)

Plywood may be substituted for two inch thick shoring elements
provided that




(a)

the plywood is not less than 19 mm (3/4 in) thick,




(b)

the trench is not over 2.7 m (9 ft) in depth,




(c)

uprights are installed at not over 60 cm (2 ft) centres,




(d)

cross braces do not bear directly on plywood, and




(e)

cross braces bearing on uprights or walers are located at all joints
in plywood sheathing.

[am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 43.]





Spoil piles




20.86


If the average depth of a spoil pile which is adjacent to a supported
excavation exceeds 60 cm (2 ft), the selection of the shoring or
shielding must take into account the resulting increase in lateral
soil pressure.






Entry and exit




20.87

(1)


Safe means of entry and exit must be provided for an excavation a
worker enters.




(2)

If workers are required to enter a trench over 1.2 m (4 ft)
deep, the safe point of entry and exit must be located within 8 m
(25 ft) of the workers and the excavation must be safely
supported or sloped to the entry and exit location.




(3)

Walkways must be secured to prevent dislodgment.




(4)

The open side of an access route into an excavation used by mobile
equipment must have a curb.






Guarding




20.88


If an excavation is a hazard to workers, it must be effectively
covered or guarded.






Excavation crossings




20.89


A walkway across an excavation must be at least 50 cm (20 in) wide,
and if crossing an excavation over 1.2 m (4 ft) deep, be
equipped with guardrails, meeting the requirements of Part 4 (General
Conditions), on both sides.






Excavated materials




20.90

(1)


Excavated material must be kept back a minimum distance of 60 cm
(2 ft) from the edge of a trench excavation and 1.2 m
(4 ft) from any other excavation.




(2)

Under no circumstances may excavated material be piled so that it
endangers workers.






Use of skips or buckets




20.91


If a skip or bucket is used to remove material from an excavation,
horizontal shoring members must be shielded from dislodgment with
vertical planking.






Scaling and trimming




20.92


The sides of an excavation must be scaled and trimmed or otherwise
stabilized to prevent slides of material or falls of rock which could
endanger workers.






Height limitations




20.93


In pits, quarries and similar excavations the height of unstable faces
must not exceed the maximum safe reach of the excavating equipment
being used.






Positioning equipment




20.94


Whenever possible, power machines excavating banks must be positioned
so that the operator is on the side away from the bank and with the
boom positioned closest to the side of the excavation.






Water accumulation




20.95

(1)


Water must not be allowed to accumulate in an excavation if it might
affect the stability of the excavation or might endanger workers.




(2)

Erosion of slopes by surface water must be prevented if workers may be
endangered.




Table 20-1: Trench support structures

Size and spacing of members

1

(metric figures)






Uprights




Walers




Cross Braces







Trench depth

(metres)


Minimum

dimensions

(millimetres)

2



Maximum

spacing

(metres)


Minimum

dimensions

(millimetres)

2



Maximum

vertical

spacing

(metres)


Width of trench

(metres)


Maximum spacing (metres)



Up to 1.8
1.8-3.7

Vertical


Horizontal




Minimum dimensions

(millimetres)

2





Type A: Hard and solid soil




1.2-3

3


38 x 235
1.8
89 x 140
1.2
89 x 89
140 x 140
1.2
1.8


3-4.6
38 x 235
1.2
140 x 140
1.2
89 x 140
140 x 191
1.2
1.8


4.6-6
38 x 235
Close tight
140 x 140
1.2
140 x 191
191 x 191
1.2
1.8



Type B: Soil likely to crack or crumble




1.2-3

3


38 x 235
1.2
89 x 140
1.2
89 x 140
140 x 140
1.2
1.8


3-4.6
38 x 235
0.9
140 x 191
1.2
140 x 140
140 x 191
1.2
1.8


4.6-6
38 x 235
Close tight
140 x 191
1.2
140 x 191
191 x 191
1.2
1.8



Type C: Soft, sandy, filled or loose soil




1.2-3

3


38 x 235
Close tight
140 x 191
1.2
140 x 140
140 x 191
1.2
1.8


3-4.6
38 x 235
Close tight
191 x 191
1.2
140 x 191
191 x 191
1.2
1.8


4.6-6
38 x 235
Close tight
191 x 241
1.2
140 x 191
191 x 241
1.2
1.8






Size and spacing of members

1

(imperial figures)





Uprights


Walers


Cross Braces




Trench depth

(feet)


Minimum dimensions

(inches)

2



Maximum spacing

(feet)


Minimum

dimensions

(inches)

2



Maximum

vertical

spacing

(feet)


Width of trench

(feet)


Maximum spacing

(feet)



Up to 6
6-12

Vertical


Horizontal




Minimum dimensions

(inches)

2





Type A: Hard and solid soil




4-10

3


2 x 10
6

4 x 6

4


4
4 x 4
6 x 6
4
6


10-15
2 x 10
4
6 x 6
4
4 x 6
6 x 8
4
6


15-20
2 x 10
Close tight
6 x 6
4
6 x 8
8 x 8
4
6



Type B: Soil likely to crack or crumble




4-10

3


2 x 10
4
4 x 6
4
4 x 6
6 x 6
4
6


10-15
2 x 10
3
6 x 8
4
6 x 6
6 x 8
4
6


15-20
2 x 10
Close tight
6 x 8
4
6 x 8
8 x 8
4
6



Type C: Soft, sandy, filled or loose soil




4-10

3


2 x 10
Close tight
6 x 8
4
6 x 6
6 x 8
4
6


10-15
2 x 10
Close tight
8 x 8
4
6 x 8
8 x 8
4
6


15-20
2 x 10
Close tight
8 x 10
4
6 x 8
8 x 10
4
6











1.


The dimensions shown are minimum and must be increased
if necessary to meet job conditions.








2.


The dimensions of members in millimetres are actual
dimensions for surfaced dry materials. The dimensions in
inches are the nominal values for surfaced dry
materials.








3.


Trenches less than 1.2 m (4 ft) deep must be
shored when hazardous ground movement may be expected,
as in ground subject to hydrostatic pressure or
vibration.








4.


Walers may be omitted in trenches not exceeding
2.4 m (8 ft) in depth provided that it has
been confirmed that the soil is sufficiently hard and
solid to safely permit waler deletion, and provided that
the trench is not in proximity to previously excavated
ground.









Figure 20-1: Sloping in lieu of shoring





Case 1 (trench or bulk excavation) — maximum slope of excavated face,
shown as line AB, in hard and solid soil is 3 horizontal to 4
vertical.


Case 2 (trench or bulk excavation) — maximum height of vertical
portion, shown as line AB is 1.2 metres (4 feet).


For Case 2 (trench or bulk excavation) the maximum permissible slope
of the excavated face BC for the corresponding height of the lower
vertical cut AB is as follows:






Height of line AB





Maximum slope of line BC

(in hard and solid soil)







centimetres




feet






up to 30
up to 1

1 horizontal (H) to 1 vertical (V)



30 to 60
1 to 2
3H to 2V


60 to 90
2 to 3
2H to 1V


90 to 120
3 to 4
3H to 1V




Figure 20-2: Benching in lieu of shoring





Figure 20-3: Combined supporting and sloping




Shoring must be adequate for excavation depth H.
Depth H cannot exceed 6 metres (20 feet).



Scaling Operations





Definitions




20.96


In sections 20.97 to 20.101:


"rappel"
means the method of moving down a face or other steep slope by means
of a rope secured above and placed around a controlled descent device
secured to a belt or harness worn by a worker, and payed out gradually
in the descent;



"sit harness"

means a body support device consisting of thigh and waist loops;



"work positioning"

means a form of fall restraint that holds a worker in a work position.






Work from top down




20.97


Rock scaling and like work must be undertaken from the top down, and
any area into which material will fall must be kept clear of workers
and equipment.






Rappelling and work positioning systems




20.98

(1)


A worker on a rock face or other steep slope must be protected from
falling by a work positioning or rappelling system, or by a fall
arrest system as required by Part 11 (Fall Protection).




(2)

A single rope work positioning system may be used by a worker to
rappel to and remain in work locations on a rock face or other steep
slope if tension is maintained in the rappel rope at all times so that
the worker is not exposed to a free fall.




(3)

If the work practice could result in a slack line in the rappel or
work positioning system and a fall could occur, a personal fall arrest
system, independently anchored, meeting the requirements of Part 11
(Fall Protection) must be used.




(4)

Rappelling techniques must provide for automatic stopping by means of
a mechanical fall arrestor, Prusik sling or other device acceptable to
the Board.




(5)

A rappelling or fall protection system must be used in a manner that
minimizes the swing-fall hazard.






Rappelling ropes




20.99


A rappelling rope must




(a)

be synthetic fibre rope with a breaking strength specified by the
manufacturer of at least 27 kN (6 000 lbs) or be at least 16 mm
(5/8 in) diameter wire-cored fibre rope,




(b)

be long enough to reach a safe landing spot from which egress without
rappelling is possible, and




(c)

not be lengthened by tying ropes together.






Anchors and other hardware




20.100

(1)


The ultimate load capacity of an anchor for a rappelling or fall
protection line must be at least
22 kN (5 000 lbs).




(2)

Each rappel line and fall arrest lifeline that is tied to a natural
anchor such as a suitable tree, stump or rock outcrop must also be
tied to a second anchor of at least equal load capacity.




(3)

A rappelling rope must be attached to an anchor and, where
practicable, must be positioned to avoid bearing on any sharp edge or
surface likely to cause rope damage, and if it is not practicable to
avoid sharp edges or surfaces, rope protectors or wire-cored rope must
be used.






Harnesses




20.101


A sit harness with rope attachment below waist level may be used for
work positioning or rappelling.




Marine Construction, Pile Driving and Dredging





Suspended work platforms




20.102

(1)


Suspended work platforms such as gilley boards, small boats and
buckets used to support workers must meet the requirements for
suspended work platforms in Part 13 (Ladders, Scaffolds and Temporary
Work Platforms).




(2)

Despite section 13.27 (5), a secondary hoisting line on a crane may be
used to suspend workers on a work platform in a marine construction or
pile driving operation if




(a)

it is not practicable to provide another means for positioning workers
to perform work tasks,




(b)

all of the crane's hoisting gear that is being used conforms to
section 13.29 (1), and




(c)

the total load attached to or suspended from all load lines of the
crane does not exceed 50% of the rated capacity of the crane for the
reach and configuration.

[am. B.C. Reg. 19/2006, s.10.]





Hoisting piles




20.103


When a pile is being hoisted in the leads only workers engaged in that
operation may remain on the superstructure or in any area into which
the pile could fall.






Operator protection




20.104


Each hoisting winch must have a suitable roof or shelter to protect
the operator from falling objects, rigging failures and from the
weather.






Exhaust discharge




20.105


Any exhaust gases and any air or steam discharge must be controlled so
as not to harm workers or interfere with the ability of the operator
or other workers to see the operation as necessary to work safely.






Chocking the hammer




20.106

(1)


The pile driver operator must ensure that a suspended hammer is
securely chocked when not in use.




(2)

On a pile driver with swinging or suspended leads the hammer must not
be raised until necessary.






Pile heads




20.107

(1)


A head of a wooden pile must be




(a)

cut square and cleaned of debris, bark and slivers before being
driven, and




(b)

trimmed to fit the follower or pile driving cap.




(2)

The follower or pile driving cap being used must be of a size and type
suitable for the type of piling being driven.






Cracked hammer




20.108


A drop hammer that is cracked must not be used.






Splicing




20.109


Ropes used to support the hammer of a pile driver must not be spliced.






Walkway on discharge line




20.110

(1)


A worker must not be on a floating discharge line unless a walkway has
been provided.




(2)

The walkway on a floating discharge line must be at least 50 cm (20
in.) wide, have guardrails meeting the requirements of Part 4 (General
Conditions), and be adequately illuminated during night use.




Demolition





Structural integrity




20.111

(1)


If a structure is to be demolished in whole or in part, the structure
and any adjoining structures, the integrity of which could be
compromised by the demolition, must be supported to the extent and in
a manner prescribed by a professional engineer.




(2)

Design of the support system described in subsection (1) must include
a schedule, based on the stages of demolition, for installation of the
components of the support system, and a copy of the support system
plan must be available at the demolition site.




(3)

While salvage is taking place before or during the demolition process,
the integrity of the structure must be maintained.




(4)

If the nature and method of demolition will not endanger workers and
the stability of adjoining grounds and structures will not be
compromised, engineered demolition plans and designs are not required.






Hazardous materials




20.112

(1)


In this section:



"hazardous material"

means a hazardous substance, or material containing a hazardous
substance, including




(a)

asbestos-containing material,




(b)

lead or any other heavy metal, or




(c)

toxic, flammable or explosive material,


that may be handled, disturbed or removed in the course of the
demolition or salvage of machinery, equipment, a building or a
structure, or the renovation of a building or structure;



"qualified person"

, except in subsections (7) and (8), means a person who




(a)

has, through education and training, knowledge of the management and
control of the hazardous materials that the qualified person is made
aware of by the employers, and the owner, or that are reasonably
foreseeable by the qualified person, as being




(i)

on or in the machinery, equipment, building or structure that is the
subject of the demolition, salvage or renovation, or




(ii)

at the worksite, and




(b)

has experience in the management and control of those hazardous
materials.




(2)

Before work begins on the demolition or salvage of machinery,
equipment, a building or a structure, or the renovation of a building
or structure, all employers responsible for that work, and the owner,
must ensure that a qualified person inspects the machinery, equipment,
building or structure and the worksite to identify the hazardous
materials, if any.




(3)

In conducting an inspection and identifying the hazardous materials,
if any, under subsection (2), a qualified person must do the
following:




(a)

collect representative samples of the material that may be hazardous
material;




(b)

identify each representative sample and determine whether it is
hazardous material;




(c)

if the actions under paragraphs (a) and (b) are not practicable, or
not appropriate in the circumstances, use other sufficient means to
identify the hazardous materials, if any;




(d)

based on the actions taken under paragraphs (a) and (b) or (c),
determine the location of each of the hazardous materials identified;




(e)

make a written report of the inspection, including,




(i)

if the actions under paragraphs (a) and (b) were taken,




(A)

the location of each representative sample, and




(B)

the identity of each representative sample and whether it is hazardous
material,




(ii)

if the actions under paragraph (c) were taken, the identity of each of
the hazardous materials, if any,




(iii)

a description of the methods used under paragraph (b) or (c),




(iv)

the location, as determined under paragraph (d), of each of the
hazardous materials identified, including by using drawings, plans or
specifications, and




(v)

the approximate quantity of each of the hazardous materials
identified.




(4)

All employers responsible for work being carried out on the worksite
where the demolition or salvage of the machinery, equipment, building
or structure, or the renovation of the building or structure is taking
place, and the owner, must ensure that the following information is
available at the worksite:




(a)

a report made under subsection (3) (e);




(b)

a report made under subsection (6) (e);




(c)

a written confirmation under subsection (8).




(5)

All employers responsible for containing or removing any of the
hazardous materials identified under subsection (2) or (6) must safely
contain or remove those hazardous materials.




(6)

If, after written confirmation is provided under subsection (8), a
person discovers material that may be hazardous material on or in the
machinery, equipment, building or structure or at the worksite, not
previously determined to be hazardous material under this section, all
employers responsible for the demolition or salvage of the machinery,
equipment, building or structure, or the renovation of the building or
structure, and the owner, must ensure that a qualified person does the
following:




(a)

collects representative samples of the material;




(b)

identifies each representative sample and determines whether it is
hazardous material;




(c)

if the actions under paragraphs (a) and (b) are not practicable, or
not appropriate in the circumstances, uses other sufficient means to
determine if the material is hazardous material;




(d)

based on the actions taken under paragraphs (a) and (b) or (c),
determines the location of the hazardous material, if any;




(e)

makes a written report, including,




(i)

if the actions under paragraphs (a) and (b) were taken,




(A)

the location of each representative sample, and




(B)

the identity of each representative sample and whether it is hazardous
material,




(ii)

if the actions under paragraph (c) were taken, the identity of the
hazardous material, if any, and




(iii)

if hazardous material was identified, the location of the hazardous
material, including by using drawings, plans or specifications.




(7)

All employers responsible for the demolition or salvage of the
machinery, equipment, building or structure, or the renovation of the
building or structure, and the owner, must ensure that, with respect
to the hazardous materials identified under subsection (2) or (6),




(a)

no demolition, salvage or renovation work that may disturb the
hazardous materials, other than work necessary to safely contain or
remove the hazardous materials, is carried out until the hazardous
materials are safely contained or removed, and




(b)

a qualified person complies with subsection (8).




(8)

A qualified person must ensure, and confirm in writing, that the
hazardous materials identified under subsection (2) or (6) are safely
contained or removed.

[en. B.C. Reg. 199/2014, App. H, s. 1.]





Disconnecting utility services




20.113


Demolition must not proceed until all utility services which may
endanger a worker have been disconnected in the manner required by the
owner of the applicable utility service.

[en. B.C. Reg. 312/2010, App. D, s. 4.]





Glass removal




20.114

(1)


If glass in a building or other structure could endanger workers it
must be removed before other demolition commences.




(2)

Glass removal must proceed in an orderly manner from the top to the
bottom of the structure.






Repealed




20.115


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. C, s. 6.]






Protection from falling materials




20.116

(1)


If falling material could endanger a worker, the danger area must be
guarded to prevent entry by workers or protected by adequate canopies.




(2)

A floor or roof opening through which material may fall and endanger
workers must be adequately covered.






Throwing material




20.117


If material is to be dropped or thrown from upper floors, the area
into which the material will fall must be barricaded to prevent
workers from entering the area and conspicuous warning signs must be
displayed to advise of the danger.






Stabilizing walls




20.118


If a dangerous or unstable wall is to be left standing, it must be
adequately braced.






Dismantling buildings




20.119


During the dismantling or renovation of a building or structure,
materials of a size or weight which may endanger workers must not be
loosened or allowed to fall, unless procedures are used that will
adequately protect workers.






Housekeeping




20.120


Material and debris must not be allowed to accumulate on floors or on
the ground outside the building or structure if workers will be
endangered.






Stairways




20.121


Stairways, complete with handrails, must be left intact until access
to the level they serve is no longer required.




Work in Compressed Air





Medical fitness




20.122


Whenever work is carried out at an air pressure greater than 7 kPa (1
psi) above atmospheric pressure, the employer must ensure that the
workers are medically examined by a physician knowledgeable in
hyperbaric medicine, as required by the Board.






Compliance with standards




20.123


The employer must ensure that equipment and work processes carried out
at an air pressure greater than 7 kPa (1 psi) above atmospheric
pressure meet the requirements of

CSA Standard CAN/CSA-Z275.3-M86, Occupational Safety Code for
Construction Work in Compressed Air

.

[am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. A, s. 5.]



Contents
|



Parts 1 to 3

|


Part 4
|


Part 5
|


Part 6
|


Part 7
|


Part 8
|


Part 9
|



Parts 10 to 11

|


Part 12
|


Part 13
|


Part 14
|


Part 15
|


Part 16
|



Parts 17 to 18

|


Part 19
|

Part 20 |

Part 21
|


Part 22
|


Part 23
|


Part 24
|



Parts 25 to 26

|


Part 27
|


Part 28
|



Parts 29 to 34

|



Schedules





