





View Complete Statute



School Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 412



Part 8.1 — Francophone Education Authorities



Division 1 — Interpretation





Definitions




166.1


In this Part:


"authority"
means a francophone education authority;



"board of regional trustees"

means the board of regional trustees of a francophone education
authority constituted under this Part;



"francophone catchment area"

means, in relation to a francophone school, the geographical area
established under section 166.251 as the francophone catchment
area for the francophone school;



"general election"

means an election referred to in section 166.18;


"member"
means a person who is admitted as a member of a francophone education
authority under this Part;


"president"
means the president of a francophone education authority elected under
this Part;



"regional trustee"

means an elected or appointed trustee of a francophone education
authority.






Interpretation




166.11

(1)


Where, in this Part, a provision of this Act is made to apply for the
purposes of this Part, a reference in that provision to a word or
phrase listed in Column A is to be read as a reference to the word or
phrase listed opposite in Column B.





Column A


Column B



assistant superintendent

assistant to the directeur général of a francophone education
authority



board
francophone education authority


board of education
francophone education authority


chair

president of a francophone education authority



director of instruction

francophone director of instruction



district
francophone school district


educational program
francophone educational program


elector

member of a francophone education authority



principal
francophone principal


school
francophone school


school district
francophone school district


secretary-treasurer

secrétaire trésorier of a francophone  education authority



student
francophone student


superintendent

directeur général of a francophone education authority



teacher
francophone teacher


trustee

regional trustee of a francophone education authority



vice chair

vice president of a francophone education authority



vice principal
francophone vice principal.






(2)

If an order or regulation referred to in section 175 (7) is made to
apply for the purposes of this Part, a reference in that order or
regulation to a word or phrase listed in Column A of subsection (1) is
to be read as a reference to the word or phrase listed opposite in
Column B.




(3)

If a provision that applies for the purposes of this Part refers to a
word or phrase that is defined in section 1 of this Act but is
not listed in Column A of subsection (1), a reference in that
definition to a word or phrase listed in Column A of
subsection (1) is to be read as a reference to the word or phrase
listed opposite in Column B.




(4)

Despite subsection (1), in applying the following provisions for the
purposes of this Part, the references to a board are to be read as
references to the board of regional trustees of a francophone
education authority:




(a)

the references to a board in sections 15 (6) and (7), 54, 58 (1) and
(3), 68 (4), 69 (1) to (3), 70, 72 (1) and (4), 143 (2) (c), 144 (1)
(a) and 177 (2) and (4);




(b)

the first reference to a board in each of sections 69 (4), 72 (3), 157
(4) and 161 (1) (d) and (2);




(c)

the second reference to a board in sections 61 (1) and (2) and 72 (2).




(5)

If, in a provision of this Act that applies for the purposes of this
Part, a reference is made to another provision of this Act, that
reference is, for the purposes of this Part, deemed to be a reference
to that other provision as it is to be read under this section.




(6)

Section 42 applies for determining residency for the purposes of this
Part.




Division 2 — Establishment and Membership





Establishment of francophone education authorities




166.12

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may, by regulation,




(a)

establish a francophone education authority,




(b)

assign a name to a francophone education authority, and




(c)

prescribe an area, to be known as a francophone school district, over
which a francophone education authority has jurisdiction.




(2)

A francophone education authority established under
subsection (1) is a corporation consisting of those persons
admitted as members under section 166.13.




(2.1)

A francophone education authority is responsible for the improvement
of francophone student achievement in the francophone school district.




(3)

For the purposes of carrying out its powers, functions and duties
under this Act, a francophone education authority has the power and
capacity of a natural person of full capacity.




(4)

The francophone education authority known as the Autorite Scolaire
established under B.C. Reg. 457/95, the Francophone Education
Regulation, is continued as a francophone education authority under
the name "Conseil Scolaire Francophone de la Colombie-Britannique".




(5)

The authority continued under subsection (4) is a corporation
consisting of its members in good standing on the day this section
comes into force and those other members admitted in accordance with
this Part.




(6)

On the day they take office, the regional trustees of a francophone
education authority continued under subsection (4) who are elected in
the general election of regional trustees constitute the board of
regional trustees of that authority.




(7)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may, by regulation,




(a)

alter the boundaries of the area prescribed under subsection (1) (c),




(b)

change the name of a francophone education authority, or




(c)

abolish a francophone education authority.




(8)

A variation in the membership of a francophone education authority
that occurs as a result of an alteration under subsection (7) (a) does
not abolish the francophone education authority.




(9)

The assets of a francophone education authority, including funds, must
be disposed of as directed by the Lieutenant Governor in Council,
having regard to the rights of creditors, if, under subsection (7)




(a)

the area over which the francophone education authority has
jurisdiction is reduced,




(b)

all or part of the area over which the francophone education authority
has jurisdiction is included in the area over which another
francophone education authority has jurisdiction, or




(c)

the francophone education authority is abolished.




(10)

Without limiting subsection (9), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make provision for




(a)

the use and administration of property used and administered by the
francophone education authority but not vested in the authority,




(b)

the transfer and payment of the liabilities of the francophone
education authority and for raising funds necessary for payment of
those liabilities, or




(c)

the use and expenditure of the proceeds of the sale of any asset of
the francophone education authority.




(11)

Section 31 (4) applies for the purposes of this Part.






Membership in a francophone education authority




166.13

(1)


Any eligible person, and any immigrant parent, who is resident in an
area prescribed by regulation of the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may apply to become a member of a francophone education authority by
providing to the authority a signed statement in the prescribed form.




(2)

A francophone education authority




(a)

must admit as a member an eligible person who applies under subsection
(1), and




(b)

may admit as a member an immigrant parent who applies under subsection
(1).




(3)

A francophone education authority must not charge its members any
membership dues or other fees or assessments related to acquiring or
maintaining membership in the authority.




(4)

A person is not disqualified from being a member of a francophone
education authority merely because the person




(a)

voted in a trustee election, or




(b)

was nominated for, was elected or appointed to or holds office as a
trustee.




(5)

A person ceases to be a member of a francophone education authority if
the person




(a)

is no longer an eligible person or an immigrant parent,




(b)

is no longer resident in the area prescribed under subsection (1), or




(c)

delivers the person's resignation in writing to the secrétaire
trésorier of the authority or mails or delivers it to the address of
the authority.






Members' right to vote




166.14

(1)


Subject to subsections (2) to (6), the members of a francophone
education authority are entitled to vote in an election of regional
trustees of the authority, other than the first regional trustees
appointed under section 166.17 (1).




(2)

In order to vote in an election referred to in subsection (1), a
person must meet all of the following requirements at the time of
voting:




(a)

the person must be age 18 or older;




(b)

the person must be a Canadian citizen;




(c)

the person must have been a member of the francophone education
authority for which the election is held for at least 120 days;




(d)

the person must not be disqualified by this Act or another enactment
from voting in the election or be otherwise disqualified by law.




(3)

The following persons are disqualified from voting in an election
referred to in subsection (1):




(a)

a person who has not completed the sentence for an indictable offence,
unless the person is released on probation or parole and is not in
custody;




(b)

a person who is involuntarily confined to a psychiatric or other
institution as a result of being acquitted of or found not criminally
responsible for an offence under the

Criminal Code

on account of mental disorder;




(c)

[Repealed 2014-19-108.]




(d)

a person who, in relation to that election, has contravened section
161 (3) of the

Local Government Act

, as that section applies to an election referred to in subsection
(1).




(4)

In addition to the persons referred to in subsection (3), a person who
fails to comply with subsection (5) is also disqualified from voting
in an election referred to in subsection (1).




(5)

A person who wishes to vote in an election referred to in subsection
(1) must




(a)

make a declaration in the prescribed form that the person has not and
will not vote in an election of school trustees to which the
declaration applies, and




(b)

file the declaration referred to in paragraph (a) with the francophone
education authority.




(6)

Subsection (5) applies only to an election referred to in subsection
(1) that occurs in 1999 or later.




(7)

A person must not vote in an election referred to in subsection (1)
unless entitled to do so.




(8)

For the purpose of elections referred to in subsection (1), the
Lieutenant Governor in Council may, by regulation,




(a)

establish wards for the area prescribed under section 166.13 (1), and




(b)

alter the boundaries of the wards established under paragraph (a).






Repealed





166.15-

166.16



[Repealed 1999-8-22.]




Division 3 — Regional Trustees





Appointment of first regional trustees




166.17

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may appoint as the first regional
trustees of a francophone education authority those eligible persons
who the Lieutenant Governor in Council considers represent the
interests of the eligible persons resident in the area prescribed
under section 166.13 (1).




(2)

The regional trustees appointed under subsection (1) hold office for a
term set by the Lieutenant Governor in Council.






General election of regional trustees




166.18

(1)


A general election of regional trustees of a francophone education
authority must be conducted in accordance with the regulations and
held in the year 2014 and in every 4th year after that.




(1.1)

The 3rd Saturday of October in the year of a general election is to be
known as election day.




(1.2)

On election day, the secrétaire trésorier must declare the results of
the general election.




(2)

The number of regional trustees to be elected under subsection (1) is
3, 5, 7 or 9 regional trustees, as prescribed by the Lieutenant
Governor in Council.




(3)

Subject to section 166.19 (2), the term of office of a regional
trustee elected under subsection (1)




(a)

begins on the first Monday after November 1 following the general
election of regional trustees or when the person takes office in
accordance with section 166.19 (2), whichever is later, and




(b)

ends immediately before the first Monday after November 1 in the year
of the next general election of regional trustees or when at least 3
regional trustees elected or appointed following that election have
taken office, whichever is later.




(4)

A candidate for election as a regional trustee who is not elected and
who alleges that the candidate should have been elected may, not more
than 10 days after receiving notice of the outcome of the
election, apply to the Supreme Court for an order declaring the
applicant to be elected in place of the candidate declared to be
elected under the regulations.




(5)

A person who holds office as a trustee is disqualified from standing
for election for, being elected to or holding office as a regional
trustee of a francophone education authority.




(6)

If a regional trustee of a francophone education authority is
continuously absent from board meetings for a period of 3 consecutive
months, unless the absence is because of illness or is with the
permission of the board of regional trustees, the office of the
regional trustee is deemed to be vacant and the person who held the
office is disqualified from holding office as a regional trustee until
the next general election of regional trustees of the francophone
education authority.




(7)

If an election of regional trustees is not held as required under this
Part, or if the members of the authority fail to elect the number of
regional trustees that are to be elected, the minister may appoint
persons as regional trustees to fill the unfilled regional trustee
positions until the next general election of regional trustees under
this section.






Oath of office




166.19

(1)


A person appointed or elected as a regional trustee of a francophone
education authority must make a prescribed oath of office, by oath or
solemn affirmation, within the following applicable time limit:




(a)

in the case of a person appointed as a regional trustee under section
166.17 (1), 166.18 (7) or 166.2 (3), within 45 days after the
effective date of the appointment;




(b)

in the case of a person elected by voting in accordance with the
regulations, within 45 days after the declaration of the results
of the election;




(c)

in the case of a person elected by acclamation in accordance with the
regulations, within 50 days after the declaration of the results
of the election.




(2)

Section 50 (2), (3) and (4) applies for the purposes of this Part.




(3)

If a person appointed or elected as a regional trustee of a
francophone education authority does not make the oath required by
subsection (1) within the time limit set by that subsection, the
office to which that person was appointed or elected is deemed to be
vacant and the person is disqualified from holding office as a
regional trustee until the next general election of the regional
trustees of the francophone education authority.






Vacancy in office of regional trustee




166.2

(1)


If




(a)

a regional trustee ceases to hold office before the end of the
regional trustee's term of office,




(b)

the office of a regional trustee is declared vacant on the final
determination of an application under section 63 (1), as that section
applies for the purposes of this Part, or




(c)

the office of a regional trustee becomes vacant under any of the
following sections of the

Local Elections Campaign Financing Act

:




(i)

section 64 (2) (a)
[candidate penalties for failure to disclose]
;




(ii)

section 65 (1) (a)
[candidate penalties for false or misleading disclosure]
;




(iii)

section 68.01 (3)

[candidate penalties for exceeding expense limits or amount
available]

,


a by-election must be held in accordance with the regulations to fill
the vacancy in that office.




(2)

If a vacancy occurs after January 1 in the year of a general election
of regional trustees, a francophone education authority may hold the
vacancy open until the next general election as long as at least 3
regional trustees continue to hold office.




(3)

If fewer than 3 regional trustees continue to hold office, the
francophone education authority must hold an election of regional
trustees in accordance with the regulations or notify the minister,
who must appoint persons as regional trustees to fill the vacancies.




(4)

A person elected or appointed under this section holds office for the
remainder of the term of the regional trustee who vacated the office.




(5)

No act or proceeding of the board of regional trustees is invalid
merely because there are in office fewer than the number of regional
trustees required under this Part.




(6)

Sections 51, 53 and 54 apply for the purposes of this Part.




(7)

In applying sections 53 and 54 for the purposes of this Part, a
reference in those provisions to




(a)

section 163 (2) is deemed to be a reference to section 166.37,




(b)

an elector of a school district is deemed to be a reference to a
member of a francophone education authority,




(c)

Part 5 is deemed to be a reference to section 166.23,




(d)

a general school election is deemed to be a reference to a general
election of regional trustees under this Part, and




(e)

section 36 (5) is deemed to be a reference to subsection (3) of this
section.






Powers, functions and duties of board of regional trustees




166.21

(1)


The regional trustees that are elected or appointed under this Part
constitute the board of regional trustees of the francophone education
authority.




(2)

The board of regional trustees of a francophone education authority
may exercise all the powers, functions and duties of the francophone
education authority.




(3)

Unless expressly required to be exercised by bylaw, all powers of the
board of regional trustees may be exercised by bylaw or resolution.




(4)

The board of regional trustees may exercise a power with respect to
the acquisition or disposal of property owned or administered by the
francophone education authority only by bylaw.




(5)

The board of regional trustees may




(a)

establish committees and specify the functions and duties of those
committees, and




(b)

delegate specific and general administrative and management duties to
one or more employees of the francophone education authority.




(6)

Committees of regional trustees or individual regional trustees may
not exercise the rights, duties and powers of the board of regional
trustees.






Repealed




166.211


[Repealed 2015-24-22.]






Meetings of the board of regional trustees




166.22

(1)


After an election of regional trustees under section 166.18, the
secrétaire trésorier for the francophone education authority must
convene a first meeting of the board of regional trustees as soon as
possible and in any event within 30 days from the date that the
new board of regional trustees begins its term of office.




(2)

The board of regional trustees of a francophone education authority
must meet as often as is necessary to transact its business and in any
event not less than once in every 3 months.




(3)

At the first meeting of the board of regional trustees, the regional
trustees must elect from among themselves a president and vice
president.




(4)

A majority of the regional trustees may elect a new president or vice
president at any time.




(5)

A quorum of the board of regional trustees is a majority of the
regional trustees holding office at the time of the meeting of the
board of regional trustees.




(6)

A regional trustee may participate in a meeting of the board of
regional trustees by telephone or other means of communication if all
the participants at the meeting are able to communicate with each
other.




(7)

The board of regional trustees must establish procedures governing the
conduct of its meetings and must permit any person to inspect those
procedures.




(7.1)

Without limiting subsection (7), a board of regional trustees may
establish procedures respecting the provision of advice by a district
parents' advisory council to the board.




(8)

Sections 68 to 72 apply for the purposes of this Part.






Conflict of interest




166.23

(1)


Sections 55 to 62, 63 (1) and (2) and 64 apply for the purposes of
this Part.




(2)

An office declared vacant under section 63 (1), as that section
applies under subsection (1) of this section, must remain vacant if
the decision is appealed, and no election to fill the office may be
held until the final determination of the matter or until the next
general election of regional trustees under this Part, whichever is
earlier.




Division 4 — Francophone Educational Programs





Enrolment in a francophone educational program




166.24

(1)


An eligible child of school age who is resident in a francophone
school district, on application to the francophone education authority
for that district, is entitled to enrol in a francophone educational
program provided by the authority.




(2)

On application to a francophone education authority, an eligible child
of school age who is resident in British Columbia is entitled to enrol
in a francophone educational program provided by the francophone
education authority if the francophone education authority determines
that space and facilities are available for the child at the school in
which the francophone educational program is provided.




(3)

A francophone education authority, on receiving an application, may
enrol an immigrant child of school age who is resident in British
Columbia in a francophone educational program provided by the
authority.




(4)

An application to enrol a child under subsections (1) to (3) must
include a signed statement, in the prescribed form, of one of the
parents of the child unless at least one of the parents of the child
is a member in good standing of the francophone education authority at
the time that the application to enrol is made.




(5)

If a francophone education authority enters into an agreement with a
board by which the board agrees to provide all or any part of a
francophone educational program to a francophone student, that
francophone student is, for all purposes of this Act other than
Part 8 of this Act and Division 7 of this Part, deemed to be
enrolled with the board with respect to that portion of the
francophone educational program provided by the board.




(6)

If a board enters into an agreement with a francophone education
authority by which the authority agrees to provide all or any part of
a francophone educational program to an eligible child or immigrant
child who is resident outside the francophone school district for that
authority and who is enrolled with the board, that child is, for all
purposes of this Act other than Part 8 of this Act and Division 7 of
this Part, deemed to be enrolled with the francophone education
authority with respect to that portion of the francophone educational
program provided by the authority.






Priority of enrolment




166.241

(1)


In this section:



"francophone catchment area child"

means an eligible child




(a)

of school age, and




(b)

resident in the francophone catchment area of the francophone school;



"francophone non-catchment area child"

means an eligible child




(a)

of school age,




(b)

resident in the francophone school district, and




(c)

not resident in the francophone catchment area of the francophone
school;



"francophone non-school district child"

means an eligible child




(a)

of school age,




(b)

resident in British Columbia, and




(c)

not resident in the francophone school district;



"francophone school district child"

means a francophone catchment area child or a francophone
non-catchment area child;



"previous school year"

means the school year previous to the year for which the person is
applying to enrol in a francophone educational program.




(2)

A francophone education authority must enrol all eligible children who
exercise their entitlement to enrol in a francophone educational
program under section 166.24 (1).




(3)

A francophone education authority may refuse to enrol a francophone
non-school district child under section 166.24 (2) if the child is




(a)

a francophone student suspended by a francophone education authority
under section 85 (2) (d), or




(b)

a francophone student to whom a francophone education authority has
refused to offer a francophone educational program under section 85
(3).




(4)

A francophone education authority




(a)

for each school year, must establish a date by which an application to
enrol an eligible child in a francophone educational program must be
received by the francophone education authority for the purposes of
this section,




(b)

in respect of the date referred to in paragraph (a), may establish
different dates for different grades, francophone educational
programs, francophone schools or children defined in subsection (1),
and




(c)

may dispense with the application referred to in paragraph (a) and
establish an alternative procedure to enrol a francophone school
district child who was enrolled in a francophone educational program
in the francophone school district in the previous school year.




(5)

If a francophone education authority establishes an alternative
application procedure under subsection (4) (c), the enrolment of a
francophone school district child remains subject to the priorities
set out in this section.




(6)

If a francophone education authority determines that space and
facilities are available at the francophone school in which the
francophone educational program is made available, an eligible child
whose application was received by the francophone education authority
by the date established under subsection (4) is entitled to enrol in
that educational program in the following descending order of
priority:




(a)

a francophone catchment area child who, in the previous school year,
attended the francophone school at which the francophone educational
program is made available;




(b)

a francophone catchment area child;




(c)

a francophone non-catchment area child;




(d)

a francophone non-school district child.




(6.1)

Despite subsection (6), a francophone education authority may, subject
to subsection (6.2), give priority to




(a)

a francophone catchment area child as if that child were a child
described in subsection (6) (a) if, in the previous school year, the
child attended a francophone school from which the francophone
education authority reassigns francophone students progressing through
their francophone educational program to the francophone school at
which the francophone educational program is made available,




(b)

a francophone non-catchment area child or a francophone non-school
district child as if the child were a child described in subsection
(6) (a) or (b) if the child, in the previous school year,




(i)

attended the francophone school at which the francophone educational
program is made available, or




(ii)

attended a francophone school from which the board reassigns
francophone students progressing through their francophone educational
program to the francophone school at which the francophone educational
program is made available, and




(c)

a sibling of a child described in subsection (6) (a) or paragraph (b)
(i) of this subsection as if the sibling were a child described in
subsection (6) (a) or (b) if the sibling is an eligible child who does
not attend francophone school or attends a different francophone
school at the time the application under subsection (4) is made.




(6.2)

The francophone education authority must establish rules governing the
exercise of its discretion under subsection (6.1) and must make those
rules publicly available.




(7)

If a francophone education authority determines that space and
facilities are available at the francophone school in which the
francophone educational program is made available, a francophone
non-school district child referred to in subsection (6) is entitled to
enrol in a francophone educational program in priority to a
francophone school district child whose application was received by
the francophone education authority after the date established under
subsection (4).




(8)

A francophone education authority must establish rules for determining
priority between 2 or more persons having the same priority under this
section.




(9)

For the purposes of this section, an eligible child's residency is
determined as of the date the application to enrol the child is
submitted to the francophone education authority.






Provision of francophone educational programs




166.25

(1)


Subject to the other provisions of this Act and the regulations and to
any orders of the minister under this Act, a francophone education
authority must make a francophone educational program available to all
persons who enrol with the authority under section 166.24.




(2)

The francophone educational program to be provided under subsection
(1) may be provided




(a)

in the francophone school district, or




(b)

with the consent of a parent of the person referred to in subsection
(1), in another francophone school district or in a school district.




(3)

A francophone education authority may provide the francophone
educational program referred to in subsection (1) in one or more of
the following ways:




(a)

all or any part of the francophone educational program is provided
directly by the francophone education authority;




(b)

with the agreement of another francophone education authority and with
any consent required under subsection (2) (b), all or any part of the
francophone educational program is provided by that other francophone
education authority;




(c)

with the agreement of a board of a school district and with any
consent required under subsection (2) (b), all or any part of the
francophone educational program is provided by that board.




(4)

Subject to section 166.241, a francophone education authority may
assign and reassign to specific francophone schools or to specific
francophone educational programs the children enrolled in a
francophone educational program provided by it.




(5)

A francophone education authority may recognize, as part of a
francophone educational program provided by it, an educational
activity that is not provided by the francophone education authority.




(6)

Subject to the regulations, a francophone education authority




(a)

is responsible for evaluating all of the francophone educational
programs and services that it provides, including services provided on
its behalf, and




(b)

must have francophone students assessed and evaluated by a certificate
holder.




(7)

A francophone education authority may, in accordance with any terms
and conditions specified by the authority, permit a person who is
older than school age but who is the child of an eligible parent or
immigrant parent




(a)

to attend a francophone educational program provided by the authority,
or




(b)

to enrol and receive instruction in a francophone educational program
sufficient to meet the general requirements for graduation.




(8)

The only educational programs that a francophone education authority
may provide are francophone educational programs.




(9)

A francophone education authority must not provide a francophone
educational program to any person other than




(a)

a person who is enrolled with the francophone education authority
under section 166.24, or




(b)

a person permitted to attend the program under subsection (7).




(10)

A board must not provide a francophone educational program to a
student resident in a francophone school district other than a student
who is deemed to be enrolled with the board under section 166.24 (5).






Francophone catchment areas




166.251

(1)


A francophone education authority must establish, for each francophone
school in its francophone school district, a francophone catchment
area consisting of a geographical area around the francophone school
that includes all or part of the francophone school district.




(2)

A francophone education authority may amend the francophone catchment
area established for a francophone school under subsection (1).






Rights and duties of enrolled children and their parents




166.26


Sections 4, 6 to 9, 11 and 11.1 to 11.6 apply for the purposes of this
Part.




Division 5 — Personnel





Directeur général and secrétaire trésorier




166.27

(1)


A francophone education authority must appoint an individual as the
directeur général of the authority.




(2)

The directeur général of a francophone education authority, under the
general direction of the board of regional trustees of the authority,




(a)

has general supervision and direction over the educational staff
employed by the authority,




(b)

is responsible




(i)

to the francophone education authority, for improvement of student
achievement in the francophone school district,




(ii)

for the general organization, administration, supervision and
evaluation of all francophone educational programs provided by the
authority, and




(iii)

for the operation of francophone schools in the francophone school
district, and




(b.1)

[Repealed 2015-24-23.]




(c)

must perform other duties set out in the regulations.




(2.1)

[Repealed 2015-24-23.]




(3)

A francophone education authority must




(a)

appoint an individual as the secrétaire trésorier of the authority,
and




(b)

arrange for the bonding of the secrétaire trésorier in an amount the
authority considers adequate.




(3.1)

The secrétaire trésorier of a francophone education authority is its
corporate financial officer and must perform those duties set out in
the regulations.




(4)

A francophone education authority may appoint one or more assistants




(a)

to the directeur général to perform those duties assigned by the
directeur général, or




(b)

to the secrétaire trésorier to perform those duties assigned by the
secrétaire trésorier.




(5)

A francophone education authority must promptly notify the minister of
the appointment or termination of appointment of the directeur général
or the secrétaire trésorier of the authority.






Francophone school personnel




166.28

(1)


Sections 15 to 21 and 25 to 29 apply for the purposes of this Part.




(2)

A francophone education authority must, for the first school year in
which it intends to employ persons as francophone teachers to provide
a francophone educational program to francophone students, attempt, on
terms and conditions the board of regional trustees considers
appropriate, to fill any available teaching positions with individuals
who




(a)

are teachers employed by a board of education,




(b)

are or were, in the immediately preceding school year, employed by a
board of education to teach a francophone educational program in the
francophone school district over which the authority is responsible,
and




(c)

are, in the opinion of the board of regional trustees, qualified and
suitable for the available positions.




Division 6 — School Property





Acquisition and disposal of land and improvements




166.29

(1)


Section 96 (1), (2) (a) and (b) and (3) and sections 97 to 100.1 apply
for the purposes of this Part.




(2)

A francophone education authority and a board may, with the prior
approval of the minister, enter into an agreement for the transfer of
assets that are used by one of the parties but that are vested in the
other party.




(3)

A francophone education authority and the board of a school district
located in the francophone school district may, with the prior
approval of the minister, enter into an agreement for the purposes of




(a)

the construction, maintenance, operation and use of facilities to be
used jointly by the authority and the board, or




(b)

contributing to the cost of the construction, maintenance or operation
of the facilities referred to in paragraph (a).






Housing accommodation




166.3


Sections 102 to 105 apply for the purposes of this Part.




Division 7 — Finance





Establishment of budgets for francophone education authorities




166.31


Sections 110, 111 (1) to (3) and 113 apply for the purposes of this
Part.






Grants




166.32


Sections 114 to 117, except section 116, apply for the purposes of
this Part.






Taxation of francophone school property




166.33

(1)


Section 129, other than subsection (2) (e.1), applies for
the purposes of this Part.




(2)

In addition to the exemptions granted under section 129 (2), as that
section applies under subsection (1) of this section, property that is
leased by a francophone education authority to a board and used in
whole or in part for a school, including any purpose ancillary to the
operation of the school, is exempt from taxation under section 129.






Short term borrowing and first charges




166.34


Sections 139 and 140 apply for the purposes of this Part.






Capital plans and money bylaws




166.35


Sections 141 to 146, other than section 142 (2), apply for the
purposes of this Part.






Debentures




166.36

(1)


Sections 147 to 153, other than section 151, apply for the
purposes of this Part.




(2)

When debentures have been issued by a francophone education authority
under a bylaw that has not been quashed by a court and the interest on
them that has fallen due has been paid for the period of one year by
the authority, the bylaw and the debentures issued under it, or so
much of them as may be unpaid, are valid and binding on the authority
and on all parties concerned.






Accounts and audits




166.37


Sections 156 to 165 apply for the purposes of this Part.






Member may object




166.38

(1)


A member of a francophone education authority may deliver to the
auditor a written objection respecting any item of account or other
matter relating to an audit so long as the objection is delivered
within 3 months after the publication of the auditor's final
report.




(2)

On receipt of an objection under subsection (1), the auditor must
notify the member and the francophone education authority of a time
and place for dealing with the objection.






Right of action preserved




166.39


This Act must not be construed to prevent a member of a francophone
education authority, or a group of members of that authority, from
exercising any right to take action for recovery on behalf of the
authority.




Division 8 — General





Additional powers and duties of a francophone education authority




166.4

(1)


Sections 73, 74, 74.01, 76 to 85, other than sections 79.1 and 85 (1),
and section 87 apply for the purposes of this Part.




(2)

Sections 85.1 to 86, other than section 86 (1.1), apply for the
purposes of this Part.




(2.1)

Divisions 2.01 and 2.1 of Part 6 apply
for the purposes of this Part.




(3)

A francophone education authority may, subject to this Act, the
regulations and the orders of the minister, enter into an agreement
with a board to provide all or part of a francophone educational
program and health and support services, including busing and
educational resources, to one or more students enrolled with the
board.




(4)

Subject to subsection (5) and the orders of the minister, a
francophone education authority may deliver all or part of a
francophone educational program through online learning.




(5)

A francophone education authority may deliver a francophone
educational program, or part of a francophone educational program,
through online learning to the following persons only if the
francophone education authority has approval to provide the
francophone educational program under an agreement with the minister:




(a)

a student, as defined in the

Independent School Act

;




(b)

a francophone student who is enrolled in a francophone educational
program provided by another francophone education authority, or a
student;




(c)

a child who is registered under section 13 with a school, another
francophone school or an independent school.






Health and other support services




166.41


Sections 87.1, 88 (1) and 90 to 92, other than 92 (5) and
(6), apply for the purposes of this Part.






Limitation of actions against francophone education authority




166.42

(1)


A reference to a regional trustee, officer or employee in
section 166.43, or in section 94, as that section applies
under subsection (2) of this section, includes a former regional
trustee, officer or employee.




(2)

Section 94 applies for the purposes of this Part.






Indemnification against proceedings




166.43

(1)


The board of regional trustees of a francophone education authority
may, by bylaw, provide that the francophone education authority




(a)

will indemnify a regional trustee, officer or employee of the
francophone education authority

or a member of an Indigenous education council





(i)

against a claim for damages against that regional trustee, officer or
employee arising out of the performance of

the regional trustee's, officer's, employee's or member's

duties, or




(ii)

if an inquiry under the

Public Inquiry Act

or other proceeding involves the administration and conduct of the
business of the francophone education authority, and




(b)

may pay legal costs incurred in proceedings arising out of the claim
or inquiry or other proceeding.




(2)

The board of regional trustees of a francophone education authority
may, by an affirmative vote of not less than 2/3 of all of the
regional trustees of the authority, cause the francophone education
authority to pay




(a)

any sum required to indemnify a regional trustee, officer or employee
of the francophone education authority

or a member of an Indigenous education council

if a prosecution arises out of the performance of

the regional trustee's, officer's, employee's or member's

duties, and




(b)

costs necessarily incurred.




(3)

Despite subsection (2), a francophone education authority must not pay
a fine imposed on a regional trustee, officer or employee as a result
of

the regional trustee's, officer's, employee's or member's

conviction.




(4)

A francophone education authority must not seek indemnity against a
regional trustee, officer or employee of the francophone education
authority

or a member of an Indigenous education council

in respect of any action of

the regional trustee, officer, employee or member

that results in a claim for damages against the francophone education
authority, but the francophone education authority may seek indemnity





(
a
)



against a regional trustee, officer, employee or member if the claim
for damages arises out of the gross negligence of the regional
trustee, officer, employee or member, or





(b)

against an officer or employee if, in relation to the action that gave
rise to the claim for damages, the officer or employee wilfully acted
contrary to




(i)

the terms of the officer's or employee's employment, or




(ii)

an order of a superior.






Appointment of special advisor or special advisory committee to
francophone school district




166.431

(1)


The minister, by order, may appoint a special advisor or a special
advisory committee to one or more francophone school districts, for a
term determined by the minister,




(a)

to review the progress of the francophone education authority or
francophone education authorities in respect of the improvement of
student performance or to inspect and evaluate any other matters as
directed by the minister,




(b)

to assist the francophone education authority or francophone education
authorities in the conduct of the affairs of the francophone school
district or francophone school districts in respect of any
educational, financial or community matters, or




(c)

if the minister considers that




(i)

a directeur général of a francophone education authority has failed to
report to the commissioner a matter that, in the opinion of the
minister, should have been reported under section 16,




(ii)

a francophone education authority has failed to notify a directeur
général of a francophone education authority of a matter that, in the
opinion of the minister, should have been the subject of a notice
under section 16 (3),




(iii)

a francophone education authority has failed to report to the
commissioner a matter that, in the opinion of the minister, should
have been reported under section 16.1, or




(iv)

a francophone education authority has failed to submit to the director
of certification information as required under section 80
[list of employers and First Nations school employers]
of the

Teachers Act

,


to investigate the circumstances of the failure.




(2)

The special advisor or special advisory committee must




(a)

submit a report to the minister in respect of anything resulting from
carrying out the duties under subsection (1), and




(b)

provide to the commissioner a copy of the report if the report relates
to a matter described in subsection (1) (c).




(3)

At the request of the minister, a report under subsection (2) must
include recommendations about student performance and the conduct of
the francophone education authority or francophone education
authorities in respect of any educational, financial or community
matters.




(4)

With the approval of the minister, a special advisor and special
advisory committee may




(a)

appoint employees necessary for performing the duties of the special
advisor or special advisory committee,




(b)

engage and retain specialists and consultants to carry out the duties
of the special advisor or special advisory committee, as required, and




(c)

determine the remuneration of persons appointed or retained under
paragraph (a) or (b) of this subsection.




(5)

The minister, by order, may require the francophone education
authority or francophone education authorities to do one or more of
the following:




(a)

pay the remuneration of the special advisor or members of the special
advisory committee appointed under subsection (1) and any person
appointed or retained under subsection (4) (a) or (b), at the rate
determined by the minister;




(b)

pay the expenses of the special advisor or members of the special
advisory committee;




(c)

implement one or more recommendations set out in a report under
subsection (2) within the time period specified by the minister.




(6)

The minister may provide a direction to the special advisor, the
special advisory committee or a francophone education authority
respecting the duties of the special advisor or special advisory
committee.






Powers of special advisor and special advisory committee to
francophone school district




166.432


A special advisor or a member of a special advisory committee
appointed under section 166.431 may




(a)

attend any meeting of the francophone education authority,




(b)

enter a school building or any other building used in conjunction with
the school or offices of the francophone education authority, or any
part of them, for the purposes of performing the special advisor's or
member's duties, and




(c)

inspect any record of the francophone education authority.






Responsibility of francophone education authority




166.433


A francophone education authority and its employees must assist a
special advisor or special advisory committee in the carrying out of
the duties of the special advisor or special advisory committee.






Appointment of official trustee




166.44

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may appoint an official trustee to
conduct the affairs of a francophone education authority if the
Lieutenant Governor in Council is of the opinion that




(a)

there has been a default in a payment on the due date of either
interest or principal of a debenture guaranteed under this Part or a
failure to comply to the satisfaction of the minister with a condition
governing the guarantee,




(b)

the authority is in serious financial jeopardy,




(c)

there is substantial non-compliance with this Act or the regulations
or any rules or orders made under this Act,




(c.1)

[Repealed 2012-3-20.]




(d)

there is substantial non-performance of the duties of the authority,
or




(e)

there is a risk to student achievement in the district and it is in
the public interest to do so.




(2)

On the appointment of an official trustee to conduct the affairs of a
francophone education authority, the regional trustees of the
authority cease to hold office.




(3)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may remove an official trustee and




(a)

order that elections of regional trustees be held for the authority in
accordance with the regulations made under section 166.18, or




(b)

appoint regional trustees to hold office for the term set by the
Lieutenant Governor in Council.






Powers of official trustee




166.45

(1)


An official trustee appointed under section 166.44




(a)

has the powers and duties conferred by this Act on a francophone
education authority, and




(b)

must be remunerated out of the funds of the francophone education
authority in respect of which the official trustee is appointed or
otherwise as the Lieutenant Governor in Council determines.




(2)

In the exercise of a power or performance of a duty conferred under
this Act on a francophone education authority, an official trustee,
with the approval of the minister, may deviate in matters of procedure
and in the form of any notice or statement under this Act as the
official trustee considers necessary for the more effective exercise
of that power or duty.




(3)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations to adapt this
Act to the conduct of the affairs of francophone education authorities
to which official trustees are appointed.






School calendars




166.451


Section 168.02 applies for the purposes of this Part.






Reimbursement of expenses for designated educational activities




166.452


Section 168.1 applies for the purposes of this Part.






Annual practice fee




166.453


Section 168.2 applies for the purposes of this Part.






Maintenance of order




166.46

(1)


Section 177 (1), (2) and (4) applies for the purposes of this Part.




(2)

A person who contravenes section 177 (1) or (2), as that section
applies under subsection (1), commits an offence.






Administrative directives




166.47


Sections 168.03 and 168.04 apply for the purposes of this Part.




Contents
|


Part 1
|


Part 2
|


Part 3
|


Part 4
|


Part 5
|


Part 6
|


Part 6.1
|


Part 7
|


Part 8
|

Part 8.1 |

Part 9
|


Schedule




