





View Complete Statute



Election Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 106



Part 13 — General





Declarations required under this Act




268

(1)


Where a solemn declaration is required under this Act, the declaration
must be




(a)

made on oath or by solemn affirmation,




(b)

made before a commissioner for taking affidavits for British Columbia
or an individual authorized under subsection (2) to take the oath or
solemn affirmation, and




(c)

signed by the individual making the oath or solemn affirmation and by
the individual before whom it is made.




(2)

An election official or voter registration official may take solemn
declarations where these are required under this Act in relation to
proceedings for which the individual is responsible.




(3)

If applicable, a declaration or a signed statement required under this
Act must be made in the form prescribed by regulation.






Exceptional assistance for signature or translation




269

(1)


The provisions of this section are exceptions for allowing individuals
to exercise their rights and fulfill their obligations under this Act
in circumstances where they would otherwise be unable to do so.




(2)

If an individual is required by this Act to sign a document and is
unable to do so, the election or voter registration official
responsible may either sign on behalf of the individual or have the
individual make the individual's mark and witness that mark.




(3)

If an individual requires the assistance of a translator, the election
official or voter registration official responsible must permit the
individual to be assisted by a translator.




(4)

Before acting as translator under subsection (3), an individual must
make a solemn declaration that the individual is able to make the
translation and will do so to the best of the individual's abilities.




(5)

For certainty, an individual may act as translator for more than one
other individual.




(6)

The obligation to provide a translator rests with the individual who
is required to make the solemn declaration or provide the information
and, if no translator is available to act, that individual must be
considered to have refused to make the solemn declaration or provide
the information.






Public notice requirements




270

(1)


Where this Act requires notice to be given in accordance with this
section,




(a)

the notice must be published on the internet and in one or more
newspapers circulating in the affected electoral district, and




(b)

information respecting the notice must be published through other
media circulating in the affected electoral district, including by
television and radio,


such that publication is made throughout the electoral district, if
this is possible.




(2)

If publication under subsection (1) is not possible, the notice must
be given to the public by alternative means in accordance with the
directions of the chief electoral officer.




(3)

Notices to which this section applies may be combined as long as the
requirements of all applicable sections are met.






Publication of adjusted amounts and additional amounts




270.01

(1)


The chief electoral officer must




(a)

publish on an Elections BC authorized internet site the adjusted
amounts established under sections 186.01, 204 and 235.05 and the
annual allowance calculated under section 215.02 (2),




(b)

have notice of the adjusted amounts and the annual allowance under
those sections published in the Gazette, and




(c)

give notice of the adjusted amounts established under sections 186.01
and 204 to the candidates in the election, the registered political
parties represented by those candidates and the registered
constituency associations for the electoral district.




(1.1)

The chief electoral officer must publish the adjusted amounts
established under sections 204 and 235.1 (3) as soon as
practicable after an election is called.




(2)

For the purpose of making an adjustment under section 186.01, 204,
215.02 or 235.05, the chief electoral officer has the discretion to
determine whether to use a consumer price index prepared by the
director under the

Statistics Act

or published by Statistics Canada under the

Statistics Act

(Canada) and to determine which consumer price index is applicable for
a particular time.






Filing documents with chief electoral officer




271


Where this Act requires or authorizes a document or other record to be
filed with the chief electoral officer, this may be done by delivering
the record




(a)

to the office of the chief electoral officer during its regular office
hours, or




(b)

to the chief electoral officer or an agent of the chief electoral
officer at another place and time authorized by the chief electoral
officer.






Adjournment of election proceedings




272

(1)


Election proceedings may be adjourned by the election official
responsible in accordance with this section if that official considers
that the health or safety of individuals is at risk, or that the
integrity of the proceedings is at risk.




(2)

Election proceedings may be adjourned




(a)

temporarily to another time on the same day or another time on the
same day at another place specified by the election official
responsible, or




(b)

to a day, time and place to be set by the district electoral officer.




(3)

The election official responsible must notify the district electoral
officer as soon as possible of any adjournment and must follow any
directions the district electoral officer considers appropriate in the
circumstances.




(4)

While proceedings are adjourned, the election official responsible
must make all reasonable efforts to ensure that the election materials
are secured and that the integrity of the election is not compromised.




(5)

The election official responsible must give notice to individuals
affected by an adjournment as directed by the district electoral
officer or, in the absence of direction, in any manner the official
considers appropriate.




(6)

Proceedings that are recommenced after an adjournment must continue
for such a period that the total time for the proceedings is the same
regardless of the adjournment.






Keeping peace and order at election proceedings




273

(1)


An election official must maintain peace and order so far as
reasonably possible at the election proceedings for which the election
official is responsible.




(2)

For the purposes of this section, from the time an election is called
until the declaration of the official results of the election under
section 137, the district electoral officer, the deputy district
electoral officer and all supervising election officials designated or
assigned under section 88 are peace officers.




(3)

For the purposes of this section, the election official responsible
may do one or more of the following:




(a)

restrict or regulate the number of individuals admitted at any time to
the place where the proceedings are being conducted;




(b)

order an individual to leave the place where the proceedings are being
conducted if, in the opinion of the election official, the individual




(i)

is present at a place when not permitted to be present under this Act,




(ii)

is disturbing the peace and order of the proceedings,




(iii)

is interfering with the conduct of the proceedings, or




(iv)

is contravening any provision of this Act or a regulation under this
Act;




(c)

require proof of identification from an individual who may be ordered
to leave under paragraph (b);




(d)

order the removal of an individual ordered to leave under paragraph
(b) if the individual does not comply;




(e)

require the assistance of peace officers or of individuals present at
the place where the proceedings are being conducted.




(4)

An individual ordered to leave under subsection (3) (b) must leave the
place and the immediate vicinity of the place at which the election
proceedings are being conducted and must not return while these
election proceedings are being conducted unless permitted to do so by
the election official responsible.




(5)

The authority under subsection (3) must not be used to prevent a voter
otherwise entitled to vote at the place from exercising the right to
vote.






When has individual voted and proof that individual has voted




274

(1)


A voter has voted when




(a)

the voter has deposited a ballot in a ballot box, or




(b)

if the voter is voting using a mail-in voting package, the outer
envelope included in the mail-in voting package provided to the voter
is deposited




(i)

in the mail to be delivered to the address of the office printed on
the outer envelope, or




(ii)

at an authorized drop-off location.




(2)

The following is proof for the purposes of this Act that an individual
has voted:




(a)

the record of an election official that the individual has been
provided with a ballot;




(b)

the receipt of an envelope as required by
section 106 (1) (g) before the time set by
section 75 (3) for the close of final voting.




(3)

As an exception to subsection (2), for voting under section 106,
the record of late receipt after the time set by
section 75 (3) in the voting book under section 107 is
proof for the purposes of this Act that the individual to whom the
mail-in voting package was provided has voted.






Access to and use of information in records




275

(1)


If a record is available for public inspection in the office of an
election official or voter registration official, subject to this
section a member of the public may obtain a copy of the record on
payment of the reasonable costs of reproduction.




(2)

If a record available for public inspection as referred to in
subsection (1) contains information that is and is identified as the
residential address or telephone number of a specific individual, on
request of that individual, the election official or voter
registration official must obscure the information in the documents
available for public inspection and, for these purposes, may make a
copy rather than the original available for public inspection.




(3)

Where this Act requires or authorizes the disclosure, public
inspection or other use of or access to records containing personal
information, the personal information may only be used as follows:




(a)

for the purposes of this Act;




(b)

to enable members of the Legislative Assembly to communicate with
voters;




(c)

for other provincial, municipal or federal electoral purposes, subject
to any restrictions or requirements established by regulation;




(d)

to identify individuals to be called to serve as jurors under the

Jury Act

;




(e)

for purposes authorized by the

Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act

;




(f)

for other purposes specified by regulation, subject to any
restrictions or requirements that may be established by regulation.




(3.1)

Despite any other provision of this Act or any other Act, information
obtained by the chief electoral officer as National Register of
Electors information may be used only for purposes permitted by the

Canada Elections Act

.




(3.2)

Despite subsection (3) of this section, personal information contained
in the lists referred to in sections 51 (2) (b) and 51.01 may only be
used for the purposes of this Act.




(3.3)

For certainty, personal information contained in a record referred to
in this section must not be used for commercial purposes.




(4)

An election official or voter registration official may require an
individual who wishes to inspect or obtain a copy of a record referred
to in this section to




(a)

satisfy the official that any purpose for which personal information
is to be used is permitted by this section, and




(b)

provide a signed statement that the individual, and any individual or
organization on whose behalf the first individual is inspecting or
obtaining the record, will not use personal information included in
the record except for a purpose permitted under this Act.




(4.1)

Subject to subsection (4.2) of this section,




(a)

in the case of a registered political party that wishes to obtain a
list referred to in section 51 (2) (a) or (b), the director, principal
officer or principal member of the registered political party on whose
behalf the list is requested must file with the chief electoral
officer a privacy policy acceptable to the chief electoral officer,




(b)

in the case of a candidate, candidate representative or registered
political party that wishes to obtain information under section 51.01,
the candidate, the official agent of the candidate or the registered
political party on whose behalf the information is requested must file
with the chief electoral officer a privacy policy acceptable to the
chief electoral officer, and




(c)

in all other cases, an individual who wishes to obtain a copy of a
record referred to in this section must file with the chief electoral
officer a privacy policy acceptable to the chief electoral officer.




(4.2)

If a privacy policy has been previously filed under subsection (4.1),
the chief electoral officer may waive a requirement under that
subsection.




(4.3)

In this section:



"personal information"

means personal information within the meaning of the

Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act

;



"privacy policy"

means a policy that sets out reasonable security arrangements against
such risks as unauthorized access, collection, use, disclosure or
disposal in respect of personal information contained in a record
referred to in this section.




(5)

Before the end of each retention period under section 149, the chief
electoral officer must notify the minister responsible for the

Information Management Act

of the date the retention period expires.




(6)

The minister responsible for the

Information Management Act

may require that records under the control of the chief electoral
officer, other than records required by this Act to be destroyed, be
archived




(a)

in the digital archives established by the

Information Management Act

, or




(b)

in the museum archives of government established by the

Museum Act

.




(6.1)

[Repealed 2015-27-35.]




(7)

To the extent of any inconsistency or conflict with the

Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act

, this Act applies despite that Act.






Enforcement of penalties




276

(1)


The chief electoral officer




(a)

must conduct periodic investigations of the financial affairs of
registered political parties, registered constituency associations,
candidates, leadership contestants and registered third party sponsors
for the purpose of ensuring compliance with this Act and the
regulations under this Act,




(b)

may conduct audits of the accounts of individuals and organizations
referred to in paragraph (a), and




(c)

may conduct investigations of any matter that might constitute a
contravention of this Act or a regulation under this Act.




(2)

For the purposes of this section, the chief electoral officer or a
representative of the chief electoral officer may inspect and make
copies of the records of




(a)

a registered political party or a political party that was registered
at any time during the past 5 years,




(b)

a registered constituency association or a constituency association
that was registered at any time during the past 5 years,




(c)

an individual who is or was a candidate or leadership contestant at
any time during the past 5 years, or




(d)

an individual or organization that was required to file an election
advertising disclosure report at any time during the past
5 years.




(3)

In relation to the authority under subsection (2), the chief electoral
officer or a representative of the chief electoral officer may enter
at any reasonable time the premises where the records of the
individual or organization are kept.




(4)

An individual or organization occupying premises referred to in
subsection (3) must




(a)

produce and permit copies or extracts to be made of all records
required by the chief electoral officer or the representative, and




(b)

provide all information that the chief electoral officer or
representative may reasonably require.




(5)

The authority under subsection (3) must not be used to enter a
dwelling house except with the consent of the occupant or the
authority of a warrant under subsection (6).




(6)

On being satisfied on evidence on oath or affirmation that there are
reasonable and probable grounds to believe that there are in a place
records or other things relevant to matters referred to in this
section, a justice may issue an order authorizing the chief electoral
officer, a representative of the chief electoral officer or a peace
officer to enter the place and search for and seize any records or
other things relevant to the matter in accordance with the warrant.






Notice to advertiser to produce information




276.01

(1)


In this section,
"advertiser"
means the following:




(a)

an individual or organization that has, during the past 5 years,
transmitted election advertising to the public by any means;




(b)

an individual or organization that has, during the past 5 years,
arranged for another individual or organization to transmit election
advertising to the public by any means;




(c)

an individual or organization in a class of individuals or
organizations prescribed by regulation.




(2)

The chief electoral officer may give a written notice to an advertiser
to produce information described in subsection (3), as specified in
the notice, if both of the following apply:




(a)

the chief electoral officer has reason to believe that section 229,
230, 231, 231.01, 233, 235.1 or 239 has been contravened;




(b)

the information is reasonably required by the chief electoral officer
to carry out the chief electoral officer's duties under section
12 (1) (d).




(3)

A notice under subsection (2) may require that the advertiser provide
to the chief electoral officer the following information in relation
to election advertising that has been transmitted to the public:




(a)

if known by the advertiser, the name of the individual or organization
that sponsored the election advertising;




(b)

the name of the individual or organization with which the advertiser
agreed to




(i)

transmit the election advertising, or




(ii)

arrange for another individual or organization to transmit the
election advertising;




(c)

the date the election advertising was ordered or requested;




(d)

if there were payments under the agreement referred to in paragraph
(b), the amounts and dates of the payments;




(e)

the dates on which the election advertising was transmitted;




(f)

the actual or intended geographic distribution or geographic
availability of the election advertising;




(g)

any other information prescribed by regulation.




(4)

Subject to subsection (5), an advertiser who has custody or control of
information requested by a notice under this section must disclose the
information to the chief electoral officer




(a)

within 24 hours after receiving the notice if the notice is given
during a campaign period, and




(b)

within 7 days after receiving the notice if the notice is given
outside of a campaign period.




(5)

The chief electoral officer may extend the time period in subsection
(4) if an advertiser who receives a notice under this section makes a
written request




(a)

within 24 hours after receiving the notice if the notice is given
during a campaign period, and




(b)

within 7 days after receiving the notice if the notice is given
outside of a campaign period.




(6)

Within 7 days of the chief electoral officer making a determination of
non-compliance with this section by an advertiser, the chief electoral
officer must notify the advertiser of the non-compliance and related
penalty.




(7)

Unless relief is granted by a court on an application under subsection
(8), if the chief electoral officer gives notice under subsection (6),
the advertiser must pay to the chief electoral officer a penalty in
the amount of up to $20 000, as determined by the chief electoral
officer.




(8)

An advertiser who is subject to a monetary penalty under this section
may apply to the Supreme Court in accordance with this section for
relief from the monetary penalty for non-compliance.




(9)

An application under subsection (8) may only be made within 30 days
after the chief electoral officer notifies the advertiser, under
subsection (6), of the non-compliance and related penalty.




(10)

The petition commencing an application must be served on the chief
electoral officer within 7 days after the petition is filed, and the
chief electoral officer is a party to the application.




(11)

On the hearing of an application, the court may do the following:




(a)

grant relief from a penalty if the court considers that, in relation
to the non-compliance, the advertiser has acted in good faith;




(b)

make any order the court considers appropriate to secure compliance
with this section to the extent the court considers reasonable in the
circumstances;




(c)

refuse to grant relief.






Order to produce information or records required by chief electoral
officer




276.02

(1)


On application of the chief electoral officer, the Supreme Court may
make an order requiring a person to disclose to the chief electoral
officer information or records in the custody or control of the person
if the court is satisfied that the information or records are
reasonably required by the chief electoral officer in order to carry
out the chief electoral officer's duties under section
12 (1) (d).




(2)

The chief electoral officer may apply for an order under subsection
(1) before, at the time of or subsequent to the following:




(a)

making a determination that an individual or organization has failed
to comply with a provision of this Act for which a monetary penalty
may be imposed;




(b)

referring a matter to the Criminal Justice Branch of the Ministry of
Attorney General under section 252.




(3)

A court may make an order under this section without notice to any
person.




(4)

Unless the court orders otherwise, an application for an order under
this section must be heard in private.






Additional powers of chief electoral officer to require information




276.03

(1)


For the purposes of administering compliance with this Act and the
regulations, the chief electoral officer has the following powers in
addition to all others provided under this Act:




(a)

to require the following to file a supplementary report under section
212:




(i)

a candidate or the financial agent of a candidate;




(ii)

a registered political party or the financial agent of a registered
political party;




(iii)

a registered constituency association or the financial agent of a
registered constituency association;




(iv)

a leadership contestant or the financial agent of a leadership
contestant;




(v)

a nomination contestant or the financial agent of a nomination
contestant;




(b)

to require a third party sponsor to file a supplementary report under
section 244;




(c)

to require an individual or organization referred to in paragraph (a)
or (b) to provide further information respecting compliance with this
Act and the regulations under this Act.




(2)

Within 7 days of the chief electoral officer making a determination of
non-compliance with subsection (1) by an individual or organization,
the chief electoral officer must notify the individual or organization
of the non-compliance and related penalty.




(3)

Unless relief is granted by a court on an application under subsection
(7), if the chief electoral officer gives notice under subsection (2),
the individual or organization must pay to the chief electoral officer
a penalty in the amount of up to $10 000, as determined by the
chief electoral officer.




(4)

An individual or organization that is subject to a monetary penalty
under subsection (3) may apply to the Supreme Court in accordance with
this section for relief from the monetary penalty for non-compliance.




(5)

An application under subsection (4) may only be made within 30 days
after the chief electoral officer notifies the individual or
organization, under subsection (2), of the non-compliance and related
penalty.




(6)

The petition commencing an application must be served on the chief
electoral officer within 7 days after the petition is filed, and the
chief electoral officer is a party to the application.




(7)

On the hearing of an application, the court may do the following:




(a)

grant relief from a penalty if the court considers that, in relation
to the non-compliance, the individual or organization has acted in
good faith;




(b)

make any order the court considers appropriate to secure compliance
with this section to the extent the court considers reasonable in the
circumstances;




(c)

refuse to grant relief.






Complaints regarding contraventions of this Act




277

(1)


If the chief electoral officer receives a complaint alleging that this
Act or a regulation under this Act has been contravened, the chief
electoral officer must consider whether to investigate the matter.




(2)

The chief electoral officer must refuse to investigate a complaint
that in the view of the chief electoral officer appears to be
frivolous, vexatious or obviously unfounded.




(3)

If a complaint is made in writing and the chief electoral officer
decides not to conduct an investigation, the chief electoral officer
must notify the complainant in writing of the reasons for the
decision.






Enforcement of election expenses penalties




278

(1)


In relation to a penalty under any of the following sections, the
chief electoral officer may issue and file with the Supreme Court a
certificate specifying the name of the individual or organization, as
applicable, and the amount owed under that section by the individual
or organization:




(a)

217 (1) (b);




(b)

218 (1) (b);




(c)

220.01 (2);




(d)

220.02 (2);




(e)

220.03 (2);




(f)

220.04 (2) or (4);




(g)

220.05 (2);




(h)

220.06 (2);




(i)

220.07 (2);




(j)

220.08 (2);




(j.1)

220.081 (2);




(j.2)

231.03 (8);




(j.3)

234.6 (2);




(k)

235.2 (1) (b);




(l)

247;




(m)

250.01 (2);




(n)

250.02 (2);




(o)

250.03 (2);




(p)

250.04 (2);




(q)

250.05 (2);




(r)

250.06 (2);




(s)

250.07 (2);




(s.1)

250.071 (2);




(t)

276.01 (7);




(u)

276.03 (3).




(2)

A certificate filed under subsection (1) has the same effect and is
enforceable in the same manner as a judgment of the Supreme Court in
favour of the government for the recovery of a debt in the amount
specified in the certificate.






Enforcement of Act by court injunction




279

(1)


On application of the chief electoral officer, the Supreme Court may
grant an injunction as follows:




(a)

the court may grant an injunction restraining an individual or
organization from contravening this Act if the court is satisfied that
there are reasonable grounds to believe that the individual or
organization has contravened or is likely to contravene this Act;




(b)

the court may grant an injunction requiring an individual or
organization to comply with this Act if the court is satisfied that
there are reasonable grounds to believe that the individual or
organization has not complied or is likely not to comply with this
Act.




(2)

An order under subsection (1) may be made without notice to others if
it is necessary to do so in order to protect the public interest.




(3)

A contravention of this Act may be restrained under subsection (1)
whether or not a penalty or other remedy has been provided by this
Act.






Emergencies and other extraordinary circumstances




280

(1)


The chief electoral officer may, by specific or general order, make
exceptions to this Act and the regulations under this Act in
accordance with the purposes of this Act if, in the opinion of the
chief electoral officer, this is necessary because of an emergency, a
mistake or extraordinary circumstances in relation to proceedings
under this Act.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the chief electoral officer may make
orders extending a time period or establishing a new date in place of
one set under this Act and giving any other direction the chief
electoral officer considers appropriate in relation to this.




(3)

If an order is made under this section, the report of the chief
electoral officer under section 13 must include a report on the
order and the circumstances under which it was made.






Test of new election procedures in a by-election




281

(1)


The chief electoral officer may test new election procedures in a
by-election, if this is agreed to by the leaders of the registered
political parties entitled to be represented on the Election Advisory
Committee.




(2)

The agreement must describe the election procedures to be used, refer
to the provisions of this Act that those election procedures replace
and be signed by each of the leaders.




(3)

To the extent of any conflict between an agreement under this section
and this Act or a regulation under this Act, the agreement prevails
and has the force of law.






Plebiscites on matters of public concern




282

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may direct the chief electoral
officer to conduct a plebiscite to determine the opinion of the voters
in all or part of British Columbia on a matter of public concern
specified by the Lieutenant Governor in Council.




(2)

For the purposes of a plebiscite under subsection (1), the Lieutenant
Governor in Council may make regulations governing the procedure for
the plebiscite.




(3)

To the extent that the procedure for a plebiscite is not established
under subsection (2), the plebiscite is to be conducted in accordance
with the regulations of the chief electoral officer.






Regulations of the chief electoral officer




283

(1)


Subject to section 16 (2) (e), the chief electoral officer may make
regulations as follows:




(a)

establishing procedures to be followed by the Election Advisory
Committee;




(b)

prescribing forms for the purposes of this Act and information that
may be included or requested on them;




(b.01)

for the purposes of the definition of "ballot printer" in section 1,
prescribing any other electronic system;




(b.02)

for the purposes of the definition of "vote-counting equipment" in
section 1, prescribing any other equipment;




(b.1)

for the purposes of section 1 (2) (a) (ii) and (b) (ii), prescribing
anything else;




(c)

prescribing information that must be included in an application for
registration as a voter, an application for updating voter information
or an application for inclusion in the list of future voters;




(d)

[Repealed 2002-60-12.]




(e)

prescribing identifying information that may be used for the purposes
of section 35 (1) (d) in an application for registration as a voter;




(f)

specifying a form or other document under another enactment for the
purposes of section 38;




(g)

respecting types of documents that are authorized for the purpose of
section 41 (3);




(g.1)

prescribing information for the purposes of section
51.02 (3) (c) and (e);




(g.2)

prescribing information that must be included under section 59.01 in a
notice respecting a nomination contest;




(h)

establishing classes of special voting opportunities and restrictions
on who may vote at each for the purposes of section 77 (2);




(h.1)

for the purposes of the definition of "voting administration tools" in
section 79.01, prescribing other types of tools to assist in the
conduct of voting proceedings;




(h.2)

for the purposes of section 79.01 (3) (a), prescribing circumstances
in which or locations at which one or more types of voting
administration tools are to be used;




(h.3)

for the purposes of section 79.05, prescribing an action by an
election official in relation to the vote-counting equipment;




(h.4)

establishing classes of alternative voting options and restrictions on
who may vote at each for the purposes of section 102 (2);




(h.5)

prescribing verification requirements for the purposes of
section 106 (1) (e);




(i)

prescribing information that must be included




(i)

under section 155 (3) (o) in an application for registration of a
political party,




(ii)

under section 157 (3) (m) in an application for registration of a
constituency association, or




(iii)

in a class of report under Part 9 or 10;




(j)

prescribing classes by which income, expenditures, election expenses
and contestant expenses must be reported in a report under Part 9
or 10;




(j.1)

respecting a method of accounting to be used for the purposes of
preparing reports under Part 10;




(j.2)

prescribing the manner in which disclosure reports under Part 11 must
be filed;




(k)

specifying expenses that are to be included as personal election
expenses of a candidate under section 183 (4) (f);




(l)

specifying expenses that are to be included as personal contestant
expenses of a nomination or leadership contestant under section 184
(4) (f);




(m)

specifying election expenses for the purposes of section 203 (1) (i)
that are not to be included when determining whether an organization
or individual has complied with an election expenses limit;




(m.01)

prescribing election expenses or classes of election expenses for the
purposes of section 215.04 (2) (d) that must not be reimbursed;




(m.1)

exempting from the requirements of section 231 (1) classes of election
advertising that may reasonably be considered clothing, a novelty item
or an item intended for personal use;




(m.2)

prescribing additional content and format standards for the purposes
of section 231 (1);




(m.3)

establishing requirements in respect of any information referred to in
section 231 (1) (a) to (d) and any information
that is required under a regulation made for the purposes of
section 231 (1) (e);




(m.4)

prescribing other matters and things for the purposes of
section 234.4 (2) (c);




(m.5)

prescribing individuals and classes of individuals for the purposes of
section 239 (4) (h);




(m.6)

prescribing matters for the purposes of
section 239 (5) (d);




(n)

prescribing information that must be included in




(i)

an application under section 240, or




(ii)

an election advertising disclosure report under section 244;




(o)

prescribing classes of advertising for the purposes of section 245 (1)
(a);




(p)

for the purposes of section 275,




(i)

establishing restrictions on provincial, municipal or federal
electoral purposes for which information under this Act may be used
under that section and, in relation to this, requirements for access
to and use of the information, and




(ii)

specifying purposes for which information under this Act may be used
under that section and, in relation to this, requirements for access
to and use of the information;




(p.1)

for the purposes of the definition of "advertiser" in section 276.01
(1), prescribing a class of individuals or organizations;




(p.2)

for the purposes of section 276.01 (3) (g), prescribing any other
information;




(q)

establishing procedures for conducting a plebiscite under
section 282;




(r)

establishing higher amounts than those specified in this Act, where
these higher amounts are contemplated by this Act;




(s)

for any other purpose for which regulations are contemplated by this
Act.




(2)

Subject to section 16 (2), for the purposes of section 215.02, the
chief electoral officer may make regulations respecting annual
allowances to a merged political party, including defining what a
merged political party is and establishing the amount of the annual
allowance and the payment schedule.




(3)

[Repealed RS1996-106-283 (3).]




(4)

The chief electoral officer must make regulations prescribing the form
of ordinary ballots and the form of write-in ballots.




(5)

In making a regulation under subsection (4), the chief electoral
officer may prescribe different forms of write-in ballots to be
included in mail-in voting packages.




Contents
|


Part 1
|


Part 2
|


Part 3
|


Part 4
|


Part 5
|


Part 6
|


Part 7
|


Part 8
|


Part 9
|


Part 10
|



Part 10.1

|


Part 11
|


Part 12
|

Part 13 |

Schedule




