





View Complete Statute



Vancouver Charter
[SBC 1953] CHAPTER 55



Part XXV â€” Quashing By-laws and Resolutions





Illegal by-law or resolution may be quashed




524.


On the application of an elector or a person interested in the by-law
or resolution, a Judge may declare the by-law or resolution void in
whole or in part for illegality.

1993-54-77.





Notice and security




525.


Notice of the application shall be served on the city at least ten
days before the day of the hearing, and before the hearing the
applicant shall furnish security for the city's costs in such amount
and in such manner as the Judge shall think proper. After the
determination of the proceedings, the Judge may make such order as to
costs as shall be just.

1953-55-525.





Service on city within one month




526.


No application to quash a by-law or resolution, or part thereof, under
this part shall be entertained unless notice of the application is
served on the city within one month after the passing of the by-law or
resolution complained of.

1953-55-526.





Particulars to be given




527.


The notice of application shall set out particulars of the illegality
alleged.

1953-55-527.





Repealed




528.


[Repealed 1982-7-112, proclaimed effective September 7, 1982.]






Applies to corrupt practices, etc.




529.


A by-law or resolution in respect of the passing of which a violation
of any of the provisions of section 123 or 124 has taken place may be
quashed under this Part.

1953-55-529; 1993-54-78.





Procedure on application alleging corrupt practices, etc.




530.


Where the ground of the application is an alleged violation of a
provision of section 123 or 124, either alone or in conjunction with
any other ground, the Judge may hold an inquiry and examine witnesses
under oath as to the alleged violation before deciding upon the
application to quash. The Judge in such case may order that nothing
shall be done under the by-law or resolution complained of until the
application is disposed of, but if the application is not proceeded
with to the satisfaction of the Judge, the Judge may remove the stay
of proceedings.

1953-55-530; 1993-54-79; 2022-15-73,Sch 1.



Contents
|


Preamble
|


Part I
|


Part II
|


Part III
|


Part IV
|


Part V
|


Part VI
|


Part VII
|


Part VIII
|


Part IX
|


Part X
|


Part XI
|


Part XII
|


Part XIII
|


Part XIV
|


Part XV
|


Part XVI
|


Part XVII
|



Part XVIII

|


Part XIX
|


Part XX
|


Part XXI
|


Part XXII
|



Part XXIII

|


Part XXIV
|



Part XXIV-A

|



Part XXIV-B

|

Part XXV |

Part XXVI
|



Part XXVII

|



Part XXVIII

|


Part XXIX
|


Part XXX
|


Part XXXI




