





View Complete Statute



Business Corporations Act
[SBC 2002] CHAPTER 57



Part 6 — Financial Records



Division 1 — Accounting Records





Accounting records required




196

(1)


A company must keep adequate accounting records for each of its
financial years and must retain the accounting records kept for a
financial year for the prescribed period.




(2)

A company must retain its accounting records at a place determined by
the directors.




(3)

A company must make its accounting records available for inspection by
any director during statutory business hours and must, on request,
provide to the director a copy of any of those records.




(4)

Shareholders may inspect and obtain a copy of those of the accounting
records of a company that the articles allow and, in that event, the
shareholders may inspect and obtain a copy of those records at the
times and places, in the manner and subject to the terms and
conditions set out in the articles.




(5)

Shareholders may inspect and obtain a copy of accounting records not
referred to in subsection (4) if the shareholders are authorized to do
so by the directors and, in that event, the shareholders may inspect
and obtain a copy of those records at the times and places, in the
manner and subject to the terms and conditions determined by the
directors.




Division 2 — Financial Statements





Exemption




197


This Division does not apply to




(a)

a reporting issuer,




(b)

a reporting issuer equivalent, or




(c)

a company within a prescribed class of companies.






Financial statements




198

(1)


In this section,
"first financial year"
means,




(a)

in the case of a company referred to in section 3 (1) (a) or (c) or
(2) (a) or (c), the period beginning on the date on which the company
was recognized and ending on the date immediately preceding the date
on which the company's next financial year begins, or




(b)

in the case of a company referred to in section 3 (1) (b) or (d) or
(2) (b) or (d), the financial year that includes the date on which the
company was recognized and that ends on the date immediately preceding
the date on which the company's next financial year begins.




(2)

Subject to section 199 and subsection (3) of this section, unless
relieved under section 200 from their obligation to do so, the
directors of a company must, on or before each annual reference date,
produce and publish, in accordance with subsection (4) of this
section,




(a)

financial statements in respect of the latest completed financial year
of the company, even if that financial year is the company's first
financial year, and




(b)

if the date on which the financial statements referred to in paragraph
(a) are published is more than 6 months after the beginning of the
company's current financial year, financial statements for the period
that began at the beginning of the company's current financial year
and ended on a date that is not more than 6 months before the date on
which the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) are
published.




(3)

Subsection (2) does not apply to a company in respect of an annual
reference date that occurs before the end of the company's first
financial year.




(4)

Financial statements required under this Division must be prepared as
prescribed by regulation.






Approval for publication




199

(1)


The directors of a company must ensure that, before financial
statements referred to in section 198 are published, the financial
statements are




(a)

approved by the directors, and




(b)

signed by one or more directors to confirm that the approval required
by paragraph (a) of this subsection was obtained.




(2)

The directors must ensure that financial statements published under
section 198




(a)

have attached any auditor's report made under section 212 (1) (a) on
those financial statements, and




(b)

do not purport to be audited unless those financial statements have,
in fact, been audited and an auditor's report has been made.






Waiver of financial statements




200

(1)


Directors are relieved from their obligation under section 198 to
produce and publish financial statements




(a)

if all of the shareholders of the company, whether or not their shares
otherwise carry the right to vote, resolve by a unanimous resolution
to waive the production and publication of the financial statements,
or




(b)

if and to the extent provided by a court order waiving the production
and publication of some or all of the financial statements and on any
terms the court considers appropriate.




(2)

A waiver referred to in subsection (1) of this section may be given
before, on or after the date on which financial statements are, under
this Division, required to be produced and published and is effective
for those financial statements only.






Financial statements for qualifying debentureholders




201


A company must, promptly after demand by a qualifying debentureholder
of the company, send to that qualifying debentureholder




(a)

a copy of the company's most recently published financial statements
required under section 198, and




(b)

a copy of any auditor's report made under section 212 (1) (a) on those
financial statements.




Contents
|


Part 1
|


Part 2
|


Part 2.1
|


Part 2.2
|


Part 2.3
|


Part 3
|


Part 4
|


Part 4.1
|


Part 5
|

Part 6 |

Part 7
|


Part 8
|


Part 9
|


Part 10
|


Part 11
|


Part 12
|


Part 13
|


Part 14
|


Schedule




