





View Complete Statute



Land Title Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 250



Part 19.1 â€” Land Title and Survey Authority Assurance Fund





Definition




294.1


In this Part:


"court"
means the Supreme Court;


"fund"
means the assurance fund established under section 294.11 by the Land
Title and Survey Authority.






Establishment and maintenance of assurance fund




294.11

(1)


The Land Title and Survey Authority must establish and maintain an
assurance fund for the purposes of this Part.




(2)

The fund




(a)

is the property of the Land Title and Survey Authority,




(b)

must be accounted for separately from other property of the Land Title
and Survey Authority,




(c)

is not subject to any process of garnishment, attachment, execution or
seizure, and




(d)

is not subject to a trust in favour of a person who claims to have
sustained a loss.




(3)

Despite any Act, agreement or court order, a receiver must not
exercise custody or control over the fund.






Application of this Part




294.12


No payment may be made from the fund in respect of a loss, damage or
deprivation referred to in this Part occurring as a result of the
deposit, filing or registration of an instrument or document before
the date this section comes into force.






Remedies of person deprived of land




294.2

(1)


A person, in this Part referred to as the "claimant",




(a)

who is deprived of any estate or interest in land




(i)

because of the conclusiveness of the register, in circumstances where,
if this Act had not been passed, the claimant would have been entitled
to recover the land from the present owner, and




(ii)

in consequence of fraud or a wrongful act in respect of the
registration of a person other than the claimant as owner of the land,
and




(b)

who is barred by this Act or by any other Act, or otherwise precluded
from bringing an action




(i)

for possession, or any other remedy for the recovery of land, or




(ii)

for rectification of the register,


may, subject to subsections (2) and (3), proceed in court for the
recovery of damages against the person by whose fraud or wrongful act
the claimant has been deprived of the land.




(2)

In a proceeding under subsection (1), the Land Title and Survey
Authority must be joined as a nominal party defendant as a condition
of recovering damages and costs from the fund, and the Land Title and
Survey Authority has the right in the proceedings to all the defences
available to the Land Title and Survey Authority or any other person
for the purpose of protecting the fund.




(3)

If the person liable for damages is dead, or cannot be found in
British Columbia, a claimant may, instead of proceeding against that
person, proceed in court for the recovery of damages and costs against
the Land Title and Survey Authority as nominal defendant and
recovering the amount of the damages and costs from the fund, and the
Land Title and Survey Authority has in the proceedings all the rights
and defences under subsection (2).




(4)

If




(a)

final judgment has been given against the person liable for damages
under subsection (1) in a proceeding in which the Land Title and
Survey Authority has been joined as a party defendant, and




(b)

the court, on the application of the plaintiff supported by evidence
satisfactory to the court, certifies to the Land Title and Survey
Authority that the plaintiff has taken all reasonable steps to recover
the amount of damages and costs awarded by the judgment from the
person so liable, but the plaintiff has been unable to recover all or
part of them,


on receipt of a certified copy of the judgment and the certificate of
the court, the Land Title and Survey Authority must




(c)

pay the amount of the damages and costs so awarded or the unrecovered
balance of them, as the case may be, on account of the person liable
for the damages or the person's personal representatives, and




(d)

charge the amount to the fund.




(5)

If the person bringing an action under subsection (3) recovers final
judgment against the Land Title and Survey Authority, the registrar of
the court must certify to the Land Title and Survey Authority the fact
of the judgment and the amount of the damages and costs recovered.




(6)

On receipt of a certificate under subsection (5), the Land Title and
Survey Authority must pay the amount of the damages and costs on
account of the person liable for the damages or the person's personal
representative, and must charge the amount to the fund.




(7)

A proceeding for the recovery of damages sustained through the
deprivation of land may not be brought under this section




(a)

against the Land Title and Survey Authority, or




(b)

against the person by whose fraud or wrongful act the person entitled
to the land has been deprived of it,


unless the proceeding is commenced within 3 years after the
deprivation is discovered by the claimant.




(8)

If a person is under a disability, the

Limitation Act

applies to this section.






Protection of purchaser in good faith and for value




294.21

(1)


In this section,
"transferee"
means a transferee who, in good faith and for valuable consideration,
acquires an estate or interest in land less than a fee simple estate.




(2)

Despite anything to the contrary in this Act, no transferee is subject
to a proceeding under this Part in respect of an estate or interest in
land of which the transferee is the registered owner, for




(a)

recovery of land,




(b)

deprivation of land, or




(c)

damages in respect of land

on the ground that the transferor



(d)

may have been registered as owner through fraud, error or a wrongful
act, or




(e)

may have derived title from or through a person registered as owner
through fraud, error or a wrongful act.




(3)

[Repealed 2005-35-15.]






Fault of registrar




294.22

(1)


Except in accordance with this section, no proceeding may be brought
against the registrar or a person acting under the registrar's
direction by a person sustaining loss or damages caused, solely or
partially, as a result of an omission, mistake or misfeasance of the
registrar, or a person acting under the registrar's direction, in the
execution of their respective duties under this Act.




(2)

A person sustaining loss or damages caused, solely or partially, as a
result of an omission, mistake or misfeasance of the registrar, or a
person acting under the registrar's direction, in the execution of
their respective duties under this Act, may, subject to section 294.6
[limitation of liability of fund]
, proceed in court against the Land Title and Survey Authority as
nominal defendant for the purpose of recovering the amount of the loss
or damages and costs from the fund.




(3)

Despite the

Limitation Act

, an action may not be brought against the Land Title and Survey
Authority under this section unless the action is commenced within 3
years after the loss or damage is discovered by the claimant.




(4)

If the person bringing an action under subsection (1) recovers final
judgment against the Land Title and Survey Authority, the registrar of
the court must certify to the Land Title and Survey Authority the fact
of the judgment and the amount of the damages and costs recovered.




(5)

The Land Title and Survey Authority must, on receipt of the
certificate under subsection (4), pay the amount of the damages and
costs, and must charge the amount to the fund.






Notice of actions against Land Title and Survey Authority




294.3

(1)


A proceeding against the Land Title and Survey Authority, or in which
the Land Title and Survey Authority is required to be joined as a
party defendant under this Part, may not be commenced until the
expiration of one month after a notice of the intended proceeding,
setting out




(a)

the particulars of the claim, and




(b)

fully and fairly all the material facts of the matter,


has been served on the Land Title and Survey Authority and on the
registrar.




(2)

The Land Title and Survey Authority may, on application supported by
an affidavit, grant relief in whole or in part from strict compliance
with subsection (1).






Liability of plaintiff for costs




294.4

(1)


A plaintiff in an action is liable to pay the full costs of the action
if




(a)

judgment is given in favour of the Land Title and Survey Authority as
nominal defendant,




(b)

the plaintiff discontinues the action, or




(c)

the action is dismissed.




(2)

The costs when taxed must be levied in the name of the Land Title and
Survey Authority as nominal defendant by similar process or execution
as in other actions.






Judgment against person liable




294.5

(1)


If an amount has been paid by the Land Title and Survey Authority in
respect of a judgment recovered under section 294.2, the court,




(a)

on an application by the Land Title and Survey Authority without
notice to any person, and




(b)

on the production of a certificate signed by the Land Title and Survey
Authority certifying that the amount has been paid in satisfaction of
the judgment,


may order that judgment be entered for the amount so paid, together
with the costs of the application, in favour of the Land Title and
Survey Authority for the benefit of the fund against the person liable
for damages and costs and on whose account the amount has been paid,
or against the personal representatives of that person.




(2)

A judgment so entered is final, and is enforceable by similar process
or execution as in the case of other judgments.






Limitation of liability of fund




294.6


The fund or the Land Title and Survey Authority as nominal defendant
is not under any circumstances liable for compensation for loss,
damage or deprivation




(a)

occasioned to or suffered by




(i)

the owner of undersurface rights, or




(ii)

an equitable mortgagee by deposit of the duplicate indefeasible title,
whether or not accompanied by a memorandum of deposit,




(b)

occasioned by




(i)

the breach by a registered owner of a trust, whether express, implied,
constructive or statutory,




(ii)

land being included under an indefeasible title with other land
through misdescription of boundaries or parcels of land,




(iii)

the improper use of the seal of a corporation or by an act of an
authorized signatory of a corporation who exceeds the signatory's
authority,




(iv)

the dissolution of a corporation, or its lack of capacity to hold and
dispose of land, or




(v)

the issue of a provisional certificate of title,




(c)

if the land in question may have been included in 2 or more grants
from the Crown,




(d)

because of an error or shortage in area of a lot, block or subdivision
or in volume of an air space parcel, according to a plan filed or
deposited in the land title office,




(e)

if the plaintiff, or the person through or under whom the plaintiff
claims,




(i)

was served with notice in any manner permitted by this Act, or




(ii)

not being served with notice, had knowledge that the registrar or a
person under the registrar's direction was about to commit the act
through which the plaintiff claims to have suffered damages,


unless the person so served or having knowledge took and maintained
the proper proceedings to establish the person's claim to the land, or
to prevent that act on the part of the registrar or the person under
the registrar's direction for service of a notice,




(f)

in respect of the proportion of the loss, damage or deprivation caused
or contributed to by the act, neglect or default of the plaintiff,




(g)

if the loss, damage or deprivation arises out of a matter in respect
of which the registrar is by any Act or law not required, either
expressly or by necessary implication, to inquire, or




(h)

occasioned by an act or omission of the registrar, or a person acting
under the registrar's direction, in relation to the general index that
is referred to in section 250 of the

Strata Property Act

including, without limitation,




(i)

making an endorsement on the general index,




(ii)

failing or delaying to file a document or to make an endorsement on
the general index,




(iii)

making an error in an endorsement on the general index, or




(iv)

giving or omitting to give advice concerning the general index.






Recovery limited to value of land




294.61

(1)


A person is not entitled to recover from the Land Title and Survey
Authority as nominal defendant or the fund an amount for compensation,
in respect of loss, damage or deprivation of land, greater than the
value of the land at the time of the loss, damage or deprivation.




(2)

In ascertaining the compensation, the value of buildings and other
improvements erected or made subsequent to the loss, damage or
deprivation must be excluded.






Payment from fund without action




294.7


The Land Title and Survey Authority, without a proceeding being
brought, may admit or compromise a claim made under this Part against
the fund, and may pay all or part of the claim.






Payment by Land Title and Survey Authority




294.8


The Land Title and Survey Authority must pay the amount of a claim or
judgment in respect of which the fund is liable if there is not at
that time a sufficient amount at the credit of the fund.






Withholding of payment until proceedings concluded




294.9


The Land Title and Survey Authority is not bound to make payment under
this Part in the case of a final judgment until




(a)

the time allowed for appeal from the judgment has expired, or




(b)

the determination of all proceedings in the action, including appeals.




Contents
|


Part 1
|


Part 2
|


Part 3
|


Part 4
|


Part 5
|


Part 6
|


Part 7
|


Part 8
|


Part 9
|


Part 10
|


Part 10.1
|


Part 11
|


Part 12
|


Part 13
|


Part 14
|


Part 15
|


Part 16
|


Part 17
|


Part 18
|


Part 19
|

Part 19.1 |

Part 20
|


Part 21
|


Part 22
|


Part 23
|


Part 24
|



Part 24.01

|


Part 24.1
|


Part 24.2
|


Part 25
|



Schedule 1

|



Schedule 2





