





View Complete Regulation






B.C. Reg. 168/2009

O.C. 302/2009


Deposited July 7, 2009

effective July 1, 2010






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.

See “Amendments Not in Force” for amendments

effective after March 5, 2024.





Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Court Rules Act


Supreme Court Civil Rules


[Last amended January 15, 2024 by B.C. Reg. 277/2023]



Part 21 — Special Rules for Certain Proceedings



Rule 21-1 — Admiralty Matters






Actions to which rule applies



(1)

This rule applies if an action may be brought in rem against a ship or
other property.







What actions may be brought in rem



(2)

Except to the extent that jurisdiction has been otherwise specially
assigned, an action may be brought in rem against a ship or other
property that may be brought in rem in the Federal Court of Canada in
all cases in which a claim for relief is made under or by virtue of
Canadian maritime law or any other law of Canada relating to
navigation and shipping.








Notice of civil claim — actions in rem




(3)

An action in rem must be started by issuing a notice of civil claim in
Form 81.








Notice of civil claim — when started with action in personam




(4)

An action in rem may be started with an action in personam by the
issuance of a notice of civil claim in Form 82 and may be joined with
another proceeding in accordance with Rule 22-5.








Special service rules for notices of claim issued under subrule (3)
or (4)




(5)

In an action in rem, the notice of civil claim may be served in
British Columbia,




(a)

on a ship or other property on board a ship, by affixing a copy of the
filed notice of civil claim to a conspicuous part of the ship that is
protected from the elements to the extent practicable, and




(b)

on property that is not on board a ship, by




(i)

attaching a copy of the filed notice of civil claim to a conspicuous
part of the property protected from the elements to the extent
practicable, or




(ii)

by personal service on the person having apparent custody of the
property.








Response to civil claim may be filed in name of ship




(6)

In an action in rem, a response to civil claim may be filed in the
name of the property named.







Response to civil claim



(7)

A person who files a response to civil claim to an action in rem must
set out the nature of the interest that the person claims in the ship
or other property.







Arrest — "Affidavit to Lead Warrant"



(8)

A party may, at any time after an action in rem has been started,
apply for a warrant for the arrest of the property named by filing
with a registrar an "Affidavit to Lead Warrant" in Form 83.







Issue of warrant



(9)

If an affidavit to lead warrant is filed under subrule (8), a
registrar may, after reading the affidavit,




(a)

issue the warrant, or




(b)

refer the matter to the court and the court may issue the warrant,
subject to any directions that the court may give.







Form of warrant



(10)

A warrant to arrest under this rule must be in Form 84.







Service of warrant



(11)

The warrant must be served in the manner provided by subrule (5) by a
person authorized to serve a writ of execution.







Proof of service



(12)

The person who serves a warrant must file proof of service promptly
after service is effected.







When arrest takes effect



(13)

The arrest of property that is authorized by the warrant to be
arrested takes effect at the time the warrant is served.







Property not to be moved



(14)

After arrest, a person must not move the property that has been
arrested, unless the court permits it or all parties interested in the
action consent.







Order for safety and preservation



(15)

After property has been arrested, the court may make an order for the
property's safety and preservation on terms and conditions, if any,
and, in particular, may




(a)

authorize the property to be moved, and




(b)

order that perishable property be disposed of with the proceeds to be
paid as directed by the court.







Possession of property arrested



(16)

The court may, on application of any interested party, authorize a
person to take possession of, and assume responsibility for, property
that has been arrested under this rule, but, if no such order is made,
the possession and responsibility continues in the person or persons
who were in possession of the property immediately before the arrest.







Security



(17)

The court must not make an order under subrule (16) unless the court
is satisfied that the applicant has paid or given adequate security
for all fees, charges and expenses that will be incurred while the
property is in the possession of the person authorized under subrule
(16).



Caveats






Filing of caveat



(18)

A person who wishes to prevent the release of any property that has
been arrested under this rule or who wishes to prevent the payment out
of court of proceeds of the disposition of property that has been
arrested must file a caveat in Form 85 in the registry from which the
warrant was issued.







Withdrawal of caveat



(19)

A person who has filed a caveat may withdraw it by filing a notice to
that effect in Form 86.







Damages for wrongful filing of caveat



(20)

Any person who suffers damages or costs as a result of a caveat being
filed without sufficient justification may apply to the court to have
those damages and costs summarily determined.







Application for damages



(21)

An application under subrule (20) must be served on the caveator.







Summary determination of damages



(22)

If the court finds that the caveator cannot show that there was
sufficient justification for the filing of the caveat, the court must
summarily determine the amount of damages and costs suffered by the
applicant and make an order for payment accordingly.



Release of Property






Release of property arrested



(23)

The court may, on application of any person having an interest in
property arrested under this rule, order the release of the property
arrested on bail being posted.







Bail bond or guarantee



(24)

Bail to answer judgment and obtain the release of property arrested
under this rule may be posted




(a)

by making a payment into court as bail in Form 87,




(b)

by delivering to a registrar the guarantee of a chartered bank of
Canada or the bond of any surety company licensed to do business in
British Columbia in Form 88, or




(c)

in the manner the parties may agree or the court may order.







Amount of bail



(25)

The amount of bail to be posted must be the lesser of




(a)

an amount sufficient to answer judgment in the proceedings against the
property arrested, and




(b)

the appraised value of the property.







Service of the application



(26)

Unless the court otherwise orders, notice of an application for the
release of property arrested under this rule must be served at least
one day before the application is heard




(a)

on the party to the action at whose instance the arrest was made, and




(b)

on any person having filed a caveat to prevent the property from being
released from arrest.







Bail information required



(27)

Notice of an application for the release of property arrested under
this rule must set out the amount of any bail to be posted and the
name of the bank or surety company that will post the bail.







Release



(28)

A registrar must issue a release from arrest in Form 89 when




(a)

the court orders the release of the property arrested under this rule,
or




(b)

consent to the release of the property arrested under this rule is
given by




(i)

the party at whose instance the property was arrested, and




(ii)

the persons who filed caveats to prevent the release of the property
from arrest.







When release occurs



(29)

On delivery of the release from arrest to the person in possession and
on payment to the person in possession of all fees and charges
incurred in respect of the arrest and custody, if any, of the property
arrested, the property is released from arrest.



Collisions at Sea — the "Preliminary Act"






Application of subrules (31) to (35)



(30)

Unless the court otherwise orders, if there is an action arising out
of a collision of ships at sea, subrules (31) to (35) apply.







Pleadings and particulars



(31)

If this rule applies, the notice of civil claim, response to civil
claim, counterclaim and any other pleadings need not contain any
particulars concerning the collision other than those particulars that
are necessary to identify the collision to an opposing party.







The "preliminary act"



(32)

The notice of civil claim, response to civil claim and any
counterclaim must be accompanied by a sealed envelope that bears the
style of proceeding and in which has been enclosed a statement of
particulars, to be known as a "preliminary act", that contains the
following particulars:




(a)

the names of the ships that came into collision and the names of their
masters;




(b)

the time of the collision;




(c)

the place of the collision;




(d)

the direction and force of the wind;




(e)

the state of the weather;




(f)

the state and force of the tide or, if the collision occurred in
non-tidal waters, of the current;




(g)

the course being steered and the speed through the water of the ship
when the other ship was first seen or immediately before any measures
were taken with reference to her presence, whichever was the earlier,
and all subsequent alterations to the course or speed of the ship up
to the time of the collision;




(h)

the lights, if any, carried by the ship;




(i)

the distance and bearing of the other ship if and when her echo was
first observed by radar;




(j)

the distance, bearing and approximate heading of the other ship when
it was first seen;




(k)

the lights, if any, of the other ship that were first seen;




(l)

the lights, if any, of the other ship other than those first seen that
came into view before the collision;




(m)

the measures that were taken to avoid the collision and when they were
taken;




(n)

the parts of each ship that first came into contact and the
approximate angle, as illustrated by an appropriate sketch annexed,
between the two ships at the moment of contact;




(o)

the sound signals that were given, if any, and when they were given;




(p)

the fault or default, if any, attributed to the other ship;




(q)

the sound signals, if any, that were heard from the other ship and
when they were heard.







Form of preliminary act



(33)

The preliminary act must be in parallel columns such that the
respective particulars referred to in subrule (32) (a) to (q) in
respect of each ship can easily be compared.







Preliminary act not to be opened



(34)

A preliminary act must not be opened unless all parties consent or the
court, on application of one of the parties, orders it to be opened.








Preliminary act to form part of pleading




(35)

After a preliminary act has been opened, it forms part of the
appropriate pleadings of the party.




Rule 21-2 —
Carriage by Air Act







Carriage by Air Act




(1)

In an action under the
Carriage by Air Act
(Canada) and the convention set out in that Act, a high contracting
party to the convention who, for the purposes of that action and by
virtue of that Act, is deemed to have submitted to the jurisdiction of
the court may be made a defendant subject to these Supreme Court Civil
Rules.




Rule 21-3 — Mandamus, Prohibition, Certiorari and Habeas Corpus






Proceeding to be started by petition



(1)

Applications for relief in the nature of mandamus, prohibition,
certiorari or habeas corpus are governed by these Supreme Court Civil
Rules and must be started by petition under Rule 16-1.







Writs abolished



(2)

Directions respecting applications referred to in subrule (1) must be
made by order and no writ of mandamus, prohibition, certiorari or
habeas corpus is to be issued.








Person affected may take part in proceeding




(3)

The court may order that a person who may be affected by a proceeding
for an order in the nature of mandamus may take part in the proceeding
to the same extent as if served with the petition.




Rule 21-4 and Rule 21-5

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 149/2013, s. 4.]


Rule 21-6 —
Wills, Estates and Succession Act
Wills Variation Proceedings







Proceedings under the
Wills, Estates and Succession Act




(1)

A proceeding under section 60 of the

Wills, Estates and Succession Act

must be started by a notice of civil claim.

[am. B.C. Reg. 149/2013, s. 5 (b).]






Parties



(2)

In a proceeding referred to in subrule (1),




(a)

the following persons must be parties to the proceeding:




(i)

the surviving spouse and children of the will-maker;




(ii)

all beneficiaries under the will-maker's will whose interest may be
affected by the order sought;




(iii)

the executor of the will, and




(b)

the court may order that any other person be joined as a party.

[am. B.C. Reg. 149/2013, s. 5 (c) and (d).]






Response to civil claim



(3)

In a response to civil claim, a defendant may raise a claim under
section 60 of the

Wills, Estates and Succession Act

on his or her own behalf, and any other party may serve a reply.

[am. B.C. Reg. 149/2013, s. 5 (b).]






These Supreme Court Civil Rules apply



(4)

A proceeding referred to in this rule is governed by these Supreme
Court Civil Rules.

[am. B.C. Reg. 149/2013, s. 5 (e).]



Rule 21-7 — Foreclosure and Cancellation






Starting the proceeding



(1)

A proceeding for foreclosure of the equitable right to redeem
mortgaged property or for redemption must be started by petition.







Parties



(2)

In a proceeding referred to in subrule (1), all persons whose interest
in or claim to the mortgaged property is sought to be extinguished and
all persons against whom any relief is sought must be made respondents
and, unless the court otherwise orders, it is not necessary to join
any other person as a respondent.







Joinder of claim or party



(3)

A petitioner under this rule may join in the proceeding any claim
arising out of the mortgage or out of any bond or collateral security
or obligation given for the mortgage debt and may join as a party any
person who is liable to pay the mortgage debt.








Person filing interest after certificate of pending litigation




(4)

If a petitioner under this rule registers a certificate of pending
litigation in respect of the proceeding against the mortgaged
property, a person who subsequently registers or files in a land title
office an interest, right or claim in or to the mortgaged property




(a)

need not be served with the petition,




(b)

is bound by an order made in the proceeding, and




(c)

may file a response to petition in the proceeding.







Information must accompany petition



(4.1)

A petitioner under this rule who serves a petition referred to in
subrule (1) must include with the petition an informational notice for
foreclosure proceedings in Form 125.

[en. B.C. Reg. 321/2021, Sch. 1, s. 5.]






Powers of the court



(5)

The court may do one or more of the following in a proceeding under
subrule (1):




(a)

make a final order of foreclosure;




(b)

order that a respondent must, within a redemption period that the
court may fix, pay to the petitioner what is due under the mortgage
and for costs, and that, in default of payment, the respondent is to
be foreclosed of his or her equity of redemption;




(c)

determine summarily, or order that an account be taken of and that a
registrar certify, the amount that is due to the petitioner or to any
person on the date of the hearing of the petition or on the date of
the accounting, as the case may be;




(d)

determine summarily, or order that an account be taken of and that the
registrar certify, in relation to the amount determined under
paragraph (c),




(i)

the daily amount of interest from the date of the hearing of the
petition or from the date of the accounting, as the case may be, to
the expiration of the period of redemption, or




(ii)

if the daily amount of interest referred to in subparagraph (i) may
fluctuate over the period referred to in that subparagraph, the method
for calculating such interest;




(e)

pronounce judgment for any amount determined to be due or for any
amount that has been certified to be due on an accounting;




(f)

determine summarily, or order an inquiry to determine, any issues
raised between respondents, including priorities;




(g)

determine summarily, or order an inquiry to determine, whether a
person should be served with the petition;




(h)

order at what times, on what terms and in what order of priority
respondents may redeem the mortgaged property and that in default they
are to be foreclosed of any interest, right or claim in or to the
mortgaged property;




(i)

order a sale of the mortgaged property;




(j)

grant further or corollary relief;




(k)

make an order under Rule 22-1 (7).







Final order



(6)

In default of payment in accordance with an order made under subrule
(5), a final order of foreclosure may be granted against a respondent
on application by the petitioner.







Order for sale



(7)

A party of record may apply at any time for an order that the
mortgaged property be sold or be put up for sale.







Inquiry to settle terms of sale



(8)

The court may order an inquiry to settle the terms of a sale.







Order confirming sale



(9)

Even though the time for redemption has not expired, the person having
conduct of a sale may apply to the court for an order confirming the
sale, directing the disposition of the proceeds and vesting title in
the purchaser.







Notice to assess costs



(10)

A respondent wishing to redeem may, on paying to the petitioner the
amount due under the mortgage, serve notice on the petitioner to
assess costs, and if, within 14 days after service of the notice, the
petitioner has not filed a bill of costs for assessment, the
petitioner is not entitled to costs.







Agreement for sale



(11)

This rule applies to a proceeding by a vendor on an agreement for sale
of land in which a claim is made for specific performance of an
agreement for sale and for its cancellation on failure to perform.




Rule 21-8 — Jurisdictional Disputes






Disputed jurisdiction



(1)

A party who has been served with an originating pleading or petition
in a proceeding, whether that service was effected in or outside
British Columbia, may, after filing a jurisdictional response in Form
108,




(a)

apply to strike out the notice of civil claim, counterclaim, third
party notice or petition or to dismiss or stay the proceeding on the
ground that the notice of civil claim, counterclaim, third party
notice or petition does not allege facts that, if true, would
establish that the court has jurisdiction over that party in respect
of the claim made against that party in the proceeding,




(b)

apply to dismiss or stay the proceeding on the ground that the court
does not have jurisdiction over that party in respect of the claim
made against that party in the proceeding, or




(c)

allege in a pleading or in a response to petition that the court does
not have jurisdiction over that party in respect of the claim made
against that party in the proceeding.

[am. B.C. Reg. 119/2010, Sch. A, s. 35.]







Order declining jurisdiction may be sought




(2)

Whether or not a party referred to in subrule (1) applies or makes an
allegation under that subrule, the party may apply to court for a stay
of the proceeding on the ground that the court ought to decline to
exercise jurisdiction over that party in respect of the claim made
against that party in the proceeding.







Disputed pleading or service



(3)

If a party who has been served with an originating pleading or
petition in a proceeding, whether served in or outside British
Columbia, alleges that the notice of civil claim, counterclaim, third
party notice or petition is invalid or has expired or that the
purported service of the notice of civil claim, counterclaim, third
party notice or petition was invalid, the party may, after filing a
jurisdictional response in Form 108, apply for one or both of the
following:




(a)

an order setting aside the notice of civil claim, counterclaim, third
party notice or petition;




(b)

an order setting aside service of the notice of civil claim,
counterclaim, third party notice or petition.

[am. B.C. Reg. 119/2010, Sch. A, s. 35.]






Powers of court pending resolution



(4)

If an application is brought under subrule (1) (a) or (b) or (3) or an
issue is raised by an allegation in a pleading or a response to
petition referred to in subrule (1) (c), the court may, on the
application of a party of record, before deciding the first-mentioned
application or issue,




(a)

stay the proceeding,




(b)

give directions for the conduct of the first-mentioned application,




(c)

give directions for the conduct of the proceeding, and




(d)

discharge any order previously made in the proceeding.







Party does not submit to jurisdiction



(5)

If, within 30 days after filing a jurisdictional response in a
proceeding, the filing party serves a notice of application under
subrule (1) (a) or (b) or (3) on the parties of record or files a
pleading or a response to petition referred to in subrule (1) (c),




(a)

the party does not submit to the jurisdiction of the court in relation
to the proceeding merely by filing or serving any or all of the
following:




(i)

the jurisdictional response;




(ii)

a pleading or a response to petition under subrule (1) (c);




(iii)

a notice of application and supporting affidavits under subrule (1)
(a) or (b), and




(b)

until the court has decided the application or the issue raised by the
pleading, petition or response to petition, the party may, without
submitting to the jurisdiction of the court,




(i)

apply for, enforce or obey an order of the court, and




(ii)

defend the proceeding on its merits.




Rule 21-9 —
Negligence Act
Claims







Contribution or indemnity claimed under the
Negligence Act




(1)

A defendant who claims contribution or indemnity under the

Negligence Act

from a person must do so,




(a)

if the person against whom the claim is to be made is a plaintiff, by
counterclaim, or




(b)

in any other case, whether or not the person against whom the claim is
to be made is a party to the action, by third party notice.








Apportionment of liability claimed under the
Negligence Act




(2)

A defendant who does not claim contribution or indemnity under the

Negligence Act

but who does claim an apportionment of liability under that Act must
claim that apportionment in the response to civil claim.




Part 22 — General



Rule 22-1 — Chambers Proceedings






Definition



(1)

In this rule,
"chambers proceeding"
includes the following:




(a)

a petition proceeding;




(b)

a requisition proceeding that has been set for hearing under Rule 17-1
(5) (b);




(c)

an application, including, without limitation, the following:




(i)

an application to change or set aside a judgment;




(ii)

a matter that is ordered to be disposed of other than at trial;




(d)

an appeal from, or an application to confirm, change or set aside, an
order, a report, a certificate or a recommendation of an associate
judge, registrar, special referee or other officer of the court;




(e)

an action that has, or issues in an action that have, been ordered to
be proceeded with by affidavit or on documents before the court, and
stated cases, special cases and hearings on a point of law;




(f)

an application for judgment under Rule 3-8, 7-7 (6), 9-6 or 9-7.

[am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3, s. 1.]






Failure of party to attend



(2)

If a party to a chambers proceeding fails to attend at the hearing of
the chambers proceeding, the court may proceed if, considering the
nature of the chambers proceeding, it considers it will further the
object of these Supreme Court Civil Rules to do so, and may require
evidence of service it considers appropriate.







Reconsideration of order



(3)

If the court makes an order in circumstances referred to in subrule
(2), the order must not be reconsidered unless the court is satisfied
that the person failing to attend was not guilty of wilful delay or
default.







Evidence on an application



(4)

On a chambers proceeding, evidence must be given by affidavit, but the
court may




(a)

order the attendance for cross-examination of the person who swore or
affirmed the affidavit, either before the court or before another
person as the court directs,




(b)

order the examination of a party or witness, either before the court
or before another person as the court directs,




(c)

give directions required for the discovery, inspection or production
of a document or copy of that document,




(d)

order an inquiry, assessment or accounting under Rule 18-1, and




(e)

receive other forms of evidence.







Hearing of application in public



(5)

Except in cases of urgency, a chambers proceeding must be heard in a
place open to the public, unless the court, in the case of a
particular chambers proceeding, directs that for special reasons the
chambers proceeding ought to be dealt with in private.








Adjournment of application if applications not heard on date set




(6)

If a chambers proceeding has been set for hearing on a day on which
the court does not hear chambers proceedings, the chambers proceeding
stands adjourned without order to the next day on which the court
hears chambers proceedings.







Power of the court



(7)

Without limiting subrule (4), on the hearing of a chambers proceeding,
the court may




(a)

grant or refuse the relief claimed in whole or in part, or dispose of
any question arising on the chambers proceeding,




(b)

adjourn the chambers proceeding from time to time, either to a
particular date or generally, and when the chambers proceeding is
adjourned generally a party of record may set it down on 3 days'
notice for further hearing,




(c)

obtain the assistance of one or more experts, in which case Rule 11-5
applies, and




(d)

order a trial of the chambers proceeding, either generally or on an
issue, and order pleadings to be filed and, in that event, give
directions for the conduct of the trial and of pre-trial proceedings
and for the disposition of the chambers proceeding.







Powers of court if notice not given



(8)

If it appears to the court that notice of a chambers proceeding ought
to have been but was not served on a person, the court may




(a)

dismiss the chambers proceeding or dismiss it only against that
person,




(b)

adjourn the chambers proceeding and direct that service be effected on
that person or that notice be given in some alternate manner to that
person, or




(c)

direct that any order made, together with any other documents the
court may order, be served on that person.







Urgent chambers proceeding



(9)

Rules 8-4 and 8-5 apply to chambers proceedings.







Adjournment



(10)

The hearing of a chambers proceeding may be adjourned from time to
time by a registrar.







Notes of applications



(11)

A registrar must




(a)

attend at and keep notes of the hearings of all chambers proceedings,
and




(b)

include, in the notes kept under paragraph (a) in relation to the
hearing of a chambers proceeding, a short statement of the questions
or points decided or orders made at the hearing.




Rule 22-2 — Affidavits






Affidavit to be filed



(1)

An affidavit used in a proceeding must be filed.







Form and content of affidavit



(2)

An affidavit




(a)

must be expressed in the first person and show the name, address and
occupation of the person swearing or affirming the affidavit,




(b)

if the person swearing or affirming the affidavit is a party or the
lawyer, agent, director, officer or employee of a party, must state
that fact,




(c)

must be divided into paragraphs numbered consecutively, and




(d)

may be in Form 109.







Identifying affidavits



(3)

There must be set out in the top right hand corner of the first page
of an affidavit, other than an affidavit of service,




(a)

the name of the person swearing or affirming the affidavit,




(b)

the sequential number of the affidavit made by that person in the same
proceeding, and




(c)

the date on which the affidavit was made.







Making affidavit



(4)

An affidavit is made when




(a)

the affidavit is sworn or affirmed by the person swearing or affirming
the affidavit,




(b)

the person swearing or affirming the affidavit




(i)

signs the affidavit, or




(ii)

if the person swearing or affirming the affidavit is unable to sign
the affidavit, places his or her mark on it, and




(c)

the person before whom the affidavit is sworn or affirmed completes
and signs a statement in accordance with subrule (5) and identifies
each exhibit, if any, to the affidavit in accordance with subrule (8).







Statement to be signed



(5)

The person before whom an affidavit is sworn or affirmed must confirm
that the affidavit was sworn or affirmed in the person's presence by
completing and signing a statement on the affidavit in the following
form:



Sworn (or affirmed) before me at ................. British Columbia on
..........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
]..........








Statement if person swearing or affirming the affidavit unable to
read




(6)

If it appears to the person before whom an affidavit is sworn or
affirmed that the person swearing or affirming the affidavit is unable
to read it, the person before whom it is sworn or affirmed must
certify in the statement signed under subrule (5) that the affidavit
was read in his or her presence to the person swearing or affirming
the affidavit who seemed to understand it.








Interpretation to person swearing or affirming the affidavit who
does not understand English




(7)

If it appears to the person before whom an affidavit is to be sworn or
affirmed that the person swearing or affirming the affidavit does not
understand the English language, the affidavit must be interpreted to
the person swearing or affirming the affidavit by a competent
interpreter who must certify on the affidavit, by endorsement in Form
109, that he or she has interpreted the affidavit to the person
swearing or affirming the affidavit.







Exhibit to be marked



(8)

The person before whom an affidavit is sworn or affirmed must identify
each exhibit referred to in the affidavit by signing a certificate
placed on the exhibit in the following form:



This is Exhibit .......... referred to in the affidavit of
.............................. sworn (or affirmed) before me on
..........[
dd/mmm/yyyy
].......... .







Exhibits referred to in affidavits



(9)

The following applies to an exhibit referred to in an affidavit:




(a)

if the exhibit is a document that complies with Rule 22-3 (2) and does
not exceed 10 pages, a true reproduction of the document must be
attached to the affidavit and to all copies of the affidavit that are
served;




(b)

if the exhibit is a document that complies with Rule 22-3 (2) and
exceeds 10 pages, the exhibit need not be filed with the affidavit,
but must be made available for the use of the court and for the prior
inspection of a party to the proceeding;




(c)

if the exhibit is not a document that complies with Rule 22-3 (2), the
exhibit must not be filed with the affidavit, but must be made
available for the use of the court and for the prior inspection of a
party to the proceeding.

[en. B.C. Reg. 321/2021, Sch. 1, s. 6.]






Numbering exhibit pages



(10)

Each page of the documentary exhibits referred to in an affidavit,
other than an affidavit of service, must be numbered sequentially,
beginning with the first page of the first exhibit and ending with the
last page of the last exhibit,




(a)

on the original exhibits and on all copies that are served, and




(b)

even though one or more of those exhibits is not attached to the
affidavit.







Alterations to be initialled



(11)

The person before whom an affidavit is sworn or affirmed must initial
all alterations in the affidavit and, unless so initialled, the
affidavit must not be used in a proceeding without leave of the court.







Limitation on contents of affidavit



(12)

Subject to subrule (13), an affidavit must state only what a person
swearing or affirming the affidavit would be permitted to state in
evidence at a trial.







Exception



(13)

An affidavit may contain statements as to the information and belief
of the person swearing or affirming the affidavit, if




(a)

the source of the information and belief is given, and




(b)

the affidavit is made




(i)

in respect of an application that does not seek a final order, or




(ii)

by leave of the court under Rule 12-5 (71) (a) or 22-1 (4) (e).

[am. B.C. Reg. 119/2010, Sch. A, s. 36.]






Use of defective affidavit



(14)

With leave of the court, an affidavit may be used in evidence despite
an irregularity in its form.








Affidavit made before proceeding started




(15)

An affidavit may be used in a proceeding even though it was made
before the proceeding was started.








Affidavit of patient under the
Patients Property Act




(16)

If an affidavit is required for use in a proceeding and the person who
is proposed to swear or affirm the affidavit is a patient as defined
in the

Patients Property Act

, the affidavit may be sworn or affirmed, on information and belief,
by the litigation guardian of the patient.




Rule 22-3 — Forms and Documents






Forms



(1)

The forms in Appendix A or A.1 must be used if applicable, with
variations as the circumstances of the proceeding require, and each of
those forms must be completed by including the information required by
that form in accordance with any instructions included on the form.

[am. B.C. Reg. 149/2013, s. 6.]






Documents



(2)

Unless the nature of the document renders it impracticable, every
document prepared for use in the court must be in the English
language, legibly printed, typewritten, written or reproduced on 8 1/2
inch ´ 11 inch durable white paper or durable off-white recycled
paper.







Transcripts



(3)

Transcripts of oral evidence must conform to subrule (2).







Space for stamp



(4)

The first page of each document prepared for use in a proceeding must
contain a blank area extending at least 5 centimetres from the top of
the page and at least 5 centimetres from the left edge of the page.







Style of proceeding



(5)

A document prepared for use in a proceeding must be headed with the
style of proceeding set out on the most recent originating pleading to
be filed in that proceeding, but in a document, other than an order or
a document that starts a proceeding, if there is more than one party
to the proceeding identified as a plaintiff or as any other
classification of party, the style of proceeding may be abbreviated to
show the name of the first party listed in that classification,
followed by the words "and others".







Exception



(5.1)

Subrule (5) does not apply to notices under Rule 25-2 (3) in Form
P1.

[en. B.C. Reg. 103/2015, s. 3.]







Style of proceeding for class proceeding




(6)

The style of proceeding for a proceeding must include the words
"Brought under the

Class Proceedings Act

" immediately below the listed parties if




(a)

it is intended, at the start of the proceeding, that a certification
order will be sought in respect of the proceeding under the

Class Proceedings Act

, or




(b)

in any other case, a certification order is subsequently granted in
respect of the proceeding,


unless and until a certification order is refused in respect of the
proceeding or the proceeding is decertified.




Rule 22-4 — Time






Computation of time



(1)

Unless a contrary intention otherwise appears, if a period of less
than 7 days is set out by these Supreme Court Civil Rules or in an
order of the court, holidays are not counted.







Extending or shortening time



(2)

The court may extend or shorten any period of time provided for in
these Supreme Court Civil Rules or in an order of the court, even
though the application for the extension or the order granting the
extension is made after the period of time has expired.








Extending or shortening time respecting pleadings




(3)

The period fixed by these Supreme Court Civil Rules or an order for
serving, filing or amending a pleading or other document may be
extended by consent.








Notice of intention to proceed after delay of one year




(4)

In a proceeding in which judgment has not been pronounced and no step
has been taken for one year, a party must not proceed until




(a)

the expiration of 28 days after service, on all parties of record, of
notice in Form 44 of that party's intention to proceed, and




(b)

a copy of the notice of intention to proceed and proof of its service
has been filed.







Want of prosecution



(5)

Despite this rule, a defendant or respondent may apply to have a
proceeding dismissed for want of prosecution without serving a notice
of intention to proceed in Form 44.







Attendance



(6)

Attendance on an appointment before an official reporter within 1/2
hour following the time fixed for the appointment is a sufficient
attendance.




Rule 22-5 — Multiple Claims and Parties






Multiple claims



(1)

Subject to subrule (6), a person, whether claiming in the same or
different capacities, may join several claims in the same proceeding.







Multiple parties



(2)

Subject to subrule (6), a proceeding may be started by or against 2 or
more persons in any of the following circumstances:




(a)

if separate proceedings were brought by or against each of those
persons, a common question of law or fact would arise in all the
proceedings;




(b)

a right to relief claimed in the proceedings, whether it is joint,
several or alternative, is in respect of or arises out of the same
transaction or series of transactions;




(c)

the court grants leave to do so.








Joining persons jointly entitled to relief




(3)

Subject to any enactment or these Supreme Court Civil Rules or unless
the court otherwise orders, a plaintiff or petitioner who claims
relief to which any other person is jointly entitled must join as
parties to the proceeding all persons so entitled, and any of them who
do not consent to be joined as a plaintiff or petitioner must be made
a defendant or respondent.







If persons are jointly liable



(4)

If relief is claimed against a person who is jointly liable with some
other person, the other person need not be made a party to the
proceeding, but if persons may be jointly, but not severally, liable
and relief is claimed against some but not all of those persons in a
proceeding, the court may stay the proceeding until the other persons
who may be liable are added as parties.








Party need not be interested in all relief




(5)

It is not necessary that every party be interested in all the relief
sought in a proceeding, but the court may order that a party be
compensated for being required to attend, or be relieved from
attending, a part of a trial or hearing in which that party has no
interest.







Separation



(6)

If a joinder of several claims or parties in a proceeding may unduly
complicate or delay the trial or hearing of the proceeding or is
otherwise inconvenient, the court may order separate trials or
hearings or make any other order it considers will further the object
of these Supreme Court Civil Rules.








Separating counterclaim or third party claim




(7)

If a counterclaim or a third party proceeding ought to be disposed of
by a separate proceeding, the court may so order.







Consolidation



(8)

Proceedings may be consolidated at any time by order of the court or
may be ordered to be tried at the same time or on the same day.







Misjoinder or nonjoinder of parties



(9)

A proceeding must not be defeated by reason of the misjoinder or
nonjoinder of a party and the court may deal with the matter in
controversy so far as it affects the rights and interests of the
parties before it.




Rule 22-6 — Change of Lawyer






Change of lawyer



(1)

A party to a proceeding




(a)

may change lawyers,




(b)

having acted on his or her own behalf, may engage a lawyer to act, or




(c)

having been represented by a lawyer, may discharge the lawyer and act
on his or her own behalf,


but until copies of notice of the change in Form 110 or 111 have been
filed and served on the other parties of record, the other parties are
entitled to proceed on the basis that there has been no change of
representation or address for service.







Order that lawyer has ceased to act



(2)

If




(a)

a lawyer for a party has died, cannot be found or for any reason is
unable to practise, and




(b)

the party has not given notice of change of lawyer or of intention to
act in person in accordance with subrule (1),


the court, on the application of any other party of record, may order
that the lawyer has ceased to be the lawyer of the first mentioned
party.







Order on application of lawyer



(3)

If a lawyer who has acted for a party to a proceeding has ceased to
act and the party has not given a notice of change in accordance with
subrule (1), the court, on the application of the lawyer, may declare
that the lawyer has ceased to be the lawyer acting for the party and,
if applicable,




(a)

may declare that the lawyer's office is not the address for service of
the party and give directions as to a new address for service, and




(b)

may declare that the lawyer's fax number or e-mail address may no
longer be used for service and give directions for a new fax number or
e-mail address for service.







Notice of withdrawal



(4)

As an alternative to proceeding under subrule (3), a lawyer who has
ceased to act for a party who has not given a notice of change under
subrule (1) may serve a notice of intention to withdraw in Form 112 on
that party and on the other parties of record.







Filing of objection



(5)

If a party on whom a notice of intention to withdraw is served under
subrule (4) wishes to object to the withdrawal, the party must, within
7 days after service,




(a)

file in the registry an objection in Form 113, and




(b)

serve on the lawyer a copy of the filed objection.







Procedure if no objection filed



(6)

A lawyer who serves a notice of intention to withdraw under subrule
(4) on all parties of record to a proceeding may file a notice of
withdrawal of lawyer in Form 114 if no objection, notice of change of
lawyer or notice of intention to act in person is filed within 7 days
after service of the notice of intention to withdraw.







Service of notice of withdrawal



(7)

If a lawyer files a notice of withdrawal of lawyer under subrule (6),
the lawyer ceases to be the party's lawyer when the notice has been
served on all parties of record.







Service of documents after withdrawal



(8)

After a lawyer ceases under subrule (7) to be a party's lawyer, the
party's address for service is, until that address is changed under
Rule 4-1 (3), the address set out in the notice of withdrawal of
lawyer filed under subrule (6) of this rule.







Procedure if objection filed



(9)

If, within the 7 day period referred to in subrule (6), an objection
is filed in the registry, the lawyer may apply, on notice to each
party who has filed an objection, for an order under subrule (3).







Substituted service



(10)

If personal service of a notice of intention to withdraw cannot be
made in accordance with Rule 4-3 (2) on a party for whom the lawyer
acts, the lawyer may apply for an order under Rule 4-4 allowing
service by an alternative method.







Service of copy of order



(11)

An applicant who obtains an order under subrule (2) or (3) must serve
a copy of the entered order on all parties of record and, until it is
served, a party is entitled to proceed on the basis that there has
been no change of lawyer or address for service.




Rule 22-7 — Effect of Non-compliance






Non-compliance with rules



(1)

Unless the court otherwise orders, a failure to comply with these
Supreme Court Civil Rules must be treated as an irregularity and does
not nullify




(a)

a proceeding,




(b)

a step taken in the proceeding, or




(c)

any document or order made in the proceeding.







Powers of court



(2)

Subject to subrules (3) and (4), if there has been a failure to comply
with these Supreme Court Civil Rules, the court may




(a)

set aside a proceeding, either wholly or in part,




(b)

set aside any step taken in the proceeding, or a document or order
made in the proceeding,




(c)

allow an amendment to be made under Rule 6-1,




(d)

dismiss the proceeding or strike out the response to civil claim and
pronounce judgment, or




(e)

make any other order it considers will further the object of these
Supreme Court Civil Rules.








Proceeding must not be set aside for incorrect originating pleading




(3)

The court must not wholly set aside a proceeding on the ground that
the proceeding was required to be started by an originating pleading
other than the one employed.








Application to set aside for irregularity




(4)

An application for an order under subrule (2) (a), (b) or (d) must not
be granted unless the application is made




(a)

within a reasonable time, and




(b)

before the applicant has taken a fresh step after knowledge of the
irregularity.








Consequences of certain non-compliance




(5)

Without limiting any other power of the court under these Supreme
Court Civil Rules, if a person, contrary to these Supreme Court Civil
Rules and without lawful excuse,




(a)

refuses or neglects to obey a subpoena or to attend at the time and
place appointed for his or her examination for discovery,




(b)

refuses to be sworn or to answer any question put to him or her,




(c)

refuses or neglects to produce or permit to be inspected any document
or other property,




(d)

refuses or neglects to answer interrogatories or to make discovery of
documents, or




(e)

refuses or neglects to attend for or submit to a medical examination,

then



(f)

if the person is the plaintiff or petitioner, a present officer of a
corporate plaintiff or petitioner or a partner in or manager of a
partnership plaintiff or petitioner, the court may dismiss the
proceeding, and




(g)

if the person is a defendant, respondent or third party, a present
officer of a corporate defendant, respondent or third party or a
partner in or manager of a partnership defendant, respondent or third
party, the court may order the proceeding to continue as if no
response to civil claim or response to petition had been filed.








Failure to comply with direction of court




(6)

If a person, without lawful excuse, refuses or neglects to comply with
a direction of the court, the court may make an order under subrule
(5) (f) or (g).







Dismissal for want of prosecution



(7)

If, on application by a party, it appears to the court that there is
want of prosecution in a proceeding, the court may order that the
proceeding be dismissed.




Rule 22-8 — Contempt of Court






Power of court to punish



(1)

The power of the court to punish contempt of court must be exercised
by an order of committal or by imposition of a fine or both.







Corporation in contempt



(2)

If a corporation wilfully disobeys an order against the corporation,
the order may be enforced by one or more of the following:




(a)

imposition of a fine on the corporation;




(b)

committal of one or more directors or officers of the corporation;




(c)

imposition of a fine on one or more directors or officers of the
corporation.







Security



(3)

Instead of or in addition to making an order of committal or imposing
a fine, the court may order a person to give security for the person's
good behaviour.







Certain acts as contempt



(4)

A person who is guilty of an act or omission described in Rule 12-5
(25) or 22-7 (5), in addition to being subject to any consequences
prescribed by those rules, is guilty of contempt of court and subject
to the court's power to punish contempt of court.







If person may be guilty of contempt



(5)

If the court is of the opinion that a person may be guilty of contempt
of court, it may order, by warrant in Form 115 directed to a sheriff
or other officer of the court or to a peace officer, that the person
be apprehended and brought before the court.







Power of court after apprehension



(6)

If a person referred to in subrule (5) is apprehended and brought
before the court, the court in a summary manner may adjudge the
innocence or guilt of the person and punish the person for the
contempt, if any, or may give the directions it thinks fit for the
determination of the person's innocence or guilt and punishment.








If corporation may be guilty of contempt




(7)

If the court is of the opinion that a corporation may be guilty of
contempt of court, it may order, by its warrant in Form 115 directed
to a sheriff or other officer of the court or to a peace officer, that
any director, officer or employee of the corporation be apprehended
and brought before the court.







Power of court after apprehension



(8)

If a director, officer or employee referred to in subrule (7) is
apprehended and brought before the court, the court in a summary
manner may adjudge the innocence or guilt of the corporation and
punish the corporation for the contempt, if any, or may give the
directions it thinks fit for the determination of the corporation's
innocence or guilt and the punishment to be imposed.







Release of apprehended person



(9)

The court may order the release of a person apprehended under subrule
(5) or (7) on receiving an undertaking in Form 116 from that person.







Order for release



(10)

A release order under subrule (9) must be in Form 117.







Proceeding for contempt



(11)

A party applying for an order for contempt must serve the alleged
contemnor with a copy of the filed notice of application and all filed
affidavits in support of it at least 7 days before the hearing of the
application.







Affidavit



(12)

An application under subrule (11) must be supported by affidavit
setting out the conduct alleged to be contempt of court.







Hearing



(13)

The court may give directions as to the mode of hearing the
application, including an order that the matter be transferred to the
trial list under Rule 22-1 (7) (d).







Service of order not necessary



(14)

If the court is satisfied that a person has actual notice of the terms
of an order of the court, it may find the person guilty of contempt
for disobedience of the order, even though the order has not been
served on the person.







Suspension of punishment



(15)

The court at any time may direct that the punishment for contempt be
suspended for the period or on the terms or conditions the court may
specify.







Discharge of person



(16)

The court, on application by or on behalf of a person committed to
prison for contempt, may discharge that person even though the period
of the committal may not have elapsed.







Weekly review of person in custody



(17)

If the court orders a person be committed without specifying in days,
weeks or months the period of the committal, the sheriff must bring
that person before the court at intervals of not more than 7 days, in
order that the court may review the committal and determine whether
relief as set out in subrule (15) or (16) should be granted.




Rule 22-9 — Vexatious Litigants







Leave to file pleading, application or other document




(1)

If an order has been made that a person must not, without leave of the
court, start a proceeding or file an application or other document in
an existing proceeding, the person may apply for leave by filing a
requisition in Form 117.1 to which is attached




(a)

a copy of the pleading, application or document which the person seeks
leave to file, and




(b)

a copy of the order requiring the person to obtain leave of the court.

[en. B.C. Reg. 239/2023, Sch. 1, s. 5.]






Requisition need not be served



(2)

Subject to subrule (3), a person applying for leave under subrule (1)
need not serve the requisition referred to in subrule (1) on any other
person.

[en. B.C. Reg. 239/2023, Sch. 1, s. 5.]






Powers of the court



(3)

On an application for leave under subrule (1), the court may do one or
more of the following:




(a)

grant or refuse the request for leave;




(b)

require that the person or lawyer appear in person to speak to the
application, with or without notice to any other person;




(c)

make any order or give any other directions the court considers will
further the object of these Supreme Court Civil Rules.

[en. B.C. Reg. 239/2023, Sch. 1, s. 5.]



Part 23 — Court and Registry Matters



Rule 23-1 — Registry Operations






Copy of document filed in registry



(1)

Unless otherwise provided by an enactment, a person may, on payment of
the proper fees, obtain from the registry a copy of a document on file
in a proceeding.







When registry open



(2)

Except on Saturdays, holidays and those days that are prescribed by
the Lieutenant Governor in Council as holidays for the Public Service
of British Columbia, the registry is to be kept open to the public for
the transaction of business from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m.







Hours of registrar



(3)

The hours of attendance by a registrar and the registry staff are from
8:30 a.m. until 4:30 p.m.







Lunch hours



(4)

If a registry has insufficient staff to allow continuous staff
attendance at the lunch hour, the Chief Justice may, in writing,
authorize that registry to close.







Use of seal



(5)

In each registry, the seal of the court must be stamped on every




(a)

notice of civil claim, and




(b)

other document requiring a seal

issued from or filed in that registry.






Name of registry



(6)

The name of the registry must be written or stamped on the face of
every document issued from or filed or recorded in that registry.







Signature of registrar



(7)

If the signature or endorsement of a registrar is required on a
document, the document is deemed to have been signed or endorsed by
the registrar if the document is signed or endorsed by a person
appointed for that purpose by the registrar.








Business not to be conducted out of office hours




(8)

In case of urgency, the court may order that a registry be opened for
the purpose of commencing a proceeding or for some other good reason.







Request to registrar by requisition



(9)

Unless these Supreme Court Civil Rules otherwise provide, if a person
wishes a registrar to perform some act under these Supreme Court Civil
Rules,




(a)

the person must make the request by requisition in Form 17 unless
these Supreme Court Civil Rules otherwise provide, and




(b)

the registrar may discard the requisition after the required act has
been done.







Incapacity of judge



(10)

If an application ought to be made to, or any jurisdiction ought to be
exercised by, the judge by whom a proceeding has been tried or partly
tried, or heard or partly heard, then, if that judge dies or ceases to
be a judge of the court during or after the trial or hearing, or if
for any other reason it is impossible or inconvenient for that judge
to act in the proceeding, the Chief Justice or next senior judge of
the court may, either by a special order or by a general order,
nominate some other judge to whom the application may be made or by
whom the jurisdiction may be exercised.







Powers of substituted judge



(11)

Without limiting subrule (10), the other judge nominated under that
subrule may




(a)

order that the proceeding be restored to the proper registry for
retrial or rehearing,




(b)

if, on the original trial or hearing, evidence was given orally,
direct that the retrial or rehearing be on




(i)

an official transcript of that evidence,




(ii)

transcript, evidence given orally and evidence given by affidavit,




(iii)

new evidence, or




(iv)

any other basis


as in the judge's opinion the circumstances of the case require, and




(c)

dispose of the costs of the original trial or hearing and of the costs
of furnishing any copies of the transcript of the evidence, or refer
the question of costs to the judge presiding at the retrial or
rehearing.

[am. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 1, s. 19.]






Powers of presiding judge



(12)

Directions for a retrial or rehearing that include a direction for the
use of the transcript of the evidence do not limit or restrict the
power of the judge presiding at the retrial or rehearing to permit in
the judge's discretion the recalling of any witness called at the
original trial or hearing, or to receive other or additional evidence.

[am. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 1, s. 19.]






Transfers



(13)

At any time after a proceeding is started, the court may on
application order the proceeding to be transferred from the registry
in which it is being conducted to any other registry of the court for
any or all purposes.




Rule 23-2 — Fax Filing






Application



(1)

This rule applies only to those proceedings that are filed at the
Chilliwack, Cranbrook, Dawson Creek, Kamloops, Kelowna, Nelson,
Penticton, Prince George, Prince Rupert, Rossland, Salmon Arm,
Smithers, Terrace, Vernon or Williams Lake registry of the court.

[am. B.C. Reg. 321/2021, Sch. 1, s. 7.]







Document may be submitted for filing by fax




(2)

Subject to this rule, a person wishing to file a document may transmit
that document by fax to the applicable court registry.







Means of transmission



(3)

A document may be transmitted by fax to a registry for filing if




(a)

the document is transmitted to the appropriate registry at the fax
number designated for that registry by a practice direction of the
Chief Justice,




(b)

the document is




(i)

sent under cover of a fax cover sheet in Form 118, and




(ii)

accompanied by payment of the applicable filing fees, and




(c)

the document is not one referred to in subrule (4).







Application of this rule



(4)

The following documents may not be transmitted by fax to a registry
for filing:




(a)

any document pertaining to the following:




(i)

probate;




(ii)

adoption;




(iii)

reciprocal enforcement of orders under the

Court Order Enforcement Act

;




(b)

any of the following documents:




(i)

a certified copy of any document being filed for enforcement purposes;




(ii)

an application record or a petition record;




(iii)

a trial record;




(iv)

a proof of marriage from a foreign jurisdiction;




(v)

a certificate of judgment;




(vi)

a certificate of pending litigation;




(vii)

an affidavit of service submitted for filing in support of a default
order;




(c)

any of the following documents, unless their submission by fax is
authorized by the Manager, Supreme Court Scheduling of the receiving
registry:




(i)

a trial certificate;




(ii)

a notice of trial;




(iii)

and (iv) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 119/2010, Sch. A, s. 37 (b).]




(v)

a requisition to reset a hearing or trial;




(vi)

a notice of case planning conference in Form 19;




(d)

a document that, with the fax cover sheet, exceeds 30 pages in length,
unless its submission by fax is authorized by a registrar.

[am. B.C. Reg. 119/2010, Sch. A, s. 37.]






When a document is filed



(5)

A document that is transmitted by fax to a registry for filing in
accordance with subrule (3) and that is approved for filing by the
registrar is filed as follows:




(a)

the document is filed on the day it is received by the registry if any
of the document, other than the fax cover sheet, is received at the
fax machine of the registry at or before 4 p.m. on a day on which the
registry is open for business;




(b)

the document is filed on the next day on which the registry is open
for business in any other case.







Confirmation of filing



(6)

After a document is received at the fax machine of the registry, a
registrar must do the following in accordance with subrule (7):




(a)

if the document was transmitted for filing in accordance with subrule
(3) and was approved for filing by the registrar, provide to the
person identified as the submitting party on the fax cover sheet




(i)

confirmation of the fees paid, and




(ii)

the first page of the filed document, bearing the registry stamp and
file number;




(b)

if the document was not transmitted for filing in accordance with
subrule (3), or was not approved for filing by the registrar, provide
to the person identified as the submitting party on the fax cover
sheet




(i)

a notice that the document has not been filed and the reasons for
non-acceptance, and




(ii)

the first page of the document.







Confirmation of filing



(7)

For the purposes of subrule (6), a registrar may provide the documents
referred to in that subrule to the person identified as the submitting
party on the fax cover sheet




(a)

by transmitting those documents by fax to the fax number shown on the
fax cover sheet as the fax number for the submitting party, or




(b)

in any other manner the registrar considers appropriate.








Original of document may be required by court




(8)

The court may require that the original of a document that has been
filed under this rule be produced.




Rule 23-3 — Electronic Filing






Definitions



(1)

In this rule:



"electronic document"

means a document that has been transmitted for filing electronically;



"electronic services agreement"

means an agreement referred to in subrule (3);



"registered user"

means a person who has entered into an electronic services agreement.








This rule prevails in event of conflict




(2)

In the event of a conflict between this rule and another rule, this
rule applies.







Electronic services agreement



(3)

A person wishing to file documents in a registry under this rule must




(a)

enter into an agreement with the Court Services Branch of the Ministry
of Attorney General respecting the terms and conditions under which
those filings may be made, and




(b)

submit documents for filing in accordance with that agreement.


[am. B.C. Regs. 27/2013, Sch. 2, s. 13; 99/2018, Sch. 2, s. 16.]







Means of transmission



(4)

A registered user may electronically transmit a document to a registry
for filing if




(a)

the document is accompanied by payment of the applicable filing fees,
and




(b)

the document is not one referred to in subrule (5).







Application of this rule



(5)

The following documents may not be transmitted for filing
electronically:




(a)

any document pertaining to the reciprocal enforcement of orders under
the

Court Order Enforcement Act

;




(b)

any of the following documents:




(i)

a certified copy of any document being filed for enforcement purposes;




(ii)

an application record, a petition record or a hearing record;




(iii)

a trial record;




(iv)

a proof of marriage from a foreign jurisdiction, unless such proof is
issued electronically;




(v)

a certificate of judgment;




(vi)

a certificate of pending litigation;




(vii)

an affidavit, filed under Rule 12-5 (59), that constitutes the
evidence in chief of a witness;




(viii)

an originally signed version of a physical will, as defined in Rule
25-1 (1).


[am. B.C. Regs. 120/2014, s. 6; 115/2019, s. 3; 250/2021, s. 1.]







Affidavits and other signed documents



(6)

An affidavit or other signed document that is being filed for
evidentiary purposes, if submitted for filing electronically, must
clearly identify the signatory and must be accompanied by a statement,
in Form 119, of the lawyer acting for the person on whose behalf the
document is submitted for filing or, if that person is unrepresented,
by a statement of that person, in Form 119, indicating that




(a)

the original paper version of the document appears to bear an original
signature of the person identified as the signatory and the person
making the Form 119 statement has no reason to believe that the
signature placed on the document is not the signature of the
identified signatory, and




(b)

the version of the document that is being submitted for filing
electronically appears to be a true copy of the original paper version
of the document and the person making the Form 119 statement has no
reason to believe that it is not a true copy of the original paper
version.







Retention of documents



(7)

A person who, under subrule (6), submits a document for filing in a
proceeding must




(a)

keep the original paper version of the document until the earliest of




(i)

the date on which the proceeding, including any appeals, is finally
disposed of,




(ii)

the date on which the appeal period for that proceeding has expired if
no notice of appeal respecting the proceeding has been filed within
that period, and




(iii)

the date on which a registrar requests that the original paper version
be filed, and




(b)

if a request is made under paragraph (a) (iii), file the original
paper version promptly after that request is made.







Conversion of documents



(8)

If a document in paper form is filed with a registrar, the registrar
may convert the document into electronic form and, in that event, the
registrar must




(a)

store the conversion in a computer or in another electronic system
that the registrar considers appropriate, and




(b)

retain the paper form of the document.







Inspection of original documents



(9)

A person who submits a document referred to in subrule (6) for filing
electronically must, on request, make the original paper version of
that document available for inspection by other parties or their
lawyer and by the court.







Requisition



(10)

A person who is entitled to inspect a document under subrule (9) may,
if that inspection is denied, file a requisition in Form 17 to request
that the original paper version of the document be filed and, promptly
after receipt of that requisition, the registrar must make a request
under subrule (7) (a) (iii).







Application of Rule 22-2



(11)

Rule 22-2 continues to apply to affidavits filed under this rule, but,
in the event of a conflict between this rule and Rule 22-2 in respect
of those affidavits, this rule prevails.








Electronic authentication deemed a signature




(12)

For the purposes of these Supreme Court Civil Rules other than subrule
(6) of this rule, a document is deemed to have been originally signed
if it has been electronically authenticated in the manner contemplated
by the applicable electronic services agreement.







Filing of documents



(13)

If a document that has been transmitted for filing electronically is
accepted for filing by a registrar, the document is deemed to have
been filed as follows:




(a)

if the document is received by the registry at or before 4 p.m. on a
day that is not a Saturday or a holiday, the document is deemed to be
filed on the day of receipt;




(b)

if the document is received by the registry on a Saturday or holiday
or after 4 p.m. on any other day, the document is deemed to be filed
on the next day that is not a Saturday or a holiday.







Electronic acceptance



(14)

After a document that has been transmitted for filing electronically
is accepted for filing by a registrar, the registrar must affix an
electronic version of the registry stamp to the document and, after
that, must provide a copy of the stamped electronic document, in the
manner contemplated by the electronic services agreement, to the
person who transmitted the document for filing.







Sealing of notice of civil claim



(15)

After a registrar provides an electronic acceptance of a notice of
civil claim under subrule (14), the notice of civil claim is deemed to
have been sealed by the registrar.








Public access to documents filed electronically




(16)

After a document has been filed under this rule, a person who is
otherwise entitled to view and obtain a copy of the document may, on
payment of the proper fee,




(a)

obtain from the registry a paper copy of the document,




(b)

if a public access computer terminal is available in the registry,
view the document on that terminal or, if the document is not
available for viewing on that terminal, view on that terminal the
information about the document or its contents, if any, that is
available on that terminal, or




(c)

if the person is a registered user, access the document in accordance
with the terms of the electronic services agreement entered into by
that person.







Service of documents



(17)

A document that may or must be served on a person may, if it is an
electronic document, be served on the person as follows:




(a)

if the person has provided an e-mail address for service, by e-mailing
it to that person's e-mail address for service;




(b)

if the lawyer for the person has provided an e-mail address for
service, by e-mailing it to that lawyer's e-mail address for service;




(c)

if paragraph (a) or (b) applies and, under these Supreme Court Civil
Rules, multiple copies of the document are to be served, the serving
party need serve only a single electronic copy of the document.







If document does not reach a person



(18)

Even though a document has been served in accordance with subrule
(17), a person may show, on an application to set aside the
consequences of default, on an application for an extension of time or
on an application in support of a request for an adjournment, that the
document




(a)

did not come to the person's notice,




(b)

did come to the person's notice later than when it was served or
effectively served, or




(c)

was incomplete or illegible.




Rule 23-4 — Money in Court






Interpretation



(1)

In this rule, unless the context otherwise requires:



"financial institution"

means a bank, credit union or trust company designated by the
minister;


"funds"
means any money that has been paid into or deposited in court, except
money paid




(a)

under the

Court Order Enforcement Act

,




(b)

for security for costs,




(c)

in satisfaction of a claim, or




(d)

for bail;


"minister"
means the Minister of Finance;


"securities"
means any bonds, stocks, shares, debentures or other securities.







Deposit of funds



(2)

All funds must be deposited promptly in a financial institution by a
registrar and must, after that, be paid by the registrar to the
minister, accompanied by




(a)

a certified copy of the order directing payment in, or




(b)

if the funds have been paid into court without an order, a statement
showing the particulars of the payment in.







Deposit of securities



(3)

All securities deposited in court must be accompanied




(a)

by a certified copy of the order directing deposit in court and
listing the securities, or




(b)

if the securities are deposited without an order listing the
securities, by a statement listing the securities.







Transmission of securities



(4)

Promptly after securities are deposited in court, a registrar must
transmit those securities to the minister




(a)

by registered mail, insured to the extent of the securities' par
value, or




(b)

through a financial institution,


together with a certified copy of the order or the statement.







Payment out of court



(5)

Funds and securities must be paid out or delivered, on authority of an
order of the court, on production of a certified copy of the order or
authorization by a registrar for payment out, and must be paid or
delivered to the person named in the order or authorization.







Interest



(6)

All funds held in court draw interest, payable by the minister, for
each 6 month period after December 31, 1992, at 2% below the prime
lending rate of the banker to the government on January 1 and July 1
respectively in each year, with interest to be compounded on January 1
and July 1 in each year.







No other interest payable



(7)

The interest paid under this rule is instead of any interest earned on
an investment made by the minister under subrule (10).







Calculation of interest



(8)

Interest under subrule (6) is payable on all funds up to $100 000 from
the first day of the month following payment into court until the last
day of the month before payment out of court, and on all funds in
excess of $100 000 from the date of payment into court until the date
of payment out.







Account



(9)

For the purpose of segregating the funds from other money held by the
minister, the minister must create an account in the treasury
designated "Investments,

Supreme Court Act

", and the funds held in this account




(a)

constitute a trust, and




(b)

must, at all times, be substantially equal to the funds held by the
minister under this rule.







Investments



(10)

The minister may




(a)

invest as the minister sees fit all or any part of the funds, and




(b)

convert securities into money.

[am. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 1, s. 20.]






Direction for payment out



(11)

If, by an order of the court, funds are directed to be dealt with,
delivered or paid out, the order is a direction to the minister to
that effect.








Deposit of other money paid into court




(12)

Money paid into court, other than funds, must be deposited by a
registrar in a financial institution and be paid out in accordance
with the existing practice of the court, but the registrar must pay to
the minister all moneys that have been on deposit for more than 2
years.







No interest on other funds



(13)

Money paid to the minister under this rule must be held by the
minister in the same manner as funds deposited under subrule (2),
except as to payment of interest.







Money for person under disability



(14)

In a proceeding in which a sum of money or a security is awarded to a
person under a disability, the court may, at or after the trial, order
that the whole or any part of the sum or the security be paid,




(a)

if the person is an infant, to the Public Guardian and Trustee in
trust for the infant, or




(b)

in any other case, into court to the credit of the person.







Payment out of money or security



(15)

If a sum of money or a security is paid into court under subrule (14)
(b), the sum or the security may be paid out of court as the court may
direct.







Payment in for infant



(16)

When money is paid into court to the credit of an infant, a copy of
the birth certificate of the infant, or other proof to the
satisfaction of a registrar of the name and date of birth of the
infant, must be filed, unless the registrar dispenses with the filing.







Payment out of money held for infant



(17)

In support of an application for payment out of money paid in under
subrule (16), the applicant must file a declaration in Form 120.




Rule 23-5 — Sittings and Hearings






Under direction of Chief Justice



(1)

The court must dispose of the business before it at the times and in
the places the Chief Justice directs.







Urgency



(2)

In case of urgency, an application may be made personally to a judge,
to an associate judge or to a registrar.

[am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3, s. 1.]






Hearing by communication medium



(3)

In case of urgency, or if the court or a registrar considers it
appropriate to do so, the court or the registrar, as the case may be,
may conduct a hearing and make an order or decision by telephone,
video conference or other communication medium.

[en. B.C. Reg. 65/2013, Sch. A, s. 3 (a).]






Court may direct method of attendance



(4)

On application by a party or on its own initiative, the court may
direct




(a)

that an application be heard in person or by way of telephone, video
conference or other communication medium, and




(b)

the manner in which the application is to be conducted.

[am. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 1, s. 21 (a).]







Registrar may direct method of attendance




(4.1)

On application by a party or on a registrar's own initiative, a
registrar may direct




(a)

that a hearing before a registrar be heard in person or by way of
telephone, video conference or other communication medium, and




(b)

the manner in which the hearing is to be conducted.


[en. B.C. Reg. 65/2013, Sch. A, s. 3 (b); am. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch.
1, s. 21 (a).]








Application must be made by requisition




(5)

An application under subrule (4) or (4.1) for a direction that an
application or a hearing before a registrar be heard in person or by
way of telephone, video conference or other communication medium must
be made by requisition in Form 20.1.

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 1, s. 21 (b).]



Rule 23-6 — Associate Judges, Registrars and Special Referees






Powers of an associate judge



(1)

Without limiting any other powers of an associate judge under these
Supreme Court Civil Rules, an associate judge hearing an application
has the powers of the court set out in Rules 8-5 (6) to (8) and 22-1
(2) to (8).

[am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3, s. 1.]






Associate judge as registrar



(2)

An associate judge has the powers and jurisdiction of a registrar
under these Supreme Court Civil Rules.

[am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3, s. 2.]






Repealed



(3)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 149/2013, s. 7.]







Hearing record



(3.1)

Before attending a registrar's hearing started by the filing of an
appointment, the person taking out the appointment (in this subrule
called the "applicant") must provide to the registry where the hearing
is to take place, no later than 4 p.m. on the business day that is one
full business day before the date set for the hearing, a hearing
record as follows:




(a)

the hearing record must be in a ring binder or in some other form of
secure binding;




(b)

the hearing record must contain, in consecutively numbered pages, or
separated by tabs, the following documents in the following order:




(i)

a title page bearing the style of proceeding and the names of the
lawyers, if any, for the applicant and the persons served with the
appointment (in this subrule called the "respondents");




(ii)

an index;




(iii)

a copy of the filed appointment and of every document that, under
these rules, is required to be filed with that appointment;




(iv)

a copy of the affidavit of service of the appointment, which copy must
not include the exhibits to the affidavit;




(v)

if the appointment is to settle an order under Rule 13-1, a copy of
the reasons for judgment on which the order is based, a transcript of
the order made or a copy of the clerk's notes from the hearing;




(vi)

if the appointment is to assess costs under Rule 14-1, a copy of the
entered order for costs;




(vii)

if the appointment has been filed under Rule 18-1, a copy of the
entered order referring the matter to the registrar;




(viii)

a copy of every filed affidavit and pleading, and of every other
document, that is to be relied on at the hearing;




(c)

the hearing record may contain




(i)

a draft of the proposed report or certificate, and




(ii)

a list of authorities;




(d)

the hearing record must not contain




(i)

written argument,




(ii)

copies of authorities, including case law, legislation, legal articles
or excerpts from text books, or




(iii)

any other documents unless they are included with the consent of the
applicant and the respondents.

[en. B.C. Reg. 65/2013, Sch. A, s. 4.]






Dealings with hearing record



(3.2)

Rule 8-1 (17), (19) and (20) applies to a hearing record and, for that
purpose, a reference in Rule 8-1 (17), (19) or (20) to "application
record" is a reference to a hearing record and a reference to an
"applicant" and an "application respondent" is a reference to the
applicant and respondent to the registrar's hearing respectively and a
reference to the "hearing of the application" is a reference to the
hearing of the registrar's hearing.

[en. B.C. Reg. 65/2013, Sch. A, s. 4.]







Registrar's powers at registrar's hearing




(4)

A registrar may, in respect of any registrar's hearing, whether before
that registrar or any other registrar,




(a)

extend, shorten or limit the time for any step in the registrar's
hearing,




(b)

exercise the powers that, under Rules 22-1 (2) and (3) and 23-5 (4),
may be exercised by the court,




(c)

exercise the powers set out in Rule 18-1 (5), and




(d)

direct the parties to attend a pre-hearing conference.

[am. B.C. Reg. 112/2012, Sch. A, s. 5.]







Registrar's directions at pre-hearing conference




(5)

Without limiting Rule 18-1 (5), a registrar conducting a pre-hearing
conference may give directions for the conduct of any registrar's
hearing, whether or not that registrar's hearing is before the
registrar conducting the pre-hearing conference, including, without
limitation, directions respecting the following:




(a)

the production of documents;




(b)

oral examinations for discovery;




(c)

service of notices to admit;




(d)

service of experts' reports;




(e)

service of witness lists;




(f)

any other matter that may assist in the just and efficient
determination of the issues.







Reference by associate judge to judge



(6)

If a matter appears to an associate judge to be proper for the
decision of a judge, the associate judge may refer it to a judge, and
the judge may either dispose of the matter or refer it back to the
associate judge with directions.

[am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3, ss. 1 and 6.]







Reference by registrar to judge or associate judge




(7)

If a matter appears to a registrar to be proper for the decision of a
judge or associate judge, the registrar may refer it to a judge or
associate judge, and the judge or associate judge may either dispose
of the matter or refer it back to the registrar with directions.

[am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3, s. 5.]






Repealed



(8)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 104/2019, s. 4.]







Notice of appeal



(8.1)

An appeal from an order of a decision of an associate judge, registrar
or special referee must be brought by filing a notice of appeal in
Form 121 within 14 days after the order or decision is made.


[en. B.C. Reg. 104/2019, s. 4; am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3, s. 1.]








Service of notice of appeal and appellant's

statement of argument




(8.2)

A copy of the filed notice of appeal and of the appellant's statement
of argument, in Form 121.1, must be served on the respondent(s) within
7 days after notice of appeal being filed.

[en. B.C. Reg. 104/2019, s. 4.]






Notice of interest



(8.3)

A respondent who wishes to oppose the appeal must file a notice of
interest in Form 70.

[en. B.C. Reg. 104/2019, s. 4.]







Service of notice of interest and respondent's statement of argument




(8.4)

A copy of the notice of interest and of the respondent's statement of
argument in the form set out in Form 121.2 must be delivered to the
appellant within 14 days of the notice of appeal and appellant's
statement of argument being served.

[en. B.C. Reg. 104/2019, s. 4.]







Transcript of reasons for judgment or decision




(8.5)

If the order or decision from which the appeal is taken was pronounced
orally rather than issued in writing, the appellant must order a
transcript of the presider's reasons for judgment or decision within
14 days after the order or decision is issued.

[en. B.C. Reg. 104/2019, s. 4.]






Transcript of oral evidence



(8.6)

If the appeal is taken from an order or decision following a hearing
in which oral evidence is taken, in addition to a transcript of the
reasons for judgment or decision, the appellant must order a
transcript of the oral evidence within 14 days after the order or
decision is issued.

[en. B.C. Reg. 104/2019, s. 4.]






Date and time of hearing of appeal



(8.7)

If the hearing of an appeal will require more than 2 hours, the date
and time of the hearing must be fixed by Supreme Court Scheduling, and
if the hearing of the appeal will require 2 hours or less, it may be
set on the chambers list on a date not before the expiry of the time
for delivery of the respondent's notice of interest and statement of
argument.

[en. B.C. Reg. 104/2019, s. 4.]






Appeal record



(8.8)

The appellant must provide to the registry where the hearing of the
appeal is to take place, no earlier than 9 a.m. and no later than 4
p.m. on the business day that is one full business day before the date
set for the hearing, an appeal record as follows:




(a)

the appeal record must be in a ring binder or in some other form of
secure binding;




(b)

the appeal record must contain




(i)

a title page,




(ii)

an index,




(iii)

a copy of the notice of appeal,




(iv)

a copy of the order of the associate judge or decision of the
registrar or special referee that is subject to the appeal,




(v)

a copy of the written reasons for judgment of the associate judge, or
reasons for decision of the registrar or special referee, or, if the
reasons were given orally, a transcript of the reasons,




(vi)

a copy of the notice of application and application response, and for
registrars' appeals, a copy of the appointment,




(vii)

copies of any affidavits that were before the associate judge,
registrar or special referee that will be relied on for the appeal,




(viii)

a transcript of any oral evidence heard by the associate judge,
registrar or special referee to be relied on for the appeal,




(ix)

the appellant's statement of argument, not to exceed 10 pages,
and




(x)

the respondent's statement of argument, not to exceed 10 pages.


[en. B.C. Reg. 104/2019, s. 4; am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3, s. 6.]







Appeal record to be returned



(8.9)

Unless the court otherwise orders, the appellant must retrieve the
appeal record at the conclusion of the hearing or, if the appeal is
adjourned to a date later than the following business day, after the
hearing is adjourned.

[en. B.C. Reg. 104/2019, s. 4.]







Abridgement or modification of timelines

and documents required on appeal




(8.10)

If the circumstances of an appeal require, the timelines and document
filing requirements may be abridged, extended or modified by order
under Rule 22-4 (2).

[en. B.C. Reg. 104/2019, s. 4.]






Repealed



(9)-(10)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 104/2019, s. 4.]







Appeal not to act as stay



(11)

An appeal from the decision of an associate judge or registrar is not
a stay of proceeding unless so ordered by the court or the associate
judge.

[am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3, ss. 1 and 6.]



Part 23.1 — Method of Attendance and Application Record Pilot Projects



Rule 23.1-1 — Method of Attendance Pilot Project






Method of attendance



(1)

Without limiting Rule 23-5 (2), (3), (4) or (4.1), the Chief Justice
may direct that a class of applications, conferences or hearings may
or must be attended by way of telephone, video conference or other
communication medium.

[en. B.C. Reg. 236/2022, Sch. 1, s. 1.]






Directions may be different



(2)

A direction made under subrule (1) may be different for different
registries, types of applications, conferences or hearings, classes of
persons or circumstances.

[en. B.C. Reg. 236/2022, Sch. 1, s. 1.]







Application to change method of attendance




(3)

Despite a direction made under subrule (1), on application by a party
or on its own initiative, the court may order that an application,
conference or hearing be attended in person.

[en. B.C. Reg. 236/2022, Sch. 1, s. 1.]







Application must be made by requisition




(4)

An application under subrule (3) for an order that an application,
conference or hearing be attended in person must be made by
requisition in Form 20.1.


[en. B.C. Reg. 236/2022, Sch. 1, s. 1; am. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 1,
s. 22.]







Directions apply



(5)

A direction made under subrule (1) applies despite any provision of
these Supreme Court Civil Rules that requires in-person attendance.

[en. B.C. Reg. 236/2022, Sch. 1, s. 1.]



Rule 23.1-2 — Electronic Transmission of Application Record Pilot
Project







Electronic transmission of application record




(1)

Despite Rule 23-3 (4) (b) and (5) (b) (ii), the Chief Justice may
direct that the application record for an application in a class of
applications may or must be transmitted electronically to a registry.

[en. B.C. Reg. 236/2022, Sch. 1, s. 1.]






Directions may be different



(2)

A direction made under subrule (1) may be different for different
registries, types of applications, classes of persons or
circumstances.

[en. B.C. Reg. 236/2022, Sch. 1, s. 1.]






Application of other rules



(3)

Rule 8-1 (15) (a) and (d), (19) and (20) does not apply to an
application record that is transmitted electronically.

[en. B.C. Reg. 236/2022, Sch. 1, s. 1.]



Part 24 — Transition



Rule 24-1 — Transitional Pleadings






Definitions



(1)

In this Part:



"address for delivery"

,
"appearance"
,

"requisition"

,

"statement of claim"

,

"statement of defence"

and

"writ of summons"

have the same meanings as they had in the former Supreme Court Rules;



"transitional proceeding"

means a proceeding that was started before July 1, 2010.








These rules apply to transitional proceedings




(2)

A transitional proceeding is deemed to be a proceeding started under
these Supreme Court Civil Rules.








Pleadings deemed to be a notice of civil claim




(3)

If the person who started a transitional proceeding did so by filing a
writ of summons or a writ of summons and statement of claim,




(a)

the person is deemed to be the plaintiff in the proceeding, and




(b)

the writ of summons is, or the writ of summons and statement of claim
collectively are, deemed to be the notice of civil claim in the
proceeding.








Requisition deemed to be a notice of civil claim




(4)

If the person who started a transitional proceeding did so by filing a
requisition,




(a)

the person is deemed to be the plaintiff in the proceeding, and




(b)

the requisition is deemed to be the notice of civil claim in the
proceeding.







Petition



(5)

If the person who started a transitional proceeding did so by filing a
petition,




(a)

the person is deemed to be the petitioner in the proceeding, and




(b)

the petition is deemed to be the petition in the proceeding.








Appearance and statement of defence deemed to be a response to civil
claim




(6)

If a person filed, in a transitional proceeding referred to in subrule
(3) or (4), an appearance with or without a statement of defence,
statement of defence to counterclaim or statement of defence to third
party notice, as the case may be,




(a)

the person is deemed to be a defendant, defendant by way of
counterclaim or third party, as the case may be, in the proceeding,
and




(b)

the appearance is, or, if the person filed both an appearance and a
statement of defence, statement of defence to counterclaim or
statement of defence to third party notice, as the case may be, the
filed documents collectively are, deemed to be a response to civil
claim, response to counterclaim or response to third party notice, as
the case may be, in the proceeding.








Appearance deemed to be a response to petition




(7)

If a person filed, in a transitional proceeding referred to in subrule
(5), an appearance,




(a)

the person is deemed to be a petition respondent, within the meaning
of Rule 16-1, in the proceeding, and




(b)

the appearance is deemed to be a response to petition in the
proceeding.







Other pleadings



(8)

If a person filed, in a transitional proceeding, a counterclaim, third
party notice or reply, that document is deemed to be a pleading in the
proceeding.







Unserved writ of summons



(9)

Unless the court otherwise orders, if, before July 1, 2010, a person
filed a writ of summons, with or without a statement of claim, and
that document has not, or those documents have not, been served on a
person named as a defendant in the transitional proceeding started by
that filing, Rule 3-2 applies to the filed document or documents.







Demand for amendment



(10)

A party to a proceeding referred to in this rule may, by demand in
Form 122, demand that a document that is deemed under this rule to be
a pleading, petition or response to petition be amended by the party
who filed it to make it accord with these Supreme Court Civil Rules.







Party must amend



(11)

If a demand is served under subrule (10), the party on whom the demand
is served must, within 21 days after service, amend the deemed
pleading, petition or response to petition to make it accord with
these Supreme Court Civil Rules, and that amendment does not
constitute an amendment for the purposes of Rule 6-1 (1) (a).







Failure to amend



(12)

If a demand is served under subrule (10) of this rule and the party on
whom the demand is served does not make the amendments required under
subrule (11) within the period referred to in that subrule, the
demanding party may apply to the court for an order to strike the
deemed pleading, petition or response to petition of the party on whom
the demand is served.







Address for service



(13)

For the purposes of Rule 4-1 of these Supreme Court Civil Rules, until
a new address for service is provided for a party to a proceeding
referred to in this rule, the party is deemed to have, as an address
for service in the proceeding, that party's address for delivery under
the former Supreme Court Rules.







Step in ongoing proceeding



(14)

If a step in a proceeding is taken before July 1, 2010, the former
Supreme Court Rules apply to any right or obligation arising out of or
relating to that step if and to the extent that that right or
obligation is to have effect before September 1, 2010.







Trial management conference



(15)

If the trial of a transitional proceeding is scheduled to begin before
October 1, 2010,




(a)

a trial management conference may be held in the transitional
proceeding at any time, or




(b)

if a trial management conference was not required to be held in
relation to the transitional proceeding under the former Supreme Court
Rules, the trial may proceed without a trial management conference.







Court may decide



(16)

If there is any dispute in relation to the procedure to be applied to
or followed in a proceeding referred to in this rule, any party may
seek directions.





Contents

|



Parts 1 to 9

|



Parts 10 to 20

|

Parts 21 to 24 |


Part 25

|



Appendix A

|



Appendix A.1

|



Appendix B

|



Appendix C





