





View Complete Regulation






B.C. Reg. 296/97

Workers' Compensation Board


Deposited September 8, 1997

effective April 15, 1998






This consolidation is current to November 28, 2023.

See the

Cumulative B.C. Regulations Bulletin 2023


for amendments effective after November 28, 2023.





Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Workers Compensation Act


Occupational Health and Safety Regulation

[Last amended March 1, 2023 by B.C. Reg. 223/2022]


Part 6 — Substance Specific Requirements



Asbestos





Definitions




6.1


In this section and sections 6.2 to 6.32:



"asbestos-containing material"

means the following:




(a)

a manufactured article or other material, other than vermiculite
insulation, that would be determined to contain at least 0.5% asbestos
if tested in accordance with one of the following methods:




(i)

Asbestos, Chrysotile by XRD, Method 9000 (Issue 2, dated August 15,
1994) in the NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods, published by the
United States National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health,
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention;




(ii)

Asbestos (bulk) by PLM, Method 9002 (Issue 2, dated August 15, 1994)
in the NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods, published by the United
States National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention;




(iii)

Test Method for the Determination of Asbestos in Bulk Building
Materials (EPA/600/R-93/116, dated July 1993) published by the United
States Environmental Protection Agency;




(b)

vermiculite insulation that would be determined to contain any
asbestos if tested in accordance with the Research Method for Sampling
and Analysis of Fibrous Amphibole in Vermiculite Attic Insulation
(EPA/600/R-04/004, dated January 2004) published by the United States
Environmental Protection Agency;


"clean room"
means a room in a high risk decontamination facility which is used by
workers to change from street clothes into protective work clothing
and equipment prior to entering the designated work area;



"clearance air sampling"

means sampling to determine if the air inside a containment of a high
risk work activity is sufficiently free of asbestos fibre to permit
the dismantling of the containment;



"containment"

means an isolation system designed to effectively contain asbestos
fibre within a designated work area where asbestos-containing material
is handled, removed, encapsulated or enclosed, and includes a glove
bag;



"decontamination facility"

means a series of rooms constructed so as to allow a person to enter
and leave a containment without spreading asbestos fibre or waste
material beyond the designated work area;



"designated work area"

means an area for work with asbestos-containing material which is
restricted to access by authorized persons by warning signs and by
barricades, enclosures or other means of isolation, with due regard
for the level of risk;



"encapsulation"

means treatment of an asbestos-containing material or surface with a
sealant which penetrates the material and binds the fibres together;


"enclosure"
means isolation of asbestos-containing material from adjacent occupied
areas in a building by physical barriers such as gyproc, plywood, or
metal sheeting, to prevent the release of airborne asbestos fibres
into these areas;



"friable asbestos-containing material"

means asbestos-containing material that is crumbled or powdered or can
be crumbled or powdered by hand pressure;



"high risk work activity"

means a work activity that involves working with or in proximity to
asbestos-containing material if a high level of control is necessary
in respect of that activity to prevent exposure of a worker to
airborne asbestos fibre;



"low risk work activity"

means a work activity that involves working with or in proximity to
asbestos-containing material if, at the time the work activity is
being carried out, both of the following apply:




(a)

the asbestos-containing material is not being




(i)

cut, sanded, drilled, broken, ground down or otherwise fragmented, or




(ii)

disturbed such that the asbestos-containing material may release
airborne asbestos fibre;




(b)

it is not necessary to use personal protective equipment or
engineering controls in respect of that activity to prevent exposure
of a worker to airborne asbestos fibre;



"moderate risk work activity"

means a work activity, other than a high risk work activity, that
involves working with or in proximity to asbestos-containing material
if, at the time the work activity is being carried out, one or both of
the following apply:




(a)

the asbestos-containing material is being




(i)

cut, sanded, drilled, broken, ground down or otherwise fragmented, or




(ii)

disturbed such that the asbestos-containing material may release
airborne asbestos fibre;




(b)

it is necessary to use personal protective equipment or engineering
controls, or both, in respect of that activity to prevent exposure of
a worker to airborne asbestos fibre;



"qualified person"

means a person who




(a)

has knowledge of the management and control of asbestos hazards
through education and training, and




(b)

has experience in the management and control of asbestos hazards.


[am. B.C. Regs. 312/2003, App. A, s. 7; 19/2006, s. 2; 188/2011, App.
B, s. 1.]






Application




6.2


Sections 6.3 to 6.32 apply to a workplace where a worker is or may be
exposed to potentially harmful levels of asbestos fibre, including a
workplace where asbestos-containing material is present.

[en. B.C. Reg. 188/2011, App. B, s. 2.]



General Requirements





Exposure control plan




6.3

(1)


If a worker is or may be exposed to potentially harmful levels of
asbestos, the employer must develop and implement an exposure control
plan meeting the requirements of section 5.54.




(2)

To ensure adequate coordination of the overall plan, the employer must
ensure that it is administered by a properly trained person.






Inventory




6.4

(1)


The employer and the owner must ensure that a qualified person




(a)

collects representative samples of the materials in the workplace that
the qualified person suspects contain asbestos,




(b)

determines whether each of the samples is asbestos-containing material
in accordance with,




(i)

in the case of a sample that is not vermiculite insulation, one of the
methods set out in paragraph (a) (i) to (iii) of the definition of
"asbestos-containing material" in section 6.1, and




(ii)

in the case of a sample that is vermiculite insulation, the method set
out in paragraph (b) of the definition of "asbestos-containing
material" in section 6.1, and




(c)

prepares an inventory of all asbestos-containing materials in the
workplace that includes the following information:




(i)

with respect to each representative sample collected under paragraph
(a),




(A)

the specific location of the sample,




(B)

a description of the sample,




(C)

whether the sample is asbestos-containing material as determined under
paragraph (b),




(D)

the method, set out in paragraph (a) (i) to (iii) or (b) of the
definition of "asbestos-containing material" in section 6.1, used to
determine if the sample is asbestos-containing material, and




(E)

if the sample is determined to be asbestos-containing material, the
type of asbestos, as determined under paragraph (b), and the
percentage of the sample that is comprised of that asbestos;




(ii)

with respect to each material that, under subsection (2), is treated
under this Part as asbestos-containing material because it is
inaccessible or not practicable to sample,




(A)

the specific location of the material or, if the specific location is
not known, the presumed location of the material,




(B)

a description of the material, and




(C)

how it is determined that the material is inaccessible or not
practicable to sample;




(iii)

the location of each of the asbestos-containing materials, including
by using drawings, plans or specifications.




(2)

If a qualified person suspects that a material in the workplace
contains asbestos but determines that the material is inaccessible or
not practicable to sample, the material must be treated under this
Part as asbestos-containing material unless a qualified person, in
accordance with subsection (1), determines that the material is not
asbestos-containing material.




(3)

The employer or the owner satisfies the employer's or owner's
obligations under subsection (1) if the employer or the owner ensures
that an existing inventory of all asbestos­containing materials in the
workplace meets the requirements of subsection (1).




(4)

The employer and the owner must




(a)

keep the inventory current, and




(b)

make a record of any changes made to the inventory.




(5)

The employer and the owner must provide each other with a copy of the
inventory and record referred to in subsection (4) if the other does
not already have a copy.




(6)

The employer must ensure that a copy of the current version of the
inventory is readily available at the workplace.




(7)

The employer and the owner must retain




(a)

the current version of the inventory until all the asbestos-containing
materials are removed from the workplace, and




(b)

the record referred to in subsection (4) (b).


[en. B.C. Reg. 188/2011, App. B, s. 3; am. B.C. Regs. 9/2017, App. E,
s. 1; 116/2022, App. B, s. 7.]






Identification




6.5


The employer and the owner must ensure that all asbestos-containing
materials present in the workplace are identified by signs, labels or,
when these are not practicable, other effective means.

[am. B.C. Reg. 9/2017, App. E, s. 2.]





Assessment and classification




6.6

(1)


The employer must ensure that a risk assessment is conducted by a
qualified person on asbestos-containing material identified in the
inventory referred to in section 6.4 (1) (c) or (3), as applicable,
with due regard for the condition of the material, its friability,
accessibility and likelihood of damage, and the potential for fibre
release and exposure of workers.




(2)

The employer must ensure that a risk assessment has been conducted by
a qualified person before any demolition, alteration, or repair of
machinery, equipment, or structures where asbestos-containing material
may be disturbed.




(3)

Before a work activity that involves working with or in proximity to
asbestos-containing material begins the employer must ensure that a
qualified person assesses the work activity and classifies it as a low
risk work activity, a moderate risk work activity or a high risk work
activity.




(4)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 188/2011, App. B, s. 4 (d).]


[am. B.C. Regs. 188/2011, App. B, s. 4; 9/2017, App. E, s. 3.]






Control of asbestos fibre




6.7

(1)


The employer must ensure that all friable asbestos-containing
materials in the workplace are controlled by removal, enclosure or
encapsulation so as to prevent the release of airborne asbestos fibre.




(2)

The employer must not allow any work that would disturb
asbestos-containing material unless necessary precautions have been
taken to protect workers.

[am. B.C. Reg. 188/2011, App. B, s. 5.]





Procedures




6.8

(1)


The employer must ensure that procedures for handling or using
asbestos-containing material prevent or minimize the release of
airborne asbestos fibres.




(2)

The employer must ensure that the procedures for control, handling or
use of asbestos are in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Board.




(3)

The procedures must address




(a)

containment of asbestos operations where applicable,




(b)

control of the release of asbestos fibre,




(c)

provision, use and maintenance of appropriate personal protective
equipment and clothing,




(d)

means for the decontamination of workers, and




(e)

removal of asbestos waste and cleanup of asbestos waste material.




(4)

The procedures must provide a worker with task-specific work direction
that addresses both hazards and necessary controls.






Prohibitions




6.9

(1)


Except for waste intended for disposal, the employer must ensure
crocidolite asbestos or material containing crocidolite asbestos is
not brought into or used in a workplace.




(2)

The spraying of asbestos or asbestos-containing material is not
permitted.




(3)

Pressure spraying equipment of any type must not be used to remove
asbestos insulation or other asbestos-containing material from
buildings or structures.




(4)

The employer must not permit the use of compressed air to clean up or
remove asbestos dust or debris, or dry sweeping or dry mopping of
asbestos waste.

[am. B.C. Reg. 188/2011, App. B, s. 6.]





Substitution




6.10

(1)


The employer must substitute material less hazardous than
asbestos-containing material when practicable.




(2)

If such substitution is not practicable, the employer must document
the reasons why less hazardous material cannot be substituted for
asbestos-containing material, and make this documentation available to
workers and to the joint committee or the worker health and safety
representative, as applicable.


[am. B.C. Regs. 185/99, s. 43; 188/2011, App. B, s. 7.]






Instruction and training




6.11


The employer must ensure that a worker who is at risk of exposure to
asbestos is adequately instructed and trained in




(a)

the hazards of asbestos,




(b)

the means of identifying asbestos-containing material at the worksite,




(c)

the work procedures to be followed,




(d)

the correct use of the required personal protective equipment, and
operation of the required engineering controls, and




(e)

the purpose and significance of any required health monitoring.






Monitoring




6.12

(1)


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. D, s. 4 (a).]




(2)

During a high risk work activity, except where glove bags are used as
the containment, the employer must sample for airborne asbestos fibre
in




(a)

areas outside of the containment but in its vicinity, at least daily
if there are unprotected workers in the area,




(b)

the clean room, at least daily during removal and cleanup operations,
and




(c)

contaminated areas inside the containment, as necessary during removal
and cleanup to ensure that workers are adequately protected.




(3)

The employer must make the results of all air samples taken during a
high risk work activity available to the workers involved, within 24
hours of completing the collection of the samples.




(4)

Except where glove bags are used as the containment, prior to
dismantling a containment used in a high risk work activity and after
all asbestos waste has been cleaned up, removed or otherwise
controlled, the employer must ensure that




(a)

clearance air sampling is conducted in previously contaminated areas
inside the containment, and




(b)

the airborne asbestos fibre levels in these areas do not exceed 0.02
f/ml.


[am. B.C. Regs. 312/2003, App. D, s. 4; 188/2011, App. B, s. 8.]




Designated Work Areas and Containments





Designated area




6.13

(1)


Before starting work with asbestos-containing material, the employer
must, with due regard for the level of risk,




(a)

identify and mark the boundary of the designated work area by
barricades, fences, or similar means,




(b)

ensure that the immediate work area is cleared of objects, materials
and equipment other than that required to do the work, and




(c)

ensure that windows, doorways and all other openings are adequately
secured to prevent the release of asbestos fibre into other work
areas.




(2)

The employer must post signs at the boundaries of the designated work
area indicating asbestos work is in progress, the hazards, and the
precautions required for entering the work area.




(3)

The employer must restrict entry into the designated work area to
authorized persons who are adequately protected against the level of
risk within the designated work area.






Permanent enclosure design




6.14


When asbestos-containing material in the workplace is controlled by a
permanent enclosure, the employer must ensure that the enclosure is
airtight, and if practicable, that electrical, plumbing, ventilation
and similar services are located outside the enclosure.






Glove bags




6.15


The employer must ensure that when a prefabricated glove bag is used
for the removal of asbestos insulation from pipes, ducts and similar
structures




(a)

the glove bag is sealed to prevent the release of asbestos fibres into
the work area outside the bag,




(b)

waste materials on surfaces are washed to the bottom of the glove bag
and all exposed asbestos insulation is encapsulated while inside the
glove bag enclosure,




(c)

all glove bags are evacuated through a HEPA vacuum to remove the air
inside the bag, prior to removal of the bag, and




(d)

after removing the glove bag, all exposed surfaces are cleaned again.

[am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 6.]





High risk work




6.16

(1)


For high risk work activity the employer must provide and maintain a
containment and a decontamination facility, except that a
decontamination facility is not required if the containment is a glove
bag.




(2)

The employer must inspect a containment and a decontamination facility
used for high risk work activity at least daily to ensure their
effectiveness is maintained.




(3)

The employer must ensure that the design of the decontamination
facility includes




(a)

a physical connection to the containment,




(b)

a shower facility, and




(c)

provision for the safe entry and exit of workers.




(4)

If the high risk work activity involves encapsulation of
asbestos-containing material, the employer must ensure that the
encapsulant penetrates the material and effectively binds the asbestos
fibres together, and has not disturbed the bonding of the material to
the supporting surface.




(5)

At the completion of a high risk work activity and before dismantling
the containment, the employer must




(a)

visually inspect the area inside the containment to ensure that an
effective cleanup has been completed, and




(b)

treat all exposed surfaces inside the containment with a sealant to
bind any remaining asbestos fibres and prevent them from becoming
airborne.

[am. B.C. Reg. 188/2011, App. B, s. 8.]



Ventilation





Containment ventilation




6.17


The employer must, with the exception of a glove bag, ventilate a
containment to ensure that




(a)

air flows only from clean outside areas into the contaminated area,




(b)

exhaust air from the containment ventilation system is directed to the
outdoors through an effective HEPA filter, and




(c)

there is an inward airflow through the decontamination facility into
the containment.






Local exhaust ventilation




6.18


The employer must provide local exhaust ventilation with exhaust air
discharged through a HEPA filter for all dust-producing operations
outside a containment where asbestos-containing material is handled or
used.

[am. B.C. Reg. 188/2011, App. B, s. 9.]





Filter testing




6.19

(1)


The employer must assess the effectiveness of HEPA filters by DOP
(dioctyl phthalate) testing or similar means at least annually, after
a HEPA filter is replaced in a vacuum cleaner or ventilation system,
and before use in high risk work activity.




(2)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 7.]

[am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 7.]



Other Means of Controlling Exposure to Asbestos





Protecting work surfaces




6.20

(1)


Before starting work where exposed friable asbestos-containing
material is present or asbestos-containing material has been handled,
the employer must remove all asbestos dust from contaminated work
surfaces with a damp cloth or similar material, or with a vacuum
cleaner equipped with a HEPA-filtered exhaust.




(2)

Work surfaces in the work area must be kept as free as practicable
from accumulations of asbestos dust.




(3)

Work surfaces in a designated work area must, with due regard for the
level of risk, be covered with plastic sheets, tarpaulins or similar
materials to help control the spread of asbestos-containing material.

[am. B.C. Reg. 188/2011, App. B, s. 10.]





Preventing spread




6.21


The employer must prevent the spread of asbestos dust and debris to
other work areas during the work.






Wetting material




6.22


Asbestos-containing material that is to be removed or disturbed must
be effectively wetted before and during the work, whenever
practicable.






Repairing damaged material




6.23


When damaged asbestos-containing material is repaired, the employer
must ensure that




(a)

the repair methods will seal all exposed, friable ends or edges, and




(b)

the methods used disturb the least amount of asbestos-containing
material necessary to complete the repair.






Friction materials




6.24


If automotive service procedures may involve friction material that is
asbestos-containing material or dust arising from such material, the
employer must ensure that the following control measures are
implemented:




(a)

dry removal of friction material dust from automotive assemblies using
compressed air, brushes, or other similar means is prohibited;




(b)

service work areas where friction material is handled are posted with
signs to advise workers of the hazards and required precautions;




(c)

suitable work procedures are followed to minimize the generation of
airborne dust;




(d)

a worker handling equipment or assemblies contaminated with dust from
friction material, outside of a HEPA-filtered vacuum enclosure system,
wears suitable personal protective equipment, including disposable
coveralls and at least a HEPA-filtered dual cartridge half face
respirator;




(e)

waste material that may be contaminated with asbestos is promptly
collected and disposed of in accordance with applicable requirements;




(f)

contaminated tools, equipment and work surfaces are cleaned after work
is completed.

[am. B.C. Reg. 188/2011, App. B, s. 11.]



Waste Handling and Disposal





Sealed containers




6.25


The employer must ensure that all asbestos waste and other waste
contaminated with asbestos, including disposable protective clothing
and cleanup equipment, is placed into sealed containers which are
labelled as containing asbestos.






Cleaning containers and equipment




6.26

(1)


The employer must ensure that the exterior of a container of asbestos
waste is cleaned with a damp cloth or a vacuum cleaner equipped with a
HEPA-filtered exhaust before being removed from a designated work
area.




(2)

Reusable tools and equipment contaminated with asbestos must be
cleaned after work is completed.






Waste removal




6.27

(1)


Before any work involving asbestos takes place, the employer must
ensure that procedures for the safe removal of asbestos dust and
debris from the work area are set out in writing by a qualified
person.




(2)

The written procedures must




(a)

comply with the requirements set out in section 6.8,




(b)

provide for removal of asbestos dust and debris from the work area




(i)

while work is in progress, at intervals necessary to eliminate or
minimize the risk of exposure,




(ii)

at the end of each work shift, and




(iii)

at the completion of work involving asbestos, and




(c)

consider the nature of the asbestos dust and debris to be removed and
provide specific direction regarding which of the following removal
methods, or combination of the following removal methods, is most
appropriate for safe removal of that asbestos dust and debris in
relation to each of the times set out in paragraph (b) (i), (ii) and
(iii):




(i)

using a vacuum cleaner, or similar device, that is equipped with a
HEPA-filtered exhaust;




(ii)

wiping surfaces with a damp cloth or sponge to remove residual amounts
of asbestos dust and debris;




(iii)

wet sweeping or wet mopping to remove larger amounts of asbestos dust
and debris;




(iv)

using a shovel or similar device to place larger amounts of dampened
asbestos debris into the sealed container required by section 6.25;




(v)

using another method that is acceptable to the Board.




(3)

The employer must ensure that




(a)

every worker who is engaged in asbestos dust and debris removal at the
work area is adequately instructed and trained in the written
procedures of the qualified person under this section, and




(b)

the written procedures of the qualified person are followed.

[en. B.C. Reg. 188/2011, App. M, s. 1.]





Waste disposal




6.28


The employer must dispose of containers of asbestos waste promptly to
prevent the accumulation of large amounts of asbestos waste.




Personal Protective Clothing and Equipment





Respiratory protection




6.29

(1)


The employer must supply, and ensure that workers within a designated
work area wear, respirators which are adequate for the anticipated
level of exposure.




(2)

The employer must ensure that a single use respirator is not used for
protection against asbestos.

[am. B.C. Reg. 312/2010, App. G, s. 2.]





Protective clothing




6.30

(1)


The employer must ensure that all persons within a designated work
area wear protective clothing which is made of material resistant to
penetration by asbestos fibres, fits snugly at the neck, wrists and
ankles, and as necessary to protect against the risk, covers the head
and feet as well as the body.




(2)

The employer must replace or repair any torn or damaged protective
clothing immediately.




(3)

Before a worker removes protective clothing and equipment, the
employer must ensure that the worker cleans this gear with a damp
cloth or a vacuum cleaner equipped with a HEPA-filtered exhaust.




(4)

The employer must ensure that a worker removes protective clothing and
equipment before leaving the designated work area.




(5)

The employer must ensure that protective clothing contaminated with
asbestos is, before reuse, cleaned with a vacuum cleaner equipped with
a HEPA-filtered exhaust, and placed in a water-soluble plastic bag,
which is sealed and labelled before being sent to an acceptable
laundry facility.






Information to laundry workers




6.31


The employer must ensure that workers who launder clothing
contaminated with asbestos are informed of the hazards of asbestos and
the precautions required for handling the clothing.




Documentation





Retention of records




6.32


The employer must maintain, for at least 10 years, the following
records respecting asbestos-containing materials:




(a)

risk assessments;




(b)

inspections;




(c)

air monitoring results;




(d)

instruction and training of workers;




(e)

incident investigation reports.

[en. B.C. Reg. 9/2017, App. E, s. 4.]



Biological Agents





Definitions




6.33


In sections 6.33 to 6.40:



"medical sharp"

means a needle device, scalpel, lancet or any other medical device
that can reasonably be expected to make parenteral contact;



"occupational exposure"

means reasonably anticipated contact with a biological agent, that is
designated as a hazardous substance in section 5.1.1, resulting from
the performance of a worker's duties;



"parenteral contact"

means piercing of mucous membranes or the skin;



"precautionary principle"

means adopting provisional precautions covering all routes of
transmission, based on a higher level of protection, when the
identity, aetiology or routes of transmission of the biological agent
designated as a hazardous substance in section 5.1.1 have not been
established;



"route of transmission"

means any route by which a biological agent designated as a hazardous
substance in section 5.1.1 may be transmitted including contact,
droplet or airborne transmission;



"safety-engineered medical sharp"

means a medical sharp with a built-in safety feature or mechanism that
eliminates or minimizes the risk of accidental parenteral contact
while or after the sharp is used;



"safety-engineered needle"

includes a self-sheathing needle device and a retractable needle
system;



"standard or routine infection control precautions"

means safe work practices as defined by the

Practical Guidelines for Infection Control in Health Care Facilities

issued by the World Health Organization, as amended from time to time,
and the

Infectious Diseases, Routine Practices and Additional Precautions
for Preventing the Transmission of Infection in Health Care

guidelines issued by Health Canada, as amended from time to time;



"transmission-based precautions"

means safe work practices based on the route of transmission as
defined by the

Practical Guidelines for Infection Control in Health Care Facilities

issued by the World Health Organization, as amended from time to time,
and the

Infectious Diseases, Routine Practices and Additional Precautions
for Preventing the Transmission of Infection in Health Care

guidelines issued by Health Canada, as amended from time to time.


[am. B.C. Regs. 241/2006, s. 1; 106/2007, s. 1; 319/2007, App. A, s.
6.]






Exposure control plan




6.34

(1)


If a worker has or may have occupational exposure, the employer must
develop and implement an exposure control plan, based on the
precautionary principle, that meets the requirements of section 5.54
and that includes the following:




(a)

a risk assessment conducted by a qualified person to determine if
there is a potential for occupational exposure by any route of
transmission;




(b)

a list of all work activities for which there is a potential for
occupational exposure;




(c)

engineering controls and administrative controls to eliminate or
minimize the potential for occupational exposure;




(d)

standard or routine infection control precautions and
transmission-based precautions for all work activities that have been
identified as having a potential for occupational exposure, including




(i)

housekeeping practices designed to keep the workplace clean and free
from spills, splashes or other accidental contamination,




(ii)

work procedures to ensure that contaminated laundry is isolated,
bagged and handled as little as possible, and




(iii)

work procedures to ensure that laboratory or other samples containing
a biological agent designated as a hazardous substance in section
5.1.1 are handled in accordance with the
Laboratory Biosafety Guidelines 3rd edition, 2004
, issued by the Public Health Agency of Canada;




(e)

a description of personal protective equipment designed to eliminate
or minimize occupational exposure;




(f)

a program to inform workers about the contents of the exposure control
plan and to provide them with adequate education, training and
supervision to work safely with, and in proximity to, a biological
agent designated as a hazardous substance in section 5.1.1;




(g)

a record of all training and education provided to workers in the
program described in paragraph (f);




(h)

a record of all workers who have been exposed, while performing work
activities, to a biological agent designated as a hazardous substance
in section 5.1.1.


[en. B.C. Reg. 319/2007, App. A, s. 7; am. B.C. Reg. 312/2010, App. N,
s. 2.]






Repealed




6.35


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 319/2007, App. A, s. 8.]






Controls




6.36

(1)


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 319/2007, App. A, s. 9.]




(1.1)

On and after January 1, 2008, a needleless device or safety-engineered
hollow bore needle must be used for the following procedures performed
to care for or treat a person:




(a)

withdrawal of body fluids;




(b)

accessing a vein or artery;




(c)

administration of medications or fluids;




(d)

any other procedure involving the potential for an exposure to
accidental parenteral contact for which a needleless system or
safety-engineered hollow bore needle system is available.




(1.2)

On and after October 1, 2008, any medical sharp used to care for or
treat a person must be a safety-engineered medical sharp.




(1.3)

Subsections (1.1) and (1.2) do not apply if




(a)

use of the required device, needle or sharp is not clinically
appropriate in the particular circumstances, or




(b)

the required device, needle or sharp is not available in commercial
markets.




(1.4)

If more than one type of safety-engineered hollow bore needle or
safety-engineered medical sharp is available in commercial markets,
the needle or sharp that provides the highest level of protection from
accidental parenteral contact must be used.




(1.5)

For purposes of subsection (1.4), an employer must make a
determination of the highest level of protection available based on
information provided by manufacturers, independent testing agencies,
objective product evaluation, or other reliable sources.




(1.6)

Safe work procedures and practices relating to the use of
safety-engineered hollow bore needles and safety-engineered medical
sharps must be developed and implemented before use of these devices.




(2)-(4)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 319/2007, App. A, s. 9.]




(5)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. E, s. 3.]




(6)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 319/2007, App. A, s. 9.]


[am. B.C. Regs. 312/2003, App. E, s. 3; 241/2006, s. 2; 106/2007, ss.
2 and 3; 319/2007, App. A, s. 9.]






Labels and identification




6.37

(1)


A container holding a known or suspected biological agent designated
as a hazardous substance in section 5.1.1 must be clearly identified
by the biohazard symbol as described in the Hazardous Products
Regulations (Canada) or by other means that indicates the presence of
a biological agent.




(2)

A laboratory sample of a known or suspected biological agent
designated as a hazardous substance in section 5.1.1 must be
transported only in accordance with the federal

Transportation of Dangerous Goods Act, 1992

(Canada).


[en. B.C. Reg. 319/2007, App. A, s. 10; am. B.C. Reg. 30/2015, s. 29.]






Repealed




6.38


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 319/2007, App. A, s. 11.]






Vaccination




6.39

(1)


An employer must offer vaccination against the hepatitis B virus to
all workers who are at risk of occupational exposure to that virus.




(2)

If the
Communicable Disease Control Immunization Program Manual
issued by the BC Centre for Disease Control, as amended from time to
time, lists a vaccine that protects against infection by a biological
agent that is designated as a hazardous substance in section 5.1.1,
the employer must offer the vaccination to all workers who are at risk
of occupational exposure to that biological agent.




(3)

Vaccinations offered under subsections (1) and (2) must be provided
without cost to workers.

[en. B.C. Reg. 319/2007, App. A, s. 12.]





Medical evaluation




6.40


If a worker may have been exposed to the human immunodeficiency virus
(HIV), hepatitis B virus or any other biological agent designated as a
hazardous substance in section 5.1.1, the employer must advise the
worker to seek immediate medical evaluation.

[en. B.C. Reg. 319/2007, App. A, s. 13.]





Repealed




6.41


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 319/2007, App. A, s. 14.]




Cytotoxic Drugs





Definition




6.42


In sections 6.43 to 6.58:



"cytotoxic drug"

means an agent that possesses a specific destructive action on certain
cells or that may be genotoxic, oncogenic, mutagenic, teratogenic, or
hazardous to cells in any way and includes most anti-cancer drugs.






Exposure control plan




6.43


If a worker is or may be occupationally exposed to a cytotoxic drug,
the employer must develop and implement an exposure control plan
meeting the requirements of section 5.54.






Information




6.44


If a cytotoxic drug is received, prepared, administered, stored or
disposed of at a workplace, the employer must maintain and make
readily available to workers information on its




(a)

acute and chronic toxicity, including any potential reproductive
hazard,




(b)

acute exposure treatment, and




(c)

safe handling.

[am. B.C. Reg. 21/2006, s. 1.]





Labels




6.45


A container of a cytotoxic drug and a shelf or bin where a cytotoxic
drug is regularly stored must be appropriately labelled.






Signs




6.46


Warning signs which are clearly visible and clearly state the
identified hazards must be posted in all areas where cytotoxic drugs
are stored or mixed.






List




6.47


Storage and preparation areas for cytotoxic drugs must be posted with
a list of all cytotoxic drugs present in the workplace.






Procedures




6.48

(1)


When a cytotoxic drug is received, prepared, administered, stored or
disposed of, written safe work procedures must be developed and
implemented for applicable aspects of receiving, storage, preparation,
administration and waste handling.




(2)

The work procedures required by subsection (1) must be readily
available for reference by workers and where practicable, summaries of
relevant procedures must be posted in the appropriate work areas.

[am. B.C. Reg. 21/2006, s. 2.]





Reproductive toxins




6.49

(1)


At any worksite where a worker is occupationally exposed to a
cytotoxic drug that is a reproductive toxin, the employer must develop
policy and procedures appropriate to the risk, which may include
protective reassignment.




(2)

The policy and procedures must inform workers about the reproductive
toxin and identify ways to minimize exposure to the reproductive toxin
for a worker who has advised the employer of pregnancy or intent to
conceive a child.






Instruction




6.50

(1)


A worker involved in any aspect of handling a cytotoxic drug must
receive pre-job education and on-the-job training on the handling of
this substance.




(2)

The instruction required by subsection (1) must address the




(a)

known health risks, including any potential reproductive hazards,




(b)

relevant techniques and procedures for safe handling,




(c)

proper use of protective equipment and materials, and




(d)

spill and waste disposal procedures.




(3)

The adequacy of instruction must be assessed when required by a change
in the substance used, information available on the substance or a
change in work procedures, and retraining provided where necessary.






Supervision




6.51


A worker involved in any aspect of cytotoxic drug handling must be
effectively supervised.






Records




6.52

(1)


The employer must maintain a record of all workers who prepare or
administer cytotoxic drugs, including the name of the drugs handled,
and when practicable, the number of preparations or administrations
per week.




(2)

Exposure records must be maintained for the duration of employment
plus 10 years, and training records for 3 years from the
date that the training occurred.






Drug preparation and administration




6.53

(1)


All mixing, preparation and priming of administration sets with a
cytotoxic drug must be performed in one centralized area in a
specially designated Class II Type B biological safety cabinet that




(a)

is exhausted to the outside atmosphere in a manner that prevents
recirculation into any work area,




(b)

has exhaust and ventilation systems that remain in operation for a
sufficient period of time to ensure that no contaminants escape from
the biological safety cabinet into the workplace, and




(c)

is equipped with a continuous monitoring device to permit confirmation
of adequate airflow and cabinet performance.




(2)

The administration of cytotoxic drugs must be done by following safe
work procedures.

[am. B.C. Reg. 21/2006, s. 3.]





Disconnects




6.54


Syringes and intravenous sets used for cytotoxic drugs must have
appropriate fittings, such as Luer locking fittings, which prevent
accidental disconnection.

[am. B.C. Reg. 21/2006, s. 4.]





Personal protective equipment




6.55

(1)


Adequate personal protective equipment must be provided and worn
whenever there is a risk of contact with a cytotoxic drug.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1) personal protective equipment
includes




(a)

medical gloves that are manufactured and designed for use when
handling cytotoxic drugs,




(b)

a moisture resistant, long-sleeved gown with cuffs,




(c)

if there is a risk of contact with aerosols, an approved respirator,
and




(d)

if there is a risk of eye contact, eye and face protection.




(3)

Used gowns and gloves must not be worn outside the preparation,
administration or storage area and must be handled as hazardous waste
or contaminated linen.




(4)

All other non-disposable personal protective equipment must be cleaned
immediately after use.

[am. B.C. Reg. 21/2006, s. 5.]





Personal hygiene




6.56


Eating, drinking, smoking, application of cosmetics or storage of food
is prohibited in any area where a cytotoxic drug is mixed,
administered or stored.






Waste disposal




6.57

(1)


Adequate, leak-proof waste disposal containers, including sharps and
solids containers, and distinctive plastic waste bags must be
available in every area where cytotoxic drugs are prepared,
administered or stored, and all cytotoxic drug-related waste must be
placed into these containers or bags.




(2)

Any excreta from a patient being treated with cytotoxic drugs that is
handled by a worker must be treated as cytotoxic drug-related waste.

[am. B.C. Reg. 21/2006, s. 6.]





Spills




6.58

(1)


Written emergency procedures to address spills of a cytotoxic drug
must be developed and implemented which address requirements for small
spill cleanup, both inside and outside the biological safety cabinet,
large spill cleanup, and personal decontamination.




(2)

Spill kits, clearly labelled, must be kept in or near cytotoxic drug
preparation, administration and storage areas and a sign detailing
spill procedures must be posted in all such areas.

[am. B.C. Reg. 21/2006, s. 7.]



Lead





Definitions




6.58.1


In this section and in sections 6.59 to 6.69:


"coating"
means paint or any similar material that




(a)

contains lead, and




(b)

forms a film when dry;



"exposure limit"

means the applicable exposure limit as referred to in section 5.48;



"exposure monitoring"

means




(a)

air and surface monitoring conducted in accordance with section 5.53
(4), and




(b)

air monitoring conducted in accordance with section 6.61;



"health monitoring"

means that part of a health protection program that monitors and
assesses individual workers through clinical medical examinations, by
measuring and determining lead amounts in capillary or venous blood,
and by other tests, for the purpose of identifying changes in the
worker's health status due to occupational exposure to lead;



"inorganic lead"

means elemental lead, inorganic compounds of lead and lead chromate,
but does not include organic compounds of lead;



"lead process"

means the following work activities and processes, as well as any
other work activity or process, involving the manufacturing,
processing or handling of lead, or of materials, products or coatings
containing lead that may expose a worker to lead dust, fumes or mist:




(a)

abrasive blasting;




(b)

applying electric arc, oxy-acetylene, oxy gas, plasma arc or a flame
for the purpose of welding, cutting or cleaning the surface of any
structure;




(c)

demolishing, removing or encapsulating materials;




(d)

dry sanding or scraping, grinding, cutting or buffing;




(e)

using lead in fire assay;




(f)

cleaning up contamination;




(g)

hot cutting in demolition, dismantling or salvage operations;




(h)

manufacturing, assembling, handling or repairing lead-acid storage
batteries, and sorting, packing and handling plates or other
lead-containing parts that are removed or recovered from lead-acid
storage batteries;




(i)

manufacturing, assembling, handling, testing or firing of
lead-containing weapons, detonators or other explosives;




(j)

mixing and blending lead in plastics, coatings, moulding powders and
stabilizers;




(k)

mixing and melting processes in the glass industry;




(l)

constructing, installing, altering, repairing or renovating
structures, substrates, mechanical or engineered systems, or parts of
any of these;




(m)

smelting, refining, alloying, melting and casting;




(n)

spray painting;




(o)

repairing radiators;




(p)

recycling or scrap-processing;




(q)

transporting, disposing, storing or containing lead or materials
containing lead;




(r)

using a power tool, high pressure water jets or other mechanical means
to cut, sand, buff or remove a surface coating;



"medical removal"

means the temporary removal of a worker from a work activity involving
a lead process if health monitoring, conducted under the supervision
of a physician, indicates that the worker is at risk of suffering
adverse health effects from continued exposure to lead;



"risk assessment"

means a risk assessment conducted under section 6.59.1.

[en. B.C. Reg. 9/2017, App. F, s. 1.]





Application




6.59


Sections 6.59.1 to 6.69 apply to a workplace where a worker is or may
be




(a)

engaged in a lead process, or




(b)

exposed to potentially harmful levels of inorganic lead dust, fumes or
mist.

[en. B.C. Reg. 9/2017, App. F, s. 2.]





Risk assessment




6.59.1

(1)


In this section,
"existing monitoring data"
means data




(a)

gathered under section 5.53 or 6.61, or




(b)

as described in section 6.61.1 (2) (b).




(2)

An employer must not permit workers to engage in a work activity or
lead process that may expose workers to lead dust, fumes or mist
unless a risk assessment has first been completed by a qualified
person.




(3)

The risk assessment must include consideration of all of the
following:




(a)

the hazards of lead, including the exposure limit;




(b)

any information contained on a label or in a safety data sheet
provided by a supplier, manufacturer or employer in respect of




(i)

the lead content in the materials, coatings or products to be used in
the lead process, and




(ii)

the health effects of lead exposure;




(c)

the scope, circumstances and nature of the work activity or lead
process, including




(i)

whether section 5.50 applies, given the length of a shift,




(ii)

any changes between shifts in the scope, circumstances or nature of
the work activity or lead process,




(iii)

whether the work activity involves welding, soldering, brazing,
cutting or other hot work processes,




(iv)

the potential routes of exposure to lead dust, fumes or mist during
the work activity or while engaging in the lead process, including by
inhalation or ingestion,




(v)

the potential level and duration of the exposure referred to in
subparagraph (iv), and




(vi)

the results of any relevant health monitoring, if applicable,
conducted




(A)

in relation to an exposure control plan under section 5.54 (2) (f), or




(B)

as part of a health protection program under section 6.67;




(d)

the effectiveness of existing and planned control measures, as
determined through exposure monitoring, to prevent or minimize worker
exposure to lead dust, fumes or mist, including with respect to access
to the workplace by unprotected workers;




(e)

any additional information the employer needs to complete the risk
assessment.




(4)

A qualified person may rely on existing monitoring data for the
purpose of assessing control measures under subsection (3) (d) only if
it is reasonable to do so based on both of the following:




(a)

the relevance of the existing monitoring data and whether additional
exposure monitoring may be needed to reassess the effectiveness of
existing and planned control measures because of changes in personnel
or to the scope, circumstances or nature of the work activity or lead
process;




(b)

if applicable and available, the results of any health monitoring
conducted on workers since the existing monitoring data was gathered.




(5)

An employer must ensure that a risk assessment is reviewed by a
qualified person if any of the following occur:




(a)

there is reason to believe the risk assessment is no longer valid;




(b)

there has been a significant change in the scope, circumstances or
nature of the work activity or lead process to which the risk
assessment relates;




(c)

the results of any exposure monitoring or health monitoring show it to
be necessary.




(6)

If changes to the risk assessment are necessary as a result of the
review under subsection (5), the employer must ensure that the risk
assessment is changed accordingly.

[en. B.C. Reg. 9/2017, App. F, s. 3.]





Exposure control plan




6.60

(1)


If a risk assessment indicates that a worker is or may be exposed to
lead dust, fumes or mist, the employer must




(a)

ensure that a qualified person develops an exposure control plan
meeting the requirements of sections 5.54 and 5.57 (2), and of
subsection (3) of this section, and




(b)

implement the exposure control plan.




(2)

If a risk assessment is changed under section 6.59.1 (6), the employer
must ensure that




(a)

the exposure control plan is amended to address the changes to the
risk assessment, and




(b)

the amendments to the exposure control plan are implemented.




(3)

For the purposes of section 5.54 (2) (d), the written work procedures
within an exposure control plan must address at least the following:




(a)

the containment of lead processes through the use of enclosures,
barriers or encapsulation, if used as a control measure;




(b)

the effective control of worker exposure to lead dust, fumes or mist,
including worker decontamination and personal hygiene;




(c)

safe work practices and procedures;




(d)

the correct selection, use, care and maintenance of any required
personal protective equipment and clothing;




(e)

emergency procedures;




(f)

the removal, cleanup and disposal of lead dust and debris, including
the measures that will be used for the purposes of meeting the
requirements of section 6.64.

[en. B.C. Reg. 9/2017, App. F, s. 4.]





Elimination or control of exposure




6.60.1

(1)


An employer must, to the extent it is practicable,




(a)

avoid the use of materials, products or coatings containing lead that
may expose a worker to lead dust, fumes or mist, and




(b)

replace materials, products and coatings referred to in paragraph (a)
with substances or processes that, under normal conditions of use,
eliminate the risk of worker exposure to lead dust, fumes or mist.




(2)

If it is not practicable to eliminate the risk of worker exposure to
lead dust, fumes or mist, the employer must control the risk below the
applicable exposure limit under section 5.48 by applying control
measures that




(a)

are appropriate to the work activity,




(b)

are consistent with the risk assessment and with sections 5.55 and
5.57, and




(c)

include, in order of priority,




(i)

the design and use of engineering controls, including appropriate lead
dust, fumes or mist reduction systems, containment of lead processes,
and the provision and use of suitable work equipment and materials,




(ii)

the control of exposure to lead dust, fumes or mist through
administrative controls, including work practice controls, and




(iii)

if the control measures set out in paragraphs (i) and (ii) are not
adequate to control exposure, the provision and use of suitable
personal protective equipment in addition to those control measures.

[en. B.C. Reg. 9/2017, App. F, s. 5.]





Air monitoring for lead




6.61

(1)


If there is a potential for hazardous exposure to airborne lead dust,
fumes or mist in a work activity or lead process, the employer must




(a)

ensure that air monitoring is conducted using a sampling and
analytical method referred to in subsection (2)




(i)

during the first shift of the work activity or lead process, and




(ii)

as necessary throughout the work activity or lead process to ensure
that control measures are effective to prevent or minimize worker
exposure to lead dust, fumes or mist, and




(b)

keep, for at least 10 years, records of the results of air monitoring
conducted under this section.




(2)

Acceptable sampling and analytical methods for the purpose of
subsection (1) are as follows:




(a)

a method detailed in a standard occupational hygiene reference
published by




(i)

the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, or




(ii)

the Occupational Safety and Health Administration;




(b)

another method acceptable to the Board.

[en. B.C. Reg. 9/2017, App. F, s. 6.]





Exceptions to air monitoring requirement




6.61.1

(1)


In this section,
"equivalent work operations"
means work operations closely matching the lead processes, types of
materials, products or coatings, work practices, control measures and
environmental conditions prevailing in the employer's current work
operations.




(2)

Despite section 6.61, an employer is not required to monitor the
concentration of airborne lead if a qualified person determines that




(a)

existing control measures are effective in keeping worker exposure as
low as reasonably achievable below the exposure limit, and




(b)

the employer




(i)

has previously monitored for airborne concentrations of lead during
equivalent work operations and there is no reason to believe that the
results of the previous monitoring would not continue to apply, or




(ii)

has objective air monitoring data that was collected during equivalent
work operations through industry surveys or peer-reviewed or
scientific studies that use sampling and analytical methods referred
to in section 6.61 (2).




(3)

An employer must keep, for at least 10 years, a record documenting the
following, as applicable:




(a)

the previous monitoring data used for the purpose of subsection (2)
(b) (i);




(b)

the source of the objective air monitoring data, and the data itself,
referred to in subsection (2) (b) (ii).

[en. B.C. Reg. 9/2017, App. F, s. 7.]





Warning signs




6.62


Warning signs describing the hazards and health consequences of lead
exposure and prohibiting the entry of unauthorized workers must be
posted at the boundary of any work area where hazardous lead exposures
could occur.

[en. B.C. Reg. 9/2017, App. F, s. 8.]





Personal hygiene




6.63


If exposure to lead dust, fumes or mist or lead compounds results in
the contamination of exposed skin or work clothing, the requirements
for personal hygiene in sections 5.82 to 5.84 must be met.

[am. B.C. Reg. 9/2017, App. F, s. 9.]





Housekeeping




6.64


An employer must ensure




(a)

that all surfaces in the work area are kept as free as practicable
from accumulations of lead dust, and




(b)

that, if vacuuming methods are selected as a control measure, vacuums
must be




(i)

designed, maintained, tested and used in accordance with




(A)

the manufacturer's specifications, or




(B)

the instructions of a professional engineer, and




(ii)

equipped with an effective HEPA filter on the exhaust.

[en. B.C. Reg. 9/2017, App. F, s. 10.]





Prohibited cleaning methods




6.65


A person must not use blowers, compressed air, compressed gas or dry
sweeping cleaning methods in areas where lead processes are conducted.

[en. B.C. Reg. 9/2017, App. F, s. 10.]





Instruction and training




6.66


An employer must ensure that a worker who is or may be exposed to lead
dust, fumes or mist receives adequate instruction and training in all
of the following:




(a)

the hazards and health effects of exposure to lead dust, fumes and
mist;




(b)

the specific nature of the work activity or lead process and the
potential routes of lead exposure that may result;




(c)

safe work practices and procedures;




(d)

the correct operation and use of any required equipment and
engineering controls;




(e)

the purpose and limitations of personal protective equipment, and the
correct selection, fitting, use, care and maintenance of that
equipment;




(f)

personal hygiene and decontamination procedures;




(g)

the purpose and significance of health monitoring;




(h)

housekeeping practices as described in section 6.64.

[en. B.C. Reg. 9/2017, App. F, s. 10.]





Health protection




6.67


The employer must develop and implement an effective health protection
program, in a manner acceptable to the Board, if a worker is exposed
to potentially hazardous levels of lead.






Records




6.68


The employer must




(a)

maintain records of risk assessments, worker exposures and worker
training, and




(b)

ensure that health monitoring records are maintained in a manner
acceptable to the Board.






Primary lead smelters




6.69


An employer engaged in primary lead smelting is exempt from the
requirement to maintain airborne lead concentrations at or below the
exposure limit in lead processing areas, provided that in these areas
the employer




(a)

maintains the airborne lead concentrations as low as is reasonably
achievable using the best available technology,




(b)

establishes and maintains an acceptable health protection plan
including the elements in section 5.54, to ensure that workers'
blood lead levels are minimized,




(c)

establishes provisions acceptable to the Board for the medical removal
of workers, and




(d)

submits a summary of the annual review to the Board.




Pesticides





Definitions




6.70

(1)


In sections 6.70 to 6.109:



"antisapstain"

in reference to a pesticide, means any substance which is applied to
freshly cut wood to control fungal growth;



"closed system"

means a device and procedure for transferring a pesticide from one
container to another in a manner that does not expose the operator to
the pesticide;


"field"
means any area, excluding a body of water, on or in which one or more
crops are grown and includes but is not limited to a field of row
crops, an orchard, a mushroom farm, a greenhouse, a nursery, a turf
farm, a silviculture area and any similar area;


"fumigant"
means a pesticide applied in the form of a gas or vapour to kill pests
and which is typically applied in an enclosed space;


"label"
has the same meaning as in the

Pest Control Products Act

(Canada);


"pest"
means an injurious, noxious or troublesome insect, fungus, weed,
rodent, parasite or other organism;


"pesticide"
means a micro-organism or material that is represented, sold, used or
intended to be used to prevent, destroy, repel or mitigate a pest and
includes




(a)

a plant growth regulator, plant defoliator or plant desiccant, and




(b)

a control product, other than a device, under the

Pest Control Products Act

(Canada);



"restricted entry interval"

means the length of time representing a period of precaution that must
elapse after the application of a pesticide, before an unprotected
worker may be authorized to enter the treated area;


"toxic"
, in reference to a pesticide, means a formulation or a pesticide
containing active ingredients that, by oral or dermal routes of entry,
have acute mammalian toxicities expressed as the Lethal Dose 50% (LD
50
), and, for this purpose, a pesticide is considered to be




(a)

very toxic, if the LD
50
is less than 500 mg/kg,




(b)

moderately toxic, if the LD
50
is 500 mg/kg or more but less than or equal to
1 000 mg/kg, and




(c)

slightly toxic, if the LD
50
is more than 1 000 mg/kg but less than or equal to
2 000 mg/kg;



"treated area"

means that portion of a field, building, structure or area in which a
pesticide has been applied.




(2)

For the purposes of the definition of "toxic" in subsection (1), if
the LD
50
of a pesticide is reported as a range, the lowest reported LD
50
must be used to determine the class of the pesticide as very toxic,
moderately toxic or slightly toxic.

[am. B.C. Reg. 139/2021, App. A, s. 1.]





Application




6.71


Sections 6.72 to 6.109 apply to any workplace where pesticides are
used, stored or handled, except for disinfectants, germicidal
products, cleaners, antifouling paints and first aid treatments which
are issued Pest Control Product numbers.




General Requirements





Pesticide labels




6.72


The employer must ensure that a pesticide for use in the workplace has
been registered and labelled by the manufacturer in accordance with
the

Pest Control Products Act

(Canada).

[en. B.C. Reg. 185/99, s. 44.]





Placards or signs for treated materials




6.73


If pesticide residues on treated seedlots, plants and similar
materials supplied for planting may pose a hazard to workers, the
employer must ensure placards or signs are provided with the treated
materials stating




(a)

the names and types of pesticides applied,




(b)

the date of last application, and




(c)

the hazards and precautions required for handling these materials.

[am. B.C. Reg. 139/2021, App. A, s. 2.]





Pesticide use




6.74


The employer must ensure that a pesticide for use in the workplace is
used in accordance with the requirements stated on the label and with
good application practice.

[en. B.C. Reg. 185/99, s. 46.]





SDS




6.75


The employer must make readily available to workers an SDS or its
written equivalent for all pesticides used at the workplace.

[am. B.C. Regs. 185/99, s. 45; 30/2015, s. 30.]





Informing workers




6.76


An employer must ensure that workers occupying, or who may access,
that portion of a field, building, structure or area in which
pesticides are to be applied are informed of




(a)

the intent to use pesticides,




(b)

the names and types of pesticides to be applied,




(c)

the hazards associated with the use of those pesticides, and




(d)

the precautions required during the operations.

[en. B.C. Reg. 139/2021, App. A, s. 3.]



Mixing, Loading and Applying Pesticides





Qualifications




6.77

(1)


The employer must ensure that a worker or applicator who mixes, loads
or applies a moderately or very toxic pesticide for use in a workplace
or who cleans or maintains equipment used in the operations




(a)

is 16 years of age or over, and




(b)

holds a valid pesticide applicator certificate issued under the

Integrated Pest Management Act

.




(2)

Subsection (1) (b) does not apply to any of the following:




(a)

the use of biocides or slimicides in pulp and paper operations;




(b)

antisapstain materials;




(c)

the use of a pesticide by an assistant applicator within the meaning
of, and in accordance with, the

Integrated Pest Management Act

and the regulations made under it.




(3)

Workers involved in training for the purposes of obtaining a valid
pesticide applicator certificate who are directly supervised by a
qualified person are exempt from the requirement of subsection (1) (b)
during the training period.


[am. B.C. Regs. 188/2011, App. C, s. 1; 139/2021, App. A, s. 4.]






Procedures




6.78


The employer must develop and implement written safe work procedures
for the




(a)

handling, mixing, storage and application of pesticides,




(b)

cleanup and disposal of spilled pesticides, and




(c)

summoning of first aid and medical assistance for workers overexposed
to pesticides.






Health protection




6.79


Where, in the opinion of the Board, it is necessary to provide health
monitoring for workers exposed to pesticides, employers and workers
must participate as required by the Board, and records must be
maintained in a manner acceptable to the Board.






Rescue




6.80


If a worker applies a moderately or very toxic pesticide in a
greenhouse or similar enclosed space and the worker may be
incapacitated during the application, the work must be done in such a
manner that a rescue can be effected by another worker equipped and
able to do so.




Equipment





General requirements




6.81


The employer must ensure that equipment used to mix, load or apply
pesticides is




(a)

constructed of materials which are chemically compatible with the
pesticide in use if contact with the pesticide is likely to occur,




(b)

operated only by trained persons,




(c)

used in accordance with instructions from the pesticide supplier,




(d)

maintained in a safe operating condition,




(e)

cleaned, repaired and maintained by workers who have been adequately
instructed in safe work procedures, and




(f)

in a safe condition before maintenance or repair work is carried out,
including welding operations.

[am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. F, s. 1.]





Fixed stations




6.82


A fixed pesticide mixing, loading or application station must have




(a)

openings on tanks secured as necessary to prevent accidental worker
entry,




(b)

shut-off devices at the discharge end of hoses and pipes leading from
mixing tanks, and




(c)

when required by the Board, a closed system for the mixing, loading or
transferring of pesticides.






Mobile equipment




6.83


A tank, with a capacity of 200 litres (44 imp gal) or more, on mobile
pesticide application equipment must have




(a)

a device which indicates the fluid level, for equipment sold for first
use after January 1, 1999,




(b)

the openings secured to prevent spillage while the equipment is in
use, and




(c)

shut-off devices at the discharge end of hoses and pipes leading from
the mixing tanks.




Pesticide Application





Safe application practice




6.84

(1)


The employer must ensure that a pesticide is applied in a manner that
controls the risk of adverse health effect or injury to any person.




(2)

Before a pesticide is applied, the employer must ensure that all
workers in the area that is to be treated and who are not required for
the application of pesticides are moved to a safe location.




(3)

If practicable, the employer must schedule a pesticide application in
a building for a time when the building is unoccupied.






Posting warning signs




6.85


Before a moderately or very toxic pesticide or a fumigant is applied
the employer must ensure that




(a)

warning signs acceptable to the Board are conspicuously posted at
normal points of worker entry to the area to be treated, and




(b)

if a pesticide is applied in an enclosed space all entrances to the
space are secured to prevent unauthorized persons from entering.






Design of warning signs




6.86


Warning signs must be of a design, construction and durability to be
clearly identifiable for the prescribed posting period, and must
provide information in a manner that can be readily understood by
workers.






Warning signs for non-fumigants




6.87


Warning signs for the application of moderately and very toxic
pesticides, other than fumigants in enclosed spaces, must display




(a)

a skull and crossbones symbol,




(b)

the word WARNING in a language that can be readily understood by the
workers and in letters large enough to be read at a distance of
8 m (25 ft),




(c)

the name of the pesticide and the date of application,




(d)

the expiry date of the restricted entry interval as determined in
section 6.89, and




(e)

instructions to obtain permission to enter before the expiry date of
the restricted entry interval.






Warning signs for fumigants




6.88


The warning sign for the application of a fumigant in an enclosed
space must display




(a)

a skull and crossbones symbol,




(b)

the words DANGER, DEADLY FUMIGANT GAS, KEEP OUT in a language that can
be readily understood by the workers and in letters large enough to be
read at a distance of 8 m (25 ft),




(c)

the name of the fumigant,




(d)

the name of the applicator, and




(e)

emergency telephone numbers for both day and night.






Restricted entry intervals




6.89

(1)


Except as permitted under section 6.90, an employer must ensure that a
person does not enter a treated area until the restricted entry
interval has expired.




(2)

The length of the restricted entry interval required by subsection (1)
is as follows:




(a)

if the label of the applied pesticide states a single restricted entry
interval, the time period stated on the label;




(b)

if the label of the applied pesticide states different restricted
entry intervals for different activities, the time period stated on
the label for the activity most closely resembling the activity being
conducted;




(c)

if more than one pesticide is applied and the labels of each state
different restricted entry intervals, the longest time period stated;




(d)

if the label of the applied pesticide does not state a restricted
entry interval,




(i)

24 hours if the pesticide is classified as slightly toxic, or




(ii)

48 hours if the pesticide is classified as moderately or very toxic or
is part of a mixture in which a moderately or very toxic pesticide is
present;




(e)

if more than one pesticide is applied and the label of at least one
pesticide does not state a restricted entry interval, the longer of




(i)

the longest time period stated on any label of the other pesticides,
and




(ii)

the time period required by paragraph (d) (i) or (ii), as applicable.




(3)

An employer must ensure that, in addition to not entering a treated
area until the applicable restricted entry interval has expired,
workers comply with all safety information, including user directions
and safety precautions, stated on any label of the pesticides being
applied.

[en. B.C. Reg. 139/2021, App. A, s. 5.]





Authorization to enter before restricted entry interval expires




6.90

(1)


In this section:


"emergency"
means any sudden occurrence or set of circumstances




(a)

that an employer could not have anticipated,




(b)

over which an employer has no control, and




(c)

that requires a worker to enter a treated area during a restricted
entry interval because no alternative practices would prevent or
mitigate




(i)

injury to persons, or




(ii)

substantial damage to crops or property;



"hand labour activity"





(a)

subject to paragraph (b), means an activity or task performed by hand
or using hand tools that causes a worker to have substantial dermal
contact with plants or parts of plants, soil or a surface that may
contain pesticide residues, and




(b)

does not include operating, moving or repairing




(i)

irrigation or watering equipment, except hand-set irrigation, or




(ii)

other equipment that is not directly used to apply pesticides.




(2)

If an employer authorizes a worker to enter a treated area before the
restricted entry interval expires, the employer must ensure all of the
following:




(a)

that the worker




(i)

does not enter the treated area earlier than 4 hours after the
pesticide application is completed,




(ii)

is not in the treated area for more than one hour in a 24 hour period,
and




(iii)

does not perform a hand labour activity until the expiry of the
restricted entry interval;




(b)

that hazards to the worker have been assessed by a qualified person;




(c)

that the treated area is effectively ventilated using either natural
or mechanical means, and




(i)

the atmosphere has been tested, if practicable, or




(ii)

evaluated by a qualified person and declared safe to enter;




(d)

that the worker is provided with, wears and uses correctly personal
protective clothing and equipment appropriate to the hazards assessed
under paragraph (b);




(e)

that the worker follows safe work procedures;




(f)

that, if the worker may be incapacitated after entry, provision has
been made for rescue in a manner that meets the requirements of
section 6.80.




(3)

If an employer authorizes a worker to enter a treated area during an
emergency before the restricted entry interval expires, the employer
must ensure all of the following:




(a)

that the requirements of subsection (2) (b) to (f) are met;




(b)

that emergency washing facilities as required under section 5.85 are
available.

[en. B.C. Reg. 139/2021, App. A, s. 5.]





Record of entry before restricted entry interval expires




6.90.1

(1)


In addition to the record that must be kept under section 6.94, an
employer must ensure that a record of all of the following is
completed within 24 hours of a worker entering a treated area before
the restricted entry interval expires:




(a)

if entry was during an emergency,




(i)

the date and location of the emergency,




(ii)

the time the emergency started and ended, and




(iii)

a description of the emergency, including an estimate of the type of
injury or the amount of crop or property damage that would have
occurred without early entry to the treated area;




(b)

the restricted entry interval that applies under section 6.89 (2);




(c)

the name of the worker who entered the treated area, and the times at
which the worker entered and exited the treated area.




(2)

The record referred to in subsection (1) must be kept for at least 10
years.

[en. B.C. Reg. 139/2021, App. A, s. 5.]





Exemptions




6.91

(1)


In this section,

"structural pesticide application"

means the use of any method or device, or the application of any
substance, that includes a pesticide to prevent, control or
exterminate a pest in, on, under or near a structure, except in
relation to the prevention, control or extermination of pests that
affect plants.




(2)

An employer is exempt from the requirements of sections 6.85 to 6.90.1
with respect to structural pesticide applications as follows:




(a)

the application, by means of spot treatment or crack and crevice
treatment, of small quantities of slightly toxic pesticides if




(i)

the methods used minimize the release of aerosols and residues on work
surfaces, and




(ii)

a qualified person determines that workers are not at risk of
exposure;




(b)

the application, in circumstances of restricted exposure including
spot treatment and crack and crevice treatment, of small quantities of
moderately toxic pesticides if




(i)

the methods used minimize the release of aerosols and residues in the
treated area,




(ii)

the treated area is clearly identified,




(iii)

during application, no hazardous accidental release of pesticide
occurs, and




(iv)

a qualified person




(A)

determines, before application, that persons occupying the treated
area are not at risk of exposure,




(B)

notifies persons occupying the treated area, before application, of
any entry precautions applicable to the application, and




(C)

inspects the treated area after application to confirm compliance with
this subsection.




(3)

An employer is exempt from the requirements of sections 6.85 to 6.90.1
with respect to the handling and application of biocides and
slimicides if all of the following conditions are met:




(a)

the method of handling and distributing the biocide or slimicide
minimizes the release of aerosols and residues on work surfaces;




(b)

areas where the biocide or slimicide is handled or distributed are
clearly identified, and entry into these areas is restricted to
authorized workers.

[en. B.C. Reg. 139/2021, App. A, s. 5.]





Cleanup of residues




6.92


The employer must ensure that surfaces used for food preparation and
eating, and work surfaces likely to come in contact with workers'
unprotected skin are cleaned and free of pesticide residues.






Pesticide drift




6.93

(1)


An employer must ensure that all reasonable precautions are taken to
prevent the drift or spread of a pesticide from a workplace under the
employer's control.




(2)

If a pesticide under the control of an employer has drifted or spread
to a workplace occupied or used by another employer, the first
employer must notify the second of the identity of the pesticide, the
nature of its harmful characteristics and the precautions required for
the safety of workers.




(3)

The employer to whose property a pesticide has drifted or spread must
take all reasonable steps to




(a)

identify the pesticide and advise any persons who may be exposed to it
of the nature of the pesticide, its harmful characteristics and the
precautions required for safety, and




(b)

ensure that any hazards to persons from exposure to the pesticide are
eliminated or controlled.






Records




6.94


The employer must maintain a record of pesticide applications which
includes, for each application,




(a)

the pesticide used and location of application,




(b)

the date and time at which the application was completed,




(c)

the date on which workers were allowed to re-enter, and




(d)

if applicable, the type of crop treated, rate of application and the
number of acres or hectares treated.




Personal Hygiene





Wash and shower facilities




6.95

(1)


The employer must supply and maintain adequate wash facilities and, if
there is the risk of body contamination, shower facilities as required
by section 5.82, to all workers when




(a)

mixing, loading or applying pesticides, or handling concentrates or
wet-treated lumber,




(b)

cleaning, maintaining or handling equipment, materials or surfaces
contaminated with pesticide residues, or




(c)

entering fields where pesticides have been applied and where contact
with pesticide residues may contaminate protective clothing and body
areas.




(2)

The wash and shower facilities required by subsection (1) must be in
close proximity to the places where pesticides are used or handled,
but must be separate from food preparation, lunchrooms and eating
areas.






Worker cleanup




6.96


A worker must immediately cleanse any body area contaminated with
pesticide.






Personal protective clothing and equipment




6.97


If a worker mixes, loads or applies pesticides or if a worker cleans,
maintains or handles equipment, materials or surfaces contaminated
with pesticide residues, the employer must ensure that




(a)

the worker is provided with and wears suitable protective clothing and
equipment,




(b)

contaminated protective clothing and equipment is stored in a secure
place and not used until it is laundered or otherwise cleaned,




(c)

if required, adequate facilities or services to launder contaminated
protective clothing are available,




(d)

at least one change of outer protective clothing for each worker is
available at the work site, and




(e)

a change room or sheltered place is provided where workers can change
clothes and store personal clothing while wearing protective clothing.




Avicides, Predicides, Rodenticides and Insecticidal Baits





Exemption




6.98


Sections 6.80 and 6.85 to 6.91 do not apply where an avicide,
predicide, rodenticide or insecticidal bait is used or applied in
solid or liquid form, unless the pesticide label specifies otherwise.






Preventive measures




6.99


For a pesticide exempted in section 6.98 the employer must ensure that




(a)

adequate measures are taken for the protection of the applicator
including the use of safe work procedures, the provision and use of
personal protective equipment and the provision of adequate hand
washing facilities,




(b)

the pesticide is applied, where practicable, in areas not readily
accessible to unauthorized persons, and away from areas of normal work
activity, and




(c)

a worker who is required to enter the area or location where the
pesticide has been applied is notified of the location of the
pesticide application, the physical description of the pesticide and
the device, if any, in which it is placed, and the precautions that
must be observed.




Storage





Location




6.100


The employer must ensure that pesticides are not stored in areas where
food preparation occurs, in lunchrooms, or in food storage areas.






Storage facilities




6.101

(1)


The employer must supply a pesticide storage facility that meets the
design criteria stated in the manual
Standard Practices for Pesticide Applicators
, published by the Workers' Compensation Board of BC, for the storage
of bulk or reserve quantities of pesticides.




(2)

Factors that must be considered in the facility design include




(a)

maintenance of minimal quantities,




(b)

compatibility of pesticides,




(c)

strength of shelving materials, and




(d)

containment of spills.






Retail displays




6.102


The employer must ensure that shelving and retail displays for
pesticides are designed to provide safe storage and to minimize the
possibility of spills.




Antisapstain Applications





Substitution




6.103


An employer must investigate antisapstain materials and, whenever
practicable, substitute an alternate material for a material in use,
if




(a)

the hazards of the substitute are known, and




(b)

the risk to workers is reduced.






Ventilation




6.104

(1)


The employer must install and maintain an effective local exhaust
ventilation system on all spray box application equipment to contain
overspray and control worker exposure to the chemicals.




(2)

The employer must ensure that the ventilation system for a spray box
provides an inward air flow across the hood face at least equal to the
velocity of the lumber on the outfeed conveyor.






Cleaning equipment




6.105


The employer must clean a metal surface of antisapstain material
before any welding, burning or cutting operation is done on it.






Excess chemical




6.106


The employer must control the flooding of wood being treated by the
use of




(a)

mist eliminators,




(b)

curtains on the spray box enclosure openings,




(c)

regulation of the spray flows, or




(d)

other acceptable measures.






Protective clothing




6.107


A worker handling wet treated lumber must remove protective equipment
before leaving the restricted work area.






Records




6.108


The employer must keep records and SDSs on all previously used
antisapstain materials if a change of chemical has occurred and the
equipment or work areas have not been adequately decontaminated, and
this information must be readily available to workers.

[am. B.C. Reg. 30/2015, s. 31.]





Exemption




6.109

(1)


The requirements of sections 6.85 to 6.91 with respect to warning
signs and restricted entry intervals do not apply to the application
of antisapstain materials, unless the pesticide label specifies
otherwise.




(2)

Areas of antisapstain application must be clearly identified to
workers.




(3)

Entry into work areas where antisapstain materials are handled or
applied must be restricted to authorized personnel.




Respirable Crystalline Silica and Rock Dust





Definitions




6.110

(1)


In this section and sections 6.111 to 6.112.7:



"abrasive blasting"

means the cleaning, smoothing, roughening or removing of a surface or
part of a surface by the use of an abrasive that is




(a)

comprised of a jet of sand, metal shot, grit, or another material, and




(b)

propelled by compressed air or steam, or by a wheel;



"blasting enclosure"

means a chamber, barrel, cabinet or a purpose-built structure in which
abrasive blasting occurs;



"cleaning of castings"

means, in connection with making metal castings,




(a)

the freeing of metal castings from adherent sand or another substance
containing silica, other than the freeing of metal castings from scale
formed during annealing or heat treatment,




(b)

the removal of cores from metal castings, and




(c)

the smoothing of metal castings where freeing is done;



"control measures"

include the measures set out in section 6.112.2;



"dust reduction system"

means the following, alone or in combination:




(a)

the use of a process or material that prevents the creation of RCS
dust;




(b)

the use of an enclosure, including a blasting enclosure, to




(i)

contain RCS dust, or




(ii)

physically separate a worker from a source of RCS dust;




(c)

the use of local exhaust ventilation, being a system of ventilation
designed to capture and remove process emissions or RCS dust before
the emissions or dust escapes into the workplace environment;




(d)

the use of wet systems, being




(i)

the use of water or another liquid to increase moisture content in
material to prevent RCS dust from becoming airborne, or




(ii)

the addition of moisture to the air to capture RCS dust particles that
are already airborne;



"exposure limit"

means the applicable exposure limit as referred to in section 5.48;



"exposure monitoring"

means air monitoring conducted in accordance with section 5.53 (4) or
6.112.3;


"RCS dust"
means any of the following that can be deposited in the lower gas
exchange regions of the lung when inhaled:




(a)

respirable crystalline silica;




(b)

respirable α-quartz;




(c)

respirable cristobalite;



"risk assessment"

means a written risk assessment conducted in accordance with section
6.112;



"sandblasting"

means an abrasive blasting process that uses silica sand as an
abrasive;



"silica flour"

means the fine powder produced by the crushing, grinding or ball
milling of a siliceous substance;



"silica process"

means the following processes, as well as any other process that may
result in the release of RCS dust in concentrations likely to exceed
the exposure limit:




(a)

sandblasting;




(b)

cleaning of castings;




(c)

abrasive blasting, grinding, sanding or dressing of any surface that
contains crystalline silica;




(d)

blasting, cutting, crushing, drilling, grinding, milling, scaling,
splitting or sieving, or other mechanical pulverizing or shattering,
of rock, siliceous stone or gravel;




(e)

concrete or asphalt milling, shotcreting, pneumatic drilling,
tunnelling or other large-scale mechanical processes that may generate
RCS dust;




(f)

using heavy equipment or pneumatics to transfer sand, earth, aggregate
or other material that contains silica, and associated transport,
recycling and disposal operations;




(g)

a process in which silica flour is used, including using it as an
additive in product manufacturing;




(h)

manufacturing, dismantling, demolishing or repairing of concrete,
masonry or other material that contains silica;




(i)

using power tools or equipment to abrade, cut, grind, core or drill
concrete, masonry or other material that contains silica;


"siliceous"
means any group of sedimentary rocks that consist largely or almost
entirely of silicon dioxide (SiO
2
), including diatomite.




(2)

In this section, a reference to concrete, masonry or other material
refers to a hard stone-like building material made




(a)

of clay, or




(b)

by mixing, with water or another liquid,




(i)

cement, or




(ii)

a combination of cement, sand, gravel, broken stone or another
aggregate.

[en. B.C. Reg. 9/2017, App. G, s. 2.]





Application




6.111


Sections 6.112 to 6.112.7 apply to a workplace where a worker is or
may be




(a)

engaged in a silica process, or




(b)

exposed to potentially harmful levels of RCS dust.

[en. B.C. Reg. 9/2017, App. G, s. 2.]





Risk assessment




6.112

(1)


In this section,
"existing monitoring data"
means data




(a)

gathered under section 5.53 or 6.112.3, or




(b)

as described in section 6.112.4 (2) (b).




(2)

An employer must not permit workers to engage in a work activity or a
silica process that may expose workers to RCS dust unless a risk
assessment has first been completed by a qualified person.




(3)

The risk assessment must include consideration of all of the
following:




(a)

the hazards of RCS dust, including the exposure limit;




(b)

any information contained on a label or in a safety data sheet
provided by a supplier, manufacturer or employer in respect of




(i)

the crystalline silica content in the materials to be used in the
silica process, and




(ii)

the health effects of RCS dust exposure;




(c)

the scope, circumstances and nature of the work activity or silica
process, including




(i)

whether section 5.50 applies, given the length of a shift,




(ii)

any changes between shifts in the scope, circumstances or nature of
the work activity or silica process, and




(iii)

the potential level and duration of exposure to RCS dust during the
work activity or while engaging in the silica process;




(d)

the effectiveness of existing and planned control measures, as
determined through exposure monitoring, to prevent or minimize worker
exposure to RCS dust, including with respect to access to the
workplace by unprotected workers;




(e)

any additional information the employer needs to complete the risk
assessment.




(4)

A qualified person may rely on existing monitoring data for the
purpose of assessing control measures under subsection (3) (d) only if
it is reasonable to do so based on




(a)

the relevance of the existing monitoring data, and




(b)

whether additional air monitoring may be needed to reassess the
effectiveness of existing and planned control measures because of
changes in personnel or to the scope, circumstances or nature of the
work activity or silica process.




(5)

An employer must ensure that the risk assessment is reviewed by a
qualified person if any of the following occur:




(a)

there is reason to believe the risk assessment is no longer valid;




(b)

there has been a significant change in the scope, nature or
circumstances of the work activity or silica process to which the risk
assessment relates;




(c)

the results of any exposure monitoring show it to be necessary.




(6)

If changes to the risk assessment are necessary as a result of the
review under subsection (5), the employer must ensure that the risk
assessment is changed accordingly.

[en. B.C. Reg. 9/2017, App. G, s. 2.]





Exposure control plan




6.112.1

(1)


If a risk assessment indicates that a worker is or may be exposed to
RCS dust, the employer must




(a)

ensure that a qualified person develops an exposure control plan
meeting the requirements of sections 5.54 and 5.57 (2), and of
subsection (3) of this section, and




(b)

implement the exposure control plan.




(2)

If a risk assessment is changed under section 6.112 (6), the employer
must ensure that




(a)

the exposure control plan is amended to address the changes to the
risk assessment, and




(b)

the amendments to the exposure control plan are implemented.




(3)

For the purposes of section 5.54 (2) (d), the written work procedures
within an exposure control plan must address at least the following:




(a)

the containment of silica processes, if used as a control measure;




(b)

the effective control of worker exposure to RCS dust using dust
reduction systems;




(c)

safe work practices and procedures;




(d)

the correct selection, use, care and maintenance of any required
personal protective equipment and clothing;




(e)

emergency procedures;




(f)

the removal, cleanup and disposal of RCS dust and debris, including
the measures that will be used for the purposes of meeting the
requirements of section 6.112.6.

[en. B.C. Reg. 9/2017, App. G, s. 2.]





Elimination or control of exposure




6.112.2

(1)


An employer must, to the extent practicable, avoid the use of products
or materials containing crystalline silica by replacing them with
substances or processes that, under normal conditions of use,
eliminate the risk of worker exposure to RCS dust.




(2)

If it is not practicable to eliminate the risk of worker exposure to
RCS dust, the employer must control the risk below the applicable
exposure limit under section 5.48 by applying control measures that




(a)

are appropriate to the work activity,




(b)

are consistent with the risk assessment and with sections 5.55 and
5.57, and




(c)

include, in order of priority,




(i)

the design and use of engineering controls, including appropriate dust
reduction systems, containment of silica processes, and the provision
and use of suitable work equipment and materials,




(ii)

the control of RCS dust exposure through administrative controls,
including work practice controls, and




(iii)

if the control measures set out in paragraphs (i) and (ii) are not
adequate to control exposure, the provision and use of suitable
personal protective equipment in addition to those control measures.

[en. B.C. Reg. 9/2017, App. G, s. 2.]





Air monitoring for RCS dust




6.112.3

(1)


If there is a potential for hazardous exposure to RCS dust in a work
activity or silica process, the employer must




(a)

ensure that air monitoring is conducted using a sampling and
analytical method referred to in subsection (2)




(i)

during the first shift of the work activity or silica process, and




(ii)

as necessary throughout the work activity or silica process to ensure
that control measures are effective to prevent or minimize worker
exposure to RCS dust, and




(b)

keep, for at least 10 years, records of the results of air monitoring
conducted under this section.




(2)

Acceptable sampling and analytical methods for the purpose of
subsection (1) are as follows:




(a)

a method detailed in a standard occupational hygiene reference
published by




(i)

the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, or




(ii)

the Occupational Safety and Health Administration;




(b)

another method acceptable to the Board.

[en. B.C. Reg. 9/2017, App. G, s. 2.]





Exceptions to monitoring requirement




6.112.4

(1)


In this section,
"equivalent work operations"
means work operations closely matching the silica processes, types of
materials, work practices, control measures and environmental
conditions prevailing in the employer's current work operations.




(2)

Despite section 6.112.3, an employer is not required to monitor the
exposure of workers to RCS dust if a qualified person determines that




(a)

existing control measures are effective in keeping worker exposure as
low as reasonably achievable below the exposure limit, and




(b)

the employer




(i)

has previously monitored for RCS dust exposure during equivalent work
operations and there is no reason to believe that the results of the
previous monitoring would not continue to apply, or




(ii)

has objective air monitoring data that was collected during equivalent
work operations through industry surveys or peer-reviewed or
scientific studies that use sampling and analytical methods referred
to in section 6.112.3 (2).




(3)

An employer must keep, for at least 10 years, a record documenting the
following, as applicable:




(a)

the previous monitoring data used for the purpose of subsection (2)
(b) (i);




(b)

the source of the objective air monitoring data, and the data itself,
referred to in subsection (2) (b) (ii).

[en. B.C. Reg. 9/2017, App. G, s. 2.]





Blasting enclosures




6.112.5


An employer must ensure that a blasting enclosure is used for the
following activities only:




(a)

abrasive blasting;




(b)

maintenance of the blasting enclosure and all associated equipment,
including ventilation and blasting equipment.

[en. B.C. Reg. 9/2017, App. G, s. 2.]





Housekeeping




6.112.6

(1)


In addition to the requirements of section 5.82 (2), an employer must
ensure that all of the following requirements are met:




(a)

all workplaces and work-related areas and equipment where RCS dust may
accumulate must be cleaned at the end of every shift, if practicable,
using one or a combination of




(i)

a vacuum or similar device,




(ii)

wet cleanup methods, or




(iii)

another method that is effective and in accordance with the safe work
practices contained in the exposure control plan;




(b)

if a vacuum or similar device is used, the vacuum or device must be




(i)

designed, maintained, tested and used in accordance with




(A)

the manufacturer's specifications, or




(B)

the instructions of a professional engineer, and




(ii)

equipped with an effective HEPA filter on the exhaust;




(c)

if wet cleanup methods are used, any slurry generated by those methods
must be removed when the work is completed in such as manner as to
avoid a secondary RCS dust exposure hazard;




(d)

waste material must be placed in sealable containers and promptly
disposed of to prevent RCS dust from re-entering the workplace.




(2)

An employer must not permit the use of blowers, compressed air, dry
sweeping or dry mopping to clean up or remove RCS dust.

[en. B.C. Reg. 9/2017, App. G, s. 2.]





Instruction and training




6.112.7


An employer must ensure that a worker who is or may be exposed to RCS
dust receives adequate instruction and training in all of the
following:




(a)

the hazards and health effects of inhaling RCS dust;




(b)

safe work practices and procedures;




(c)

the correct operation and use of any required equipment and
engineering controls;




(d)

the purpose and limitations of personal protective equipment, and the
correct selection, fitting, use, care and maintenance of that
equipment;




(e)

housekeeping practices as described in section 6.112.6.

[en. B.C. Reg. 9/2017, App. G, s. 2.]





Rock drills




6.113


A rock drill, other than a manually-powered rock drill, must be
equipped with a dust suppression system, acceptable to the Board, that




(a)

uses water jet, spray, or other equally effective means to suppress
drilling dust effectively, and




(b)

operates whenever the drill is in use.






Crushing plants




6.114


Crushing plants must be equipped with the following dust controls:




(a)

crushers, including jaw, roll, cone, or hammer-mills must have an
effective mechanical exhaust system;




(b)

screens releasing dust must be partially covered and have an effective
mechanical exhaust system or an effective water spray system;




(c)

the screen discharge hopper must be enclosed and if dust is released
must have an effective mechanical exhaust system or an effective water
spray system;




(d)

material transfer points releasing dust must have an effective
mechanical exhaust system or an effective water spray system;




(e)

a suitable dust collector must be installed on a mechanical exhaust
system;




(f)

dust discharged from a mechanical exhaust ventilation system must not
be recirculated into work areas;




(g)

when practicable, the operator must be enclosed in a pressurized cab
equipped with air filtration and noise suppression.

[am. B.C. Reg. 9/2017, App. G, s. 3.]





Asphalt mixing plants




6.115


Asphalt mixing plants must be equipped with the following dust
controls:




(a)

a dust-tight seal must be installed at the dryer discharge to the hot
stone elevator;




(b)

the screen enclosure must have a mechanical exhaust system that
maintains a negative pressure within the screen enclosure and the
elevator feed system;




(c)

the mixing chamber must have a mechanical exhaust system that
maintains a negative pressure on the bin discharge to the mixer or
elevator feed system;




(d)

on continuous-mix plants the conveyor feeding the mixing chamber must
be enclosed and connected to the mechanical exhaust system;




(e)

the screen overflow chutes and hoppers handling screen overflow must
be enclosed, and the waste fines conveyor system must be enclosed at
all material transfer and discharge points;




(f)

the discharge of overflow or waste fines material must be to an
enclosed container, which must be emptied in a manner that prevents
contamination of the work area;




(g)

material transfer points between sections of the asphalt mixing plant
must be fitted with effective dust seals;




(h)

conveyor and elevator cover seals must be dust-tight;




(i)

on batch-mix plants, dust-tight seals must be installed on manual draw
chute levers and on the weigh-hopper and bin;




(j)

a suitable dust collector must be installed on the mechanical exhaust
system, with the discharge from the dust collector located so as to
prevent the recirculation of contaminated air to areas occupied by
workers.






Application of RCS dust provisions




6.115.1


For greater certainty, in respect of a workplace described in section
6.111, the requirements set out in sections 6.113 to 6.115 are in
addition to the requirements set out in sections 6.112 to 6.112.7.

[en. B.C. Reg. 9/2017, App. G, s. 4.]



Toxic Process Gases





Definitions




6.116


In sections 6.117 to 6.132:


"enclosure"
means a room, cabinet or separation designed to contain equipment,
machinery and vessels and to isolate accidental releases of toxic gas;



"toxic process gas"

means a gas which




(a)

meets the HPR Health Hazard Class — Acute Toxicity, Categories 1, 2
and 3 or the categories set out in the following table:






HPR Health Hazard

Classes



Hazard Categories






Skin corrosion / irritation


1A
1B
1C
2





Serious eye damage / irritation

1




2A
2B



Respiratory or skin sensitization


1A
1B






Mutagenicity

1A
1B

2




Carcinogenicity

1A
1B

2





Reproductive toxicity


1A
1B

2





Specific organ toxicity

(repeated exposure)

1



2





, and



(b)

is used for purposes of




(i)

an industrial process in which a precursor is changed into a product,




(ii)

refrigeration by means of a piped installation, or




(iii)

treatment of materials, for example, in a disinfection system.

[am. B.C. Regs. 253/2001, s. 4; 30/2015, s. 32.]





Application




6.117


Sections 6.118 to 6.132 apply to operations in which a toxic process
gas is used, but do not apply to the handling or storage of flammable
fuel gases or vapours, toxic waste emissions or the use of toxic
process gases in manufactured articles.






Risk assessment




6.118


The employer must ensure that a risk assessment is conducted for toxic
process gases.






Exposure control plan




6.119


If there is a risk of adverse health effect to workers from exposure
to a toxic process gas, based on the risk assessment, the employer
must develop and implement an exposure control plan meeting the
requirements of section 5.54.






Procedures




6.120

(1)


The employer must ensure that written work procedures providing
instructions for the safe handling of the toxic process gas are
prepared for all hazardous tasks in accordance with the risk
assessment results, critical technical information and operations
manuals.




(2)

The employer must ensure that emergency procedures designed for the
safe evacuation and rescue of all workers are established and tested
on a regular basis.




(3)

The procedures required by subsections (1) and (2) must be readily
available to the workers at the workplace.






Education and training




6.121


The employer must ensure that




(a)

workers are capable of operating the equipment and machinery in a safe
manner by providing effective education and training, and




(b)

records of education and training are maintained.




(c)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. F, s. 2 (d).]

[am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. F, s. 4.]





Enclosure




6.122


Where practicable, the employer must locate equipment and machinery
such as tanks and compressors, handling toxic process gases in a
separate enclosure that is




(a)

designed, constructed and maintained to prevent fugitive emissions and
accidental releases from entering occupied work areas,




(b)

provided with exhaust ventilation to ensure an effective inward air
flow into the enclosure at all times,




(c)

provided with a safe means of entry and exit,




(d)

designated as a restricted work area limited to entry by authorized
personnel, and




(e)

posted with signs which clearly identify the hazards and the
precautions required for safe entry.






Testing




6.123


The employer must provide a safe means to check and test conditions
inside an enclosure before entry by authorized workers.






Ventilation




6.124


The employer must




(a)

ensure that ventilation systems are designed to exhaust toxic process
gases directly to the outdoors in a safe manner,




(b)

ensure that grilles providing makeup air from adjacent occupied areas
are equipped with gas-rated, back-draft dampers,




(c)

monitor critical parts of the ventilation systems, such as fan, motor
and air flow, to ensure that workers are alerted to a malfunction of
the system,




(d)

ensure that ventilation ducting is vapour proof, dedicated and
resistant to corrosion by the gas it carries, and




(e)

where practicable, locate the fans on the outside of the building or
structure to maintain the duct work within occupied work areas under a
negative pressure differential.






Emergency ventilation




6.125


The employer must provide emergency ventilation that can be safely
activated in emergency situations to ensure containment and control of
an accidental release of a toxic process gas.






Shut-down device




6.126

(1)


In the event of an emergency or accidental release, the employer must
ensure that




(a)

the gas supply can be shut down manually from a remote location or by
the alarm system so as to isolate the reserve supply within the system
and stop the generation or flow of the gas, or




(b)

if the control measures required by paragraph (a) are not practicable,
other effective measures, acceptable to the Board, are implemented to
protect workers and other persons from exposure to the gas.




(2)

When an automated or remote shut-down device is activated, the
employer must ensure that operators are alerted to the emergency
shut-down of the system.

[en. B.C. Reg. 381/2004, s. 2.]





Personal protective equipment




6.127

(1)


The employer must provide appropriate personal protective equipment
and ensure that workers wear it.




(2)

A worker performing a hazardous work procedure on equipment or
machinery where there is the risk of toxic process gas being released
directly into the breathing zone, such as cylinder changing, system or
line purging or draining, and leak detection and repair, must wear an
appropriate respirator.




(3)

A worker entering a restricted access enclosure must wear or carry an
escape respirator.

[am. B.C. Reg. 312/2010, App. G, s. 4.]





Monitors and alarms




6.128

(1)


Where practicable, the employer must install continuous monitoring
systems that detect fugitive emissions and accidental releases and
effectively determine work conditions within the restricted access
area.




(2)

Continuous monitors must be connected to alarm systems to adequately
warn workers of hazardous conditions and, when practicable, must be
designed to safely activate appropriate control measures when
emergency situations are detected.




(3)

Monitoring and alarm systems must be




(a)

tested at least monthly for proper operation, and




(b)

calibrated at least annually,


by authorized personnel using procedures set out in section 4.3 (2) or
other procedures acceptable to the Board.


[am. B.C. Regs. 312/2003, App. B, s. 8; 188/2011, App. M, s. 2.]






Pressure relief alarm systems




6.129

(1)


The employer must ensure that all pressure relief valves or similar
safety-release devices direct relief gases to the outdoors in a safe
manner.




(2)

The employer must ensure that an alarm or any other reporting system
designed to inform the operators of a malfunction or emergency
activates if a pressure relief safety device is engaged.






Identification of controls




6.130


The employer must ensure that




(a)

all critical components of equipment and machinery handling toxic
process gases are clearly identified, and




(b)

the function of every control device can be readily determined.






Piping systems




6.131

(1)


The employer must ensure that a piping system is




(a)

constructed of compatible materials resistant to corrosion by the gas
it carries,




(b)

constructed to withstand the system pressures to which it will be
subjected, and




(c)

safely routed, supported and protected from impact damage, shock and
vibration.




(2)

The employer must ensure that piping and valve systems are leak and
pressure tested, as required, before the system is put into operation.




(3)

The employer must ensure that piping systems are equipped with
isolation, pressure venting or bleed valves designed to purge the
lines safely of residual gases before maintenance or servicing
procedures.






Maintenance




6.132


The employer must ensure that the servicing and maintenance of
equipment and machinery addresses all critical components.

[am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 9.]



Contents
|



Parts 1 to 3

|


Part 4
|


Part 5
|

Part 6 |

Part 7
|


Part 8
|


Part 9
|



Parts 10 to 11

|


Part 12
|


Part 13
|


Part 14
|


Part 15
|


Part 16
|



Parts 17 to 18

|


Part 19
|


Part 20
|


Part 21
|


Part 22
|


Part 23
|


Part 24
|



Parts 25 to 26

|


Part 27
|


Part 28
|



Parts 29 to 34

|



Schedules





