





View Complete Statute



Financial Institutions Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 141



Part 5 — Related Parties





Interpretation and designation of related parties




144

(1)


In this Part, a
"related party"
of a financial institution means a person who




(a)

is a director or senior officer of the financial institution or of the
holding company of the financial institution or is acting in a similar
capacity in respect of an unincorporated entity that controls the
financial institution,




(b)

is a member of a prescribed class of employees of the financial
institution or the holding company of the financial institution,




(c)

owns directly 10% or more of the non-voting shares in the financial
institution, not counting any non-equity shares in the case of a
credit union,




(d)

owns or controls, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of any class of
voting shares in the financial institution,




(e)

is a sole practitioner who is an auditor of the financial institution,




(f)

is actively engaged in auditing the financial institution and is a
partner in a partnership that is an auditor of the financial
institution,




(g)

is the spouse of an individual who is a related party under
paragraph (a), (b), (c), (d) or (j) or under
subsection (2),




(h)

is a child who is less than 18 years of age of an individual who is a
related party under paragraph (a), (b), (c), (d) or (j) or under
subsection (2),




(i)

is a corporation in which a person who is a related party under
paragraph (a), (b), (c), (d) or (j) or under
subsection (2) has or controls, directly or indirectly, more than 50%
of the votes that are attached to the outstanding voting shares of the
corporation and that may be cast in the election of the directors, or




(j)

is designated under subsection (3) as a related party,

but does not include,



(k)

when used in relation to a credit union, a central credit union or an
entity that is designated by regulation, or




(l)

when used in relation to a central credit union,




(i)

a member of the central credit union,




(ii)

a cooperative credit society incorporated under the

Cooperative Credit Associations Act

(Canada), or




(iii)

an entity that is designated by regulation, and a member or
shareholder of that entity.




(2)

An individual who, having been a related party under
subsection (1) (a), (b), (c), (d) or (j)
of a financial institution, ceases to be a related party under that
subsection nevertheless continues for the purposes of this Part to be
a related party of the financial institution for the 12 months
commencing on the date the individual ceases to be a related party as
defined in subsection (1) (a), (b), (c), (d) or (j).




(3)

For the purposes of this Part, the superintendent by order may




(a)

designate a person as a related party of a financial institution if in
the superintendent's opinion there exists between the person and the
financial institution an interest or relationship that might
reasonably be expected to affect the exercise of the best judgment of
an officer or director of the financial institution with respect to an
investment, loan or other transaction, or




(b)

designate a person as a related party of the financial institution if
in the superintendent's opinion the person is acting in concert with
one or more other persons to own or control, directly or indirectly,
10% or more of any class of voting shares in the financial
institution.






When related party transactions are permitted




145


A financial institution or a subsidiary of it may enter into the
following transactions with related parties:




(a)

pay or confer a salary, fee, stock option, pension, benefit or
incentive benefit to a director or senior officer of the financial
institution, or to a person who is in the class of employees
prescribed for the purpose of section 144 (1) (b) or designated under
section 144 (3);




(b)

provide to related parties of the financial institution, at not less
than fair market value, services or products that the financial
institution or the subsidiary also provides in the ordinary course of
its business to the public or, in the case of a credit union, to its
members;




(c)

if the aggregate amount outstanding under all loans to an individual
who is a related party of the financial institution will not exceed
the prescribed amount, counting the amount of the intended loan, make
a loan to an individual who is a related party of the financial
institution under paragraph (a) or (b) of the definition of "related
party" in section 144;




(d)

buy from, or sell to, a related party of the financial institution,
for a nominal amount, as defined in the regulations, property or
services having a fair market value that does not exceed that nominal
amount.






Conduct review committee's power to approve other transactions




146

(1)


Except for a transaction that is described in section 145 or that is
the subject of a consent under section 147, a financial institution or
a subsidiary of it must not enter into a transaction with a related
party of the financial institution unless the transaction, at the time
it is entered into, is




(a)

a specific transaction, or




(b)

in a class of transactions


approved in writing for the purpose of this section by the conduct
review committee of the financial institution.




(2)

The conduct review committee of a financial institution must not
approve a specific transaction or class of transactions for the
purpose of this section unless the specific transaction or class of
transactions is in the best interests of the financial institution or,
if entered into by a subsidiary of it, in the best interests of both
the financial institution and the subsidiary.




(3)

The conduct review committee must specify in the written approval
referred to in subsection (1) the factors considered by it in
determining whether the specific transaction or the class of
transactions is in the best interests of the financial institution or
the financial institution and its subsidiary, as the case may be, and
the factors considered must include




(a)

the fair market value of the consideration paid by or received by the
financial institution or the subsidiary,




(b)

the nature of the transaction in relation to the usual business of the
financial institution or the subsidiary,




(c)

in the case of a transaction involving a loan by the financial
institution or the subsidiary, the nature of the security and its
value in relation to the principal amount of the loan, and




(d)

prescribed factors.






When superintendent may consent to related party transactions




147

(1)


A financial institution or a subsidiary of it may enter into a
transaction with a related party of the financial institution if the
transaction, at the time it is entered into, is




(a)

a specific transaction, or




(b)

in a class of transactions

consented to by the superintendent.



(2)

The superintendent may give a consent under subsection (1) if
satisfied that the specific transaction or that any transaction in the
class of transactions, as the case may be,




(a)

is not and will not be contrary to the interests of




(i)

the financial institution or the subsidiary or both, as the case may
be,




(ii)

depositors or policy holders of the financial institution,




(iii)

any persons for whom the financial institution acts in a fiduciary
capacity, or




(iv)

the related party, and




(b)

does not, will not and is not intended to obscure the financial
condition of the financial institution, of the subsidiary or of the
related party.






Restrictions on self dealing as a fiduciary




148

(1)


Except as provided in this section, a financial institution that holds
money as a fiduciary must not




(a)

invest that money in securities issued by the financial institution or
by a related party of it, or




(b)

use that money in any transaction with a related party of the
financial institution.




(2)

A financial institution may act as a fiduciary in one or more trusts
or estates in which there are securities issued by the financial
institution or a related party of the financial institution if the
securities were




(a)

acquired by the person for whom the financial institution acts as a
fiduciary, or




(b)

held in the trust or estate before the financial institution assumed
responsibility as a fiduciary.




(3)

If a financial institution acts as a fiduciary in one or more trusts
or estates in which securities are held that were issued by the
financial institution or by a related party of it, the financial
institution must not sell or vote the securities or refuse an offer
for them without first receiving the written approval of the conduct
review committee and that committee must enter the reasons for the
sale, vote or refusal in its minutes.




(4)

The conduct review committee at least annually must provide a written
report to the directors of the financial institution on securities
that have been




(a)

issued by the financial institution or by a related party of it, and




(b)

held in a trust or estate by the financial institution as a fiduciary


during its immediately preceding financial year and the conduct review
committee in the report must give the reasons for any approvals given
or denied under subsection (3) during that financial year.




(5)

Even though subsection (1) would otherwise prohibit it from doing so,
a financial institution or a related party of it may




(a)

carry out an express or a specific permission or a direction that is




(i)

made by a court, or




(ii)

contained in an instrument creating a fiduciary duty




(A)

to purchase or sell securities of the financial institution or of the
related party, or




(B)

to enter into a transaction with the financial institution or a
related party of the financial institution, as the case may be,




(b)

if the financial institution or related party does so as a fiduciary,
make an investment in a bond, note or other evidence of indebtedness
that is issued by the financial institution or by the related party,
as the case may be, and for which there is a published market, or




(c)

if the financial institution or related party does so as a fiduciary,
make an investment or enter into a transaction in which one or more
co-fiduciaries of the financial institution or related party can
direct and has or have directed that the investment or transaction be
made without the agreement of the financial institution or related
party.






Disclosure by related parties




149

(1)


Where, in respect of any proposed transaction of the financial
institution or its subsidiary, a financial institution has reason to
believe that the other party to the transaction is a related party of
the financial institution, the financial institution must take all
reasonable steps to obtain from the other party full disclosure, in
writing, of an interest or relationship, direct or indirect, that
would make the other party a related party of the financial
institution.




(2)

A financial institution and a director, officer, employee or agent of
the financial institution may, if acting reasonably, rely on the
information contained in a disclosure received by the financial
institution in accordance with subsection (1) or information otherwise
acquired in respect of a matter that might be the subject of the
disclosure and no action or proceeding lies against the financial
institution or a director, officer, employee or agent for anything
done or omitted in good faith in reliance on the information,
including without limitation, an action or proceeding under section
150 or 151.




(3)

The disclosure referred to in subsection (1) of this section must not
be relied on under subsection (2) of this section unless it is
evidenced in a consent resolution, the minutes of a meeting or another
record deposited in the financial institution's records office.






Voidable transactions




150

(1)


If




(a)

a financial institution or its subsidiary, director, senior officer or
employee fails to comply with this Part, or




(b)

a transaction that is prohibited under this Part takes place,


the financial institution or superintendent may apply to the Supreme
Court for an order setting aside the transaction.




(2)

On application under subsection (1), the Supreme Court may make any
order it thinks fit, including, instead of or in addition to an order
setting aside the transaction,




(a)

an order that a person




(i)

account for a profit or gain realized in the transaction,




(ii)

pay to the financial institution or a subsidiary of a financial
institution any damages suffered by the financial institution or the
subsidiary in the transaction, or




(iii)

pay to the financial institution or the subsidiary any amount




(A)

paid by the financial institution or the subsidiary,




(B)

lent by the financial institution or the subsidiary, or




(C)

expended by the financial institution or the subsidiary in the
transaction,




(b)

an order for compensation for loss or damage suffered, and




(c)

an order awarding punitive or exemplary damages against any person.




(3)

A person is not liable in a proceeding under this section unless the
person knew or reasonably ought to have known that the transaction was
made in contravention of this Part.






Derivative action




151

(1)


If an action is brought under section 232 of the

Business Corporations Act

or section 84.4 of the

Credit Union Incorporation Act

in relation to a transaction that is prohibited under this Part, the
powers of the Supreme Court include the power to make an order that a
person who authorizes, acquiesces in, participates in or facilitates
the transaction pay to the financial institution or a subsidiary of a
financial institution any




(a)

damages suffered by the financial institution or the subsidiary,




(b)

amount paid by the financial institution or the subsidiary in the
transaction,




(c)

amount lent by the financial institution or the subsidiary, or




(d)

amount expended by the financial institution in the transaction.




(2)

If a transaction that is prohibited under this Part is made or entered
into, the right to bring an action conferred on a complainant by
section 232 (2) (a) and (b) of the

Business Corporations Act

or section 84.4 (2) (a) and (b) of the

Credit Union Incorporation Act

is deemed also to be conferred on the superintendent.






Liability arising from related party transactions




152

(1)


A person who authorizes, acquiesces in, participates in or facilitates
a transaction that is prohibited under this Part is liable in an
action brought under section 232 of the

Business Corporations Act

or section 84.4 of the

Credit Union Incorporation Act

, jointly and severally with every other person who authorizes,
acquiesces in, participates in or facilitates the prohibited
transaction.




(2)

A person is not liable in an action brought under section 232 of the

Business Corporations Act

or section 84.4 of the

Credit Union Incorporation Act

unless the person knew or reasonably ought to have known that the
transaction was made in contravention of this Part.






Burden of proof




153


If a question arises in civil proceedings as to whether a financial
institution, a subsidiary of a financial institution or a related
party of a financial institution has, in acting under this Part, acted
in compliance with the requirements of this Part, the burden of proof
that it acted in compliance with the Part is on the financial
institution, the subsidiary or the related party, as the case may be.






Reporting by auditor




154


If an auditor of a financial institution has made a report to the
directors of a financial institution under section 123 (1) (c), and
the report discloses a breach of a provision of this Part, the auditor
must also immediately report the matter in writing to the
superintendent.






Repealed




155-156


[Repealed 2004-48-71.]




Contents
|


Part 1
|


Part 2
|


Part 3
|


Part 4
|

Part 5 |

Part 6
|


Part 7
|


Part 8
|


Part 9
|



Part 10 and 11





