





View Complete Statute



Strata Property Act
[SBC 1998] CHAPTER 43



Part 11 — Sections





Act applies to strata corporation with sections




190

(1)


Subject to the regulations, the provisions of this Act apply to a
strata corporation with sections.




(2)

If there is a conflict between a provision of this Part and a
provision of another Part, the provision of this Part prevails.






Sections allowed




191

(1)


A strata corporation may have sections only for the purpose of
representing the different interests of




(a)

owners of residential strata lots and owners of nonresidential strata
lots,




(b)

owners of nonresidential strata lots, if they use their strata lots
for significantly different purposes, or




(c)

owners of different types of residential strata lots.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1) (c), strata lots are different
types if they fall within the criteria set out in the regulations.






Creation of sections by owner developer




192


An owner developer may create sections for a strata corporation at the
time the strata plan is deposited by filing in the land title office




(a)

bylaws that provide for the creation and administration of each
section, and




(b)

any resolutions to designate limited common property, in accordance
with section 74, for the exclusive use of all the strata lots in
a section.






Creation or cancellation of sections by strata corporation




193

(1)


To create or cancel sections, the strata corporation must hold an
annual or special general meeting to consider the creation or
cancellation.




(2)

The notice of meeting must include




(a)

a resolution to amend the bylaws to provide for either the creation
and administration of each section or the cancellation of the
sections, and




(b)

any resolutions to designate limited common property, in accordance
with section 74, for the exclusive use of all the strata lots in
a section or to remove a designation in accordance with
section 75.




(3)

The resolution referred to in subsection (2) (a) must be passed




(a)

by a 3/4 vote, and




(b)

by a sectional 3/4 vote.




(3.1)

In this section,
"sectional 3/4 vote"
means a vote in favour of a resolution in relation to a proposed or
existing section by at least 3/4 of the votes cast by eligible voters
in the section who are present in person or by proxy at the time the
vote is taken and who have not abstained from voting.




(4)

On the filing in the land title office of a bylaw amendment creating a
section, a section is created bearing the name "Section
[number of section]
of
[name of strata corporation]
".




(5)

On the creation of a section the registrar may establish a general
index for the section.






Powers and duties of section




194

(1)


After the creation of sections, the strata corporation retains its
powers and duties in matters of common interest to all the owners.




(2)

With respect to a matter that relates solely to the section, the
section is a corporation and has the same powers and duties as the
strata corporation




(a)

to establish its own operating fund and contingency reserve fund for
common expenses of the section, including expenses relating to limited
common property designated for the exclusive use of all the strata
lots in the section,




(b)

to budget and require section owners to pay strata fees and special
levies for expenditures the section authorizes,




(c)

to sue or arbitrate in the name of the section,




(d)

to enter into contracts in the name of the section,




(e)

to acquire and dispose of land and other property in the name of or on
behalf of the section, and




(f)

to enforce bylaws and rules.




(3)

Despite subsection (2), a section must not enter into a contract, or
sue or arbitrate, in the name of the strata corporation and the strata
corporation has no liability for contracts made, or debts or legal
costs incurred, by the section.




(4)

A section may obtain insurance only




(a)

against perils that are not insured by the strata corporation, or




(b)

for amounts that are in excess of amounts insured by the strata
corporation.




(5)

For the purposes of subsection (4), a section has the same insurable
interest as the strata corporation has in property contained within
the section.




(6)

Division 4 of Part 10 applies to a dispute between sections and
between a section and the strata corporation.






Expenses of section




195


Subject to section 100 and the regulations, expenses of the strata
corporation that relate solely to the strata lots in a section are
shared by the owners of strata lots in the section and each strata
lot's share of a contribution to the operating fund and contingency
reserve fund is calculated as follows:















Administration of section




196

(1)


The eligible voters of a section may call and hold meetings and pass
resolutions in the same manner as eligible voters of the strata
corporation.




(2)

Each section must elect an executive for that section and the section
executive has the same powers and duties with respect to the section
as the strata corporation's council has with respect to the strata
corporation.




(3)

A member of a section executive is eligible for election to the strata
corporation's council.






Bylaws and rules for section




197

(1)


The strata corporation's bylaws apply to the section unless they have
been amended by the section.




(2)

The bylaws may only be amended by the section if the bylaw amendment
is in respect of a matter that relates solely to the section.




(3)

Subject to section 127 (4) (a), an amendment to the bylaws respecting
a matter that relates solely to the section must be approved by a
resolution passed by a 3/4 vote at an annual or special general
meeting of the section.




(3.1)

Despite subsection (3), if a section is composed entirely of
nonresidential strata lots, an amendment to the bylaws respecting a
matter that relates solely to the section must be approved by a
resolution passed




(a)

by a 3/4 vote, or




(b)

if a different voting threshold is provided for in the bylaws of the
section, by that voting threshold


at an annual or special general meeting of the section.




(4)

The executive of a section may make rules governing the use, safety
and condition of




(a)

land and other property acquired under section 194 (2) (e), and




(b)

limited common property designated for the exclusive use of all the
strata lots in the section.




(5)

Section 125 applies to section rules.






Judgments against strata corporation relating to section




198

(1)


If a judgment against the strata corporation relates solely to the
strata lots in a section, the judgment is against only the owners of
strata lots in the section.




(2)

A strata lot's share of a judgment referred to in subsection (1) is
calculated in accordance with section 195 as if the amount of the
judgment were a contribution to the operating fund and contingency
reserve fund, and an owner's liability is limited to that
proportionate share of the judgment.




Contents
|


Part 1
|


Part 2
|


Part 3
|


Part 4
|


Part 5
|


Part 6
|


Part 7
|


Part 8
|


Part 9
|


Part 10
|

Part 11 |

Part 12
|


Part 13
|


Part 14
|


Part 15
|


Part 16
|


Part 17
|



Schedule of Standard Bylaws





