





View Complete Regulation






B.C. Reg. 447/83

O.C. 1897/83


Deposited December 1, 1983

effective January 1, 1984






This consolidation is current to January 30, 2024.

See the

Cumulative B.C. Regulations Bulletin 2023

and


Cumulative B.C. Regulations Bulletin 2024


for amendments effective after January 30, 2024.





Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Insurance (Vehicle) Act


Insurance (Vehicle) Regulation


[Last amended September 1, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 147/2022]



Part 2 â€” Certificates





Application for certificate




3


Application for a certificate issued in conjunction with any type or
category of licence or number plate may be made to a person appointed
as an agent of the corporation for that purpose or authorized in
writing by the corporation for the purposes of section 3 of the

Motor Vehicle Act

.


[am. B.C. Regs. 312/96, s. 1; 234/2018, App. 2, s. 4.]






Interim owner's certificate




4

(1)


Pending approval by the corporation of an application for an owner's
certificate, the person receiving the application shall, subject to
section 15.7 and on payment of the applicable premium and any premium
related debt, issue to the applicant an interim owner's certificate.




(2)

An interim owner's certificate issued under this section or section 6
is valid until the owner of the vehicle described in the interim
owner's certificate receives an owner's certificate.


[am. B.C. Regs. 408/87, s. 3; 383/89, s. 2; 166/2006, Sch. s. 6.]






Repealed




5


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 234/2018, App. 2, s. 5.]






Renewal of owner's certificate




6

(1)


An owner who has received from the corporation an APV-1, APV-1A or
APV-2 form or a notice to renew may make application for renewal of an
owner's certificate to a person mentioned in section 3.




(2)

On approval of the application mentioned in subsection (1) and payment
to the corporation of the premium set out in the APV-1, APV-1A or
APV-2 form or the notice to renew and any premium related debt, the
person to whom the application is made shall issue and validate the
owner's certificate.




(3)

Where an owner does not receive an APV-1, APV-1A or APV-2 form or a
notice to renew, or the form is lost or destroyed, the owner may make
application to a person mentioned in section 3 for an owner's
certificate.




(4)

On approval of the application mentioned in subsection (3) and payment
to the corporation of the applicable premium and any premium related
debt, the person to whom the application is made shall issue to the
applicant an owner's certificate.


[am. B.C. Regs. 408/87, s. 5; 449/88, s. 2; 324/91, s. 3; 404/94, s.
1; 166/2006, Sch. s. 8.]






Interpretation Act




7


Section 25 (3) and (4) of the

Interpretation Act

does not apply in respect of renewal of a certificate, and a
certificate is not in force in the interval between its expiry and
renewal.


[am. B.C. Regs. 234/2018, App. 2, s. 6; 62/2021, App. 4, s. 6.]






Leased vehicles




8


An applicant for an owner's certificate for a leased vehicle shall set
out in the application form




(a)

the name of the owner, followed by the word "lessor",




(b)

the name of the renter of the vehicle, followed by the word "renter",
and




(c)

the address in the Province of either the owner or the renter of the
vehicle.

[am. B.C. Regs. 335/84, s. 3; 341/2007, s. 3.]





Mid-term changes




9

(1)


In this section,

"the territory in which the vehicle is primarily located when not in
use"

means the territory in which the place where the vehicle is kept when
not being driven is located.




(2)

The insured named on an owner's certificate must,




(a)

within 10 days after




(i)

the insured's address is changed from the address set out in the
certificate, or




(ii)

the insured acquires a substitute vehicle for the vehicle described in
the certificate, or




(b)

before




(i)

the use of the vehicle described in the certificate is changed to a
use to which a different vehicle rate class applies than the vehicle
rate class applicable to the use set out in the certificate, or




(ii)

a vehicle in respect of which the premium is established on the basis
of the territory in which a vehicle of that vehicle rate class is used
or principally used, as the case may be, is used or principally used
in a different territory than that set out in the certificate,


report the change of address, vehicle, use or territory to a person
referred to in section 3, and pay or be refunded the resulting
difference in premium.




(3)

If the premium for a vehicle is established on the basis of the
territory in which the vehicle is primarily located when not in use
and that territory as set out in the owner's certificate is changed,
the insured named on the certificate must, unless the vehicle is being
used by the insured for vacation purposes, report the change to a
person referred to in section 3 within 30 days of the change, and pay
or be refunded the resulting difference in premium.


[en. B.C. Reg. 166/2006, Sch. s. 9, as am. by B.C. Reg. 46/2007, Sch.
1, s. 2; am. B.C. Reg. 234/2018, App. 2, s. 7.]






Effect of owner's certificate




10


An owner's certificate validated by the corporation evidences that




(a)

an insured, as defined in sections 63, 78, 147 and 148.1 of this
regulation, has coverage under Part 6, Part 7, section 147 and
Division 2 of Part 10 of this regulation respectively,




(b)

an insured, as defined in section 113 of the Act, has coverage under
Part 10 of the Act, and




(c)

an insured, as defined in section 170 of the Act, has coverage under
Part 11 of the Act


[en. B.C. Reg. 62/2021, App. 4, s. 7, as am. by B.C. Reg. 117/2021, s.
(a).]




Contents
|


Part 1
|

Part 2 |

Part 3
|


Part 4
|


Part 5
|


Part 6
|


Part 7
|


Part 8
|


Part 9
|


Part 10
|


Part 11
|


Part 12
|


Part 13
|


Part 14
|


Part 15
|



Schedules 1 to 10





