





View Complete Statute



Recall and Initiative Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 398



Part 5 — Initiative Vote Financing



Division 1 — Authorized Participants and Financial Agents





Authorized participants must have financial agent




59

(1)


The authorized participants for an initiative vote are




(a)

the proponents of the initiative vote, being




(i)

the proponent of the petition, if this individual has a financial
agent under section 61 for the initiative vote, and




(ii)

the individuals and organizations for whom a financial agent has been
designated under section 62, and




(b)

the opponents of the initiative vote, being the individuals and
organizations for whom a financial agent has been designated under
section 63.




(2)

An authorized participant may only accept initiative vote
contributions and incur initiative vote expenses through the financial
agent for the authorized participant.




(3)

Section 29 (3) applies in relation to the qualifications of a
financial agent for an authorized participant for an initiative vote.






Notice to proponent and opponents for initiative petition




60

(1)


In addition to the notice required under section 14 (2), at least 90
days before general voting day for an initiative vote the chief
electoral officer must give notice of the vote to the proponent and
opponents for the initiative petition to which the vote relates.




(2)

Notice under subsection (1) must advise the proponent and opponents
for the initiative petition that they must act under section 61
or 63, as applicable, if they wish to be an authorized participant for
the initiative vote.






Financial agent for petition proponent




61

(1)


If the proponent for the initiative petition intends to be a proponent
for the initiative vote, the proponent must have a financial agent.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1), section 30 applies and, within 30
days after the notice is published in the Gazette under section 14
(2), the proponent of the petition must deliver to the chief electoral
officer




(a)

a statement that the proponent is acting as the proponent's own
financial agent for the initiative vote, or




(b)

if the proponent is not acting as the proponent's own financial agent,
a copy of the appointment and the consent and statement referred to in
section 30 (2) (b).






Financial agents for other proponents




62

(1)


An individual or organization who wishes to be a proponent under this
section for an initiative vote must apply to the chief electoral
officer within 30 days after the day on which notice of the vote is
published in the Gazette and, for these purposes, section 31 applies.




(2)

For certainty, the financial agent of a proponent under
section 61 may be proposed as the financial agent for an
applicant under this section.




(3)

The chief electoral officer must designate financial agents for
proponents and establish proponent groups as soon as possible after
the end of the period for applying under subsection (1) and, for
these purposes, sections 32 and 33 apply.






Financial agents for opponents




63

(1)


An individual or organization who wishes to be an opponent of an
initiative vote must apply to the chief electoral officer within 30
days after the day on which notice of the vote is published in the
Gazette under section 14 (2) and, for these purposes, section 31
applies.




(2)

The chief electoral officer must designate financial agents for
opponents and establish opponent groups as soon as possible after the
end of the period for applying under subsection (1) and, for
these purposes, sections 32 and 33 apply.






Obligations and authority of financial agents and assistant financial
agents




64

(1)


Section 34 (1), as it applies in relation to initiative petition
contributions, initiative petition expenses and other initiative
petition matters, applies to initiative vote contributions, initiative
vote expenses and other initiative vote matters.




(2)

A financial agent is not personally liable for any liability of an
authorized participant for whom the financial agent is acting unless
the liability is personally guaranteed by the financial agent.




(3)

A financial agent may authorize one or more individuals to accept
initiative vote contributions and incur initiative vote expenses on
behalf of the financial agent and, for these purposes, section 35
applies.




Division 2 — Initiative Vote Contributions and Expenses





Initiative vote contributions




65

(1)


Subject to this Part, an initiative vote contribution is an amount of
money or the value of any property or services provided without
compensation by way of donation, advance, deposit, discount or
otherwise to an authorized participant in relation to an initiative
vote.




(2)

Sections 36, 37 and 38, as they apply in relation to initiative
petition contributions, apply in relation to initiative vote
contributions.






Initiative vote expenses




66

(1)


Subject to this Part, an initiative vote expense is the value of
property or services used during an initiative vote period to promote
or oppose, directly or indirectly, an initiative in relation to an
initiative vote.




(2)

Section 39, as it applies in relation to initiative petition expenses,
applies in relation to initiative vote expenses.






General valuation rules




67


Section 40 applies for the purpose of determining the value of an
initiative vote contribution or initiative vote expense unless
otherwise expressly provided.




Division 3 — Making and Accepting Initiative Vote Contributions





Restrictions on making and accepting initiative vote contributions




68

(1)


In relation to the making of initiative vote contributions,
section 41, as it applies to initiative petition contributions,
applies to initiative vote contributions.




(2)

In relation to the accepting of initiative vote contributions,
section 42, as it applies to initiative petition contributions,
applies to initiative vote contributions.






Limits on anonymous contributions




69

(1)


A financial agent must not accept, in relation to an initiative vote,
more than the applicable amount under section 188 (1) of the

Election Act

in permitted anonymous contributions under section 68 (2) of this Act.




(2)

A financial agent must not accept an anonymous initiative vote
contribution if this will exceed the limit under subsection (1).






Prohibited contributions must be returned




70


Section 44, as it applies in relation to initiative petition
contributions, applies in relation to initiative vote contributions,
except that the period for returning or otherwise dealing with an
initiative vote contribution subject to that section is 30 days
after the financial agent becomes aware of the contravention.






Financial agent must record each initiative vote contribution




71


For the purposes of complying with the reporting requirements of this
Part, section 45, as it applies in relation to initiative
petition contributions and financing, applies to initiative vote
contributions and financing.




Division 4 — Initiative Vote Expenses





Restrictions on who may incur initiative vote expenses




72

(1)


Subject to section 93, an individual or organization other than an
authorized participant must not incur initiative vote expenses.




(2)

Section 46, as it applies in relation to initiative petition expenses,
applies in relation to initiative vote expenses.






Initiative vote expenses in excess of limit prohibited




73

(1)


As applicable,




(a)

the proponent must not incur an initiative vote expense if incurring
the expense will result in the initiative vote expenses of the
proponent exceeding the expenses limit determined under section 74 (2)
(a),




(b)

a member of a proponent group must not incur an initiative vote
expense if incurring the expense will result in the initiative vote
expenses for the proponent group exceeding the expenses limit
determined for that proponent group under section 74 (2) (b), and




(c)

a member of an opponent group must not incur an initiative vote
expense if incurring the expense will result in the initiative vote
expenses for the opponent group exceeding the expenses limit
determined for that opponent group under section 74 (2) (c).




(2)

Section 47 (2), as it applies in relation to initiative petition
expenses, applies in relation to initiative vote expenses that are not
to be included for the purpose of determining whether an authorized
participant has complied with the applicable expenses limit.




(3)

An initiative vote expense that is not included for the purpose of
calculating whether there has been compliance with a limit under this
Part remains an initiative vote expense and is subject to all other
provisions of this Act.






Initiative vote expenses limit




74

(1)


The value of initiative vote expenses incurred by all the proponents
or all the opponents of the initiative vote during an initiative vote
period must not exceed the limit calculated by multiplying $1.52 and
the number of registered voters for all electoral districts in British
Columbia at the start of the initiative vote period.




(2)

The chief electoral officer must determine the expenses limit for the
proponent of the initiative petition and each proponent group and
opponent group as follows:




(a)

if the proponent of the initiative petition is a proponent of the
initiative vote under section 61, the expenses limit for that
proponent is




(i)

50% of the limit calculated under subsection (1) if there are other
proponents for the initiative vote, or




(ii)

100% of the limit calculated under subsection (1) if there are no
other proponents for the initiative vote;




(b)

in the case of proponent groups, the limit calculated under subsection
(1) minus any amount allocated to the proponent for the initiative
petition under paragraph (a) (i) is to be allocated to the groups in
the same proportion as the number of members in the group bears to the
total number of members in all of the proponent groups;




(c)

in the case of opponent groups, the limit calculated under subsection
(1) is to be allocated to the groups in the same proportion as the
number of members in the group bears to the total number of members in
all of the opponent groups.




(3)

The chief electoral officer must




(a)

have notice of the amount calculated under subsection (1) published in
the Gazette, and




(b)

give notice of the applicable expenses limit to the financial agents
for the authorized participants.




(4)

The chief electoral officer must establish the applicable amounts for
the initiative vote by




(a)

determining the ratio between the consumer price index at the time
this section comes into force and the consumer price index at the time
the determination is made, and




(b)

applying the ratio to adjust the amount under subsection (1).




(5)

For the purpose of making an adjustment under this section, the chief
electoral officer has the discretion to determine whether to use a
consumer price index prepared by the director under the

Statistics Act

(British Columbia) or published by Statistics Canada under the

Statistics Act

(Canada) and to determine which consumer price index is applicable for
a particular time.




Division 5 — Reporting





Reporting of information regarding initiative vote contributions




75

(1)


Where this Act requires that initiative vote contributions be
disclosed in a report, the report must include the equivalent
information in relation to initiative vote contributions as required
under section 49 in relation to initiative petition
contributions.




(2)

On request by the chief electoral officer, a contributor must file
with the chief electoral officer a solemn declaration that the
contributor has not contravened this Act or the regulations.






Initiative vote financing report




76

(1)


Within 90 days after the end of the initiative vote period, the
financial agent of each authorized participant must file with the
chief electoral officer on behalf of the authorized participant for
whom the financial agent is acting a financing report in accordance
with this section.




(2)

A financing report must include the equivalent information in relation
to initiative vote financing as required under section 50 (2) in
relation to initiative petition financing.




(3)

Section 50 (3) to (6), as it applies to a report under that section,
applies to a report under this section, except that the period for
filing a supplementary report is 30 days after the financial agent or
authorized participant becomes aware of the change, incompleteness or
inaccuracy for which the supplementary report is required.






Publication of financing summary




77


As soon as practicable after a financing report under section 76 (1)
is received, the chief electoral officer must publish a report
including the following:




(a)

the name of the authorized participant on whose behalf the financing
report is filed;




(b)

an identification of the relevant initiative vote;




(c)

a summary of the information included in the financing report;




(d)

a statement of the applicable expenses limit;




(e)

a statement as to whether the authorized participant complied with the
applicable expenses limit.




Division 6 — Penalties for Failure to Comply





Publication of failure to comply




78

(1)


The chief electoral officer must have notice of the following
published in the Gazette:




(a)

the name of an authorized participant for whom an initiative vote
financing report is not filed in accordance with section 76;




(b)

the name of an authorized participant for whom a required initiative
vote financing report is not filed in accordance with section 81;




(c)

the name of an authorized participant who exceeds the applicable
expenses limit;




(d)

the name of an authorized participant in relation to whom there was a
conviction under section 162 in relation to an initiative vote
financing report.




(2)

Publication under subsection (1) must take place as soon as possible
after the chief electoral officer becomes aware of the applicable
circumstances referred to in that subsection.






Effect of incurring expenses over limit




79

(1)


Unless relief is granted by a court under section 80, the following
penalties apply if an authorized participant exceeds the applicable
expenses limit:




(a)

in the case of an expenses limit for a proponent or proponent group,




(i)

the initiative vote fails, and




(ii)

the proponent must pay, or the proponents who are members of the
proponent group are jointly and separately liable to pay, to the chief
electoral officer a penalty of double the amount by which the expenses
exceed the limit;




(b)

if the total initiative vote expenses of an opponent group exceed the
expenses limit for that opponent group, the members of the opponent
group are jointly and separately liable to pay to the chief electoral
officer a penalty of 10 times the amount by which the expenses exceed
the limit.




(2)

Subsection (1) (a) does not prevent the government from introducing
into the Legislative Assembly the draft Bill that was the subject of
the initiative vote.




(3)

The penalties referred to in subsection (1) are effective as follows:




(a)

if no application under section 80 is made in respect of an authorized
participant subject to the penalty, at the end of the period for
making such an application;




(b)

if, on the final determination of an application under section 80, the
court refuses to grant relief from the penalty, at the time of that
determination.




(4)

In all cases, until the applicable penalty under subsection (1) is
paid, an authorized participant who exceeds the initiative vote
expenses limit is not eligible




(a)

to apply for the issuance of a petition under section 3,




(b)

to become an authorized participant for an initiative petition or an
initiative vote, or




(c)

to act as a financial agent in relation to an initiative petition or
an initiative vote.




(5)

A penalty received by the chief electoral officer under this section
must be paid into the consolidated revenue fund.






Court order for relief from expenses limit




80

(1)


An authorized participant may apply to the Supreme Court for relief
from section 79 for failing to comply with an expenses limit and,
for these purposes, section 54 applies subject to this section.




(2)

An application may be made only within 120 days after the end of the
initiative vote period or, if the failure to comply is disclosed by a
supplementary report under section 76 (3), within 30 days after the
day on which the supplementary report is filed.






Late filing of required reports




81

(1)


This section applies if a financial agent fails to file a report under
Division 5 of this Part with the chief electoral officer within the
time period established by that Division or by a court under
section 83.




(2)

The chief electoral officer must give notice to the authorized
participant for whom the report was to be filed that, if the report is
not filed within the late filing period permitted by this section, the
authorized participant will be subject to the penalties provided in
this Division unless an extension is granted by a court under
section 83.




(3)

On payment to the chief electoral officer of a late filing fee of the
applicable amount under section 220 (5) (b) of the

Election Act

, the report may be filed within 30 days after the end of the
time period for filing established by Division 5 of this Part or
before a later date permitted by a court under section 83 of this
Act.






Failure to file initiative vote financing report




82

(1)


Unless relief is granted by a court on an application under section 83
commenced before the end of the late filing period under section 81
(3), the following penalties apply if an initiative vote financing
report is not filed with the chief electoral officer before the end of
that period:




(a)

in the case of a report for the proponent or a proponent group,




(i)

the initiative vote fails, and




(ii)

the proponent must pay, or the proponents who are members of the
proponent group are jointly and separately liable to pay, a penalty of
the applicable amount under section 220 (5) (a) of the

Election Act

to the chief electoral officer for each day after the last day on
which it may be filed under section 81 of this Act up to the date on
which it is in fact filed;




(b)

in the case of a report for an opponent group, the opponents who are
members of the opponent group are jointly and separately liable to pay
a penalty of the applicable amount under section 220 (5) (b) of the

Election Act

to the chief electoral officer for each day after the last day on
which it may be filed under section 81 of this Act up to the date
on which it is in fact filed.




(2)

Subsection (1) (a) does not prevent the government from introducing
into the Legislative Assembly the draft Bill that was the subject of
the initiative vote that failed because of the application of that
subsection.




(3)

The penalties referred to in subsection (1) are effective as follows:




(a)

if no application under section 83 is made in respect of an authorized
participant subject to the penalty, at the end of the period for
making such an application;




(b)

if, on the final determination of an application under
section 83, the court refuses to grant relief from the penalty,
at the time of that determination.




(4)

In all cases, until the applicable penalty under subsection (1) is
paid and the report is filed, an authorized participant who fails to
file an initiative vote financing report is not eligible




(a)

to apply for the issuance of a petition under section 3,




(b)

to become an authorized participant for an initiative petition or an
initiative vote, or




(c)

to act as a financial agent in relation to an initiative petition or
an initiative vote.




(5)

A penalty received by the chief electoral officer under this section
must be paid into the consolidated revenue fund.






Court order for relief from filing obligations




83

(1)


An authorized participant may apply to the Supreme Court in accordance
with this section for relief from an obligation to file an initiative
vote financing report in accordance with this Act and, for these
purposes, section 57 applies subject to this section.




(2)

An application may be made only within 120 days after the end of the
initiative vote period or, if the failure to comply is disclosed by a
supplementary report under section 76 (3), within 30 days after the
day on which the supplementary report is filed.






False or misleading reports relating to an initiative vote




84

(1)


In addition to the penalty referred to in section 162, if a
proponent of an initiative vote is convicted under that section in
relation to a report under this Part relating to the initiative vote,
that initiative vote fails.




(2)

Subsection (1) applies as follows:




(a)

if no appeal of the conviction is made, at the end of the period for
making such an appeal;




(b)

if the conviction is upheld on its final determination on appeal, at
the time of that final determination.




(3)

Subsection (1) does not prevent the government from introducing into
the Legislative Assembly the draft Bill that was the subject of the
initiative vote.




Contents
|


Part 1
|


Part 2
|


Part 3
|


Part 4
|

Part 5 |

Part 6
|


Part 7
|


Part 8
|


Part 9
|


Part 10




