





View Complete Statute



Community Charter
[SBC 2003] CHAPTER 26



Part 6 — Financial Management



Division 1 — Financial Planning and Accountability





Fiscal year




164


The fiscal year for a municipality is the calendar year.






Financial plan




165

(1)


A municipality must have a financial plan that is adopted annually, by
bylaw, before the annual property tax bylaw is adopted.




(2)

For certainty, the financial plan may be amended by bylaw at any time.




(3)

The planning period for a financial plan is 5 years, that period being
the year in which the plan is specified to come into force and the
following 4 years.




(3.1)

The financial plan must set out the objectives and policies of the
municipality for the planning period in relation to the following:




(a)

for each of the funding sources described in subsection (7), the
proportion of total revenue that is proposed to come from that funding
source;




(b)

the distribution of property value taxes among the property classes
that may be subject to the taxes;




(b.1)

the provision of development potential relief under
section 198.1;




(c)

the use of permissive tax exemptions.




(4)

The financial plan must set out the following for each year of the
planning period:




(a)

the proposed expenditures by the municipality;




(b)

the proposed funding sources;




(c)

the proposed transfers to or between funds.




(5)

The total of the proposed expenditures and transfers to other funds
for a year must not exceed the total of the proposed funding sources
and transfers from other funds for the year.




(6)

The proposed expenditures must set out separate amounts for each of
the following as applicable:




(a)

the amount required to pay interest and principal on municipal debt;




(b)

the amount required for capital purposes;




(c)

the amount required for a deficiency referred to in subsection (9);




(d)

the amount required for other municipal purposes.




(7)

The proposed funding sources must set out separate amounts for each of
the following as applicable:




(a)

revenue from property value taxes;




(b)

revenue from parcel taxes;




(c)

revenue from fees;




(d)

revenue from other sources;




(e)

proceeds from borrowing, other than borrowing under section 177
[revenue anticipation borrowing]
.




(8)

The proposed transfers to or between funds must set out separate
amounts for




(a)

each reserve fund under Division 4 of this Part, and




(b)

accumulated surplus.




(9)

If actual expenditures and transfers to other funds for a year exceed
actual revenues and transfers from other funds for the year, the
resulting deficiency must be included in the next year's financial
plan as an expenditure in that year.






Public process for development of financial plan




166


A council must undertake a process of public consultation regarding
the proposed financial plan before it is adopted.






Annual financial statements




167

(1)


Municipal financial statements for a fiscal year must be




(a)

prepared by the financial officer, and




(b)

presented to council for its acceptance.




(2)

Subject to subsection (3), the financial statements must be prepared
in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles for local
governments.




(3)

The inspector may require or authorize, generally or for a specified
municipality, that the financial statements vary from or include
additional information to the requirements of subsection (2).




(4)

By May 15 in each year, a municipality must submit to the inspector
its audited financial statements for the preceding year and any other
financial information requested by the inspector.




(5)

In addition to any requirement under subsection (4), the financial
officer must compile and supply information on the financial affairs
of the municipality requested by the inspector.






Reporting of council remuneration, expenses and contracts




168

(1)


At least once a year, a council must have prepared a report separately
listing the following for each council member by name:




(a)

the total amount of remuneration paid to the council member for
discharge of the duties of office, including any amount specified as
an expense allowance;




(b)

the total amount of expense payments for the council member made to
the council member as reimbursement for expenses incurred by the
council member or as an allowance that is not reported under paragraph
(a);




(c)

the total amount of any benefits, including insurance policies and
policies for medical or dental services, provided to the council
member or the member's dependants;




(d)

any contracts reported under section 107

[disclosure of contracts with council members and former council
members]

, including a general description of their nature.




(2)

If applicable, the report under this section must also list contracts
referred to in subsection (1) (d) for each former council member.




Division 2 — Audit





Municipal auditor




169

(1)


A council must appoint an auditor for the municipality.




(2)

A municipal auditor must be a person who is authorized to be the
auditor of a company under section 205 of the

Business Corporations Act

.




(3)

A municipal auditor has the power and duty to conduct the examinations
necessary to prepare the reports required under this Division and, for
these purposes, has the same authority in relation to the municipality
as the auditor of a company under the

Business Corporations Act

.




(4)

A municipal auditor who receives information from a person whose right
to disclose that information is restricted by law holds that
information under the same restrictions respecting disclosure that
govern the person from whom the information was obtained.






Audit committee




170

(1)


As a limitation on section 154
[delegation of council authority]
, a council may only delegate its powers, duties and functions under
this Division to a committee comprised of council members.




(2)

Reports submitted by the municipal auditor to a committee under this
section are deemed to have been submitted to council.






Auditor's reports




171

(1)


The municipal auditor must report to the council on the annual
financial statements of the municipality.




(2)

The report under subsection (1) must be in accordance with the form
and the reporting standards recommended by the Chartered Professional
Accountants of Canada.




(3)

In addition to the report under subsection (1),




(a)

the council or the inspector may require further reports from the
municipal auditor, and




(b)

the municipal auditor may, on the auditor's own initiative, make
further reports.




(4)

On request by the inspector, the municipal auditor must forward to the
inspector copies of




(a)

reports under subsections (1) and (3), and




(b)

recorded communications in relation to those reports from the auditor
to the council, a council committee or a municipal officer.






Complaints to council or auditor about financial affairs




172

(1)


A person may complain in writing to the council or to the municipal
auditor, if the person considers that




(a)

a disbursement, expenditure, liability or other transaction is not
authorized under this or another Act, or




(b)

there has been a theft, misuse or other defalcation or irregularity in
the funds, accounts, assets, liabilities and financial obligations of
the municipality.




(2)

If a complaint is made under subsection (1) to the council, the
council must give notice of the matter to the municipal auditor.




(3)

If a complaint is made under subsection (1) to the municipal auditor,
the auditor must give notice of the matter to the council and must
report to the council on the subject matter of the complaint.




Division 3 — Expenditures, Liabilities and Investments





Limit on expenditures




173

(1)


A municipality must not make an expenditure other than one authorized
under subsection (2) or (3).




(2)

A municipality may make an expenditure that is included for that year
in its financial plan, so long as the expenditure is not expressly
prohibited under this or another Act.




(3)

A municipality may make an expenditure for an emergency that was not
contemplated for that year in its financial plan, so long as the
expenditure is not expressly prohibited under this or another Act.




(4)

The following apply in relation to the authority under subsection (3):




(a)

the council must establish procedures to




(i)

authorize expenditures under that subsection, and




(ii)

provide for such expenditures to be reported to the council at a
regular meeting;




(b)

if an expenditure is made under that subsection, as soon as
practicable, the council must amend the financial plan to include the
expenditure and the funding source for the expenditure;




(c)

the authority under that subsection does not include the authority to
borrow for the purpose of making the expenditure.






Limit on borrowing and other liabilities




174

(1)


A municipality may only incur a liability as expressly authorized
under this or another Act.




(2)

A municipality may not incur a liability if incurring the liability
would cause the municipality to exceed a limit established under
subsection (3) unless this is approved under subsection (4).




(3)

For the purposes of subsection (2), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations




(a)

establishing a limit on the aggregate liabilities and the method for
determining that limit, and




(b)

establishing a limit on the annual cost of servicing the aggregate
liabilities and the method for determining that limit.




(4)

With the approval of the inspector, a municipality may exceed the
limit established under subsection (3).




(5)

Except for borrowing under section 177
[revenue anticipation borrowing]
, a municipality must not incur a liability for which expenditures are
required during the planning period for its financial plan, unless
those expenditures are included for the applicable year in the
financial plan.






Liabilities under agreements




175

(1)


A council may, under an agreement, incur a liability if




(a)

the liability is not a debenture debt, and




(b)

the period of the liability is not longer than the reasonable life
expectancy of the activity, work or service under the agreement.




(2)

Subject to subsections (4) and (5), if an agreement under subsection
(1) is




(a)

for more than 5 years, or




(b)

for a period that could exceed 5 years by exercising rights of renewal
or extension,


the council may only incur the liability with the approval of the
electors.




(3)

The matter put before the electors under subsection (2) must identify
the other parties to the agreement and the nature, term and amount of
the liability.




(4)

Approval of the electors is not required under subsection (2) for the
following:




(a)

a liability to be incurred under an employment contract or collective
agreement;




(b)

a liability to be incurred for the supply of materials, equipment or
services under an agreement referred to in section 3 of the

Police Act

;




(c)

a liability to be incurred in circumstances prescribed by regulation
or in relation to an agreement or class of agreement prescribed by
regulation, subject to any conditions established by regulation.




(5)

If




(a)

the concept for a partnering agreement has received the approval of
the electors, and




(b)

within 5 years after that approval, the municipality enters into a
partnering agreement that is in accordance with that approved concept,


approval under subsection (2) is not required for the partnering
agreement.




(6)

For the purposes of subsection (5), the concept for the agreement to
be put before the electors must identify the following:




(a)

the nature of the activity, work or facility to be provided under the
partnering agreement;




(b)

the maximum term of the agreement;




(c)

the maximum liability that may be incurred by the municipality under
the agreement;




(d)

any other information required by regulation.






Liabilities imposed under prescribed enactments




176

(1)


A municipality may incur a liability that is within a class prescribed
under this section.




(2)

The authority to incur a liability under this section is not authority
to borrow for the purposes of the liability.




(3)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations prescribing
classes of liability that are imposed under an enactment as
liabilities to which this section applies.






Revenue anticipation borrowing




177

(1)


A council may, by bylaw, provide for the borrowing of money that may
be necessary to




(a)

meet current lawful expenditures, and




(b)

pay amounts required to meet the municipality's taxing obligations in
relation to another local government or other public body.




(2)

The debt outstanding under this section must not exceed the total of




(a)

the unpaid taxes for all purposes imposed during the current year, and




(b)

the money remaining due from other governments.




(3)

Before the adoption of the annual property tax bylaw in any year, the
taxes in that year are deemed to be 75% of all property taxes imposed
for all purposes in the preceding year.




(4)

When collected, revenue from property taxes must be used as necessary
to repay money borrowed under this section.






Short term capital borrowing




178

(1)


A council may, by bylaw adopted with the approval of the inspector,
contract a debt for any purpose of a capital nature.




(2)

A bylaw and the debt under this section must comply with the
following:




(a)

the debt must not cause the municipality to exceed the limit
prescribed by regulation;




(b)

the debt and securities for it must be payable no later than the
lesser of




(i)

5 years from the date on which the securities were issued, and




(ii)

the reasonable life expectancy of the capital asset for which the debt
is contracted;




(c)

the bylaw must set out




(i)

the amount of the debt intended to be incurred, and




(ii)

in brief and general terms, the purpose for which the debt is to be
incurred.






Loan authorization bylaws for long term borrowing




179

(1)


A council may, by a loan authorization bylaw adopted with the approval
of the inspector, incur a liability by borrowing for one or more of
the following:




(a)

any purpose of a capital nature;




(b)

lending to any person or public authority under an agreement;




(c)

guaranteeing repayment of the borrowing, or providing security for the
borrowing, of a person or public authority, if this is provided under
an agreement with the person or public authority;




(d)

complying with an order or requirement to pay money into the Supreme
Court as security




(i)

for payment of a judgment or other debt,




(ii)

for damages or costs, or




(iii)

for the costs of an appeal from the decision of a court or an
arbitrator;




(e)

satisfying a judgment or other order of a court against the
municipality;




(f)

satisfying an award resulting from an arbitrator's determination of
liability or quantum of damages against the municipality, including
orders of the arbitrator related to that determination;




(g)

paying compensation in respect of property expropriated or injured or
carrying out works referred to in section 32 (3)
[entry on land to mitigate damage]
.




(2)

A loan authorization bylaw must set out the following:




(a)

the total amount proposed to be borrowed under the bylaw;




(b)

in brief and general terms, each of the purposes for which the debt is
to be incurred;




(c)

the amount allocated by the bylaw to each of the purposes for which
the debt is to be incurred;




(d)

the maximum term for which the debentures may be issued.




(3)

A loan authorization bylaw may not be included as part of a general
bylaw.




(4)

The authority to borrow under a loan authorization bylaw ends,




(a)

in the case of a loan authorization bylaw under subsection (1) (b) or
(c), at the end of the term of the agreement required by that
subsection, and




(b)

in other cases, 5 years from the date of adoption of the bylaw,


for any part of the amount authorized by the bylaw that has not
already been used to secure borrowing under section 181
[temporary borrowing under loan authorization bylaw]
or 182
[municipal financing through regional district]
.




(5)

The maximum term of a debt that may be authorized by a loan
authorization bylaw is as follows:




(a)

in the case of a bylaw under subsection (1) (a), the lesser of




(i)

30 years, and




(ii)

the reasonable life expectancy of the capital asset for which the debt
is contracted;




(b)

in the case of a loan authorization bylaw under subsection (1) (b) or
(c), the remaining term of the applicable agreement;




(c)

in all other cases, 30 years.




(6)

A decision of the inspector refusing to approve a loan authorization
bylaw may be appealed in accordance with section 762

[appeal from inspector's decisions in relation to borrowing]

of the

Local Government Act

.






Elector approval required for some loan authorization bylaws




180

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), a loan authorization bylaw may only be
adopted with the approval of the electors.




(2)

Approval of the electors is not required for the following:




(a)

money borrowed for a purpose referred to in section 179 (1) (d) to (g)

[loan authorization bylaws for court, arbitration and expropriation
requirements]

;




(b)

money borrowed for works required to be carried out under




(i)

an order of the Inspector of Dikes, or




(ii)

an order under section 84
[abatement of municipal pollution]
, 85
[environmental protection orders]
or 87
[environmental emergency measures]
of the

Environmental Management Act

.




(c)

money borrowed for a purpose prescribed by regulation or in
circumstances prescribed by regulation, subject to any conditions
established by regulation.




(3)

In addition to the exception provided by section 137 (2)
[power to amend or repeal]
, a loan authorization bylaw may be amended or repealed without the
approval of the electors if the inspector approves and subject to any
terms and conditions the inspector considers appropriate.






Temporary borrowing under loan authorization bylaw




181

(1)


A council that has adopted a loan authorization bylaw may, by bylaw,
temporarily borrow money not exceeding the difference between the
total amount authorized by the loan authorization bylaw and the amount
already borrowed in relation to that bylaw.




(2)

To the extent necessary, the proceeds of the borrowing under section
182
[municipal financing through regional district]
must be used to repay the money temporarily borrowed.






Municipal financing through regional district




182

(1)


Except as permitted by section 181
[temporary borrowing under loan authorization bylaw]
or the

Municipal Finance Authority Act

, a municipality must not borrow money under a loan authorization
bylaw unless




(a)

the financing is undertaken by the applicable regional district under
section 410
[financing municipal undertakings]
of the

Local Government Act

through the Municipal Finance Authority of British Columbia, and




(b)

the regional district board has consented to undertake the financing.




(2)

In giving consent referred to in subsection (1), the board may




(a)

separately consent to financing each amount proposed to be borrowed
under the authority of the loan authorization bylaw, or




(b)

consent to financing all the borrowing authorized by the loan
authorization bylaw or all the remaining amount that has not already
been financed by the regional district.




(3)

In relation to regional district financing under section 410 of the

Local Government Act

after giving consent under subsection (2) of this section, the
municipal loan authorization bylaw is the regional district's
authority to proceed under that section and must not be amended or
repealed without the consent of the board.






Investment of municipal funds




183


Money held by a municipality that is not immediately required may only
be invested or reinvested in one or more of the following:




(a)

securities of the Municipal Finance Authority;




(b)

pooled investment funds under section 16 of the

Municipal Finance Authority Act

;




(c)

securities of Canada or of a province;




(d)

securities guaranteed for principal and interest by Canada or by a
province;




(e)

securities of a municipality, regional district or greater board;




(f)

investments guaranteed by a chartered bank;




(g)

deposits in a savings institution, or non-equity or membership shares
of a credit union;




(h)

other investments specifically authorized under this or another Act.






Property accepted in trust




184

(1)


All money that is held by a municipality and is subject to a trust
must be invested in accordance with section 183 until it is required
for the purposes of the trust.




(2)

If, in the opinion of a council, the terms or trusts imposed by a
donor, settlor, transferor or will-maker are no longer in the best
interests of the municipality, the council may apply to the Supreme
Court for an order under subsection (3).




(3)

On an application under subsection (2), the Supreme Court may vary the
terms or trusts as the court considers will better further both the
intention of the donor, settlor, transferor or will-maker and the best
interests of the municipality.




(4)

Section 87
[discharge of trustee's duty]
of the

Trustee Act

applies to an order under subsection (3).






Ownership of corporations




185

(1)


A municipality may only




(a)

incorporate a corporation other than a society, or




(b)

acquire shares in a corporation


with the approval of the inspector or as authorized by regulation.




(2)

An incorporation or acquisition under subsection (1) applies as an
exception to the restriction under section 183
[investment of municipal funds]
.






Self-insurance by local authorities




186


A municipality may self insure, but may only enter into a scheme of
self insurance protection involving other participants in accordance
with section 751
[self-insurance by local authorities]
of the

Local Government Act

.






Indemnification against proceedings




187


A council may only provide for the indemnification of municipal
officials referred to in section 740
[indemnification against proceedings]
of the

Local Government Act

in accordance with that section.




Division 4 — Reserve Funds





Establishment of reserve funds




188

(1)


A council may, by bylaw, establish a reserve fund for a specified
purpose and direct that money be placed to the credit of the reserve
fund.




(2)

If a municipality receives money in respect of any one of the
following, the council must establish a reserve fund for the
applicable purpose:




(a)

money received from the imposition of a development cost charge, which
must be placed to the credit of a reserve fund in accordance with
section 566
[use of development cost charges]
of the

Local Government Act

;





(
a.1
)



money received from the imposition of an amenity cost charge, which
must be placed to the credit of a reserve fund in accordance with
section 570.8


[use of amenity cost charges]

of the


Local Government Act


;




(b)

money received




(i)

from the sale of park land,




(ii)

under section 27 (2) (b)
[disposal of park land]
, or




(iii)

under section 510 (14)
[provision of park land on subdivision]
of the

Local Government Act

,


which must be placed to the credit of a reserve fund for the purpose
of acquiring park lands;




(c)

money received under section 41 (1) (d)

[disposal of highway property that provides access to water]

, which must be placed to the credit of a reserve fund in accordance
with that section;




(d)

money received under section 525 (2)
[parking space requirements]
of the

Local Government Act

, which must be placed to the credit of a reserve fund for the purpose
of providing




(i)

off-street parking spaces, or




(ii)

transportation infrastructure that supports walking, bicycling, public
transit or other alternative forms of transportation;




(e)

except for tax sale proceeds, money received from the sale of land and
improvements, which must be placed to the credit of a reserve fund for
the purposes of paying any debt remaining in relation to the property
and of acquiring land, improvements and other assets of a capital
nature.






Use of money in reserve funds




189

(1)


Subject to this section, money in a reserve fund, and interest earned
on it, must be used only for the purpose for which the fund was
established.




(2)

If the amount to the credit of a reserve fund is greater than required
for the purpose for which the fund was established, the council may,
by bylaw, transfer all or part of the amount to another reserve fund.




(3)

If the current municipal revenue is not sufficient for the amount
required to pay compensation in respect of property expropriated or
injured or to carry out works referred to in section 32 (3)
[entry on land to mitigate damage]
, the council may, by bylaw, use money from a reserve fund to the
extent required.




(4)

As a restriction on subsection (2), a transfer from a reserve fund
established for a capital purpose may only be made to another reserve
fund established for a capital purpose.




(4.1)

Despite any other enactment, if




(a)

money in a reserve fund established for a capital purpose, including a
reserve fund under section 566 of the

Local Government Act

established for a capital purpose, is not currently required for that
purpose, and




(b)

the municipality has another reserve fund established for a capital
purpose,


the municipality may use money in the first reserve fund for the
purposes of the second reserve fund.




(4.2)

If money from one reserve fund is used under subsection (4.1) for the
purposes of another reserve fund, the municipality must repay to the
first reserve fund, no later than the time when the money is needed
for the purposes of that reserve fund,




(a)

the amount used, and




(b)

an amount equivalent to the interest that would have been earned on
the amount used had it remained in the first reserve fund.





(
5
)



As a restriction on subsections (2) and (3), a council must not
transfer amounts or use money from a fund required under any of the
following provisions unless the bylaw is approved by the minister:






(
a
)


section 188 (2) (a)

[development cost charge reserve fund]

;





(
b
)


section 188 (2) (a.1)

[amenity cost charge reserve fund]

;





(
c
)


section 188 (2) (b)

[park land acquisition reserve fund]

.




Division 5 — Restrictions on Use of Municipal Funds





Purposes for which borrowed money may be used




190

(1)


Subject to this section, money borrowed by a municipality under any
Act must not be used for a purpose other than that specified in the
bylaw or agreement authorizing the borrowing.




(2)

A council may, by bylaw adopted with the approval of the electors, use
all or part of money borrowed for a specific purpose and not repayable
in the current year for any other lawful purpose of the municipality.




(3)

If some of the money borrowed for a specified purpose remains unused
after payment of the costs related to that purpose, a council may, by
bylaw, provide for the use of the unused money for one or more of the
following:




(a)

to retire debentures issued for the purpose;




(b)

to purchase and cancel debentures issued for the purpose;




(c)

for expenditures of a nature similar to the purpose in the bylaw
authorizing the money to be borrowed;




(d)

for a reserve fund for matters in paragraph (a), (b) or (c).






Liabilities for use of money contrary to Act




191

(1)


A council member who votes for a bylaw or resolution authorizing the
expenditure, investment or other use of money contrary to this Act or
the

Local Government Act

is personally liable to the municipality for the amount.




(2)

As an exception, subsection (1) does not apply if the council member
relied on information provided by a municipal officer or employee and
the officer or employee was guilty of dishonesty, gross negligence or
malicious or wilful misconduct in relation to the provision of the
information.




(3)

In addition to any other penalty to which the person may be liable, a
council member who is liable to the municipality under subsection (1)
is disqualified from holding office




(a)

on a local government,




(b)

on the council of the City of Vancouver or on the Park Board
established under section 485 of the

Vancouver Charter

, or




(c)

as a trustee under the

Islands Trust Act



until 4 years from the date of the vote to which the disqualification
relates.




(4)

Money owed to a municipality under this section may be recovered for
the municipality by




(a)

the municipality,




(b)

an elector or taxpayer of the municipality, or




(c)

a person who holds a security under a borrowing made by the
municipality.




Division 6 — Ministerial Regulations





Regulations respecting revenue anticipation borrowing in special
circumstances




191.1

(1)


The minister may make regulations in accordance with this section if
the minister considers that special circumstances exist that result
in, or are anticipated to result in, a loss of revenue by or an
expense for




(a)

a municipality, including the City of Vancouver,




(b)

a regional district, or




(c)

a greater board.




(2)

The minister may make regulations respecting delaying the payment of
debt incurred as revenue anticipation borrowing, until the earlier of




(a)

the date when the anticipated revenue with respect to which the
borrowing was authorized is received, or




(b)

December 31 of the year following the year in which the debt was
incurred.




(3)

The minister may make a regulation under subsection (1) only if
satisfied that




(a)

the benefit of making the regulation is proportionate to the benefit
of the continued application of the enactment as it is before the
making of the regulation, and




(b)

the regulation is necessary to prevent, respond to or alleviate the
effects of the special circumstances.




(4)

A regulation under subsection (1)




(a)

must specify the following:




(i)

the municipality, regional district or greater board or class of
municipalities, regional districts or greater boards, including,
without limitation, a class that is all municipalities, all regional
districts or all greater boards, for which the payment date is
postponed;




(ii)

the calendar year in relation to which the debt is incurred as revenue
anticipation borrowing;




(iii)

whether the amount of any outstanding debt that remains unpaid after
the applicable date referred to in subsection (2) will or will not
limit the maximum allowable amount of revenue anticipation borrowing
that may be incurred in the subsequent year, and




(b)

may specify additional terms and conditions respecting the payment of
the debt.




(5)

A regulation under subsection (1) may provide that it applies despite
any of the following:




(a)

section 177
[revenue anticipation borrowing]
;




(b)

section 35
[borrowing in anticipation of revenue]
of the
Greater Vancouver Sewerage and Drainage District Act
;




(c)

section 58
[borrowing in anticipation of revenue]
of the
Greater Vancouver Water District Act
;




(d)

section 404
[revenue anticipation borrowing]
of the

Local Government Act

;




(e)

section 263
[borrowing pending collection of real-property taxes]
of the

Vancouver Charter

.






Regulations respecting borrowing from reserve funds in special
circumstances




191.2

(1)


The minister may make regulations respecting borrowing from reserve
funds to cover an operational shortfall in the year of borrowing if
the minister considers that special circumstances exist that result
in, or are anticipated to result in, an operational shortfall for




(a)

a municipality, including the City of Vancouver,




(b)

a regional district,




(c)

a greater board, or




(d)

an improvement district.




(2)

The minister may make a regulation under subsection (1) only if
satisfied that




(a)

the benefit of making the regulation is proportionate to the benefit
of the continued application of the enactment as it is before the
making of the regulation, and




(b)

the regulation is necessary to prevent, respond to or alleviate the
effects of the special circumstances.




(3)

A regulation under subsection (1)




(a)

must specify the following:




(i)

the municipality, regional district, greater board or improvement
district or class of municipalities, regional districts, greater
boards or improvement districts, including, without limitation, a
class that is all municipalities, all regional districts, all greater
boards or all improvement districts, that may borrow from reserve
funds;




(ii)

the calendar year in relation to which borrowing is authorized;




(iii)

the date by which the borrowed amount must be repaid to the reserve
fund from which it was borrowed;




(iv)

whether interest applies to the borrowed amount and, if so, the amount
of the applicable interest;




(v)

whether a penalty of no more than 5% of the amount outstanding after
the date specified under subparagraph (iii) applies to any amount
outstanding after that specified date such that it must be paid to the
reserve fund from which the amount was borrowed;




(vi)

whether any amount outstanding after the date specified under
subparagraph (iii) must be included as a cash transfer to reserves in
the year following that date in the financial plan, annual estimates
or budget, as applicable, and




(b)

may specify additional terms and conditions respecting the borrowing
from reserve funds.




(4)

A regulation under subsection (1) may provide that it applies despite
any of the following:




(a)

section 165
[financial plan]
;




(b)

section 189
[use of money in reserve funds]
;




(c)

section 34.1
[reserve and special reserve funds]
of the
Greater Vancouver Sewerage and Drainage District Act
;




(d)

section 53
[annual estimate]
of the
Greater Vancouver Sewerage and Drainage District Act
;




(e)

section 46
[annual estimates and fixing of rates]
of the
Greater Vancouver Water District Act
;




(f)

section 57.1
[reserve funds]
of the
Greater Vancouver Water District Act
;




(g)

section 374
[annual financial plan]
of the

Local Government Act

;




(h)

section 377
[financial management: application of Community Charter]
of the

Local Government Act

;




(i)

section 697 (2) (d)
[general powers of improvement district]
of the

Local Government Act

;




(j)

section 706
[renewal of works and related reserve funds]
of the

Local Government Act

;




(k)

section 193D (5) (d) and (8)

[reserve fund for accommodation to replace converted or demolished
single room accommodation]

of the

Vancouver Charter

;




(l)

section 201A
[property acquisition fund]
of the

Vancouver Charter

;




(m)

section 219
[Director of Finance to report on revenue and expenditure]
of the

Vancouver Charter

;




(n)

section 306 (7) to (9)

[reserve fund for off-street parking and transportation
infrastructure]

of the

Vancouver Charter

;




(o)

section 372
[annual estimates]
of the

Vancouver Charter

;




(p)

section 523D (16) to (17.1)
[development cost levy reserve funds]
of the

Vancouver Charter

.




Contents
|


Part 1
|


Part 2
|


Part 3
|


Part 4
|


Part 5
|

Part 6 |

Part 7
|


Part 8
|


Part 9
|


Schedule




