





View Complete Statute



Business Practices and Consumer Protection Act
[SBC 2004] CHAPTER 2



Part 2 — Unfair Practices



Division 1 — Deceptive Acts or Practices





Deceptive acts or practices




4

(1)


In this Division:



"deceptive act or practice"

means, in relation to a consumer transaction,




(a)

an oral, written, visual, descriptive or other representation by a
supplier, or




(b)

any conduct by a supplier


that has the capability, tendency or effect of deceiving or misleading
a consumer or guarantor;



"representation"

includes any term or form of a contract, notice or other document used
or relied on by a supplier in connection with a consumer transaction.




(2)

A deceptive act or practice by a supplier may occur before, during or
after the consumer transaction.




(3)

Without limiting subsection (1), one or more of the following
constitutes a deceptive act or practice:




(a)

a representation by a supplier that goods or services




(i)

have sponsorship, approval, performance characteristics, accessories,
ingredients, quantities, components, uses or benefits that they do not
have,




(ii)

are of a particular standard, quality, grade, style or model if they
are not,




(iii)

have a particular prior history or usage that they do not have,
including a representation that they are new if they are not,




(iv)

are available for a reason that differs from the fact,




(v)

are available if they are not available as represented,




(vi)

were available in accordance with a previous representation if they
were not,




(vii)

are available in quantities greater than is the fact, or




(viii)

will be supplied within a stated period if the supplier knows or ought
to know that they will not;




(b)

a representation by a supplier




(i)

that the supplier has a sponsorship, approval, status, affiliation or
connection that the supplier does not have,




(ii)

that a service, part, replacement or repair is needed if it is not,




(iii)

that the purpose or intent of a solicitation of, or a communication
with, a consumer by a supplier is for a purpose or intent that differs
from the fact,




(iv)

that a consumer transaction involves or does not involve rights,
remedies or obligations that differs from the fact,




(v)

about the authority of a representative, employee or agent to
negotiate the final terms of a consumer transaction if the
representation differs from the fact,




(vi)

that uses exaggeration, innuendo or ambiguity about a material fact or
that fails to state a material fact, if the effect is misleading,




(vii)

that a consumer will obtain a benefit for helping the supplier to find
other potential customers if it is unlikely that the consumer will
obtain the benefit,




(viii)

that appears in an objective form such as an editorial, documentary or
scientific report if the representation is primarily made to sell
goods or services, unless the representation states that it is an
advertisement or promotion, or




(ix)

to arrange for the consumer an extension of credit for a fee, unless
the fee is deducted from the advance, as defined in section 57
[definitions]
;




(c)

a representation by a supplier about the total price of goods or
services if




(i)

a person could reasonably conclude that a price benefit or advantage
exists but it does not,




(ii)

the price of a unit or instalment is given in the representation, and
the total price of the goods or services is not given at least the
same prominence, or




(iii)

the supplier's estimate of the price is materially less than the price
subsequently determined or demanded by the supplier unless the
consumer has expressly consented to the higher price before the goods
or services are supplied;




(d)

a prescribed act or practice.






Prohibition and burden of proof




5

(1)


A supplier must not commit or engage in a deceptive act or practice in
respect of a consumer transaction.




(2)

If it is alleged that a supplier committed or engaged in a deceptive
act or practice, the burden of proof that the deceptive act or
practice was not committed or engaged in is on the supplier.






Advertising




6

(1)


In this section,
"advertiser"
means a supplier who publishes advertisements.




(2)

An advertiser who, on behalf of another supplier, publishes a
deceptive or misleading advertisement is not liable under section 171
[damages recoverable]
, 172
[court actions respecting consumer transactions]
or 189
[offences]
if the advertiser proves that the advertiser did not know and had no
reason to suspect that its publication would contravene section 5.




(3)

An advertiser, for each advertisement accepted, must maintain a record
of the name and address of the supplier who provides the
advertisement.




Division 2 — Unconscionable Acts or Practices





Application of this Division




7


Nothing in this Division limits, restricts or derogates from a court's
power or jurisdiction.






Unconscionable acts or practices




8

(1)


An unconscionable act or practice by a supplier may occur before,
during or after the consumer transaction.




(2)

In determining whether an act or practice is unconscionable, a court
must consider all of the surrounding circumstances of which the
supplier knew or ought to have known.




(3)

Without limiting subsection (2), the circumstances that the court must
consider include the following:




(a)

that the supplier subjected the consumer or guarantor to undue
pressure to enter into the consumer transaction;




(b)

that the supplier took advantage of the consumer or guarantor's
inability or incapacity to reasonably protect the consumer or
guarantor's own interest because of physical or mental infirmity,
ignorance, illiteracy, age or inability to understand the character,
nature or language of the consumer transaction, or any other matter
related to the transaction;




(c)

that, at the time the consumer transaction was entered into, the total
price grossly exceeded the total price at which similar subjects of
similar consumer transactions were readily obtainable by similar
consumers;




(d)

that, at the time the consumer transaction was entered into, there was
no reasonable probability of full payment of the total price by the
consumer;




(e)

that the terms or conditions on, or subject to, which the consumer
entered into the consumer transaction were so harsh or adverse to the
consumer as to be inequitable;




(f)

a prescribed circumstance.






Prohibition and burden of proof




9

(1)


A supplier must not commit or engage in an unconscionable act or
practice in respect of a consumer transaction.




(2)

If it is alleged that a supplier committed or engaged in an
unconscionable act or practice, the burden of proof that the
unconscionable act or practice was not committed or engaged in is on
the supplier.






Remedy for an unconscionable act or practice




10

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), if an unconscionable act or practice
occurred in respect of a consumer transaction, that consumer
transaction is not binding on the consumer or guarantor.




(2)

If a court determines that an unconscionable act or practice occurred
in respect of a consumer transaction that is a mortgage loan, as
defined in section 57
[definitions]
, the court may do one or more of the following:




(a)

reopen the transaction and take an account between the supplier and
the consumer or guarantor;




(b)

despite any statement or settlement of account or any agreement
purporting to close previous dealings and create a new obligation,
reopen any account already taken and relieve the consumer from any
obligation to pay the total cost of credit at a rate in excess of the
prevailing prime rate;




(c)

order the supplier to repay any excess that has been paid or allowed
by the consumer or guarantor;




(d)

set aside all or part of, or alter, any agreement made or security
given in respect of the transaction and, if the supplier has parted
with the security, order the supplier, to indemnify the consumer;




(e)

suspend the rights and obligations of the parties to the transaction.




Division 3 — Unsolicited Goods or Services





Definition and interpretation




11

(1)


In this Division,

"unsolicited goods or services"

means goods or services that are supplied to a consumer who did not
request them, other than




(a)

goods or services supplied to a consumer who knew or ought to have
known they were intended for delivery to another person,




(b)

goods or services for which the supplier does not require payment, or




(c)

a prescribed supply of goods or services.




(2)

For the purposes of the definition of "unsolicited goods or services",
a request for goods or services must not be inferred only from the
passage of time or from the consumer's




(a)

payment for the goods or services,




(b)

use of the goods or services,




(c)

request to purchase another similar good or service, or




(d)

inaction.






Unsolicited goods or services




12

(1)


A consumer has no legal obligation in respect of unsolicited goods or
services unless and until the consumer expressly acknowledges to the
supplier in writing the consumer's intention to accept the goods or
services.




(2)

Unless the consumer has given the acknowledgement referred to in
subsection (1), the supplier does not have a cause of action for any
loss, use, misuse, possession, damage or misappropriation in respect
of the goods or services or the value obtained by the use of the goods
or services.




(3)

Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply to goods supplied to a consumer
on a continuing basis under a contract between the consumer and
supplier.




(4)

If it is alleged that the supplier supplied unsolicited goods or
services, the burden of proof that the goods or services were not
unsolicited is on the supplier.






Material change resulting in unsolicited goods or services




13

(1)


This section does not apply to




(a)

a material change in services referred to in section 25 (4)
[continuing services contract — cancellation]
, and




(b)

a change to the price of goods or services or a renewal of an existing
supply of goods or services if the goods or services are not otherwise
changed.




(2)

If a consumer is being supplied with goods or services on a continuing
basis and there is a material change in the goods or services, or in
the supply of the goods or services, the goods or services are deemed
to be unsolicited goods or services from the time of the material
change unless the supplier is able to establish that the consumer
consented to the material change.




(3)

Subject to subsection (4), a supplier may rely on a consumer's consent
to the material change if that consent is made by any method that
permits the supplier to produce evidence to establish the consumer's
consent.




(4)

A supplier does not establish a consumer's consent by providing notice
to the consumer to the effect that the supplier will supply the
materially changed goods or services to the consumer unless the
consumer instructs the supplier not to supply the goods or services.






Consumer's remedy if unsolicited goods or services




14

(1)


A consumer who pays for unsolicited goods or services may give to the
supplier a demand, in writing, for a refund from the supplier within 2
years after the consumer first received the goods or services if the
consumer did not expressly acknowledge to the supplier in writing the
consumer's intention to accept the goods or services.




(2)

A demand is sufficient if it indicates, in any way, the intention of
the consumer to demand a refund of a payment made for unsolicited
goods or services.




(3)

If a supplier receives a demand for a refund, the supplier must refund
to the consumer, within 15 days after the supplier received the
demand, all money received in respect of the unsolicited goods or
services.




Contents
|


Part 1
|

Part 2 |

Part 3
|


Part 4
|


Part 4.1
|


Part 5
|


Part 6
|


Part 6.1
|



Part 6.2

|



Part 6.3

|


Part 7
|


Part 8
|


Part 9
|


Part 10
|


Part 11
|


Part 12
|


Part 13
|


Part 14
|


Part 15




