





View Complete Regulation






B.C. Reg. 169/2009

O.C. 303/2009


Deposited July 7, 2009

effective July 1, 2010






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.

See “Amendments Not in Force” and the


Cumulative B.C. Regulations Bulletin 2024

for

amendments effective after March 5, 2024.





Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Court Rules Act


Supreme Court Family Rules


[Last amended January 15, 2024 by B.C. Reg. 277/2023]



Part 1 — Interpretation



Rule 1-1 — Interpretation






Definitions



(1)

In these Supreme Court Family Rules, unless the context otherwise
requires:



"accessible address"

means an address that describes a unique and identifiable location in
British Columbia that is accessible to the public during normal
business hours for the delivery of documents;



"application"

means an application made before trial to obtain a court order or an
application, whenever made, to change a final order;



"arbitration award"

means an award, within the meaning of the

Arbitration Act

, made in respect of a family law dispute;



"business day"

means a day on which the court registries are open for business;



"Chief Justice"

means the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of British Columbia;


"claimant"
means a person who has filed a notice of family claim under Rule 4-1;


"court"
means the Supreme Court of British Columbia and, if an associate judge
has jurisdiction, includes an associate judge of the Supreme Court;



"
Divorce Act
"

means the

Divorce Act

(Canada);


"document"
has an extended meaning and includes a photograph, film, recording of
sound, any record of a permanent or semi-permanent character and any
information recorded or stored by means of any device;



"family justice counsellor"

means a person appointed as a family court counsellor under section 3
of the

Family Relations Act

or a person appointed as a family justice counsellor under section 10
of the

Family Law Act

;



"family law case"

means a proceeding in which one or more of the following orders is
sought:




(a)

an order under the

Divorce Act

;




(b)

an order under the

Family Law Act

;




(b.1)

a FHRMIRA order;




(c)

an order for annulment of marriage;




(d)

an order,




(i)

based on unjust enrichment or other trust claims, for an interest in
property, or




(ii)

based on unjust enrichment, for compensation


if the claim for the interest or compensation arises out of a
marriage-like relationship;




(e)

an order for adoption,

and includes



(f)

a proceeding that, under Rule 3-1 (4.1), was started by the filing of
a requisition and agreement under Rule 2-1 (1),




(g)

a proceeding that, under Rule 3-1 (4.4), was started by the filing of
a requisition under Rule 20-6 (3), and




(h)

a proceeding that, under Rule 3-1 (4.5), was started by the filing of
a requisition and arbitration award under Rule 2-1.2 (2);



[Orders available under a family law case include orders concerning
guardianship, parenting arrangements or contact with a child, orders
for support for a child or spouse, protection orders, orders dealing
with property and divorce orders.]




"FHRMIRA order"

means an order made under the


Family Homes on Reserves and Matrimonial Interests or Rights Act


(Canada) or under a First Nation's law made under that Act;


"file"
means file in the registry;



"final order"

means an order finally resolving a claim in a family law case even
though the order may be subject to change;



"FMEP Director"

means the Director of Maintenance Enforcement under the

Family Maintenance Enforcement Act

;



"former Supreme Court Rules"

means the Supreme Court Rules, B.C. Reg. 221/90;



"joint family law case"

means a family law case referred to in Rule 2-2 (1);



"notice of application"

means the document described in Rule 10-6 (3);


"party"
means




(a)

a claimant,




(b)

a respondent,




(c)

a respondent by way of counterclaim,




(d)

a petitioner,




(e)

a petition respondent, and




(f)

if a support order is filed with him or her, the FMEP Director in
relation to the following:




(i)

any matter arising under section 9, 14 (1) or (2), 16 (3) or (4), 18
(2), 19, 20, 21, 22 (1), 23 (1), 26 (10), 29, 30, 30.1, 31, 39 (1) or
46 (1) of the

Family Maintenance Enforcement Act

;




(ii)

an application to change, suspend or terminate a support order that is
in arrears, other than a support order under the

Divorce Act

;




(iii)

an application to change, suspend or terminate a support order made
under the

Divorce Act

if the order has been assigned to a minister designated by the
Lieutenant Governor in Council under the

Divorce Act

;



"petition proceeding"

means a family law case started by a petition;



"petition respondent"

means a person who has filed a response to petition under Rule 17-1
(4);


"petitioner"
means a person who has filed a petition under Rule 17-1;


"pleading"
means a notice of family claim, a response to family claim, a
counterclaim and a response to counterclaim;



"regional manager"

in relation to a registry, means the regional manager of the Family
Justice Services Division (Justice Services Branch), Ministry of
Attorney General, who is responsible for the region in which the
registry is located;


"registrar"
includes a district registrar and a deputy district registrar;


"registry"
, in relation to a family law case, means the office of the court in
which the family law case is being conducted;


"relief"
includes remedy;


"respondent"
means a person who has filed a response to family claim under Rule
4-3;



"respondent by way of counterclaim"

means a person who has filed a response to counterclaim under Rule 4-4
(5);


"support"
includes maintenance;



"undefended family law case"

means a family law case in which one of the following is true:




(a)

the family law case is a joint family law case and no party has filed
a notice of withdrawal;




(b)

no response to family claim has been filed;




(c)

a response to family claim was filed but has been withdrawn or struck
out;




(d)

a response to family claim and a counterclaim have been filed but the
notice of family claim and any response to counterclaim have been




(i)

withdrawn, or




(ii)

struck out, discontinued or dismissed;




(e)

all claims other than a claim for divorce, if any, have been settled,
the parties have filed a statement to that effect signed by the
parties or their lawyers and the claim for divorce, if any, is not
contested.


[am. B.C. Regs. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 1; 133/2012, s. 1; 27/2013, Sch.
2, s. 14; 90/2014, Sch. 2, s. 1; 121/2014, s. 1; 249/2014, s. 1;
99/2018, Sch. 2, s. 17; 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 1; 277/2023, Sch. 3, s.
1.]








Interpretation Act
and
Supreme Court Act




(2)

Unless a contrary intention appears, the

Interpretation Act

and the interpretation section of the

Supreme Court Act

apply to these Supreme Court Family Rules.







Titles and headings



(3)

The titles and headings of these Supreme Court Family Rules are for
convenience only and are not intended as a guide to interpretation.







Reference aids



(4)

Italicized words in square brackets are not part of these Supreme
Court Family Rules, are included editorially for convenience of
reference only and are not to be used in interpreting the rules or any
provision to which the words refer.




Rule 1-2 — Citation and Application






Citation



(1)

These Supreme Court Family Rules may be cited as the "Supreme Court
Family Rules" and are included within any citation to the "Rules of
Court" or the "Supreme Court Rules".







Rules apply to all family law cases



(2)

These Supreme Court Family Rules apply to all family law cases.







Waiver of rule by agreement



(3)

On application, and if all parties to a family law case agree, the
court may order that any provision of these Supreme Court Family Rules
does not apply to the family law case.




Rule 1-3 — Object of Rules






Object



(1)

The object of these Supreme Court Family Rules is to




(a)

help parties resolve the legal issues in a family law case fairly and
in a way that will




(i)

take into account the impact that the conduct of the family law case
may have on a child, and




(ii)

minimize conflict and promote cooperation between the parties, and




(b)

secure the just, speedy and inexpensive determination of every family
law case on its merits.







Proportionality



(2)

Securing the just, speedy and inexpensive determination of a family
law case on its merits includes, so far as is practicable, conducting
the family law case in ways that are proportionate to




(a)

the interests of any child affected,




(b)

the importance of the issues in dispute, and




(c)

the complexity of the family law case.




Part 2 — Resolving Cases by Agreement



Rule 2-1 — Agreements






Written agreements



(1)

A copy of a written agreement referred to in section 15, 44 (3), 58
(3), 148 (2) or 163 (3) of the

Family Law Act

may be filed.


[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 2, as am. by B.C. Reg. 67/2013, s. 1 (a).]








Filing agreements under the
Family Law Act




(2)

To file an agreement under subrule (1), a copy of the agreement must
be attached to a requisition in Form F17.1 and the requisition must be
filed.

[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 2.]






Enforcing agreements



(3)

Without limiting any other power the court may have to enforce an
agreement filed under this rule, the court may make an order for that
purpose on an application and, for that purpose, Part 10 of these
Supreme Court Family Rules applies.

[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 2.]



Rule 2-1.1 — Determinations of Parenting Coordinators






Determination may be filed



(1)

Subject to subrule (2), a determination of a parenting coordinator
referred to in section 18 of the

Family Law Act

may be filed in a family law case.

[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 2.]






Agreement must be filed



(2)

If the parenting coordinator who makes a determination was engaged
under an agreement referred to in section 15 (1) of the

Family Law Act

, the determination must not be filed until that agreement has been
filed under Rule 2-1.

[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 2.]







Filing determinations under the
Family Law Act




(3)

To file a determination under subrule (1), a copy of the determination
must be attached to a requisition in Form F17.2 and the requisition
must be filed.

[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 2.]



Rule 2-1.2 — Arbitration Awards






Arbitration awards may be filed



(1)

An arbitration award may be filed in a registry.

[en. B.C. Reg. 121/2014, s. 2.]






Filing arbitration awards



(2)

To file an arbitration award under subrule (1), a certified copy of
the arbitration award must be attached to a requisition in Form F17.3
and the requisition must be filed.

[en. B.C. Reg. 121/2014, s. 2.]



Rule 2-2 — Joint Family Law Case






Joint family law case



(1)

A family law case may be started jointly by the persons involved if
all relief, except any claim for divorce, is by consent.




[See Rule 10-10 for the process to be followed for obtaining judgment
in a joint family law case.]








Notice of family claim in joint family law case




(2)

In a joint family law case, the notice of family claim




(a)

must be in Form F1, and




(b)

need not be served.







Withdrawal from joint family law case



(3)

A person may withdraw from a joint family law case by




(a)

filing a notice of withdrawal in Form F2, and




(b)

serving a copy of the filed notice of withdrawal by personal service
in accordance with Rule 6-3 (2).







Claiming additional relief



(4)

If a person who withdraws from a joint family law case wishes to
oppose a claim made in the joint notice of family claim or wishes to
claim other relief, that person must, at the time of filing the notice
of withdrawal, file a response to family claim or counterclaim or
both.







Application of rules



(5)

If a notice of withdrawal is filed under subrule (3), these Supreme
Court Family Rules apply to the family law case as if it were not a
joint family law case.




Rule 2-2.1 —
Civil Marriage Act
(Canada)







Application under Part 2 of the
Civil Marriage Act
(Canada)




(1)

In this Rule,



"court order"

, in respect of a marriage to which Part 2 of the

Civil Marriage Act

(Canada) applies, means a certified copy of an order from a court in
the jurisdiction where one of the spouses resides declaring that the
other spouse




(a)

is incapable of making decisions about his or her civil status because
of a mental disability,




(b)

is unreasonably withholding consent, or




(c)

cannot be found;



"supporting affidavit"

means an affidavit respecting the grounds for divorce as set out in
section 7 (1) of the

Civil Marriage Act

(Canada).

[en. B.C. Reg. 4/2016, s. 1.]






What to file



(2)

A divorce under Part 2 of the

Civil Marriage Act

(Canada) may be sought by filing all of the following:




(a)

an application in Form F1.1;




(b)

the marriage certificate;




(c)

the applicable of the following:




(i)

a supporting affidavit sworn by both spouses;




(ii)

supporting affidavits sworn by each spouse;




(iii)

a supporting affidavit sworn by the applicant spouse and a court order
respecting the other spouse.

[en. B.C. Reg. 4/2016, s. 1.]






Certificate



(3)

A certificate of divorce referred to in section 9 of the

Civil Marriage Act

(Canada) must be in Form F1.2 and may be signed and issued by the
registrar.

[en. B.C. Reg. 4/2016, s. 1.]



Part 3 — How to Start and Defend a Family Law Case



Rule 3-1 — Choosing the Correct Form of Proceeding







Commencing family law cases by notice of family claim




(1)

Except for those special situations referred to in subrules (2.1) to
(2.4), (4.1), (4.4) and (4.5) of this rule, every family law case must
be started by filing a notice of family claim under Rule 4-1.


[am. B.C. Regs. 133/2012, s. 3 (a); 121/2014, s. 3 (a).]







Repealed



(2)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 3 (b).]







Joint family law case



(2.1)

A joint family law case must be started in accordance with Rule 2-2.

[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 3 (b).]






When petition must be used



(2.2)

The following orders must be sought in a family law case started in
accordance with subrule (3) of this rule:




(a)

an order for adoption;




(b)

an order for return of a child under the Convention on the Civil
Aspects of International Child Abduction signed at The Hague on
October 25, 1980;




(c)

an order granting a person, other than a spouse,




(i)

leave under section 16.1 (3) of the

Divorce Act

to make an application for a parenting order or interim parenting
order in respect of a child, or




(ii)

leave under section 16.5 (3) of the

Divorce Act

to make an application for a contact order or interim contact order
that provides for contact between the person and a child;




(d)

an order granting a person, other than a former spouse, to whom a
parenting order does not relate leave under section 17 (2)
of the

Divorce Act

to make an application for an order varying, rescinding or suspending
the parenting order.


[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 3 (b); am. B.C. Reg. 208/2020, s. 1.]







Order for declaration of parentage



(2.3)

An order for a declaration of parentage must be sought in a family law
case




(a)

started by filing a notice of family claim under Rule 4-1, or




(b)

in accordance with subrule (4) of this rule.

[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 3 (b).]







When petitions or applications must be used




(2.4)

The following orders must be sought in accordance with subrule (4) of
this rule:




(a)

an order under section 35 or 36 of the

Family Law Act

to recognize a Canadian extraprovincial declaratory order or a
non-Canadian extraprovincial declaratory order respectively;




(b)

directions sought by a guardian of a child under section 49 of the

Family Law Act

;




(c)

an order under section 75 of the

Family Law Act

to recognize an extra provincial order;




(d)

an order under section 231 (4) of the

Family Law Act

to apprehend a child;




(e)

an order under the

Divorce Act

to vary, rescind or suspend a support order, parenting order or
contact order of another court;




(f)

an order under section 183 of the

Family Law Act

;




(g)

an order under section 28 of the

Child, Family and Community Service Act

;




(h)

an order under section 10 of the

Family Orders and Agreements Enforcement Assistance Act

(Canada) authorizing an official of the court to make an application
under section 12 of that Act for the release of information.


[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 3 (b); am. B.C. Regs. 121/2014, s. 3 (b);
208/2020, s. 2; 219/2023, Sch. 1, s. 1.]







Petitions



(3)

To obtain any of the orders referred to in subrule (2.2), a person
must start a family law case by petition under Rule 17-1 and seek the
order within that family law case.

[am. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 3 (c).]






Applications and petitions



(4)

To obtain any of the orders referred to in subrule (2.3) (b) or (2.4)
of this rule, a person must apply for the order as follows:




(a)

if there is an existing family law case within which, under these
Supreme Court Family Rules, it is appropriate to seek that order, the
application for that order must be made in that family law case;




(b)

if there is no existing family law case within which it is appropriate
to seek that order, a person wishing to obtain that order must start a
family law case by petition under Rule 17-1 and seek the order within
that family law case.

[am. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 3 (d) and (e).]







Filing agreements under the
Family Law Act




(4.1)

If a person files under Rule 2-1 (2) a requisition to which an
agreement is attached and there is no existing family law case within
which it is appropriate to file the requisition, the filing of the
requisition under that rule starts a family law case.

[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 3 (f).]







Style of proceedings if filing of agreement starts family law case




(4.2)

If the filing of a requisition starts a family law case under subrule
(4.1) of this rule, the style of proceeding in the family law case
must name the person filing the requisition as "Claimant" and the
other parties to the agreement as "Respondents".

[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 3 (f).]







Filing determinations of parenting coordinators




(4.3)

Without limiting Rule 2-1.1 (2), if a person wishes to file a
determination of a parenting coordinator under Rule 2-1.1 and there is
no existing family law case within which it is appropriate to file the
determination, the person must first start a family law case under
subrule (4.1) of this rule and file the determination within that
family law case.

[en. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 3 (f).]







Filing a requisition to appoint a litigation representative




(4.4)

If a person files a requisition under Rule 20-6 (3) and there is no
existing family law case within which it is appropriate to file the
requisition, the filing of that requisition under that rule starts a
family law case, the style of proceeding of which must be "In the
Matter of the Estate of" followed by the name of the deceased.

[en. B.C. Reg. 90/2014, Sch. 2, s. 2.]







Filing arbitration awards under the
Family Law Act




(4.5)

If a person files under Rule 2-1.2 (1) a requisition to which an
arbitration award is attached and there is no existing family law case
within which it is appropriate to file the requisition, the filing of
the requisition under that rule starts a family law case.

[en. B.C. Reg. 121/2014, s. 3 (c).]







Style of proceedings if filing of arbitration award starts family
law case




(4.6)

If the filing of a requisition starts a family law case under subrule
(4.5) of this rule, the style of proceeding in the family law case
must name the person filing the requisition as "Claimant" and the
other parties to the arbitration as "Respondents".

[en. B.C. Reg. 121/2014, s. 3 (c).]






Joining claims and parties



(5)

A claim that, on its own, would not be the subject matter of a family
law case may be brought in a family law case, and a person by or
against whom any such claim is made may be added as a party in that
family law case, if




(a)

relief referred to in paragraph (a), (b), (c), (d) or (e) of the
definition of "family law case" in Rule 1-1 is being sought in the
family law case, and




(b)

the claim is related to or connected with any of that relief.

[am. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 3 (g).]



Part 4 — Family Law Cases Started by Filing a Notice of Family Claim



Rule 4-1 — Notice of Family Claim






Notice of family claim



(1)

To start a family law case other than a family law case referred to in
Rule 3-1 (2.1), (2.2), (2.3) (b), (2.4) or (4.1), a person must file a
notice of family claim in Form F3.


[A joint family law case is to be brought under Rule 2-2.]



[An application to change, suspend or terminate an existing order is
to be brought under Part 10.]



[am. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 4, as am by B.C. Reg. 67/2013, s. 1 (b).]







Service



(2)

After filing a notice of family claim, the claimant must serve a copy
of the filed notice of family claim on each of the persons named as a
respondent in the notice of family claim




(a)

by personal service in accordance with Rule 6-3 (2), or




(b)

if the court makes an order under Rule 6-4 (1) allowing service by an
alternative method, by that alternative method.



[Rule 4-2 limits the time for service.]


[Part 6 provides instructions about service.]



Rule 4-2 — Serving and Renewing the Notice of Family Claim







Renewal of original notice of family claim




(1)

An original notice of family claim does not remain in force for more
than 12 months, but if a respondent named in a notice of family claim
has not been served, the court, on the application of the claimant
made before or after the expiration of the 12 months, may order that
the original notice of family claim be renewed for a period of not
more than 12 months.








Further renewal of notice of family claim




(2)

If a renewed notice of family claim has not been served on a
respondent named in the notice of family claim, the court, on the
application of the claimant made during the currency of the renewed
notice of family claim, may order the renewal of the notice of family
claim for a further period of not more than 12 months.







When renewal period begins



(3)

Unless the court otherwise orders, a renewal period ordered under
subrule (1) or (2) begins on the date of the order.








After renewal of notice of family claim




(4)

Unless the court otherwise orders, a copy of each order granting
renewal of a notice of family claim must be served with the renewed
notice of family claim, and the renewed notice of family claim remains
in force and is available to prevent the operation of any statutory
limitation and for all other purposes.




Rule 4-3 — Responding to a Notice of Family Claim






Filing a response to family claim



(1)

To respond to a notice of family claim, a person must, within 30 days
after being served,




(a)

file a response to family claim in Form F4, and




(b)

serve a copy of the filed response to family claim on the claimant and
on the other persons named in the notice of family claim as
respondents.








No notice of hearing if no response to family claim




(2)

A person served with a notice of family claim under Rule 4-1 (2) who
does not file a response to family claim in accordance with subrule
(1) of this rule is not entitled to receive notice of any part of the
family law case including, without limitation, any court appearance,
hearing, conference or trial.




Rule 4-4 — Counterclaim






Counterclaim



(1)

In addition to filing a response to family claim under Rule 4-3, a
respondent may bring one or more of the following against the
claimant:




(a)

a claim under the

Divorce Act

;




(b)

a claim under the

Family Law Act

;




(b.1)

a claim for a FHRMIRA order;




(c)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 6 (a).]




(d)

a claim for annulment of marriage;




(e)

a claim,




(i)

based on unjust enrichment or other trust claims, for an interest in
property, or




(ii)

based on unjust enrichment, for compensation


if the claim for the interest or compensation arises out of a
marriage-like relationship;




(f)

a claim that, on its own, would not be the subject matter of a family
law case if the claim is related to or connected with any of the
relief sought in the family law case.



[Orders that may be sought under subrule (1) include orders
concerning guardianship, parenting arrangements or contact with a
child, orders for support for a child or spouse, protection orders,
orders dealing with property and divorce orders.]



[am. B.C. Regs. 133/2012, ss. 5 and 6; 249/2014, s. 2.]







Form of counterclaim



(2)

To seek an order referred to in subrule (1) of this rule, a party
named as a respondent must file a counterclaim in Form F5 within 30
days after being served with the notice of family claim.








Counterclaim may include claims against persons other than the
claimant




(3)

If one or more of the claims made in a counterclaim brought by a
respondent against the claimant also relate to another person, the
respondent may name that other person as a respondent to the
counterclaim.







Service required



(4)

A respondent who files a counterclaim must,




(a)

within 30 days after being served with the notice of family claim,
serve a copy of the filed counterclaim by ordinary service on all
parties, and




(b)

within 60 days after being served with the notice of family claim,
serve a copy of the filed counterclaim and a copy of the filed notice
of family claim by personal service in accordance with Rule 6-3 (2) on
any person who is not yet a party to the family law case but against
whom a claim is made in the counterclaim.








Parties against whom relief is sought must respond




(5)

To respond to a counterclaim, the claimant and any other person named
as a respondent to the counterclaim must, within 30 days after being
served,




(a)

file a response to counterclaim in Form F6, and




(b)

serve a copy of the filed response to counterclaim on all parties.








No notice of hearing if no response to counterclaim




(6)

A person referred to in subrule (4) (b) who does not file a response
to counterclaim in accordance with subrule (5) is not entitled to
receive notice of any part of the family law case including, without
limitation, any court appearance, hearing, conference or trial.








If family law case stayed or discontinued




(7)

A respondent's counterclaim in a family law case may proceed even
though the claimant's claim in the family law case has been stayed,
discontinued or dismissed.







Separate trial of counterclaim



(7.1)

If, on the application of a party against whom a counterclaim is made,
it appears that the subject matter of the counterclaim ought to be
dealt with separately, the court may order that the counterclaim be
struck out or tried separately or may make any other order the court
considers will further the object of these Supreme Court Family Rules.

[en. B.C. Reg. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 2.]






Judgment



(8)

If a set-off or counterclaim establishes a defence to the claimant's
claim, the court may grant judgment in favour of the respondent for
any balance in the respondent's favour or for other relief as the
court considers appropriate.




Rule 4-5 — Other Rules about Notice of Family Claim Cases






Person allegedly involved in adultery



(1)

If it is alleged in a notice of family claim or counterclaim that a
spouse has committed adultery with another person,




(a)

that other person must not be identified in the notice of family claim
or counterclaim unless that other person is named as a party to the
family law case,




(b)

that other person must not be named as a party to the family law case
unless relief, other than or in addition to costs, is claimed against
the person, and




(c)

the identity of that other person may be demanded by the party
alleging adultery, but any information provided in response to that
demand must not be filed before the trial or application for final
order.







Marriage certificate to be filed



(2)

The first person to file in a family law case a document in which a
claim for divorce or nullity is made must file with that document a
certificate of the marriage or of registration of the marriage unless




(a)

the filed document




(i)

sets out the reasons why the certificate is not being filed with the
document and states that the certificate will be filed before the
family law case is set down for trial or before an application is made
for an order of divorce or nullity, or




(ii)

sets out the reasons why it is impossible to file a certificate, and




(b)

the registrar is satisfied with the reasons given for the failure or
inability to file such a certificate.

[am. B.C. Reg. 321/2021, Sch. 2, s. 1.]






Withdrawal



(3)

In a family law case in which a divorce is claimed, a party who has
filed a pleading may withdraw that document or any part of it by
filing and serving a notice of withdrawal in Form F7.




Rule 4-6 — Pleadings Generally


Content of Pleadings






Inconsistent allegations



(1)

A party must not, in a pleading, make an allegation of fact or raise a
new ground or claim inconsistent with the party's previous pleading.







Alternative allegations



(2)

Subrule (1) does not affect the right of a party to make allegations
in the alternative or to amend or apply for leave to amend a pleading.



Particulars






Order for particulars



(3)

The court may order a party to serve further and better particulars of
a matter stated in a pleading.







Demand for particulars



(4)

Before applying to the court for particulars, a party must demand them
in writing from the other party.








Demand for particulars not a stay of proceedings




(5)

A demand for particulars does not operate as a stay of proceedings or
give an extension of time, but a party may apply for an extension of
time for serving a response to family claim or a response to
counterclaim on the ground that the party cannot answer the notice of
family claim or counterclaim respectively until particulars are
provided.




Part 5 — Financial Disclosure



Rule 5-1 — Financial Disclosure


Interpretation






Interpretation



(1)

In this rule:



"applicable income documents"

means, in respect of a person,




(a)

a copy of every personal income tax return filed by the person for
each of the 3 most recent taxation years,




(b)

a copy of every notice of income tax assessment or reassessment issued
to the person for each of the 3 most recent taxation years,




(c)

if the person is receiving employment insurance benefits, a copy of
the 3 most recent employment insurance benefit statements,




(d)

if the person is receiving workers' compensation benefits, a copy of
the 3 most recent workers' compensation benefit statements,




(e)

if the person is receiving income assistance, current documentary
evidence of the income assistance that is being received by that
person,




(f)

if the person is an employee,




(i)

the most recent statement of earnings indicating the total earnings
paid to the person in the year to date, including overtime, or




(ii)

if that statement is not provided by the employer, a letter from the
person's employer setting out the information referred to in
sub-paragraph (i) and including the person's rate of annual salary or
remuneration,




(g)

if the person is self employed, the following information for the 3
most recent taxation years:




(i)

the financial statements of the person's business or professional
practice, other than a partnership;




(ii)

a statement showing a breakdown of all salaries, wages, management
fees or other payments or benefits paid to, or on behalf of, persons
or corporations with whom the person does not deal at arm's length,




(h)

if the person is a partner in a partnership, confirmation of the
person's income and draw from, and capital in, the partnership for
each of its 3 most recent taxation years,




(i)

if the person controls a corporation, the following information for
the corporation's 3 most recent taxation years:




(i)

the financial statements of the corporation and its subsidiaries;




(ii)

a statement showing a breakdown of all salaries, wages, management
fees or other payments or benefits paid to, or on behalf of, persons
or corporations with whom the corporation and every related
corporation does not deal at arm's length,




(j)

if the person is a beneficiary under a trust, a copy of the trust
settlement agreement and copies of the trust's 3 most recent financial
statements, and




(k)

if the person owns or has an interest in real property, a copy of the
most recent assessment notice issued from an assessment authority for
each property;



"child support guidelines"

means,




(a)

in reference to a claim under the

Family Law Act

, the child support guidelines established under the

Family Law Act

, or




(b)

in reference to a claim under the

Divorce Act

, the child support guidelines established under the

Divorce Act

;



"income assistance"

includes




(a)

income assistance within the meaning of the

Employment and Assistance Act

, and




(b)

disability assistance within the meaning of the


Employment and Assistance for Persons with Disabilities Act


;


"party"
means a person named as a party to a family law case who is claiming,
or against whom is claimed,




(a)

an order for child support or an order changing, suspending or
terminating an order for child support,




(b)

an order for spousal support or an order changing, suspending or
terminating an order for spousal support,




(c)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 7 (c), as am. by B.C. Reg. 67/2013,
s. 1 (c).]




(d)

relief under Part 5 of the

Family Law Act

, or




(e)

a FHRMIRA order;


"stepparent"
means, in relation to a child,




(a)

a stepparent of the child within the meaning of section 146 of the

Family Law Act

, or




(b)

a person who stands in the place of a parent for the child within the
meaning of the

Divorce Act

.


[am. B.C. Regs. 133/2012, ss. 5 and 7 (a), (b) and (d) and s. 7 (c),
as am by B.C. Reg. 67/2013, s. 1 (c); 249/2014, s. 3 (a); 321/2021,
Sch. 2, s. 2.]







Application of this rule



(2)

This rule applies to a family law case as follows:




(a)

if, in the family law case, a person is seeking to obtain or to
change, suspend or terminate an order for child support, subrules (1),
(3) to (8) and (11) to (32) apply;




(b)

if, in the family law case, a person is seeking to obtain, review or
change, suspend or terminate an order for spousal support, subrules
(1), (3), (9) and (11) to (32) apply;




(c)

if, in the family law case, a person is seeking to obtain or to
change, suspend or terminate an order for relief under Part 5 of the

Family Law Act

, subrules (1), (3) and (10) to (32) apply;




(c.1)

if, in the family law case, a person is seeking to obtain, vary or
revoke a FHRMIRA order, subrules (1), (3) and (10) to (32) apply;




(d)

if, in the family law case, a person is seeking to set aside or
replace the whole or any part of that portion of an agreement that
deals with child support, subrules (1), (3) to (8) and (11) to (32)
apply;




(e)

if, in the family law case, a person is seeking to review, set aside
or replace the whole or any part of that portion of an agreement that
deals with spousal support, subrules (1), (3), (9) and (11) to (32)
apply.


[am. B.C. Regs. 133/2012, ss. 5 and 7 (e) to (g); 249/2014, s. 3 (b).]







Numbering applicable income documents



(3)

Each page of the applicable income documents that are to be used in
court must be numbered sequentially.



Claims for Child Support







Who must provide Part 1 of a Form F8 financial statement




(4)

Each party who is required under the child support guidelines to
provide income information must file the following documents and must
serve them under subrule (11):




(a)

Part 1 of a Form F8 financial statement;




(b)

the party's applicable income documents;




(c)

any other documents that the party is required to file and serve under
subrules (5) to (7).








Who must provide Parts 2 and 3 of a Form F8 financial statement




(5)

In addition to any other documents a party is obliged to file and
serve under this rule, the party must file Parts 2 and 3 of a Form F8
financial statement and must serve those documents under subrule (11),
if one of the following is true:




(a)

the child support guidelines require the court to consider any or all
of the following:




(i)

the financial ability of the parties;




(ii)

the means of the parties;




(iii)

the condition, means, needs and other circumstances of the parties or
the child;




(b)

the party who is to pay the child support is a stepparent of the
child.








If special or extraordinary expenses are claimed




(6)

A party who makes a claim for special or extraordinary expenses must




(a)

file Part 4 of a Form F8 financial statement, in addition to any other
documents the party is obliged to file under this rule, and




(b)

serve that Part 4 under subrule (11).




["Special or extraordinary expenses" is defined in section 7 of the
child support guidelines.]







If undue hardship is claimed



(7)

In addition to any other documents that a party is obliged to file and
serve under this rule, if a claim for undue hardship is made,




(a)

the party making the claim for undue hardship must file and serve,
under subrule (11), Parts 1, 2, 3, 5 and 6 of a Form F8 financial
statement along with that party's applicable income documents, and




(b)

unless the court otherwise orders, a party other than the party making
the claim for undue hardship must file and serve, under subrule (11),
Parts 1, 2, 3 and 6 of a Form F8 financial statement along with that
party's applicable income documents.




["Undue hardship" is defined in section 10 of the child support
guidelines.]







Agreement avoids need for documents



(8)

Parties are deemed to have complied with the requirements of the child
support guidelines respecting the provision of documents, and with the
requirements of this rule, as it applies to child support, respecting
the filing and service of documents, if




(a)

the parties have agreed on the annual income of the party who is to
pay the child support,




(b)

the parties have signed an agreement in Form F9, and




(c)

the agreement in Form F9 has been filed together with the documents
referred to in that agreement.



Applications for Spousal Support






Who must provide income documents



(9)

In addition to any other documents a party is obliged to file and
serve under this rule, a party must file Parts 1, 2 and 3 of a Form F8
financial statement along with the party's applicable income
documents, and must serve those Parts and applicable income documents
under subrule (11), if one of the following is true:




(a)

the party is seeking to obtain a spousal support order;




(b)

the party is seeking to change, suspend or terminate a spousal support
order;




(c)

a spousal support order is being sought against the party;




(d)

a spousal support order has been obtained against the party and
another party is seeking to change, suspend or terminate that order.

[am. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 7 (e), (h) and (i).]


Applications for Division of Assets







Who must provide Part 3 of a Form F8 financial statement




(10)

Each party who is making a claim under Part 5 of the

Family Law Act

or applying for a FHRMIRA order, or against whom such a claim or an
application is being made, must




(a)

file Part 3 of a Form F8 financial statement, in addition to any other
documents that the party is obliged to file under this rule, and




(b)

serve that Part 3 under subrule (11).


[am. B.C. Regs. 133/2012, s. 5; 249/2014, s. 3 (c).]



Service







When party must file and serve documents




(11)

A party who is obliged to file documents under subrule (4), (5), (6),
(7), (9) or (10) (in this subrule called the "disclosing party") must
file all of those documents that have not already been filed, and
serve on each of the other parties all of those documents that have
not already been served on that party, as follows:




(a)

if the disclosing party's obligation arises because of a claim he or
she made, he or she must file and serve those documents within 30
days, or such other period as the court may order, after service of
the document in which the claim is made;




(b)

if the disclosing party's obligation arises because of a claim made by
another party and the disclosing party resides in Canada or the United
States of America, the disclosing party must file and serve those
documents within 30 days, or such other period as the court may order,
after service of the document in which the claim is made;




(c)

if the disclosing party's obligation arises because of a claim made by
another party and the disclosing party resides in a country other than
Canada or the United States of America, the disclosing party must file
and serve those documents within 60 days, or such other period as the
court may order, after service of the document in which the claim is
made.



Assessment Notice






Assessment notice to be included



(12)

If Part 3 of a Form F8 financial statement is to be served on a party
under this rule, the party serving the Part 3 must, if that party owns
or has an interest in real property, serve, with the Part 3, the most
recent assessment notice prepared for that real property by an
assessment authority unless that assessment notice has already been
served.



Particulars of Form F8 Financial Statements






Particulars may be demanded



(13)

If a Form F8 financial statement lacks sufficient information, the
other party may demand particulars.







Court may order particulars



(14)

If the party from whom particulars are demanded under subrule (13)
fails to provide those particulars within 7 days after receipt of the
demand, the court may, on terms it considers appropriate, make any
order it considers will further the object of these Supreme Court
Family Rules, including




(a)

an order that particulars be served within a specified time, or




(b)

an order that a new Form F8 financial statement be served within a
specified time.



Changes in Financial Circumstances






Information must be kept current



(15)

If information contained in a document filed and served under this
rule is rendered inaccurate or incomplete by a material change in
circumstances, the party who filed and served that document must,
promptly after that material change, serve on all parties




(a)

a written statement setting out the accurate and complete information,
or




(b)

a revised Form F8 financial statement containing the accurate and
complete information.







Additional documents



(16)

If the material change in circumstances referred to in subrule (15) is
such that the party becomes obliged to file and serve documents under
this rule that are additional to the documents previously filed and
served under this rule by that party, the party must




(a)

serve copies of those additional documents within 28 days after the
material change, and




(b)

comply with subrule (15) in relation to the previously served
documents.








If written statement or particulars provided




(17)

If a party provides particulars under subrule (13) or (14) (a) or
serves a written statement under subrule (15) (a),




(a)

the particulars or statement may be treated at a trial or hearing as
forming part of the original Form F8 financial statement of the party,
and




(b)

the other party may, with leave of the court, require that the
particulars or statement be




(i)

verified by an affidavit of the party providing the particulars or
serving the statement, or




(ii)

the subject of further cross-examination.







Updated statements



(18)

A party who has served a Form F8 financial statement more than 91 days
before the start of the trial or hearing of an application to which a
Form F8 is relevant must serve on all parties an updated Form F8
financial statement at least 28 days before but not more than 63 days
before the start of the trial or hearing.



Disclosure of Business Interests






Production of documents



(19)

If a party discloses business or corporate interests in a Form F8
financial statement served under this rule, the party receiving the
Form F8 financial statement may, in writing, request the disclosing
party to produce for inspection and copying specified documents or
classes of documents in the disclosing party's possession or control
that might reasonably be required to verify the valuation of the
disclosing party's interest or to determine the disclosing party's
income.







Responding to demand



(20)

A party who receives a request under subrule (19) must, within 21 days
after receipt, serve on the requesting party a notice stating




(a)

a time and place, during normal business hours, at which the documents
may be inspected, and




(b)

the cost of copying the documents.








Request to corporation, partnership or proprietorship




(21)

If a party who makes a request under subrule (19) is not satisfied
with the reply to the request, the requesting party may serve on the
corporation, partnership or proprietorship in which the disclosing
party has disclosed an interest a written request to produce for
inspection all documents that are relevant to the valuation of the
interest or the determination of the disclosing party's income.







Production required



(22)

A corporation, partnership or proprietorship that receives a request
under subrule (21) must, within 21 days after receipt, provide a
written statement to the requesting party




(a)

detailing the documents in its possession or control that it is
obliged to produce in response to the request,




(b)

identifying those documents, if any, in respect of which the
corporation, partnership or proprietorship intends to seek an
exemption under subrule (24),




(c)

specifying a time and place at which the documents for which an
exemption is not being sought may be inspected, and




(d)

specifying the cost of copying the documents for which an exemption is
not being sought.







Application to court for directions



(23)

A corporation, partnership or proprietorship or either of the parties
may apply to the court at any time for directions respecting any
request for production of documents under subrule (19) or (21),
including directions respecting payment of the costs of copying the
documents, and the court may give those directions accordingly.







Application to court for exemption



(24)

A corporation, partnership or proprietorship may, within 21 days after
the date a request is served on it under subrule (21), apply to the
court for an order exempting it from the requirement to produce any
document.







Application by person authorized



(25)

An application under subrule (23) or (24) may be made on behalf of a
corporation or partnership by a person who has been authorized by the
corporation or partnership for that purpose.







Court may order exemption



(26)

On an exemption application under subrule (24), the court may make an
order exempting the applicant from the requirement to produce all or
any of the requested documents if the court considers that




(a)

the documents and information already received by the party who made
the request under subrule (21) are sufficient for the purposes of the
main application,




(b)

the production of the documents is not necessary for the purposes of
the main application,




(c)

in the case of a corporation, the prejudice that is likely to be
suffered by the corporation, or to its directors or shareholders, if
the exemption is not granted outweighs the prejudice that is likely to
be suffered by the person requesting the documents if the exemption is
granted, or




(d)

in the case of a partnership, the prejudice that is likely to be
suffered by the partnership, or to its partners or associates, if the
exemption is not granted outweighs the prejudice that is likely to be
suffered by the person requesting the documents if the exemption is
granted.







Costs



(27)

The court may order that the costs of producing documents under
subrule (20) or (22) and the costs of an application under subrule
(23) or (24) be paid in favour of or against




(a)

either of the parties to the family law case, or




(b)

the corporation, the partnership or the owner of the proprietorship,
as the case may be.



Enforcement of This Rule






Relief



(28)

Without limiting Rule 21-5 and any other powers the court may have
under the

Family Law Act

, if a party fails to comply with a requirement under this rule to
file or serve a Form F8 financial statement or any applicable income
document or fails to comply with an order under this rule to provide
particulars, the court may do any or all of the following:




(a)

order that the Form F8 financial statement, applicable income document
or particulars, as the case may be, be filed or served or both on
terms the court considers appropriate;




(b)

dismiss all or part of that party's claim or application;




(c)

strike out all or part of that party's response to family claim or
response to counterclaim;




(d)

proceed under Rule 21-7 to punish the party for contempt of court;




(e)

impose a fine under section 213 (2) (d) (iii) of the

Family Law Act

;




(f)

draw an adverse inference against the party;




(g)

attribute income to that party in an amount the court considers
appropriate;




(h)

make an order as to costs.



[Rule 21-5 sets out what the court may do if parties fail to comply
with these rules.]


[am. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 7 (j) and (k).]


Confidentiality of Information






Confidentiality



(29)

Any person who has access to documents obtained under this rule must
keep the documents and any information contained in them in confidence
and must not disclose the documents or information to anyone other
than




(a)

for the purposes of a valuation of an asset,




(b)

for a determination of the disclosing party's income, or




(c)

in the course of permitting the documents to be introduced into
evidence during the family law case.







Sealing of financial information



(30)

If the court considers that public disclosure of any information filed
under this rule would be a hardship on the person in respect of whom
the information is filed,




(a)

the court may order that the whole or any part of the document in
which the information is contained, and the whole or any part of the
transcript of the cross-examination on the document, must promptly be
sealed in an envelope, and




(b)

if an order is made under paragraph (a), no person may search the
sealed documents without an order of the court.



Conflict with Guidelines






Child support guidelines prevail



(31)

If and to the extent that there is a conflict between any provision of
this rule and a provision of the child support guidelines, the
provision of the child support guidelines prevails.







No conflict



(32)

For the purposes of subrule (31), it is not a conflict between the
child support guidelines and this rule merely because this rule




(a)

requires a person to provide information that is different from or
additional to the information, if any, that that person would be
obliged to provide under the child support guidelines,




(b)

requires that certain information required by this rule but not by the
child support guidelines be presented in a manner or form that is
different from the manner or form in which information required under
the child support guidelines is to be presented, or




(c)

requires the provision, in one manner or form, of information some or
all of which is required under the child support guidelines to be
provided in a different manner or form.




Part 6 — Service



Rule 6-1 — Address for Service







Required addresses for service of party represented by lawyer




(1)

A party to a family law case who is represented by a lawyer must have,
as the party's addresses for service, both




(a)

an e-mail address, if available, and




(b)

an accessible address that is an office address of that lawyer.

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 2.]







Required addresses for service of unrepresented party




(1.1)

A party to a family law case who is not represented by a lawyer must




(a)

have, as the party's addresses for service, both




(i)

an e-mail address, if available, and




(ii)

an accessible address within 30 kilometres of the registry, or




(b)

if the party does not have an accessible address within 30 kilometres
of the registry, have, as the party's addresses for service, both




(i)

an e-mail address, if available, and




(ii)

either




(A)

a postal address in British Columbia, or




(B)

a fax number.

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 2.]






Additional addresses for service



(2)

A party may have, in addition to the address or addresses for service
the party is required to have under subrule (1) or (1.1), one or more
of the following as addresses for service:




(a)

a postal address;




(b)

a fax number;




(c)

an additional e-mail address.

[am. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 3.]






Change of address for service



(3)

A party may change the party's address or addresses for service by
filing and serving on the other parties a notice of address for
service in Form F10 that shows, for the party,




(a)

the address or addresses for service required under subrule (1) or
(1.1), and




(b)

any additional addresses for service referred to in subrule (2) that
the party wishes to include.

[am. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 4.]



Rule 6-2 — Ordinary Service



[See Rule 6-5 for rules on how service is effected outside British
Columbia.]








Documents normally to be served by ordinary service




(1)

Subject to Rule 6-3 (1) and unless the court otherwise orders,
documents to be served by a party under these Supreme Court Family
Rules may be served by ordinary service.








How to serve documents by ordinary service




(2)

Unless the court otherwise orders, ordinary service of a document is
to be effected




(a)

on a person, other than the FMEP Director, in any of the following
ways:




(i)

by leaving the document at the person's address for service;




(ii)

by mailing the document by ordinary mail to the person's address for
service;




(iii)

subject to subrule (5) of this rule, if a fax number is provided as
one of the person's addresses for service, by faxing the document to
that fax number together with a fax cover sheet;




(iv)

if an e-mail address is provided as one of the person's addresses for
service, by e-mailing the document to that e-mail address, or




(b)

on the FMEP Director by




(i)

mailing it to the post office box number provided by the FMEP
Director, or




(ii)

faxing it to the fax number provided by the FMEP Director.








When service by delivery is deemed to be completed




(3)

A document served by leaving it at a person's address for service is
deemed to be served on the person as follows:




(a)

if the document is left at the address for service at or before 4 p.m.
on a day that is not a Saturday or holiday, the document is deemed to
be served on the day of service;




(b)

if the document is left at the address for service on a Saturday or
holiday or after 4 p.m. on any other day, the document is deemed to be
served on the next day that is not a Saturday or holiday.








When service by mail is deemed to be completed




(4)

A document sent for service by ordinary mail under this rule is deemed
to be served one week later on the same day of the week as the day of
mailing or, if that deemed day of service is a Saturday or holiday, on
the next day that is not a Saturday or holiday.







When documents may be served by fax



(5)

A document may be served by fax as follows:




(a)

if the document, including the fax cover sheet, is less than 30 pages,
the document may be served by fax at any time;




(b)

if the document, including the fax cover sheet, is 30 pages or more,
the document may be served by fax if it is transmitted




(i)

between 5 p.m. and the following 8 a.m., or




(ii)

at another time if the person receiving the document agreed to that
time before service.








When service by fax or e-mail is deemed to be completed




(6)

A document transmitted for service by fax or e-mail under this rule is
deemed to be served as follows:




(a)

if the document is transmitted before 4 p.m. on a day that is not a
Saturday or holiday, the document is deemed to be served on the day of
transmission;




(b)

if the document is transmitted on a Saturday or holiday or after 4
p.m. on any other day, the document is deemed to be served on the next
day that is not a Saturday or holiday.



[Sunday is a holiday for the purposes of this Rule.]






If no address for service given



(7)

If, despite these Supreme Court Family Rules, a party on whom a
document is to be served has no address for service, and if these
Supreme Court Family Rules do not specify that the document must be
served by personal service on the party,




(a)

the document may be served by mailing a copy of the document by
ordinary mail to




(i)

the lawyer acting for the party in the family law case, or




(ii)

if the party has no lawyer in the family law case, to the party's last
known address, and




(b)

subrule (4) applies.








Request for copy of document served by e-mail




(8)

If a document is transmitted for service by e-mail and the person
receiving the document requests, within 3 days of receiving that
document, that a copy be sent to another address for service for that
person, the party who served the document by e-mail must provide the
copy at the requested address for service within 7 days of receiving
that request or as agreed upon by the parties.

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 5.]



Rule 6-3 — Personal Service



[See Rule 6-5 for rules on how service is effected outside British
Columbia.]








When documents must be served by personal service




(1)

Unless the court otherwise orders, the following documents must be
served by personal service in accordance with subrule (2):




(a)

a notice of family claim;




(b)

a petition;




(c)

a counterclaim if that counterclaim is being served on a person who
has not yet filed a pleading in the family law case;




(d)

a notice of withdrawal under Rule 2-2 (3) or 4-5 (3);




(e)

a notice of application to




(i)

change, suspend or terminate an existing final order,




(ii)

set aside or replace the whole or any part of an agreement filed under
Rule 2-1 (2),




(iii)

change or set aside the determination of a parenting coordinator filed
under Rule 2-1.1 (1), or




(iv)

change, suspend or terminate an arbitration award filed under Rule
2-1.2 (1),


and the accompanying documents referred to in Rule 10-6 (6);




(f)

a summons to appear at a default hearing or show cause hearing under
Rule 15-5 (1);




(g)

a summons to appear at a committal hearing under Rule 15-5 (2);




(h)

a notice of application under Rule 21-7 for an order for contempt;




(i)

a subpoena to a witness who is not a party;




(j)

a subpoena to a debtor;




(k)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 8 (b).]




(l)

any document not mentioned in paragraphs (a) to (k) of this subrule
that is to be served on a person who is not a party to the family law
case or who has not provided an address for service in the family law
case under Rule 10-6 (10).

[am. B.C. Regs. 133/2012, s. 8; 121/2014, s. 4.]







How to serve documents by personal service




(2)

Unless the court otherwise orders, personal service of a document is
to be effected,




(a)

if the document is to be served on an individual, by having a person
who is not a party and who is at least 19 years of age leave the
document with the individual to be served,




(b)

if the document is to be served on the FMEP Director, by




(i)

mailing it to the post office box number provided by the FMEP
Director, or




(ii)

faxing it to the fax number provided by the FMEP Director,




(c)

if the document is to be served on a corporation,




(i)

by leaving a copy of the document with the president, chair, mayor or
other chief officer of the corporation,




(ii)

by leaving a copy of the document with the city clerk or municipal
clerk,




(iii)

by leaving a copy of the document with the manager, cashier,
superintendent, treasurer, secretary, clerk or agent of the
corporation or of any branch or agency of the corporation in British
Columbia, or




(iv)

in the manner provided by the

Business Corporations Act

or any enactment relating to the service of court documents,


and, for the purpose of this paragraph, if the chief place of business
of the corporation is outside British Columbia, every person who,
within British Columbia, transacts or carries on any of the business
of, or any business for, that corporation is deemed to be an agent of
the corporation,




(d)

if the document is to be served on an unincorporated association,
other than a trade union, by leaving a copy of the document with any
officer of the association,




(e)

if the document is to be served on a trade union, by leaving a copy of
the document with any officer of the trade union or with a business
agent,




(f)

if the document is to be served on an infant, in the manner provided
by the

Infants Act

,




(g)

if the document is to be served on a mentally incompetent person, by
leaving a copy of the document




(i)

with the person's committee or, if there is no committee, with the
person with whom the mentally incompetent person resides or in whose
care he or she is or with the person appointed by the court to be
served in the mentally incompetent person's place, and




(ii)

with the Public Guardian and Trustee,


and in no case is it necessary to show the original document,




(h)

if the document is to be served on a principal referred to in subrule
(3), in accordance with subrules (3) to (5), or




(i)

if the document is to be served on the Attorney General, in accordance
with subrule (6).







Service on Attorney General



(3)

A document to be served on the Attorney General must be served at the
Ministry of Attorney General in the City of Victoria, and is
sufficiently served if it is left during office hours with any lawyer
on the staff of the Attorney General at Victoria or mailed by
registered mail to the Deputy Attorney General at Victoria.


[am. B.C. Regs. 27/2013, Sch. 2, s. 15; 99/2018, Sch. 2, s. 18.]








When personal service is deemed to be completed




(4)

A document served by personal service is deemed to be served as
follows:




(a)

if the document is served before 4 p.m. on a day that is not a
Saturday or holiday, the document is deemed to be served on the day of
service;




(b)

if the document is served on a Saturday or holiday or after 4 p.m. on
any other day, the document is deemed to be served on the next day
that is not a Saturday or holiday.



[Sunday is a holiday for the purposes of this subrule.]






Date of deemed service



(5)

If a notice of family claim, counterclaim or petition has not been
served on a person, but the person files a response to family claim,
response to counterclaim or response to petition or attends at the
trial or hearing, the notice of family claim, counterclaim or petition
is deemed to have been served on that person on the date the person
files or attends.




Rule 6-4 — Alternative Methods of Service






Alternative service methods



(1)

If it is impracticable to serve a document by personal service or if
the person to be served by personal service




(a)

cannot be found after a diligent search, or




(b)

is evading service of the documents,


the court may, on application without notice, make an order for
substituted service granting permission to use an alternative method
of service.

[am. B.C. Reg. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 3 (a).]







If an alternative service method is permitted




(2)

If a document is to be served by an alternative method permitted under
subrule (1), a copy of the entered substituted service order that
granted permission to use that alternative method must be served with
the document unless




(a)

the court otherwise orders, or




(b)

the alternative method of service permitted under subrule (1) is
service by advertisement.

[am. B.C. Reg. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 3 (b).]






Service by advertisement



(3)

If, under subrule (1), the court permits a document to be served by
advertisement, the advertisement must be in Form F11.




Rule 6-5 — Service Outside British Columbia







Service outside British Columbia without leave




(1)

A notice of family claim, counterclaim, petition or other document in
a family law case may be served on a person outside British Columbia
without leave if the court has jurisdiction in relation to the family
law case under section 10 of the

Court Jurisdiction and Proceedings Transfer Act

, section 74 of the

Family Law Act

or section 3 or 4 of the

Divorce Act

.

[am. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 9.]







Application for leave to serve outside the jurisdiction




(2)

In any case not provided for in subrule (1), leave of the court must
be obtained before a notice of family claim, counterclaim, petition or
other document may be served outside British Columbia, and the court
may grant such leave on an application referred to in subrule (3).








Applications may be made without notice




(3)

An application for leave to serve a person outside British Columbia




(a)

may be made without notice in accordance with Rule 10-5 (1) (c), and




(b)

must be supported by an affidavit or other evidence showing




(i)

in what place or country that person is or probably may be found, and




(ii)

the grounds on which the application is made.







Service of order and related documents



(4)

If an order is made granting leave to serve a notice of family claim,
counterclaim, petition or other document outside British Columbia, the
following documents must be served with that notice of family claim,
counterclaim, petition or other document:




(a)

a copy of the filed notice of application, or requisition, for leave
to serve;




(b)

a copy of all filed affidavits in support of the application;




(c)

a copy of the entered order granting leave to serve.







If service without leave valid



(5)

This rule does not invalidate service of a document outside British
Columbia without leave of the court if the document could have been
validly served apart from this rule.







Contract containing terms for service



(6)

Despite this rule, the parties to a contract may agree




(a)

that the court will have jurisdiction to hear a family law case in
respect of the contract, and




(b)

that a document in the family law case may be served




(i)

at any place, within or outside British Columbia,




(ii)

on any party,




(iii)

on any person on behalf of any party, or




(iv)

in any manner

specified in the contract.







Contract does not invalidate effective service




(7)

Service of a document in accordance with a contract referred to in
subrule (6) is effective service, but no contractual stipulation as to
service of a document invalidates service that would otherwise be
effective under these Supreme Court Family Rules.







Definition



(8)

In subrules (9) to (12),
"Convention"
means the Convention on the Service Abroad of Judicial and
Extrajudicial Documents in Civil or Commercial Matters, signed at the
Hague on November 15, 1965.







Manner of service abroad



(9)

A document may be served outside British Columbia




(a)

in a manner provided by these Supreme Court Family Rules for service
in British Columbia,




(b)

in a manner provided by the law of the place where service is made if,
by that manner of service, the document could reasonably be expected
to come to the notice of the person to be served, or




(c)

in a state that is a contracting state under the Convention, in a
manner provided by or permitted under the Convention.







Proof of service abroad



(10)

Service of a document outside British Columbia may be proved




(a)

in a manner provided by these Supreme Court Family Rules for proof of
service in British Columbia,




(b)

in the manner provided for proof of service by the law of the place
where service was made regardless of the manner under subrule (9) by
which service was effected, or




(c)

in accordance with the Convention, if service was effected under
subrule (9) (c).







Forms



(11)

If service is to be made in accordance with Article 5 of the
Convention, Forms F12 and F13 must be used.







Certificate



(12)

If an authority has, in accordance with Article 6 of the Convention,
completed a certificate in Form F14, the certificate is evidence of
the facts stated in it.




Rule 6-6 — Proving Service






Proof of service



(1)

Service of a document is proved as follows:




(a)

service of a notice of family claim on a person is proved




(i)

by filing an affidavit of personal service in Form F15, or




(ii)

by the person filing a response to family claim;




(b)

service of a counterclaim on a person who has not filed a pleading is
proved




(i)

by filing an affidavit of personal service in Form F15, or




(ii)

by the person filing a response to counterclaim;




(c)

service of a petition on a person is proved




(i)

by filing an affidavit of personal service in Form F15, or




(ii)

by the person filing a response to petition;




(d)

service of any other document served by personal service is proved by
filing an affidavit of personal service in Form F15;




(e)

service of any document that is served by ordinary service is proved




(i)

by filing an affidavit of ordinary service in Form F16, or




(ii)

by filing a requisition in Form F17 to which is attached a written
acknowledgment of receipt signed by the party or lawyer on whom the
document was served.







Proof of service by sheriff



(2)

Service of a document by a sheriff may be proved by a certificate in
Form F18 endorsed on a copy of the document.








Service on member of Canadian Armed Forces




(3)

If a member of the Canadian Armed Forces has been served with a
document by an officer of the Canadian Armed Forces, proof of the
service in the form of a certificate annexed to a copy of the document
served, signed by the officer and stating his or her rank and when,
where and how service was effected, may be filed as proof of service.








Admissibility of other evidence of service




(4)

Nothing in subrule (1) or (2) restricts the court from considering any
other evidence of service that the court considers appropriate in the
circumstances.




Rule 6-7 — Relief







If service is alleged to be ineffective




(1)

If a document has been served in accordance with this Part but a
person can show that the document




(a)

did not come to his or her notice,




(b)

came to his or her notice later than when it was served, or




(c)

was incomplete or illegible,


the court may set aside an order, extend time, order an adjournment or
make such other order as it considers will further the object of these
Supreme Court Family Rules.




Part 7 — Conferences



Rule 7-1 — Judicial Case Conference


Requirement for Judicial Case Conference






Requesting a judicial case conference



(1)

A party may request a judicial case conference at any time, whether or
not one or more judicial case conferences have already been held in
the family law case.








Requirement to hold judicial case conference




(2)

Subject to subrules (3) and (4), unless a judicial case conference has
been conducted in a family law case, a party to the family law case
must not serve on another party a notice of application or an
affidavit in support.



Exceptions







Applications that may be brought before a judicial case conference




(3)

A party to a family law case may file and serve a notice of
application and supporting affidavits in respect of any of the
following applications even though a judicial case conference has not
been conducted in the family law case:




(a)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 10 (a).]




(b)

an application for an order under section 91 of the

Family Law Act

restraining the disposition of any property at issue;




(b.1)

an application for an order under section 32 or 39 of the


Family Homes on Reserves and Matrimonial Interests or Rights Act


(Canada) or a First Nation's law made under that Act with respect to
an equivalent matter;




(c)

an application for a consent order;




(d)

an application without notice;




(e)

an application to change, suspend or terminate a final order;




(f)

an application to set aside or replace the whole or any part of an
agreement;




(g)

an application to change or set aside the determination of a parenting
coordinator.


[am. B.C. Regs. 133/2012, s. 10 (a) to (c); 249/2014, s. 4.]








Court may relieve party from requirement of subrule (2)




(4)

On application by a party, the court may relieve a party from the
requirement of subrule (2) if




(a)

it is premature to require the parties to attend a judicial case
conference,




(b)

it is impracticable or unfair to require the party to comply with the
requirements of subrule (2),




(c)

the application referred to in subrule (2) is urgent,




(d)

delaying the application referred to in subrule (2) or requiring the
party to attend a judicial case conference is or might be dangerous to
the health or safety of any person, or




(e)

the court considers it appropriate that the party be relieved from
that requirement.







How to apply for relief



(5)

To bring an application for relief under subrule (4), a party must
file a requisition in Form F18.1.

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 6 (a).]






Powers of the court



(6)

On an application for relief under subrule (4), the court may do one
or more of the following:




(a)

require that further material be provided;




(b)

require that the party or lawyer appear in person to speak to the
application;




(c)

make the order without requiring the party or lawyer to appear to
speak to the application;




(d)

refuse to make the order;




(e)

make any order the court considers will further the object of these
Supreme Court Family Rules.



Arranging the Judicial Case Conference







How to request a judicial case conference




(7)

To request a judicial case conference, a party must file a notice of
judicial case conference in Form F19.








What must be served if judicial case conference is requested




(8)

The party requesting a judicial case conference must serve on all
parties, at least 30 days before the date set for the judicial case
conference,




(a)

a copy of the filed notice of judicial case conference, and




(b)

a copy of the Form F8 financial statement, if any, required under Rule
5-1, along with the applicable income documents referred to in section
B of Part 1 of the Form F8 financial statement.








Court may require a judicial case conference




(9)

At any stage of a family law case, the court may direct that a
judicial case conference take place and may order a party to




(a)

file a notice of judicial case conference, and




(b)

serve a copy of the filed notice of judicial case conference along
with any financial documents required under subrule (8) (b) in
accordance with subrule (8).








Form F8 financial statement must be filed before judicial case
conference




(10)

A party serving a notice of judicial case conference in accordance
with subrule (8) or (9) must, at least 7 days before the date set for
the judicial case conference, file the original of the Form F8
financial statement, if any, required under Rule 5-1 along with the
applicable income documents referred to in section B of Part 1 of the
Form F8 financial statement.








Other parties must file and serve Form F8 financial statement




(11)

At least 7 days before the date set for a judicial case conference, a
party who has been served with a notice of judicial case conference in
accordance with subrule (8) or (9) must




(a)

serve on the party who served the notice of judicial case conference
and on every other party a copy of the Form F8 financial statement, if
any, required under Rule 5-1 along with the applicable income
documents referred to in section B of Part 1 of the Form F8 financial
statement, and




(b)

file the original Form F8 financial statement along with the
applicable income documents referred to in section B of Part 1 of the
Form F8 financial statement.



Conduct of Judicial Case Conference







Judicial case conference must be conducted by judge or associate
judge




(12)

A judicial case conference must be conducted by a judge or associate
judge.

[am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3, s. 5.]







Who must attend the judicial case conference




(13)

Unless the court otherwise orders, if a judicial case conference is
held, each of the parties and the party's lawyer must attend that
judicial case conference.

[am. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 6 (b).]







Application must be made by requisition




(13.1)

An application under subrule (13) for an order exempting a person from
attending a judicial case conference must be made by requisition in
Form F19.1.

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 6 (c).]







Absent parties must be available and accessible by telephone or
other means




(14)

If the court orders that a party need not attend a judicial case
conference, the party must be readily available and immediately
accessible for consultation during the judicial case conference,
either in person or by telephone.








What happens at the judicial case conference




(15)

The court may do one or more of the following at a judicial case
conference:




(a)

identify the issues that are in dispute and those that are not in
dispute and explore ways in which the issues in dispute may be
resolved without recourse to trial;




(b)

make orders to which all the parties consent;




(c)

mediate any of the issues in dispute;




(d)

with the consent of the parties, refer the parties to a family dispute
resolution professional, within the meaning of the

Family Law Act

, other than a family justice counsellor;




(e)

refer the parties to a family justice counsellor, or to a person
designated by the Attorney General to provide specialized support
assistance, if the court has received written advice from the regional
manager that the family justice counsellor or designated person is
readily available to the parties;




(f)

direct a party to attend the Parenting after Separation program
operated by the Family Justice Services Division (Justice Services
Branch), Ministry of Attorney General;




(g)

make orders respecting amendment of a pleading, petition or response
to petition within a fixed time;




(h)

make orders requiring that particulars be provided in relation to any
matter raised in a pleading;




(i)

make orders respecting discovery of documents;




(j)

make orders respecting examinations for discovery;




(k)

direct that any or all applications must be made within a specified
time;




(l)

reserve a trial date for the family law case or reserve a date for a
trial that is restricted to issues defined by the parties;




(m)

set a date for a trial management conference under Rule 14-3;




(n)

make any orders that may be made at a trial management conference
under Rule 14-3 (9);




(o)

without hearing witnesses, give a non-binding opinion on the probable
outcome of a hearing or trial;




(p)

without limiting any other orders respecting timing that may be made
under this subrule, make orders respecting timing of events;




(q)

adjourn the judicial case conference;




(r)

direct the parties to attend a further judicial case conference at a
specified date and time;




(s)

make any procedural order or give any direction that the court
considers will further the object of these Supreme Court Family Rules.


[am. B.C. Regs. 133/2012, s. 10 (d); 27/2013, Sch. 2, s. 15; 99/2018,
Sch. 2, s. 18.]








Non-attendance at judicial case conference




(16)

Without limiting any other power of the court under these Supreme
Court Family Rules, if a party fails to appear at a judicial case
conference, the court may




(a)

proceed in the absence of the party who failed to appear,




(b)

exercise any of the powers of the court under subrule (15) of this
rule, and




(c)

order that the party who failed to appear pay costs to the other
party.








Judge or associate judge may be seized of further applications




(17)

At a judicial case conference, or at any other time, a judge or
associate judge may order that all applications in the family law case
be heard by that judge or associate judge.

[am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3, s. 5.]







Other judges or associate judges may hear applications




(18)

A judge or associate judge who has made an order under subrule (17)
may at any time direct that any or all applications in the family law
case may be heard by another judge or associate judge.

[am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3, s. 5.]






Proceedings must be recorded



(19)

Proceedings at a judicial case conference must be recorded, but no
part of that recording may be made available to or used by any person
without court order.

[en. B.C. Reg. 95/2011, Sch. B, s. 1.]



Rule 7-2 — Settlement Conferences






Settlement conference



(1)

If, at any stage of a family law case, the parties jointly request a
settlement conference by filing a requisition in Form F17 or a judge
or associate judge directs the parties to attend a settlement
conference, the parties must attend before a judge or associate judge
who must, in private and without hearing witnesses, explore all
possibilities of settlement of the issues that are outstanding.

[am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3, s. 5.]






Proceedings must be recorded



(2)

Proceedings at a settlement conference must be recorded, but no part
of that recording may be made available to or used by any person
without court order.







When judge must not preside



(3)

A judge who has presided at a settlement conference must not preside
at the trial, unless all parties consent.




Part 7.1 — Case Planning



Rule 7.1-1 — Case Planning Conferences







Case planning conference may be requested




(1)

At any time after a judicial case conference has been held in a family
law case, a party may request a case planning conference by




(a)

obtaining a date and time for the case planning conference from the
registry, and




(b)

filing a notice of case planning conference in Form F19.2.

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 7.]







Case planning conference may be directed




(2)

Without limiting subrule (1), at any time after a judicial case
conference has been held in a family law case, the court




(a)

may direct that a case planning conference take place, and




(b)

in that case, must direct that a party request a case planning
conference in accordance with subrule (1).

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 7.]






Time for service of notice



(3)

Unless the court otherwise orders or the parties otherwise agree, a
party who is requesting a case planning conference under
subrule (1) or who has been directed to request a case planning
conference under subrule (2) must serve the filed notice of case
planning conference on the other parties,




(a)

in the case of the first case planning conference to be held in the
family law case, at least 35 days, or any shorter period that the
court may order, before the date set for the case planning conference,
and




(b)

in the case of any other case planning conference to be held in the
family law case, at least 7 days, or any shorter period that the
court may order, before the date set for the case planning conference.

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 7.]







Application must be made by requisition




(4)

An application under subrule (3) (a) or (b) to shorten the service
period applicable to a notice of case planning conference




(a)

must be made by requisition in Form F18.1, and




(b)

unless the court otherwise orders, may be made without notice.


[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 7; am. B.C. Reg. 239/2023, Sch. 2,
s. 1.]







Case plan proposal required



(5)

Unless the court otherwise orders, if a case planning conference is
requested or ordered under this rule, the parties must, before the
first case planning conference to be held in the family law case, file
case plan proposals as follows:




(a)

the party who is requesting the case planning conference must, within
14 days after serving the notice of case planning conference,




(i)

file the party's case plan proposal, and




(ii)

serve a copy of the filed case plan proposal on all other parties;




(b)

each other party must, within 14 days after receipt of the case plan
proposal referred to in paragraph (a),




(i)

file the party's case plan proposal, and




(ii)

serve a copy of the filed case plan proposal on all other parties.

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 7.]






Contents of case plan proposal



(6)

A party's case plan proposal referred to in subrule (5) must be in
Form F19.3 and must, in a summary manner, indicate the party's
proposal with respect to the following steps:




(a)

discovery of documents;




(b)

examinations for discovery;




(c)

obtaining the views of a child, if appropriate;




(d)

dispute resolution procedures;




(e)

expert witnesses;




(f)

witness lists;




(g)

trial type, estimated trial length and preferred periods for the trial
date.

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 7.]



Rule 7.1-2 — Conduct of Case Planning Conference







Case planning conference must be conducted by judge or associate
judge




(1)

A case planning conference held in a family law case must be conducted
by a judge or associate judge.


[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 7; am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3,
s. 5.]







Who must attend



(2)

Unless the court otherwise orders, the following persons must attend a
case planning conference in accordance with subrule (3):




(a)

each lawyer representing a party;




(b)

a party if




(i)

the party is not represented by a lawyer in the family law case, or




(ii)

the party is ordered to attend by the court.

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 7.]






Method of attendance



(3)

Unless the court otherwise orders, a lawyer or party referred to in
subrule (2) must attend a case planning conference held in the family
law case




(a)

in person, or




(b)

by telephone, video conference or other communication medium, if all
persons participating in the case planning conference, whether by
telephone, video conference or other communication medium or in
person, are able to communicate with each other.

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 7.]







Application must be made by requisition




(4)

Each application under subrule (2) for an order exempting a person
from attending a case planning conference




(a)

must be made by requisition in Form F19.1, and




(b)

unless the court otherwise orders, may be made without notice.

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 7.]






Considerations of the court



(5)

If an application is brought under subrule (2) for an order exempting
a person from attending a case planning conference, the court may make
such an order if the court considers that




(a)

attendance must be excused on health or compassionate grounds, or




(b)

other extraordinary circumstances exist that justify the order.

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 7.]







Non-attendance at case planning conference




(6)

If a person who, under subrule (2), is required to attend a case
planning conference fails to attend at that case planning conference,
the case planning conference judge or associate judge may do one or
more of the following:




(a)

proceed in the absence of the person who failed to attend;




(b)

adjourn the case planning conference;




(c)

order that the person, or the party on whose behalf the person was to
attend, pay costs to one or more other parties.


[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 7; am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3,
s. 5.]







Proceedings must be recorded



(7)

Proceedings at a case planning conference must be recorded, but no
part of that recording may be made available to or used by any person
without court order.

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 7.]



Rule 7.1-3 — Case Planning Conference Orders






Orders



(1)

At a case planning conference, the case planning conference judge or
associate judge may make one or more of the following orders in
respect of the family law case, whether or not on the application of a
party:




(a)

setting a timetable for the steps to be taken;




(b)

amending a previous case plan order;




(c)

any order referred to in Rule 21-2 (2);




(d)

requiring amendment of a pleading to provide details of one or more of
the following matters set out in that pleading:




(i)

the facts,




(ii)

the relief sought, or




(iii)

the legal basis on which relief is sought or opposed;




(e)

respecting the length and content of pleadings;




(f)

respecting discovery, listing, production, preservation, exchange or
examination of documents or exhibits, including, without limitation,
orders




(i)

respecting electronically stored information, and




(ii)

that discovery, listing, production, exchange or examination be
limited or otherwise conducted as ordered;




(g)

respecting discovery of parties or the examination or inspection of
persons or property, including, without limitation, that discovery,
examination or inspection be limited, expanded or otherwise conducted
in the manner ordered;




(h)

respecting interrogatories;




(i)

respecting third party claims, including imposing terms on any third
party procedure to limit or avoid any prejudice or unnecessary delay
that might otherwise be suffered by the claimant as a result of that
third party procedure;




(j)

respecting witness lists;




(k)

respecting experts, including, without limitation, orders




(i)

that the expert evidence on any one or more issues be given by one
jointly-instructed expert,




(ii)

respecting the number of experts a party may call,




(iii)

that the parties' experts must confer before the service of their
respective reports,




(iv)

setting a date by which an expert's report must be served on the other
parties, and




(v)

respecting the issues on which an expert may be called;




(l)

respecting admissions;




(m)

respecting offers to settle;




(n)

respecting the conduct of any application;




(o)

requiring the parties to attend one or more of a mediation, a
settlement conference or any other dispute resolution process, and
giving directions for the conduct of the mediation, settlement
conference or other dispute resolution process;




(p)

authorizing or directing the parties to try one or more issues in the
action independently of others;




(q)

fixing the length of trial;




(r)

respecting the place at which any step in the action is to be
conducted;




(s)

setting the action for trial on a particular date or on a particular
trial list;




(t)

striking out a counterclaim or directing that a counterclaim be tried
separately;




(u)

adjourning the case planning conference;




(v)

directing the parties to attend a further case planning conference at
a specified date and time;




(w)

any orders the judge or associate judge considers will further the
object of these Supreme Court Family Rules.


[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 7; am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3,
s. 5.]







Prohibited orders



(2)

A case planning conference judge or associate judge must not, at a
case planning conference,




(a)

hear any application supported by affidavit evidence, except under
subrule (6), or




(b)

make an order for final judgment, except by consent or under subrule
(6).


[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 7; am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3,
s. 5.]







Case plan order required



(3)

Without limiting subrules (1) and (2), the judge or associate judge
conducting a case planning conference must, at the conclusion of the
case planning conference, make a case plan order.


[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 7; am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3,
s. 5.]







Case plan order



(4)

A case plan order under subrule (3) must be in Form F19.4 and




(a)

must set out any order made under subrule (1), and




(b)

may but need not include any other matter referred to in Form F19.4.

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 7.]







When approval in writing by lawyer not required




(5)

Without limiting Rule 15-1 (4), if a case plan order under subrule (3)
is approved in writing by the case planning conference judge or
associate judge, that order need not be approved in writing by a
lawyer or by a party.


[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 7; am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3,
s. 5.]







Consequences of non-compliance



(6)

If a party fails to comply with this Part or an order made under this
rule or if anything is done or omitted improperly or unnecessarily by
or on behalf of a party in relation to anything under this Part, the
court may, on application, do one or both of the following:




(a)

make an order under Rule 21-5;




(b)

despite any other provision of these Supreme Court Family Rules to the
contrary and without limiting Rule 16-1 (13),




(i)

award costs of the application on a lump sum basis, and




(ii)

set the period within which those costs must be paid.

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 7.]







Application may be made at case planning conference




(7)

Without limiting Part 10, a party may apply for an order under subrule
(6) at a case planning conference.

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 7.]






Amendments to case plan orders



(8)

Without limiting the ability of a case planning conference judge or
associate judge to amend a case plan order at a case planning
conference under Rule 7.1-3 (1) (b), the parties may apply
to amend a case plan order by requesting a subsequent case planning
conference under Rule 7.1-1.


[en. B.C. Reg. 176/2023, Sch. 2, s. 7; am. B.C. Reg. 277/2023, Sch. 3,
s. 5.]




Part 8 — Amendment of Documents and Change of Parties



Rule 8-1 — Amendment of Pleadings






When pleading may be amended



(1)

Subject to Rules 8-2 (7) and (9) and 9-6 (5), a party may amend the
whole or any part of, including any Schedule to, a pleading filed by
the party, other than by adding or changing parties or withdrawing an
admission,




(a)

once without leave of the court, at any time before service of the
notice of trial, or




(b)

after a notice of trial is served, only with




(i)

leave of the court, or




(ii)

written consent of the parties.


[am. B.C. Regs. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 4; 321/2021, Sch. 2, s. 3.]







How amendments made



(2)

Unless the court otherwise orders, to amend a pleading under subrule
(1), a party must




(a)

amend the pleading in accordance with subrule (3),




(b)

indicate on the amended pleading the date on which the original
version of the pleading was filed, and




(c)

file the amended pleading.







Identifying amendments



(3)

Unless the court otherwise orders, an amendment to a pleading under
this rule must be dated, identified and underlined.







Service of amended pleadings



(4)

Unless the court otherwise orders, if a party amends a pleading under
this rule, the party must do both of the following:




(a)

within 7 days after filing the amended pleading, serve, by ordinary
service, a copy of the filed amended pleading on each party;




(b)

if the amended pleading is a notice of family claim or a counterclaim,
promptly after filing the amended pleading and before taking any
further step in the family law case, serve, by personal service, a
copy of the filed amended pleading on any person who




(i)

was served with a copy of the filed original version of the pleading,
and




(ii)

has not filed a response to family claim or response to counterclaim,
as the case may be, to the original version of the pleading.








Response of a party to amended pleading




(5)

If a pleading (in this subrule and in subrule (6) called the "primary
pleading") is amended under this rule and the amended pleading is
served on a party under subrule (4) (a), that party




(a)

may amend, under this rule, any pleading he or she had filed in
response to the original version of the primary pleading but only with
respect to any matter raised by the amendments to the primary
pleading, and




(b)

in that event, must, within 14 days after being served with the
amended pleading, serve a copy of the filed amended responding
pleading on all parties.








Failure to serve amended responding pleading




(6)

If a party on whom an amended pleading is served under subrule (4) (a)
does not serve an amended responding pleading as provided in subrule
(5), the pleading he or she filed in response to the original version
of the primary pleading is deemed to be the pleading he or she filed
in response to the amended pleading.







Responding to amended pleading



(7)

If a notice of family claim or a counterclaim is amended under this
rule and served under subrule (4) (b) on a person who is not yet a
party, the person must, within 30 days after being served with the
amended notice of family claim or counterclaim, file a response to
family claim or response to counterclaim and Rule 4-3 (2) or 4-4 (6),
as the case may be, applies.







Amendment at trial



(8)

Unless the court otherwise orders, if an amendment is granted during a
trial or hearing, an order need not be taken out and the amended
pleading need not be filed or served.




Rule 8-2 — Change of Parties


Change of Party Status or Interest






Party ceasing to exist



(1)

If a party dies or becomes bankrupt, or a corporate party is wound up
or otherwise ceases to exist, but the claim survives, the family law
case may continue in spite of the death or bankruptcy or the corporate
party having been wound up or ceasing to exist.







Effect of death



(2)

Whether or not the claim survives, a family law case may continue in
spite of either party dying between the verdict or finding on the
issues of fact and the entry of judgment, but judgment may be entered
despite the death.







Assignment or conveyance of interest



(3)

If, by assignment, conveyance or death, an estate, interest or title
devolves or is transferred, a family law case relating to that estate,
interest or title may be continued by or against the person on whom or
to whom that estate, interest or title has devolved or to whom that
estate, interest or title has been transferred.








Change or transmission of interest or liability




(4)

If, after the start of a family law case,




(a)

a change or transmission of interest or liability of a party takes
place or a person interested comes into existence, and




(b)

it becomes necessary or desirable that




(i)

a person not already a party should be named as a party, or




(ii)

a person already a party should be named as a party in another
capacity,


the court may order that the family law case be continued between the
continuing parties and the new party.








Prosecution of family law case if claimant or petitioner dies




(5)

If a claimant or petitioner has died and the family law case may be
continued, a respondent may apply to the court for an order that the
person entitled to proceed do proceed within the time that the court
orders and that, in default, the proceeding be dismissed for want of
prosecution.







Costs on dismissal



(6)

If a family law case is dismissed under subrule (5), an order for
payment of costs may be made and enforced against the assets of the
deceased's estate.



Change of Parties







Adding, removing or substituting parties by order




(7)

At any stage of a family law case, the court, on application by any
person, may, subject to subrule (9),




(a)

order that a person cease to be named as a party if it is not
appropriate or necessary for that person to be named as a party,




(b)

order that a person be named as an additional party or be named as a
party in substitution for another named party if




(i)

that person ought to have been named as a party, or




(ii)

that person's participation in the family law case is necessary to
ensure that all matters in the family law case may be adjudicated on,
and




(c)

order that a person be named as an additional party if there may
exist, between the person and any other person who is named as a party
to the family law case, a question or issue relating to or connected
with




(i)

any relief claimed in the family law case, or




(ii)

the subject matter of the family law case


that, in the opinion of the court, it would be just and convenient to
determine as between the person and the other person who is named as a
party.








Procedure if person added, removed or substituted as named party by
order




(8)

Unless the court otherwise orders, if an order is made under subrule
(7) adding, removing or substituting a person as a named party,




(a)

the notice of family claim must be amended in accordance with Rule 8-1
(2) and (3), a reference to the order must be endorsed on that amended
notice of family claim and Rule 8-1 (4) to (7) applies, and




(b)

if a person is named as an additional party or is named as a party in
substitution for another named party,




(i)

a copy of the entered order must be served on the person along with a
copy of the filed amended document served under Rule 8-1 (4),




(ii)

the person may apply to the court to change or set aside the order
within 21 days after the date on which the order is served on the
person under subparagraph (i) of this paragraph, and




(iii)

unless the court orders, in an application under subparagraph (ii) or
otherwise, that the person not be named as a party, these Supreme
Court Family Rules apply in relation to that newly named party as if
the amended notice of family claim were a new notice of family claim.

[am. B.C. Reg. 133/2012, s. 11.]






Consent required



(9)

A person must not be named as a claimant or petitioner without the
person's consent.







Effect of order



(10)

Unless the court otherwise orders, if a person is named as a party in
substitution for a former party, all things done in the family law
case before the person was named as a party have the same effect in
relation to that person as they had in relation to the former party,
but the person named as a party in substitution for a former party
must file a notice of address for service in Form F10.







Application without notice



(11)

Unless the court otherwise orders, an application under subrule (7)
may be made without notice to any person who is not a party.

[en. B.C. Reg. 105/2019, s. 1.]



Part 9 — Procedures for Obtaining Information and Documents



Rule 9-1 — Discovery and Inspection of Documents






List of documents



(1)

Unless all parties consent or the court otherwise orders, each party
to a family law case must




(a)

prepare a list of documents in Form F20 that lists




(i)

all documents that are or have been in the party's possession or
control and that could, if available, be used by any party at trial to
prove or disprove a material fact, and




(ii)

all other documents to which the party intends to refer at trial, and




(b)

serve the list of documents as follows:




(i)

a person who files a notice of family claim must serve his or her list
of documents on a party within 35 days after being served with that
party's response to family claim or response to counterclaim;




(ii)

a person who files a response to family claim must serve his or her
list of documents on a party within 35 days after serving his or her
response to family claim on that party;




(iii)

a person who files a response to counterclaim must serve his or her
list of documents on a party within 35 days after serving his or her
response to counterclaim on that party unless that list of documents
has already been served on that party.







Documents to be enumerated



(2)

Subject to subrules (3) and (4), each party's list of documents must
include a brief description of each listed document.







Claim for privilege



(3)

If it is claimed that a document is privileged from production, the
claim must be made in the list of documents with a statement of the
grounds of the privilege.








Nature of privileged documents to be described




(4)

The nature of any document for which privilege from production is
claimed must be described in a manner that, without revealing
information that is privileged, will enable other parties to assess
the validity of the claim of privilege.







Affidavit verifying list of documents



(5)

The court may order a party to serve an affidavit verifying a list of
documents.







Amending the list of documents



(6)

If, after a list of documents has been served under this rule,




(a)

it comes to the attention of the party serving it that the list is
inaccurate or incomplete, or




(b)

there comes into the party's possession or control a document that
could be used by any party at trial to prove or disprove a material
fact or any other document to which the party intends to refer at
trial,


the party must promptly amend the list of documents and serve the
amended list of documents on the other parties.

[am. B.C. Reg. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 5 (a).]







Party may demand documents required under this rule




(7)

If a party who has received a list of documents believes that the list
omits documents or a class of documents that should have been
disclosed under subrule (1) or (6), the party may, by written demand,
require the party who prepared the list to




(a)

amend the list of documents,




(b)

serve on the demanding party the amended list of documents, and




(c)

make the originals of the newly listed documents available for
inspection and copying in accordance with subrules (12) and (13).

[am. B.C. Reg. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 5 (b) and (c).]






Party may demand additional documents



(8)

If a party who has received a list of documents believes that the list
should include documents or classes of documents that




(a)

are within the listing party's possession, power or control,




(b)

relate to any or all matters in question in the family law case, and




(c)

are additional to the documents or classes of documents required under
subrule (1) or (6),


the party, by written demand that identifies the additional documents
or classes of documents with reasonable specificity and that indicates
the reason why such additional documents or classes of documents
should be disclosed, may require the party who prepared the list to




(d)

amend the list of documents,




(e)

serve on the demanding party the amended list of documents, and




(f)

make the originals of the newly listed documents available for
inspection and copying in accordance with subrules (12) and (13).

[en. B.C. Reg. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 5 (d).]






Response to demand for documents



(9)

A party who receives a demand under subrule (7) or (8) must, within 35
days after receipt, do one of the following:




(a)

comply with the demand in relation to all of the demanded documents;




(b)

comply with the demand in relation to those of the demanded documents
that the party is prepared to list, and indicate, in relation to the
balance of the demanded documents,




(i)

why a supplementary list of documents that includes those documents is
not being prepared and served, and




(ii)

why those documents are not being made available;




(c)

indicate, in relation to the demanded documents,




(i)

why a supplementary list of documents that includes those documents is
not being prepared and served, and




(ii)

why those documents are not being made available.








Application for production of documents




(10)

If a party who receives a demand under subrule (7) or (8) does not,
within 35 days after receipt, comply with the demand in relation to
all of the demanded documents, the demanding party may apply for an
order requiring the listing party to comply with the demand.







Court may alter requirements



(11)

On an application under subrule (10) or otherwise, the court may




(a)

order that a party be excused from compliance with subrule (1), (3),
(12) or (13) or with a demand under subrule (7) or (8), either
generally or in respect of one or more documents or classes of
documents, or




(b)

order a party to




(i)

amend the list of documents to list additional documents that are or
have been in the party's possession, power or control relating to any
or all matters in question in the family law case,




(ii)

serve the amended list of documents on all parties, and




(iii)

make the originals of the newly listed documents available for
inspection and copying in accordance with subrules (12) and (13).


[am. B.C. Reg. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 5 (b), (c) and (e).]







Inspection of documents



(12)

A party who has served a list of documents on any other party must
allow the other party to inspect and copy, during normal business
hours and at the location specified in the list of documents, the
listed documents except those documents that the listing party objects
to producing.

[am. B.C. Reg. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 5 (f).]






Copies of documents



(13)

If a party is entitled to inspect listed documents under subrule (12),
the listing party must, on the request of the party entitled to
inspection and on receiving payment in advance of the cost of
reproduction and service, serve on the requesting party copies of the
documents, if reproducible, for which a request has been made.

[am. B.C. Reg. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 5 (g).]






Order to produce document



(14)

The court may order the production of a document for inspection and
copying by any party or by the court at a time and place and in the
manner it considers appropriate.







Documents not in possession of party



(15)

If a document is in the possession or control of a person who is not a
party, the court, on an application under Part 10 brought on notice to
the person and the parties, may make an order for one or both of the
following:




(a)

production, inspection and copying of the document;




(b)

preparation of a certified copy that may be used instead of the
original.







Order by consent



(16)

An order under subrule (15) may be made by consent if that order is
endorsed with an acknowledgment by the person in possession or control
of the document that the person has no objection to the terms of the
proposed order.







Inspection of document by court



(17)

If, on an application for production of a document, production is
objected to on the grounds of privilege, the court may inspect the
document for the purpose of deciding the validity of the objection.







Party may not use document



(18)

Unless the court otherwise orders, if a party fails to make discovery
of or produce for inspection or copying a document as required by this
rule, the party may not put the document in evidence in the family law
case or use it for the purpose of examination or cross-examination.








Determination of issue before discovery




(19)

If the party from whom discovery, inspection or copying of a document
is sought objects to that discovery, inspection or copying, the court
may, if satisfied that for any reason it is desirable that an issue or
question in dispute should be determined before deciding on the right
to discovery, inspection or copying, order that the issue or question
be determined first and reserve the question of discovery, inspection
or copying.




Rule 9-2 — Examinations for Discovery






Examination of parties



(1)

Subject to subrule (2), each party to a family law case must




(a)

make himself or herself available, or




(b)

if any of subrules (5) to (9) apply, make a person referred to in that
subrule available,


for examinations for discovery by the parties to the family law case
who are adverse in interest to the party subject to examination.







Limitations



(2)

Unless the court otherwise orders, the examinations for discovery,
including all examinations under subrules (16), (18) and (20),
conducted under this rule of a party, including any such examinations
conducted of a person referred to in subrule (1) (b) who is examined
in relation to that party, by any other party who is adverse in
interest must not, in total, exceed in duration




(a)

5 hours, or




(b)

any greater period to which the person to be examined consents.







Considerations of the court



(3)

In an application under subrule (2) to extend the examination for
discovery period, the court must consider the following:




(a)

the conduct of a person who has been or is to be examined, including




(i)

the person's unresponsiveness in any examination for discovery held in
the family law case,




(ii)

the person's failure to provide complete answers to questions, or




(iii)

the person's provision of answers that are evasive, irrelevant,
unresponsive or unduly lengthy;




(b)

any denial or refusal to admit, by a person who has been or is to be
examined, anything that should have been admitted;




(c)

the conduct of the examining party;




(d)

whether or not it is reasonably practicable to complete the
examinations for discovery within the period provided under subrule
(2);




(e)

the number of parties and examinations for discovery and the proximity
of the various interests of those parties.







Oral examination on oath



(4)

An examination for discovery is an oral examination on oath.








Examination of party that is not an individual




(5)

Unless the court otherwise orders, if a party to be examined for
discovery is not an individual,




(a)

the examining party may examine one representative of the party to be
examined,




(b)

the party to be examined must nominate as its representative an
individual, who is knowledgeable concerning the matters in question in
the family law case, to be examined on behalf of that party, and




(c)

the examining party may examine




(i)

the representative nominated under paragraph (b), or




(ii)

any other person the examining party considers appropriate and who is
or has been a director, officer, employee, agent or external auditor
of the party to be examined.








Examination of person for whose benefit family law case brought




(6)

Subject to subrule (8), a person for whose immediate benefit a family
law case is brought or defended may be examined for discovery.







Examination of guardian and infants



(7)

Unless the court otherwise orders, if a party to be examined for
discovery is an infant, the infant, his or her guardian and his or her
litigation guardian may be examined for discovery.

[am. B.C. Reg. 119/2010, Sch. B, s. 6.]







Examination of mentally incompetent person




(8)

If a party to be examined for discovery is a mentally incompetent
person, his or her litigation guardian and his or her committee may be
examined for discovery, but the mentally incompetent person must not
be examined without leave of the court.







Examination of bankrupt



(9)

If a party to be examined for discovery is a trustee in bankruptcy,
the bankrupt may be examined for discovery.







Place



(10)

Unless the court otherwise orders or the parties to the examination
for discovery otherwise agree, an examination for discovery must take
place at a location within 30 kilometres of the registry that is
nearest to the place where the person to be examined resides.







Examination before reporter



(11)

An examination for discovery must be conducted before an official
reporter who is empowered to administer the oath.







Service of notice



(12)

Before conducting an examination for discovery under this rule, the
party wishing to conduct that examination for discovery must do the
following:




(a)

if the person to be examined is a party to, and has a lawyer in, the
family law case, ensure that, at least 7 days before the examination
for discovery,




(i)

an appointment in Form F21 is served on that lawyer, and




(ii)

witness fees in the amount required under Schedule 3 of Appendix C are
tendered to that lawyer;




(b)

in any other case, ensure that, at least 7 days before the examination
for discovery,




(i)

an appointment in Form F21 is served on the person to be examined, and




(ii)

witness fees in the amount required under Schedule 3 of Appendix C are
tendered to the person to be examined;




(c)

at least 7 days before the examination for discovery, serve a copy of
the appointment on all parties.

[am. B.C. Reg. 112/2012, Sch. B, s. 1.]






Person must attend examination



(13)

A person to be examined for discovery must attend and submit to
examination for discovery if the party wishing to conduct that
examination for discovery has complied with subrule (12) (a) or (b),
as the case may be.







Fees must not be attached



(14)

If a lawyer receives witness fees under subrule (12) (a), those fees
must not be attached.







Production of documents



(15)

Unless the court otherwise orders, if the person to be examined for
discovery is a person referred to in subrule (6), (7), (8) or (9), the
person must produce for inspection on the examination for discovery
all documents in his or her possession or control, not privileged,
relating to the matters in question in the family law case.







Examination and re-examination



(16)

The examination for discovery of a person is in the nature of a
cross-examination, and the person examined for discovery may be
re-examined on his or her own behalf or on behalf of a party not
adverse in interest to him or her in relation to any matter respecting
which he or she has been examined.







Scope of examination



(17)

Unless the court otherwise orders, a person being examined for
discovery




(a)

must answer any question within his or her knowledge or means of
knowledge regarding any matter, not privileged, relating to a matter
in question in the family law case, and




(b)

is compellable to give the names and addresses of all persons who
reasonably might be expected to have knowledge relating to any matter
in question in the family law case.







Person must inform self



(18)

In order to comply with subrule (17), a person being examined for
discovery may be required to inform himself or herself and the
examination may be adjourned for that purpose.







Response may be provided by letter



(19)

If a person is required to inform himself or herself under subrule
(18) in order to respond to one or more questions posed on the
examination for discovery, the examining party may request the person
to provide the responses by letter.







If letter provided



(20)

If the examining party receives a letter under subrule (19),




(a)

the questions set out in the letter and the answers given in response
to those questions are deemed for all purposes to be questions asked
and answers given under oath in the examination for discovery, and




(b)

the examining party may, subject to subrule (2), continue the
examination for discovery.







Objections



(21)

If a person under examination objects to answering a question put to
him or her, the question and the objection must be taken down by the
official reporter and the court may




(a)

decide the validity of the objection, and




(b)

order the person to submit to further examination and set a maximum
duration for that further examination.







How recorded



(22)

An examination for discovery is to be taken down in the form of
question and answer, and copies of the transcript may be obtained on
payment of the proper fee by




(a)

any party,




(b)

the person examined, or




(c)

any other person as the court for special reason may permit.








Application to persons outside British Columbia




(23)

So far as is practicable, this rule applies to a person residing
outside British Columbia, and the court, on application on notice to
the person, may order the examination for discovery of the person at a
place and in the manner the court considers appropriate.







Service of order and notice



(24)

Unless the court otherwise orders, if an order is made under subrule
(23) for the examination for discovery of a person,




(a)

the order and the notice of appointment may be served on, and




(b)

the witness fees referred to in subrule (12) may be paid to

the lawyer for the person.



Rule 9-3 — Discovery by Interrogatories







Party may serve interrogatories by consent or with leave




(1)

A party to a family law case may serve interrogatories in Form F22 on
any other party, or on a director, officer, partner, agent, employee
or external auditor of a party, if




(a)

the party to be examined consents, or




(b)

the court grants leave.







If a party is a body of persons



(2)

If a party to a family law case is a body of persons, corporate or
unincorporate, that is empowered to sue or to be sued in its own name
or in the name of an officer or other person, another party may, with
leave of the court granted at an application, serve interrogatories on
the officer or member of the body specified in the order.







Powers of court



(3)

In an order granting leave under subrule (1) (b) or (2), the court may
set terms and conditions on the interrogatories, including terms and
conditions respecting




(a)

the number or length of the interrogatories,




(b)

the matters the interrogatories are to cover,




(c)

the timing of any response to the interrogatories, and




(d)

the notification, if any, to be given to the other parties respecting
the interrogatories.







Timing of answer to interrogatories



(4)

A person to whom interrogatories are directed must, within 21 days or
such other period as the court may order under subrule (3), serve an
answer on affidavit to the interrogatories.








If more than one person to answer interrogatories




(5)

If interrogatories are required to be answered by more than one
officer, director, partner, agent or employee of a party, the
interrogatories must state which of the interrogatories each person is
required to answer.







Objection to answer interrogatory



(6)

If a person objects to answering an interrogatory on the grounds of
privilege or on the grounds that it does not relate to a matter in
question in the family law case, the person may make the objection in
an affidavit in answer.







Insufficient answer to interrogatory



(7)

If a person to whom interrogatories have been directed answers any of
them insufficiently, the court may require the person to make a
further answer either by affidavit or on oral examination.








Application to strike out interrogatory




(8)

If a party objects to an interrogatory on the grounds that it will not
further the object of these Supreme Court Family Rules,




(a)

the party may apply to the court to strike out the interrogatory, and




(b)

the court must take into account any offer by the party to make
admissions, to produce documents or to give oral discovery.







Service of interrogatories on lawyer



(9)

A party may, instead of serving interrogatories under subrule (1) or
(2), serve the interrogatories on the lawyer of the person to whom the
interrogatories are directed.







Lawyer must inform



(10)

If a lawyer receives interrogatories under subrule (9), the lawyer
must promptly inform the person to whom the interrogatories are
directed.







Continuing obligation to answer



(11)

If a person who has given an answer to an interrogatory later learns
that the answer is inaccurate or incomplete, the person must promptly
serve on the party who served the interrogatory an affidavit deposing
to an accurate or complete answer.




Rule 9-4 — Pre-Trial Examination of Witness






Order for examination



(1)

If a person who is not a party to a family law case may have material
evidence relating to a matter in question in the family law case, the
court may




(a)

order that the person be examined on oath on the matters in question
in the family law case, and




(b)

either before or after the examination, order that the examining party
pay reasonable lawyer's costs of the person relating to the
application and the examination.







Expert



(2)

An expert retained or specially employed by another party in
anticipation of litigation or preparation for trial may not be
examined under this rule unless the party seeking the examination is
unable to obtain facts and opinions on the same subject by other
means.







Affidavit in support of application



(3)

An application for an order under subrule (1) must be supported by
affidavit setting out




(a)

the matter in question in the family law case to which the applicant
believes that the evidence of the proposed witness may be material,




(b)

if the proposed witness is an expert retained or specially employed by
another party in anticipation of litigation or preparation for trial,
that the applicant is unable to obtain facts and opinions on the same
subject by other means, and




(c)

that the proposed witness




(i)

has refused or neglected on request by the applicant to give a
responsive statement, either orally or in writing, relating to the
witness' knowledge of the matters in question, or




(ii)

has given conflicting statements.







Application procedure



(4)

An applicant for an order under subrule (1) must comply with Part 10
and, without limiting this, the applicant must serve the application
materials on the proposed witness and Part 10 applies to the witness
as if he or she were a party.







Subpoena



(5)

If the court makes an order under subrule (1) entitling a party to
examine a person under this rule, the party may, by serving on the
person to be examined a subpoena in Form F23, require the person to
bring to the examination




(a)

any document in the person's possession or control relating to the
matters in question in the family law case, and




(b)

any physical object in the person's possession or control that the
party contemplates introducing at the trial as an exhibit.








Identification of documents and objects




(6)

A subpoena referred to in subrule (5)




(a)

need not identify any document referred to in subrule (5) (a), and




(b)

must identify any object referred to in subrule (5) (b).







Notice of examination



(7)

The examining party must give notice of an examination under this rule
by serving copies of the subpoena referred to in subrule (5) on all
parties at least 7 days before the date appointed for the examination.







Mode of examination



(8)

The proposed witness must be cross-examined by the party who obtained
the order, then may be cross-examined by any other party, and then may
be further cross-examined by the party who obtained the order.







Time for examination



(9)

Unless the court otherwise orders, examinations conducted of a person
under this rule by all parties must not, in total, exceed 3 hours in
duration.








Application of examination for discovery rules




(10)

Rule 9-2 (11), (15), (17), (18) and (21) to (24) applies to an
examination under this rule.




Rule 9-5 — Physical Examination and Inspection






Order for medical examination



(1)

If the physical or mental condition of a person is in issue in a
family law case, the court may order that the person submit to
examination by a medical practitioner or other qualified person, and
if the court makes an order under this subrule, the court may also
make




(a)

an order respecting any expenses connected with the examination, and




(b)

an order that the result of the examination be put in writing and that
copies be made available to interested parties.







Subsequent examinations



(2)

The court may order a further examination under this rule.







Questions by examiner



(3)

A person who is making an examination under this rule may ask any
relevant question concerning the medical condition or history of the
person being examined.








Order for inspection and preservation of property




(4)

If the court considers it necessary or expedient for the purpose of
obtaining full information or evidence, it may




(a)

order the production, inspection and preservation of any property, and




(b)

authorize




(i)

samples to be taken or observations to be made of the property, or




(ii)

experiments to be conducted on or with the property.







Entry on land or building



(5)

For the purpose of enabling an order under this rule to be carried
out, the court may authorize a person to enter on any land or
building.








Application to persons outside British Columbia




(6)

Rule 9-2 (23) and (24) applies to examinations and inspections ordered
under this rule.




Rule 9-6 — Admissions






Notice to admit



(1)

In a family law case in which a response to family claim has been
filed, a party may, by service of a notice to admit in Form F24,
request any party to admit, for the purposes of the family law case
only, the truth of a fact or the authenticity of a document specified
in the notice.







Effect of notice to admit



(2)

Unless the court otherwise orders, the truth of a fact or the
authenticity of a document specified in a notice to admit is deemed to
be admitted, for the purposes of the family law case only, unless,
within 14 days after service of the notice to admit, the party
receiving the notice to admit serves on the party serving the notice
to admit a written statement that




(a)

specifically denies the truth of the fact or the authenticity of the
document,




(b)

sets out in detail the reasons why the party cannot make the
admission, or




(c)

states that the refusal to admit the truth of the fact or the
authenticity of the document is made on the grounds of privilege or
irrelevancy or that the request is otherwise improper, and sets out in
detail the reasons for the refusal.







Copy of document to be attached



(3)

Unless the court otherwise orders or the demanding party and the
responding party consent, a copy of a document specified in a notice
to admit must be attached to the notice to admit when it is served.







Unreasonable refusal to admit



(4)

If a responding party unreasonably denies or refuses to admit the
truth of a fact or the authenticity of a document specified in a
notice to admit, the court may order the party to pay the costs of
proving the truth of the fact or the authenticity of the document and
may award as a penalty additional costs, or deprive a party of costs,
as the court considers appropriate.







Withdrawal of admission



(5)

A party is not entitled to withdraw




(a)

an admission made in response to a notice to admit,




(b)

a deemed admission under subrule (2), or




(c)

an admission made in a pleading, petition or response to petition


except by consent or with leave of the court.







Application for order on admissions



(6)

An application for judgment or any other application may be made to
the court using as evidence




(a)

admissions of the truth of a fact or the authenticity of a document
made




(i)

in an affidavit or pleading filed by a party,




(ii)

in an examination for discovery of a party or a person examined for
discovery on behalf of a party, or




(iii)

in response to a notice to admit, or




(b)

admissions of the truth of a fact or the authenticity of a document
deemed to be made under subrule (2)


and the court, without waiting for the determination of any other
question between the parties, may make any order it considers will
further the object of these Supreme Court Family Rules.




Rule 9-7 — Depositions






Examination of person



(1)

By consent of the parties or by order of the court, a person may be
examined on oath before or during trial in order that the record of
the examination may be available to be introduced as evidence at the
trial.







Examination of person



(2)

An examination under subrule (1) may be conducted before an official
reporter or any other person as the court may direct.







Grounds for order



(3)

In determining whether to exercise its discretion to order an
examination under subrule (1), the court must take into account




(a)

the convenience of the person sought to be examined,




(b)

the possibility that the person may be unavailable to testify at the
trial by reason of death, infirmity, sickness or absence,




(c)

the possibility that the person will be beyond the jurisdiction of the
court at the time of the trial,




(d)

the possibility and desirability of having the person testify at trial
by video conferencing or other electronic means, and




(e)

the expense of bringing the person to the trial.







Time limits



(4)

In an order under subrule (1), the court may impose limits on the
duration of the direct examination or cross-examination of a person
under this rule.







Subpoena



(5)

If the court makes an order under subrule (1) entitling a party to
examine a person under this rule, the party may, by serving on the
person to be examined a subpoena in Form F23, require the person to
bring to the examination,




(a)

if the person to be examined is not a party or a representative of a
party, any document in the person's possession or control relating to
the matters in question in the family law case, and




(b)

any physical object in the person's possession or control that the
examining party contemplates introducing at the trial as an exhibit.








Identification of documents and objects




(6)

A subpoena referred to in subrule (5)




(a)

need not identify any document referred to in subrule (5) (a), and




(b)

must identify any object referred to in subrule (5) (b).







Place of examination



(7)

Unless the court otherwise orders or the parties to the examination
consent, an examination under this rule must take place at a location
within 30 kilometres of the registry that is nearest to the place
where the person to be examined resides.








Application of rule outside British Columbia




(8)

So far as is practicable, this rule applies to the examination of a
person residing outside British Columbia, and the court may order the
examination of a person in the place and the manner the court
considers appropriate.







If person willing to testify



(9)

If the person whose examination is ordered under subrule (8) is
willing to testify, the order under subrule (8) must be in Form F25
and the instructions to the examiner appointed in the order must be in
Form F26.







If person not willing to testify



(10)

If the person whose examination is ordered under subrule (8) is
unwilling to testify, or if for any other reason the assistance of a
foreign court is necessary, the order under subrule (8) must be in
Form F27 and the letter of request referred to in the order must be in
Form F28.







Letter of request



(11)

If an order referred to in subrule (10) is made, the letter of request
must be sent by the party obtaining the order to the Under Secretary
of State for External Affairs of Canada (or, if the evidence is to be
taken in Canada, to the Deputy Attorney General for the Province of
British Columbia), and must have attached to it




(a)

any interrogatories to be put to the witness,




(b)

a list of the names, addresses and telephone numbers of the lawyers or
agents of the parties, both in British Columbia and in the other
jurisdiction, and




(c)

a copy of the letter of request and any interrogatories




(i)

translated into the appropriate official language of the jurisdiction
where the examination is to take place, and




(ii)

bearing the certificate of the translator that it is a true
translation and giving the translator's full name and address.







Filing of undertaking



(12)

The lawyer for the party obtaining the order referred to in subrule
(10) must file with the Under Secretary of State for External Affairs
of Canada (or the Deputy Attorney General for the Province of British
Columbia, as the case may be) the lawyer's undertaking to be
personally responsible for all the charges and expenses incurred by
the Under Secretary (or the Deputy Attorney General, as the case may
be) in respect of the letter of request and to pay those charges and
expenses on receiving notification of the amount.







Notice of examination



(13)

The examining party must give notice of an examination under this rule
by serving copies of the subpoena referred to in subrule (5) on all
parties at least 7 days before the date appointed for the examination.







Mode of examination



(14)

The examining party must conduct a direct examination of the witness
and the witness is subject to cross-examination and re-examination.







Objection to question



(15)

If an objection is made to a question put to a witness in an
examination under this rule,




(a)

the question and the objection must be taken down by the official
reporter,




(b)

the validity of the objection may, on application, be decided by the
court, and




(c)

the court may, on an application referred to in paragraph (b), order
the witness to submit to further examination.







Recording of deposition evidence



(16)

Unless otherwise ordered, an examination under this rule must be
recorded by the person authorized under subrule (2) to conduct the
examination




(a)

in the form of questions and answers, or




(b)

on a video recording.







Preserving testimony



(17)

If a person alleges that




(a)

circumstances exist that entitle the person to receive an estate or
interest in property on the happening of a future event, and




(b)

the right or claim to that estate or interest cannot be brought to
trial or hearing by the person before the happening of the event,


the person may apply by petition or by requisition in Form F29 for an
order to preserve, by examination under this rule, any testimony that
may be material for establishing the right or claim.





Contents

|

Parts 1 to 9 |


Parts 10 to 14

|



Parts 15 to 23

|



Appendix A

|



Appendix B

|



Appendix C





