





View Complete Regulation






B.C. Reg. 447/83

O.C. 1897/83


Deposited December 1, 1983

effective January 1, 1984






This consolidation is current to January 30, 2024.

See the

Cumulative B.C. Regulations Bulletin 2023

and


Cumulative B.C. Regulations Bulletin 2024


for amendments effective after January 30, 2024.





Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Insurance (Vehicle) Act


Insurance (Vehicle) Regulation


[Last amended September 1, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 147/2022]



Part 7 — Accident Benefits





Interpretation




78


In this Part:



"employed person"

means a person




(a)

who, on the date of an accident for which a claim is made, is employed
or actively engaged in an occupation for wages or profit, or




(b)

who




(i)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 257/86, s. 21.]




(ii)

for any 6 months during the period of 12 months immediately preceding
the date of an accident for which a claim is made is employed or
actively engaged in an occupation for wages or profit;


"homemaker"
means the member of a household who, without payment, does the
majority of the housekeeping for the household;


"insured"
means




(a)

a person named as an owner in an owner's certificate,




(b)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 257/86, s. 21.]




(c)

a member of the household of a person named in an owner's certificate,




(c.1)

an insured as defined in section 42 who is not in default of premium
payable under section 45,




(c.2)

a member of the household of an insured described in paragraph (c.1),




(d)

an occupant of a vehicle that




(i)

is licensed in the Province and is not exempted under section 1.01 or
1.02 of the Act, or




(ii)

is not required to be licensed in the Province, but is operated by a
person named in a driver's certificate,




(e)

a cyclist or pedestrian who collides with a vehicle described in an
owner's certificate, or




(f)

a resident of the Province who is entitled to bring an action for
injury or death under section 20 or 24 of the Act,


and includes the personal representative of a deceased insured;


"parent"
means the person entitled to claim a child as a dependant under the

Income Tax Act

of the Province;



"rehabilitation team"

means a team of individuals, including representation from the
rehabilitation staff of the corporation, established




(a)

to determine the appropriate group residence for an insured,




(b)

to determine the care needs of an insured under section 88 (2) (c),
and




(c)

to evaluate any aspect of the funding, development of treatment, or
rehabilitation plan for an insured;



"supported child"

means any of the following:




(a)

a person under 19 years of age for whose support an insured is legally
liable and who is dependent on the insured for financial support;




(b)

a person 19 years of age or older who resides with an insured and
receives most of the person's financial support from the insured
because of a mental or physical disability;




(c)

a child of an insured who is born after the death of the insured and
survives for at least 60 days after birth;



"supported parent"

means a surviving parent, including a surviving spouse of a parent, of
an insured who, at the date of an accident for which a claim is made,
resides with the insured and receives most of the supported parent's
financial support from the insured;



"supported person"

means




(a)

a supported child, or




(b)

a supported parent.


[am. B.C. Regs. 335/84, s. 18; 257/86, s. 21; 408/87, s. 21; 383/89,
s. 13; 379/93, s. 5; 491/95, s. 12; 246/98, s. 3; 166/2006, Sch. s.
62; 420/2008, App. s. 7; 421/2008, App. s. 8; 423/2008, App. s. 8;
60/2019, App. 1, s. 1; 234/2018, App. 2, s. 9; 62/2021, App. 4, s.
21.]






Application of Part




78.01


This Part applies to accidents that occur before May 1, 2021.

[en. B.C. Reg. 62/2021, App. 4, s. 22.]





Coverage and benefits




79

(1)


Subject to subsection (2) and sections 80 to 88, 90, 92, 100, 101 and
104, the corporation shall pay benefits to an insured in respect of
death or injury caused by an accident that occurs in Canada or the
United States of America or on a vessel travelling between Canada and
the United States of America.




(2)

Where an accident occurs in the United States or on a vessel
travelling between Canada and the United States, no benefits are
payable under this Part to




(a)

a cyclist, or




(b)

a pedestrian


unless the cyclist or pedestrian is named in an owner's certificate or
a driver's certificate or is a member of the household of a person
named in an owner's certificate or a driver's certificate.


[am. B.C. Regs. 335/84, s. 19; 379/85, s. 31; 257/86, s. 22; 328/97,
s. 6; 234/2018, App. 2, s. 10.]






Disability benefits for employed persons




80

(1)


Where, within 20 days after an accident for which benefits are
provided under this Part, an injury sustained in the accident totally
disables an insured who is an employed person from engaging in
employment or an occupation for which the insured is reasonably suited
by education, training or experience, the corporation shall, subject
to section 85, pay to the insured for the duration of the total
disability or 104 weeks, whichever is shorter, the lesser of the
amounts determined under paragraphs (a) and (b):




(a)

the applicable amount of disability benefits set out in section 2
of Schedule 3;




(b)

in respect of an accident that occurred




(i)

before January 1, 1987, an amount per week calculated by taking 75% of
the insured's gross earnings for the 12 month period immediately
preceding the accident, dividing by 52 and multiplying that amount by
the weekly benefit multiplier in Column B of Table 1 of
Schedule 3 opposite the year of the accident in Column A,




(ii)

on or after January 1, 1987 but before January 1, 1991, an amount per
week calculated by taking 75% of the insured's gross earnings for the
12 month period immediately preceding the accident, dividing by the
number of weeks and fractions of weeks actually worked during that
period and multiplying that amount by the weekly benefit multiplier in
Column B of Table 1 of Schedule 3 opposite the year of the
accident in Column A, or




(iii)

on or after January 1, 1991 an amount per week calculated by taking
75% of the insured's gross earnings for the 12 month period
immediately preceding the accident and dividing by the number of weeks
and fractions of weeks actually worked during that period.




(2)

Where disability benefits are payable to an insured for a period of
less than one week, the amount payable for each day shall be
determined by dividing the amount payable weekly by the number of days
the insured regularly works in a week.

[en. B.C. Reg. 438/92, s. 12.]





Deduction of other benefits




81

(1)


In this section:



"other disability compensation"

means compensation similar to benefits




(a)

paid or payable under vehicle insurance, wherever issued and in
effect,




(b)

paid or payable under a policy of accident, sickness or life insurance
purchased by a group or individual, or




(c)

paid by an employer;



"weekly net lost earnings"

means the amount by which the disability benefits payable to an
insured as calculated under section 80 (1) (b) exceed the weekly gross
total of payments to the insured of all other disability compensation.




(2)

Where an employed person is injured in an accident for which
disability benefits are payable under section 80 and some or all of
the insured's lost earnings arising from the accident are payable as
other disability compensation, the corporation shall not pay any
disability benefits to the insured under that section unless the
weekly gross total of other disability compensation payable to the
insured is less than 75% of the weekly gross lost earnings of the
insured, in which case the corporation shall pay to the insured the
lesser of




(a)

the amount of disability benefits payable under section 80, or




(b)

the weekly net lost earnings of the insured.


[am. B.C. Regs. 448/90, s. 13; 491/95, s. 13; 166/2006, Sch. s. 63.]






Employment during total disability




81.1

(1)


If an insured who is entitled to disability benefits under
section 80 becomes capable of engaging in employment or an
occupation but, because of injuries suffered in the accident is
incapable of earning an amount that exceeds 125% of the disability
benefits determined under sections 80 and 81, the insured
may keep earnings from that employment or occupation, without
deduction from disability benefits, in an amount that does not exceed
25% of those disability benefits, but any amounts earned in excess of
25% of the disability benefits will be deducted from the disability
benefits payable by the corporation.




(2)

No disability benefit is payable under section 80 if the application
of subsection (1) would result in a payment of less than $5 a
week.

[en. B.C. Reg. 491/95, s. 14.]





Payments under
Workers Compensation Act




82

(1)


If an insured who is a worker to whom the

Workers Compensation Act

or a similar law of another jurisdiction applies is injured or killed
in the course of the insured's employment, the corporation is not
liable to pay benefits under this Part for the injury or death, except
to the extent that the amount of any benefit payable under this Part
exceeds the amount that would be payable to the insured, the insured's
spouse or the insured's personal representative under the

Workers Compensation Act

or similar law of another jurisdiction for the same injury or death.




(2)

Subsection (1) applies even if the insured, the insured's spouse or
the insured's personal representative has elected not to claim or has
forfeited the insured's claim under the

Workers Compensation Act

or other similar law for the injury or death.

[en. B.C. Reg. 117/2021, App. 6, s. 13.]





Unemployment benefits




83

(1)


If an insured who is also an insured person under the

Employment Insurance Act

(Canada) is injured, the corporation is not liable to pay benefits
under this Part for the injury, except to the extent that the amount
of any benefit payable under this Part exceeds the amount that would
be payable to the insured, the insured's spouse or the insured's
personal representative under the

Employment Insurance Act

(Canada) for the same injury.




(2)

Subsection (1) applies even if the insured, the insured's spouse or
the insured's personal representative has elected not to claim or has
forfeited the insured's claim under the

Employment Insurance Act

(Canada) for the injury.

[en. B.C. Reg. 117/2021, App. 6, s. 13.]





Disability benefits for homemakers




84

(1)


Subject to section 85 and subsection (2) of this section, where,
within 20 days after an accident for which benefits are provided under
this Part, an injury sustained in the accident substantially and
continuously disables an insured who is a homemaker from regularly
performing most of the insured's household tasks, the corporation
shall compensate the insured for the period of the disability or 104
consecutive weeks, whichever is shorter, for reasonable expenses
incurred by the insured to hire a person to perform the household
tasks on the insured's behalf, subject to a maximum amount per week as
set out in section 2 of Schedule 3.




(2)

No compensation is payable under this section in respect of household
tasks performed by a member of the insured's family.


[en. B.C. Reg. 449/88, s. 13; am. B.C. Reg. 438/92, s. 13.]






Waiting period




85

(1)


No disability benefits are payable under section 80 or 84 unless the
insured is disabled for a period of more than 7 days.




(2)

If the insured is disabled for more than 7 days, no disability benefit
is payable by the corporation for the first 7 days after the
disability commenced.

[am. B.C. Reg. 438/92, s. 14.]





Disability beyond 104 weeks




86

(1)


If an injury for which disability benefits are being paid to an
insured under section 80 or 84 continues, at the end of the 104
week period, to disable the insured as described in the applicable
section, the corporation must, subject to subsections (1.1)
and (2) and sections 87 to 90, continue to pay the
applicable amount of disability benefits to an insured described in
section 80 or 84




(a)

for the duration of the disability, or




(b)

until the insured reaches 65 years of age,

whichever is the shorter period.



(1.1)

Subsection (1) does not apply to an insured who, at the end of the 104
week period, has reached 65 years of age.




(2)

If benefits are payable under the

Canada Pension Plan

or the
Quebec Pension Plan
to an insured during the period and in respect of a disability for
which benefits are payable to the insured under this section, the
amount payable each month under this section must be reduced by an
amount not exceeding the amount of the first regular monthly benefit
cheque received by the insured under the

Canada Pension Plan

or the
Quebec Pension Plan
after the insured becomes eligible for benefits under this section.




(2.1)

The amount deducted under subsection (2) must continue to be deducted
even if the amount payable to the insured under the

Canada Pension Plan

or the
Quebec Pension Plan
is increased during the time the insured remains eligible for benefits
under this section.




(2.2)

If the amount payable to an insured under the

Canada Pension Plan

or the
Quebec Pension Plan
decreases, the benefits payable under this section must be increased
accordingly.




(3)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 324/91, s. 21.]




(4)

If an insured is receiving other disability payments as defined in
section 81 and under the terms of the contract for payment of those
other disability payments the payments are reduced by any amount
received under the

Canada Pension Plan

or the
Quebec Pension Plan
, the reduction of disability payments under subsection (2) must be
prorated.




(5)

If an insured who is an employed person returns to work but, because
of injuries suffered in the accident, is incapable of earning the
amount of the insured's present disability benefits, the corporation
will pay the difference between the insured's disability benefits and
the amount the insured is presently earning through the insured's
employment.


[am. B.C. Regs. 335/84, s. 20; 448/90, s. 14; 324/91, s. 21; 404/94,
s. 12; 117/2021, App. 6, s. 14.]






Review of benefits




87


Any benefits payable under section 80, 84 or 86 may be reviewed every
12 months and terminated by the corporation on the advice of the
corporation's medical advisor.

[am. B.C. Reg. 234/2018, App. 2, s. 11.]





Medical or rehabilitation benefits




88

(0.1)


In this section:



"British Columbia consumer price index"

means the annual average All-items Consumer Price Index for British
Columbia, as published by Statistics Canada under the authority of the

Statistics Act

(Canada);



"fiscal year"

means the period beginning on April 1 in one year and ending on March
31 in the next year.




(1)

If an insured is injured in an accident for which benefits are
provided under this Part, the corporation must, subject to this
section, pay as benefits all reasonable expenses incurred by the
insured as a result of the injury for necessary




(a)

health care services listed in Column A of Table 1 or Table 2, as
applicable, of Schedule 3.1 and provided by the applicable health care
practitioner,




(b)

occupational therapy provided by an occupational therapist, and




(c)

medical, surgical, dental, hospital, ambulance and professional
nursing services, speech therapy, medication, prostheses and orthoses.




(1.01)

For the purposes of subsection (1) (a), a treatment




(a)

that is in addition to the number of treatments listed in Column D of
Table 1 of Schedule 3.1 corresponding to that health care service, or




(b)

that is provided more than 12 weeks after the date of the accident


is not a necessary health care service unless the corporation's
medical advisor or the insured's physician certifies to the
corporation in writing that, in the opinion of the medical advisor or
physician, the treatment is necessary for the insured.




(1.1)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 383/89, s. 14.]




(1.2)

Subject to subsection (1.3), the benefits paid under subsection (1)
must not,




(a)

for each health care service referred to in subsection (1) (a), exceed
the fee limit set out in Column B or C, as applicable, of
Table 1 of Schedule 3.1 corresponding to that health care
service,




(b)

for occupational therapy, exceed the fee limit of $112 per hour, and




(c)

for each health care service referred to in subsection (1) (a) that is
provided by a physician, exceed the fee limit set out in Column B
of Table 2 of Schedule 3.1.




(1.3)

For the fiscal year beginning on April 1, 2020, and for each fiscal
year after that, each fee limit referred to in subsection (1.2) must
be determined annually by multiplying




(a)

the fee limit amount for the immediately preceding fiscal year, and




(b)

the sum of




(i)

1, and




(ii)

the annual percentage change in the British Columbia consumer price
index, as determined under subsection (1.5) and rounded to the
nearest 1/10 of a percentage point.




(1.4)

Despite subsection (1.3) (b) (ii), if the annual percentage change as
determined under subsection (1.5)




(a)

is a negative number, the annual percentage change is zero, or




(b)

is greater than 6%, the annual percentage change is 6%.




(1.5)

The annual percentage change referred to in subsection (1.3) (b) (ii)
must be calculated using the following formula:




APC =

CPI1 − CPI2


CPI2








where


APC
=

the annual percentage change in the British Columbia consumer
price index;



CPI1
=

the sum of the 12 individual monthly British Columbia consumer
price indexes for the consecutive 12 month period ending on
December 31 of the fiscal year immediately preceding the fiscal
year for which the fee limit is being determined;



CPI2
=

the sum of the 12 individual monthly British Columbia consumer
price indexes for the consecutive 12 month period immediately
preceding the 12 month period referred to in the description of
CPI1.







(1.6)

The fee limit amount determined under subsection (1.3) must be rounded
to the nearest dollar and an amount ending in .50 must be rounded up
to the next dollar.




(2)

Where, in the opinion of the corporation's medical advisor, provision
of any one or more of the following is likely to promote the
rehabilitation of an insured who is injured in an accident for which
benefits are provided under this Part, the corporation may provide any
one or more of the following:




(a)

funds to the insured once during the lifetime of the insured for the
acquisition by the insured of one motor vehicle equipped as necessary
and appropriate to its use or operation by the insured, the choice of
make or model of vehicle to be in the sole discretion of the
corporation;




(b)

funds to the insured once during the lifetime of the insured for
alterations to the insured's residence that are necessary to make the
residence accessible to and usable by the insured, the style and cost
of the alterations to be in the sole discretion of the corporation and
the alterations to be limited to necessary ramps, a necessary lift,
necessary bathroom alterations and, where the insured is a homemaker
or a person who lives alone, necessary kitchen alterations;




(c)

reimbursement to the insured for the costs of attendant care, other
than care provided by a member of the insured's family, where the
insured has returned to and is residing in the community but is not
capable of performing some or all of the tasks necessary to sustain an
independent lifestyle, the amount of the reimbursement to be limited
to the lesser of




(i)

the monthly cost of a group residence, including a long term care
facility, that would be appropriate to the care needs of the insured
as determined by the rehabilitation team, and




(ii)

the monthly cost of attendant care required by the insured as a result
of injuries from the accident, the level and type of which will be
determined by the rehabilitation team based on the level of care
provided by Home Community Care services under the

Continuing Care Act

;




(d)

reimbursement to the insured for costs incurred from time to time by
the insured for the purchase and reasonable repair, adjustment or
replacement of one or more of the following items:




(i)

a wheelchair;




(ii)

a medically prescribed bed for other than hospital use;




(iii)

bowel and bladder equipment;




(iv)

aids for communication, dressing, eating, grooming and hygiene;




(v)

transfer equipment;




(vi)

a ventilator;




(d.1)

reimbursement to the insured for costs incurred from time to time by
the insured for the purchase of health care supplies or of health care
services not referred to in subsection (1), not exceeding the amount
set out in section 3 (3) of Schedule 3;




(e)

funds to the insured for vocational or other training that




(i)

is consistent with the insured's pre-injury occupation and post-injury
skills and abilities, and




(ii)

may return the insured as nearly as practicable to the insured's
pre-injury status or improve the post-injury earning capacity and
level of independence of the insured;




(f)

funds for any other costs the corporation in its sole discretion
agrees to pay.




(3)

Before incurring an expense or obligation under subsection (2) for
which the insured intends to request payment by the corporation, the
insured shall obtain written approval from the corporation and the
corporation may, before giving its approval, require the insured to
submit such information as it considers necessary to assist it in
making a decision.




(4)

The corporation is not liable to insure, repair, replace or maintain a
motor vehicle acquired by an insured under
subsection (2) (a).




(4.1)

For the purposes of subsection (4), the cost of maintenance includes
operating costs.




(5)

The amount by which the liability of the corporation under this
section is limited is the amount set out in section 3 of
Schedule 3.




(6)

The corporation is not liable for any expenses paid or payable to or
recoverable by the insured under a medical, surgical, dental or
hospital plan or law, or paid or payable by another insurer, except
expenses referred to in subsection (1) (a) and (b).




(7)

The maximum amount payable by the corporation under this section for
health care services, except for the health care services listed in
Column A of Table 1 or Table 2 of Schedule 3.1, is the amount set
out in a payment schedule for that service established by the Medical
Services Commission under section 26 of the

Medicare Protection Act

, as that schedule is amended from time to time, for that service.




(8)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 234/2018, App. 2, s. 12 (j).]


[am. B.C. Regs. 335/84, s. 21; 379/85, s. 33; 449/88, s. 14; 383/89,
s. 14; 438/92, s. 15; 491/95, s. 15; 166/2006, Sch. s. 64; 4/2010, s.
3; 60/2019, App. 1, s. 2; 234/2018, App. 2, s. 12, as am. by B.C. Reg.
60/2019, App. 2, ss. 2 and 3; 62/2021, App. 4, s. 23; 117/2021, App.
6, s. 15.]






Requirement for receipts




88.01

(1)


If an accident occurs for which benefits are provided under section
88, the insured must provide to the corporation a receipt for the
expenses incurred that will be compensated as benefits under that
section no later than 60 days from the date that those expenses are
incurred.




(2)

The corporation is not liable to an insured who, without reasonable
excuse, fails to comply with this section.

[en. B.C. Reg. 60/2019, App. 1, s. 3.]





Arbitration




89


For the purpose of section 88 (1), any dispute between the corporation
and an insured as to whether or not an expense is reasonable, shall be
submitted to arbitration under the

Arbitration Act

.


[am. B.C. Regs. 449/88, s. 15; 62/2021, App. 4, s. 24.]






Power to terminate benefits for refusal to undergo treatment or
training




90

(1)


If, in the opinion of the corporation's medical advisor or vocational
advisor and in the opinion of the physician attending an insured who
is receiving benefits under section 80, 84, 86 or 88,




(a)

any medical, surgical or other similar treatment is likely to relieve
in whole or part the disability of the insured, or




(b)

a retraining or educational program is likely to assist in the
rehabilitation of the insured,


the corporation may require the insured, at the expense of the
corporation, to undergo treatment or complete the program.




(2)

Subject to subsection (3), where an insured refuses to comply with a
requirement under this section, the corporation may, after giving the
insured at least 60 days' notice in writing, by registered mail,
postage prepaid, addressed to the insured at the insured's last
address according to the corporation's records, terminate payment of
benefits under section 80, 84, 86 or 88.




(3)

The insured may, within the period of 60 days mentioned in subsection
(2), apply to a judge of the Supreme Court for an injunction against
terminating the benefits on grounds that




(a)

the treatment the insured is required to undergo




(i)

is unlikely to relieve the insured's disability, or




(ii)

may injuriously affect the balance of the health of the insured, or




(b)

the program the insured is required to complete is not likely to
assist in the rehabilitation of the insured.


[am. B.C. Regs. 335/84, s. 22; 234/2018, App. 2, s. 13; 62/2021, App.
4, s. 25; 117/2021, App. 6, s. 16.]






Funeral expenses




91


Where the death of an insured is caused by an accident described in
section 79, the corporation shall, subject to section 88 (6), promptly
reimburse for burial and funeral expenses not exceeding the amount set
out in section 4 of Schedule 3.






Death benefits




92

(1)


The corporation must pay, if the death of an insured is caused by an
accident for which benefits are provided under this Part, a death
benefit as follows:




(a)

if the deceased insured is survived by one spouse and no supported
persons, a single lump sum amount of $30 000 payable to the spouse;




(b)

if the deceased insured is survived by one spouse and one or more
supported persons,




(i)

a single lump sum amount of $30 000 payable to the spouse, and




(ii)

a single lump sum amount of $6 000 payable to each supported person;




(c)

if the deceased insured is survived by more than one spouse and no
supported persons,




(i)

a total amount of $30 000 divided equally among the spouses and
payable to each spouse, and




(ii)

a single lump sum amount of $6 000 payable to each spouse;




(d)

if the deceased insured is survived by more than one spouse and one or
more supported persons,




(i)

a total amount of $30 000 divided equally among the spouses and
payable to each spouse, and




(ii)

a single lump sum amount of $6 000 payable to each spouse and to
each supported person;




(e)

if the deceased insured is survived by no spouse and one supported
person, a single lump sum amount of $30 000 payable to the
supported person;




(f)

if the deceased insured is survived by no spouse and more than one
supported person,




(i)

a total amount of $30 000 divided equally among the supported
persons and payable to each supported person, and




(ii)

a single lump sum amount of $6 000 payable to each supported
person.




(2)

The corporation must pay a death benefit as set out in subsection (3)
or (4), as applicable, if




(a)

the death of an insured is caused by an accident for which benefits
are provided under this Part, and




(b)

the deceased insured is a deceased supported child within the meaning
of subsection (8).




(3)

If the deceased insured is survived by one parent




(a)

who was legally liable to financially support the deceased insured and
on whom the deceased insured was dependent, or




(b)

with whom the deceased insured resided at the time of death and from
whom the deceased insured received most of the insured's financial
support because of a mental or physical disability,


the corporation must pay a death benefit in a single lump sum amount
of $3 000 to the surviving parent.




(4)

If the deceased insured is survived by more than one parent




(a)

who was legally liable to financially support the deceased insured and
on whom the deceased insured was dependent, or




(b)

with whom the deceased insured resided at the time of death and from
whom the deceased insured received most of the insured's financial
support because of a mental or physical disability,


the corporation must pay a death benefit in a total amount of $3 000
divided equally among the surviving parents and payable to each
surviving parent.




(5)

If




(a)

the death of an insured is caused by an accident for which benefits
are provided under this Part,




(b)

the deceased insured is a deceased supported parent within the meaning
of subsection (9), and




(c)

the deceased insured is survived by a child with whom the deceased
insured, at the time of death, resided and who provided most of the
deceased insured's financial support,


the corporation must pay a death benefit in a single lump sum amount
of $3 000 to the surviving child.




(6)

Any benefits payable under this section to a supported child of a
deceased insured must be paid in accordance with section 92 of the
Act.




(7)

An entitlement to benefits payable under this section must be
determined as of the date of the death of the insured.




(8)

For the purposes of subsection (2),
"deceased supported child"
means any of the following:




(a)

a deceased insured who, at the time of death, was under 19 years of
age and for whose support a parent was legally liable and who was
dependent on the parent for financial support;




(b)

a deceased insured who, at the time of death, was 19 years of age or
older, resided with a parent and received most of the insured's
financial support from the parent because of a mental or physical
disability.




(9)

For the purposes of subsection (5), a
"deceased supported parent"
means a deceased insured who was a parent who, at the time of death,
resided with a child and received most of the insured's financial
support from the child.


[en. B.C. Reg. 234/2018, App. 2, s. 14; am. B.C. Reg. 62/2021, App. 4,
ss. 26 and 27.]






Repealed




93-94


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 234/2018, App. 2, s. 14.]






Sixty day rule and common disaster




95

(1)


Any benefits payable under section 92 must be paid only to a person
who survives the deceased insured by at least 60 days.




(2)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 234/2018, App. 2, s. 15 (b).]




(3)

The corporation may, in its sole discretion, waive the 60 day survival
requirement under subsection (1).


[am. B.C. Regs. 448/90, s. 15; 234/2018, App. 2, s. 15.]






Restriction on benefits




96


The corporation is not liable to pay benefits under this Part in
respect of the injury or death of a person




(a)

who is not a resident and, at the time of the accident, is the
occupant of a vehicle not described in an owner's certificate,




(b)

who, at the time of the accident, is




(i)

an occupant of or is struck by a vehicle that could not be licensed
under the

Motor Vehicle Act

or

Commercial Transport Act

or that is of such design that if owned or operated in the Province
could not be licensed under one of those Acts,




(ii)

the occupant of a vehicle exempted under section 1.01 or 1.02 of the
Act, whether or not the vehicle is operated by a person named in a
driver's certificate, or




(iii)

the occupant of a vehicle that is of such design that it could be
licensed under the

Motor Vehicle Act

, the

Commercial Transport Act

or similar legislation of another jurisdiction, but that is in fact
not licensed under the applicable legislation unless the occupant had
reasonable grounds to believe that the vehicle was licensed,




(c)

who commits suicide or attempts to commit suicide,




(d)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 449/88, s. 17.]




(e)

who is the occupant of a vehicle that, at the time of the accident, is
being used for an illicit or prohibited trade or transport, or




(f)

whose injury or death is caused, directly or indirectly, by sickness
or disease, unless the sickness or disease was contracted as a direct
result of an accident for which benefits are provided under this Part.


[am. B.C. Regs. 379/85, ss. 36 and 37; 449/88, s. 17; 62/2021, App. 4,
s. 28.]






Notice of claim




97

(1)


If an accident occurs for which benefits are provided under this Part,
the insured must




(a)

promptly give the corporation notice of the accident,




(b)

not later than 30 days from the date of the accident, mail to the
corporation by registered mail, or deliver to the nearest claims
centre of the corporation, a written report on the accident with
particulars of the circumstances in which the accident occurred and
the consequences of the accident, and




(c)

within 90 days from the date of the accident provide the corporation
with a proof of claim in a form authorized by the corporation.




(2)

The corporation is not liable to an insured who, to the prejudice of
the corporation, fails to comply with this section.

[am. B.C. Reg. 60/2019, App. 1, s. 4.]





Repealed




97.1


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 166/2006, Sch. s. 65.]






Medical certificates




98

(1)


An insured must, on request of the corporation, promptly provide a
certificate or report of an attending health care practitioner as to
the nature and extent of the insured's injury, and the treatment,
current condition and prognosis of the injury.




(1.1)

The certificate or report required by subsection (1) must be provided
to the corporation




(a)

in any form specified by the corporation including, without
limitation, narrative form, and




(b)

in any format specified by the corporation including, without
limitation, oral and written formats.




(2)

The corporation is not liable to an insured who, to the prejudice of
the corporation, fails to comply with this section.


[am. B.C. Regs. 408/87, s. 23; 491/95, s. 16; 60/2019, App. 1, s. 5;
234/2018, App. 2, s. 16; 62/2021, App. 4, s. 29.]






Medical examination




99

(1)


An insured who makes a claim under this Part must allow a health care
practitioner selected by the corporation, at the expense of the
corporation, to examine the insured as often as it requires.




(2)

The corporation is not liable to an insured who, to the prejudice of
the corporation, fails to comply with this section.


[am. B.C. Regs. 408/87, s. 24; 491/95, s. 17; 234/2018, App. 2, s.
17.]






Autopsy




100

(1)


If death occurs as a result of an accident for which benefits may be
payable under this Part, the corporation may withhold benefits payable
under section 92 until the person claiming the benefits allows the
corporation to order an autopsy or post mortem examination to be
performed at the expense of the corporation.




(2)

If death occurs a considerable time after the date of the accident and
in circumstances that, in the opinion of the corporation, raise doubt
as to whether the insured died as a result of the accident, the
corporation must withhold any benefits under section 92 unless, before
burial or cremation of the insured, the person claiming the benefits
informs the corporation of the death and allows the corporation to
order an autopsy or post mortem examination at the expense of the
corporation.




(3)

The corporation must refer any dispute respecting an autopsy or post
mortem examination to the chief coroner or another coroner appointed
under the

Coroners Act

.

[en. B.C. Reg. 62/2021, App. 4, s. 30.]





Time of payment




101


Benefits payable under this Part shall be paid by the corporation




(a)

in the case of weekly benefits, within 4 weeks after it receives proof
of claim, and thereafter at 4 week intervals if the insured complies
with sections 98 and 99 when required by the corporation,
and




(b)

in any other case, within 60 days after it receives proof of claim.






Alteration of form of payment




102


The corporation may, at any time, make a lump sum payment of benefits
or otherwise alter the form of payment to benefit the insured.






Limitation




103

(1)


An insured must not commence an action in respect of benefits under
this Part unless




(a)

the insured has substantially complied with the provisions of sections
97 to 100 that are applicable to the insured, and




(b)

the action is commenced as follows:




(i)

if the insured has issued written notice to the corporation under
subsection (3) and the corporation has issued a written response, the
action must be commenced by the later of the following:




(A)

within 3 months after the date of the response from the corporation;




(B)

within 2 years after the date of the accident for which the benefits
are claimed;




(C)

if benefits have been paid, within 2 years after the date the last
benefit payment under this Part was made;




(ii)

if the insured has issued written notice to the corporation under
subsection (3) and the corporation has not issued a written response,
subject to subsection (2), the action may be commenced at any
time;




(iii)

if the insured has not issued written notice to the corporation under
subsection (3), the action must be commenced within 2 years after




(A)

the date of the accident for which the benefits are claimed, or




(B)

if benefits have been paid, the date the last benefit payment under
this Part was made.




(2)

If the corporation issues a written response to a notice issued under
subsection (3), the action must be commenced in accordance with
subsection (1) (b) (i).




(3)

An insured may issue written notice to the corporation of the
insured's intention to commence an action in respect of benefits under
this Part if the insured makes a claim for benefits under this Part




(a)

that has been denied, or




(b)

for which the corporation has not made a payment in accordance with
section 101.




(4)

The notice referred to in subsection (3) must be




(a)

in the form established by the corporation,




(b)

sent by registered mail addressed to the claim office dealing with the
insured's claim, and




(c)

received by the corporation within 2 years after the later of the
following:




(i)

the date of the accident for which benefits are claimed;




(ii)

if benefits have been paid, the date the last benefit payment under
this Part was made.




(5)

The written response by the corporation referred to in subsections (1)
(b) (i) and (2) must be either personally delivered to the insured or
forwarded to the insured by registered mail to the last known address
of the insured.

[en. B.C. Reg. 234/2018, App. 2, s. 19.]





Other insurance




104

(1)


If benefits




(a)

are provided under this Part and evidenced by an owner's certificate
in respect of a vehicle involved in an accident, and




(b)

are also provided under this Part and evidenced by an owner's
certificate in respect of a vehicle not involved in the accident, or
by a driver's certificate,


the benefits described in paragraph (a) are primary and the benefits
described in paragraph (b) are available only to the extent that the
amount of those benefits exceeds the amount of benefits described in
paragraph (a).




(2)

If an insured is also insured under vehicle insurance that provides
compensation similar to benefits provided under this Part or similar
benefits or insurance under similar legislation of another
jurisdiction, the liability of the corporation for payment of benefits
under this Part must be determined,




(a)

if a claim is made in respect of an accident that occurs in the
Province, as if section 179 applied in respect of benefits provided
under this Part, and




(b)

if a claim is made in respect of an accident that occurs in another
jurisdiction, as if the provisions of the legislation of that
jurisdiction respecting terms, conditions and priorities of vehicle
insurance applied in respect of benefits provided under this Part.




(3)

Subsection (2) does not apply in respect of benefits payable under
section 80.


[am. B.C. Regs. 379/85, s. 38; 166/2006, Sch. s. 67.]






Transitional — disability benefits, funeral expenses and death
benefits




104.1

(1)


For the purposes of section 80 (1), the applicable amount of
disability benefits set out in section 2 of Schedule 3,




(a)

as it read immediately before April 1, 2019 continues to apply in
relation to disability benefits payable by the corporation under
section 80 (1) (a) in respect of an accident that occurred before
April 1, 2019, and




(b)

as it reads on April 1, 2019 applies in relation to disability
benefits payable by the corporation under section 80 (1) (a) in
respect of an accident that occurs on or after April 1, 2019.




(2)

For the purposes of section 84, the maximum amount per week as set out
in section 2 of Schedule 3,




(a)

as it read immediately before April 1, 2019 continues to apply in
relation to disability benefits for homemakers payable by the
corporation under section 84 (1) in respect of an accident that
occurred before April 1, 2019, and




(b)

as it reads on April 1, 2019 applies in relation to disability
benefits for homemakers payable by the corporation under section 84
(1) in respect of an accident that occurs on or after April 1, 2019.




(3)

For the purposes of section 91, the amount set out in section 4
of Schedule 3,




(a)

as it read immediately before April 1, 2019 continues to apply in
relation to burial and funeral expenses payable by the corporation
under section 91 in respect of an accident that occurred before April
1, 2019, and




(b)

as it reads on April 1, 2019 applies in relation to burial and funeral
expenses payable by the corporation under section 91 in respect of an
accident that occurs on or after April 1, 2019.




(4)

Sections 92 and 93 and sections 5 and 6 of Schedule 3 as they read
immediately before April 1, 2019 continue to apply in relation to
death benefits payable by the corporation under those sections in
respect of an accident that occurred before April 1, 2019, and section
92 as it reads on April 1, 2019 applies in relation to death benefits
payable by the corporation under that section in respect of an
accident that occurs on or after April 1, 2019.


[en. B.C. Reg. 234/2018, App. 2, s. 20, as am. by B.C. Reg. 60/2019,
App. 2, s. 4.]






Transitional — medical or rehabilitation benefits




104.2


Section 88 as it reads on April 1, 2019 applies in relation to medical
or rehabilitation benefits payable under section 88 for expenses
incurred on or after April 1, 2019 regardless of the date of the
accident.


[en. B.C. Reg. 234/2018, App. 2, s. 20, as am. by B.C. Reg. 60/2019,
App. 2, s. 5.]






Transitional — receipts




104.21


Section 88.01 applies in respect of an accident that occurs on or
after April 1, 2019.

[en. B.C. Reg. 60/2019, App. 1, s. 6.]





Transitional — limitation




104.3


Section 103 as it read immediately before April 1, 2019 continues to
apply in relation to an action in respect of benefits under this Part
in relation to an accident that occurred before April 1, 2019, and
section 103 as it reads on April 1, 2019 applies in relation to an
action in respect of benefits under this Part in relation to an
accident that occurs on or after April 1, 2019.

[en. B.C. Reg. 234/2018, App. 2, s. 20.]



Contents
|


Part 1
|


Part 2
|


Part 3
|


Part 4
|


Part 5
|


Part 6
|

Part 7 |

Part 8
|


Part 9
|


Part 10
|


Part 11
|


Part 12
|


Part 13
|


Part 14
|


Part 15
|



Schedules 1 to 10





