





View Complete Regulation






B.C. Reg. 447/83

O.C. 1897/83


Deposited December 1, 1983

effective January 1, 1984






This consolidation is current to January 30, 2024.

See the

Cumulative B.C. Regulations Bulletin 2023

and


Cumulative B.C. Regulations Bulletin 2024


for amendments effective after January 30, 2024.





Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Insurance (Vehicle) Act


Insurance (Vehicle) Regulation


[Last amended September 1, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 147/2022]



Part 5 — Conditions of Certificate





Substitute vehicles




52


Where an owner of a vehicle described in an owner's certificate




(a)

acquires, during the term of the owner's certificate, another vehicle
in substitution for the described vehicle,




(b)

transfers title to or interest in the described vehicle, and




(c)

removes the number plates from the described vehicle, in accordance
with section 3.05 of the Motor Vehicle Act Regulations, B.C. Reg.
26/58, and displays them on the substitute vehicle,


the coverage evidenced by the owner's certificate applies in respect
of the substitute vehicle for a period of 10 days from the day the
owner acquires the substitute vehicle.


[am. B.C. Regs. 335/84, s. 14; 166/2006, Sch. s. 40.]






Leased vehicle coverage




53

(1)


An owner's certificate issued to an applicant who has complied with
section 8 evidences coverage under Parts 6 and 7 and Division 1 of
Part 10 for




(a)

the renter, and the renter's household,




(b)

the driver assigned by the renter to operate the leased vehicle and
that driver's household, and




(c)

every person operating the vehicle with the renter's consent.




(2)

A reference in subsection (1) to a renter includes a subrenter of the
renter.


[am. B.C. Regs. 438/92, s. 6; 452/2003, s. 2; 166/2006, Sch. s. 41;
341/2007, ss. 3 and 6.]






Extension of coverage on seizure




54


Where a person acting under the authority of a lien holder takes
possession of a vehicle under the lien holder's right of repossession,
the coverage in force in respect of the vehicle at the time it was
repossessed is extended to and continues in force for the benefit of
that person, the lien holder and the owner, if the person acting under
the authority of the lien holder




(a)

moves the vehicle immediately and as directly as reasonably possible
to the nearest safe place of storage, and




(b)

at the place of storage immediately removes the number plates from the
vehicle and delivers them to the owner or corporation.


[am. B.C. Regs. 312/96, s. 1; 62/2021, App. 4, s. 9.]






Repealed




54.1


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 166/2006, Sch. s. 42.]






Breach of conditions




55

(1)


In this section,
"insured"
means an insured as defined in section 42, 63, 65, 78 or 148.1 (1) and
includes an insured under an additional product certificate or a fleet
reporting certificate issued under section 168.




(1.1)

The corporation is not liable to an insured who breaches a condition
of this section or is deemed under subsection (7.1) or (8) to have
breached a condition of section 49 and Part 6.




(2)

An insured must not operate a vehicle for which coverage is provided
under section 49 or Part 6 contrary to the statements contained in the
application for insurance for the vehicle, including, but not limited
to




(a)

the use declared in the application for insurance for the vehicle,




(b)

a statement relating to the time during which, and the territories in
which, the vehicle may be operated, and




(c)

a statement relating to the kind of goods or number of passengers that
may be carried in or on the vehicle.




(2.1)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 166/2006, Sch. s. 43 (c).]




(3)

An insured must not operate a vehicle for which coverage is provided
under section 49 or 49.3 (1) (a) and (c), Part 6 or 7, or Division 2
of Part 10




(a)

if the insured is not authorized and not qualified by law to operate
the vehicle,




(b)

for an illicit or prohibited trade or transportation,




(c)

to escape or avoid arrest or other similar police action, or




(d)

in a race or speed test.




(3.1)

An insured does not breach a condition of subsection (3) merely
because the insured operates a vehicle in contravention of a
restriction or condition imposed on the insured's driver's licence by
section 30.06 (2), 30.07 (1) or (3), 30.071 (1), 30.08 (1), 30.10 (2)
or (4) or 30.11 (1) of the Motor Vehicle Act Regulations.




(4)

An insured must not operate a motor vehicle for which coverage is
provided under section 49 or Part 6 if there is attached to the motor
vehicle a trailer that is required to be registered and licensed under
the

Motor Vehicle Act

or

Commercial Transport Act

and is not so registered and licensed.




(5)

An insured named in a certificate or additional product certificate
must not permit the vehicle described in the certificate or additional
product certificate to be operated by a person or for a purpose that
breaches a condition of this section or Part 6.




(5.1)

An insured must not operate a vehicle, in circumstances in which
coverage under Part 6 is provided by a blanket certificate, if the
insured does, omits to do, participates in, assents to or acquiesces
in anything that results in




(a)

a breach of a condition of the blanket certificate,




(b)

the invalidity of a claim under the blanket certificate, or




(c)

the forfeiture of a right under the blanket certificate.




(5.2)

An insured named in an owner's certificate issued in respect of a
vehicle must not permit the vehicle to be operated, in circumstances
in which coverage under Part 6 is provided by a blanket certificate,
if the insured does, omits to do, participates in, assents to or
acquiesces in anything that results in a breach, the invalidity of a
claim or the forfeiture of a right referred to subsection (5.1).




(6)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 166/2006, Sch. s. 43 (c).]




(7)

Use of a vehicle does not contravene subsection (2) if the premium
paid for the vehicle rate class applicable to the use set out in the
application for insurance is greater than or equal to the premium
established by the corporation for the vehicle rate class applicable
to the use to which the vehicle is put.




(7.1)

An insured is deemed to have breached a condition of section 49 and
Part 6 if the injury, death, loss or damage in respect of which the
insured's claim is made is caused by or results from an intentional
act of violence committed by the insured by means of a vehicle unless
the insured is a mentally disordered person at the time of the act.




(8)

An insured is deemed to have breached a condition of section 49 and
Part 6 if




(a)

the insured is operating a vehicle while the insured is under the
influence of intoxicating liquor or a drug or other intoxicating
substance to such an extent that the insured is incapable of proper
control of the vehicle,




(b)

the insured is convicted of




(i)

a motor vehicle related

Criminal Code

offence,




(ii)

an offence under section 95 or 102 of the

Motor Vehicle Act

, or




(iii)

an offence under a provision of the law of another jurisdiction in
Canada or the United States of America that is similar to a provision
referred to in subparagraph (i) or (ii), or




(c)

the insured is convicted of an offence committed




(i)

before December 18, 2018 under section 253 (1) (b) of the

Criminal Code

, or




(ii)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 62/2021, App. 4, s. 11 (c).]




(iii)

under a provision of the law of another jurisdiction in Canada or the
United States of America that is similar to a provision referred to in
subparagraph (i),


and the accident in respect of which the insured's claim is made
occurred during the insured's commission of the offence and while the
insured was operating a vehicle.




(d)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 62/2021, App. 4, s. 11 (f).]




(9)

In subsection (8):


"convicted"
includes being




(a)

convicted under the

Youth Criminal Justice Act

(Canada) for contravening




(i)

a provision referred to in the definition of "motor vehicle related

Criminal Code

offence", or




(ii)

in the case of a contravention occurring before December 18, 2018, a
provision referred to in subsection (8) (c) (i), and




(b)

convicted or the subject of a similar result in a jurisdiction of the
United States of America under a law similar to the

Youth Criminal Justice Act

(Canada) for contravening a provision of a law of that jurisdiction
referred to in subsection (8) (b) (iii) or
(c) (iii);



"motor vehicle related
Criminal Code
offence"

means any of the following offences that an insured commits while
operating or having care or control of a vehicle or by means of a
vehicle:




(a)

an offence under section 220 or 221 of the

Criminal Code

;




(b)

an offence committed before December 18, 2018 under any of the
following provisions of the

Criminal Code

:




(i)

section 249;




(ii)

section 252;




(iii)

section 253 (1) (a);




(iii.1)

section 254 (5);




(iv)

section 255 (2);




(v)

section 255 (3);




(vi)

section 259 (4);




(c)

an offence committed on or after December 18, 2018 under any of the
following provisions of the

Criminal Code

:




(i)

section 235;




(ii)

section 236;




(iii)

section 239 (1);




(iv)

section 320.13 (1);




(v)

section 320.13 (2);




(vi)

section 320.13 (3);




(vii)

section 320.14 (1) (a);




(viii)

section 320.14 (1) (b);




(ix)

section 320.14 (1) (c);




(x)

section 320.14 (1) (d);




(xi)

section 320.14 (2);




(xii)

section 320.14 (3);




(xiii)

section 320.15 (1);




(xix)

section 320.15 (2);




(xx)

section 320.15 (3);




(xxi)

section 320.16 (1);




(xxii)

section 320.16 (2);




(xxiii)

section 320.16 (3);




(xxiv)

section 320.18 (1).


[am. B.C. Regs. 335/84, s. 15; 379/85, ss. 26 and 27; 257/86, s. 16;
408/87, s. 17; 449/88, s. 8; 383/89, s. 9; 70/90; 448/90, s. 10;
324/91, s. 16; 491/95, s. 10; 347/96, s. 1; 257/98; 441/98, s. 6;
380/2000, s. 2; 263/2001, s. 5; 309/2002, ss. 3 and 4; 354/2003, s.
(a); 166/2006, Sch. s. 43; 3/2010, s. (a); 126/2014, App. 2, s. 7;
253/2018, s. 1; 161/2019, s. 3; 62/2021, App. 4, ss. 10 to 12;
117/2021, App. 6, s. 6; 304/2021, s. (b).]






Exclusion




56

(1)


The corporation is not liable




(a)

under Part 4, 6, 7 or 10 in respect of injury, death, loss or damage
arising, directly or indirectly, out of radioactive, toxic, explosive
or other hazardous properties of nuclear substances within the meaning
of the

Nuclear Safety and Control Act

(Canada),




(b)

under section 20 or 24 of the Act or section 49.3, Part 7 or Part 10
in respect of injury, death, loss or damage arising, directly or
indirectly out of a declared or undeclared war or insurrection,
rebellion or revolution, or




(c)

under section 20 or 24 of the Act or section 49, 49.3 (1) (b), Part 6
or Part 10 in respect of punitive or exemplary damages or other
similar non-compensatory damages.




(2)

Subsection (1) (a) does not apply to the carriage of radioisotopes
that are




(a)

packaged and labelled in accordance with the

Transportation of Dangerous Goods Act

(Canada), and




(b)

to be used for medical treatment, research, photography, x-ray or
other similar purposes using radioisotopes.


[am. B.C. Regs. 335/84, s. 16; 257/86, s. 17; 449/88, s. 9; 383/89, s.
10; 324/91, s. 17; 491/95, s. 10; 347/96, s. 2; 263/2001, s. 6;
298/2002, s. 2; 166/2006, Sch. s. 44; 62/2021, App. 4, s. 13.]






Additional product certificate




56.1


A reference in this Part to Part 6, 7 or 10 of this regulation or Part
10 or 11 of the Act includes coverage under those Parts that is
evidenced by an additional product certificate or by a fleet reporting
certificate issued under section 168 of this regulation.

[en. B.C. Reg. 62/2021, App. 4, s. 14.]





Garage exclusion




57

(1)


If a vehicle owned by a customer of a garage service operator is in
the care, custody or control of the garage service operator or an
employee of the garage service operator for a purpose relating to the
business of a garage service, no coverage is provided under Part 6 or
7 of this regulation or Part 10 or 11 of the Act to the garage service
operator or the employee under the owner's certificate issued in
respect of the customer's vehicle.




(2)

This section does not operate to exclude




(a)

a garage service operator or an employee of the garage service
operator from coverage under an owner's certificate issued in respect
of a vehicle that




(i)

the garage service operator or employee owns, and




(ii)

is in the care, custody or control of the garage service operator or
employee for a purpose relating to the business of the garage service
operator, or




(b)

a customer of a garage service operator from coverage under an owner's
certificate issued to the customer, if the garage service operator




(i)

is not insured, or is insufficiently insured, under a garage vehicle
certificate, and




(ii)

is liable for an accident for which the owner's certificate would,
except for subsection (1), provide coverage.


[am. B.C. Regs. 449/88, s. 1; 441/98, s. 7; 166/2006, Sch. s. 24;
46/2007, Sch. 2, s. 16; 62/2021, App. 4, s. 15; 117/2021, App. 6, s.
7.]






Repealed




58


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 166/2006, Sch. s. 46.]






Financial assistance




58.1

(1)


In this section:



"financial institution"

means a savings institution that, under a contractual arrangement with
the corporation, agrees to provide financial assistance to an owner
for the purchase from the corporation of a certificate;


"owner"
includes




(a)

a person registered as the owner of a vehicle, and




(b)

a renter of a vehicle that is rented by that person as a leased
vehicle.




(2)

An owner may make application to the financial institution for
financial assistance, in respect of all or part of the premium,
licensing and registration fees, administrative fees and other charges
agreed to by the corporation, to purchase from the corporation a
certificate.




(3)

If an owner defaults on the repayment of financial assistance provided
to the owner by the financial institution and the corporation pays the
amount of the default by way of assignment of the debt from the
financial institution, the total amount of the default, including
interest and other charges, is a debt of the owner due and owing to
the corporation.




(4)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 328/97, s. 4.]


[en. B.C. Reg. 347/94; am. B.C. Regs. 328/97, s. 4; 166/2006, Sch. s.
47; 341/2007, s. 7.]






Waiver of term or condition




59

(1)


Where the corporation waives a condition of section 55 that is related
to rating a vehicle to determine premium, it may as a condition of
insurance require the insured in whose favour the waiver is exercised
to pay an amount equal to the difference between the premium paid and
the premium that would have been payable if the vehicle had been
correctly rated.




(2)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 166/2006, Sch. s. 48.]

[am. B.C. Reg. 166/2006, Sch. s. 48.]





Ex gratia payments




60


Where the corporation considers that payment of a doubtful or disputed
claim is in the interest of the corporation and of the better
administration of the Act, the regulations or the plan, the
corporation may authorize an ex gratia payment to be made.






Extraprovincial undertakings




61

(1)


An owner or operator of an extraprovincial undertaking who elects to
give proof of financial responsibility in respect of a vehicle under
section 106 (2) (b) of the

Motor Vehicle Act

shall be deemed to have so elected in respect of every vehicle owned
by the extraprovincial undertaking or rented to the extraprovincial
undertaking as a leased vehicle.




(2)

If the owner or operator of an extraprovincial undertaking obtains
duplicate coverage by insuring a vehicle under an owner's certificate
and under vehicle insurance issued by an insurer authorized for that
purpose under the

Financial Institutions Act

or under a similar law of another jurisdiction, the coverage provided
by that vehicle insurance is primary insurance and the owner's
certificate continues to provide insurance




(a)

in respect of third party liability insurance coverage only to the
extent that the amount by which liability is limited under the owner's
certificate exceeds the amount by which liability is limited under the
vehicle insurance, and




(b)

in respect of accident benefits coverage only to the extent that the
benefits payable under the owner's certificate exceed the benefits
payable under the vehicle insurance,


but any coverage under the owner's certificate except the coverages
described in paragraphs (a) and (b) is void.




(3)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 452/2003, s. 3.]


[am. B.C. Regs. 324/91, s. 19; 452/2003, s. 3; 166/2006, Sch. s. 49;
341/2007, s. 8.]






Repealed




62


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 470/99, s. 1.]






Other insurance




62.1

(1)


This section applies to an accident occurring on or after
May 1, 2021.




(2)

If benefits are provided and evidenced by




(a)

an owner's certificate issued in respect of a vehicle of which an
individual who sustains bodily injury caused by a vehicle




(i)

is an operator or occupant, or




(ii)

is not an operator or occupant of a vehicle and is struck by




(A)

the vehicle, or




(B)

something other than a vehicle because of the vehicle, and




(b)

an owner's certificate issued in respect of a vehicle not involved in
the accident,


the benefits described in paragraph (a) are primary and the benefits
described in paragraph (b) are available only to the extent that the
amount of those benefits exceeds the amount of the benefits described
in paragraph (a).




(3)

If benefits are provided and evidenced by more than one owner's
certificate issued in respect of vehicles other than the vehicle
involved in the accident, benefits are provided only under the owner's
certificate that provides the greatest amount of benefits and if the
amounts are equal, the corporation may determine which owner's
certificate applies.




(4)

If an insured is also insured under vehicle insurance that provides
compensation similar to benefits under Part 10 of the Act or that
provides similar benefits or insurance under similar legislation of
another jurisdiction, then,




(a)

if the accident occurs in British Columbia, the vehicle insurance
issued in respect of a vehicle of which the insured is




(i)

an operator or occupant, or




(ii)

not an operator or occupant of a vehicle and is struck by




(A)

the vehicle, or




(B)

something other than a vehicle because of the vehicle,


is primary, and benefits or compensation similar to benefits under
Part 10 of the Act or similar benefits or insurance under similar
legislation of another jurisdiction is available only to the extent
that the amount that it provides exceeds the amount provided by the
vehicle insurance issued in respect of the vehicle, or




(b)

if the accident occurs outside British Columbia but otherwise within
the area described in section 118 of the Act, the liability of
the corporation for payment of benefits must be determined as if the
provisions of the legislation of that jurisdiction respecting terms,
conditions and priorities of vehicle insurance applied in respect of
benefits.

[en. B.C. Reg. 117/2021, App. 6, s. 8.]





Exclusion from certificate coverage




62.2


A certificate does not evidence coverage under Part 10 of the Act
in relation to the following:




(a)

a non-standard motor vehicle, if the accident does not occur on the
portion of the highway on which the vehicle is authorized to be
operated;




(b)

a trailer that is not an excluded vehicle, if the accident occurs
off-highway;




(c)

an excluded vehicle, if the accident does not occur on the portion of
the highway on which the vehicle is authorized to be operated.

[en. B.C. Reg. 117/2021, App. 6, s. 8.]



Contents
|


Part 1
|


Part 2
|


Part 3
|


Part 4
|

Part 5 |

Part 6
|


Part 7
|


Part 8
|


Part 9
|


Part 10
|


Part 11
|


Part 12
|


Part 13
|


Part 14
|


Part 15
|



Schedules 1 to 10





