





View Complete Statute



Income Tax Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 215



Part 12 â€” BC First-Time New Home Buyers' Bonus





Definitions




151

(1)


In this Part:


"assessment"
means an assessment, reassessment or additional assessment under this
Act, the federal Act or the

Excise Tax Act

(Canada);



"commissioner"

means the Commissioner of Income Tax;



"eligible individual"

means




(a)

an individual who enters into an eligible transaction, if the
individual




(i)

is a first-time new home buyer,




(ii)

is a resident of British Columbia in the eligible taxation year, and




(iii)

filed a return of income for the eligible taxation year, or




(b)

a prescribed individual who enters into an eligible transaction,

but does not include



(c)

an individual who has a spouse or a common-law partner at the time the
eligible transaction is entered into, unless the individual's spouse
or common-law partner is also a person referred to in subparagraphs
(i), (ii) and (iii) of paragraph (a) or a person referred to in
paragraph (b),




(d)

an individual who, together with one or more other individuals, enters
into an eligible transaction, unless all of the individuals are
individuals referred to in paragraph (a) or (b),




(e)

an individual who is confined to a prison or similar institution for a
period of at least 90 days during which period the individual enters
into the agreement of purchase and sale for an eligible transaction,
or




(f)

a prescribed individual;



"eligible taxation year"

, in relation to an individual, means




(a)

the 2011 taxation year, if the individual is resident in British
Columbia at the end of December 31, 2011,




(b)

the 2012 taxation year,




(i)

if the individual is not resident in British Columbia at the end of
December 31, 2011 but is resident in British Columbia at the end of
December 31, 2012,




(ii)

if the individual is an individual referred to in paragraph (c) of the
definition of "eligible individual" and the individual or the
individual's spouse or common-law partner is not resident in British
Columbia at the end of December 31, 2011 but both the individual and
the individual's spouse or common-law partner are resident in British
Columbia at the end of December 31, 2012, or




(iii)

if the individual is an individual referred to in paragraph (d) of the
definition of "eligible individual" and all of the individuals
referred to in that paragraph are not resident in British Columbia at
the end of December 31, 2011 but all are resident in British Columbia
at the end of December 31, 2012, or




(c)

a prescribed year;



"eligible transaction"

means




(a)

an eligible transaction referred to in subsection (2), or




(b)

a prescribed transaction,

but does not include



(c)

an eligible transaction referred to in subsection (2) that is excluded
from this definition by regulation;



"family income"

means, of an individual for a taxation year, the total of the
following:




(a)

the income of the individual for the taxation year;




(b)

if the individual has a spouse or common-law partner at the time the
eligible transaction is entered into, the income of the spouse or
common-law partner for the taxation year;



"federal HST regulation"

means the New Harmonized Value-added Tax System Regulations, No. 2
made under the

Excise Tax Act

(Canada);



"first-time new home buyer"

means an individual who




(a)

has not previously held a registered interest in land or otherwise
owned an interest in a residential complex, whether in British
Columbia or elsewhere, that constituted the individual's primary place
of residence, and




(b)

has not previously obtained a tax credit under this Part;


"individual"
does not include a trust;



"qualifying individual"

means an eligible individual who is the prescribed person or the
person in a prescribed class in respect of prescribed property, within
the meaning of section 256.21 (1) of the

Excise Tax Act

(Canada), for the purpose of the rebate under that section;



"return of income"

means a return of income as defined in paragraph (a) of the definition
of "return of income" in section 122.6 of the federal Act.




(2)

The following are eligible transactions:




(a)

a written agreement of purchase and sale for the purchase of a
building and land that is situated in British Columbia, if the
building and land is a residential complex that is a single unit
residential complex or a residential condominium unit that is acquired
for use as the primary place of residence of an individual and




(i)

the individual




(A)

is a prescribed person under section 41 (3) of the federal HST
regulation who has made an application for a rebate in accordance with
section 41 (4) of that regulation, or




(B)

is a prescribed person under section 41 (3) of the federal HST
regulation with respect to whom an application has been made in
accordance with section 41 (6) of that regulation, and




(ii)

the individual,




(A)

on or after February 21, 2012 and before April 1, 2013, has entered
into the agreement of purchase and sale with respect to the building
and land, and




(B)

subject to subsection (3) of this section, ownership or possession of
the residential complex is transferred to the individual before April
1, 2013;




(b)

a written agreement of purchase and sale for the purchase of a
building or part of a building that is situated in British Columbia,
if the building or part of a building is a residential complex that is
a single unit residential complex or a residential condominium unit
that is acquired for use as the primary place of residence of the
individual and




(i)

the individual




(A)

is a prescribed person under section 43 (2) of the federal HST
regulation who has made an application for a rebate in accordance with
section 43 (3) of that regulation, or




(B)

is a prescribed person under section 43 (2) of the federal HST
regulation with respect to whom an application has been made in
accordance with section 43 (4) of that regulation, and




(ii)

the individual




(A)

has, on or after February 21, 2012 and before April 1, 2013, entered
into the agreement of purchase and sale with respect to the building
or part of the building that forms part of the residential complex,
and




(B)

ownership and possession of the building or part of the building is
transferred to the individual before April 1, 2013;




(c)

an agreement for the acquisition of a share of the capital stock of a
cooperative housing corporation, if an individual has acquired the
share for the purpose of using a residential unit in a residential
complex of the corporation that is situated in British Columbia as the
primary place of residence of the individual and




(i)

the individual is a prescribed person under section 45 (3) of the
federal HST regulation who has made an application for a rebate in
accordance with section 45 (4) of that regulation,




(ii)

the individual has, on or after February 21, 2012 and before April 1,
2013, entered into the agreement to acquire the share with respect to
that place of residence, and




(iii)

ownership of the share transfers before April 1, 2013;




(d)

a written agreement for the acquisition of land that is situated in
British Columbia on which the construction or substantial renovation
of a residential complex, other than a mobile home or floating home,
is undertaken by an individual, or by a person the individual has
engaged to construct or substantially renovate a residential complex,
for use as the primary place of residence of the individual, if




(i)

the individual is a prescribed person under section 46 (3) of the
federal HST regulation who has made an application for a rebate in
accordance with section 46 (6) of that regulation,




(ii)

the individual has, on or after February 21, 2012 and before April 1,
2013, entered into the agreement for the acquisition of land, and




(iii)

the residential complex is substantially completed or occupied as the
primary place of residence before April 1, 2013;




(e)

a written agreement of purchase and sale for the acquisition of a
mobile home or floating home that is, or forms part of, a residential
complex that an individual has acquired for use in British Columbia as
the primary place of residence of the individual if




(i)

the individual has entered into the agreement of purchase and sale
with respect to the mobile home or floating home, and an agreement for
the acquisition of the land, if any, to which the mobile home or
floating home is attached, on or after February 21, 2012 and before
April 1, 2013, and




(ii)

the individual is a prescribed person under section 41 (3) of the
federal HST regulation




(A)

who has made an application for a rebate in accordance with section 41
(4) of that regulation, or with respect to whom an application has
been made in accordance with section 41 (6) of that regulation, and




(B)

ownership or possession of the mobile home or floating home is
transferred to the individual before April 1, 2013, or




(iii)

the individual is a prescribed person under section 43 (2) of the
federal HST regulation




(A)

who has made an application for a rebate in accordance with section 43
(3) of that regulation, or with respect to whom an application has
been made in accordance with section 43 (4) of that regulation, and




(B)

ownership and possession of the mobile home or floating home is
transferred to the individual before April 1, 2013, or




(iv)

the individual is a prescribed person under section 46 (3) of the
federal HST regulation




(A)

who has made an application for a rebate in accordance with subsection
46 (6) of that regulation, and




(B)

the mobile home or floating home is substantially completed or
occupied as the primary place of residence before April 1, 2013.




(3)

If the residential complex referred to in subsection (2) (a) is a
residential condominium unit and possession of that unit is
transferred to an individual before the condominium complex in which
the unit is situated is registered as a condominium, in order to
qualify as an eligible transaction under that subsection,




(a)

the condominium complex must be registered before January 31, 2013, or




(b)

ownership of the unit must be transferred to the individual before
April 1, 2013.




(4)

Subject to subsection (5), for the purposes of this Part, the date on
which an agreement of purchase and sale, an agreement for the
acquisition of a share or an agreement for the acquisition of land is
entered into is deemed to be the date of the signature of the last
party to the agreement.




(5)

If an agreement of purchase and sale, an agreement for the acquisition
of a share or an agreement for the acquisition of land is amended or
replaced by one or more new agreements, the date on which the
agreement is entered into is deemed to be the date of the signature of
the last party to the original agreement before its amendment or
replacement.




(6)

For the purpose of this Part, sections 122.61 (3) (a), 122.61 (3.1)
(a), and 122.7 (12) of the federal Act apply.




(7)

For the purposes of this section, a single unit residential complex
includes a single unit residential complex as defined in section 254
(1) of the

Excise Tax Act

(Canada) as it read on February 21, 2012.




(8)

For the purposes of this section, unless they are at variance with the
definitions in this section, the definitions in Part IX of the

Excise Tax Act

(Canada) as it read on February 21, 2012, and the definitions and
interpretations made by the regulations under that Act as they read on
that date, apply.






Tax credit for first-time new home buyers




152


A qualifying individual may claim a tax credit for an eligible
taxation year equal to the excess, if any, of





A âˆ’ B



where


A

is the lesser of the following amounts:




(a)

the amount of the new housing rebate payable under section
256.21 (1) of the

Excise Tax Act

(Canada) with respect to an eligible transaction, and




(b)
$10Â 000, and


B
is



(a)

20% of the amount, if any, by which the family income of the
individual for the eligible taxation year exceeds $150Â 000,
or




(b)

if a qualifying individual has a spouse or a common-law partner
at the time the individual entered into the eligible
transaction, 10% of the amount, if any, by which the family
income of the individual for the eligible taxation year exceeds
$150Â 000.









Deemed payment of tax




153


An individual who has claimed and is eligible for a tax credit under
this Part for a taxation year is deemed to have paid, at the time
referred to in section 156.1 (4) of the federal Act, as that section
relates to the taxation year, the amount of the credit on account of
the individual's tax payable under this Act.






Application for tax credit




154

(1)


An individual may file with the commissioner an application for a tax
credit under this Part for an eligible taxation year.




(2)

The application must be in the form and contain the information
required by the commissioner.




(3)

In addition to the application, the individual must file with the
application, or within a later period approved by the commissioner,
any other information or records required by the commissioner.




(4)

An application with respect to an eligible transaction must be filed
within the prescribed time for filing an application for the related
new housing rebate under section 256.21 (2) of the

Excise Tax Act

(Canada).




(5)

Despite subsection (4), an application under this section must be
filed on or before March 31, 2015.






Determination of tax credit




155

(1)


The commissioner must examine an application and other information or
records filed under section 154
[application for tax credit]
and determine the amount of any tax credit to which the individual is
entitled under this Part.




(2)

If the commissioner determines the amount of any tax credit for a
taxation year, the commissioner must send to the individual a notice
of determination that specifies the amount of the tax credit for the
taxation year.




(3)

The commissioner




(a)

is not bound by an application or other information or records
supplied by or on behalf of an individual, and




(b)

may determine the amount of a tax credit for a taxation year despite
the supply of the application or other information or records by or on
behalf of the individual.






Determination period




156


The commissioner may determine the amount of any tax credit or penalty
in respect of a taxation year within the following time periods:




(a)

the later of the following:




(i)

three years after the date the notice of determination is sent under
section 155
[determination of tax credit]
;




(ii)

one year after the earlier of the following if an individual is issued
a notice of assessment:




(A)

the day on which the commissioner receives notification from an
individual under section 158
[notice to commissioner of subsequent assessment]
;




(B)

the day on which the commissioner receives notification from the
taxing authority under this Act that the individual has been issued a
notice of assessment;




(iii)

one year after the day on which the commissioner receives notification
from the taxing authority under this Act that the spouse or common-law
partner of an individual has been issued a notice of assessment that
changes an amount relevant to the calculation of the individual's tax
credit under this Part;




(b)

at any time,




(i)

if the individual has made any misrepresentation or committed any
fraud in filing the individual's application or supplying information
under this Part,




(ii)

to carry out the effect of a waiver or cancellation under section 163
[waiver or cancellation of penalty]
, or




(iii)

to carry out the effect of a decision of the Provincial minister under
section 164
[appeal to minister]
.






Determination valid and binding




157


Subject to being varied on appeal or by redetermination, a
determination under this Part is valid and binding despite any error,
defect or omission in the determination or in procedure.






Notice to commissioner of subsequent assessment




158


If an individual is issued a notice of assessment that changes an
amount relevant to the calculation of the individual's tax credit
under this Part, the individual, within 90 days after the notice was
issued or within a later period approved by the commissioner, must




(a)

file with the commissioner a notice in the form and containing the
information required by the commissioner, and




(b)

include with the notice any other information or records required by
the commissioner.






Payment of tax refund




159

(1)


If an overpayment is created as the result of the tax credit, the
Provincial minister must pay, out of the consolidated revenue fund,
the tax refund payable to an individual under this Part in the amount
specified in the notice of determination sent to the individual.




(2)

Despite the

Financial Administration Act

and the Interest on Overdue Accounts Payable Regulation, B.C. Reg.
215/83, no interest is payable with respect to the tax refund referred
to in subsection (1).






Tax refund cannot be attached or assigned




160


A tax refund referred to in section 159 (1)
[payment of tax refund]




(a)

cannot be charged or given as security,




(b)

cannot be assigned except to a prescribed person,




(c)

cannot be garnished or attached, and




(d)

is exempt from execution or seizure.






Imposition of administrative penalty




161

(1)


The commissioner may determine and impose a penalty on an individual
who is liable to a penalty under section 162
[administrative penalties]
.




(2)

If the commissioner imposes a penalty on an individual, the
commissioner must send to the individual a notice of determination
that specifies the amount of the penalty imposed.






Administrative penalties




162

(1)


In this section,
"excess refund"
means the amount by which the tax refund under this Part that would
have been claimed by the individual, if the tax refund had been
calculated on the basis of the information provided in the
application, return, report, notice or other record, exceeds the
individual's tax refund for the taxation year.




(2)

An individual who knowingly or under circumstances amounting to gross
negligence in the carrying out of any duty or obligation imposed under
this Part, makes, or participates in, assents to or acquiesces in the
making of, a statement or omission in an application, return, report,
notice or other record supplied to the commissioner that results in an
excess refund is liable to a penalty equal to the greater of




(a)

$100, and




(b)

100% of the excess refund.




(3)

An individual who fails to file with the commissioner a notice in
accordance with section 158
[notice to commissioner of subsequent assessment]
, is liable, in respect of each failure, to a penalty equal to the
greater of




(a)

$100, and




(b)

$25 for each day after which the notice was required to be filed under
that section, to a maximum of $2 500.






Waiver or cancellation of penalty




163


The commissioner may at any time waive or cancel all or part of any
penalty otherwise payable by an individual under this Part.






Appeal to minister




164

(1)


An individual may appeal the following to the Provincial minister:




(a)

a determination of a tax credit under section 155
[determination of tax credit]
;




(b)

an imposition of a penalty under section 161
[imposition of administrative penalty]
.




(2)

An appeal under subsection (1)




(a)

must be made within 90 days after the date on the notice of
determination in respect of the matter being appealed, and




(b)

must be made by serving a notice of appeal on the Provincial minister
by mailing the notice to that minister.




(3)

The appellant must set out in the notice of appeal a statement of all
material facts and the reasons in support of the appeal.




(4)

On receipt of all relevant information from the commissioner and the
notice of appeal, the Provincial minister must




(a)

confirm, reverse or vary the commissioner's decision or determination,
and




(b)

notify the appellant in writing of the minister's decision.






Liability for recoverable amount




165

(1)


An individual is liable to pay to the government the following:




(a)

the amount by which the tax refund under this Part that was paid to or
on behalf of the individual or set-off under the

Financial Administration Act

exceeds the tax refund that the individual is entitled to receive;




(b)

the amount of any penalties imposed on the individual under section
161
[imposition of administrative penalty]
.




(2)

Despite the

Financial Administration Act

and the Interest on Overdue Accounts Receivable Regulation, B.C. Reg.
214/83, no interest is payable with respect to the amount referred to
in subsection (1).






Collection of recoverable amount




166


Part 5 of the

International Business Activity Act

applies for the purpose of collecting an amount referred to in section
165 (1)
[liability for recoverable amount]
.






Powers of audit




167


Without limiting any provision of this Act or the federal Act, for the
purpose of determining an amount under this Part, the commissioner has
powers equivalent to the federal minister under sections 231 to 231.5,
231.7 and 233 (1) of the federal Act, and for that purpose those
sections apply.






Application of other provisions




168

(1)


A tax credit under this Part is not to be considered in applying any
of the following provisions:




(a)

section 31
[instalment payments: farmers and fishers]
;




(b)

section 32
[instalment payments: other individuals]
;




(c)

section 34
[returns, payments and interest]
;




(d)

section 35
[refund for tax credits]
;




(e)

section 36
[amount on which instalment calculated]
;




(f)

section 37

[failure to file return or corporate return and failure to provide
information]

;




(g)

section 39
[penalty for late or deficient instalments]
;




(h)

section 39.1
[misrepresentation of tax matter by third party]
;




(i)

section 40
[refunds]
.




(2)

The following provisions do not apply for the purposes of this Part,
except to the extent provided in this Part:




(a)

section 1 (8.1)
[interpretation]
;




(b)

section 29
[returns of income and assessments of tax]
;




(c)

section 30
[reassessment and amended return]
;




(d)

section 38

[failure to report income, false statement or omission and burden of
proof on appeal]

;




(e)

section 41
[objections to assessments and extension of time]
;




(f)

section 42
[appeal by taxpayer]
;




(g)

section 43
[reply]
;




(h)

section 44
[procedure]
;




(i)

section 45
[irregularities, extension of time and private hearings]
;




(j)

section 46
[court practice]
;




(k)

section 47

[administration, interest, garnishment and proceedings to collect]

;




(l)

section 49
[debts to Her Majesty]
;




(m)

section 50
[certificates]
;




(n)

section 51
[warrant]
;




(o)

section 52
[acquisition of debtor's property]
;




(p)

section 53
[payment of money seized from tax debtor]
;




(q)

section 54
[seizure of goods]
;




(r)

section 55
[taxpayer leaving Canada or defaulting]
;




(s)

section 59

[inspections, privilege, information returns and corporate
execution]

;




(t)

section 61
[offence and penalty]
;




(u)

section 62
[further offences]
;




(v)

section 70
[payments on account]
.






Administration




169

(1)


Despite any collection agreement, the Provincial minister must
administer and enforce this Part.




(2)

Despite section 69 (3)
[collection agreement]
, the federal minister is not authorized to use, perform or exercise
any of the powers, duties or discretions of the Provincial minister
under this Part.






Delegation of powers




170

(1)


The commissioner may authorize any other officer of the ministry to
perform and exercise duties imposed and powers conferred on the
commissioner by this Part as may in the commissioner's opinion be
conveniently performed or exercised by that officer.




(2)

The performance or exercise by the officer authorized under subsection
(1) of the duties or powers referred to in that subsection is of the
same effect as if they were performed or exercised by the
commissioner.






Power to make regulations




171

(1)


Without limiting section 48 (1) and (2)
[power to make regulations]
, the Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations as follows:




(a)

prescribing individuals or classes of individuals for the purposes of
paragraphs (b) and (f) of the definition of "eligible individual" in
section 151 (1)
[definitions]
;




(b)

prescribing taxation years for the purpose of the definition of
"eligible taxation year" in section 151 (1);




(c)

prescribing transactions or classes of transactions for the purposes
of paragraphs (b) and (c) of the definition of "eligible transaction"
in section 151 (1);




(d)

prescribing persons or classes of persons for the purpose of section
160 (b)
[tax refund cannot be attached or assigned]
;




(e)

defining a word or expression used in this Part.




(2)

A regulation made under this Part may be made retroactive to February
21, 2012 or a later date, and if made retroactive is deemed to have
come into force on the specified date.




Contents
|


Part 1
|


Part 2
|


Part 3
|


Part 4
|


Part 5
|


Part 6
|


Part 7
|


Part 8
|


Part 9
|


Part 10
|


Part 11
|

Part 12 |

Part 13
|


Part 14
|


Part 15
|


Part 16




