





View Complete Statute



Income Tax Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 215



Part 6 — British Columbia Scientific Research and Experimental
Development Tax Credit





Definitions




97


In this Part:



"BC qualified expenditure"

incurred by a qualifying corporation in a taxation year means an
amount that is a qualified expenditure, to the extent that the
expenditure is




(a)

incurred in the taxation year by the corporation in respect of
scientific research and experimental development carried on in British
Columbia,




(b)

incurred after August 31, 1999 and before September 1, 2027, and




(c)

incurred at a time when the corporation has a permanent establishment
in British Columbia,

but does not include



(d)

the corporation's share of an expenditure incurred by a partnership or
by a trust of which the corporation is a beneficiary,




(e)

a type or class of expenditure prescribed by regulation, and




(f)

an expenditure incurred by the corporation in the course of earning
income in the taxation year if any of the income is exempt income, as
defined in section 248 (1) of the federal Act, or is exempt from tax
under Part 1 of the federal Act;



"designated assistance"

means




(a)

any non-government assistance or contract payment, as these terms are
defined in section 127 (9) of the federal Act, and




(b)

government assistance defined in this section;



"eligible repayment"

of a qualifying corporation in a taxation year means the total of all
amounts of designated assistance repaid in the taxation year by the
corporation, or deemed repaid in that taxation year under section 127
(10.8) of the federal Act, to the extent that




(a)

each of the amounts can reasonably be considered a repayment of
designated assistance that, in the taxation year or a previous
taxation year, the corporation received, was entitled to receive or
could reasonably have been expected to receive, in respect of a BC
qualified expenditure, and




(b)

by the operation of paragraph (h) of the definition of "qualified
expenditure" in section 127 (9) of the federal Act, the designated
assistance reduced an amount of a BC qualified expenditure in the
taxation year or a previous taxation year;



"first term shared-use-equipment"

has the same meaning as in section 127 (9) of the federal Act;



"government assistance"

means assistance from a government, municipality or other public
authority, whether as a grant, subsidy, forgivable loan, deduction
from tax, investment allowance or as any other form of assistance, but
does not include




(a)

an amount deemed to have been paid under section 98 (2),




(b)

a deduction under section 99 (2), or




(c)

a deduction under section 127 (5) or (6) of the federal Act;



"partnership amount"

means the amount referred to in section 99.1 (1) (a);



"permanent establishment"

, in relation to a partnership, has the same meaning as in section
8201 of the Income Tax Regulations (Canada) except that section is to
be read without reference to the text after paragraph (e);



"qualified expenditure"

has the same meaning as in the definition of "qualified expenditure"
in section 127 (9) of the federal Act except that in reading section
127 (18) to (20) of the federal Act for the purpose of computing the
amount to be excluded in paragraph (h) of that definition, the
references to government assistance are to be read as references to
government assistance as defined in this section;



"qualifying corporation"

, for a taxation year, means a corporation that has a permanent
establishment in British Columbia at any time during that taxation
year, but does not include a corporation that




(a)

is exempt from tax under section 27,




(b)

is controlled directly or indirectly in any manner whatever by one or
more persons all or part of whose taxable income is exempt from tax
under section 27 of this Act or under Part 1 of the federal Act,




(c)

is an employee venture capital corporation registered under section 8
of the

Employee Investment Act

,




(d)

is a small business venture capital corporation registered under
section 3 of the

Small Business Venture Capital Act

, or




(e)

is of a type or class of corporation prescribed by regulation;



"scientific research and experimental development"

has the same meaning as in section 248 (1) of the federal Act;



"second term shared-use-equipment"

has the same meaning as in section 127 (9) of the federal Act;



"SR&ED qualified BC expenditure"

of a qualifying corporation in a taxation year means the total of the
following:




(a)

the total of all BC qualified expenditures incurred by the corporation
in the taxation year;




(b)

the corporation's eligible repayment for that taxation year.






Interpretation — taxation year of partnerships




97.1


Sections 102.11, 102.4 and 102.6 apply to a partnership as if the
partnership's fiscal period were its taxation year.






Refundable tax credit available




98

(1)


Subject to section 103, a qualifying corporation that is a
Canadian-controlled private corporation carrying on scientific
research and experimental development in British Columbia during a
taxation year may claim a tax credit for the taxation year under this
Part equal to 10% of the lesser of




(a)

the corporation's SR&ED qualified BC expenditure for the taxation
year, and




(b)

the corporation's expenditure limit as defined in section 127 (10.2)
of the federal Act for the taxation year.




(2)

A corporation that is eligible for and has claimed a tax credit under
subsection (1) for a taxation year is deemed to have paid, at the time
referred to in section 157 (1) (b) of the federal Act as that section
relates to the taxation year, the amount of that credit on account of
its tax payable under this Act.






Non-refundable tax credit available




99

(1)


[Repealed 2007-2-34.]




(2)

Subject to section 103, a qualifying corporation may deduct from its
tax otherwise payable for a taxation year ending after August 31,
1999, an amount equal to the lesser of




(a)

the amount determined at the end of the taxation year under subsection
(3), and




(b)

the amount of tax that would otherwise be payable but for that credit.




(3)

The amount eligible for deduction under subsection (2) (a) at the end
of the taxation year is an amount equal to the total of the following:




(a)

the corporation's annual non-refundable tax credit for that taxation
year;




(b)

the total of the corporation's annual non-refundable tax credits for
the 10 taxation years immediately preceding, less any of those amounts
that were previously deducted by the corporation under subsection (2);




(c)

the total of the corporation's annual non-refundable tax credits for
the 3 taxation years immediately following, less any of those amounts
that were previously deductible by the corporation under subsection
(2) for the subsequent year.




(3.1)

A qualifying corporation's annual non-refundable tax credit for a
taxation year is the amount by which the total of




(a)

10% of the corporation's SR&ED qualified BC expenditure in the
taxation year, and




(b)

the amount equal to the total of all amounts each of which is an
appropriate portion determined under section 99.1 in respect of a
partnership of which the corporation was a member in the taxation year
as provided for in that section,

exceeds the total of



(c)

any amount deemed to have been paid under section 98 (2) for that year
by the corporation, and




(d)

any amount renounced under section 100 for that year by the
corporation.




(4)

If the qualifying corporation is a corporation described in paragraph
(j) or (k) of the definition of "investment tax credit" in section 127
(9) of the federal Act, the net amount determined under subsection (3)
(b) and (c) of this section must be reduced by the proportion
described in section 127 (9.1) (d) or (9.2) (d) of the federal Act, as
the case may be.






Credit amount in respect of a partnership




99.1

(1)


If in a taxation year a qualifying corporation is a member of a
partnership, other than a specified member as defined in section 248
(1) of the federal Act, the qualifying corporation may claim for the
taxation year the appropriate portion of the amount by which




(a)

the amount equal to 10% of the SR&ED qualified BC expenditure of
the partnership for its taxation year ending in the taxation year of
the corporation

exceeds the total of



(b)

the amount equal to the total of all amounts each of which is an
amount determined under section 102.11 (2) for the partnership for its
taxation year ending in the taxation year of the corporation, and




(c)

the amount equal to the total of all amounts each of which is an
amount determined under section 102.4 (2) for the partnership for its
taxation year ending in the taxation year of the corporation.




(2)

For the purpose of determining the amount that a qualifying
corporation may claim under subsection (1) in respect of a
partnership, the following rules apply:




(a)

in section 97
[definitions]
, in the definitions of "BC qualified expenditure", "eligible
repayment" and "SR&ED qualified BC expenditure",




(i)

the references to "qualifying corporation" and "corporation" are to be
read as "partnership", and




(ii)

the references to "corporation's" are to be read as "partnership's";




(b)

in section 97, in the definition of "BC qualified expenditure",




(i)

the reference in paragraph (b) to "August 31, 1999" is to be read as
"February 20, 2007", and




(ii)

paragraph (d) is to be read without reference to "by a partnership
or";




(c)

the amount referred to in subsection (1) (a) of this section is
determined as if




(i)

the partnership were a person,




(ii)

its fiscal period were its taxation year, and




(iii)

its filing-due date were its filing-due date for the year if it were a
corporation;




(d)

the appropriate portion is that portion that may reasonably be
considered to be the qualifying corporation's share of the amount
determined under subsection (1);




(e)

if the qualifying corporation is at any time in a taxation year a
member of a particular partnership that is a member of another
partnership,




(i)

the qualifying corporation is deemed to be a member of the other
partnership, and




(ii)

despite paragraph (d), the qualifying corporation's appropriate
portion of the amount determined under subsection (1) for the other
partnership is deemed to equal that portion that may reasonably be
considered to be that share of the amount determined under subsection
(1) to which the qualifying corporation is directly or indirectly
entitled.






Renunciation of tax credit




100

(1)


A corporation may renounce all or part of the annual non-refundable
tax credit under section 99 (3.1) (a) in respect of the corporation's
SR&ED qualified BC expenditure incurred during a taxation year.




(2)

If the corporation renounces its entitlement to all or part of the tax
credit under subsection (1), the corporation is deemed for all
purposes never to have been entitled to receive, or have had
reasonable expectation of receiving, that credit or part of it.






Amalgamations and wind ups




101

(1)


If, after August 31, 1999, 2 or more corporations amalgamate within
the meaning of section 87 (1) of the federal Act, the new corporation
is deemed, for the purposes of this Part, to be the continuation of
each of its predecessor corporations.




(2)

If, after August 31, 1999, a subsidiary corporation is wound up within
the meaning of section 88 (1) of the federal Act, the parent
corporation is deemed, for the purposes of this Part, to be the
continuation of the subsidiary corporation.






No credit available if section 17 deduction made




102


A corporation that has made a deduction in accordance with section 17
for a taxation year may not claim or deduct a tax credit under this
Part for the same taxation year.






Recapture of tax credit corporations




102.1

(1)


This section applies to a qualifying corporation if




(a)

the corporation acquired a particular property and the cost, or a
portion of the cost, of the property




(i)

was a BC qualified expenditure of the corporation in a taxation year,
or




(ii)

would be a BC qualified expenditure of the corporation in a taxation
year if, for the purposes of the definition of "qualified expenditure"
in section 97 of this Act, the federal Act were read without reference
to section 127 (26) of the federal Act,




(b)

the cost, or portion of the cost, of the property is an amount that




(i)

was included in computing the corporation's tax credit under this
Part, or




(ii)

would be included in computing the corporation's tax credit under this
Part if, for the purposes of the definition of "qualified expenditure"
in section 97 of this Act, the federal Act were read without reference
to section 127 (26) of the federal Act, and




(c)

after March 31, 2000 and within 10 taxation years of the acquisition
described in paragraph (a), the corporation converts to commercial
use, or disposes of without having previously converted to commercial
use, that property or another property that incorporates that
property.




(2)

The qualifying corporation must add the lesser of the following to its
tax otherwise payable for the taxation year in which the conversion or
disposition described in subsection (1) (c) occurs:




(a)

the amount




(i)

included in the corporation's tax credit under this Part in respect of
the particular property, or




(ii)

that would be included in the corporation's tax credit under this Part
in respect of the particular property if, for the purposes of the
definition of "qualified expenditure" in section 97 of this Act, the
federal Act were read without reference to section 127 (26) of the
federal Act;




(b)

the amount determined under subsection (2.1).




(2.1)

The amount for the purpose of subsection (2) (b) is the product
obtained by multiplying the percentage applied in computing the tax
credit referred to in subsection (1) (b) by,




(a)

in the case where the particular property or the property that
incorporates the particular property is disposed of to a person who
deals at arm's length with the corporation,




(i)

the proceeds of disposition of the property, if the property disposed
of




(A)

is the particular property and is neither first term
shared-use-equipment nor second term shared-use-equipment, or




(B)

is the property that incorporates the particular property,




(ii)

25% of the proceeds of disposition of the property, if the property
disposed of is the particular property, is first term
shared-use-equipment and is not second term shared-use-equipment, and




(iii)

50% of the proceeds of disposition of the property, if the property
disposed of is the particular property and is second term
shared-use-equipment, and




(b)

in the case where the particular property or the property that
incorporates the particular property is converted to commercial use or
is disposed of to a person who does not deal at arm's length with the
corporation,




(i)

the fair market value of the property at the time of its conversion or
disposition, if the property converted or disposed of




(A)

is the particular property and is neither first term
shared-use-equipment nor second term shared-use-equipment, or




(B)

is the property that incorporates the particular property,




(ii)

25% of the fair market value of the property at the time of its
conversion or disposition, if the property converted or disposed of is
the particular property, is first term shared-use-equipment and is not
second term shared-use-equipment, and




(iii)

50% of the fair market value of the property at the time of its
conversion or disposition, if the property converted or disposed of is
the particular property and is second term shared-use-equipment.




(3)

The cost of the property under subsection (1) (a) and (b)




(a)

must not exceed the amount paid by the corporation to acquire that
property from a transferor, and




(b)

must not include any amounts paid by the corporation to maintain,
modify or transform that property.






Recapture of amounts — partnership




102.11

(1)


This section applies to a partnership if




(a)

the partnership acquired a particular property and the cost of the
property was a BC qualified expenditure of the partnership in a
taxation year,




(b)

the cost of the property is an amount that was included in computing
the partnership amount in respect of the partnership for the taxation
year referred to in paragraph (a), and




(c)

in the taxation year and after February 20, 2007, and within 10
taxation years of the acquisition described in paragraph (a), the
partnership converts to commercial use, or disposes of without having
previously converted to commercial use, that property or another
property that incorporates that property.




(2)

For the taxation year in which the conversion or disposition described
in subsection (1) (c) occurs, the amount determined for the
partnership for the purpose of section 99.1 (1) (b) is, subject to
section 102.6 (2), the lesser of the following:




(a)

the amount included in respect of the property in computing the
partnership amount referred to in subsection (1) (b) of this section;




(b)

an amount equal to,




(i)

if that property or the property that incorporates that property is
disposed of to a person who deals at arm's length with the
partnership, the proceeds of disposition of that property multiplied
by the percentage that was applied in computing the partnership amount
referred to in subsection (1) (b) of this section, or




(ii)

in any other case, the fair market value at the time of conversion or
disposition of that property or the property that incorporates that
property multiplied by the percentage that was applied in computing
the partnership amount referred to in subsection (1) (b) of this
section.




(3)

The cost of the property under subsection (1) (a) and (b)




(a)

must not exceed the amount paid by the partnership to acquire that
property from a transferor, and




(b)

must not include any amounts paid by the partnership to maintain,
modify or transform that property.






Recapture rules do not apply to specified non-arm's length transfers




102.2


Sections 102.1, 102.11, 102.3 and 102.4 do not apply to a qualifying
corporation or partnership (in this section, the "transferor") that
disposes of a property to a qualifying corporation or partnership (in
this section and sections 102.3 and 102.4, the "purchaser") that does
not deal at arm's length with the transferor, if the purchaser
acquired the property in circumstances where the cost of the property
to the purchaser would have been an expenditure of the purchaser
described in section 37 (8) (a) (ii) (A) (III) or (B) (III) of the
federal Act, as that section read on March 29, 2012, but for section
2902 (b) (iii) of the federal regulations.






Recapture of tax credit from non-arm's length purchasers —
corporations




102.3

(1)


This section applies to a purchaser that is a qualifying corporation
if, at any particular time in a taxation year and after March 31,
2000, the purchaser converts to commercial use, or disposes of without
having previously converted to commercial use, a property




(a)

that




(i)

was acquired by the purchaser in circumstances described in section
102.2, or




(ii)

incorporates other property acquired by the purchaser in those
circumstances, and




(b)

that was first acquired, or that incorporates other property that was
first acquired, by a corporation or partnership (in this section, the
"original user") in the original user's taxation year that includes
the particular time, assuming that the original user had such a
taxation year, or in any of the original user's 10 preceding taxation
years.




(2)

The purchaser must add to its tax otherwise payable for the taxation
year the lesser of the following:




(a)

the amount,




(i)

if the original user is a qualifying corporation, included in the
original user's tax credit under this Part in respect of the property,
or




(ii)

if the original user is a partnership, included in computing the
original user's partnership amount in respect of the property;




(b)

an amount equal to




(i)

if that property or the property that incorporates that property is
disposed of to a person who deals at arm's length with the purchaser,
the proceeds of disposition of that property multiplied by the
percentage applied by the original user in computing its tax credit
under this Part, or




(ii)

in any other case, the fair market value at the time of conversion or
disposition of that property or the property that incorporates that
property multiplied by the percentage applied by the original user in
computing its tax credit under this Part.






Recapture of amounts from non-arm's length purchasers — partnerships




102.4

(1)


This section applies to a purchaser that is a partnership if, at any
particular time in a taxation year and after February 20, 2007, the
purchaser converts to commercial use, or disposes of without having
previously converted to commercial use, a property




(a)

that




(i)

was acquired by the purchaser in circumstances described in section
102.2, or




(ii)

incorporates other property acquired by the purchaser in those
circumstances, and




(b)

that was first acquired, or that incorporates other property that was
first acquired, by a corporation or partnership (in this section, the
"original user") with which the purchaser did not deal at arm's length
at the time at which the purchaser acquired the property, in the
original user's taxation year that includes the particular time,
assuming that the original user had such a taxation year, or in any of
the original user's 10 preceding taxation years.




(2)

In respect of the partnership that is the purchaser under subsection
(1), for the purpose of section 99.1 (1) (c), the amount determined
for the partnership for the taxation year is the lesser of the
following:




(a)

the amount,




(i)

if the original user is a qualifying corporation, included in the
original user's tax credit under this Part in respect of the property,
or




(ii)

if the original user is a partnership, included in computing the
original user's partnership amount in respect of the property;




(b)

an amount equal to,




(i)

if that property or the property that incorporates that property is
disposed of to a person who deals at arm's length with the purchaser,
the proceeds of disposition of that property multiplied by the
percentage applied by the original user,




(A)

if the original user is a qualifying corporation, in computing its tax
credit under this Part, or




(B)

if the original user is a partnership, in computing its partnership
amount, or




(ii)

in any other case, the fair market value at the time of conversion or
disposition of that property or the property that incorporates that
property multiplied by the percentage applied by the original user,




(A)

if the original user is a qualifying corporation, in computing its tax
credit under this Part, or




(B)

if the original user is a partnership, in computing its partnership
amount.






Recapture of tax credit by corporation in respect of a partnership




102.5

(1)


This section applies to a qualifying corporation for a taxation year
if




(a)

the corporation is a member of a partnership in the taxation year, and




(b)

the total of




(i)

the amount equal to the total of all amounts each of which is an
amount determined under section 102.11 (2) in respect of a property of
the partnership, and




(ii)

the amount equal to the total of all amounts each of which is an
amount determined under section 102.4 (2) in respect of a property of
the partnership,


exceeds the amount computed as the partnership amount in respect of
the partnership.




(2)

The qualifying corporation must add to its tax otherwise payable for
the taxation year the portion of the excess under subsection (1) (b)
that can reasonably be considered to be the qualifying corporation's
share of the excess.






Recapture of amounts — tiered partnership




102.6

(1)


This section applies to a partnership for a taxation year if




(a)

a qualifying corporation is a member of the partnership,




(b)

section 102.11 applies to the partnership for the taxation year,




(c)

the partnership is a member of another partnership in the taxation
year, and




(d)

an amount would be added to the partnership's tax payable under
section 102.5 for the taxation year if the partnership were a
qualifying corporation.




(2)

The amount referred to in subsection (1) (d) is deemed to be the
lesser of the amounts described in section 102.11 (2) (a) and (b) in
respect of a property of the partnership for the taxation year.






Filing requirements




103

(1)


A qualifying corporation that wishes to claim a tax credit under this
Part in respect of a taxation year must file, with the return of
income filed by the corporation under section 29 for that taxation
year, an application for the tax credit in the form, and containing
the information, required by the Commissioner of Income Tax.




(2)

A qualifying corporation is not entitled to a tax credit under this
Part in respect of a taxation year unless, within 18 months after the
end of the taxation year, the corporation files the form containing
the information required under subsection (1).




(3)

The time limit of 18 months referred to in subsection (2) is
extended by 6 months or until December 31, 2020, whichever
extension is shorter, if the time limit would otherwise expire during
the period beginning on March 13, 2020 and ending on
December 30, 2020.




Contents
|


Part 1
|


Part 2
|


Part 3
|


Part 4
|


Part 5
|

Part 6 |

Part 7
|


Part 8
|


Part 9
|


Part 10
|


Part 11
|


Part 12
|


Part 13
|


Part 14
|


Part 15
|


Part 16




