





View Complete Statute



Workers Compensation Act
[RSBC 2019] CHAPTER 1


Deposited with Clerk of the Legislative Assembly on August 23, 2019




[Note: the dollar amounts shown in sections 94, 95, 102, 167, 169,
170 to 175, 191, 194, 208, 213, 225, 231, 236, 251 and 349 may not
reflect the current consumer price index adjustments referred to in
section 333, and the maximum wage rate shown in section
209 (2) and 227 may not be current.




Current information may be found on the Workers' Compensation Board
website at
www.worksafebc.com/en/law-policy/claims-rehabilitation/claims-related-consumer-price-index
or may be obtained by calling your WorkSafeBC regional office.]





Part 8 — Workers' Compensation Board and General Matters



Division 1 — Workers' Compensation Board and Board of Directors





Workers' Compensation Board and its board of directors




316

(1)


The Workers' Compensation Board is continued as a corporation.




(2)

The board of directors of the Workers' Compensation Board consists of




(a)

9 voting directors appointed by the Lieutenant Governor in Council in
accordance with section 317, and




(b)

the president appointed by the board of directors under section 323,
who is a non-voting director.






Voting directors




317

(1)


The voting directors are to be appointed by the Lieutenant Governor in
Council as follows:




(a)

one director, representative of the public interest, who is chair;




(b)

2 additional directors, representative of the public interest;




(c)

one director, representative of workers;




(d)

one director, representative of employers;




(e)

one director who is or was a professional in the area of occupational
health and safety;




(f)

one director who is or was a professional in the area of law or law
enforcement;




(g)

one director who at the time of appointment is a professional
providing health care or rehabilitation services to persons with
disabilities;




(h)

one director who at the time of appointment is an actuary.




(2)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council must make selections for an
appointment under this section in accordance with the following:




(a)

for appointment under subsection (1) (c), selection of a person from a
list of at least 3 persons, each of whom is nominated by one or more
organizations that represent workers or classes of workers;




(b)

for appointment under subsection (1) (d), selection of a person from a
list of at least 3 persons, each of whom is nominated by one or more
organizations that represent employers or classes of employers;




(c)

for appointment under subsection (1) (e), selection of a person from a
list of at least 3 persons, each of whom is nominated by one or more
organizations that provide occupational health and safety services;




(d)

for appointment under subsection (1) (f), selection of a person from a
list of at least 3 persons, each of whom is nominated by one or more
organizations for professionals in law or law enforcement;




(e)

for appointment under subsection (1) (g), selection of a person from a
list of at least 3 persons, each of whom is nominated by one or more
organizations that provide health care or rehabilitation services to
persons with disabilities;




(f)

for appointment under subsection (1) (h), selection of a person from a
list of at least 3 persons, each of whom is nominated by one or more
professional organizations for actuaries.




(3)

In relation to an appointment under subsection (1) (f),
"law enforcement"
means any of the following:




(a)

policing, including criminal intelligence operations;




(b)

investigations that lead or could lead to a penalty or sanction being
imposed;




(c)

proceedings that lead or could lead to a penalty or sanction being
imposed.






Term of office and remuneration for voting directors




318

(1)


Each voting director, other than the chair, holds office for a term of
up to 3 years, as set by the Lieutenant Governor in Council.




(2)

The chair holds office for a term of up to 5 years, as set by the
Lieutenant Governor in Council.




(3)

A voting director, other than the chair, must not be appointed for a
continuous period of more than 6 years.




(4)

The chair may not be appointed for a continuous period of more than 10
years.




(5)

The Board must pay voting directors




(a)

remuneration in an amount determined by the Lieutenant Governor in
Council, and




(b)

reasonable travel and out-of-pocket expenses necessarily incurred in
discharging their duties.






Policies of the board of directors




319


The board of directors must set and revise as necessary the policies
of the board of directors, including policies respecting occupational
health and safety, compensation, rehabilitation and assessment.






General responsibilities of the board of directors




320

(1)


The board of directors must set and supervise the direction of the
Board.




(2)

Without restricting subsection (1), the board of directors is
responsible for the following:




(a)

subject to this Act, selecting the president and determining the
president's functions;




(b)

approving the operating and capital budgets of the Board;




(c)

establishing policies and accounting systems to ensure adequate
funding of the accident fund;




(d)

approving major programs and expenditures of the Board;




(e)

approving the investment of funds of the Board in accordance with the
requirements imposed under this Act;




(f)

planning for the future of the Board;




(g)

subject to this Act, enacting bylaws and passing resolutions




(i)

for the conduct of the business of the Board, and




(ii)

for the functions of the board of directors,


including enacting bylaws respecting the manner in which the policies
of the board of directors are to be published.




(3)

The board of directors may establish committees and give directions to
those committees.




(4)

The board of directors may authorize the Board to acquire and dispose
of land.






Meetings and other proceedings of the board of directors




321

(1)


The chair must preside at meetings of the board of directors.




(2)

Meetings of the board of directors must be held at the call of the
chair at any place in British Columbia that the chair determines.




(3)

A majority of the voting directors in office constitutes a quorum at a
meeting of the board of directors.




(4)

A vacancy on the board of directors does not impair the right of the
other directors to act.




(5)

The chair may designate a director appointed under section 317 (1) (b)
[representative of the public interest]
to act in the chair's place during the chair's temporary absence, and
the designated director has the power and authority of the chair when
acting in the chair's place.






Standard of care obligations for directors




322

(1)


A director, when exercising the powers and performing the duties and
functions as a member of the board of directors, must




(a)

act honestly and in good faith,




(b)

act with a view to the best interests and objectives of the workers'
compensation system,




(c)

exercise the care, diligence and skill that a reasonably prudent
individual would exercise in comparable circumstances, and




(d)

act in a financially responsible and accountable manner.




(2)

This section is in addition to, and not in derogation of, any
enactment or rule of law or equity relating to the duties or
liabilities of members of the board of directors.






Board president appointment and responsibilities




323

(1)


The board of directors must appoint a person to be president of the
Board.




(2)

The president is responsible to the board of directors and




(a)

must attend and participate as a non-voting director at meetings of
the board of directors,




(b)

must implement the policies of the board of directors with respect to
the administration of the Board and this Act,




(c)

is responsible for all functions related to staff, other than the
staff appointed by and reporting directly to the board of directors,
and




(d)

must carry out other duties and functions assigned to the president by
the board of directors.




(3)

Subject to this Act, the board of directors may enter into a contract
with the president providing for the remuneration of the president and
setting out the terms and conditions of the president's appointment.






Delegation by board of directors or president




324

(1)


The board of directors may delegate in writing a power or duty of the
board of directors to the president of the Board or another officer of
the Board, and may impose limitations or conditions on the delegate's
exercise of a power or performance of a duty.




(2)

The president may delegate in writing any of the president's powers
and duties to another officer of the Board or another person, and may
impose limitations or conditions on the delegate's exercise of a power
or performance of a duty.




Division 2 — Board Administration





Annual service plan




325

(1)


On or before April 30 of each year, the Board must provide the
minister with a service plan that addresses the 3-year period starting
on January 1 of that year and does the following:




(a)

sets out the Board's priorities;




(b)

identifies specific objectives and performance measures for the Board;




(c)

provides a fiscal forecast for the Board, including a statement of all
material assumptions and policy decisions underlying the forecast;




(d)

compares actual results of the previous year with the expected results
identified in the previous year's service plan;




(e)

presents other information that the Board considers appropriate.




(2)

After receiving the annual service plan, the minister must promptly




(a)

lay the plan before the Legislative Assembly, if the Legislative
Assembly is in session, or




(b)

file the plan with the Clerk of the Legislative Assembly, if the
Legislative Assembly is not in session.






Annual report to minister




326

(1)


On or before April 30 of each year, the Board must make to the
minister a report of the Board's transactions during the last
preceding calendar year, and the report must include any other
information the minister specifies.




(2)

The annual report under this section must include




(a)

a review of the Board's activities under Part 2
[Occupational Health and Safety]
for the year, including financial, statistical and performance
information, and




(b)

an evaluation of the occupational health and safety record of
workplaces in British Columbia.




(3)

After receiving the annual report, the minister must promptly




(a)

lay the report before the Legislative Assembly, if the Legislative
Assembly is in session, or




(b)

file the report with the Clerk of the Legislative Assembly, if the
Legislative Assembly is not in session.






Financial management




327

(1)


The Board must establish and maintain an accounting system
satisfactory to the Minister of Finance, and that minister may, at any
time, inspect the accounting records of the Board and advise the Board
on all matters respecting its accounts and other financial matters.




(2)

Subject to the supervision and direction of the Minister of Finance,
the Board must cause all money in the accident fund in excess of
current requirements to be invested and reinvested and, in doing this,
must exercise the care, skill, diligence and judgment that a prudent
investor would exercise in making investments.






Audit requirement




328

(1)


Unless the Auditor General is appointed in accordance with the

Auditor General Act

as the auditor of the Board, the Board must appoint an auditor to
audit the accounts of the Board at least once each year.




(2)

The remuneration of an auditor for auditing the accounts of the Board
must be paid by the Board.




(3)

For the purpose of an audit under this section, the Lieutenant
Governor in Council may appoint a competent person to make and report
on an actuarial valuation of the assets and liabilities of the
accident fund, and the remuneration of that person to make and report
on the valuation must be paid by the Board.






Board may appoint officers and other employees




329

(1)


The Board may appoint the officers and other employees it considers
necessary to carry out the business and operations of the Board and
may establish their duties and determine their remuneration.




(2)

A person appointed under this section holds office during the pleasure
of the Board.




(3)

The

Labour Relations Code

does not apply to the following:




(a)

a person employed




(i)

for the purposes of policy development or providing policy advice, and




(ii)

in the policy and regulation development division of the Board;




(b)

a person employed




(i)

for the purpose of investigating the conduct of persons working for
the Board, and




(ii)

as an investigator in the special investigations branch of the Board.






Board must appoint review officers




330

(1)


The Board must appoint a chief review officer and one or more review
officers to conduct reviews under Part 6
[Review of Board Decisions]
.




(2)

The

Labour Relations Code

does not apply to a chief review officer or a review officer.






Superannuation fund




331

(1)


The Board may




(a)

establish and maintain a fund, to be known as the superannuation fund,
for the payment of superannuation allowances to the Board's employees
or of allowances on the disability or death of its employees, by
contributions from the employees of the Board and from the accident
fund, and




(b)

determine the amounts of superannuation or other allowances and the
conditions on which they may be paid and the persons to whom they may
be paid.




(2)

The Board may use the superannuation fund to purchase superannuation
allowances for its employees from the Crown in right of Canada, from
the Crown in right of British Columbia or from an insurer.




(3)

The costs of administering the superannuation fund are part of the
cost of the administration of this Act.




(4)

Despite any other Act, the matters respecting the establishment and
maintenance of the superannuation fund under this section or payment
of superannuation allowances to employees or allowances on the
disability or death of employees, including the following, must not be
the subject of a collective agreement between the Board and its
employees:




(a)

contributions to the fund by the Board and its employees;




(b)

amounts of superannuation or other allowances;




(c)

conditions on which and the persons to whom superannuation or other
allowances may be paid.






Protection for Board, directors, officers and employees




332


An action may not be maintained or brought against the Board or a
director, officer or employee of the Board in respect of any act,
omission or decision




(a)

that was within the jurisdiction of the Board, or




(b)

that the Board, director, officer or employee believed was within the
jurisdiction of the Board.




Division 3 — Other Board Powers and Responsibilities





Annual adjustment of dollar amounts referred to in Act




333

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), the Board must adjust every dollar amount
referred to in this Act on January 1 of each year by applying the
percentage change in the consumer price index for Canada, for all
items, for the 12-month period ending on October 31 of the previous
year.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply to a dollar amount referred to in the
following:




(a)

section 209 (2)
[maximum wage rate for applicable year]
;




(b)

section 227
[compensation for workers injured before 1986]
.




(3)

On the Board making an adjustment of a dollar amount under subsection
(1), the dollar amount referred to in this Act is deemed to be
amended.




(4)

Adjustments under subsection (1) must be published in the Gazette.






Annual adjustment of periodic payment amounts




334

(1)


On or before January 1 of each year, the Board must




(a)

determine the percentage change in the consumer price index for
Canada, for all items, for the 12-month period ending on
October 31 of the previous year, and




(b)

if the percentage change under paragraph (a) is greater than 4%,
determine a percentage in accordance with subsection (2).




(2)

The percentage determined by the Board under subsection (1) (b)
must be at least 4% and must not be greater than the percentage
change determined under subsection (1) (a).




(3)

On January 1 of each year, the Board must adjust, in accordance with
subsection (4), the periodic payments of compensation to be paid in
the calendar year in respect of an injury or death occurring more than
12 months before the date of the adjustment.




(4)

For the purposes of subsection (3), the periodic payments of
compensation must be adjusted as follows:




(a)

if the percentage change determined under subsection (1) (a) is
negative, the adjustment is 0%;




(b)

if the percentage change determined under subsection (1) (a) is
greater than 4%, the adjustment is equal to the percentage
determined under subsection (1) (b);




(c)

in any other case, the adjustment is the percentage change determined
under subsection (1) (a).




(5)

If the Board starts or restarts periodic payments of compensation for
an injury or a death that occurred more than 12 months before the
payments are started or restarted, the Board must, under this section,
adjust all periodic payments as if the payments were made continuously
from the date of injury or death.






Interjurisdictional agreements and arrangements




335

(1)


The Board may enter into agreements or make arrangements with Canada,
a province or a territory, or with the appropriate authority of
Canada, a province or a territory, respecting the following:




(a)

administrative cooperation and assistance between jurisdictions in all
matters under this Act and corresponding legislation in other
jurisdictions;




(b)

the provision of compensation, rehabilitation and health care to
workers in accordance with the standards established under this Act or
corresponding legislation in other jurisdictions;




(c)

avoidance of duplication of assessments on workers' earnings.




(2)

An agreement or arrangement under this section may




(a)

waive or modify a residence or exposure requirement for eligibility
for compensation, rehabilitation or health care, or




(b)

provide for payment to an appropriate authority of Canada or an
appropriate authority of a province or a territory for compensation,
rehabilitation costs or health care costs paid by the authority.






Exercise of powers under federal Acts or agreements




336


The Board may exercise any power or duty conferred or imposed on it by
or under a statute of Canada or an agreement between Canada and
British Columbia.






Information respecting Board activities




337


The Board must publish and distribute among employers, workers and the
general public the information respecting the business transacted by
the Board that it considers may be useful.




Division 4 — Board Practices, Procedures and Related Matters





Board practices and procedures




338


The Board may establish practices and procedures for carrying out its
responsibilities under this Act, including specifying time periods
within which certain steps must be taken and the consequences for
failing to comply within those time periods.






Board decision making




339

(1)


The Board may consider all questions of fact and law arising in a
case, but the Board is not bound by legal precedent.




(2)

The Board must make its decision based on the merits and justice of
the case, but in doing this the Board must apply the policies of the
board of directors that are applicable in that case.




(3)

If the Board is making a decision respecting the compensation or
rehabilitation of a worker and the evidence supporting different
findings on an issue is evenly weighted in that case, the Board must
resolve that issue in a manner that favours the worker.






Protection of Board proceedings




340


Proceedings by or before the Board must not be




(a)

restrained by injunction, prohibition or other process or proceeding
in any court, or




(b)

removed by certiorari or otherwise into any court.






Authority to act on advice of officers and persons conducting
inquiries




341


The Board may act




(a)

on the report of any of its officers, and




(b)

in relation to an inquiry under this Part, on the report of the person
making the inquiry as to the result of that inquiry.






Authority to compel witnesses and production of evidence




342

(1)


The Board has the same powers as the Supreme Court




(a)

to compel the attendance of witnesses and examine them under oath, and




(b)

to compel the production and inspection of records and things.




(2)

The Board may require depositions of witnesses residing in or out of
British Columbia to be taken before a person appointed by the Board
and in a manner similar to that established by the Rules of the
Supreme Court for the taking of depositions in that court.






Authority to award costs in relation to contested matters




343

(1)


This section applies in relation to a contested claim for compensation
or any other contested matter.




(2)

The Board may award to the successful party an amount the Board
considers reasonable to meet the expenses to which the party has been
put by reason of or incidental to contesting the matter.




(3)

An order of the Board for payment by an employer or worker of an
amount awarded under this section, when filed in the manner provided
for the filing of certificates under section 264 (2)
[collection of unpaid assessment]
, becomes a judgment of the court in which the order is filed and may
be enforced accordingly.






Service of orders and other documents




344

(1)


A document that must be served on or sent to a person under this Act
may be




(a)

personally served on the person,




(b)

mailed to the person's last known address, or




(c)

transmitted electronically, by fax or otherwise, to the address or
number requested by the person.




(2)

If a document is mailed, the document is deemed to have been received
8 days after it was mailed.




(3)

If a document is transmitted electronically, the document is deemed to
have been received when the person transmitting the document receives
an electronic acknowledgement of the transmission.




(4)

If, through absence, accident, illness or other cause beyond the
party's control, a party who acts in good faith does not receive the
copy until a later date than the date provided under subsection (2) or
(3), that subsection does not apply.




(5)

If a notice or document is not served in accordance with this section,
the proceeding is not invalidated if




(a)

the contents of the notice or document were known by the person to be
served within the time allowed for service,




(b)

the person to be served consents, or




(c)

the failure to serve does not result in prejudice to the person or any
resulting prejudice can be satisfactorily addressed by an adjournment
or other means.




(6)

If, in relation to a proceeding under Part 7
[Appeals to Appeal Tribunal]
, the appeal tribunal is of the opinion that, because there are so
many parties to the proceeding or for any other reason, it is
impracticable to give notice of a hearing to a party by a method
referred to in subsection (1), the appeal tribunal may give notice of
a hearing by public advertisement or otherwise as the appeal tribunal
directs.






Alternative dispute resolution




345


In circumstances it considers appropriate, the Board may recommend the
use of alternative dispute resolution processes to assist in the
resolution of matters under this Act.




Division 5 — Board Inquiry Powers





General inquiry authority




346

(1)


If the Board considers that an inquiry is necessary, the inquiry may
be made by an officer of the Board or by another person appointed by
the Board to make the inquiry.




(2)

For the purposes of an inquiry under this section, the person making
the inquiry has the powers conferred on the Board under section 342
[authority to compel witnesses and production of evidence]
.






Examinations and other inquiries respecting employer information




347

(1)


The Board, an officer of the Board or a person authorized by the Board
for this purpose may examine the books and accounts of an employer and
make any other inquiry the Board considers necessary to determine any
of the following:




(a)

whether an industry or person is within the scope of the compensation
provisions;




(b)

the amount of the payroll of the employer;




(c)

whether a statement provided to the Board under section 245
[employer to provide estimate of payroll]
is an accurate statement of the matters that are required to be stated
in it.




(2)

For the purpose of an inquiry under this section, the Board or person
authorized to make the inquiry may give notice in writing to an
employer or agent of an employer requiring the employer to bring or
produce before the Board or person, at a time and place specified in
the notice, all records in the possession, custody or power of the
employer touching or in any way relating to or concerning the subject
matter of the inquiry referred to in the notice.




(3)

The time specified in a notice under subsection (2) must be at least
10 days after the notice is given.




(4)

An employer or agent named in and served with a notice under
subsection (2) must, at the time and place specified in the notice,
produce all records in accordance with the notice.




(5)

A person who does any of the following commits an offence:




(a)

obstructs or hinders the making of an inquiry under this section;




(b)

refuses to permit such an inquiry to be made;




(c)

neglects or refuses to produce the required records at the time and
place specified in the notice under subsection (2).






Oaths, affidavits and other declarations in relation to inquiries




348


An officer of the Board or a person authorized by the Board to make an
inquiry under section 346 or 347 may




(a)

require and take affidavits, affirmations or declarations as to any
matter of the inquiry,




(b)

take affidavits for the purposes of this Act, and




(c)

in relation to these, administer oaths, affirmations and declarations
and certify that they were made.






Confidentiality obligations in relation to inquiries




349

(1)


Officers of the Board and persons authorized to make an inquiry under
this Division must not, except in the performance of their duties or
under the authority of the Board, disclose or allow to be disclosed
information obtained by them or which has come to their knowledge in
making or in connection with an inquiry under this Division.




(2)

A person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence and is
liable on conviction to a fine not greater than $
6 557.34
.








[Note: the dollar amount shown in this section may not reflect
the current consumer price index adjustments referred to in
section 333. Current information may be found on the Workers'
Compensation Board website at
www.worksafebc.com/en/law-policy/claims-rehabilitation/claims-related-consumer-price-index
or may be obtained by calling your WorkSafeBC
regional office.]







Division 6 — Workers' Advisers, Employers' Advisers and Other Assistance





Workers' advisers and employers' advisers




350

(1)


Workers' advisers, employers' advisers and other employees necessary
to enable the workers' advisers and employers' advisers to perform
their duties under this Division may be appointed under the

Public Service Act

as employees of the minister's ministry.




(2)

The following apply to a ministry employee appointed under subsection
(1) as a workers' adviser or employers' adviser:




(a)

the employee need not be a member of the Law Society of British
Columbia;




(b)

section 15
[restrictions on practice of law]
of the

Legal Profession Act

does not apply to the employee if that employee is not a member of the
Law Society of British Columbia.




(3)

The minister may request that the Board reimburse the government for
all amounts paid by the government for the reasonable expenses
properly incurred by the government in administering workers' and
employers' advisers programs.




(4)

On receiving a request under subsection (3), the Board must pay the
amount requested to the Minister of Finance.






Role of workers' advisers




351


A workers' adviser must




(a)

give assistance to a worker or dependant having a claim under this
Act, unless the workers' adviser considers the claim has no merit,




(b)

on claims matters, communicate with or appear before the Board and the
appeal tribunal on behalf of a worker or dependant if the adviser
considers assistance is required, and




(c)

advise workers and dependants regarding the interpretation and
administration of this Act or any regulations or decisions made under
this Act.






Role of employers' advisers




352


An employers' adviser must




(a)

give assistance to an employer respecting any claim under this Act of




(i)

a worker of the employer, or




(ii)

a dependant of such a worker


unless the employer's adviser considers the claim has no merit,




(b)

on claims matters, communicate with or appear before the Board and the
appeal tribunal on behalf of an employer if the adviser considers
assistance is required, and




(c)

advise employers regarding the interpretation and administration of
this Act or any regulations or decisions made under this Act.






Information and confidentiality rules for advisers and staff




353

(1)


The workers' advisers, the employers' advisers and the staff of those
advisers must have access at any reasonable time to the complete
claims files of the Board and any other material relating to the claim
of an injured or disabled worker.




(2)

The advisers and staff referred to in subsection (1) must treat the
information contained in the claims files as confidential to the same
extent as the information is treated by the Board.




(3)

An employers' adviser must not report or disclose to an employer
information obtained from or at the Board of a type that would not be
disclosed to the employer by the Board.






Lay advocates




354

(1)


A person may




(a)

give advice respecting the interpretation or administration of this
Act, the policies of the board of directors, the Board's practices and
procedures or any regulations, orders or decisions under this Act, or




(b)

act on behalf of a person by




(i)

communicating with the Board, an officer or employee of the Board, the
appeal tribunal or any other person acting under this Act, or




(ii)

appearing before the Board, an officer or employee of the Board or the
appeal tribunal.




(2)

Section 15
[restrictions on practice of law]
of the

Legal Profession Act

does not apply to a person while the person performs functions
referred to in subsection (1).




Division 7 — Fair Practices Commissioner





Definitions




355


In this Division:



"fair practices commissioner"

means an officer of the Board who is appointed as the fair practices
commissioner under section 356 (1);



"personal information"

has the same meaning as in the

Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act

.






Fair practices commissioner




356

(1)


The board of directors must appoint an officer as the fair practices
commissioner to advise the Board on matters of fairness.




(2)

The fair practices commissioner is to be appointed for a term of 3
years and may be reappointed for additional 3-year terms.




(3)

The

Labour Relations Code

does not apply to the fair practices commissioner.




(4)

The fair practices commissioner may do the following:




(a)

investigate complaints by employers, workers and dependants of workers
regarding alleged unfairness in their dealings with the Board;




(b)

make recommendations to the Board to




(i)

resolve complaints referred to in paragraph (a), or




(ii)

address systemic problems with the fairness of the Board's dealings as
indicated by such complaints;




(c)

make recommendations to the Board about systemic problems with the
fairness of




(i)

the application of policies of the board of directors, or




(ii)

practices and procedures of the Board;




(d)

undertake any other activity prescribed by regulation of the
Lieutenant Governor in Council.




(5)

Despite subsection (4), the fair practices commissioner may not
comment on or make recommendations respecting the following:




(a)

the merits of a Board decision under the OHS provisions or the
compensation provisions, or the merits of a decision of a review
officer or the appeal tribunal;




(b)

a matter that is the subject of a proceeding or a decision of a court
or tribunal, as defined in section 1 of the

Judicial Review Procedure Act

;




(c)

the setting or revision of a policy of the board of directors under
section 319
[policies of the board of directors]
;




(d)

the carrying out of a matter for which the board of directors is
responsible under section 320
[general responsibilities of the board of directors]
;




(e)

any other matter prescribed by regulation of the Lieutenant Governor
in Council.




(6)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations respecting any
matter contemplated by this section.






Annual report of fair practices commissioner




357

(1)


On or before April 30 of each year, the fair practices commissioner
must




(a)

prepare a report that includes the information required by the board
of directors, other than personal information, in relation to the
preceding calendar year, and




(b)

provide a copy of the report to the board of directors.




(2)

After receiving the report under subsection (1), the board of
directors must promptly




(a)

provide a copy of the report to the minister, and




(b)

publish the report on a publicly accessible website.




Contents
|


Part 1
|


Part 2
|


Part 3
|


Part 4
|


Part 5
|


Part 6
|


Part 7
|

Part 8 |

Schedules
|



Revision Schedules

|



Consumer Price Index Adjustments





