





View Complete Statute



Provincial Sales Tax Act
[SBC 2012] CHAPTER 35



Part 7 — Refunds



Division 1 — Refunds from Collectors





Refund if no obligation to pay




146


If a person has paid to a collector an amount as tax under this Act in
circumstances in which there was no legal obligation to pay the amount
as tax, the collector may, within 180 days of the date the amount was
paid, refund or credit to the person the amount paid as tax.






Refund if person fails to provide evidence at time of sale or lease




147

(1)


This section applies to a collector if




(a)

the collector has levied an amount as tax




(i)

in accordance with section 37 (3), (4), (5) or (6), 39 (4), 44 (2), 49
(9.1), (10), (11) or (12), 92 (2), 93 (4), 95 (3) or 145 (1.1) in
respect of a purchase, lease or delivery of tangible personal
property,




(ii)

in accordance with section 105 (3) or 145 (1.1) in respect of a
purchase or delivery of software, or




(iii)

in accordance with section 119 (2), 123.1, 130 (2.1) or (3), 134.3 (4)
or 145 (2) in respect of a purchase or provision of a
taxable service,


in circumstances in which the collector would not have been required
to levy the amount if the collector, at or before the time the tax was
levied, had obtained from the person who was liable to pay the tax the
declaration, information and document required under the applicable
section, and




(b)

the collector subsequently obtains from that person the declaration,
information and document required under the applicable section.




(2)

A collector to whom this section applies may, within 180 days of the
date the amount referred to in subsection (1) is levied, refund or
credit to the person referred to in that subsection the amount of tax
paid or payable.






Prohibition — refund already received




148

(1)


A person who has applied for or received a refund from the director
under section 152 is not entitled to and must not request a refund or
credit under section 146 in respect of the same payment of an amount
as tax.




(2)

A person who has applied for or received a refund from the director
under section 153 is not entitled to and must not request a refund or
credit under section 147 in respect of the same payment of tax.






Refund if motor vehicle returned to collector




149


If




(a)

a purchaser returns a motor vehicle to the collector who sold it to
the purchaser within one year of the date tax is payable under this
Act in respect of the purchase, and




(b)

in return for the motor vehicle the collector refunds or credits to
the purchaser all or a portion of the purchase price,


the collector must, at the time the refund or credit of the purchase
price is paid or allowed, refund or credit to the purchaser the amount
of tax paid or payable by the purchaser that is attributable to the
amount of the refund or credit of the purchase price.






Refund or credit of purchase price




150


Subject to section 149, if a collector, within 4 years of the date tax
is payable under this Act in respect of the purchase, pays a refund or
allows a credit to a purchaser of tangible personal property, software
or a taxable service of all or a portion of the purchase price, the
collector may, at the time the refund or credit of the purchase price
is paid or allowed, refund or credit to the purchaser the amount of
tax paid or payable by the purchaser that is attributable to the
amount of the refund or credit of the purchase price.






Refund or credit of lease price




151


If a collector, within 4 years of the date tax is payable under this
Act in respect of a lease, pays a refund or allows a credit to a
lessee of tangible personal property of all or a portion of the lease
price, the collector may, at the time the refund or credit of the
lease price is paid or allowed, refund or credit to the lessee the
amount of tax paid or payable by the lessee that is attributable to
the amount of the refund or credit of the lease price.




Division 2 — Refunds from Director





Refund if no obligation to pay or collect




152

(1)


If the director is satisfied that




(a)

a person has paid an amount as tax under this Act in circumstances in
which there was no legal obligation to pay the amount as tax, and




(b)

the person has not been paid a refund or allowed a credit under
section 146 in respect of the amount,


the director must refund to that person the amount paid as tax.




(2)

If the director is satisfied that a collector has remitted to the
government an amount in circumstances in which the collector




(a)

was not required to levy and collect the amount under this Act, and




(b)

did not collect the amount under this Act,


the director must refund that amount to the collector.




(3)

If the director is satisfied that




(a)

a collector has remitted an amount as tax under this Act, and




(b)

the person liable to pay the tax has paid the tax directly to the
government,


the director must refund that amount to the collector.






Refund if person fails to provide evidence at time of sale or lease




153

(1)


If the director is satisfied that




(a)

a person was required to pay to a collector an amount of tax under
section 37 (3), (4), (5) or (6), 39 (4), 44 (2), 49 (9.1), (10), (11)
or (12), 92 (2), 93 (4), 95 (3), 105 (3), 119 (2), 123.1, 130 (2.1) or
(3), 134.3 (4) or 145 (1.1) or (2) or a prescribed provision of the
regulations in circumstances in which the person would not have been
required to pay the amount if the collector had obtained from the
person, at or before the time the tax was payable, the declaration,
information and document required under the applicable section,




(b)

the person would not have been required to pay the amount of tax to
the collector but for the section of this Act or the regulations
referred to in paragraph (a), as applicable, and




(c)

the person has not been paid a refund or allowed a credit under
section 147 in respect of the amount of tax paid,


the director must refund to the person the amount of tax paid.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply if a person has received a refund or
credit under Division 6
[Conveyances Used Interjurisdictionally]
or 7
[Multijurisdictional Vehicles]
of Part 3 in respect of the same payment of tax.






Refund if person fails to provide evidence at time of vehicle
registration




153.1


If the director is satisfied that




(a)

a person was required to pay to the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia an amount of tax under section 37, 49, 50, 52 or 100 in
circumstances in which the person would not have been required to pay
the amount if the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia had
obtained from the person, at or before the time the tax was payable,
the declaration, information and document required under section 30
(7), and




(b)

the person would not have been required to pay the amount of tax to
the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia but for section 30 (7),


the director must refund to the person the amount of tax paid.






Refund if promotional distributor fails to provide evidence at time of
sale




153.2

(1)


If the director is satisfied that




(a)

a promotional distributor was required to pay to a collector an amount
of tax under section 30.1 (1) or (2) in circumstances in
which the promotional distributor would not have been required to pay
the amount if the collector had obtained from the promotional
distributor, at or before the time tax was payable, the registration
number or declaration required under section 30.1 (1)
or (2), and




(b)

the promotional distributor has provided the promotional material to
another person by way of promotional sale,


the director must refund to the promotional distributor the amount
referred to in subsection (2).




(2)

The amount of the refund under subsection (1) is equal to the
difference between




(a)

the amount of tax paid by the promotional distributor in accordance
with section 30.1 (1) or (2), and




(b)

the amount of tax that would have been payable had the purchase price
of the promotional material been calculated at the time of the
promotional sale.






Motor vehicle returned to manufacturer




154


If the director is satisfied that




(a)

a purchaser returned a motor vehicle to the manufacturer,




(b)

the return of the motor vehicle to the manufacturer results from an
independent, impartial third party dispute resolution process, and




(c)

on the return of the motor vehicle the manufacturer paid a refund or
allowed a credit to the purchaser of all or a portion of the purchase
price,


the director must refund to the purchaser the amount of tax paid by
the purchaser that is attributable to the amount of the refund or
credit of the purchase price.






Refund in accordance with Nisg̱a'a Nation Taxation Agreement




155

(1)


In this section,
"Taxation Agreement"
has the same meaning as in section 6.1 of the

Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement Act

.




(2)

If the Taxation Agreement provides that a person is entitled to a
refund of tax paid by the person under this Act, on application and on
receipt of evidence establishing that the person is so entitled, the
director must pay that refund to that person.






Refund in accordance with treaty first nation tax treatment agreement




156


If a tax treatment agreement of a treaty first nation provides that a
person is entitled to a refund of tax paid by the person under this
Act, on application and on receipt of evidence establishing that the
person is so entitled, the director must pay that refund to that
person.






Refund by director if collector does not provide refund




157

(1)


If the director is satisfied that




(a)

a collector paid a refund or allowed a credit to a person of all or a
portion of a purchase price in the circumstances referred to in
section 149 or 150, and




(b)

the collector did not refund or credit to the person the amount of tax
paid by the person under this Act that is attributable to the amount
of the refund or credit of the purchase price,


the director must refund to that person the amount of tax paid by the
person that is attributable to the amount of the refund or credit of
the purchase price.




(2)

If the director is satisfied that




(a)

a collector paid a refund or allowed a credit to a person of all or a
portion of a lease price in the circumstances referred to in section
151, and




(b)

the collector did not refund or credit to the person the amount of tax
paid by the person that is attributable to the amount of the refund or
credit of the lease price,


the director must refund to that person the amount of tax paid by the
person that is attributable to the amount of the refund or credit of
the lease price.






Property shipped out of British Columbia




158


If the director is satisfied that




(a)

a purchaser purchased tangible personal property at a sale in British
Columbia for a business use and paid tax under Part 3 on the purchase,




(b)

the tangible personal property,




(i)

in the case of tangible personal property provided by way of
promotional distribution, was shipped out of British Columbia in bulk
to a recipient for the recipient's own use or consumption outside
British Columbia, or




(ii)

in any other case, was shipped out of British Columbia for use outside
British Columbia, and




(c)

no use whatsoever was made of the tangible personal property while it
was in British Columbia other than to store it in and to ship it out
of British Columbia,


the director must, unless tax is required to be refunded under section
158.1 in relation to the same tangible personal property, refund to
the purchaser the tax paid under Part 3 on the purchase.






Property used to improve real property situated outside British
Columbia




158.1


If the director is satisfied that




(a)

a contractor purchased in British Columbia, brought or sent into
British Columbia, or received delivery of in British Columbia,
tangible personal property,




(b)

the contractor paid tax under Part 3 of the Act in respect of the
tangible personal property,




(c)

[Repealed 2020-18-72.]




(d)

the contractor shipped the tangible personal property out of British
Columbia for the purpose of fulfilling a contract for the supply and
installation of affixed machinery or improvements to real property
situated outside British Columbia, and




(e)

under the terms of the contract, the tangible personal property was
used so that it ceased to be personal property at common law,




(f)

[Repealed 2020-18-72.]


the director must refund to the contractor the tax paid under Part 3
of the Act in relation to the tangible personal property, whether or
not the tangible personal property was processed, fabricated or
manufactured into, or attached to or incorporated into, other tangible
personal property that was used outside British Columbia as described
in paragraph (e).






Refund or deduction for bad debts




159

(1)


In this section:



"specified amount"

, in relation to a transaction, means a portion, determined in the
prescribed manner, of the amount remitted by the person to the
government in respect of taxes payable under this Act on that
transaction;



"transaction"

means a transaction referred to in subsection (2) (a) (i).




(2)

This section applies to a person in respect of a transaction if




(a)

the person




(i)

sells or provides tangible personal property, software or a taxable
service or leases tangible personal property, or




(ii)

is a designated collector under section 179.1
[designation of collector if agent and principal]
in respect of a transaction,




(b)

the person, in accordance with this Act, remits the tax required under
this Act to be levied and collected for the transaction,




(c)

the person is a registrant at the time the transaction occurs,




(d)

the purchaser or lessee does not pay to the person the full amount of
the consideration in respect of the transaction, and




(e)

within 4 years of the date on which the tax referred to in paragraph
(b) was remitted, the person writes off as unrealizable or
uncollectable the amount owing by the purchaser or lessee.




(3)

A registrant to whom this section applies in respect of a transaction
may deduct the specified amount from the amount of taxes that the
registrant is required to remit under this Act in respect of the
reporting period in which the registrant writes off the amount owing
referred to in subsection (2) (e).




(4)

A deduction referred to in subsection (3) must be made in a form
specified by the director.




(5)

If the director is satisfied that




(a)

this section applies to a person in respect of a transaction, and




(b)

if the person is a registrant, the person has not made a deduction
under subsection (3) in respect of the transaction,


the director must refund the specified amount to the person.




(6)

If a registrant who has made a deduction under subsection (3) or
obtained a refund under subsection (5) recovers some or all of the
amount referred to in subsection (2) (e) with respect to which the
refund was paid or the deduction was made, the registrant must add an
amount, determined in the prescribed manner, to the tax remitted by
the registrant under this Act in respect of the reporting period in
which the recovery was made.




(7)

If a person, other than a registrant referred to in subsection (6),
who obtained a refund under subsection (5) recovers some or all of the
amount referred to in subsection (2) (e) with respect to which the
refund was paid, the person must pay to the government an amount,
determined in the prescribed manner, on or before the last day of the
month following the month in which the recovery was made.






Refund to collector




160

(1)


This section applies to a collector if the collector has




(a)

levied and remitted an amount in accordance with this Act, and




(b)

paid a refund or allowed a credit under Division 1 of this Part or
under a regulation made under section 243 in respect of the amount
referred to in paragraph (a) of this subsection.




(2)

If a collector to whom this section applies is a registrant, the
collector may deduct, in respect of the reporting period in which the
refund or credit referred to in subsection (1) (b) is paid or allowed,
the amount of the refund or credit from the amount of taxes that the
collector is required to remit under this Act.




(3)

A deduction referred to in subsection (2) must be made in a form
specified by the director.




(4)

If the director is satisfied that




(a)

this section applies to a collector, and




(b)

if the collector is a registrant, the collector has not made a
deduction under subsection (2) in respect of the refund or credit
referred to in subsection (1) (b),


the director must refund to the collector the amount of the refund or
credit referred to in subsection (1) (b).






Refund to small seller




161


If the director is satisfied that




(a)

a person as a small seller paid tax




(i)

under section 37 in accordance with section 89 in respect of eligible
tangible personal property,




(ii)

under section 49 in accordance with section 90 in respect of eligible
tangible personal property,




(iii)

under section 55 in respect of eligible tangible personal property,




(iv)

under section 112 in respect of software, or




(v)

under Division 1, 2, 4 or 5 of Part 5 in respect of a taxable service
purchased for resale, and




(b)

when the person sold the eligible tangible personal property, software
or taxable service, the person was a collector who levied and
collected tax as required by this Act on that sale,


the director must pay a refund to the person of the amount of tax
referred to in paragraph (a) that was paid by that person.






Refunds authorized or required under regulations




162


The director,




(a)

if authorized by the regulations, may refund all or part of an amount
paid or remitted under this Act by an applicant for a refund,




(b)

if required by the regulations, must refund all or part of an amount
paid or remitted under this Act by an applicant for a refund,




(c)

if authorized by the regulations, may refund to an eligible charity or
parents' advisory council who applies for a refund all or part of an
amount paid under this Act by a person, and




(d)

if required by the regulations, must refund to an eligible charity or
parents' advisory council who applies for a refund all or part of an
amount paid under this Act by a person.






Prohibition — refund or credit already received




163

(1)


A person who has been paid a refund or allowed a credit under Division
1 is not entitled to and must not apply for a refund under this
Division in respect of any portion of the amount of the refund or
credit paid or allowed under Division 1.




(2)

If a person is paid a refund under this Division and the person
subsequently is paid a refund or allowed a credit under Division 1 in
respect of the same payment of tax, that person must pay to the
government the amount refunded under this Division on or before the
last day of the month after the month in which the refund under
Division 1 was received by that person.




Division 3 — General





Definition




164


In this Division,
"refund"
means a refund payable under this Act by the director.






Claim for refund




165

(1)


To claim a refund, other than under section 155 or 156, a person, a
parents' advisory council or an eligible charity must submit to the
director




(a)

subject to the regulations, a written application in the form and
manner satisfactory to the director and signed,




(i)

in the case of a claim by an eligible charity, by an authorized
representative of the eligible charity,




(i.1)

in the case of a claim by a parents' advisory council, by an
authorized representative of the parents' advisory council, or




(ii)

in any other case, by the person who paid or remitted the amount
claimed, and




(b)

any information or document required by the director.




(1.1)

For the purposes of subsection (1) (a) (i), if the eligible charity
making the claim is a corporation, the application must be signed by
an authorized representative who is a member of the board of directors
or an authorized employee of the corporation.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1) (a) (ii), if the person who paid or
remitted the amount claimed is a corporation, the application must be
signed by a member of the board of directors or an authorized employee
of the corporation.




(3)

Despite anything in this Act or the regulations, the director is not
required to pay a refund to a person, a parents' advisory council or
an eligible charity, other than a refund under section 155 or 156,
unless the requirements of this section are met.






Refund limits




166

(1)


Despite section 16 of the

Financial Administration Act

,




(a)

a refund of less than $10 must not be made,




(b)

a refund, other than a refund referred to in paragraph (c) or (d),
must not be made on a claim for a refund that is received by the
director more than 4 years after the date on which the amount claimed
was paid or remitted,




(c)

a refund to a person under section 159 (5) must not be made on a claim
for a refund that is received by the director more than 4 years after
the date on which the person writes off as unrealizable or
uncollectable the amount owing by the purchaser or lessee, and




(d)

a refund to a collector under section 160 (4) must not be made on a
claim for a refund that is received by the director more than 4 years
after the date on which the collector paid a refund or allowed a
credit under Division 1.




(2)

Despite the

Limitation Act

, an action for a refund must not be brought more than 4 years
after the date on which the amount claimed was paid or remitted.






Appropriation for refunds




167


If the director pays a refund, the director must pay the refund from
the consolidated revenue fund.




Contents
|


Part 1
|


Part 2
|


Part 3
|


Part 4
|


Part 5
|


Part 6
|

Part 7 |

Part 8
|


Part 9
|


Part 10
|


Part 11
|


Part 12
|


Part 13
|


Part 14
|


Part 15




