





View Complete Statute



Family Law Act
[SBC 2011] CHAPTER 25



Part 4 — Care of and Time with Children



Division 1 — Best Interests of Child





Best interests of child




37

(1)


In making an agreement or order under this Part respecting
guardianship, parenting arrangements or contact with a child, the
parties and the court must consider the best interests of the child
only.




(2)

To determine what is in the best interests of a child, all of the
child's needs and circumstances must be considered, including the
following:




(a)

the child's health and emotional well-being;




(b)

the child's views, unless it would be inappropriate to consider them;




(c)

the nature and strength of the relationships between the child and
significant persons in the child's life;




(d)

the history of the child's care;




(e)

the child's need for stability, given the child's age and stage of
development;




(f)

the ability of each person who is a guardian or seeks guardianship of
the child, or who has or seeks parental responsibilities, parenting
time or contact with the child, to exercise the person's
responsibilities;




(g)

the impact of any family violence on the child's safety, security or
well-being, whether the family violence is directed toward the child
or another family member;




(h)

whether the actions of a person responsible for family violence
indicate that the person may be impaired in the person's ability to
care for the child and meet the child's needs;




(i)

the appropriateness of an arrangement that would require the child's
guardians to cooperate on issues affecting the child, including
whether requiring cooperation would increase any risks to the safety,
security or well-being of the child or other family members;




(j)

any civil or criminal proceeding relevant to the child's safety,
security or well-being.




(3)

An agreement or order is not in the best interests of a child unless
it protects, to the greatest extent possible, the child's physical,
psychological and emotional safety, security and well-being.




(4)

In making an order under this Part, a court may consider a person's
conduct only if it substantially affects a factor set out in
subsection (2), and only to the extent that it affects that factor.






Assessing family violence




38


For the purposes of section 37 (2) (g) and (h)
[best interests of child]
, a court must consider all of the following:




(a)

the nature and seriousness of the family violence;




(b)

how recently the family violence occurred;




(c)

the frequency of the family violence;




(d)

whether any psychological or emotional abuse constitutes, or is
evidence of, a pattern of coercive and controlling behaviour directed
at a family member;




(e)

whether the family violence was directed toward the child;




(f)

whether the child was exposed to family violence that was not directed
toward the child;




(g)

the harm to the child's physical, psychological and emotional safety,
security and well-being as a result of the family violence;




(h)

any steps the person responsible for the family violence has taken to
prevent further family violence from occurring;




(i)

any other relevant matter.




Division 2 — Parenting Arrangements





Parents are generally guardians




39

(1)


While a child's parents are living together and after the child's
parents separate, each parent of the child is the child's guardian.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), an agreement or order made after separation or
when the parents are about to separate may provide that a parent is
not the child's guardian.




(3)

A parent who has never resided with the parent's child is not the
child's guardian unless one of the following applies:




(a)

section 30
[parentage if other arrangement]
applies and the person is a parent under that section;




(b)

the parent and all of the child's guardians make an agreement
providing that the parent is also a guardian;




(c)

the parent regularly cares for the child.




(4)

If a child's guardian and a person who is not the child's guardian
marry or enter into a marriage-like relationship, the person does not
become a guardian of that child by reason only of the marriage or
marriage-like relationship.






Parenting arrangements




40

(1)


Only a guardian may have parental responsibilities and parenting time
with respect to a child.




(2)

Unless an agreement or order allocates parental responsibilities
differently, each child's guardian may exercise all parental
responsibilities with respect to the child in consultation with the
child's other guardians, unless consultation would be unreasonable or
inappropriate in the circumstances.




(3)

Parental responsibilities may be allocated under an agreement or order
such that they may be exercised by




(a)

one or more guardians only, or




(b)

each guardian acting separately or all guardians acting together.




(4)

In the making of parenting arrangements, no particular arrangement is
presumed to be in the best interests of the child and without limiting
that, the following must not be presumed:




(a)

that parental responsibilities should be allocated equally among
guardians;




(b)

that parenting time should be shared equally among guardians;




(c)

that decisions among guardians should be made separately or together.






Parental responsibilities




41


For the purposes of this Part, parental responsibilities with respect
to a child are as follows:




(a)

making day-to-day decisions affecting the child and having day-to-day
care, control and supervision of the child;




(b)

making decisions respecting where the child will reside;




(c)

making decisions respecting with whom the child will live and
associate;




(d)

making decisions respecting the child's education and participation in
extracurricular activities, including the nature, extent and location;




(e)

making decisions respecting the child's cultural, linguistic,
religious and spiritual upbringing and heritage, including, if the
child is an Indigenous child, the child's Indigenous identity;




(f)

subject to section 17 of the

Infants Act

, giving, refusing or withdrawing consent to medical, dental and other
health-related treatments for the child;




(g)

applying for a passport, licence, permit, benefit, privilege or other
thing for the child;




(h)

giving, refusing or withdrawing consent for the child, if consent is
required;




(i)

receiving and responding to any notice that a parent or guardian is
entitled or required by law to receive;




(j)

requesting and receiving from third parties health, education or other
information respecting the child;




(k)

subject to any applicable provincial legislation,




(i)

starting, defending, compromising or settling any proceeding relating
to the child, and




(ii)

identifying, advancing and protecting the child's legal and financial
interests;




(l)

exercising any other responsibilities reasonably necessary to nurture
the child's development.






Parenting time




42

(1)


For the purposes of this Part, parenting time is the time that a child
is with a guardian, as allocated under an agreement or order.




(2)

During parenting time, a guardian may exercise, subject to an
agreement or order that provides otherwise, the parental
responsibility of making day-to-day decisions affecting the child and
having day-to-day care, control and supervision of the child.






Exercise of parental responsibilities




43

(1)


A child's guardian must exercise parental responsibilities in the best
interests of the child.




(2)

If a guardian is temporarily unable to exercise any of the parental
responsibilities described in section 41 (a), (c), (d), (f) to (j) or
(l)
[parental responsibilities]
, the child's guardian, in writing, may authorize a person to
exercise, in the best interests of the child, one or more of those
responsibilities on that guardian's behalf while the guardian is
unable to do so.






Agreements respecting parenting arrangements




44

(1)


Two or more of a child's guardians may make an agreement respecting
one or more of the following:




(a)

the allocation of parental responsibilities;




(b)

parenting time;




(c)

the implementation of an agreement made under this section;




(d)

the means for resolving disputes respecting an agreement made under
this section.




(2)

An agreement respecting parenting arrangements is binding only if the
agreement is made




(a)

after separation, or




(b)

when the parties are about to separate, for the purpose of being
effective on separation.




(3)

A written agreement respecting parenting arrangements that is filed in
the court is enforceable under this Act as if it were an order of the
court.




(4)

On application by a party, the court must set aside or replace with an
order made under this Division all or part of an agreement respecting
parenting arrangements if satisfied that the agreement is not in the
best interests of the child.






Orders respecting parenting arrangements




45

(1)


On application by a guardian, a court may make an order respecting one
or more of the following:




(a)

the allocation of parental responsibilities;




(b)

parenting time;




(c)

the implementation of an order made under this Division;




(d)

the means for resolving disputes respecting an order made under this
Division.




(2)

An order under subsection (1) must not be made if the child's
guardians are the child's parents and are not separated.




(3)

The court may make an order to require that the transfer of a child
from one party to another, or that parenting time with a child, be
supervised by another person named in the order if the court is
satisfied that supervision is in the best interests of the child.




(4)

Despite subsection (1), a person applying for guardianship may apply,
at the same time, for an order under this section.






Changes to child's residence if no agreement or order




46

(1)


This section applies if all of the following circumstances exist:




(a)

no written agreement or order respecting parenting arrangements
applies in respect of a child;




(b)

an application is made for an order described in section 45 (1) (a) or
(b)
[orders respecting parenting arrangements]
;




(c)

the child's guardian plans to change the location of that child's
residence and the change can reasonably be expected to have a
significant impact on that child's relationship with another guardian.




(2)

To determine the parenting arrangements that would be in the best
interests of the child in the circumstances set out in subsection (1)
of this section, the court




(a)

must consider, in addition to the factors set out in section 37 (2)
[best interests of child]
, the reasons for the change in the location of the child's residence,
and




(b)

must not consider whether the guardian who is planning to move would
do so without the child.






Changing, suspending or terminating orders respecting parenting
arrangements




47


On application, a court may change, suspend or terminate an order
respecting parenting arrangements if satisfied that, since the making
of the order, there has been a change in the needs or circumstances of
the child, including because of a change in the circumstances of
another person.






Informal parenting arrangements




48

(1)


If




(a)

no agreement or order respecting parenting arrangements applies in
respect of a child, and




(b)

the child's guardians have had in place informal parenting
arrangements for a period of time sufficient for those parenting
arrangements to have been established as a normal part of that child's
routine,


a child's guardian must not change the informal parenting arrangements
without consulting the other guardians who are parties to those
arrangements, unless consultation would be unreasonable or
inappropriate in the circumstances.




(2)

Nothing in subsection (1) prevents a child's guardian from seeking




(a)

an agreement respecting parenting arrangements, or




(b)

an order under section 45
[orders respecting parenting arrangements]
.






Referral of questions to court




49


A child's guardian may apply to a court for directions respecting an
issue affecting the child, and the court may make an order giving the
directions it considers appropriate.




Division 3 — Guardianship





Agreements respecting guardianship




50


A person cannot become a child's guardian by agreement except




(a)

if the person is the child's parent, or




(b)

as provided under this Division, the

Adoption Act

or the

Child, Family and Community Service Act

.






Orders respecting guardianship




51

(1)


On application, a court may




(a)

appoint a person as a child's guardian, or




(b)

except in the case of a director who is a child's guardian under the

Adoption Act

or the

Child, Family and Community Service Act

, terminate a person's guardianship of a child.




(2)

An applicant under subsection (1) (a) of this section must provide
evidence to the court, in accordance with the Supreme Court Family
Rules or the Provincial Court Family Rules, respecting the best
interests of the child as described in section 37
[best interests of child]
of this Act.




(3)

Subsection (2) of this section applies regardless of whether there is
consent to the application under section 219
[persons may consent to order being made]
.




(4)

If a child is 12 years of age or older, a court must not appoint a
person other than a parent as the child's guardian without the child's
written approval, unless satisfied that the appointment is in the best
interests of the child.




(5)

A person who has custody of a child under section 54.01 (5) or 54.1 of
the

Child, Family and Community Service Act

is deemed, for the purposes of this Act, to be a guardian appointed
under subsection (1) of this section.






Who is entitled to notice




52

(1)


Subject to subsections (2) and (3), if an application is made under
this Division, the following persons must be served with notice of the
application:




(a)

each parent or guardian of the child affected by the application;




(b)

each adult person with whom the child usually lives and who generally
has care of the child;




(c)

any other person to whom the court considers it appropriate to serve
with notice.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply to a parent of a child if any of the
following apply:




(a)

the parent's guardianship was terminated by a continuing custody order
under the

Child, Family and Community Service Act

;




(b)

another person has custody of the child under section 54.1 of the

Child, Family and Community Service Act

;




(c)

another person has custody of the child under section 54.01 (5) of the

Child, Family and Community Service Act

.




(3)

The court may grant an exemption from a requirement to give notice
under subsection (1) if the court considers it appropriate.






Appointment of guardian in case of death




53

(1)


A child's guardian may appoint a person to be the child's guardian on
the death of the appointing guardian




(a)

in a will made in accordance with the

Wills, Estates and Succession Act

, or




(b)

in the prescribed form,




(i)

signed at its end by the guardian, or the signature at the end must be
acknowledged by the guardian as the guardian's, in the presence of 2
or more witnesses present at the same time, and




(ii)

signed by 2 or more of the witnesses in the presence of the guardian.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1) (b),




(a)

a witness may not be a person appointed to be the child's guardian,
and




(b)

a reference to the signature of a guardian includes a signature made
by another person in the guardian's presence and by the guardian's
direction, and the signature may be either the guardian's name or the
name of the person signing.




(3)

If a child's guardian dies without having made an appointment under
subsection (1) of this section or under section 55 (1)
[appointment of standby guardian]
, and there is




(a)

one surviving guardian who is also the child's parent, the surviving
guardian has all parental responsibilities with respect to the child,
unless an order provides otherwise, or




(b)

more than one surviving guardian who are also the child's parent, each
of the surviving guardians has the parental responsibilities that the
deceased guardian had with respect to the child, unless an agreement
or order provides otherwise.






Loss of guardian




54


If a child's guardian dies, a surviving parent of the child who is not
a guardian of that child does not become that child's guardian unless
appointed under section 51
[orders respecting guardianship]
or 53
[appointment of guardian in case of death]
.






Appointment of standby guardian




55

(1)


A guardian facing terminal illness or permanent mental incapacity may
appoint a person to become, when the conditions set out in the
appointment are met, a child's guardian, in addition to the appointing
guardian.




(2)

An appointment under subsection (1)




(a)

must be made in the prescribed form,




(i)

signed at its end by the guardian, or the signature at the end must be
acknowledged by the guardian as the guardian's, in the presence of 2
or more witnesses present at the same time, and




(ii)

signed by 2 or more of the witnesses in the presence of the guardian,




(b)

must state the conditions that must be met for the appointment to take
effect, and




(c)

may provide that a designated person certify that a condition referred
to in paragraph (b) has been met and that, if such a certification is
made, it is conclusive.




(3)

For the purposes of subsection (2) (a),




(a)

a witness may not be a person appointed to be the child's guardian,
and




(b)

a reference to the signature of a guardian includes a signature made
by another person in the guardian's presence and by the guardian's
direction, and the signature may be either the guardian's name or the
name of the person signing.




(4)

In carrying out parental responsibilities, a guardian appointed under
this section must consult with the appointing guardian to the fullest
possible extent regarding the care and upbringing of the child.




(5)

Unless the appointing guardian, while capable, has revoked the
appointment or the appointment provides otherwise, a guardian
appointed under this section continues as the child's guardian on the
death of the appointing guardian despite any other instrument made by
the appointing guardian.






Limits on appointments




56


In making an appointment under section 53
[appointment of guardian in case of death]
or 55
[appointment of standby guardian]
, the appointing guardian




(a)

must consider the best interests of the child only, and




(b)

may not grant greater parental responsibilities than the appointing
guardian has with respect to the child.






Appointments must be accepted to take effect




57


An appointment under section 53
[appointment of guardian in case of death]
or 55
[appointment of standby guardian]
does not take effect unless the appointed person, either expressly or
impliedly by the person's conduct, accepts the appointment.




Division 4 — Contact with a Child





Agreements respecting contact




58

(1)


A child's guardian and a person who is not a child's guardian may make
an agreement respecting contact with a child, including describing the
terms and form of contact.




(2)

An agreement respecting contact with a child is binding only if the
agreement is made between all of a child's guardians having parental
responsibility for making decisions respecting with whom the child may
associate.




(3)

A written agreement respecting contact with a child that is filed in
the court is enforceable under this Act as if it were an order of the
court.




(4)

On application by a party, the court must set aside or replace with an
order made under this Division all or part of an agreement respecting
contact with a child if satisfied that the agreement is not in the
best interests of the child.






Orders respecting contact




59

(1)


On application, a court may make an order respecting contact with a
child, including describing the terms and form of contact.




(2)

A court may grant contact to any person who is not a guardian,
including, without limiting the meaning of "person" in any other
provision of this Act or a regulation made under it, to a parent or
grandparent.




(3)

The court may make an order to require the parties to transfer the
child under the supervision of, or require contact with the child to
be supervised by, another person named in the order if the court is
satisfied that supervision is in the best interests of the child.




(4)

An access order referred to in section 54.2 (2.1) or (3) of the

Child, Family and Community Service Act

is deemed, for the purposes of this Act, to be an order made under
subsection (1) of this section for contact with a child.






Changing, suspending or terminating orders respecting contact




60


On application, a court may change, suspend or terminate an order
respecting contact with a child if satisfied that, since the making of
the order, there has been a change in the needs or circumstances of
the child, including because of a change in the circumstances of
another person.




Division 5 — Compliance Respecting Parenting Time or Contact with a
Child





Denial of parenting time or contact




61

(1)


An application under this section may be made only




(a)

by a person entitled under an agreement or order to parenting time or
contact with a child, and




(b)

within 12 months after the person was denied parenting time or contact
with a child.




(2)

If satisfied that an applicant has been wrongfully denied parenting
time or contact with a child by a child's guardian, the court on
application may make an order to do one or more of the following:




(a)

require the parties to participate in family dispute resolution;




(b)

require one or more parties or, without the consent of the child's
guardian, the child, to attend counselling, specified services or
programs;




(c)

specify a period of time during which the applicant may exercise
compensatory parenting time or contact with the child;




(d)

require the guardian to reimburse the applicant for expenses
reasonably and necessarily incurred by the applicant as a result of
the denial, including travel expenses, lost wages and child care
expenses;




(e)

require that the transfer of the child from one party to another be
supervised by another person named in the order;




(f)

if the court is satisfied that the guardian may not comply with an
order made under this section, order that guardian to




(i)

give security in any form the court directs, or




(ii)

report to the court, or to a person named by the court, at the time
and in the manner specified by the court;




(g)

require the guardian to pay




(i)

an amount not exceeding $5 000 to or for the benefit of the
applicant or a child whose interests were affected by the denial, or




(ii)

a fine not exceeding $5 000.




(3)

If the court makes an order under subsection (2) (a), (b) or (e), the
court may allocate among the parties, or require one party alone to
pay, the fees relating to the family dispute resolution, counselling,
service, program or transfer.






When denial is not wrongful




62

(1)


For the purposes of section 61
[denial of parenting time or contact]
, a denial of parenting time or contact with a child is not wrongful
in any of the following circumstances:




(a)

the guardian reasonably believed the child might suffer family
violence if the parenting time or contact with the child were
exercised;




(b)

the guardian reasonably believed the applicant was impaired by drugs
or alcohol at the time the parenting time or contact with the child
was to be exercised;




(c)

the child was suffering from an illness when the parenting time or
contact with the child was to be exercised and the guardian has a
written statement, by a medical practitioner or nurse practitioner,
indicating that it was not appropriate that the parenting time or
contact with the child be exercised;




(d)

in the 12-month period before the denial, the applicant failed
repeatedly and without reasonable notice or excuse to exercise
parenting time or contact with the child;




(e)

the applicant




(i)

informed the guardian, before the parenting time or contact with the
child was to be exercised, that it was not going to be exercised, and




(ii)

did not subsequently give reasonable notice to the guardian that the
applicant intended to exercise the parenting time or contact with the
child after all;




(f)

other circumstances the court considers to be sufficient justification
for the denial.




(2)

If, on an application under section 61, the court finds that parenting
time or contact with a child was denied, but was not wrongfully
denied, the court may make an order specifying a period of time during
which the applicant may exercise compensatory parenting time or
contact with the child.






Failure to exercise parenting time or contact




63

(1)


If a person fails repeatedly to exercise the parenting time or contact
with the child to which the person is entitled under an agreement or
order, whether or not reasonable notice was given, the court on
application may make an order to do one or more of the following:




(a)

require one or more of the things described in section 61 (2) (a), (b)
or (e)
[denial of parenting time or contact]
;




(b)

require the person to reimburse any other person for expenses
reasonably and necessarily incurred by the other person as a result of
the failure to exercise the parenting time or contact with the child,
including travel expenses, lost wages and child care expenses;




(c)

if the court is satisfied that the person who failed to exercise the
parenting time or contact with the child may not comply with an order
under this section, order that person to do one or more of the things
described in section 61 (2) (f).




(2)

In making an order under subsection (1) (a), the court may allocate
among the parties, or require one party alone to pay, the fees
relating to the family dispute resolution, counselling, service,
program or transfer.






Orders to prevent removal of child




64

(1)


On application, a court may make an order that a person not remove a
child from a specified geographical area.




(2)

On application, if satisfied that a person proposes to remove a child
from, and is unlikely to return the child to, British Columbia, the
court may order the person who proposes to remove the child to do one
or more of the following:




(a)

give security in any form the court directs;




(b)

surrender, to a person named by the court, passports and other travel
records of the person who proposes to remove the child or of the
child, or of both;




(c)

transfer specific property to a trustee named by the court;




(d)

if there is an agreement or order respecting child support, pay the
child support to a trustee named by the court.




(3)

This section does not apply in relation to the relocation of a child
within the meaning of Division 6
[Relocation]
of this Part.




(4)

A person required by an order made under this section to hold
passports, travel records or other property delivered under the order
must do so in accordance with the directions set out in the order.




Division 6 — Relocation





Definition and application




65

(1)


In this Division,
"relocation"
means a change in the location of the residence of a child or child's
guardian that can reasonably be expected to have a significant impact
on the child's relationship with




(a)

a guardian, or




(b)

one or more other persons having a significant role in the child's
life.




(2)

This Division applies if




(a)

a child's guardian plans to relocate themselves or the child, or both,
and




(b)

a written agreement or an order respecting parenting arrangements or
contact with the child applies to the child.






Notice of relocation




66

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), a child's guardian who plans to relocate
themselves or a child, or both, must give to all other guardians and
persons having contact with the child at least 60 days' written notice
of




(a)

the date of the relocation, and




(b)

the name of the proposed location.




(2)

The court may grant an exemption from all or part of the requirement
to give notice under subsection (1) if satisfied that




(a)

notice cannot be given without incurring a risk of family violence by
another guardian or a person having contact with the child, or




(b)

there is no ongoing relationship between the child and the other
guardian or the person having contact with the child.




(3)

An application for an exemption under subsection (2) may be made in
the absence of any other party.






Resolving issues arising from relocation




67

(1)


If notice is required under section 66
[notice of relocation]
, after the notice is given and before the date of the relocation, the
child's guardians and the persons having contact with the child must
use their best efforts to cooperate with one another for the purpose
of resolving any issues relating to the proposed relocation.




(2)

Nothing in subsection (1) prevents




(a)

a guardian from making an application under section 69
[orders respecting relocation]
, or




(b)

a person having contact with the child from making an application
under section 59
[orders respecting contact]
or 60

[changing, suspending or terminating orders respecting contact]

, as applicable, for the purpose of maintaining the relationship
between the child and a person having contact with the child if
relocation occurs.






Child may be relocated unless guardian objects




68


If a child's guardian gives notice under section 66
[notice of relocation]
that the guardian plans to relocate the child, the relocation may
occur on or after the date set out in the notice unless another
guardian of the child, within 30 days after receiving the notice,
files an application for an order to prohibit the relocation.






Orders respecting relocation




69

(1)


In this section,
"relocating guardian"
means a guardian who plans to relocate a child.




(2)

On application by a guardian, a court may make an order permitting or
prohibiting the relocation of a child by the relocating guardian.




(3)

Despite section 37 (1)
[best interests of child]
, the court, in making an order under this section, must consider, in
addition to the factors set out in section 37 (2), the factors set out
in subsection (4) (a) of this section.




(4)

If an application is made under this section and the relocating
guardian and another guardian do not have substantially equal
parenting time with the child,




(a)

the relocating guardian must satisfy the court that




(i)

the proposed relocation is made in good faith, and




(ii)

the relocating guardian has proposed reasonable and workable
arrangements to preserve the relationship between the child and the
child's other guardians, persons who are entitled to contact with the
child, and other persons who have a significant role in the child's
life, and




(b)

on the court being satisfied of the factors referred to in paragraph
(a), the relocation must be considered to be in the best interests of
the child unless another guardian satisfies the court otherwise.




(5)

If an application is made under this section and the relocating
guardian and another guardian have substantially equal parenting time
with the child, the relocating guardian must satisfy the court




(a)

of the factors described in subsection (4) (a), and




(b)

that the relocation is in the best interests of the child.




(6)

For the purposes of determining if the proposed relocation is made in
good faith, the court must consider all relevant factors, including
the following:




(a)

the reasons for the proposed relocation;




(b)

whether the proposed relocation is likely to enhance the general
quality of life of the child and, if applicable, of the relocating
guardian, including increasing emotional well-being or financial or
educational opportunities;




(c)

whether notice was given under section 66
[notice of relocation]
;




(d)

any restrictions on relocation contained in a written agreement or an
order.




(7)

In determining whether to make an order under this section, the court
must not consider whether a guardian would still relocate if the
child's relocation were not permitted.






If relocation permitted




70

(1)


If the court makes an order under section 69
[orders respecting relocation]
that permits a child's relocation, the court may make any of the
following orders:




(a)

subject to subsection (2) of this section, if the order made under
section 69 affects an agreement or order that allocates parenting
arrangements between the relocating guardian and another guardian, an
order under section 45
[orders respecting parenting arrangements]
or 47

[changing, suspending or terminating orders respecting parenting
arrangements]

, as applicable;




(b)

any order necessary to ensure that the relocating guardian complies
with the terms of the order permitting relocation, including an order
to do one or more of the following:




(i)

give security in any form the court directs;




(ii)

transfer specific property to a trustee named by the court.




(2)

In making an order under subsection (1), the court must seek to
preserve, to a reasonable extent, parenting arrangements under the
original agreement or order.






Not a change in circumstances




71


The fact that an order is made that prohibits a child's relocation is
not, in itself, a change in the child's circumstances for the purposes
of section 47

[changing, suspending or terminating orders respecting parenting
arrangements]

.




Division 7 — Extraprovincial Matters Respecting Parenting Arrangements





Definitions and interpretation




72

(1)


In this Division:



"extraprovincial order"

means an order of an extraprovincial tribunal that is similar in
nature to an order respecting guardianship, parenting arrangements or
contact with a child;



"extraprovincial tribunal"

means a court or tribunal, outside British Columbia, having authority
to make an extraprovincial order.




(2)

For the purposes of this Division, a child is habitually resident in
the place where the child most recently resided




(a)

with the child's parents,




(b)

if the parents are living separate and apart, with one parent




(i)

under an agreement,




(ii)

with the implied consent of the other parent, or




(iii)

under an order of a court or tribunal, or




(c)

with a person other than a parent on a permanent basis for a
significant period of time.




(3)

The removal or withholding of a child without the consent of a
guardian does not affect the child's habitual residence unless the
guardian from whom the child is being removed or withheld acquiesces
or delays in applying for an order of a court or an extraprovincial
tribunal.






Purposes




73


The purposes of this Division are as follows:




(a)

to ensure that court applications respecting guardianship, parenting
arrangements or contact with a child are determined on the basis of
the best interests of the child;




(b)

to avoid the making of orders respecting guardianship, parenting
arrangements or contact with a child, respecting the same child, in
more than one jurisdiction;




(c)

to discourage child abduction as an alternative to determining by due
process the guardianship of, or parenting arrangements with respect
to, a child;




(d)

to provide for effective enforcement of orders respecting
guardianship, parenting arrangements or contact with a child, and for
the recognition and enforcement of extraprovincial orders.






Determining whether to act under this Part




74

(1)


This section applies if an order respecting guardianship, parenting
arrangements or contact with a child may be made, respecting the same
child, in more than one jurisdiction.




(2)

Despite any other provision of this Part, a court may make an order
under this Part respecting guardianship, parenting arrangements or
contact with a child only if one of the following conditions is met:




(a)

the child is habitually resident in British Columbia when the
application is filed;




(b)

the child is not habitually resident in British Columbia when the
application is filed, but the court is satisfied that




(i)

the child is physically present in British Columbia when the
application is filed,




(ii)

substantial evidence concerning the best interests of the child is
available in British Columbia,




(iii)

no application for an extraprovincial order is pending before an
extraprovincial tribunal in a place where the child is habitually
resident,




(iv)

no extraprovincial order has been recognized by a court in British
Columbia,




(v)

the child has a real and substantial connection with British Columbia,
and




(vi)

on the balance of convenience, it is appropriate for jurisdiction to
be exercised in British Columbia;




(c)

the child is physically present in British Columbia and the court is
satisfied that the child would suffer serious harm if the child were
to




(i)

remain with, or be returned to, the child's guardian, or




(ii)

be removed from British Columbia.




(3)

A court may decline to make an order under this Part if the court
considers that it is more appropriate for jurisdiction to be exercised
outside British Columbia.






Recognition of extraprovincial orders




75

(1)


A court must recognize an extraprovincial order if all of the
following apply:




(a)

the extraprovincial tribunal would have had jurisdiction to make the
order under the rules that are applicable in British Columbia;




(b)

each party to a proceeding in which the extraprovincial order was made
had




(i)

reasonable notice that the order would be made, and




(ii)

a reasonable opportunity to be heard respecting the order;




(c)

the extraprovincial tribunal was required by law to consider the best
interests of the child;




(d)

it would not be contrary to public policy in British Columbia to
recognize the order.




(2)

On recognition by a court,




(a)

an extraprovincial order has the same effect, and may be enforced, as
if it were an order made under section 45
[orders respecting parenting arrangements]
, 51
[orders respecting guardianship]
or 59
[orders respecting contact]
, as applicable, and




(b)

the court may, if necessary to give effect to the extraprovincial
order, make any order that the court may make under this Act.




(3)

If an application is made to recognize more than one extraprovincial
order and the orders conflict, the court must recognize the order that
is most consistent with the best interests of the child.






Superseding extraprovincial orders




76

(1)


On application, a court may make an order that supersedes an
extraprovincial order that has been recognized under section 75
[recognition of extraprovincial orders]
if satisfied that




(a)

the child would suffer serious harm if that child were to




(i)

remain with, or be returned to, the child's guardian, or




(ii)

be removed from British Columbia, or




(b)

a change in circumstances affects, or is likely to affect, the best
interests of the child and subsection (2) of this section applies.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1) (b), an order may be made only if




(a)

the child is habitually resident in British Columbia when an
application is filed, or




(b)

the child is not habitually resident in British Columbia when the
application is filed, but the court is satisfied that




(i)

the circumstances described in section 74 (2) (b) (i), (ii), (v) and
(vi)
[determining whether to act under this Part]
apply, and




(ii)

the child no longer has a real and substantial connection with the
place where the extraprovincial order was made.






Wrongful removal of child




77

(1)


This section applies if a court




(a)

may not make an order or declines to make an order under section 74
[determining whether to act under this Part]
, or




(b)

is satisfied that a child has been wrongfully removed to, or is being
wrongfully retained in, British Columbia.




(2)

In the circumstances set out in subsection (1), a court may do one or
more of the following:




(a)

make any interim order that the court is satisfied is in the best
interests of the child;




(b)

stay an application to the court for an order, subject to




(i)

the condition that a party to the application promptly start a similar
proceeding before an extraprovincial tribunal, or




(ii)

any other conditions the court considers appropriate;




(c)

order a party to return the child to a place the court considers
appropriate and, in the discretion of the court, order a party to pay
all or part of the expenses reasonably and necessarily incurred for
travel and other expenses of the child and of any parties to or
witnesses in the proceeding.






Extraprovincial evidence




78

(1)


In this section,
"senior legal executive"
means the Attorney General, Minister of Justice or similar officer of
a place outside British Columbia.




(2)

If a court considers it necessary to receive evidence from a place
outside British Columbia before making an order respecting
guardianship, parenting arrangements or contact with a child, the
court may send to the senior legal executive of the place a request,
along with any necessary supporting material, that




(a)

the senior legal executive take any necessary action to require a
named person to attend before the proper tribunal in that place and
produce or give evidence respecting the subject matter of the
application, and




(b)

the senior legal executive, or the tribunal, send to the court a
certified copy of the evidence produced or given before the tribunal.




(3)

A court that acts under subsection (2) may order payment of all or
part of the expenses reasonably and necessarily incurred for the
purposes of this section.






Referral to court




79

(1)


If the Attorney General receives from an extraprovincial tribunal a
request similar to that referred to in section 78
[extraprovincial evidence]
, along with any necessary supporting material, the Attorney General
must refer the request and the material to the proper court.




(2)

A court to which the Attorney General refers a request under
subsection (1) must require the person named in the request to attend
before the court and produce or give evidence in accordance with the
request.




Division 8 — International Child Abduction





International child abduction




80

(1)


In this section,
"convention"
means the Convention on the Civil Aspects of International Child
Abduction signed at The Hague on October 25, 1980.




(2)

The definitions in the convention in relation to custody and access
apply to this Division for the purpose of applying the convention.




(3)

For the purpose of the convention, the Attorney General is the Central
Authority for British Columbia.




(4)

Subject to subsection (5), the provisions of the convention have the
force of law in British Columbia.




(5)

The government is not bound to assume any costs resulting from the
participation of legal counsel or advisors, or from a court
proceeding, in relation to applications submitted under the
convention, except to the extent that the costs are covered under
British Columbia's system of legal aid and advice.




(6)

Subsections (1) to (5) and the convention apply respecting a child
who, immediately before a breach of custody or access rights, was
habitually resident in a contracting state, but do not apply
respecting a child described in subsection (7).




(7)

Division 7
[Extraprovincial Matters Respecting Parenting Arrangements]
applies respecting




(a)

a child who is in Canada and who, immediately before a breach of
custody or access rights, was habitually resident in Canada,




(b)

a child who, immediately before a breach of custody or access rights,
was habitually resident in a state other than a contracting state,




(c)

a child who, immediately before a breach of custody or access rights,
was resident, but not habitually resident, in a contracting state, and




(d)

any other child affected by an extraprovincial order, other than a
child respecting whom subsections (1) to (5) of this section and the
convention apply.




Contents
|


Part 1
|


Part 2
|


Part 3
|

Part 4 |

Part 5
|


Part 6
|


Part 7
|


Part 8
|


Part 9
|


Part 10
|


Part 11
|


Part 12
|


Part 13
|


Part 14




