





View Complete Statute



Motor Vehicle Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 318



Part 4





24-hour prohibition




215

(1)


In this section:



"approved screening device"

means a device prescribed by the Lieutenant Governor in Council for
the purposes of this section;


"driver"
includes a person having the care or control of a motor vehicle on a
highway or industrial road whether or not the motor vehicle is in
motion.




(2)

A peace officer may, at any time or place on a highway or industrial
road if the peace officer has reasonable grounds to believe that a
driver's ability to drive a motor vehicle is affected by alcohol,




(a)

request the driver to drive the motor vehicle, under the direction of
the peace officer, to the nearest place off the travelled portion of
the highway or industrial road,




(b)

serve the driver with a notice of driving prohibition, and




(c)

if the driver is in possession of a driver's licence, request the
driver to surrender that licence.




(3)

A peace officer may, at any time or place on a highway or industrial
road if the peace officer has reasonable grounds to believe that a
driver's ability to drive a motor vehicle is affected by a drug, other
than alcohol,




(a)

request the driver to drive the motor vehicle, under the direction of
the peace officer, to the nearest place off the travelled portion of
the highway or industrial road,




(b)

serve the driver with a notice of driving prohibition, and




(c)

if the driver is in possession of a driver's licence, request the
driver to surrender that licence.




(4)

If a peace officer requests a driver to surrender their driver's
licence under this section, the driver must forthwith surrender to the
peace officer their driver's licence issued under this Act or any
document issued in another jurisdiction that allows the driver to
drive or operate a motor vehicle.




(5)

Unless the prohibition from driving a motor vehicle is terminated
under subsection (6) or (8), the driver is automatically prohibited
from driving a motor vehicle for a period of 24 hours from the time
the peace officer served the driver with a notice of driving
prohibition under subsection (2) or (3).




(6)

If a driver, who is served with a notice of driving prohibition under
subsection (2), forthwith requests a peace officer to administer and
does undergo as soon as practicable a test that indicates that the
driver's blood alcohol level does not exceed 50 mg of alcohol in 100
mL of blood, the prohibition from driving is terminated.




(6.1)

A test referred to in subsection (6) may be performed with an approved
screening device.




(6.2)

Despite subsection (6), a driver who is served with a notice of
driving prohibition does not have a right to request or undergo a test
under subsection (6) if




(a)

the peace officer who served the notice first performed a test of the
driver's blood alcohol level with an approved screening device,




(b)

the test indicated that the driver's blood alcohol level exceeded 50
mg of alcohol in 100mL of blood, and




(c)

the peace officer used the results of the test as part of the basis on
which the peace officer formed reasonable grounds to believe that the
driver's ability to drive a motor vehicle was affected by alcohol.




(7)

[Repealed 2004-68-18.]




(8)

If a driver who is served with a notice of driving prohibition under
subsection (3)




(a)

forthwith requests a peace officer to administer and does undergo as
soon as practicable a prescribed physical coordination test, and




(b)

satisfies a peace officer having charge of the matter that the
driver's ability to drive a motor vehicle is not affected by a drug
other than alcohol,

the prohibition from driving is terminated.



(8.1)

Despite subsection (8), a driver who is served with a notice of
driving prohibition does not have a right to request or undergo a test
under subsection (8) (a) if




(a)

the peace officer who served the notice first administered a
prescribed physical coordination test, and




(b)

the peace officer used the results of the test as part of the basis on
which the peace officer formed reasonable grounds to believe that the
driver's ability to drive a motor vehicle was affected by a drug other
than alcohol.




(9)

A peace officer acting under subsection (2) need not hold the opinion
that the blood alcohol level of the driver exceeds 50 mg of alcohol in
100 mL of blood.





(
10
)



If a peace officer serves a notice of driving prohibition under
subsection (2) (b) or (3) (b), the peace officer
must promptly forward to the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia






(
a
)



a certificate of service, showing that the notice of driving
prohibition was personally served on the person subject to the
driving prohibition,






(
b
)



a copy of the notice of driving prohibition, and






(
c
)


a report of the driving prohibition.




(11)

The report referred to in subsection (10) must be in a form
established by the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia.




(12)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may prescribe an approved screening
device and physical coordination tests for the purposes of this
section.






Review of driving prohibition




215.1

(1)


A person may, within the prescribed number of days after being served
with a notice of driving prohibition under section 215 (2) or (3),
apply to the superintendent for a review of the driving prohibition by




(a)

filing an application for review with the superintendent, and




(b)

paying to the superintendent the application fee prescribed by the
Lieutenant Governor in Council.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may prescribe the number of days, which number must not be less than
7, within which a person may apply for a review of a driving
prohibition.




(3)

An application for review must be in the form, contain the information
and be completed in the manner required by the superintendent.




(4)

An applicant may attach to the application for review any written
statements or other evidence that the applicant wishes the
superintendent to consider.




(5)

The superintendent must conduct a review under this section on the
basis of written submissions and must not hold an oral hearing.






Considerations




215.2


In a review of a driving prohibition under section 215.1, the
superintendent may only consider




(a)

the report of the prohibition delivered under section 215 (10) and
other relevant information provided by the peace officer with the
report, and




(b)

relevant information provided by the person on whom the notice of
driving prohibition was served.






Decision of the superintendent




215.3

(1)


The burden of proof in a review of a driving prohibition under section
215.1 is on the person on whom the notice of driving prohibition was
served.




(2)

If, after considering an application for review under section 215.1,
the superintendent is satisfied by the person that




(a)

in the case of a notice of driving prohibition served under
section 215 (2) (b), the person on whom the notice was
served had the right to request and did request that the peace officer
administer a test to indicate the person's blood alcohol level but the
peace officer failed to provide the person with the opportunity to
undergo the test,




(a.1)

in the case of a notice of driving prohibition served under
section 215 (3) (b), the person on whom the notice was
served had the right to request and did request that the peace office
administer a physical coordination test but the peace officer failed
to provide the person with the opportunity to undergo the test, or




(b)

the person was not a driver within the meaning of section 215 (1),


the superintendent must revoke the driving prohibition.






24-hour impoundment of motor vehicle




215.4

(1)


If a peace officer serves a driver with a notice of driving
prohibition under section 215 (2) or (3), the peace
officer may, if the peace officer believes that impoundment is
necessary to prevent the driver from driving or operating the motor
vehicle before the prohibition expires, immediately cause the motor
vehicle that the driver was operating or of which the driver had care
or control to be taken to a place directed by the peace officer and
impounded there for a period of 24 hours.




(2)

If a peace officer is satisfied that the impoundment of a motor
vehicle under subsection (1) would




(a)

jeopardize the safety of the occupants of the motor vehicle, or




(b)

leave the occupants stranded,


the peace officer must arrange for transportation of the occupants of
the motor vehicle to the nearest safe area where they can summon an
alternative form of transportation.




(3)

The owner or driver of a motor vehicle that is impounded under
subsection (1) may remove any cargo or other personal property that is
in or on the motor vehicle.




(4)

If a motor vehicle is impounded under subsection (1), the peace
officer must take all reasonable steps to notify the owner of the
motor vehicle.




(5)

A person must not remove or permit the removal of a motor vehicle from
the place where it is impounded under subsection (1) before the end of
the 24 hour period unless the person is authorized to do so by a peace
officer or a court.




(6)

All the costs and charges for towing, care and storage of a motor
vehicle impounded under subsection (1) are a lien on the motor
vehicle, and the lien may be enforced in the manner provided under the

Warehouse Lien Act

.






Immediate roadside driving prohibition




215.41

(1)


In this section,
"driver"
includes a person having the care or control of a motor vehicle on a
highway or industrial road whether or not the motor vehicle is in
motion.




(2)

In this section and in sections 215.42, 215.43, 215.47, 215.49 and
215.5:



"approved screening device"

means a device prescribed by the Lieutenant Governor in Council for
the purposes of this section;


"fail"
means an indication on an approved screening device that the
concentration of alcohol in a person's blood is not less than 80
milligrams of alcohol in 100 millilitres of blood;


"warn"
means an indication on an approved screening device that the
concentration of alcohol in a person's blood is not less than 50
milligrams of alcohol in 100 millilitres of blood.




(3)

[Repealed 2012-26-1.]




(3.1)

If, at any time or place on a highway or industrial road,




(a)

a peace officer makes a demand to a driver under the

Criminal Code

to provide a sample of breath for analysis by means of an approved
screening device and the approved screening device registers a warn or
a fail, and




(b)

the peace officer has reasonable grounds to believe, as a result of
the analysis, that the driver's ability to drive is affected by
alcohol,


the peace officer, or another peace officer, must,




(c)

if the driver holds a valid licence or permit issued under this Act,
or a document issued in another jurisdiction that allows the driver to
operate a motor vehicle, take possession of the driver's licence,
permit or document if the driver has it in the driver's possession,
and




(d)

subject to section 215.42, serve on the driver a notice of driving
prohibition.




(4)

If a peace officer has reasonable grounds to believe that a driver
failed or refused, without reasonable excuse, to comply with a demand
made under the

Criminal Code

to provide a sample of breath for analysis by means of an approved
screening device, the peace officer, or another peace officer, must
take those actions described in subsection (3.1) (c) and
(d).




(5)

If the driver is not in possession of the driver's licence or permit
issued under this Act to operate a motor vehicle at the time the
driver is served with the notice of driving prohibition, the driver
must promptly send the licence or permit to the Insurance Corporation
of British Columbia.




(6)

The notice of driving prohibition must be in the prescribed form and
must contain the following:




(a)

a statement that the driver is immediately prohibited from driving,
for the period set out in the notice of prohibition;




(b)

a statement setting out




(i)

the amount of any monetary penalty imposed on the driver under
section 215.44, and




(ii)

the requirement that the monetary penalty be paid no later than
30 days after the date the notice is served;




(c)

a statement of the right to have the driving prohibition reviewed by
the superintendent under section 215.48;




(d)

instructions describing how to apply for that review.




(7)

A notice of driving prohibition must not be served on a person under
this section if a notice of driving prohibition is served on the
person under section 94.1.






Right to second analysis




215.42

(1)


If an analysis of the breath of a person by means of an approved
screening device under section 215.41 (3.1) registers a warn or a
fail,




(a)

the person has a right to forthwith request and be provided with a
second analysis, and




(b)

a peace officer must inform the person of that right before the peace
officer serves on the person a notice of driving prohibition.




(2)

A second analysis performed under this section must be performed with
a different approved screening device than was used in the first
analysis.




(3)

If a person provides a sample of breath for a second analysis in
accordance with this section, the lower of the first and second
analysis results governs for the purposes of section 215.41 (3.1).






Effect of driving prohibition under section 215.41




215.43

(1)


If a person is served with a notice of driving prohibition under
section 215.41 in circumstances where an approved screening device
registers a warn, the person is prohibited from driving for




(a)

3 days, in the case of a first prohibition,




(b)

7 days, in the case of a second prohibition, or




(c)

30 days, in the case of a subsequent prohibition.




(2)

[Repealed 2012-26-3.]




(2.1)

If a person is served with a notice of driving prohibition under
section 215.41 in circumstances where




(a)

an approved screening device registers a fail, or




(b)

the person refuses or fails to comply with a demand as described in
section 215.41 (4),


the person is prohibited from driving for a period of 90 days.




(3)

A driving prohibition under this section




(a)

takes effect immediately on service of the notice of driving
prohibition under section 215.41, and




(b)

unless revoked under this Act, continues in effect until the end of
the last day of the driving prohibition as calculated in accordance
with subsection (3.1).




(3.1)

Despite subsection (3) (a), the last day of a driving prohibition must
be calculated so that the period of days specified by this section for
the driving prohibition is in addition to the day on which the notice
of driving prohibition under section 215.41 is served.




(4)

For the purposes of subsection (1), a prohibition is




(a)

a first prohibition if a person has not been subject to a previous
prohibition under that subsection within the 5 year period preceding
the prohibition,




(b)

a second prohibition if a person has been subject to one previous
prohibition under that subsection within the 5 year period preceding
the prohibition, and




(c)

a subsequent prohibition if the person has been subject to 2 or more
previous prohibitions under that subsection within the 5 year period
preceding the prohibition.




(5)

For the purposes of determining whether a prohibition is a second or
subsequent prohibition, the prohibition must not be considered to be a
previous prohibition unless




(a)

the period for requesting a review of the prohibition under section
215.48 has expired, or




(b)

if the person requests a review of the prohibition, the period
referred to under section 215.5 (6) or (7), as applicable, has
expired.






Additional consequences — monetary penalty




215.44

(1)


A person who has been served with a notice of driving prohibition
under section 215.41 is also liable to pay, no later than 30 days
after the date the notice is served, a monetary penalty in the amount
prescribed by regulation.




(2)

The monetary penalty must not exceed the amount prescribed by
regulation, and in any event must not exceed $500.






Repealed




215.45


[Repealed 2015-13-25.]






Additional consequences — impoundment of vehicle




215.46

(1)


If a peace officer serves a person with a notice of a 3-day or 7-day
driving prohibition under section 215.41 (3.1) and believes that
impoundment of the motor vehicle that the person was driving or
operating at the time the notice was served is necessary to prevent
the person from driving or operating the motor vehicle before the
prohibition expires, the peace officer may cause the motor vehicle to
be taken to and impounded at a place directed by the peace officer.




(2)

If a peace officer serves a person with a notice of a 30-day or 90-day
driving prohibition under section 215.41, the peace officer must cause
the motor vehicle that the person was driving or operating at the time
the notice was served to be taken to and impounded at a place directed
by the peace officer.






Duties of peace officer related to driving prohibition under section
215.41




215.47


A peace officer who serves a notice of driving prohibition on a person
under section 215.41 must promptly forward to the superintendent




(a)

the person's licence or permit or any document issued in another
jurisdiction that allows the person to operate a motor vehicle, if the
peace officer took the licence, permit or document into possession,




(b)

a copy of the notice of driving prohibition,




(c)

a certificate of service, in the form established by the
superintendent, showing that the notice of driving prohibition was
personally served on the person subject to the driving prohibition,




(d)

a report, in the form established by the superintendent, sworn or
solemnly affirmed by the peace officer, and




(e)

in the case of a driving prohibition resulting from the analysis of a
sample of breath, information relating to the calibration of the
approved screening device on the basis of which the notice of driving
prohibition was served.






Review of driving prohibition under section 215.41




215.48

(1)


A person may, within 7 days of being served with a notice of driving
prohibition under section 215.41, apply to the superintendent for a
review of the driving prohibition by




(a)

filing an application for review with the superintendent,




(b)

paying to the superintendent the prescribed hearing fee, and




(c)

if it has not been taken by the peace officer or sent to the
superintendent under section 215.41, surrendering to the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia the person's licence or permit to
operate a motor vehicle unless the person completes and files with the
superintendent a statutory declaration stating that the licence or
permit has been lost, stolen or destroyed.




(2)

An application for review must be in the form, contain the information
and be completed in the manner required by the superintendent.




(3)

An applicant may attach to the application for review any statements
or other evidence that the applicant wishes the superintendent to
consider.




(4)

The filing of an application for review does not stay the driving
prohibition.




(5)

The superintendent is not required to hold an oral hearing unless




(a)

the driving prohibition is for 30 or 90 days, and




(b)

the applicant




(i)

requests an oral hearing at the time of filing the application for
review, and




(ii)

pays the prescribed oral hearing fees.




(6)

If a person requests an oral hearing and fails to appear on the date
and at the time and place arranged for the hearing, without prior
notice to the superintendent, the right to an oral hearing is deemed
to have been waived by the person.




(7)

Despite sections 215.49 and 215.5, if




(a)

a person applies for a review of a driving prohibition under
subsection (1) of this section in accordance with subsection (2), and




(b)

by the end of the period of time specified in subsection (1), the
superintendent has not received the sworn or solemnly affirmed report
required to be forwarded under section 215.47 (d),

the superintendent must



(c)

revoke the driving prohibition,




(d)

cancel the monetary penalty for which the person would otherwise be
liable under section 215.44 and, in respect of any impoundment,
section 253 (8) applies,




(e)

if the person held a valid licence or permit issued under this Act to
operate a motor vehicle at the time the notice of driving prohibition
was served under section 215.41, direct the Insurance Corporation
of British Columbia to return any licence or permit to operate a motor
vehicle taken into possession by the peace officer or sent to the
corporation, and




(f)

give the person notice of the matters referred to in paragraphs (b) to
(e).






Considerations on review under section 215.48




215.49

(1)


In a review of a driving prohibition under section 215.48, the
superintendent must consider




(a)

any relevant statements and evidence submitted to the superintendent,




(b)

the report of the peace officer forwarded under section 215.47 (d),




(c)

a copy of the notice of driving prohibition,




(d)

any other relevant documents and information forwarded to the
superintendent by the peace officer who served the notice of driving
prohibition or any other peace officer, including peace officers'
reports that have not been sworn or solemnly affirmed,




(e)

in the case of an oral hearing, any relevant evidence given or
representations made at the hearing, and




(f)

in the case of a second or subsequent prohibition, as described in
section 215.43 (4) and (5), the person's driving
record.




(2)

In a review under section 215.48, no person may be cross examined.




(3)

Despite subsection (1) but subject to section 215.48 (7), the
superintendent may, in the superintendent's discretion, proceed with a
hearing and render a decision whether or not the superintendent has
received all those documents required to be forwarded to the
superintendent under section 215.47.




(4)

The superintendent may determine the weight to be given to any
document or other information referred to in subsection (1) or (5),
including any document or information that is not sworn or solemnly
affirmed.




(5)

In a review of a driving prohibition under section 215.48, the
superintendent may, on the superintendent's own initiative, consider
any statements, evidence, technical materials and other records and
information, that, in the opinion of the superintendent, may assist
the superintendent in making a decision.




(6)

In subsection (5),
"technical materials"
means technical, medical or scientific evidence or information and
includes




(a)

manuals and training materials relating to, and documents provided by
the manufacturer of, an approved screening device,




(b)

summaries of technical, medical or scientific evidence or information
that are prepared by the superintendent, and




(c)

documents that are prescribed or in a prescribed class of documents.






Decision of superintendent after review under section 215.48




215.5

(1)


The burden of proof in a review of a driving prohibition under section
215.48 is on the person on whom the notice of driving prohibition was
served.




(2)

Subject to subsection (4), if, after considering an application for
review under section 215.48, the superintendent is satisfied by
the person that,




(a)

in the case of a 7-day driving prohibition, the prohibition was a
first prohibition, or




(b)

in the case of a 30-day driving prohibition, the prohibition was
either




(i)

a first prohibition, or




(ii)

a second prohibition,

the superintendent must



(c)

substitute




(i)

a 3-day driving prohibition, in the circumstances described in
paragraph (a) or (b) (i), or




(ii)

a 7-day driving prohibition, in the circumstances described in
paragraph (b) (ii), and




(d)

vary accordingly the monetary penalty for which the person is liable
under section 215.44 and, in respect of any impoundment, section
253 (8) applies.




(3)

[Repealed 2012-26-7.]




(4)

If, after considering an application for review under section 215.48,
the superintendent is satisfied by the person that the person was not
a driver within the meaning of section 215.41 (1) or is
satisfied by the person that,




(a)

in respect of a 3-day, 7-day or 30-day driving prohibition,




(i)

the person was not advised of the person's right to forthwith request
and be provided with a second analysis under section 215.42 (1),




(ii)

the second analysis, if the person requested a second analysis, was
not provided or not performed with a different approved screening
device than was used in the first analysis or the notice of driving
prohibition was not served on the basis of the lower analysis result,




(iii)

the approved screening device did not register a warn or the approved
screening device did not register the warn as a result of the
concentration of alcohol in the person's blood being not less than
50 milligrams of alcohol in 100 millilitres of blood, or




(iv)

the result of the analysis on the basis of which the notice of driving
prohibition was served was not reliable,




(b)

in respect of a 90-day driving prohibition resulting from a sample of
breath for analysis by means of an approved screening device and the
approved screening device registering a fail,




(i)

the person was not advised of the person's right to forthwith request
and be provided with a second analysis under section 215.42 (1),




(ii)

the second analysis, if the person requested a second analysis, was
not provided or not performed with a different approved screening
device than was used in the first analysis and the notice of driving
prohibition was not served on the person on the basis of the lower
analysis result,




(iii)

the approved screening device did not register a fail or the approved
screening device did not register the fail as a result of the
concentration of alcohol in the person's blood being not less than
80 milligrams of alcohol in 100 millilitres of blood, or




(iv)

the result of the analysis on the basis of which the notice of driving
prohibition was served was not reliable, or




(c)

in respect of a 90-day driving prohibition resulting from a failure or
refusal, without reasonable excuse, to comply with a demand described
in section 215.41 (4), the person did not fail or refuse or
had a reasonable excuse for failing or refusing to comply with the
demand,

the superintendent must



(d)

revoke the driving prohibition,




(e)

cancel the monetary penalty for which the person would otherwise be
liable under section 215.44 and, in respect of any impoundment,
section 253 (8) applies, and




(f)

if the person held a valid licence or permit issued under this Act to
operate a motor vehicle at the time the notice of driving prohibition
was served under section 215.41, direct the Insurance Corporation
of British Columbia to return any licence or permit to operate a motor
vehicle taken into possession by the peace officer or sent to the
corporation.




(5)

[Repealed 2012-26-7.]




(6)

Subject to subsection (7), the decision of the superintendent and the
reasons for the decision must be in writing and a copy must be sent to
the applicant within 21 days of the date the notice of driving
prohibition was served on the applicant under section 215.41.




(7)

If the superintendent is unable to send the decision to the applicant
within the 21 day period set out in subsection (6), the superintendent
may extend that period for a period determined by the superintendent.




(8)

If the superintendent extends the period for sending a decision to the
applicant under subsection (7), the superintendent may




(a)

stay the driving prohibition imposed on the applicant under section
215.43 for the period of the extension determined under subsection
(7), and




(b)

if the applicant held a valid licence or permit issued under this Act
to operate a motor vehicle at the time the applicant was served with
the notice of driving prohibition under section 215.41, direct the
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia to issue to the applicant a
temporary driver's licence that expires with the period of extension
determined under subsection (7).




(9)

The superintendent must promptly give the person notice of an
extension made under subsection (7).




(10)

The copy referred to in subsection (6) and the notice referred to in
subsection (9) must be sent to the person




(a)

at the last known address of the person as shown in the records
maintained by the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia, or




(b)

at the address shown in the application for review, if that address is
different from the address in the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia's records.




(11)

A notice of extension given under subsection (9) is deemed to be a
notice of prohibition for the purposes of section 95 (4) (a) or (b).






Regulations — immediate roadside driving prohibitions




215.51


Without limiting the authority of the Lieutenant Governor in Council
to make regulations under any other provision of this Act, the
Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations as follows:




(a)

prescribing an approved screening device for the purposes of the
definition of "approved screening device" in section 215.41 (2);




(b)

prescribing the form of notice of driving prohibition for the purposes
of section 215.41 (6);




(c)

for the purposes of section 215.44,




(i)

prescribing monetary penalties, including prescribing a schedule of
increasing monetary penalties based on whether a driving prohibition
is a first, second or subsequent prohibition as described in section
215.43 (4), and




(ii)

prescribing the manner for payment of monetary penalties;




(d)

prescribing hearing fees, including oral hearing fees, for the
purposes of section 215.48;




(e)

[Not in force.]




(f)

prescribing documents or classes of documents for the purposes of the
definition of "technical materials" in section 215.49 (6).






Vehicle inspections




216

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations as follows:




(a)

requiring the inspection as to safety, emissions and repair of
prescribed classes of vehicles and may provide differently for
different




(i)

types of inspections,




(ii)

classes of vehicles, and




(iii)

areas of British Columbia;




(b)

providing for notification by the director or a peace officer to the
owner or operator of a vehicle of a prescribed class requiring the
owner or operator, within the period set out in the notification, to
present the vehicle for inspection at a facility, or any one of a
class of facilities, designated in the notification;




(c)

providing for the duties and responsibilities of persons who are
authorized under section 217 and of operators of facilities that
are designated under that section respecting inspections of vehicles;




(c.1)

prescribing grounds for which the director can cancel an authorization
or designation granted to a person under section 217 (1) (a) or (b)
respecting inspection of vehicles;




(d)

prescribing the form and period of validity of an inspection
certificate of approval or interim inspection certificate and
requiring a vehicle that has been inspected to bear an inspection
certificate of approval or interim inspection certificate;




(e)

prescribing




(i)

fees or the method of determining the amount of fees payable to the
government in respect of inspections of vehicles and in respect of
applications for and any consultations relating to the issuance of
authorizations, designations and exemptions under section 217,
and




(ii)

charges payable, by persons required to present vehicles for
inspection, to operators, other than the government, of facilities
designated under section 217;




(f)

prohibiting the operation, driving or parking on a highway and
requiring surrender of the vehicle licence and corresponding number
plates of a vehicle that is required to be presented for inspection
and




(i)

is not presented for inspection as required,




(ii)

does not pass inspection, or




(iii)

does not bear a valid inspection certificate of approval or interim
inspection certificate;




(g)

requiring the owners of prescribed classes of vehicles to maintain
their vehicles in accordance with prescribed standards, and
prescribing those standards;




(h)

requiring owners and drivers of prescribed classes of vehicles to keep
records respecting the use and maintenance of the vehicles.




(2)

The minister, for and on behalf of the government, may enter into an
agreement or arrangement with a municipality or treaty first nation to
implement regulations made under subsection (1), and the municipality
or treaty first nation may, by resolution, enter into the agreement or
arrangement.




(3) and (4)

[Not in force.]




(5)

The director or a person empowered to exercise the powers and perform
the duties of a constable or peace officer in regulations made under
section 210 (3) (n) may inspect and audit at reasonable times, on
designated facility premises,




(a)

the premises,




(b)

[Not in force.]




(c)

equipment and reference materials required to be kept under section
217 (2) (c), and




(d)

vehicles that have been inspected by a person authorized under section
217 (1) (a).






Inspectors, inspection facilities and standards




217

(1)


For the purposes of section 216, the director may




(a)

authorize persons to inspect vehicles,




(b)

designate facilities operated by the government or a municipality or
other person as facilities for different classes of inspections, and




(c)

on conditions the Lieutenant Governor in Council requires, exempt a
vehicle from inspection.




(1.1)

The director may do one or both of the following:




(a)

impose conditions on an authorization or designation referred to in
subsection (1) at the time the director makes the authorization or
designation or at another time during which the authorization or
designation is in effect;




(b)

make an authorization or designation referred to in subsection (1)
subject to a specified term.




(2)

For the purposes of section 216, the minister may, by regulation, do
one or more of the following:




(a)

establish standards of, and criteria and guidelines for, inspections
relating to safety and repair for different classes of vehicles;




(b)

prescribe standards of inspections or establish standards of, and
criteria and guidelines for, inspections relating to emissions for
different classes of vehicles;




(c)

set out requirements that must be met or guidelines that must be
followed by the persons who are designated under subsection (1)
relating to maintenance of the facility and equipment and reference
materials that must be kept at a designated facility;




(d)

governing the manner in which persons authorized under subsection (1)
must perform inspections.




(2.1)

In making a regulation under subsection (2), the minister may adopt
with or without modification one or more or a part of the provisions
of a code, standard or rule respecting vehicle safety, emission or
repair, as they may be amended from time to time before or after the
making of the regulation, including, without limiting this, a standard
set by the Canadian Council of Motor Transport Administrators.




(3)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may provide by regulation that




(a)

contravention of




(i)

a regulation of the minister under subsection (2) by a person who is
authorized or designated under subsection (1), or




(ii)

a standard prescribed by the minister under section 218 (2),

constitutes an offence, and



(b)

a person who commits an offence under paragraph (a) is liable to a
penalty not greater than the penalties provided under the

Offence Act

.






Standards and approvals




218

(1)


The director may do one or more of the following:




(a)

designate equipment or classes of equipment for which approval by the
director is required as a condition precedent to the first retail sale
of the equipment;




(b)

approve equipment conforming to the safety or emissions standards
prescribed by the minister under subsection (2).




(c)

[Repealed 2003-11-23.]




(2)

The minister may prescribe safety or emissions standards for a vehicle
or its equipment that is offered for sale, exposed or displayed for
sale, sold or delivered to a purchaser for use.






Driver control programs




218.1


The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia may require drivers of
classes of vehicles prescribed by the minister to participate in
driver control programs.






Equipment of motor vehicles




219

(1)


A person must not drive or operate a motor vehicle or trailer on a
highway or rent a motor vehicle or trailer unless it is equipped in
all respects in compliance with this Act and the regulations.




(2)

A peace officer




(a)

may require a person who carries on the business of renting vehicles
or who is the owner or person in charge of a vehicle




(i)

to allow the peace officer to inspect a vehicle offered by the person
for rental or owned by or in charge of the person, or




(ii)

to move a vehicle described in subparagraph (i) to a place designated
by the peace officer and to allow the vehicle to be inspected there by
the peace officer, or, at the expense of the person required, to
present the vehicle for inspection by a person authorized under
section 217, and




(b)

must remove any inspection certificate of approval affixed to the
vehicle if, in the opinion of the peace officer or a person authorized
under section 217, the vehicle is unsafe for use on a highway.




(3)

An owner of a motor vehicle or trailer must not permit it to be driven
or operated on a highway unless it is equipped in all respects in
compliance with this Act and the regulations.




(4)

In subsection (3),
"owner"
means




(a)

the owner, or




(b)

in the case of a vehicle that is leased for a term of 30 days or
more, the person who leases the vehicle.






Seat belt assembly




220

(1)


In this section,
"seat belt assembly"
means a device or assembly suitably fastened to the motor vehicle
composed of straps, webbing or similar material that restrains the
movement of a person in order to prevent or mitigate injury to the
person and includes a pelvic restraint, an upper torso restraint or
both of them.




(2)

A person must not sell, offer for sale or operate on a highway a motor
vehicle required to be registered and licensed only under this Act and
manufactured or assembled after December 1, 1963, other than
a motorcycle, unless it is equipped with not less than 2 seat belt
assemblies for use in the front seat in accordance with the
regulations.




(3)

A person must not drive or operate a motor vehicle on a highway in
which a seat belt assembly required under this section or the

Motor Vehicle Safety Act

(Canada) at the time the motor vehicle was manufactured, assembled or
imported into Canada has been removed, rendered partly or wholly
inoperative, or modified to reduce its effectiveness.




(4)

A person in a motor vehicle being driven or operated on a highway
must, if the motor vehicle has properly attached to it a seat belt
assembly for the seating position occupied by that person, wear the
complete seat belt assembly in a properly adjusted and securely
fastened manner.




(5)

Subsection (4) does not apply to a person




(a)

driving a motor vehicle in reverse,




(b)

[Repealed 2010-14-20.]




(c)

who is actually engaged in work that requires the person to alight
from and re-enter the motor vehicle at frequent intervals and who,
while engaged in that work, does not drive or travel in that vehicle
at a speed exceeding 40 km/h, or




(d)

under age 16.




(6)

A person must not drive on a highway a motor vehicle in which there is
a passenger who has attained age 6 but is under age 16 and who
occupies a seating position for which a seat belt assembly is provided
unless that passenger is wearing the complete seat belt assembly in a
properly adjusted and securely fastened manner.




(7)

Subsection (6) does not apply if the passenger




(a)

[Repealed 2010-14-20.]




(b)

is actually engaged in work that requires the passenger to alight from
and re-enter the motor vehicle at frequent intervals and the motor
vehicle does not travel at a speed exceeding 40 km/h.




(8)

Despite this section, if a seat belt assembly consists of a pelvic
restraint and a separate upper torso restraint, only the pelvic
restraint need be worn.




(9)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations as follows:




(a)

requiring the use of child seating and restraint systems in motor
vehicles on highways and prescribing the specifications for them;




(b)

defining the age of a child for the purpose of paragraph (a);




(c)

providing for the exemption from any provision of this section of any




(i)

type or class of motor vehicle, and




(ii)

class or group of drivers or passengers in motor vehicles.




(10)

A person who contravenes this section commits an offence.






Repealed




221


[Repealed 2010-14-5.]






Sale of motor vehicle contrary to regulations




222


A person must not sell, offer for sale, expose or display for sale or
deliver over to a purchaser for use a motor vehicle, trailer or
equipment for them that is not in accordance with this Act and the
regulations.






Canada Safety Standards




223

(1)


A manufacturer or distributor of a motor vehicle or trailer
manufactured in British Columbia for sale in British Columbia and a
dealer must not sell, offer for sale, display for sale or deliver over
to a person for use a new motor vehicle or trailer of a class
prescribed by the

Motor Vehicle Safety Act

(Canada) unless the motor vehicle or trailer and its components comply
with safety standards prescribed in the

Motor Vehicle Safety Act

(Canada) and the regulations under it, bear the National Safety Mark
and display the statement of compliance as required by those
regulations.




(2)

A distributor or dealer must not modify or alter a new motor vehicle
or trailer, or exchange components of a new motor vehicle or trailer
of a class for which standards are prescribed, in a manner that the
motor vehicle or trailer does not comply with the safety standards
prescribed in the

Motor Vehicle Safety Act

(Canada) and the regulations made under it.




(3)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations prohibiting




(a)

the installation of components in a motor vehicle or trailer or the
removal or alteration of any components of a motor vehicle or trailer
if the installation, alteration or removal affects or is likely to
affect the functioning of the motor vehicle or trailer so that it no
longer meets the safety standards that were, at the time of its first
retail sale, applicable to it and its components under the

Motor Vehicle Safety Act

(Canada), and




(b)

the operation, driving or parking on a highway of a motor vehicle or
trailer in which a component has been installed or altered or from
which a component has been removed contrary to a regulation made under
paragraph (a).






Repealed




224-229


[Repealed 2020-9-21.]






Report of health professional




230

(1)


This section applies to every legally qualified and registered
psychologist, optometrist, medical practitioner and nurse
practitioner who has a patient 16 years of age or older who




(a)

in the opinion of the psychologist, optometrist, medical practitioner
or nurse practitioner has a medical condition that makes it dangerous
to the patient or to the public for the patient to drive a motor
vehicle, and




(b)

continues to drive a motor vehicle after being warned of the danger by
the psychologist, optometrist, medical practitioner or nurse
practitioner.




(2)

Every psychologist, optometrist, medical practitioner and nurse
practitioner referred to in subsection (1) must report to the
superintendent the name, address and medical condition of a patient
referred to in subsection (1).




(3)

No action for damages lies or may be brought against a psychologist,
an optometrist, a medical practitioner or a nurse practitioner for
making a report under this section, unless the psychologist,
optometrist, medical practitioner or nurse practitioner made the
report falsely and maliciously.






Not in force




231


[Not in force.]






Smoking in motor vehicle prohibited




231.1

(1)


In this section,
"activated e-cigarette"
,
"e-cigarette"
and
"tobacco"
have the same meaning as in the

Tobacco and Vapour Products Control Act

.




(2)

A person must not smoke tobacco, hold lighted tobacco, use an
e-cigarette or hold an activated e-cigarette in a motor vehicle that
is occupied by a person under the age of 16 years, whether or not any
window, sunroof, car-top, door or other feature of the vehicle is
open.




(3)

A person who contravenes subsection (2) commits an offence.




(4)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations exempting any
person or class of persons from the requirements of this section and
prescribing conditions for those exemptions.




Contents
|


Part 1
|


Part 2
|


Part 2.1
|


Part 2.2
|


Part 3
|


Part 3.1
|

Part 4 |

Part 5
|


Part 6
|


Part 7
|


Part 8
|


Part 9
|



Part 10 to 12

|


Part 13




