





View Complete Statute



Family Law Act
[SBC 2011] CHAPTER 25



Part 13 — Transitional Provisions





Definition




250


In this Part,
"former Act"
means the

Family Relations Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 128, as it read immediately before its repeal by
this Act.






Transition — care of and time with children




251

(1)


If an agreement or order, made before the coming into force of this
section, provides a party with




(a)

custody or guardianship of a child, the party is a guardian of the
child under this Act and has parental responsibilities and parenting
time with respect to the child under this Act, or




(b)

access to, but not custody or guardianship of, a child, the party has
contact with the child under this Act.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1), a party's parental
responsibilities, parenting time or contact with a child under this
Act are as described in the agreement or order respecting custody,
guardianship and access.






Transition — proceeding respecting property division




252

(1)


This section applies despite the repeal of the former Act and the
enactment of Part 5
[Property Division]
of this Act.




(2)

Unless the spouses agree otherwise,




(a)

a proceeding to enforce, set aside or replace an agreement respecting
property division made before the coming into force of this section,
or




(b)

a proceeding respecting property division started under the former Act


must be started or continued, as applicable, under the former Act as
if the former Act had not been repealed.






Transition — pension benefits




253

(1)


[Repealed 2023-12-23.]




(2)

If a spouse became a limited member under the former Act but benefits
have not been divided as of the date Part 6 of this Act comes into
force, Part 6 of this Act applies to the division of benefits.




(3)

[Repealed 2023-12-23.]




(4)

If forms prescribed under the former Act are delivered to an
administrator after Part 6 of this Act comes into force, the
administrator may




(a)

accept the forms as compliance with the requirements of Part 6 of this
Act, or




(b)

require the parties to give notice in accordance with section 136
[notice or waiver]
of this Act.






Transition — changing, suspending or terminating orders




254


For greater certainty, the coming into force of this Act is not in
itself a change in circumstances for the purposes of any section of
this Act in relation to the changing, suspending or terminating of
orders.






Transition — restraining orders




255


An order made under section 37, 38, 124 or 126 of the former Act
continues in force in accordance with the terms of the order.






Transition — regulations




256

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations the Lieutenant
Governor in Council considers necessary or advisable for the orderly
transition from the former Act to this Act.




(2)

The authority to make or amend a regulation made under subsection (1),
but not the authority to repeal a regulation made under subsection
(1), ends 3 years after the date on which subsection (1) comes into
force.




Contents
|


Part 1
|


Part 2
|


Part 3
|


Part 4
|


Part 5
|


Part 6
|


Part 7
|


Part 8
|


Part 9
|


Part 10
|


Part 11
|


Part 12
|

Part 13 |

Part 14




