





View Complete Statute



Income Tax Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 215



Part 14 — Emergency Benefit for Workers





Definitions




214


In this Part:



"commissioner"

means the Commissioner of Income Tax;



"determination"

includes a redetermination;



"emergency benefit"

means the emergency benefit for workers under this Part for the 2019
taxation year.






Eligibility for emergency benefit




215

(1)


An individual is eligible for an emergency benefit if the individual
meets all the following requirements:




(a)

any of the following applies:




(i)

the individual




(A)

is entitled to receive an income support payment under the

Canada Emergency Response Benefit Act

, and




(B)

has not repaid or is not required to repay all of the income support
payments received under the

Canada Emergency Response Benefit Act

;




(ii)

the individual would have been entitled to receive an income support
payment under the

Canada Emergency Response Benefit Act

if




(A)

that Act read in accordance with subsection (6) of this section, and




(B)

the individual had made an application in accordance with that Act on
the date the individual's application for the emergency benefit was
filed under section 216 of this Act;




(iii)

the individual




(A)

is entitled to receive an employment insurance emergency response
benefit under Part VIII.4 of the

Employment Insurance Act

(Canada), and




(B)

has not repaid or is not required to repay all of the employment
insurance emergency response benefits received under Part VIII.4 of
the

Employment Insurance Act

(Canada);




(b)

the individual was a resident of British Columbia at the end of March
15, 2020;




(c)

the individual is not receiving assistance under a prescribed
assistance program during a prescribed period, except assistance
received for a prescribed reason;




(d)

the individual has applied for the emergency benefit in accordance
with section 216 of this Act.




(1.1)

An individual is eligible for an emergency benefit if the individual
meets all the following requirements:




(a)

the individual meets the requirements in subsection (1) (b)
to (d);




(b)

the individual receives an amount paid under section 218 even though,
but for this subsection, the individual is not eligible for an
emergency benefit;




(c)

the individual




(i)

receives an income support payment under the

Canada Emergency Response Benefit Act

, whether or not the individual has repaid or is required to repay all
of the income support payments received under that Act,




(ii)

would have been entitled to receive an income support payment under
the

Canada Emergency Response Benefit Act

if




(A)

that Act read in accordance with subsection (6) of this section and
any further modifications under paragraph (d) of this subsection, and




(B)

the individual had made an application in accordance with that Act, or




(iii)

receives an employment insurance emergency response benefit under Part
VIII.4 of the

Employment Insurance Act

(Canada), whether or not the individual has repaid or is required to
repay all of the employment insurance emergency response benefit
received under that Act;




(d)

other prescribed requirements, including requirements that provide for
modifications to how the

Canada Emergency Response Benefit Act

or the

Employment Insurance Act

(Canada) must be read.




(2)

Despite subsections (1) and (1.1), an individual is not eligible for
an emergency benefit if the individual is confined to a prison or
similar institution for a period of at least 90 days that includes
March 15, 2020.




(3)

For the purposes of this Part, an individual must file before January
1, 2021 a return of income under section 29 for the 2019 taxation
year.




(4)

If an individual has been paid an amount under this Part and the
individual has not filed a return of income in accordance with
subsection (3), the commissioner may determine that the individual is
not eligible for the emergency benefit.




(5)

Despite subsections (1) and (1.1), if a notice of determination is
sent to an individual under section 217 (3) after a determination
under subsection (4) of this section, the individual is deemed never
to have been eligible for the emergency benefit.




(6)

For the purposes of subsection (1) (a) (ii),




(a)

the reference to "March 15, 2020" in section 5 (1) of the

Canada Emergency Response Benefit Act

must be read as a reference to "March 1, 2020",




(b)

the reference to "at least 14 consecutive days within the four-week
period in respect of which they apply for the payment" in section 6
(1) (a) of the

Canada Emergency Response Benefit Act

must be read as a reference to "at least 14 consecutive days that
begin on or after March 1, 2020 and before March 15, 2020", and




(c)

the

Canada Emergency Response Benefit Act

must be read without reference to section 6 (1) (b) (ii) of that Act.






Application for tax credit




216

(1)


An individual who wishes to claim an emergency benefit must file with
the commissioner an application for the emergency benefit




(2)

The application must be filed in the form and manner, and contain the
information, required by the commissioner.




(3)

In addition to the application, the individual must file with the
application, or within a later period approved by the commissioner,
any other information or records required by the commissioner.




(4)

An application under this section must be filed on or before December
2, 2020.






Determination of tax credit




217

(1)


The commissioner must examine an application and other information or
records filed under section 216 and determine whether the individual
is eligible for an emergency benefit.




(2)

If the commissioner determines that an individual is eligible for an
emergency benefit, the commissioner may send to the individual a
notice of determination.




(3)

If the commissioner determines that an individual is not eligible for
an emergency benefit, the commissioner must send to the individual a
notice of determination.




(4)

A notice may be in the form and sent in the manner determined by the
commissioner.




(5)

In determining whether an individual is eligible for an emergency
benefit, the commissioner is not bound by an application or other
information or records filed by or on behalf of the individual.






Payment of emergency benefit




218

(1)


An overpayment of $1 000 on account of an individual's liability
under this Act for the 2019 taxation year is deemed to have arisen if
the individual has claimed and is eligible for an emergency benefit.




(2)

If an overpayment is deemed to have arisen under subsection (1), the
Provincial minister must pay, out of the consolidated revenue fund,
the amount of the overpayment after the commissioner determines the
individual is eligible for the emergency benefit.




(3)

The amount payable under subsection (2) must be paid by electronic
funds transfer.




(4)

Despite the

Financial Administration Act

and the Interest on Overdue Accounts Payable Regulation, B.C. Reg.
215/83, no interest is payable by the government with respect to the
amount payable under subsection (2).






Notice to commissioner if individual no longer eligible for emergency
benefit




219

(1)


If an individual receives an amount paid under section 218 and the
individual no longer meets all of the eligibility requirements in
section 215 (1) or (1.1), the individual must file a notice with the
commissioner on or before the later of




(a)

June 30, 2021, and




(b)

the date that is 30 days after the earliest of the following, as
applicable:




(i)

the date the individual repaid all of the income support payments the
individual received under the

Canada Emergency Response Benefit Act

;




(ii)

the date the individual received notice that the Minister of
Employment and Social Development for Canada has determined that the
individual is not entitled to the income support payments the
individual received under the

Canada Emergency Response Benefit Act

;




(iii)

the date the individual no longer meets the eligibility requirement in
section 215 (1) (a) (ii) of this Act;




(iv)

the date the individual received assistance referred to in section 215
(1) (c) of this Act;




(v)

the date the individual repaid all of the employment insurance
emergency response benefit under Part VIII.4 of the

Employment Insurance Act

(Canada);




(vi)

the date the individual received notice that the Minister of
Employment and Social Development for Canada has determined that the
individual is not entitled to the employment insurance emergency
response benefit payments the individual received under Part VIII.4 of
the

Employment Insurance Act

(Canada).




(2)

The notice must be filed in the form and manner, and contain the
information, required by the commissioner.




(3)

In addition to the notice, the individual must file with the notice
any other information or records required by the commissioner.






Determination period




220


The commissioner may determine eligibility for an emergency benefit,
or determine and impose any penalty payable under this Part,




(a)

subject to paragraph (b), on or before December 2, 2023, or




(b)

at any time,




(i)

if any individual has made any misrepresentation or committed any
fraud in filing an individual's application or in filing information
or records under this Part,




(ii)

to give effect to a waiver or cancellation of a penalty under section
224
[waiver or cancellation of penalty]
, or




(iii)

to give effect to a decision of the Provincial minister under section
228
[appeal to Provincial minister]
or a decision of a court under section 229
[appeal to court]
.






Overpayment cannot be attached or assigned




221


An overpayment payable under section 218




(a)

cannot be charged or given as security,




(b)

cannot be assigned except under a prescribed Act,




(c)

cannot be garnished or attached,




(d)

is exempt from execution or seizure, and




(e)

cannot be retained by way of set-off under the

Financial Administration Act

.






Imposition of administrative penalty




222

(1)


The commissioner may determine and impose a penalty on an individual
who is liable to a penalty under section 223.




(2)

If the commissioner imposes a penalty on an individual, the
commissioner must send to the individual a notice of determination
that specifies the amount of the penalty imposed.






Administrative penalties




223

(1)


An individual who knowingly or under circumstances amounting to gross
negligence in the carrying out of any duty or obligation imposed under
this Part makes, or participates in, assents to or acquiesces in the
making of, a statement or omission in an application, return, report,
notice or other record filed with the commissioner that results in any
individual receiving a payment under this Part for which the
individual is not eligible, or that would have resulted in any
individual receiving a payment under this Part for which the
individual is not eligible if eligibility had been determined on the
basis of the information provided in the application, return, report,
notice or other record, is liable to a penalty of $3 000.




(2)

An individual who fails to file with the commissioner a notice in
accordance with section 219 is liable, in respect of each failure, to
a penalty of $10 for each day after which the notice was required to
be filed under that section, to a maximum of $250.






Waiver or cancellation of penalty




224


The commissioner may at any time waive or cancel all or part of any
penalty otherwise payable by an individual under this Part.






Interest payable to government under this Part




225

(1)


If an amount is deemed under section 231
[individual to repay amount]
to be an amount payable by an individual, the individual is liable to
pay interest on the amount from the later of




(a)

the date the amount to be repaid was paid under this Part to the
individual, and




(b)

October 1, 2020

until the date of payment.



(2)

An individual must pay to the government interest on a penalty imposed
under this Part as follows:




(a)

in the case of a penalty under section 223 (1)
[gross negligence]
, from the later of




(i)

the date on which the application, return, report, notice or other
record was filed, and




(ii)

October 1, 2020

until the date of payment;



(b)

in the case of a penalty under section 223 (2)
[failure to file notice]
, from the later of




(i)

the date of the notice of determination that specifies the amount of
the penalty imposed, and




(ii)

October 1, 2020

until the date of payment.



(3)

Interest payable to the government under this Part must be calculated
at the prescribed rate and in the prescribed manner.






No interest if full payment within 30 days




226


Despite any other provision of this Part, if




(a)

a notice of determination or statement of account sent to an
individual by the commissioner specifies an amount that is owing to
the government under this Part by the individual, and




(b)

the individual, within 30 days after the date on the notice of
determination or statement of account, pays the amount owing in full,


interest is not payable on the amount owing from the date on the
notice of determination or statement of account until the date of
payment.






Waiver or cancellation of interest




227


The commissioner may at any time waive or cancel all or part of any
interest otherwise payable by an individual under this Part.






Appeal to Provincial minister




228

(1)


An individual may appeal to the Provincial minister an imposition of a
penalty under section 222.




(2)

An appeal under subsection (1)




(a)

must be made within 90 days after the date on the notice of
determination in respect of the matter being appealed, and




(b)

must be made by serving a notice of appeal on the Provincial minister
by mailing the notice to that minister.




(3)

The appellant must set out in the notice of appeal a statement of all
material facts and the reasons in support of the appeal.




(4)

On receipt of all relevant information from the commissioner and the
notice of appeal, the Provincial minister must




(a)

confirm, reverse or vary the commissioner's decision or determination,
and




(b)

notify the appellant in writing of the minister's decision.




(5)

The Provincial minister may authorize any officer of the ministry to
perform and exercise duties imposed and powers conferred on the
Provincial minister by this section as may in the Provincial
minister's opinion be conveniently performed or exercised by that
officer.




(6)

The performance or exercise by the officer authorized under subsection
(5) of the duties or powers referred to in that subsection is of the
same effect as if the duties or powers were performed or exercised by
the Provincial minister.






Appeal to court




229

(1)


A decision of the Provincial minister under section 228 (4) in respect
of an appeal to the Provincial minister under section 228 (1) may be
appealed to the Supreme Court by way of a petition proceeding.




(2)

The Supreme Court Civil Rules relating to petition proceedings, other
than Rule 18-3, apply to appeals under this section.




(3)

A petition must be filed in the court registry within 90 days after
the date of the Provincial minister's decision.




(4)

In a petition filed under this section, the government must be
designated "Her Majesty the Queen in right of the Province of British
Columbia".




(5)

Within 14 days after the filing of a petition under this section, the
petition must be served on the government in accordance with section 8
of the

Crown Proceeding Act

.




(6)

An appeal under this section is a new hearing that is not limited to
the evidence and issues that were before the Provincial minister.




(7)

The court may




(a)

dismiss the appeal,




(b)

allow the appeal,




(c)

vary the decision from which the appeal is made, or




(d)

refer the decision back to the commissioner for reconsideration.




(8)

[Repealed 2021-18-33.]






Irregularities




230


A determination made under this Part must not be varied or disallowed
by a court because of an irregularity, informality, omission or error
on the part of a person in the observation of any directory provision
up to the date of the notice of determination.






Individual to repay amount




231


If it appears from an inspection, audit, examination or investigation
or from other information available to the commissioner that an amount
has been paid under this Part to an individual who is not entitled to
receive that amount, the amount paid is deemed to be an amount that
became payable by the individual to the government on the day on which
the amount was paid to the individual.






Liability for amounts owing to government




232


An individual is liable to pay to the government the following:




(a)

the amount that was paid to the individual under this Part if the
individual is not entitled to receive that amount;




(b)

the amount of any penalties imposed on the individual under section
222
[imposition of administrative penalty]
;




(c)

the amount of any interest payable by the individual to the government
under this Part.






Collection of amounts owing to government




233


Part 5
[Recovery of Amounts Owing]
of the

Employer Health Tax Act

applies for the purpose of collecting an amount that is owing to the
government under this Part.






Powers of audit




234


Without limiting any provision of this Act or the federal Act, for the
purpose of determining eligibility for the tax credit under this Part,
the commissioner has powers equivalent to the federal minister under
sections 231 to 231.5 and 231.7 of the federal Act, and for that
purpose those sections apply.






Delegation of powers




235

(1)


The commissioner may authorize any other officer of the ministry to
perform and exercise duties imposed and powers conferred on the
commissioner by this Part as may in the commissioner's opinion be
conveniently performed or exercised by that officer.




(2)

The performance or exercise by the officer authorized under subsection
(1) of the duties or powers referred to in that subsection is of the
same effect as if the duties or powers were performed or exercised by
the commissioner.






Application of other provisions




236

(1)


A tax credit under this Part is not to be considered in applying any
of the following provisions:




(a)

section 31
[instalment payments: farmers and fishers]
;




(b)

section 32
[instalment payments: other individuals]
;




(c)

section 34
[returns, payments and interest]
;




(d)

section 35
[refund for tax credits]
;




(e)

section 36
[amount on which instalment calculated]
;




(f)

section 37

[failure to file return or corporate return and failure to provide
information]

;




(g)

section 39
[penalty for late or deficient instalments]
;




(h)

section 39.1
[misrepresentation of tax matter by third party]
;




(i)

section 40
[refunds]
.




(2)

The following provisions do not apply for the purposes of this Part,
except to the extent provided in this Part:




(a)

section 1 (8.1)
[interpretation]
;




(b)

section 29
[returns of income and assessments of tax]
;




(c)

section 30
[reassessment and amended return]
;




(d)

section 38

[failure to report income, false statement or omission and burden of
proof on appeal]

;




(e)

section 41
[objections to assessments and extension of time]
;




(f)

section 42
[appeal by taxpayer]
;




(g)

section 43
[reply]
;




(h)

section 44
[procedure]
;




(i)

section 45
[irregularities, extension of time and private hearings]
;




(j)

section 46
[court practice]
;




(k)

section 47

[administration, interest, garnishment and proceedings to collect]

;




(l)

section 49
[debts to Her Majesty]
;




(m)

section 50
[certificates]
;




(n)

section 51
[warrant]
;




(o)

section 52
[acquisition of debtor's property]
;




(p)

section 53
[payment of money seized from tax debtor]
;




(q)

section 54
[seizure of goods]
;




(r)

section 55
[taxpayer leaving Canada or defaulting]
;




(s)

section 59

[inspections, privilege, information returns and corporate
execution]

;




(t)

section 61
[offence and penalty]
;




(u)

section 62
[further offences]
;




(v)

section 70
[payments on account]
.






Administration




237

(1)


Despite any collection agreement, the Provincial minister must
administer and enforce this Part.




(2)

Despite section 69 (3)
[collection agreement]
, the federal minister is not authorized to use, perform or exercise
any of the powers, duties or discretions of the Provincial minister
under this Part.






Power to make regulations




238

(1)


Without limiting section 48 (1) and (2)
[power to make regulations]
, the Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations as follows:




(a)

prescribing assistance programs, periods and reasons for the purposes
of section 215 (1) (c);




(a.1)

prescribing requirements for the purposes of section
215 (1.1) (d);




(b)

prescribing Acts for the purposes of section 221 (b);




(c)

prescribing interest rates and the manner of calculating interest for
the purposes of this Part;




(d)

defining a word or expression used but not defined in this Part.




(2)

In making regulations under subsection (1) (a), the Lieutenant
Governor in Council may prescribe different periods for different
prescribed assistance programs.




(2.1)

In making regulations under subsection (1) (a.1), the Lieutenant
Governor in Council may make different regulations for different
classes of individuals.




(3)

A regulation made under this section may be made retroactive to
May 1, 2020 or a later date, and if made retroactive is deemed to
have come into force on the specified date.






Repeal by regulation




239


After December 31, 2023, the Lieutenant Governor in Council may repeal
this Part by regulation.




Contents
|


Part 1
|


Part 2
|


Part 3
|


Part 4
|


Part 5
|


Part 6
|


Part 7
|


Part 8
|


Part 9
|


Part 10
|


Part 11
|


Part 12
|


Part 13
|

Part 14 |

Part 15
|


Part 16




