





View Complete Regulation






B.C. Reg. 296/97

Workers' Compensation Board


Deposited September 8, 1997

effective April 15, 1998






This consolidation is current to November 28, 2023.

See the

Cumulative B.C. Regulations Bulletin 2023


for amendments effective after November 28, 2023.





Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Workers Compensation Act


Occupational Health and Safety Regulation

[Last amended March 1, 2023 by B.C. Reg. 223/2022]


Part 24 — Diving, Fishing and Other Marine Operations





Definitions




24.1


In this Part:



"altitude diving"

means any dive performed over 300 m (1 000 ft) above
sea level;



"atmospheric diving system (ADS)"

means a diving system capable of withstanding external pressures
greater than atmospheric pressure, and in which the internal pressure
remains at one atmosphere, and includes a one person submarine and a
one atmosphere compartment of a diving submersible;



"atmospheric pressure"

means pressure at the surface of the water, normally considered to be
101.3 kPa (14.7 psi);



"bailout bottle"

means an independent breathing gas supply carried by the diver, of
sufficient quantity to return the diver to the surface, bell or
emergency supply in the event of a malfunction of the primary
breathing gas supply;



"bottom time"

means the total elapsed time, rounded to the next whole minute, from
the time the diver leaves the surface to the time the diver begins
final ascent;



"chamber operator"

means a person who has demonstrated capability in operating the
controls of a recompression chamber and is knowledgeable and competent
in diving tables and the application of treatment tables;



"construction diving"

means any diving operation that involves burning, welding, erection,
alteration, dismantling, demolition, structural maintenance and
inspection, excavating, salvage, boring, blasting, concreting and the
installation of any machinery or equipment;



"contaminated environment"

means a workplace that contains or may contain chemical, biological or
radiological material in sufficient concentration that, should any
quantity of it be ingested, absorbed, adsorbed or inhaled, will likely
endanger the health or safety of the worker;



"contamination reduction zone"

means the area used to dress and undress divers, transfer workers from
the exclusion zone, and decontaminate personnel and equipment;


"crewmember"
for the purposes of sections 24.69 to 24.143, means any person who is
working on a fishing vessel;



"decompression illness"

means a dysfunction caused by exposure to a reduction in pressure
resulting in the production of bubbles in the body;



"deep diving"

means any diving operation to depths greater than 50 m
(165 ft);



"dive profile"

means a logged schedule of the diver's activities during any diving
operation, which includes the time the surface was left, depth,
decompression, repetitive dives and other information concerning the
diving operations;


"dive site"
means any location where a diving operation takes place including a
boat, scow, float, raft or platform which is seaworthy, secure, and of
sufficient size to safely accommodate all workers and equipment
without overcrowding;



"diver's harness"

means a harness, fitted with a positive buckling device and an
attachment point for a lifeline, that will prevent any strain on the
diver's mask, helmet and umbilical, that is worn by the diver and is
strong enough to lift the diver from the water in an emergency;



"diver's tender"

means a worker who is competent and knowledgeable in the diving
apparatus being used, the diving operation in progress, emergency
diving procedures and communications between diver and tender;



"diving supervisor"

means a person having complete and direct responsibility for the
diving operation who is knowledgeable and competent with the diving
equipment, the diving operations in progress, emergency diving
procedures, diving physics and physiology and medical aspects of
diving;



"emergency breathing supply"

means the bailout bottle carried by the diver and may include the high
pressure breathing medium bottle carried on the diving stage;



"exclusion zone"

means the workplace at the surface from which divers are tended during
a contaminated diving operation;


"fish"
means any species of animal living in water, including its eggs or
roe;



"fishing vessel"

means any commercial vessel used in catching fish or collecting or
transporting fish for landing;


"lifejacket"
means a device that,




(a)

when worn correctly, provides a specified buoyancy that will turn the
wearer face-up on entering the water, and will keep the wearer in this
position, and




(b)

is of a type of lifejacket that has the approval, and bears a mark or
label indicating that approval, set out in section 7 (1) and (2) of
the Small Vessel Regulations (Canada);


"lifeline"
means a rope of 16 mm (5/8 in) in diameter, of polypropylene or other
synthetic fibre of at least equal strength, which is secured to the
diver and to a permanent fixture at the surface;



"live boating"

means the support of a surface supplied diver from a vessel under way;



"lock-out submersible (or LOS)"

means a self-propelled submersible fitted with a submersible
compression chamber from which a diving operation can be carried out
and that has a separate one atmosphere chamber from which the
submersible is operated;


"master"
for the purposes of sections 24.69 to 24.143, means the person in
overall command of a fishing vessel;



"medical recompression"

means treatment of a diver in a compressed air environment, in a
recompression chamber, in accordance with established practice or
medical direction, to alleviate symptoms resulting from a previous
decompression;


"mixed gas"
means a mixture of breathable gases other than atmospheric air;



"no decompression limit"

means that in accordance with the diving table in use for the depth
and duration of the dive, no decompression stop is required;


"owner"
for the purposes of sections 24.69 to 24.143, means the person who
holds legal title to a fishing vessel and also includes a charterer of
a fishing vessel;



"personal flotation device (PFD)"

means a device that,




(a)

when worn correctly, provides a specified buoyancy to support a
conscious person in an upright or backward leaning position, but is
not designed to turn a person from a face-down to a face-up position
in the water, and




(b)

is of a type of personal flotation device that has the approval, and
bears a mark or label indicating that approval, set out in section 7
of the Small Vessel Regulations (Canada);



"recompression chamber"

means a system consisting of one or more pressure vessels for human
occupancy, with associated utilities, controls and instrumentation,
whose purpose is to support diving operations, hyperbaric treatment,
dive simulation and/or scientific study and equipment testing;



"reserve breathing supply"

means a secondary supply, other than the bailout bottle, of a
breathing medium of the appropriate mixture and of sufficient quantity
to enable the diver to return safely to the surface with all
appropriate decompression stops;


"scuba"
means self-contained underwater breathing apparatus;


"stage"
means a suspended work platform such as a cage, basket or platform in
which 2 divers may be lowered to or raised from an underwater
worksite;



"submersible compression chamber (or SCC)"

means a chamber that is intended to be submerged and that is designed
to transport a person at atmospheric pressure or divers at pressures
greater than atmospheric pressure from the surface to an underwater
work site and back and includes the compression chamber of a diving
submersible;



"support zone"

means the workplace used in support of the diving operations and where
the cleaning and/or disposal of diving equipment may take place;



"surface supply diving"

means supplying air or a mixture of gases to a diver through a hose
from the surface;



"umbilical bundle"

means a combination of hoses and cable, including a lifeline or
strength member attached in a manner to prevent stress on the diver's
hose, which is capable of supplying a breathing mixture or other
services as required such as power, heat, cooling, communications and
depth (kluge) indicating hose;



"working alone"

means working in circumstances where assistance would not be readily
available to a crewmember if the crewmember fell overboard.

[am. B.C. Reg. 14/2019, App. E, ss. 2 and 3.]



Wharves, Docks and Mooring Floats





Ladders




24.2


Fixed ladders must be provided at every dock for access to and egress
from the water, and must




(a)

be spaced at intervals not exceeding 30 m (100 ft),




(b)

extend from the top of the dock to at least 1 m (3.3 ft)
below the lowest water level,




(c)

be maintained free of barnacles and marine growth, and




(d)

have their location identified by high visibility paint on the curb or
bullrail.






Lifesaving equipment




24.3

(1)


Appropriate lifesaving equipment must




(a)

be provided and maintained for the rescue of any worker in danger of
drowning, and




(b)

be positioned at intervals not exceeding 50 m (165 ft) in
conspicuous locations as near as practicable to the danger area.




(2)

Throwing lines fitted to lifebuoys or similar equipment must be of
suitable size and length and made of buoyant material.




(3)

For the purposes of this section, lifesaving equipment includes
lifebuoys, throwing bags, grapples, boat hooks or other equipment
appropriate to the circumstances.






Curbs, bullrails, guardrails and barriers




24.4

(1)


A curb or bullrail must be installed along the open sides of each
float, dock, wharf, pier and similar other area where mobile equipment
might be used.




(2)

Each curb and bullrail must be of substantial construction and be at
least 25 cm (10 in) high.




(3)

Where practicable, guardrails meeting the requirements of Part 4
(General Conditions) must be installed at




(a)

dangerous breaks in the continuity of a wharf, dock or pier, and




(b)

dangerous corners, edges and other parts of a wharf, dock or pier.




(4)

Moveable warning barriers may be used where the use of standard
guardrails is impracticable.




(5)

Effective warning barriers must be installed across the entrances of
barge and ship loading ramps when the ramps are not in use.

[am. B.C. Reg. 185/99, s. 70.]





Markings




24.5

(1)


Where circumstances require, curbs, bullrails, guardrails and barriers
must be painted solid yellow, yellow and black stripes or checkers, or
yellow against a suitable contrasting background.




(2)

Retroreflective paint or patches must be applied to curbs, bullrails,
guardrails and barriers where mobile equipment is operated at night.

[am. B.C. Reg. 185/99, s. 70.]





Rescue boat




24.6


A suitable boat must be provided and kept ready for immediate use when
workers are employed in situations where a boat is necessary for
rescue or evacuation.

[am. B.C. Reg. 185/99, s. 70.]



Diving Operations

General Requirements





Application




24.7


Sections 24.7 to 24.68 apply to all persons involved in any
occupational diving operation.

[am. B.C. Reg. 185/99, s. 70.]





Repealed




24.8


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. G, s. 3.]






Notice of project




24.9

(1)


The employer must submit a notice of project for diving activity, or
notify the Board by telephone, at least 24 hours before
commencing a diving operation which involves




(a)

construction diving,




(b)

engineering inspection diving,




(c)

diving in a contaminated environment,




(d)

diving under ice, under or between nets, or into other areas of
potential entrapment,




(e)

exceeding the no-decompression limit, or




(f)

the use of mixed gas other than nitrox as a breathing medium.




(2)

The notice of project must indicate the date, the location, the diving
equipment to be used and the scope of the diving operation.




(3)

Before diving commences, a copy of the notice of project must be
posted at the worksite, or if notification is provided by telephone, a
written summary of that notification that contains the information
required by subsection (2) must be posted at the worksite.




(4)

If in an emergency it is not practicable to notify the Board prior to
the start of a diving operation, the Board must be notified as soon as
possible, but no later than 24 hours after the diving operation
has begun.

[am. B.C. Reg. 253/2001, s. 18.]





Medical certification




24.10

(1)


The employer must ensure that each diver has current medical
certification, from a physician knowledgeable and competent in diving
medicine, before commencing diving operations.




(2)

A diver's medical certification must be




(a)

established prior to entry into any commercial diving activity,




(b)

renewed every 2 years up to age 39 and annually from age 40 onwards,




(c)

renewed more frequently than required by paragraph (b) if clinically
indicated, and




(d)

re-evaluated by a physician knowledgeable and competent in diving
medicine if the diver is subjected to an event or has a physical
condition which may affect the diver's medical status.




(3)

A copy of each diver's medical certification must be kept at the dive
site.






Diver's fitness




24.11

(1)


A diver must not dive if, in the opinion of the diving supervisor, the
diver is incapable of functioning safely underwater.




(2)

A diver must be medically re-examined, as required by the diving
supervisor, to ensure that the diver is fit to dive.




(3)

Divers, standby divers and divers' tenders must not participate in any
diving operation if they are physically or emotionally fatigued or if
they have consumed drugs or alcohol which would impair their ability
to work safely.






Training




24.12

(1)


A diver must not dive unless the diver has been thoroughly trained in
the theory and use of the diving apparatus that the diver will be
using.




(2)

The training required by subsection (1) must be provided by a person
or agency acceptable to the Board.




(3)

All divers, diving supervisors and divers' tenders must be trained in
CPR, oxygen (O
2
) therapy, and diving accident management.






Evidence of competency




24.13

(1)


The employer and diving supervisor must ensure that all divers




(a)

meet the minimum requirements of

CSA Standard Z275.4-97 Competency Standard for Diving Operations

, and




(b)

are competent to use the diving equipment that will be used in the
diving operation.




(2)

A certified copy of competency documents for each diver must be
available for inspection on site by an officer.

[am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. A, s. 4.]





Diving logs




24.14

(1)


Each diver must have, and keep for 2 years after the last entry, a
personal log containing a record of all




(a)

dives carried out, and




(b)

medical recompressions and other exposures to a compressed air/mixed
gas environment.




(2)

The records in a diver's personal log must be in chronological order
and each dive must be verified and initialled by the diving
supervisor.




(3)

The records for each dive must include




(a)

the type of diving apparatus used and the gas medium breathed,




(b)

the times the diver left the surface, reached and left the bottom, and
returned to the surface,




(c)

the maximum depth attained,




(d)

the surface interval, if a repetitive dive,




(e)

the decompression tables that were used,




(f)

the date the dive was undertaken, and




(g)

remarks (such as name of employer, unusual incidents).




(4)

The diving supervisor must keep a separate log of the diving operation
containing the information required by subsection (3).




(5)

The diving supervisor's log must be filed with the employer upon
completion of the operation.




(6)

All current logs must be available at the dive site for inspection by
an officer.






Dive site equipment




24.15


When diving is in progress, the dive site must be provided with




(a)

a current list of facilities with hyperbaric chambers capable of
providing emergency treatment,




(b)

the locations and phone numbers of the nearest hospital and available
emergency assistance,




(c)

if the no-decompression limit is to be exceeded, a 16 mm (5/8 in)
synthetic line, marked at appropriate intervals for decompression
stops, weighted and of sufficient length to reach the maximum depth
for the dive,




(d)

a first aid kit and an oxygen (O
2
) therapy unit with sufficient capacity to reach emergency medical
services,




(e)

one complete set of acceptable dive tables and one copy of this
Regulation,




(f)

an appropriate means for entering and leaving the water, including a
means for rescuing an incapacitated diver,




(g)

equipment to provide voice communication with emergency services
personnel, and




(h)

other equipment as may be required by the Board.

[am. B.C. Reg. 348/2003, s. 8.]





Lifelines




24.16


Divers tended on a lifeline must wear a suitable diver's harness and
lifelines must be




(a)

securely fastened to the diver's harness, but not attached to the
diver's weight belt,




(b)

free of knots and splices,




(c)

secured to a permanent fixture at the surface, and




(d)

tended at all times by a diver's tender.






Safe diving procedures




24.17

(1)


Every employer engaged in diving operations must prepare and publish a
set of safe diving procedures which include




(a)

safe procedures and health requirements for each type of diving in
which workers may be involved,




(b)

all the procedures to meet the applicable requirements of this
Regulation, and




(c)

emergency, evacuation, and rescue procedures.




(2)

The safe diving procedures must be kept at the dive site, readily
available to all workers, and available for inspection by an officer.






Diving supervisor's worksite duties




24.18

(1)


Each diving operation must be directed by a diving supervisor whose
duties include




(a)

evaluating the hazards,




(b)

planning the dive,




(c)

briefing the crew,




(d)

ensuring that all needed equipment is available and in good working
condition, and




(e)

controlling the entire diving operation.




(f)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. G, s. 4 (c).]




(2)

The diving supervisor must prepare a detailed plan of the diving
operations which must be given to the worksite employer before diving
commences.




(3)

The diving supervisor must




(a)

remain in the dive area during diving operations,




(b)

delegate the supervisory responsibilities to another diving
supervisor, if required to enter the water, and




(c)

suspend diving operations if conditions become unsafe.

[am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. G, s. 4.]





Crew briefing




24.19


Immediately before each dive, the diving supervisor must brief all
persons involved in the diving operations about




(a)

the hazards which may be encountered during the dive,




(b)

the intended duration of the dive and the maximum depth to be reached,




(c)

decompression procedures to be followed,




(d)

the location of other divers,




(e)

the work to be done,




(f)

specific recall signals, and




(g)

emergency procedures to be followed.






Diver's responsibilities




24.20

(1)


Each diver must satisfy the diving supervisor that the diver fully
understands the signals and procedures in use.




(2)

Except in the case of accidental or unavoidable circumstances, a diver
must not remain or be permitted to remain at any depth longer than the
maximum time planned for that dive.




(3)

In any diving operation the diver must inform the tender or diving
partner and must proceed to the surface under any of the following
conditions:




(a)

if any malfunction in diving gear occurs;




(b)

on receipt of any signal which cannot be understood;




(c)

at the onset of any symptoms of physical or psychological distress;




(d)

on receipt of a recall signal;




(e)

when the main air supply is near depletion;




(f)

if the emergency apparatus/air supply is being used;




(g)

in the event of excessive leakage to a dry type of diving suit which
may affect the diver's buoyancy.

[am. B.C. Reg. 116/2022, App. B, s. 14.]





Diving tables




24.21

(1)


Diving operations, repetitive dives, and treatment of divers, must be
carried out in strict accordance with tables and procedures published
or approved by the Defence and Civil Institute of Environmental
Medicine (Canada).




(2)

Sport diving tables must not be used.




(3)

Diving computers must not be used in place of primary diving tables.


[am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. A, s. 5; 14/2019, App. F, s. 3.]






Decompression procedures




24.22

(1)


During diving operations which require decompression, a reserve
breathing supply with sufficient reserve to bring divers to the
surface with appropriate decompression stops must be available and
ready for immediate use.




(2)

Whenever planned dives will exceed the no-decompression limit




(a)

the divers must be equipped with a bailout bottle containing a minimum
1.4 m
3
(50 ft
3
) of breathing medium,




(b)

an approved double lock hyperbaric chamber in operable condition with
overriding outside controls and appropriate air facilities must be
located so that travel time by available transport will not exceed 30
minutes,




(c)

if the planned decompression time will exceed 15 minutes the
hyperbaric chamber must be on the dive site, and




(d)

a chamber operator must be available on the surface at the dive site
or at the hyperbaric chamber.




(3)

A dive must not exceed the no-decompression limit if the hyperbaric
chamber is occupied.






Diver care and transportation




24.23

(1)


The diving supervisor must ensure that on completion of decompression,
the diver remains under observation in the general area of the
hyperbaric chamber for a period of time to ensure the well-being of
the diver.




(2)

If a diver shows signs of pressure related illness or requires
therapeutic recompression, the diving supervisor must ensure that
treatment is initiated immediately and a physician knowledgeable in
hyperbaric medicine is notified.




(3)

If it is necessary to transport a diver suffering a diving ailment by
air, provision must be made to furnish the patient with oxygen and the
flight altitude must be prescribed by the attending physician or the
diving supervisor.






Medical alert tag




24.24


A diver must wear a medical alert tag or bracelet stating the diver's
status and indicating the possibility of decompression sickness or
other diving illness, for at least 24 hours after completion of
diving.






Hyperbaric chambers




24.25


Hyperbaric chambers must conform to standards acceptable to the Board
and must be provided with




(a)

a means of extinguishing a fire,




(b)

an oxygen monitoring device,




(c)

an oxygen delivery system with a built-in breathing system (BIBS), and




(d)

an adequate supply of air, including an emergency reserve supply to
complete any decompression and treatment procedures.






Breathing mediums




24.26

(1)


If air is used as the respirable medium in diving operations it must
meet the requirements of

CSA Standard CAN/CSA-Z275.2-92, Occupational Safety Code for Diving
Operations

, with the exception of the water vapour standard.




(2)

The air supplied by compressors for breathing air in diving operations
must be tested at least annually to ensure that it meets the
requirements of subsection (1).




(3)

If mixed gases in other than the normal proportions of respirable air
are used for breathing by divers, the diving supervisor must ensure
that




(a)

the diving procedures and schedules of work, and decompression are in
accordance with the recommendations of a competent authority, and




(b)

prior written authorization has been received from the Board to use
mixed gases other than nitrox and that the authorization is kept on
the dive site, available for inspection by an officer.




(4)

The following requirements apply to operations using nitrox mixes:




(a)

procedures and mixes must be acceptable to the Board;




(b)

all workers involved with nitrox diving must be trained in the
procedures to a standard acceptable to the Board;




(c)

proof of training and a copy of the operating procedures must be
readily available at each dive site.






Breathing apparatus




24.27

(1)


All breathing apparatus and associated delivery systems must be
correctly installed and tested for function before each use.




(2)

The breathing apparatus, accessories and applicable service records
must be available for inspection by an officer, and service records
must be available to workers on the dive site.

[en. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. E, s. 25.]





Compressor intake




24.28


The compressor intake must  be located so that the breathing
medium will not be contaminated by gasoline vapours, engine exhausts,
or other objectionable impurities.

[am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 56.]





Gauges and meters




24.29

(1)


Gauges and meter equipment must be tested every 6 months or
whenever a malfunction is detected, and errors found must be corrected
without delay.




(2)

If the equipment is removed from service, the specific problem with
the equipment must be identified.






Warning devices




24.30


When any diving activity is taking place, warning devices must be
displayed as follows:




(a)

marker buoys must be used to display warning devices (flags, lights,
lamps, or flares) to define the limits of the diving area, and boats
other than those connected with the diving activity must be kept clear
of the diving area;




(b)

in navigable waters the recognized diver's flag must be flown or
prominently displayed;




(c)

flags and signals used for work site identification must only be
displayed during active diving operations.

[am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. E, s. 26.]





Rescue boat




24.31


If divers are operating from floating equipment, a suitable power
boat, ready for immediate use, must be available on the dive site, for
rescue or escape.






Hoists




24.32

(1)


If a hoisting device is required to lower or raise the diver it must
not be used for any other purpose until the diver has been recovered.




(2)

All directions to the hoist operator must be given by either the
diver, the diver's tender or the diving supervisor.






Standby diver




24.33

(1)


A standby diver must be




(a)

on the dive site and able to render assistance at all times when
diving operations are in progress,




(b)

trained and equipped to operate at the depths and circumstances of the
dive, and




(c)

able to enter the water in one minute.




(2)

A standby diver on the surface may also perform other duties provided
such duties do not compromise the standby diver's ability to promptly
render emergency assistance to the divers.




(3)

When the diving supervisor can assure that the depth of the dive will
not exceed 18 m (60 ft) and no hazards are present, 2 divers
in the water may act as standby for each other provided that




(a)

each diver is free swimming,




(b)

the no-decompression limit is not exceeded,




(c)

each diver has been trained to effectively rescue a diver in trouble
and has demonstrated this ability to the diving supervisor's
satisfaction,




(d)

the divers are in close proximity to each other at all times so as to
be able to effect rescue, and




(e)

the divers are in constant audio communication with each other and the
surface, or when using scuba they maintain constant physical or visual
contact with each other.




(4)

In subsection (3),
"no hazards are present"
includes, but is not limited to, a dive made in good weather
conditions, where there are no appreciable currents, where there is
good underwater visibility, no possibility of entanglement with
underwater objects, and good access and egress to and from the dive
site.






Incident investigation reports




24.34

(1)


An incident investigation report meeting the requirements of the OHS
provisions of the

Workers Compensation Act

must be submitted to the Board as soon as possible if any of the
following occurs during a diving operation:




(a)

injury or death;




(b)

convulsions or serious impairment of consciousness during or after a
dive;




(c)

decompression illness;




(d)

lung overpressurization;




(e)

any serious mishap, even though the diver escapes actual injury, or a
series of events which render equipment or procedures suspect, before,
during, or after the diving operation.




(2)

The facts must be recorded as soon after the incident as possible, and
the report must include the dive profile and all relevant details.




(3)

In the event of any diving incident,




(a)

the Board reserves the right to take temporary possession of and
investigate all equipment related to the diving operation, and




(b)

the equipment must not be tampered with or altered in any manner until
authorization has been received from the Board.


[am. B.C. Regs. 185/99, s. 71; 195/2015, s. 2; 279/2019, App. D, s.
4.]




Scuba Diving





Communication




24.35


Each diver using scuba must




(a)

employ the buddy system whereby 2 divers remain, at all times, in
constant visual or physical contact and both surface immediately if
they lose that contact,




(b)

be tended on a lifeline by a diver's tender,




(c)

be in constant audio communication with the surface, or




(d)

be tethered, with a minimum 10 mm (3/8 in) diameter synthetic line or
equivalent, to an identifiable float located on the surface that is
constantly visually monitored from a location that allows immediate
assistance to be rendered in case of emergency.






Minimum crew




24.36

(1)


A minimum crew of 3 workers must be present on each dive site if the
dive will




(a)

not exceed 18 m (60 ft) in depth, and




(b)

remain within the no-decompression limit, and




(c)

be made where it is known there is no hazard of entrapment.




(2)

When using the buddy system, a minimum of 2 divers must be present,
and a third person must stay on the surface as a supervisor/tender.




(3)

When using lifelines, floats or audio communication with the surface,




(a)

a standby diver and a supervisor/tender must be on the surface, and




(b)

a tender must tend only one scuba diver unless the divers are on
floats, or have lifelines and effective 3-way voice communication, in
which case the tender may tend 2 divers.




(4)

When a dive does not meet the requirements of subsection (1), then




(a)

a standby diver and a supervisor/tender must stay on the surface, and




(b)

if not using the buddy system, a single diver must be tethered and
carry a bailout bottle.






Restrictions on scuba




24.37

(1)


Scuba must not be used in underwater construction, burning, welding,
salvage operations, demolition, jetting and suction dredging or other
diving operations in which the diver




(a)

may be entrapped,




(b)

does not have free access to the surface,




(c)

may be exposed to a contaminated environment, or




(d)

could be adversely affected by hazardous underwater or surface work
activities or conditions which could be alleviated if the diver were
using surface supplied air.




(2)

Divers using scuba must use open circuit apparatus providing a
breathing medium by an automatic demand flow system.




(3)

Recirculating apparatus may only be used with prior permission of the
Board.




(4)

Divers using scuba must not dive to depths greater than 40 m
(130 ft) unless prior authorization has been received from the
Board.






Equipment




24.38

(1)


Each diver using scuba must use all of the following equipment
appropriate to the diving conditions and as specified by the diving
supervisor:




(a)

a scuba unit complete with a quick release harness and a submersible
pressure gauge;




(b)

a face mask and swimming fins;




(c)

a suitable knife and a depth gauge;




(d)

an exposure suit and an inflatable buoyancy device;




(e)

a weight belt with quick release buckle;




(f)

an underwater watch with elapsed time indicator;




(g)

an underwater light when night diving;




(h)

other equipment as may be required by the Board.




(2)

If a risk of entrapment is present, one complete spare set of
underwater breathing apparatus with fully charged cylinders must be
assembled at the dive site.




(3)

When diving in open water, each free swimming diver must carry an
audible or visual locating device such as a whistle, flare, or strobe
light.






Testing cylinders




24.39

(1)


Each scuba cylinder must be hydrostatically tested at least once every
5 years and visually inspected internally at least once a year.




(2)

The hydrostatic test date must be affixed to the cylinder and entered
into the maintenance log.




(3)

The visual inspection date must be entered in the maintenance log.




Surface Supply Diving





Minimum crew




24.40

(1)


For each diving operation where planned dives do not exceed 40 m
(130 ft) or the no-decompression limits, and where there are no
hazards present, a minimum dive crew of 3 workers must be present, one
of whom must be a diver's supervisor/tender, one a diver and one a
standby diver on the surface unless the standby is permitted by
section 24.33 (3) to serve as a standby in the water.




(2)

If the planned dive exceeds 40 m (130 ft), or the
no-decompression limits, or there are hazards present, the dive crew
must consist of a minimum of 4 workers: a diving supervisor, a diver's
tender and 2 divers, one of whom must be a standby diver on the
surface.






Diver's tender




24.41

(1)


Each surface supplied diver must be tended, hands on, by a separate
diver's tender.




(2)

If audio communications are used, one tender may monitor 2 divers.






Diver's equipment




24.42

(1)


Diver's boots must be patterned, constructed, and fastened to prevent
their loss underwater.




(2)

Every diver must wear a separate weight belt outside the diving dress,
which




(a)

if released must result in the diver achieving positive buoyancy, and




(b)

must be inspected daily before commencing a diving operation.




(3)

Non-return valves must be




(a)

fitted to all surface supplied diving helmets, masks, and hookah
diving systems, and




(b)

checked before commencing a diving operation.




(4)

Each diver must wear a bailout system and carry a suitable knife.




(5)

When divers use a stage to carry out decompression diving, the stage
must have an independent source of emergency breathing gases
sufficient to complete any needed decompression of the diver.






Compressors




24.43


Compressors used to supply air to divers must be




(a)

capable of maintaining a supply of air equal to at least double the
volume of air required,




(b)

capable of developing pressure at least 25% greater than the
anticipated pressure requirement, and




(c)

automatic in operation.

[am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. D, s. 25.]





Volume tanks




24.44


Air from a low pressure compressor must be discharged into a volume
tank of at least 100 litres (22 imp gal) capacity, fitted with




(a)

a no-return valve on the inlet side,




(b)

a pressure gauge,




(c)

an over pressure relief valve, and




(d)

a drain cock capable of draining any fluids.






Breathing air filters




24.45


Air supplied from a volume tank must be passed through a filtration
system consisting of at least a water trap, a particulate filter and a
chemical vapour absorbent.






Manifolds and fittings




24.46

(1)


The manifold system must be provided with




(a)

a primary and a reserve air supply capable of being isolated from each
other, and




(b)

piping of a diameter which ensures an adequate flow of gas to the
diver(s).




(2)

The reserve supply must provide a sufficient quantity of breathing
mixture to enable the diver to return to the surface and undergo all
"in water" decompression.




(3)

If there is no voice communication with the diver, each surface
supplied air system must be equipped with an audible low pressure
alarm situated so that it can be heard by the diving supervisor and
the diver's tender.






Breathing gas lines




24.47

(1)


All stationary breathing air or mixed gas lines must be guarded
against damage or interference.




(2)

Each diver's air or mixed gas line must be fitted with a valve that is




(a)

readily accessible,




(b)

guarded against interference,




(c)

clearly marked to identify the diver it services, and




(d)

under the care and control of the diver's supervisor or diver's
tender.




(3)

Each diver's air or mixed gas line must be fitted with a pressure
gauge to indicate the pressure being delivered to the diver, and the
gauge must be located downstream of the diver's supply valve so that
the dial and figures are clearly visible to the diver's tender.




(4)

All hoses, pipes, couplings and other fittings used in any air or
mixed gas line for divers must be designed and suitable for their
intended use.




(5)

Hoses must be protected from kinking and be capable of sustaining the
required flow rates and pressures for the system used.




(6)

Every umbilical must incorporate a lifeline to prevent stress on the
hose or diver's helmet, and the umbilical and lifeline must be
attached to a suitable diver's harness.




(7)

The standby diver's umbilical and lifeline must be of sufficient
length to reach the operating diver.




Deep Diving





General requirements




24.48


Divers who take part in deep diving operations must




(a)

be tethered to the work base by a breathing gas umbilical,




(b)

have effective two-way voice communications with the surface, and




(c)

be supplied with a mixed gas breathing medium.






Hyperbaric chamber




24.49


An approved double lock hyperbaric chamber must be on the dive site
and in operable condition.






Transportation to the underwater worksite




24.50

(1)


If the depth of the dive is less than 73 m (240 ft) and the
total "in water" ascent time is less than 1 hour, the diver must
be transported to and from the underwater worksite by a stage, bell,
or submersible compression chamber (SCC).




(2)

If the depth or time exceeds the conditions in subsection (1) an SCC
must be used to transport the diver.




(3)

The standby diver must be stationed at the surface, or if an SCC is
used the standby diver must be in the SCC.




(4)

The diving supervisor must have a means of




(a)

monitoring the depth of the diver and the SCC,




(b)

controlling the pressures of the breathing mixtures supplied to each
diver and the standby diver, and




(c)

continuously analyzing the breathing mixture.






Rest periods




24.51

(1)


If non-saturation diving techniques are used in a deep diving
operation, the diving supervisor must ensure there is a rest period of
at least 24 continuous hours following the completion of
decompression.




(2)

If saturation diving techniques are used, the diving supervisor must
ensure that




(a)

if the dive is to a depth of 150 m (500 ft) or less, a diver
does not exceed 4 hours in the water and 4 hours as an attendant
in the SCC,




(b)

if the dive is deeper than 150 m (500 ft), a diver does not
exceed 3 hours in the water and 3 hours as an attendant in
the SCC, and




(c)

in any 24 hour period, there is a rest period of at least 12
continuous hours after the applicable time limits in paragraphs (a)
and (b) have been reached.




(3)

A diver must not commence another dive within 7 days of completion of
decompression following a saturation dive unless at the discretion of
a physician knowledgeable and competent in diving medicine.




Submersible Compression Chambers (SCC) and Lock-Out Submersibles (LOS)





Standards




24.52


Submersible Compression Chambers and Lock-Out Submersibles must meet
the requirements of
CSA Standard Z275.1-93, Hyperbaric Facilities
.

[am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. A, s. 5.]





General equipment requirements




24.53


Each SCC and LOS must be equipped to permit the transfer of persons
under pressure into and from a surface compression chamber, and must
have




(a)

doors and hatches that act as pressure seals, and that may be opened
from either side,




(b)

valves, gauges, and other fittings necessary to control the internal
pressure and to clearly indicate the internal and external pressures,




(c)

spring loaded pressurization and main exhaust valves which will close
when not held in the open position,




(d)

a reserve breathing mixture for persons occupying or working from the
SCC or LOS, which must be protected against inadvertent operation and
be capable of being brought on line from within the SCC or LOS without
outside assistance,




(e)

a two-way voice communication system capable of continuously recording
and saving the previous 4 hours of conversation, with emergency backup
capabilities, through which a person in the SCC or LOS can communicate
with the diving supervisor,




(f)

heating and lighting equipment including emergency backup
illumination,




(g)

first aid equipment, without towelettes,




(h)

a hoisting device to bring an unconscious or injured diver into the
chamber,




(i)

a standby diver's umbilical bundle which must be 3 m (10 ft)
longer than the diver's umbilical bundle,




(j)

a strobe light that is activated while the chamber is in the water,




(k)

an emergency locating device with a surface receiver operating at 37.5
kHz,




(l)

instruments to monitor temperature, oxygen and carbon dioxide levels
within the chamber, and for an SCC the instrument readings must be
readable on the surface,




(m)

primary and emergency carbon dioxide scrubbers,




(n)

hull integrity valves mounted on all gas and other penetrations into
the submersible compression chamber,




(o)

a secondary source of power for the diving systems and equipment that
can be rapidly brought on line in the event the primary energy source
fails, and




(p)

in a diving operation in which an SCC is used, a sufficient quantity
of breathing mixture to meet the needs of the occupants of the chamber
for at least 24 hours.

[am. B.C. Reg. 348/2003, s. 9.]





Design




24.54


Each SCC and LOS must be of a design that




(a)

allows divers to enter and exit without difficulty,




(b)

allows at least 2 divers, equipped and dressed for the diving
operation, to be seated within, and




(c)

in case of emergency, allows a diver within to disconnect or shear the
primary lifting cable and the umbilical bundle.






Lifting gear




24.55

(1)


Each SCC and LOS must be used in association with lifting gear that




(a)

enables the SCC or LOS to be lowered to the depth at which the diving
operation is to be carried out, without excessive lateral, vertical,
or rotational movement taking place,




(b)

is provided with, in addition to the primary lifting cable, a tag rope
so designed that in the event of the primary cable breaking during an
air water interface transfer, the tag rope will permit the SCC or LOS
to descend only to a calm area immediately below the turbulent wave
zone, and




(c)

is provided with a secondary means of being returned to the surface in
the event of failure of the main lifting gear.




(2)

If use of the secondary means in subsection (1) (c) involves shedding
weights, the controls for shedding weights must be operable from
within the SCC or LOS and must incorporate a means to prevent the
weights from being shed inadvertently.






Secondary lifting equipment




24.56

(1)


An LOS must be provided with




(a)

a secondary lifting eye or similar device of at least the same
strength as the primary lifting eye, and




(b)

a secondary lifting cable that is readily available and of at least
the same strength as the primary lifting cable, and is compatible with
the secondary lifting eye or similar device.




(2)

An SCC must be provided with




(a)

a secondary lifting eye or similar device of at least the same
strength as the primary lifting eye, and




(b)

a secondary lifting cable that is attached and capable of returning
the SCC to the surface.




(3)

An alternative means must be provided to return the SCC or LOS to the
deck.






Diving system procedures




24.57

(1)


The diving supervisor must ensure that a lock-out diving operation is
not conducted from a submersible unless




(a)

the submersible is negatively buoyant on the bottom or positively
secured to the work site,




(b)

the diving supervisor is on board the submersible and present in the
one atmosphere chamber during the lock-out operation, and




(c)

a standby diver is monitoring the lock-out operation from the
submersible's compression chamber and is dressed and equipped to
immediately carry out rescue operations in the event of an emergency.




(2)

The diving supervisor must ensure that lock-out submersible and
atmospheric diving system operations are not conducted unless




(a)

a backup unit with sufficient depth capabilities to effect a rescue is
available for use in the event of an emergency,




(b)

the on-board life-support system of the LOS is capable of sustaining
life for a period of time that would enable the backup unit to reach
the site of the diving operation and effect rescue, and




(c)

a breathing mixture is provided that will meet the needs of the
occupants for at least 48 hours.




Atmospheric Diving Systems (ADS)





Registration




24.58


The employer must ensure that an atmospheric diving system meets the
requirements for registration with Lloyd's Registry of Shipping, the
American Bureau of Shipping, or Det Norske Veritas.






General equipment requirements




24.59


An ADS must have




(a)

valves, gauges, and other fittings necessary to control the internal
pressure, and to clearly indicate the internal and external pressures,




(b)

a reserve breathing mixture for persons occupying the ADS, a mixture
which is protected against inadvertent operation and is capable of
being brought on line from inside, without outside assistance,




(c)

a two-way voice communication system, capable of continuously
recording and saving the previous 4 hours of conversation, and with
emergency backup capabilities, by which a person inside the
atmospheric diving system can communicate with the diving supervisor,




(d)

lighting equipment including emergency backup illumination,




(e)

first aid equipment,




(f)

heating equipment and thermal protection for all occupants,




(g)

a strobe light that can be activated while the ADS is in the water,




(h)

an emergency locating device with a surface receiver operating at 37.5
kHz,




(i)

instruments to enable occupants to monitor the temperature, oxygen and
carbon dioxide within the atmospheric diving system,




(j)

a primary and an emergency means of scrubbing carbon dioxide,




(k)

a device which allows the occupant to disconnect or shear the primary
lifting cable and the umbilical bundle in an emergency, and




(l)

in addition to the primary lifting cable, a tag rope or secondary
lifting method so designed that in the event of the primary cable
breaking during an air water interface transfer, the tag rope or
secondary method will permit the ADS to descend only to a calm area
immediately below the turbulent wave zone.






Secondary means of surfacing




24.60

(1)


The employer must ensure that atmospheric diving operations are not
conducted unless the atmospheric diving system is provided with a
secondary means of returning to the surface in the event the main
lifting gear fails.




(2)

If use of the secondary means involves shedding weights, the controls
for shedding weights must be operable from within and must incorporate
a means to prevent the weights from being shed inadvertently.






Secondary lifting equipment




24.61


An ADS must be provided with




(a)

a secondary lifting eye or similar device that is of at least the same
strength as the primary lifting eye, and




(b)

a secondary lifting cable that is readily available and of at least
the same strength as the primary lifting cable, and is compatible with
the secondary lifting eye or device.




Altitude Diving





General procedures




24.62

(1)


The diving supervisor must ensure that altitude diving operations are
conducted in accordance with acceptable altitude diving tables.




(2)

Altitude diving procedures must address




(a)

acclimatization at the dive site to reduce the diver's nitrogen load
caused by the reduced atmospheric pressure at the increased altitude,




(b)

the equivalent ocean depth in order to select the appropriate tables
at the altitude,




(c)

accurate methods of calculating the diver's actual depth of dive,




(d)

calculation of the reduction in ascent rate due to the increase in
altitude, and




(e)

post dive travel considerations.




Specific Diving Hazards





Hazardous mechanisms




24.63


Before a diver enters the water all hazardous mechanisms must be




(a)

secured against inadvertent movement, and




(b)

locked out as required by Part 10 (De-energization and Lockout).






Intakes, pipes and tunnels




24.64

(1)


If a diver is required to approach or enter the intake of any pipe,
tunnel, duct, or similar installation the diver must be provided with
the means to distinguish the specific intake from any others in the
vicinity.




(2)

A diver must not enter the water until flow through the intake is
stopped and the intake mechanism is locked out, and the flow must not
be restarted until the diver has left the water.




(3)

If divers are required to approach a hazardous mechanism, a pressure
differential structure, or the intake of any pipe, tunnel, duct or
similar installation, the divers must use only surface-tethered diving
equipment with effective two-way voice communication with the surface;
if required to enter, they must use only surface supplied diving
equipment with effective two-way voice communication with the surface.






Exceptional hazards




24.65


Additional dive team members with independent equipment and capable of
effecting rescue must be on the dive site whenever diving operations
incur exceptional risk of entrapment of a diver or loss of the diver's
life support system.






Contaminated environments




24.66

(1)


Before diving commences in a contaminated environment, an operational
plan must be devised that is available at the dive site and provides
for




(a)

identification of the contaminants,




(b)

special clothing or equipment to be used,




(c)

potential adverse health effects to persons and special medical
precautionary measures,




(d)

identification of the exclusion zone, contamination reduction zone and
the support zone, and protective clothing and equipment to be used in
them,




(e)

measures to be followed by personnel when moving from one zone to
another,




(f)

special first aid measures associated with exposure to the specific
contaminants, and




(g)

emergency telephone numbers to secure qualified assistance within
adequate response times.




(2)

The diving supervisor must ensure that




(a)

emergency breathing apparatus is provided for surface support
personnel if there is risk of inhaling dangerous contaminants during
the diving operations,




(b)

suitable apparel and equipment is worn by surface support personnel to
prevent exposure to contaminants,




(c)

an appropriate means of safely decontaminating personnel is available
at the dive site,




(d)

the dive site has the means and facilities to safely dispose of
contaminated clothing and equipment,




(e)

all diving systems and equipment exposed to the contaminant are
inspected for deterioration before each dive,




(f)

diaphragms of the first and second regulators and associated exhaust
valves are inspected for deterioration before each dive, and




(g)

contaminated diving systems and equipment are not removed from the
dive site unless authorized by the diving supervisor, and are not used
in any subsequent diving operation unless found free of all
contaminants.




(3)

A minimum crew of 4 workers must be present at a diving operation in a
contaminated environment, one of whom must be a diver, one a diving
supervisor, one a diver's tender, and one a standby diver.




(4)

The diving supervisor must ensure that scuba is not used for diving
operations in a contaminated environment.




(5)

For dives in contaminated environments, the diving supervisor must
ensure that divers use surface supply equipment including




(a)

a surface supply diving helmet designed and suitable for such work,




(b)

a totally enclosed diving suit, made of nonabsorbent material which
mates to the helmet with a positive seal and locking device,




(c)

a two-way voice communication system, and




(d)

protective devices, where practicable, to minimize contaminant
exposure to diving equipment.




(6)

For dives in contaminated environments, the following zones must be
established on site:




(a)

a dedicated contamination reduction zone with suitable means to
decontaminate personnel;




(b)

a dedicated support zone with suitable means to decontaminate or
dispose of apparel and equipment;




(c)

a dedicated exclusion zone to handle the contaminant, accessible only
to authorized and protected personnel.




(7)

For dives in contaminated environments,




(a)

workers entering the exclusion zone must wear appropriate personal
protective equipment,




(b)

workers must enter and leave the exclusion zone only through the
contamination reduction zone, and




(c)

no food, drink, or tobacco may be taken into the exclusion zone or the
contamination zone.




Live Boating





General requirements




24.67


Live boating diving operations must be conducted only




(a)

during daylight hours,




(b)

in appropriate weather, current and sea conditions,




(c)

from a vessel with the necessary maneuverability to ensure the diver's
safety, and which is under the control of a competent master, and




(d)

within the no-decompression limits.






Procedures




24.68


The diving supervisor must ensure that




(a)

a procedure or device is in place that will prevent the diver's
lifeline or umbilical bundle from becoming entangled in the boat's
propulsion system,




(b)

the diver's tender is in a position of unobstructed view to the vessel
master and the diving supervisor,




(c)

the propulsion system is disengaged when the diver enters or leaves
the water,




(d)

the diver's umbilical or lifeline is monitored, hands on, by a diver's
tender,




(e)

there is continuous voice communication,




(f)

no more than 70% of the diver's umbilical or lifeline is deployed
during the diving operation,




(g)

the vessel master is competent to perform live boating operations and
is under the direct control of the diving supervisor during diving
operations, and




(h)

all dive crew members are familiar with their duties and
responsibilities with respect to the diver's safety, and they may
terminate the dive if the diver's safety is jeopardized.




Fishing Operations

General Requirements





Application




24.69

(1)


Sections 8.26 and 8.28 do not apply to a crewmember of a fishing
vessel.




(2)

Section 8.29 does not apply to an owner or master of a fishing vessel.




(3)

Sections 8.27 and 8.30 do not apply to a personal flotation device
(PFD) or lifejacket used on a fishing vessel.

[en. B.C. Reg. 14/2019, App. E, s. 4.]





Compliance with standards




24.70


All fishing vessels must




(a)

be maintained in seaworthy condition, and




(b)

be built in accordance with the applicable regulations under the

Canada Shipping Act, 2001

.

[am. B.C. Reg. 222/2021, App. C, s. 2.]





Owner and master responsibilities




24.71

(1)


An owner of a fishing vessel must ensure that all machinery and
equipment on board a fishing vessel is capable of safely performing
the functions for which it is used.




(2)

The owner must ensure that major modifications to a fishing vessel do
not adversely affect the stability of the vessel.




(3)

The master of a fishing vessel must ensure that




(a)

machinery and equipment is properly maintained and functions safely
during the voyage, and




(b)

any replacement equipment meets the requirements of this Part.






Documentation




24.72


The owner of every fishing vessel must provide documentation on board,
readily accessible to crewmembers, which describes




(a)

engine room instructions,




(b)

vessel characteristics, including stability,




(c)

the location and use of firefighting equipment, and




(d)

the location and use of emergency equipment, including radio
equipment.






Instruction




24.73

(1)


Before the start of each fishing season, the master must ensure that
each crewmember is instructed in the operational characteristics of
the fishing vessel including




(a)

the location and use of safety equipment, engine room components and
controls,




(b)

deck equipment and rigging,




(c)

navigation equipment and electronic aids,




(d)

fishing equipment and its use, including safe work practices for each
fishery the vessel will be engaged in,




(e)

procedures for anchoring the vessel,




(f)

the location and use of emergency equipment, including firefighting
and radio equipment, and




(g)

escape routes in the event of fire.




(2)

The master must ensure as far as is reasonably practicable, that the
instruction required by subsection (1) results in each crewmember
being able to apply the information as needed to protect the
crewmember's health and safety.




(3)

New crewmembers joining the vessel must be instructed in accordance
with the requirements of this section at the time that they join the
vessel.






Emergency procedures




24.74

(1)


The master must establish procedures and assign responsibilities to
each crewmember to cover all emergencies including




(a)

crewmember overboard,




(b)

fire on board,




(c)

flooding of the vessel,




(d)

abandoning ship, and




(e)

calling for help.




(2)

The master must ensure that drills are conducted at the start of each
fishing season, when there is a change of crew, and at periodic
intervals to ensure that crewmembers are familiar with emergency
procedures.






Crewmember responsibility




24.75


Crewmembers must take all reasonable precautions necessary to ensure
the health and safety of themselves and other persons on board the
fishing vessel.






Vessel preparation




24.76


Before leaving on a voyage the master must ensure that the fishing
vessel is capable of safely making the passage, due consideration
being given to




(a)

the seaworthiness of the vessel,




(b)

the stowage and securing of all cargo, skiffs, equipment, fuel
containers and supplies,




(c)

ballasting, and




(d)

present and forecast weather conditions.






Reporting injuries




24.77

(1)


Crewmembers must report all injuries to the master, without delay.




(2)

The master must report to the owner of the fishing vessel all injuries
that required medical aid and record all injuries in the vessel log
book.






Unsafe conditions




24.78

(1)


A crewmember who observes an unsafe or harmful condition or situation
must immediately report it to the master.




(2)

The master must ensure that action is taken, without delay, to correct
an unsafe or harmful condition or situation.






Repealed




24.79


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 348/2003, s. 10.]






Slipping and tripping hazards




24.80

(1)


All work areas must be kept




(a)

clear of unnecessary obstructions, and




(b)

free of slipping and tripping hazards.




(2)

Decks must have non-skid surfaces except in those locations where a
smooth deck is required for handling fish.




(3)

Tools and equipment must be securely stowed when not in use.






Guarding of equipment




24.81


The owner of a fishing vessel must ensure that moving parts of power
operated equipment are, where practicable, fitted with effective
guards if such parts constitute a danger to crewmembers.






Inspection of rigging




24.82


The master must ensure that all rigging is maintained and inspected
regularly to ensure that it is able to safely carry out the work for
which it was designed.






Access and egress




24.83


Every portable ladder or gangway between a fishing vessel and shore,
between vessels, or when used on board a vessel must be designed and
rigged to provide safe access and egress.






Protection from falling




24.84

(1)


Crewmembers must be protected from falling overboard by means of
grabrails, siderails, handrails, guardrails or personal fall
protection equipment.




(2)

Crewmembers working aloft or on deck during adverse weather conditions
must tie off to a lifeline to prevent falling.






Deck openings




24.85

(1)


Deck openings and hatches on a fishing vessel must be




(a)

equipped with an effective means of securing them, and




(b)

closed and secured when it is not essential to the fishing operation
that they be open.




(2)

When deck openings and hatches are required to be open for ventilation
or other purposes, they must be marked and guarded.






De-energization




24.86

(1)


The maintenance and repair of machinery or equipment on board a
fishing vessel must only be carried out when the power source has been
de-energized and effectively secured to prevent inadvertent startup.




(2)

If it is essential that equipment remain operational during the
maintenance process, the master must establish a procedure to prevent
injury from contact with moving or energized parts.




(3)

The main engine must be shut off whenever a diver is conducting work
underwater in proximity to the vessel.






Equipment control devices




24.87

(1)


Winches, drums, capstans, and similar equipment on board a fishing
vessel must have at least one master on/off control that is readily
accessible on deck.




(2)

Drum pedals and other types of hold-to-run controls must not be
bypassed or otherwise rendered ineffective.






Braking devices




24.88


Winches and drums capable of freewheeling must be fitted with an
effective braking device.






Illumination




24.89


All work areas on board a fishing vessel must be sufficiently
illuminated to enable work to be done safely.






Ventilation




24.90


All crew spaces on fishing vessels must be provided with an adequate
supply of fresh air either by passive or mechanical means.






Propane installations




24.91


Propane, liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) and compressed natural gas
(CNG) installations used for appliances on fishing vessels must be in
conformity with the

NFPA Standard 302-1989, Fire Protection Standard for Pleasure and
Commercial Motor Craft

.






Galley requirements




24.92

(1)


Galley stoves on fishing vessels must be fitted with rails or other
means to restrain the movement of cooking utensils, and to prevent
inadvertent contact by crewmembers.




(2)

Stove fuel supply tanks and lines must




(a)

be fitted with a shutoff valve at the tank, and




(b)

not be located directly above the stove.




(3)

Galley stoves must




(a)

be secured to prevent movement, and




(b)

have sufficient clearance to permit the effective cleanup of oil and
grease.






Requirements for sensors and alarms




24.93

(1)


An owner of a fishing vessel must ensure that a heat sensor, connected
to an alarm system, is installed




(a)

above the galley stove or near the stove pipe, and




(b)

in proximity to the engine exhaust.




(2)

The owner must ensure that a water level sensor, connected to an alarm
system, is installed




(a)

in the machinery space bilges, and




(b)

in the shaft log or lazarette.




(3)

The owner must ensure that main engines are fitted with low oil
pressure and high temperature sensors connected to an alarm system.




(4)

The owner must ensure that a sensor and alarm system is installed if
the Board considers this necessary to detect leaks of potentially
explosive fuel used in engines or appliances.




(5)

The owner must ensure that an audible marine grade carbon monoxide
sensor, connected to an alarm system where practicable, is installed
in crew quarters.

[am. B.C. Reg. 243/2006, s. 13.]





Repealed





24.94-

24.95




Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. D, s. 26.]






Protection against cold




24.96


Crewmembers working in freezers must wear clothing, including
headgear, footwear and gloves, that provides adequate protection
against cold.






When crewmember must wear a personal flotation device (PFD) or
lifejacket




24.96.1


A crewmember must wear a personal flotation device (PFD) or lifejacket
on a fishing vessel if the crewmember is




(a)

on board the fishing vessel, in the case of a fishing vessel that has
no deck or deck structure, or




(b)

on the deck or in the cockpit of the fishing vessel, in the case of a
fishing vessel that has a deck or deck structure.

[en. B.C. Reg. 14/2019, App. E, s. 5.]





Crewmember working alone




24.96.2


If a crewmember is working alone on a fishing vessel, the crewmember
must wear a lifejacket that




(a)

has a minimum buoyancy of 93 N (21 lbs), and




(b)

is inherently buoyant or automatically inflatable.

[en. B.C. Reg. 14/2019, App. E, s. 5.]





Record of inspection and maintenance




24.96.3


If crewmembers use inflatable personal flotation devices (PFDs) or
automatically inflatable lifejackets on a fishing vessel, the owner or
the master must keep a record of all inspections made and maintenance
performed on those PFDs or automatically inflatable lifejackets.

[en. B.C. Reg. 14/2019, App. E, s. 5.]





Crewmember overboard




24.97

(1)


Every fishing vessel must carry, for each crewmember, one immersion
suit meeting standards acceptable to the Board.




(2)

The master of a vessel must ensure that there is suitable equipment on
board and that procedures have been developed which will enable the
prompt recovery of a crewmember overboard.






Davits




24.98


The owner of a fishing vessel must ensure that all moveable davits are
fitted with an effective locking device.






Communication




24.99


The master must ensure that effective procedures are developed to
communicate between the bridge and all work areas on the vessel.






Ozone generators




24.100


The owner of a fishing vessel must ensure that ozone generating
equipment is installed and operated in accordance with standards
acceptable to the Board.






Loading and offloading




24.101


The master of a fishing vessel carrying fish or cargo must establish
safe procedures for the loading and offloading of fish and cargo.






Work areas and operations




24.102


All work areas must be arranged and operations organized to minimize
the potential for injury to crewmembers, including strains and
sprains.






Proper lifting




24.103


The master must ensure that crewmembers are instructed in and use
proper lifting techniques.




Requirements for Specific Fishing Operations

Gillnetting

Salmon





Drums




24.104


The owner of a gillnet vessel must ensure that drums are fitted with




(a)

an effective ratchet device for picking up the net under heavy strain,




(b)

an effective brake to maintain control when setting out the net, and




(c)

a hold-to-run control.

[am. B.C. Reg. 243/2006, s. 14.]





Pin rollers




24.105

(1)


The owner must ensure that pin rollers are of a design to prevent
their inadvertent lifting.




(2)

The master must ensure that pin rollers are maintained to prevent
their inadvertent lifting.




Herring





Work areas and safeguarding




24.106

(1)


Work areas on herring skiffs and punts must be arranged to prevent
contact with moving equipment such as beaters and live rollers.




(2)

The owner of a herring gillnet vessel must ensure that drums are
fitted with




(a)

an effective ratchet device for picking up the net under heavy strain
and an effective brake to maintain control when setting out the net,
and




(b)

a hold-to-run control or other equally effective safeguard to stop the
drums if a worker becomes entangled in the net or lines being wound in
by the drum.

[en. B.C. Reg. 243/2006, s. 15.]





Fouled propellers




24.107


The master of a herring skiff or punt must develop safe work
procedures to direct crewmembers in how to clear fouled propellers.






Hauling net anchors




24.108


The owner must ensure that, when required by fishing conditions,
herring skiffs and punts are fitted with mechanical means for hauling
net anchors.






Brailers




24.109


Crewmembers must keep clear of brailers when unloading herring.






Towing skiffs




24.110


The master of a fishing vessel that will tow a skiff or punt must
develop safe procedures for towing in all weather conditions including




(a)

a means of self bailing,




(b)

the use of tow line shock absorbers, and




(c)

the use of drogue devices to prevent sheering and overtaking.




Handlining





Gloves




24.111


Crewmembers must wear hand protection acceptable to the Board when
handlining.




Longlining





Setting procedures




24.112


The master must establish safe procedures for setting gear to prevent
crewmembers being caught by hooks and other gear.






Knives




24.113


Each setting and hauling station must be equipped with a knife capable
of cutting the gear.






Guarding




24.114


Drums and automated systems using longlines with hooks attached must
be guarded or shielded to prevent inadvertent contact with hooks.






Hoisting device




24.115


If there is a potential for injury to crewmembers, a hoisting device
must be provided and used to lift large fish.




Seining

General Requirements





Hairpins and ringstrippers




24.116

(1)


Seiners built after January 1, 1995 must be fitted with ringstrippers.




(2)

The owner of a seiner must ensure that hairpins or ringstrippers on
the vessel are designed and constructed so that crewmembers will not
be endangered by their use.




(3)

The master of a seiner must, if applicable, develop safe hairpin or
ringstripper operating procedures which include




(a)

consideration of sea and tide conditions,




(b)

crew coordination,




(c)

communication,




(d)

spooling gear,




(e)

drumming, and




(f)

hoisting and securing.






Spooling gear




24.117

(1)


The owner of a seiner must ensure that pursing winches and leads are
positioned to permit proper spooling.




(2)

Crewmembers must keep clear of the stern spooling gear while it is in
operation.






Lifting the bag




24.118

(1)


Whenever drawing the bag over the stern presents a risk of equipment
failure or vessel instability, alternate procedures such as splitting
the lift or brailing must be developed and used.




(2)

Crewmembers must stay clear of the bag when it is brought over the
stern roller.






Drum operation




24.119


Crewmembers operating the drum must not leave the controls while the
drum is turning.






Brailing




24.120


The master of a seiner carrying a brailer must ensure that crewmembers
are instructed in safe brailing procedures.






Purse rings




24.121


Purse rings on all seine nets must be secured to the middle of the
ring strap to prevent rings from falling when fleeting the net through
the power block.






Pumps




24.122

(1)


The owner of a seiner carrying pumping gear must ensure that it is
capable of pumping fish from the bottom of the bunt while on a set.




(2)

If 2 or more fishing vessels are working in a team, the pumping gear
may be shared between the vessels.






Drying up




24.123


The master of a seiner must establish a safe drying up procedure which
includes




(a)

communication on deck and between vessels,




(b)

coordination of activities,




(c)

securing the net,




(d)

hoisting fleets, and




(e)

the means of jettisoning the set should the vessel become endangered.






Power blocks




24.124

(1)


Power block haul lines must be minimum 25 mm (1 in) diameter double
braid nylon or equivalent.




(2)

The master must ensure that power block haul lines are inspected
frequently and maintained in safe condition.




(3)

Haul lines must be shackled to the power block.




(4)

A power block must be equipped with an effective safety line when
suspended above the deck.




Seine Skiffs





Communication




24.125


The master of a seiner must ensure there is an effective means of
communication between the vessel and the skiff during towing
operations.






Skiff design




24.126

(1)


Decks and floors of skiffs must be non-skid.




(2)

Rails and sides of skiffs must be maintained free of protrusions that
could snag the net.






Equipment stowage




24.127


Lines and other necessary equipment in skiffs must be securely stowed
to prevent slipping and tripping.






Repealed




24.128


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 14/2019, App. E, s. 6.]






Engine exhaust




24.129


The owner must ensure that the exhaust system for an engine in a
powered skiff




(a)

directs the exhaust away from crewmembers, and




(b)

is shielded to prevent burns.






Capsize protection




24.130

(1)


Towposts in skiffs must be designed and installed to minimize the
potential for capsizing.




(2)

Power skiffs must be operated in a manner that eliminates the danger
of capsizing from backlash in the net.




Beachline Operations





Instruction




24.131

(1)


The master of a salmon seiner must ensure that only trained and
adequately supervised crewmembers are permitted to tie up to the beach
during fishing operations.




(2)

The training required in subsection (1) includes instruction in




(a)

proper knots,




(b)

assessing the tie-up,




(c)

beachline straps,




(d)

communication,




(e)

tying and untying procedures, and




(f)

cutting the strap.






Tie-up sites




24.132


Beach tie-up sites must be selected with due regard for the health and
safety of crewmembers, consideration being given to terrain, wind and
sea conditions.






Personal protective equipment




24.133


Crewmembers engaged in beach tie-ups must




(a)

wear appropriate gloves and footwear meeting the requirements of the
Board, and




(b)

carry a knife capable of cutting the beachline or strap.






Night operations




24.134


The master of a salmon seiner must not conduct beach operations during
darkness unless




(a)

crewmembers are properly trained in night-time procedures,




(b)

crewmembers in the skiff wear high visibility apparel,




(c)

the vessel has the capability of adequately illuminating the work
area, and




(d)

an effective means of communication is established between the skiff
and the seiner.




Trap Fishing





Master's responsibility




24.135


The master must ensure that the stability of the fishing vessel is not
compromised by




(a)

the number of traps loaded on the vessel, and




(b)

the manner in which the traps are loaded.






Securing traps




24.136


Traps must be secured to prevent inadvertent swinging or other
movement during setting and hauling.






Lifelines




24.137


Crewmembers working on the stern setting black cod traps must be tied
off with a safety belt or harness, and lifeline, both meeting
standards acceptable to the Board.




Trawling





Safe work procedures




24.138

(1)


The master must establish safe work procedures for shooting and
hauling trawls.




(2)

When shooting the trawl, crewmembers must stay clear of the net once
the cod end is overboard.




(3)

When hooking up and unhooking trawl doors on the davits, crewmembers
must stay clear of pinch points.




(4)

The master must establish a safe fleeting procedure.






Securing areas and equipment




24.139

(1)


Open stern ramps must be roped off or otherwise guarded except when
the area must be open for trawling operations.




(2)

Beams must be secured to prevent inadvertent movement when attaching
or detaching plumb staffs.




(3)

Trawl doors and otter boards must be secured to davits when not in
use.




(4)

Shrimp and fish boxes must be secured to prevent inadvertent movement.






Splitting straps




24.140


All trawl cod ends must be fitted with splitting straps.




Trolling





Trolling poles




24.141


Trolling poles and stabilizer poles must be fitted with safety straps
or other devices to limit their downward travel and to lock them in
the down position.






Gurdy brakes




24.142


Gurdy braking devices must be maintained in good working order.






Cockpit covers




24.143


Cockpits must be equipped with covers and an adequate means to secure
them in adverse weather.




Contents
|



Parts 1 to 3

|


Part 4
|


Part 5
|


Part 6
|


Part 7
|


Part 8
|


Part 9
|



Parts 10 to 11

|


Part 12
|


Part 13
|


Part 14
|


Part 15
|


Part 16
|



Parts 17 to 18

|


Part 19
|


Part 20
|


Part 21
|


Part 22
|


Part 23
|

Part 24 |


Parts 25 to 26

|


Part 27
|


Part 28
|



Parts 29 to 34

|



Schedules





