







B.C. Reg. 337/95

O.C. 1027/95


Deposited August 18, 1995

effective September 18, 1995





This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Access to Abortion Services Act


Abortion Services Access Zone Regulation


[includes amendments up to B.C. Reg. 104/2018, June 1, 2018.]






Repealed




1


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 106/2002, s. 2.]






Everywoman's Health Centre Society




1.1


Subject to section 5 (3) of the

Access to Abortion Services Act

, the access zone for the facility operated by the Everywoman's Health
Centre Society (1988) at 2525 Commercial Drive in the city of
Vancouver is established as the area within the heavy outline shown on
the plan in Appendix 1.1.

[en. B.C. Reg. 106/2002, s. 1 (a).]





Repealed




2


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 277/2000, s. 2.]






Elizabeth Bagshaw Society




2.1


Subject to section 5 (3) of the

Access to Abortion Services Act

, the access zone for the facility operated by the Elizabeth Bagshaw
Society at 1177 West Broadway in the City of Vancouver is established
as the area within the heavy outline shown on the plan in
Appendix 2.1.

[en. B.C. Reg. 277/2000, s. 1.]





Vancouver Hospital and Health Sciences Centre (Surgical Day Care
Centre)




3


Subject to section 5 (3) of the

Access to Abortion Services Act

, the access zone for the facility operated by the Vancouver Hospital
and Health Services Centre at 795 West 13th Avenue in the City of
Vancouver is established as the area within the heavy outline shown on
the plan in Appendix 3.

[en. B.C. Reg. 385/98, s. (a).]





Vancouver Hospital and Health Sciences Centre (Laurel Pavilion — Main
Entrance)




4


Subject to section 5 (3) of the

Access to Abortion Services Act

, the access zone for the facility operated by the Vancouver Hospital
and Health Services Centre at 899 West 12th Avenue in the City of
Vancouver is established as the area within the heavy outline shown on
the plan in Appendix 4.

[en. B.C. Reg. 385/98, s. (a).]





Vancouver Island Women's Clinic




5


Subject to section 5 (3) of the

Access to Abortion Services Act

, the access zone for the facility operated by the Vancouver Island
Women's Clinic at 104 — 284 Helmcken Road in the Town of View Royal is
established as the area within the heavy outline on the plan in
Appendix 5.

[en. B.C. Reg. 104/2018, s. (a).]



Appendices 1 to 5



Appendix 1

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 106/2002, s. 2.]


Appendix 1.1

[en. B.C. Reg. 106/2002, s. 1 (b).]





Appendix 2

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 277/2000, s. 2.]


Appendix 2.1

[en. B.C. Reg. 277/2000, s. 1.]





Appendix 3

[en. B.C. Reg. 385/98, s. (b).]





Appendix 4

[en. B.C. Reg. 385/98, s. (b).]





Appendix 5

[en. B.C. Reg. 104/2018, s. (b).]





Note: The appendices are exempt from publication, but for the sake of
convenient reference they are shown here at approximately one quarter
their original size. You may inspect a full size copy at the office of
the Surveyor General, 3400 Davidson Avenue, Victoria, B.C. V8Z 3P8.



Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Access to Abortion Services Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 1, ss. 5 (1) and 15]



