







B.C. Reg. 13/2000

O.C. 35/2000


Deposited January 28, 2000

effective February 28, 2000





This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to Point in Time




Adult Guardianship Act



Adult Guardianship

(Abuse and Neglect) Regulation



[includes amendments up to B.C. Reg. 13/2011, September 1, 2011]






Definitions




1


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the

Adult Guardianship Act

;


"assessment"
means an assessment of whether an adult is incapable of deciding not
to accept the services proposed in a support and assistance plan;


"assessor"
means a person authorized by the Public Guardian and Trustee to do
assessments;



"designated agency"

means a public body, organization or person designated by regulation
of the Public Guardian and Trustee for the purposes of Part 3 of the
Act;



"Practice Guidelines for Incapability Assessment"

means the guidelines approved by the Public Guardian and Trustee for
the purposes of this regulation and Part 3 of the Act;



"support and assistance plan"

means a plan developed under section 51 (1) (g) of the Act;



"trust company"

means a trust company, or extraprovincial trust corporation,
authorized under the

Financial Institutions Act

to do trust business.






Arranging for assessment of incapability




2

(1)


On being asked by a designated agency to arrange for an assessment,
the Public Guardian and Trustee may arrange for the adult to be
examined by




(a)

a team of assessors, or




(b)

one assessor if, because of geographic location or other special
circumstances, it is not reasonable in the Public Guardian and
Trustee's opinion to require a team of assessors.




(2)

The designated agency that asked for the assessment must




(a)

allow an assessor to examine any records relevant to the assessment,
and




(b)

provide any other assistance that is requested by an assessor and is
necessary for completing the assessment.






How incapability is assessed




3

(1)


When an adult is being assessed, at least one assessor must inform the
adult that an assessment is being done and must explain the purpose.




(2)

Each assessor must follow the Practice Guidelines for Incapability
Assessment.




(3)

If an adult refuses to participate in all or part of an assessment,
the assessment may be performed using observational information and
information gathered from other sources, if the assessor reasonably
believes the assessment would be accurately completed by doing so.




(4)

When deciding whether the adult is incapable, an assessor must base
the decision on whether the adult understands




(a)

the services described in the support and assistance plan,




(b)

why the services are being offered to the adult, and




(c)

the consequences to the adult of not accepting the services.

[am. B.C. Reg. 13/2011, s. (a).]





Duty to consult




4

(1)


In the course of an assessment, at least one assessor must consult
with the persons specified in subsection (2) if




(a)

the assessor has reason to believe that they can provide accurate
information that is relevant to the assessment, and




(b)

the conditions applicable under that subsection are met.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1), the following persons are
specified:




(a)

the adult's spouse, if the spouse has been in contact with the adult
during the preceding 6 months and has no dispute with the adult;




(b)

available near relatives and friends of the adult if they




(i)

are at least 19 years of age,




(ii)

have been in contact with the adult during the preceding 12 months,
and




(iii)

have no dispute with the adult;




(c)

any person who has provided the adult with social services in the
preceding 6 months;




(d)

any person who has provided the adult with health care in the
preceding 6 months.




(3)

An assessor must, in writing, list the persons with whom the assessor
consulted under subsection (1) and record the extent to which they
were consulted.






Presence of adult's spouse, near relative or friend




5


Unless the adult objects, an assessor may allow the spouse, a near
relative or a friend of the adult to be present during the assessment
to help the assessor to communicate with the adult.






Notifying of outcome of assessment




6


On completing an assessment, the assessor or a member of the
assessment team must




(a)

advise the adult of the details and results of the assessment, and




(b)

provide to the adult's legal counsel, the designated agency that asked
for the assessment and, if present during the assessment, the adult's
spouse, near relative or friend




(i)

written information respecting the details and results of the
assessment, and




(ii)

a completed copy of the incapability assessment report in Form 1.

[en. B.C. Reg. 13/2011, s. (b).]



Form 1


Adult Guardianship Act


(Section 53 (5) of the Act)


INCAPABILITY ASSESSMENT REPORT

(This form to be completed by Authorized Assessors)

I/We, the assessors(s) named below, confirm that I/We have assessed
whether
..................................................................
[name of adult]
is incapable of deciding not to accept the services proposed in a
support and assistance plan prepared by
..................................................
[name of designated agency]
.


Our assessment is that the adult named above is
[tick the appropriate box]


[  ]
Capable
of deciding not to accept the services proposed in the support and
assistance plan.


[  ]
Not Capable
of deciding not to accept the services proposed in the support and
assistance plan.


The assessor(s) who conducted the assessment
[attach extra sheets if necessary]
are:


1
..........................................................................................................................................................
[name]
..........................................................................................................................................................
[address]
......................................................
[city]
...............................................
[province]
.......................
[postal code]


......................................................
[telephone number]
...............................................
[fax number]


..............................................................................
[signature]
...................................
[date]


2
..........................................................................................................................................................
[name]
..........................................................................................................................................................
[address]
......................................................
[city]
...............................................
[province]
.......................
[postal code]


......................................................
[telephone number]
...............................................
[fax number]


..............................................................................
[signature]
...................................
[date]


[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Adult Guardianship Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 6, section 63]



