







B.C. Reg. 338/96

O.C. 1373/96


Deposited December 2, 1996






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to Point in Time




Health Authorities Act



Amalgamation of Regional Health Boards and

Community Health Councils Regulation



[includes amendments up to B.C. Reg. 211/2015, November 28, 2016]






Definitions




1


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the

Health Authorities Act

;



"designated area"

means an area designated under section 4 (1) (b) or 6 (1) (b) of the
Act;


"new board"
means a board that is created by an amalgamation of 2 or more old
boards;



"new council"

means a council that is created by an amalgamation of 2 or more old
councils;


"old board"
means a board that is replaced by a new board;



"old council"

means a council that is replaced by




(a)

a new council, or




(b)

a board.

[am. B.C. Reg. 361/96, s. 1.]





Effect of amalgamation of 2 or more boards




2

(1)


If the designated areas of 2 or more old boards are completely
contained within the designated area of a new board, the old boards
are amalgamated as described in this section on the appointment of the
members of the new board by the minister under section 4 of the
Act.




(2)

On amalgamation under subsection (1)




(a)

all property and rights of the old boards pass to and vest in the new
board without further act or deed,




(b)

the new board is liable for all debts and obligations of the old
boards, and




(c)

a reference to one of the old boards in any commercial paper,
contract, lease, licence, permit or other instrument or document shall
be deemed to be a reference to the new board.




(3)

On amalgamation, for each liability of an old board immediately
preceding amalgamation under subsection (1)




(a)

the new board is liable in the same manner and to the same extent as
the old board was immediately preceding the date of the amalgamation,
and




(b)

the new board may sue or be sued in its own name or that of the old
board in any proceeding relating to the liability.




(4)

On amalgamation, for each property or right of an old board
immediately preceding amalgamation under subsection (1)




(a)

all persons are liable in the same manner and to the same extent to
the new board respecting the property or right as they were to the old
board immediately preceding the date of the amalgamation, and




(b)

the new board may sue or be sued in its own name or that of the old
board in any proceeding relating to the property or right.






Effect of amalgamation of 2 or more councils




3

(1)


If the designated areas of 2 or more old councils are completely
contained within the designated area of a new council, the old
councils are amalgamated as described in this section on the
appointment of the members of the new council by the minister under
section 6 of the Act.




(2)

On amalgamation under subsection (1)




(a)

all property and rights of the old councils pass to and vest in the
new council without further act or deed,




(b)

the new council is liable for all debts and obligations of the old
councils, and




(c)

a reference to one of the old councils in any commercial paper,
contract, lease, licence, permit or other instrument or document shall
be deemed to be a reference to the new council.




(3)

On amalgamation, for each liability of an old council immediately
preceding amalgamation under subsection (1)




(a)

the new council is liable in the same manner and to the same extent as
the old council was immediately preceding the date of the
amalgamation, and




(b)

the new council may sue or be sued in its own name or that of the old
council in any proceeding relating to the liability.




(4)

On amalgamation, for each property or right of an old council
immediately preceding amalgamation under subsection (1)




(a)

all persons are liable in the same manner and to the same extent to
the new council respecting the property or right as they were to the
old council immediately preceding the date of the amalgamation, and




(b)

the new council may sue or be sued in its own name or that of the old
council in any proceeding relating to the property or right.






Effect of amalgamation of a board and one or more councils




4

(1)


If the designated areas of one or more old councils are completely
contained within the designated area of a board and the minister
specifies that this section is to apply, the old councils are
amalgamated with the board as described in this section.




(2)

On amalgamation under subsection (1)




(a)

all property and rights of the old councils pass to and vest in the
board without further act or deed,




(b)

the board is liable for all debts and obligations of the old councils,
and




(c)

a reference to one of the old councils in any commercial paper,
contract, lease, licence, permit or other instrument or document shall
be deemed to be a reference to the board.




(3)

On amalgamation, for each liability of an old council immediately
preceding amalgamation under subsection (1)




(a)

the board is liable in the same manner and to the same extent as the
old council was immediately preceding the date of the amalgamation,
and




(b)

the board may sue or be sued in its own name or that of the old
council in any proceeding relating to the liability.




(4)

On amalgamation, for each property or right of an old council
immediately preceding amalgamation under subsection (1)




(a)

all persons are liable in the same manner and to the same extent to
the board respecting the property or right as they were to the old
council immediately preceding the date of the amalgamation, and




(b)

the board may sue or be sued in its own name or in the name of the old
council in any proceeding related to the property or right.

[en. B.C. Reg. 361/96, s. 2.]





Directions from the Senior Financial Officer




5

(1)


If an amalgamation occurs under section 2, 3 or 4, the new board, new
council or board, as the case may be, must comply with any direction
the Senior Financial Officer, Ministry of Health, may give respecting
the management or disposal, including disposal to the government for
or without compensation, of property, rights, debts or obligations the
new board, new council or board acquired by the amalgamation.




(2)

The Senior Financial Officer, Ministry of Health, may only give a
direction under subsection (1) if the Senior Financial Officer,
Ministry of Health, considers this to be necessary in the public
interest.

[en. B.C. Reg. 361/96, s. 2.]





Indemnification




6

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), for the purposes of section 16 of the Act,
a regional health board or community health council may indemnify a
former director of a designated corporation, on amalgamation of the
designated corporation with the regional health board or community
health council, on the same basis that applies to directors or former
directors of a regional health board or community health council under
sections 64 and 65 of the

Societies Act

.




(2)

A regional health board or community health council must not indemnify
a former director of a designated corporation under subsection (1)
unless the court, as defined in section 1 of the

Societies Act

, approves the indemnification.

[en. B.C. Reg. 211/2015, s. 3.]


[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Health Authorities Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 180, section 21]



