







B.C. Reg. 240/94

O.C. 937/94


Deposited July 15, 1994






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Farming and Fishing Industries Development Act


Cattle Industry Development Council Regulation


[includes amendments up to B.C. Reg. 154/2017, July 28, 2017]






Definitions




1


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the

Farming and Fishing Industries Development Act

;


"cattle"
means bulls, cows, steers, heifers or calves, whether alive or
immediately following slaughter;



"cattle with horns"

means cattle that are not naturally polled and have not been dehorned;


"council"
means the Cattle Industry Development Council continued as a council
under the Act;


"levy"
means a levy established under section 4 (1) of the Act by the council
and includes a levy of a class of levy so established.


[am. B.C. Regs. 505/95, s. 1; 376/2003, s. 1; 154/2017, s. (a).]






Producer levies




2


Every producer of cattle must pay to the council, in accordance with
section 3, the levy or levies that are applicable to that producer.

[en. B.C. Reg. 505/95, s. 2.]





Payment of levies




3

(1)


The applicable levy is immediately payable on the occurrence of each
of the following events:




(a)

the sale of cattle in British Columbia;




(b)

the slaughter of cattle in British Columbia.




(2)

The applicable levy, in addition to the levy under subsection (1), is
immediately payable on the occurrence of an event described in that
subsection if the cattle are cattle with horns.




(3)

The applicable levy is immediately payable on the shipment of cattle
with horns to a destination outside British Columbia.

[en. B.C. Reg. 376/2003, s. 2.]





Exemptions




4

(1)


The payment of a levy is not applicable to one or 2 head of cattle
slaughtered by a producer in a calendar year for personal consumption
by the producer or the producer's family.




(2)

If the applicable levies payable under section 2 in respect of a sale
described in section 3 (1) (a) or (2) have already been paid, no levy
is payable by any person in respect of the resale or slaughter of the
same cattle during the 7 day period immediately following the sale for
which those levies were paid.




(3)

The council may, by order, exempt a producer or a class of producers
from payment of a levy.


[am. B.C. Regs. 505/95, s. 3; 204/2002, s. (c); 376/2003, s. 3.]






Levy collection and remittance




5

(1)


Subject to subsections (2) and (3), one of the following persons must,
on the occurrence of an event under section 3, collect and remit
the levy to the council:




(a)

the producer of the cattle;




(b)

the distributor of the cattle, including a livestock dealer and a
public sale yard operator;




(c)

the first person who purchases the cattle from the producer, including
a livestock dealer, public sale yard operator and slaughterhouse
operator;




(d)

a supplier of goods or services to the producer, including a livestock
dealer, public sale yard operator and slaughterhouse operator.




(2)

If a levy is payable and no person other than the cattle producer
sells or slaughters the cattle, the producer must remit the levy to
the council on the producer's own behalf.




(3)

If a levy is payable and a person other than the cattle producer is
the first person who receives a payment arising out of the sale or
slaughter of the cattle, that person must collect and remit the levy
to the council.




(4)

A person, other than a cattle producer remitting on the producer's own
behalf, may retain a commission of 3% of the levy to be remitted.




(5)

All levies must be remitted to the council on the form required by the
council no later than 30 days after the last day of the month in which
an event occurs that is subject to the levy.

[am. B.C. Reg. 204/2002, ss. (d) and (e).]





Refunds




6

(1)


On receipt of




(a)

an application from a cattle producer in accordance with section 5 of
the Act, and




(b)

verification of the payment of a levy in respect of a sale or
slaughter described in section 3 (1) in the form of copies of bills of
sale or other information approved by the council,


the council must refund to the cattle producer the levy, less the
deduction applicable under subsection (2).




(2)

The deduction for the purposes of subsection (1) is the sum of




(a)

any commission paid to other persons under section 5 (4), and




(b)

on or before March 31, 2027, any payment that has been made by the
council from the levy to the National Beef Research, Market
Development and Promotion Agency.


[am. B.C. Regs. 505/95, s. 4; 146/99; 204/2002, s. (f); 376/2003, s.
4; 41/2007; 193/2011; 112/2017.]






Records




7

(1)


The council must retain all records respecting the administration of
levies for 5 years after the year in which levies are due and
payable.




(2)

Every person required to remit a levy must




(a)

keep, for a period of 5 years, a record of each levy remitted to the
council, and




(b)

provide to the council on request a record of all levies remitted in a
year.




(3) and (4)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 204/2002, s. (g).]

[am. B.C. Reg. 204/2002, s. (g).]





Forms and procedures




8


The council may establish the procedures and any forms or documents
needed to administer the fund.



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Farming and Fishing Industries Development Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 134, section 10]



