







B.C. Reg. 76/84

O.C. 518/84


Deposited March 19, 1984






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Wildlife Act


Closed Areas Regulation

[Last amended July 1, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 157/2022]





Interpretation




1


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the

Wildlife Act

;



"management unit"

or
"M.U."
has the same meaning as in the Management Unit Regulation, B.C. Reg.
64/96;



"non-toxic shot"

has the same meaning as in the Hunting Regulation, B.C. Reg. 190/84;


"shot"
means a cartridge manufactured so that it contains 8 or more roughly
spherical projectiles.


[en. B.C. Reg. 194/99, s. 1; am. B.C. Regs. 219/2000, s. 1; 72/2014,
App. 1, s. 1.]






No shooting, hunting or trapping areas




2


The areas set out in Schedule 1 are designated as no shooting areas
and, for the purposes of section 26 (1) (c) of the Act, there is no
open season for any wildlife species in those areas.






Seasonal no shooting, hunting or trapping areas




3


Section 2 applies to the areas set out in Schedule 2 during the period
set out for each area.






No shooting or hunting areas




4


The areas set out in Schedule 3 are designated as no shooting areas
and, for the purposes of section 26 (1) (c) of the Act, there is no
open season for any wildlife species in those areas except as
prescribed for the trapping of furbearing animals.






Seasonal no shooting or hunting areas




5


Section 4 applies to the areas set out in Schedule 4 during the period
set out for each area.






No shooting areas




6


The areas set out in Schedule 5 are designated as No Shooting areas.






Seasonal no shooting areas




7


Section 6 applies to the areas set out in Schedule 6 during the period
set out for each area.






No shooting areas — specified Crown land




7.1


The areas set out in Schedule 5.1 are designated as no shooting areas.

[en. B.C. Reg. 135/2017, App. 1, s. 1.]





No hunting areas




8


For the purposes of section 26 (1) (c) of the Act, there is no open
season for any wildlife species, except as prescribed for the trapping
of furbearing animals in the areas set out in Schedule 7.






No hunting or trapping areas




8.1


For the purposes of section 26 (1) (c) of the Act, there is no open
season for any wildlife species in the areas set out in Schedule 8.1.

[en. B.C. Reg. 151/2006, s. 1.]





Seasonal no hunting areas




9


Section 8 applies to the areas set out in Schedule 8 during the period
set out for each area.






Prohibited discharge areas under section 108 (2) (o) of the Act




10

(1)


A person commits an offence if the person discharges




(a)

a firearm in an area set out in Schedule 9 unless the person uses shot
only,




(b)

a firearm in an area set out in Schedule 10 during the period set out
for each area unless the person uses shot only,




(c)

a rifle in an area set out in Schedule 11, or




(d)

a firearm in an area set out in Schedule 13 unless the person uses
non-toxic shot only.




(2)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 170/2001, s. 1.]




(3)

Subsection (1) (a) does not apply to a person hunting with a
muzzle-loading firearm in the part of an area described in section 27,
29 or 30 of Schedule 9 that is west of Highway 1 or Highway 19.


[en. B.C. Reg. 219/2000, s. 2; am. B.C. Regs. 170/2001, s. 1;
157/2022, App. 3, s. 1.]






Repealed




10.1


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 157/2022, App. 3, s. 2.]






Repealed




11


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 211/93, s. 2.]






Road allowance no shooting or hunting areas




12

(1)


For the purposes of subsections (2) and (3) and of section 31 of the
Act,
"highway"
means every public road of two lanes or more that is maintained by the
ministry of the minister responsible for the administration of the

Transportation Act

, and includes all other public roads of two lanes or more within the
Province that are operated or maintained by the government of another
province or of a territory or by the government of Canada.




(2)

For the purpose of subsection (3),
"road allowance"
means the highway and that area on either side of the highway
including the shoulder and ditch to the lesser of




(a)

a distance of 15 m from




(i)

the midline of a road of less than three lanes, or




(ii)

the nearest edge of the paved surface of a highway with three lanes or
more, or




(b)

the boundary of private property as indicated by




(i)

a fence, or




(ii)

the limit of cultivated land.




(3)

The road allowance of any highway is designated as a no shooting area,
and for the purposes of section 26 (1) (c) of the Act there is no open
season for any wildlife species in that area.


[en. B.C. Reg. 211/93, s. 3; am. B.C. Regs. 205/94, s. 1; 221/2005, s.
1; 4/2010, s. 3.]




Schedule 1


No Shooting, Hunting or Trapping Areas


(Section 2)





Bergenham and Moberly




1


That portion of the Province, in the vicinity of Moberly Station,
Kootenay Land District, that is within the following boundaries:



Commencing at Moberly Station on the Canadian Pacific Railway; thence
easterly to the centre line of Highway 1, thence northwesterly along
the centre line of Highway 1 to the southerly boundary of Sublot 13 of
Section 21, Township 28, Range 22, W5M, Kootenay Land District; thence
westerly along the boundary to its intersection with the boundary of
Burges and James Gadsden Park; thence easterly and northerly along the
park boundary to the intersection with the south bank of the Blaeberry
River; thence westerly along the south bank of the Blaeberry River to
the east bank of the Columbia River; thence southerly along the east
bank of the Columbia River to a point due West of Moberly Station;
thence due East to the point of commencement, and including the
following areas in Township 28, Range 22, W5M, Kootenay Land District:
the Southwest quarter of Section 15; that portion of the Southeast
quarter of Section 16 lying east of the Canadian Pacific Railway right
of way; that portion of the North half of Section 16 lying east of the
Canadian Pacific Railway right of way; the Southeast quarter of
Section 21, excluding any of the area of the Canadian Pacific Railway
right of way as shown on Plan 633B.

[am. B.C. Reg. 151/2006, s. 2 (a).]





Columbia Lake and River




2


That portion of the Province, in the vicinity of Columbia Lake,
Kootenay Land District, that is within the following boundaries:



The portion of the Columbia River and Columbia Lake, below the high
water level and including all marshes, sand and gravel bars, located
in M.U.s 4-25 and 4-26 bounded at the south on Columbia Lake by a
straight line running between the southeast corner of Lot 450,
Kootenay Land District, and the mouth of Warspite Creek, and at the
north by the south side of the Highway 93/95 bridge over the Columbia
River.






Delkatla




3


That portion of the Province, in the vicinity of the Village of
Massett, that is within the following boundaries:


All land and water contained within District Lots 7, 7A and 11 (except
those portions included in Plans 946, 946A, 946B, 5574, 7450 and
7466), Queen Charlotte Land District.






George C. Reifel




4


That portion of the Province, in the vicinity of the Corporation of
Delta, that is within the following boundaries:



Commencing at the midpoint of the channel separating District Lot 470
(Albion Island) and District Lot 473 (Harlock Island), NWD; thence in
a southerly direction parallel to "D" cross dyke on District Lot 194
(Reifel Island) to a point in the middle of Ewen Slough to meet a line
drawn due North from the property line separating District Lot 192A
and the Department of National Defence property; thence from the
southeast corner of said property due West to the north bank of London
Slough; thence along the north bank of London Slough to the point
where the slough forks; thence due West to a point 2 508 m in an
east-west line from the sea dyke; thence on a bearing of 47 east of
north (true) for 1 125 m; thence on a bearing of 17° east of north
(true) for 894 m; thence on a bearing of 31° east of north (true) to
intersect the stone dyke extending west from the northwest corner of
Reifel Island; thence along the northern edge of the stone dyke to the
point of intersection of the Reifel property; thence easterly along
said property line to the point of commencement.






Lucy Island




5


That portion of the Province, in the vicinity of Langara Island, Queen
Charlotte Land District, that is within the following boundaries:



All of Lucy Island above the low water mark, designated as Lot 678,
Queen Charlotte Land District.






McDougall




6


That portion of the Province that is within the following boundaries:



Commencing at the intersection of the Sage Creek Forest access road
and the northern boundary of Lot 7335, Kootenay Land District, and
proceeding in an easterly direction along the access road to the
western boundary of Lot 7277; thence proceeding northeast in a
straight line for 50 m; thence proceeding due South to Sage Creek;
thence southwesterly along Sage Creek to the access road which joins
with the Sage Creek Forest road; thence proceeding easterly then
northerly along that access road to the point of commencement.






McGillivray Creek




7


That portion of the Province, in the vicinity of the City of
Chilliwack, that is within the following boundaries:



Commencing at the junction of the north bank of McGillivray Creek and
Little Sumas River; thence in a northerly and westerly direction
following the east and north banks of the Little Sumas River to the
south shoreline of the Fraser River; thence following the south
shoreline of the Fraser River in a northeasterly, southeasterly and
easterly direction to Miller Slough where it enters the Fraser River;
thence southerly following the west bank of Miller Slough to the south
boundary of the Provincial Dyke; thence southwesterly and southerly
along the south boundary of the dyke to the north bank of McGillivray
Creek; thence westerly along the north bank of McGillivray Creek to
the point of commencement.






Reidemann




8


That portion of the Province, in the vicinity of Alkali Lake, Lillooet
Land District, that is within the following boundaries:



All of Alkali Lake below the mean high water mark.






Robert W. Starratt




9


That portion of the Province, in the vicinity of the Village of
Valemount, that is within the following boundaries:



Lots 7127, 7128, 7129, 7130, 7132, 7133, 7134, 7139, 7140, 8351, 8352,
8353, 8357, 8358 and 8454, Cariboo Land District.






Serpentine River




10


That portion of the Province, in the vicinity of Mud Bay, NWD, that is
within the following boundaries:



The portion of MU 2-4 between the Serpentine River and Nicomekl River
and including Lots 450, Group 2 and 160, Group 2; fraction Northeast
quarter of Section 33, Township 1; Southeast quarter Section 4,
Township 2, NWD; the most northerly boundary of the area being the
north bank of the Serpentine River between Highway 499 and
Highway 99.






Repealed




11


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 190/96, s. 2.]






Tunkwa Lake




12


That portion of the Province, in the vicinity of Tunkwa Lake, Kootenay
Land District, that is within the following boundaries:



The largest island in Tunkwa Lake, being in Township 19, Range 21,
W6M, Kootenay Land District.






Wasa Slough




13


That portion of the Province, in the vicinity of Wasa Station,
Kootenay Land District, that is within the following boundaries:



Commencing at Wasa Station on the Canadian Pacific Railway, thence
southerly along the railway right of way to its intersection with the
south boundary of Lot 131, Kootenay Land District; thence easterly
along the boundary to the east side of Highway 93; thence northerly
along Highway 93 to the abandoned right of way of Highway 93; thence
northerly and westerly along the abandoned right of way to its
intersection with Highway 93; thence northerly along the east side of
Highway 93 to a point due East of Wasa Station; thence due West to the
point of commencement.






Ward Lake




14


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
Grand Forks within the following described boundaries:



Lot 30 of Lots 334, 1494 and 333, Similkameen Division of Yale
District, Plan 8423.

[am. B.C. Reg. 162/87, s. 1.]





Elizabeth Lake




15


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
the City of Cranbrook being District Lot 17, Parcel 1 of DD 5963-I and
Parcel A of District Lot 3912, Plan 4061 K.D.

[en. B.C. Reg. 224/92, s. 2.]





Repealed




16


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 405/95.]






Gwaii Haanas National Park Reserve




17


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 6-12 being
Moresby Island South of a line described as follows:



Commencing at the intersection of the 52° 50' 05" parallel of north
latitude with the 131° 20' 10" meridian of west longitude
(said intersection being a point in Hecate Strait approximately 10 km
northeasterly of Lost Islands); thence westerly in a straight line to
the ordinary high water mark at the most northeasterly point of Tangil
Peninsula at Porter Head at approximate latitude 52° 48' 35"
and approximate longitude 131° 39' 20" (said line passing
approximately 2 km north of Lost Islands); thence southwesterly in a
straight line to the most easterly peak on the Tangil Peninsula at
approximate latitude 52° 48' 10" and approximate longitude
131° 40' 39"; thence generally westerly along the watershed
boundary that separates those creeks that flow into Dana Inlet from
those that flow into Logan Inlet, to the peak at the intersection of
the northerly boundary of the watershed of Crescent Inlet with the
said watershed boundary that separates those creeks that flow into
Dana Inlet from those that flow into Logan Inlet (said peak being at
approximate latitude 52° 46' 37" and approximate longitude
131° 49' 09"); thence southwesterly in a straight line to
the northeast corner of Lot 663; thence southerly and westerly along
the easterly and southerly boundaries of said Lot 663 to the
intersection with the southerly boundary of the watershed of Crescent
Inlet; thence generally westerly along the southerly boundaries of the
watershed of said Crescent Inlet and of Tasu sound, being also a
portion of the southerly boundary of Tree Farm Licence 24 Block 2, to
a point on the O.H.W.M. at Tasu Head, said southerly boundaries
crossing in sequence the summits of Apex Mountain, Mount de la Touche,
Mount Oliver and Mount Moody; thence southwesterly in a straight line
to the intersection of the 52° 40' 36" parallel of north
latitude with the 132° 13' 16" meridian of west longitude
said intersection being a point in the Pacific Ocean approximately 10
km from said point on the O.H.W.M. at Tasu Head.


[en. B.C. Reg. 225/98, s. 1; am. B.C. Reg. 151/2006, s. 2 (b).]




Schedule 2


Seasonal No Shooting, Hunting or Trapping Areas


(Section 3)





Stum Lake




1


That portion of the Province, in the vicinity of Stum Lake, Cariboo
Land District, that is within the following boundaries:



All of Stum Lake below the high water mark, including all of the
islands, during the period March 1 to August 31 in a year.






Repealed




2-3


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 175/2010, App. 1, s. 1.]




Schedule 3


No Shooting or Hunting Areas


(Section 4)





Repealed




1


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 224/92, s. 3.]






Tranquille Wildlife Management Area




2


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
the City of Kamloops, KDYD, which is contained within the following
described boundaries:



Commencing at the northeast corner of Lot 341; thence southerly then
easterly following the fence line to the southeast corner of Lot 341
at the low water mark; thence westerly following the shoreline at the
low water mark to the southwest corner of the Tranquille Wildlife
Management Area on the lakeshore at low water mark; thence northerly
and easterly along the western and northern boundary of the Tranquille
Wildlife Management Area following the Tranquille and Red Lake road
right of way to the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 205/94, s. 2.]





Repealed




3


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 322/95, s. 2 (a).]






Sicamous




4


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in Kamloops Division
of Yale District, except organized territory, which is contained
within the following described boundaries:



All waters of Mara and Shuswap Lakes Iying east of a straight line
between Murdock and Semaphore Points and north of a line running
east-west through the mouth of Sicamous Creek.






Salmon Arm




5


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
the District of Salmon Arm, KDYD, except organized territory, which is
contained within the following described boundaries:



All the waters of Shuswap Lake Iying southeasterly of a straight line
commencing at the outer end of the Salmon Arm Wharf; thence
northeasterly to the white marker on the northern boundary of the
northwest quarter of Section 24, Township 20, Range 10.






Swan Lake




6


That portion of the Province of British Columbia, in the vicinity of
the Corporation of the City of Vernon, ODYD, which is contained within
the following described boundaries:



Those waters of Swan Lake to the maximum high water mark including all
marshland adjacent to Swan Lake.

[am. B.C. Regs. 109/85, s. 2 (a); 204/85, s. 1.]





Repealed




7


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 109/85, s. 2 (b).]






Repealed




8


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 385/85, s. (a).]






Highway 3




9







(a)

All areas within 0.4 km of the centerline of Highway 3 between the
easterly boundary of the Town of Hope to the westerly boundary of
Manning Provincial Park.




(b)

All areas within 0.4 km of the centerline of Highway 3 between the
easterly boundary of Manning Provincial Park and the westerly boundary
of the village of Princeton.

[en. B.C. Reg. 46/89, s. 1.]





Similkameen Mining Company Limited




10


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
the Smelter Lakes, SDYD, which is contained within the following
described boundaries:



Commencing at Whipsaw Bridge on Highway 3; thence downstream
approximately 1.6 km (1 mile) to the junction of Whipsaw Creek and the
Similkameen River; thence upstream on the west bank of the Similkameen
River for approximately 0.43 km (0.33 mile) to the chain post in the
southwest corner of Lot 2164(S), SDYD; thence easterly 455 m (1 501.5
feet) to the southeast corner of Lot 2164(S): thence S. 78° E to a
point approximately 2.8 kilometres (1.75 mile) to the northeast corner
of Lot 52(S); thence due East 545 metres (1 798.5 feet); thence
northeasterly approximately 790 metres (2 607 feet) to the Ferguson
Farm house fenceline; thence due East approximately 455 metres (1
501.5 feet) to Copper Mountain Road; thence southerly along said road
for approximately 4.24 kilometres (2.5 miles) to Cumont Camp; thence
due South approximately 2.2 kilometres (7 216 feet) to a point
approximately 4 kilometres (2.5 miles) due East of the southern
intersection of Highway 3 and the highway relocation; thence due West
to said relocation; thence northerly along Highway 3 relocation for
approximately 8 kilometres (5 miles) to point of commencement.






Repealed




11


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 225/98, s. 2 (a).]






Addington Marsh




12


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
Port Coquitlam which is contained within the following described
boundaries:



Commencing at the northern extremity of the dyke between Pitt River
and Addington marsh and proceeding due West to a point due North of
the end of the surveyed road allowance which divides Section 9 and
Section 10, Coquitlam District Municipality; thence proceeding due
South to the outside edge of the dyke; thence proceeding easterly,
northerly and northwesterly along the outside edge of the dyke to the
point of commencement.






Tabor Mountain




13


That portion of M.U. 7-9 which is contained within the following
described boundaries:



Commencing at the junction of the Willow River and Highway 16; thence
northerly along the Willow River to a point between its confluence
with Bowes Creek and its confluence with Spey Creek where the Willow
River comes closest to the Spey Creek logging access road; thence
proceeding westerly to Spey Creek logging access road; thence
proceeding in a general southwesterly direction along said road to its
junction with Highway 16; thence southeasterly along said highway to
the point of commencement.






Repealed




14


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 211/93, s. 4.]






Walter Clough Wildlife Management Area




15


That portion of M.U. 4-17 which is contained within the following
described lots:



Block 5, District Lot 381, Kootenay District, Plan 725, and Block 8,
District Lot 382, Kootenay District, Plan 722.






Argenta Marsh Wildlife Management Area




16


That portion of M.U. 4-19 which is contained within the following
described lot:



Lot A, District Lot 1884, Kootenay District, Plan 13962.






North Thormanby Island




17


That portion of M.U. 2-16 which is contained within the following
described boundary:



The mean low water mark of North Thormanby Island.

[am. B.C. Reg. 459/90, s. 1.]





Repealed




18


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 115/2018, App. 1, s. 1.]






The Province




19


That portion of British Columbia within 100 m of




(a)

a church, school building, school yard and playground,




(b)

a dwelling house,




(c)

a farm or ranch building that is occupied by persons or domestic
animals, and




(d)

a regional district park in Management Units 1-1 to 1-15 and 2-1 to
2-19.

[en. B.C. Reg. 194/99, s. 2.]





Repealed




20


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 205/94, s. 5.]






Repealed




21


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 215/86, s. 1.]






Pitt Wildlife Management Area




22

(1)


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 2-08
contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the midpoint of Grant Narrows on the midline of Pitt
River; thence in a general easterly direction along the midline of
Pitt River to a point due West of the Coast Guard navigation marker on
the natural boundary of Pitt River on the easterly shore thereof;
thence due East to the said Coast Guard navigation marker; thence in a
general southerly direction along the natural boundary of Pitt River
on the easterly shore thereof to the point of intersection with the
westerly Maple Ridge Municipal Boundary; thence southerly along the
westerly Maple Ridge Municipal Boundary for approximately 2 km to the
point of intersection with the Nature Dyke; thence in a general
westerly and northerly direction along the southerly and westerly
sides of the Nature Dyke to the point of intersection with the dyke
bordering Fox Reach on the easterly shore thereof; thence due North to
the point of intersection with the midline of Pitt River; thence in a
general easterly direction along the midline of Pitt River to the
point of commencement.




(2)

That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
Pitt Lake, NWD, which is contained within the following described
boundaries:



Commencing at the intersection of Koerner Road (also known as the X-Y
line) and Rannie Road; thence northerly along Rannie Road for a
distance of approximately 1.75 km; thence northeasterly along Rannie
Road for a distance of approximately 0.6 km to the intersection with
the dyke (completed in March 1978), which runs in a general southerly
direction; thence southerly along the east side of the dyke for a
distance of approximately 2.4 km to the intersection with Koerner
Road; thence westerly along Koerner Road to point of commencement.


[en. B.C. Reg. 189/84, s.1; am. B.C. Regs. 162/87, s. 2, 235/97, s.
1.]






Mt. Bergeron — Tumbler Ridge




23


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 7-21
contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the confluence of Murray River and Quality Creek and
proceeding northwesterly in a straight line to the summit of Mt.
Bergeron; thence turning 90° to the southwest and proceeding
southwesterly in a straight line to a point on the middle thread of
Bullmoose Creek; thence proceeding downstream along the middle thread
of Bullmoose Creek to its confluence with Wolverine River; thence
southerly to the southerly bank of Wolverine River; thence downstream
along the southerly bank of Wolverine River to the westerly bank of
Murray River; thence southerly along the westerly bank of Murray River
to a point opposite the southerly bank of Flatbed Creek; thence
easterly to the southerly bank of Flatbed Creek; thence upstream along
the southerly bank of Flatbed Creek to Highway 52; thence due North to
the Tumbler Ridge height of land; thence northwesterly along the top
of the ridge to a point due East of the southeast corner of Lot 304
Peace River District; thence due West to the easterly bank of Murray
River; thence northeasterly along the bank to the point of
commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 109/85, s. 2 (c).]





Kamloops




24


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in Kamloops Division
of Yale District, which is contained within the following described
boundaries:



Except organized territory, all waters of the North Thompson, Thompson
and South Thompson Rivers and land adjacent to the South Thompson
River, bounded on the north by the Canadian National Railway bridge at
Kamloops Junction and on the west by the Overlander Bridge and on the
east by the South Thompson River to the Pritchard Bridge and Pinantan
Road, including the uplands to the Trans Canada Highway on the south
and to East Shuswap Road on the north.

[en. B.C. Reg. 80/2012, App. 1, s. 1.]





Stone Mountain




25


That portion of M.U.s 7-50, 7-51 and 7-54 contained within the
described boundaries of Stone Mountain Provincial Park, within a
distance of one mile (1.6 kilometres) of the Alaska Highway.

[en. B.C. Reg. 476/2004, s. (a).]





Nekite River




26


That portion of the Province of British Columbia within 100 m of the
Department of Fisheries and Oceans (Canada) spawning channel on the
Nekite River, located approximately 10 km upstream from the Nekite
River estuary at Smith Inlet (approximate position 51° 27' N. Lat.,
127° 05' W. Long.).

[en. B.C. Reg. 263/86.]





Repealed




27


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 204/91, s. 1.]






North Kitsumkalum




28


That portion of Lot 5118, Range 5 Coast District, lying west of Kalum
Lake Road.

[en. B.C. Reg. 162/87, s. 4.]





Pacific Rim (Westcoast) National Park




29


That portion of British Columbia in M.U.s 1-3 and 1-8 which is
contained within the following described boundaries:



PART I


All those parcels or tracts of land, together with all that foreshore
and land covered by water, situated in Clayoquot District and lying
within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the northeast corner of Wya Indian Reserve No. 7;
thence westerly along the northerly boundary of Wya Indian Reserve No.
7 and continuing westerly along the westerly production of said
northerly boundary to the 20 metre isobath of the bed of the
Pacific Ocean as shown on Canadian Hydrographic Service (C.H.S.)
Chart 3603 and which indicates depths as being reduced to lowest
normal tide, which at Tofino is 2.1 metres below mean water
level; thence in a general northwesterly direction along said 20 metre
isobath to the westerly production of the northerly boundary of
District Lot 1360; thence easterly along said westerly production
of the northerly boundary of District Lot 1360 to the northwest
corner thereof, being a point on the natural boundary of Cox Bay, and
continuing easterly along the northerly boundaries of District Lots
1360 and 256 to the northwest corner of the Northeast 1/4 of District
Lot 256; thence southerly and easterly along the westerly and
southerly boundaries of said Northeast 1/4 of District Lot 256 to
the easterly boundary of District Lot 256; thence southerly along said
easterly boundary of District Lot 256 to the southeast corner thereof;
thence southerly in a straight line to the northwest corner of
District Lot 1966; thence southerly and easterly along the westerly
and southerly boundaries of District Lot 1966 and continuing
easterly along the easterly production of the southerly boundary of
said District Lot 1966 to the westerly boundary of District
Lot 242; thence northerly along the westerly boundaries of
District Lots 242, 243 and 250 to the northwest corner of said
District Lot 250, being a point on the natural boundary of an
unnamed arm of Browning Passage on the southerly shore thereon; thence
in a general easterly direction along said natural boundary of the
unnamed arm, being the northerly boundaries of District Lots 250,
249, 251 and 252 to the northeast corner of said District
Lot 252; thence in a general northwesterly direction along said
natural boundary of the unnamed arm and continuing in a general
easterly direction along the natural boundary of Browning Passage, on
the southerly shore thereof, to a point thereon, lying due West of the
most westerly point of District Lot 1431; thence in a straight
line, on a bearing of 45°, a distance of 221 metres, more or
less, to a point thereof, lying due West of the most northerly point
of Dinner Island, being part of District Lot 288; thence due East to
said northerly point of Dinner Island and continuing due East 101
metres; thence in a straight line, on a bearing of 135°, to a point on
the natural boundary of Browning Passage, on the southerly shore
thereof, said point lying 704 metres due North and
604 metres due East, more or less, from the most westerly
southwest corner of said District Lot 288; thence southeasterly
along said natural boundary of Browning Passage to a point thereon,
lying due West of the most westerly point of Indian Island; thence due
East to said most westerly point of Indian Island; thence in a general
northeasterly and southeasterly direction along the natural boundary
of said Indian Island to the most easterly point thereon; thence
southwesterly in a straight line to a point on the natural boundary of
Tofino Inlet, on the southerly shore thereof, said point being
480 metres, more or less, due East of the most southerly point of
District Lot 1680, being Indian Island Indian Reserve
No. 30; thence in a straight line, on a bearing of 135° to the
northerly boundary of the watershed of Grice Bay; thence in a general
southeasterly direction along said northerly boundary of the watershed
of Grice Bay to the westerly boundary of District Lot 1473;
thence southerly along the westerly boundaries of District Lots 1473
and 1472 to the southwest corner of said District Lot 1472; thence due
South to the northerly boundary of District Lot 494; thence easterly
and southerly along the northerly and easterly boundaries of District
Lots 494 and 487A to the northwest corner of District Lot 398; thence
easterly along the northerly boundaries of District Lots 398 and 403
to the northwest corner of District Lot 404; thence southerly and
easterly along the westerly and southerly boundaries of said District
Lot 404 to the northwest corner of District Lot 1385; thence easterly
and southerly along the northerly and easterly boundaries of said
District Lot 1385 and the West 1/2 of District Lot 1321 to the
southwest corner of the East 1/2 of District Lot 1321; thence easterly
along the southerly boundaries of District Lot 1321 and 1320 to the
northwest corner of the East 1/2 of District Lot 1314; thence
southerly and easterly along the westerly and southerly boundaries of
said East 1/2 of District Lot 1314 to the northwest corner of District
Lot 428; thence easterly and southerly along the northerly and
easterly boundaries of District Lot 428 to the southwest corner of
District Lot 1313; thence easterly along the southerly boundary of
said District Lot 1313 to the northeast corner of District Lot 442;
thence southerly along the easterly boundaries of District Lots 442,
441, 447, 461 and 464 to the northeast corner of Lot 1 of
District Lot 467, Plan 44818, on deposit in the Victoria Land Title
Office; thence southerly and westerly along the easterly and southerly
boundaries of said Lot 1, Plan 44818, to the northeast corner of
Wya Indian Reserve No. 7, being the point of commencement.

EXCEPT

FIRSTLY: the whole of Oo-oolth Indian Reserve No. 8, Quisitis Indian
Reserve No. 9, Kootowis Indian Reserve No. 4, Esowista Indian Reserve
No. 3 and Indian Island Indian Reserve No. 30


SECONDLY: the Tofino Airport, described as:




(a)

District Lots 167, 168, 169, 170 and 178, Clayoquot District;




(b)

those portions of District Lots 163, 164 and 165 lying to the north of
Tofino-Ucluelet Highway, Plan 1417RW, except thereout, from said
District Lot 163, Parcel A, Plan 32328, with both Plans on deposit in
the Victoria Land Title Office;




(c)

those portions of District Lots 113, 166 and 192 lying to the north
and east of Tofino-Ucluelet Highway, Plan 1417RW, on deposit in the
Victoria Land Title Office;




(d)

those portions of District Lots 193, 194, 195 and 196 lying to the
east of Plan 1371RW, on deposit in the Victoria Land Title Office.

PART II

All those parcels or tracts of land, together with all that foreshore
and land covered by water, situated in Barclay District and lying
within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the centre of Sail Rock, being a small islet west of
Benson Island, District Lot 43; thence due North 2.735 kilometres;
thence in a straight line, on a bearing of 38°, a distance of 8.046
kilometres; thence in a straight line, on a bearing of 115° 30', a
distance of 9.334 kilometres; thence in a straight line, on a bearing
of 217°, a distance.of 12.391 kilometres; thence in a straight line,
on a bearing of 296°, a distance of 6.598 kilometres, more or less, to
a point due South of the centre of Sail Rock; thence due North 1.931
kilometres, more or less, to the centre of Sail Rock, being the point
of commencement.


EXCEPT the whole of each of the following: Cleho Indian Reserve No. 6,
Keith Island Indian Reserve No. 7, Nettle Island Indian Reserve No. 5
and Omoah Indian Reserve No. 9.

PART III

Firstly: Lot A of Section 18, Plan 38380 on deposit in the Victoria
Land Title Office, and the West 1/2 of the North 1/2 of the North 1/2
of the Southeast 1/4 of said Section 18, all of Township 1, Barclay
District.


Secondly: Lot 1 of Sections 1 and 12, Plan 44813, Lot 1 of Section 1,
Plan 27489, and Lot A of Section 1, Plan 10982, all of Township 11,
Renfrew District, all plans on deposit in the Victoria Land Title
Office.


Thirdly: All those parcels or tracts of land, together with all that
foreshore and land covered by water, situated in Barclay and Renfrew
Districts, and lying within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the southwest corner of Oyees Indian Reserve No. 9,
Renfrew District, being a point on the natural boundary of Nitinat
Lake, on the southeasterly shore thereof; thence easterly along the
southerly boundary of said Oyees Indian Reserve No. 9 to the southeast
corner thereof; thence due South 1.006 kilometres; thence due East 783
metres; thence southerly in a straight line to the northwest corner of
Block A of District Lot 756; thence easterly along the northerly
boundary of said Block A of District Lot 756 to the northeast corner
thereof; thence southerly along the easterly boundaries of Blocks A
and B of District Lot 756 to Pipe Post No. 1, being a point on the
easterly boundary of the Reserve for Pacific Rim National Park as
shown on Plan 12 Tube 1410 on file with the Surveyor General Branch of
the Ministry of Water, Land and Air Protection, Victoria, a duplicate
of which is deposited as Plan 71572 in the Canada Lands Surveys
Records at Ottawa; thence in general westerly and southwesterly
directions along said easterly boundary of the Reserve for Pacific Rim
National Park as shown on said Plan 12 Tube 1410 to the northeast
corner of Section 56; thence southerly along the easterly boundary of
said Section 56 to the southeast corner thereof; thence in a straight
line, on a bearing of 190°, a distance of 609 metres; thence
southeasterly, in a straight line to the northeast corner of Section
50; thence southeasterly in a straight line to a point on the easterly
boundary of District Lot 727, said point being 340 metres due North
and 1.319 kilometres due West, more or less, from the northeast corner
of District Lot 730; thence due East to the natural boundary of
Carmanah Creek, on the right bank thereof; thence in a general
southerly direction along said natural boundary of Carmanah Creek to a
point 305 metres due South and 230 metres due East, more or less, from
the northeast corner of District Lot 729; thence southeasterly in a
straight line to the most northerly northeast corner of District Lot
732; thence southerly and easterly along the easterly and northerly
boundaries of said District Lot 732 to the northwest corner of
District Lot 734; thence easterly and southerly along the northerly
and easterly boundaries of said District Lot 734 to the northerly
boundary of District Lot 49; thence easterly along the northerly
boundaries of District Lots 49 and 736 to the northeast corner of said
District Lot 736; thence southerly along the easterly boundary of said
District Lot 736 to the northwest corner of District Lot 737; thence
easterly along the northerly boundary of said District Lot 737 to the
northeast corner thereof; thence in a straight line, on a bearing of
110°, a distance of 7.320 kilometres; thence due East 4.828
kilometres; thence due North 920 metres; thence northeasterly in a
straight line to the northwest corner of District Lot 708; thence
easterly along the northerly boundary of said District Lot 708 to the
northeast corner thereof; thence easterly in a straight line to the
southwest corner of the Fractional South 1/2 of Section 11, Township
11; thence northerly and easterly along the westerly and northerly
boundaries of said Fractional South 1/2 of Section 11 to a point on
the natural boundary of Gordon River, on the right bank thereof, and
shown as the most northerly northeast corner of Lot A of said Section
11, Township 11, Renfrew District, Plan 44812, on deposit in the
Victoria Land Title Office; thence in a general southerly direction
along said natural boundary of Gordon River and continuing southerly
along the natural boundary of San Juan River, on the right bank
thereof, to the natural boundary of Port San Juan, on the
northwesterly shore thereof; thence in a general southwesterly
direction along said natural boundary of Port San Juan to a point
lying 1.0 metres, more or less, due South of the P. Rock shown on Plan
7 Tube 1550, on file with the Surveyor General Branch of the Ministry
of Water, Land and Air Protection, Victoria, a duplicate of which is
deposited as Plan 73926, in the Canada Lands Surveys Records at
Ottawa, being a survey of part of the easterly boundary of the Reserve
for Pacific Rim National Park; thence southerly along said easterly
boundary of the Reserve for Pacific Rim National Park, as shown on
said Plan 7 Tube 1550 to the P. Rock at the most easterly point of
Owen Island, shown on said Plan 7 Tube 1550, and continuing southerly
along the southerly production of said easterly boundary to the 20
metre isobath of the bed of Juan de Fuca Strait, as shown on Canadian
Hydrographic Service (C.H.S.) Chart 3606 and which indicates depths as
being reduced to lowest normal tide, which at Port Renfrew is 2.0
metres below mean water level; thence in a general northwesterly
direction along said 20 metre isobath of the bed of Juan de Fuca
Strait and continuing in general northwesterly and northeasterly
directions along the 20 metre isobath of the bed of the Pacific Ocean
as shown on Canadian Hydrographic Service (C.H.S.) Chart 3602 and
which indicates depths as being reduced to lowest normal tide, which
at Bamfield is 2.0 metres below mean water level, to a point thereon,
lying due West of the northwest corner of District Lot 412, Barclay
District; thence due East to said northwest corner of District Lot
412, being a point on the natural boundary of Tapaltos Bay, on the
northerly shore thereof; thence easterly along the northerly
boundaries of District Lot 412, Fractional Section 7 and Fractional
Section 8 of Township 1, to the northwest corner of Anacla Indian
Reserve No. 12; thence southerly along the westerly boundary of Anacla
Indian Reserve No. 12 to the southwest corner thereof, being a point
on the natural boundary of Pachena River on the right bank thereof;
thence in a straight line, on a bearing of 100°, a distance of 183
metres, more or less, to the natural boundary of Pachena Bay, on the
northeasterly shore thereof, being a point on the southerly boundary
of said Anacla Indian Reserve No. 12; thence in a general
southeasterly direction along said natural boundary of Pachena Bay to
the southeast corner of said Anacla Indian Reserve No. 12; thence
northerly along the easterly boundary of Anacla Indian Reserve No. 12
to the northwest corner of Lot 1 of Section 9, Township 1, Plan 44819,
on deposit in the Victoria Land Title Office; thence easterly and
southerly along the northerly and easterly boundaries of said Lot 1,
Plan 44819, to the northwest corner of the Northeast 1/4 of Section 4,
Township 1; thence southerly along the westerly boundary of said
Northeast 1/4 of Section 4 to the southwest corner thereof; thence
southwesterly in a straight line to the northeast corner of District
Lot 659; thence southwesterly in a straight line to the northwest
corner of District Lot 273; thence southerly and easterly along the
westerly and southerly boundaries of said District Lot 273 to the
northeast corner of District Lot 275; thence southerly along the
easterly boundary of said District Lot 275 to the southeast corner
thereof; thence southeasterly in a straight line to the northwest
corner of District Lot 281; thence easterly along the northerly
boundaries of District Lots 281 and 282 to the Pipe Post set as a
quarter post on the northerly boundary of said District Lot 282;
thence in a straight line, on a bearing of 140°, a distance of 240
metres; thence in a straight line, on a bearing of 108°, a distance of
680 metres; thence in a straight line, on a bearing of 119°, a
distance of 1.670 kilometres; thence easterly in a straight line to
the northwest corner of District lot 288; thence southeasterly in a
straight line to the most northeasterly internal angle of District Lot
103; thence easterly along the northerly boundaries of District Lot
103, 60 and 59 to the northwesterly internal angle of District Lot 59;
thence easterly in a straight line to the northwest corner of District
Lot 527; thence easterly along the northerly boundary of District Lot
527, Barclay District, a distance of 650 metres, more or less, to the
northwesterly boundary of the watershed of Tsusiat Lake; thence in a
general northeasterly direction along the northwesterly boundaries of
the watersheds of Tsusiat and Hobiton Lakes to a point thereon, being
3.010 kilometres due North and 1.690 kilometres due West, more or
less, of the northwest corner of Homitan Indian Reserve No. 8; thence
due East 600 metres; thence in a straight line, on a bearing of 139°,
a distance of 1.100 kilometres; thence due South to the northwesterly
boundary of the watershed of Nitinat Lake; thence in a general
southwesterly direction along said northwesterly boundary of the
watershed of Nitinat Lake to a point thereon, being 260 metres due
North and 860 metres due West, more or less, of the northwest corner
of Homitan Indian Reserve No. 8; thence southeasterly in a straight
line to the intersection of the natural boundary of Hobiton Creek, on
the left bank thereof, with the westerly boundary of Homitan Indian
Reserve No. 8; thence southerly and easterly along the westerly and
southerly boundaries of Homitan Indian Reserve No. 8 to the southeast
corner thereof, being a point on the natural boundary of Nitinat Lake,
on the westerly shore thereof; thence in a general southwesterly
direction along said natural boundary of Nitinat Lake to a point
thereon, lying due North of the northwest corner of District Lot 769,
Renfrew District; thence southeasterly in a straight line to the most
northerly point of Block A of District Lot 746, Renfrew District,
being a point on the natural boundary of Nitinat Lake, on the
southerly shore thereof, thence in general easterly and northeasterly
directions along said natural boundary of Nitinat Lake, on the
southerly and southeasterly shores thereof, to the southwest corner of
Oyees Indian Reserve No. 9, being the point of commencement.

EXCEPT

Firstly: the whole of each of the following: Ahuk Indian Reserve No.
1, Carmanah Indian Reserve No. 6, Cheewat Indian Reserve No. 4A,
Claoose Indian Reserve No. 4, Clutus Indian Reserve No. 11, Cullite
Indian Reserve No. 3, Iktuksasuk Indian Reserve No. 7, Kich-ha Indian
Reserve No. 10, Masit Indian Reserve No. 13, Sarque Indian Reserve No.
5, Tsuquanah Indian Reserve No. 2, and Wyah Indian Reserve No. 3;


Secondly: Lot 2 of Block 10, Lots 1 and 2 of Block 16, Lot 8 of Block
18 and Lot 3 of Block 37, all of Section 57, Plan 1771, and Block 7 of
District Lot 527, Plan 2008, and Section 63, all in Renfrew District,
with both Plans on deposit in the Victoria Land Title Office.

PART IV

All those parcels or tracts of land, together with all that foreshore
and land covered by water, situated in Clayoquot District and lying
within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the northeast corner of Section 70, Alberni District
(situated in Clayoquot District), being a point on the natural
boundary of Kennedy Lake, on the southerly shore thereof; thence
southerly along the easterly boundary of said Section 70 to the
northwesterly limit of Alberni-Tofino Highway, as shown on Plan
1936RW, on deposit in the Victoria Land Title Office; thence in a
general southerly direction along the westerly limit of said
Alberni-Tofino Highway to the southeast corner of Lot 1 of Sections 69
And 70, Alberni District (situated in Clayoquot District), Plan 44820,
on deposit in the Victoria Land Title Office; thence westerly,
northerly, westerly and northerly along the southerly and westerly
boundaries of said Lot 1 to the northwest corner thereof, being a
point on the natural boundary of Kennedy Lake, on the southerly shore
thereof; thence due North 300 metres; thence easterly in a straight
line to a point 500 metres due North of the northeast corner of said
Section 70; thence due South to said northeast corner of Section 70,
being the point of commencement.


[en. B.C. Reg. 205/94, s. 6; am. B.C. Reg. 109/2002, s. 1.]






Garibaldi Park




30


All Crown land and land covered by water in Group l, New Westminster
Land District and Lillooet Land District described as:



Commencing at a point lying 4.023 km south and 201.1 m east of the
southeast corner of District Lot 5316, New Westminster District;
thence due South 3.25 km; thence due West 5.631 km; thence due South
4.827 km, more or less; thence due West to the southeast corner of
District Lot 7224, Group 1, New Westminster District; thence west
along the southerly boundary and the westerly production of the
southerly boundary of said Lot 7224 a distance of 2.575 km; thence due
South to a point, said point lying 1.65 km east and 1.85 km south of
the southeast corner of Lot 3113, Group l, New Westminster District;
thence in a northwesterly direction to the most easterly southeast
corner of Lot 6421, Group l, New Westminster District; thence
westerly, then southerly, then westerly along the easterly and
southerly boundaries of said Lot 6421 to a point of intersection with
the easterly boundary of Lot 3116, Group 1, New Westminster District;
thence southerly along the easterly boundary of said Lot 3116 to the
southeast corner and a point thereon; thence in a southerly direction
to a point, said point lying 1.65 km east and 4.445 km south of the
southeast corner of Lot 3113, Group 1, New Westminster District;
thence due South 7.230 km; thence east 4.827 km; thence due South
9.654 km; thence due West 980 m; thence due South 985 m; thence due
West 842 m, more or less, to a point due North of the northeast corner
of District Lot 7132, Group 1, New Westminster District; thence due
South 1.420 km, said point lying 500 m north of the northeast corner
of Lot 7132, Group 1, New Westminster District; thence due West 200 m;
thence due South 500 m to the northerly boundary of Lot 7132, Group 1,
New Westminster District; thence due West 500 m along the said
northerly boundary of Lot 7132 and the westerly prolongation thereof;
thence due South 480 m; thence in a southeasterly direction 860 m to a
point, said point lying 1.02 km south of the northeast corner of Lot
7132, Group 1, New Westminster District; thence due South 300 m;
thence due East 804 m; thence due South 342 m; thence due East 3.226
km; thence due North 1.811 km; thence due East 1.609 km; thence due
North 804 m; thence due East 1.609 km; thence due North 2 km; thence
due East 3.5 km; thence due South 4.827 km; thence due East 38.5 km;
thence due North 10.49 km; thence due West 5.705 km; thence north
2.415 km, more or less, to the southeast corner of District Lot 5533,
being Indian Reserve No. 12 "Glazier Creek", Group 1, New Westminster
District; thence east, and then in a general northerly then
southeasterly direction along the south, west and north boundaries of
said District Lot 5533 to the northeast corner thereof, said corner
lying on the natural boundary of Glacier Lake, on the easterly shore
thereof; thence in a general northerly, westerly then southerly
direction along the natural boundary of Glacier Lake on the easterly,
northerly and westerly shores thereof to a point thereon, said point
lying 5.02 km north and 935 m east of the southeast corner of
aforesaid District Lot 5533; thence due West 3.195 km; thence due
North 7.242 km; thence due West 6.437 km; thence due North 30.578 km,
more or less, to the 50 degree 14 minutes parallel of north latitude;
thence west 19.312 km along said parallel; thence due South 9.254 km;
thence due West 4.705 km; thence due South to a point of intersection
with the natural boundary of Blackcomb Creek, on the left bank
thereof; thence due South 50 m; thence in a general southerly
direction parallel to and 50 m perpendicularly distant from the left
bank of the natural boundary of Blackcomb Creek to a point lying due
East of the northeast corner of Lot 4750 as shown on NTS Map 92J/2;
thence due South 1.15 km; thence due East 100 m; thence due 325 m;
thence due East 130 m; thence due South 370 m; thence due East 220 m;
thence due South 1.3 km. thence due West 300 m; thence due South 700
m; thence due West 1.75 km; thence due South 1.5 km; thence due West
1.1 km; thence due South 545 m; thence due East 350 m; thence
southerly and westerly along the height of land to Flute Peak; thence
northwest in a straight line to Piccolo Peak; thence continuing
northwest along the production of said straight line 1.86 km; thence
west in a straight line to the point of commencement. EXCEPT Block A
of District Lot 7132. The whole containing 194,904 hectares, more or
less.

[en. B.C. Reg. 185/90, s. 2.]





Roderick Haig-Brown Recreation Area




31


That portion of M.U. 3-37, in the vicinity of Chase, contained within
the following described boundaries:



That portion of the Roderick Haig-Brown Recreation Area being south of
the Squilax-Anglement Road and downstream of the Adams River bridge.

[en. B.C. Reg. 162/87, s. 7.]





Repealed




32-34


Repealed. [B.C.Reg.204/91, s. 1.]






Repealed




35


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 185/90, s. 3.]






Conkle Lake Park




36


That portion of M.U. 8-12, in the vicinity of Rock Creek, contained
within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the northwest corner of Lot 18895, Similkameen Division,
Yale District, thence due East along the north boundary of said lot to
the northeast corner; thence due West a distance of 280 m; thence
south 27° E for a distance of 540 m; thence due West a distance of 3.1
km to the west boundary of Lot 18895, SDYD, thence northerly along
said boundary to the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 162/87, s. 12.]





Line Creek Operations




37


That portion of M.U. 4-23 in the vicinity of Sparwood outlined in red
on the attached Map No. 3-37/18.

[en. B.C. Reg. 239/2018, App. 1, s. 1.]





Okanagan Connector Highway




38


That portion of M.U.s 8-08, 3-12 and 8-06 in the Province of British
Columbia contained within the following described boundaries:



All areas within 0.4 km of either side of the centreline of the
Coquihalla Phase III (Okanagan Connector) Highway between its junction
with Highway 97 near Peachland and its junction with Highway 5 near
Aspen Grove.

[en. B.C. Reg. 167/88, s.1.]





Repealed




39


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 224/92, s. 3.]






Lazo Marsh




40


That portion of M.U. 1-06 in the vicinity of Comox which is contained
within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the southwest corner of Lot 245, Comox Land District;
thence northerly approximately 360 m to a point; thence westerly to
the point of intersection with the west boundary of D.L. 195; thence
northerly to the northwest corner of D.L. 195; thence easterly along
the northern boundary of said district lot to the northeast corner of
D.L. 195; thence southerly along the east boundary of D.L. 195
approximately 360 m to a point; thence easterly approximately 205 m to
a point; thence approximately 325 m at S 51° E to a point; thence
southerly approximately 145 m to the point of intersection with the
southerly boundary of Lot 245; thence easterly approximately 170 m at
S 53° E to a point; thence approximately 505 m at S 18° W to a point;
thence approximately 170 m at S 9° W to the point of intersection with
the southerly boundary of Lot 244; thence westerly approximately 270 m
to a point; thence approximately 150 m at N 24° E to a point; thence
northerly approximately 170 m to a point; thence approximately 495 m
at N 33° W to a point; thence westerly approximately 85 m to the point
of intersection with the westerly boundary of Lot 244; thence
northerly approximately 97 m to the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 235/97, s. 1.]





Repealed




41


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 176/89, s. 1.]






Cathedral Park




42


That portion of M.U. 8-03 in the Province of British Columbia
contained within the following described boundaries known locally as
the Core Area of Cathedral Park:



Commencing at the point of intersection of the left bank natural
boundary of an unamed creek, locally known as Lindsay Creek, and the
left bank natural boundary of Lakeview Creek at approximately UTM
North 5442423 metres and UTM East 707745 metres; thence due East to a
point lying 100 metres east of the right bank natural boundary of
Lakeview Creek; thence in a general southerly direction along a line
parallel to and 100 metres perpendicularly distant from said Lakeview
Creek natural boundary to a point lying due East of the most northerly
point on the natural boundary of Goat Lake; thence due West to the
natural boundary of Goat Lake; thence in a general southerly direction
along the easterly natural boundary of Goat Lake to the most southerly
point thereon; thence due South to the height of land separating the
watersheds of Lakeview Creek and Ewart Creek; thence in a general
westerly, northwesterly and northeasterly direction along a height of
land forming the southerly and westerly boundary of the watershed of
Lakeview Creek to a peak at approximately UTM North 5440408 metres and
UTM East 704283 metres, locally known as Scout Mountain; thence north
to the point of intersection with the natural boundary of Lindsay
Creek, on the left bank thereof at approximately UTM North 5441222
metres and UTM East 704283 metres; thence in a general northeasterly
direction along the said natural boundary to the point of commencement
based on the 1:20,000 TRIM Provincial Baseline Atlas.

[en. B.C. Reg. 151/2006, s. 3 (a).]





Road 248




43


That portion of the Province of British Columbia, in the vicinity of
Beatton Provincial Park, that is within 50 metres of either side of
the midline of Number 248 Road.

[en. B.C. Reg. 204/91, s. 2.]





Nitinat River




44


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U.s 1-3 and 1-4
that is contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at a point on the midline of Nitinat River at its
intersection with the westerly boundary of Indian Reserve #15; thence
in a general southerly direction along the midline of Nitinat River to
the natural boundary of Nitinat Lake on the northerly shore thereof
and including all intervening territory for 500 metres on either side
of the midline of Nitinat River.

[en. B.C. Reg. 204/91, s. 2.]





Cowichan Lake




45


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
Cowichan Lake, Cowichan Lake District, which is contained within the
following described boundaries:



Commencing on Highway 18 at the junction of the Youbou Road and Lake
Cowichan road; thence 100 m due North of the centre line of said
junction; thence following parallel to the Youbou section of Highway
18 to Youbou; thence continuing 100 m north and parallel of the main
private industrial road along the north shore of Cowichan Lake to the
most western point of the lake, thence following the main private
industrial road along the west and south shore of Cowichan Lake to
Honeymoon Bay; thence along Highway 18 from Honeymoon Bay to the
village of Lake Cowichan; thence continuing along the said highway to
the point of commencement, and including all of the intervening land
and waters except Indian reserve lands and organized territory.

[en. B.C. Reg. 80/2012, App. 1, s. 2.]





Trophy Mountain




46


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
Wells Gray Park and contained within the following described
boundaries:



Commencing at the outlet of an unnamed lake on Moul Creek, on the
southerly shore thereof, said outlet being 2 100 metres east and
4 650 metres south, more or less, of the southeast corner of Lot
2889; thence due South 500 metres; thence due East 1 300 metres
more or less to an intersection with the 1 450 metre contour of
the southerly slope of the Moul Creek watershed; thence due South 7
600 metres, more of less, to an intersection with the 1 800 metre
contour of a southwesterly slope of Trophy Mountain, said point of
intersection being 4 900 metres west and 2 500 metres south,
more or less, of the summit of Trophy Mountain; thence in a general
southeasterly direction along said 1 800 metre contour to the
northwesterly prolongation of an unnamed creek which is tributary to
the main stream of the unnamed northerly fork of Spahats Creek; thence
southeasterly along said northwesterly prolongation and continuing
south easterly along the aforementioned unnamed tributary, on the
right bank thereof, to the point of intersection of said right bank,
with the right bank of the main stream of the unnamed northerly fork
of Spahats Creek; thence due East 750 metres, more or less, to the
point of intersection with the 1 750 metre contour of the easterly
slope of the watershed of the aforementioned unnamed northerly fork of
Spahats Creek; thence northerly along said 1 750 metre contour to a
point 2 300 metres west and 3 750 metres south, more or less, of the
summit of Trophy Mountain; thence due East 6 800 metres, more or
less, to a point 4 400 metres east and 3 750 metres south, more or
less, of the summit of Trophy Mountain; thence due North 3 300 metres,
more or less, to an intersection with the 1 750 metre contour of a
southerly boundary of the watershed of the unnamed creek flowing in an
easterly direction into Raft River; thence following said 1 750
metre contour in a general westerly and northeasterly direction to a
point 4 400 metres east and 3 650 metres north, more or less, of
the summit of Trophy Mountain; thence due West 2 000 metres, more or
less, to the point of intersection with the natural boundary of Moul
Creek, on the left bank thereof; thence in a general westerly
direction along said left bank of Moul Creek, the natural boundary of
Moul Lake, on the southerly shore thereof and continuing along the
aforementioned left bank of Moul Creek, and the natural boundary of an
unnamed lake on Moul Creek, on the southerly shore thereof to the
outlet of said unnamed lake, being the point of commencement and
containing 6 934 hectares, more or less.

[en. B.C. Reg. 204/91, s. 2.]





Saturna Island East End




47


That portion of Saturna Island in M.U. 1-01 which lies easterly of the
west side of Fiddler Road and the northerly and southerly
prolongations thereof and is contained within the mean low water mark
of that portion of Saturna Island.

[en. B.C. Reg. 224/92, s. 3.]





Radar Lake




48


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in Section 14,
Township 77, Range 16 west of the 6th Meridian, Peace River Land
District, in the vicinity of the City of Dawson Creek, contained
within 200 metres above the high water mark around Radar Lake.

[en. B.C. Reg. 224/92, s. 3.]





Kinuseo Falls




49


That portion of M.U. 7-21 in the Province of British Columbia
contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at a point at 914.4 m elevation approximately 5 340 m at S
88° W from the southeast corner of Lot 1476, Peace River Land
District; thence in a general southerly, then westerly, then
southeasterly direction at 914.4 m elevation to a point approximately
8 450 m at S 66° W from the southeast corner of Lot 1476; thence
westerly in a straight line to a point 402 m due West of the natural
boundary of Murray River on the left bank thereof; thence in a general
northerly direction at 402 m west of the natural boundary of Murray
River on the left bank thereof to a point due East of the southeast
corner of Lot 817; thence N 8° W approximately 2 500 m; thence
approximately N 37° E to the point of intersection with the natural
boundary of Murray River on the right bank thereof; thence due East to
a point at 884 m elevation; thence in a general southeasterly
direction at 884 m elevation to a point due West of the point of
commencement; thence easterly in a straight line to the point of
commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 224/92, s. 3.]





Ucluelet




50


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 1-8 that is
contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the southernmost point on Amphitrite Point on the
natural boundary of Ucluth Peninsula; thence more or less east in a
straight line to the most southerly point on the natural boundary of
Ucluelet Inlet on an unnamed peninsula directly south of Indian
Reserve #5; thence in a generally northwesterly, southwesterly and
southeasterly direction along the natural boundary of Ucluelet Inlet
along the mean high water mark to the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 211/93, s. 6.]





Repealed




51


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 219/2000, s. 3.]






JeweI Lake




52


That portion of M.U. 8-14 in the Province of British Columbia that is
contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at a point 25 metres west of the point of intersection of
the midline of Jewel Lake Road and the northwest corner of D.L. 1875s,
Similkameen Division, Yale Land District; thence in a general
northeasterly direction following 25 metres west of the midline of
Jewel Lake Road to the point of intersection with the westerly
boundary of Jewel Lake Provincial Park; thence in a general northerly,
easterly, southerly then westerly direction along the westerly,
northerly, easterly and southerly boundaries of Jewel Lake Provincial
Park to a point 100 metres east of the natural boundary of Jewel Lake
on the easterly shore thereof; thence in a general southwesterly
direction following 100 metres east from the natural boundary of Jewel
Lake on the easterly shore thereof to the point of intersection with
the boundary of Jewel Lake meadow; thence more or less southwesterly
following the eastern boundary of Jewel Lake meadow to a point of
intersection with the northern boundary of D.L. 1875s; thence westerly
along said boundary to the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 211/93, s. 6.]





De Courcey Island




53


That portion of M.U. 1-1 in the Strait of Georgia which is contained
within the following described boundary:


The mean low water mark of De Courcey Island.


[en. B.C. Reg. 205/94, s. 7; am. B.C. Reg. 190/96, s. 3 (b).]






Centennial Beach




54


That portion of M.U. 2-04 in the municipality of Delta from a point at
the mean high water mark in Boundary Bay East along the International
Boundary between Canada and the United States of America to a concrete
marker establishing the International Boundary; thence northwesterly
to the mean high water mark in the vicinity of the point where 64
Street, municipality of Delta, meets the dyke bordering Boundary Bay;
thence southerly, southwesterly and southeasterly along the mean high
water mark to the point of commencement.


[en. B.C. Reg. 205/94, s. 7; am. B.C. Reg. 235/97, s. 1.]






Sun Peaks Resort




55


That portion of M.U. 3-27 in the vicinity of Kamloops, KDYD, which is
contained within the following described boundaries:


All land and waters within 400 metres of any ski lift, run, facility
or development of the Sun Peaks Resort.

[en. B.C. Reg. 322/95, s. 2 (b).]





Radium




56


Those portions of the Province of British Columbia in M.U.s 4-25 and
4-35 that are contained within the following described boundaries:



Firstly, District Lots 9577 and 10112,


Secondly, District Lots 5111, 10725 and 10726 and

Thirdly, that area described as follows:


Commencing at the southwest corner of District Lot 9009; thence
northerly along the western boundary of said Lot to the point of
intersection with the northern boundary of the right of way of the
B.C. Hydro power line; thence southwesterly along said right of way
boundary to the point of intersection with the eastern boundary of the
right of way of the Canadian Pacific Railway; thence in a general
northerly direction along said right of way boundary to the point of
intersection with the southern boundary of District Lot 2580; thence
easterly along said southern boundary, and northerly along the eastern
boundary of said Lot, to the point of intersection with the southern
boundary of District Lot 10113; thence easterly along said southern
boundary and northerly along the eastern boundary of said Lot to the
point of intersection with the northern boundary of District Lot
9565A; thence easterly along said northern boundary and along the
northern boundary of District Lot 9560 to the northeast corner of
District Lot 9560; thence southerly along the eastern boundaries of
District Lots 9560, 9010 and 9567 to the northwest corner of District
Lot 8207; thence easterly, southerly and westerly along the northern,
eastern and southern boundaries of said Lot to the southeast corner of
District Lot 9009; thence westerly to the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 190/96, s. 3 (c).]





Edgewater




57


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 4-35 which is
contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the point of intersection of the westerly boundary of
Highway 95 right of way and the southerly boundary of the Edgewater
South Approach Road right of way, Kootenay Land District; thence in a
general westerly and northerly direction along the southern and
western boundary of the Edgewater South Approach Road right of way to
its intersection with the northerly boundary of District Lot 348, Plan
1954, Parcel B; thence westerly following said boundary to the
easterly boundary of the Canadian Pacific Railway right of way; thence
northwesterly following the easterly boundary of the Canadian Pacific
Railway right of way to its intersection with the southerly boundary
of Lot 353: thence easterly following the southern boundary of Lot 353
to the westerly boundary of the Bench Road right of way; thence
northerly and easterly following said boundary to its intersection
with the westerly boundary of the McCauley Street right of way; thence
northeasterly following the westerly boundary of said right of way to
its intersection with the westerly boundary of the Highway 95 right of
way; thence southeasterly following the westerly boundary of Highway
95 to the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 151/2006, s. 3 (b).]





Mudge Island




58


That portion of M.U. 1-1 in the Strait of Georgia which is contained
within the following described boundary:



The mean low water mark of Mudge Island.

[en. B.C. Reg. 194/99, s. 3.]





Fording River/Greenhills Operations




59


That portion of M.U. 4-23 in the vicinity of Elkford outlined in red
on the attached Map No. 3-59/18.


[en. B.C. Reg. 95/2015, App. 3, s. 1; am. B.C. Reg. 239/2018, App. 1,
s. 2.]






East Moberly Lake 169




60


Those portions of M.U.s 7-31 and 7-32 within 400 metres of the East
Moberly Lake 169 Indian Reserve.

[en. B.C. Reg. 130/2016, App. 1, s. 1.]





Elkview Operations




61


That portion of M.U. 4-23 in the vicinity of Sparwood outlined in red
on the attached Map No. 3-61/18.

[en. B.C. Reg. 239/2018, App. 1, s. 3.]





Coal Mountain Operations




62


That portion of M.U. 4-23 in the vicinity of Sparwood outlined in red
on the attached Map No. 3-62/18.

[en. B.C. Reg. 239/2018, App. 1, s. 3.]





Sea to Sky Highway




63


That portion of the Province of British Columbia within
400 metres of the road allowance of Highway 99 between the
northern boundary of the District of Squamish and the southern
boundary of the Resort Municipality of Whistler.

[en. B.C. Reg. 169/2020, App. 1, s. 1.]





Callaghan Road




64


That portion of the Province of British Columbia within
400 metres of the road allowance of Callaghan Road between the
northwest corner of the Resort Municipality of Whistler and the gate
at Whistler Olympic Park.

[en. B.C. Reg. 169/2020, App. 1, s. 1.]





Kalamalka Lake Park




65


That portion of M.U. 8-22 outlined in red on the attached map 'No
Shooting or Hunting Area Kalamalka Lake Park'.

[en. B.C. Reg. 157/2022, App. 3, s. 3.]





Marble Canyon Park




66


That portion of M.U. 3-17 outlined in red on the attached map 'No
Shooting or Hunting Area Marble Canyon Park'.

[en. B.C. Reg. 157/2022, App. 3, s. 3.]



Schedule 4


Seasonal No Shooting or Hunting Areas


(Section 5)





Repealed




1


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 205/94, s. 8.]






Repealed




2


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 167/88, s. 2.]






Pitt Wildlife Management Area




3

(1)


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 235/97, s. 2.]




(2)

That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
Pitt Lake, NWD, within the following described boundaries:


Commencing at the intersection of Koerner Road and Rannie Road and
proceeding due West to the easterly Coquitlam District Municipal
Boundary; thence proceeding northerly and northeasterly along the
boundary to the northern boundary of the Coquitlam District
Municipality; thence proceeding southeasterly to the point where the
dyke bordering the eastern side of Fox Reach intersects a dyke running
southeasterly from the western end of Grant Narrows; thence proceeding
southeasterly, easterly and northeasterly along the southerly and
westerly sides of the dyke to the western Maple Ridge District
Municipal Boundary; thence proceeding southerly and westerly along the
boundary to Koerner Road (also known as the X-Y line); thence
proceeding west along Koerner Road to a dyke (completed March 1978)
running generally north and northwest from Koerner Road to Rannie
Road; thence proceeding north and northwest along the easterly side of
the dyke to Rannie Road; thence proceeding southwesterly and southerly
along Rannie Road to the point of commencement for the period March 11
to August 31 annually and on Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays
during the period September 1 to March 10 annually.


[en. B.C. Reg. 46/89, s. 4; am. B.C. Regs. 190/96, s. 4; 235/97, s.
2.]






Repealed




4


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 225/98, s. 3 (a).]






Naikoon Park




5


That portion of M.U. 6-13 in the Province of British Columbia
contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at a point on the northerly boundary of lot 59 Queen
Charlotte Land District, said point lying 50 m due East of the natural
boundary of Tlell River on the right bank thereof; thence easterly
along the northerly boundary of Lot 59 to the point of intersection
with the natural boundary of Hecate Strait; thence easterly 201 m in a
straight line to a point in Hecate Strait; thence in a general
northerly direction along a line 201 m east of the natural boundary of
Hecate Strait to a point due East of the most northerly point of Lot
1350A; thence westerly in a straight line to the point; thence in a
general southerly direction along a line 50 m easterly of the natural
boundary of Tlell River on the right bank thereof to the point of
intersection with the northerly boundary of Lot 1350; thence easterly
in a straight line to the northeast corner of Lot 1350; thence
southerly in a straight line to the southeast corner of Lot 1350;
thence westerly along the southerly boundary of Lot 1350 to a point 50
m due East of the natural boundary of Tlell River on the right bank
thereof; thence in a general southerly direction along a line 50 m
easterly of the natural boundary of Tlell River on the right bank
thereof to the point of commencement during the period April 1 to
September 14.

[en. B.C. Reg. 224/92, s. 4.]





Kennedy Siding




6


That portion of M.U. 7-23 in the Province of British Columbia
contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the railroad bridge on the BCR MacKenzie branch line at
its crossing of the Missinchinka River; thence following the
Missinchinka River upstream approximately 9 km to an unnamed stream
running westerly into the Missinchinka River; thence following the
unnamed creek upstream to the crossing of the BCR line; thence
southerly following the BCR to the junction of the BCR branch line to
MacKenzie; thence following the spur line to the point of commencement
during the period from September 1 to March 31 inclusive.


[en. B.C. Reg. 225/98, s. 3 (b); am. B.C. Regs. 194/99, s. 4;
219/2000, s. 4; 130/2016, App. 1, s. 2.]




Schedule 5


No Shooting Areas


(Section 6)





Repealed




1


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 162/87, s. 13.]






University of British Columbia Endowment Lands




2


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
the City of Vancouver, NWD, which is contained within the following
described boundaries:


All lands within District Lot 140, Group 1, NWD (except thereout Lots
3044, 4804, 4805 and 6494, Group, NWD, and except thereout those
portions within the City of Vancouver). The above description includes
Lots 3045, 4806, 4807 and 7184, Group, NWD, formerly portions of said
Lot 140.






Ganges




3


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in Ganges Harbour,
Cowichan District, except organized territory, which is contained
within the following described boundaries:


All of that area known as Ganges Harbour below the high water mark
lying north of a straight line running from Scott Point due West to
the nearest point on the west shoreline of said harbour.






McQueen, Griffin and Isobel Lakes




4


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 3-28 in the
vicinity of the City of Kamloops, KDYD, which is contained within the
following described boundaries:


All land and waters within 1 km of the mean high water mark of
McQueen, Griffin and Isobel Lakes.

[en. B.C. Reg. 205/94, s. 9.]





Buntzen Lake




5


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in New Westminster
District which is contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the southwest corner of Lot 226, Group 1, NWD, being a
point on the high water mark of the waters of Port Moody, on the
northerly shore thereof; thence northerly along the westerly boundary
of said Lot 226 to the northwest corner thereof; thence easterly along
the northerly boundaries of Lots 226 and 227 to the northeast corner
of said Lot 227; thence southerly along the easterly boundary of said
Lot 227 to the northerly boundary of Lot 350; thence easterly along
said northerly boundary of Lot 350 to the northeast corner thereof;
thence easterly, northerly and easterly along the northerly, westerly
and northerly boundaries of Lot 348 to the northeast corner thereof;
thence northerly along the easterly boundaries of Sections 16, 21, 28
and 33, Township 39, WCM, to the northeast corner of said Section 33;
and from the northeast corner of said Section 33 in a straight line to
the northeast corner of the District Municipality of North Vancouver;
thence in a general southerly and easterly direction along the middle
lines of Indian Arm, Burrard Inlet, and the waters of Port Moody to a
point 365 m (1 200 feet) due North of the intersection of the
centreline of North Road with the high water mark of the waters of
Port Moody, on the southerly shore thereof; thence due East to a point
due South of the aforesaid southwest corner of Lot 226; thence North
to said southeast corner of Lot 226, being point of commencement,
except thereout any lands which may lie within the corporate limits of
any city, town, village or district municipality or any lands which
may be hereinafter incorporated therein.






Skookumchuck Pulp Mill




6


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in Kootenay District
which is contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the Skookumchuck Kootenay River bridge on Highway 95;
thence southerly along Highway 95 to the junction of a roadway named
Farstad Way; thence westerly and northerly along Farstad Way to
Skookumchuck River road; thence northerly along said road to the
Skookumchuck River bridge; thence downstream along the Skookumchuck
River to its confluence with the Kootenay River; thence downstream
along the Kootenay River high water mark to point of commencement.






Englishman River




7


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
the Village of Parksville, Nanoose Land District, which is contained
within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the northeast corner of Lot 1, Nanoose Land District,
being a point on the high water mark on the Strait of Georgia; thence
southerly along the easterly boundaries of Lots 1, 96 and 129 to the
point of intersection, on the easterly boundary of said Lot 129, with
the centreline of Island Highway 19, Registered Plan 812 R/W; thence
in a generally westerly direction along said centreline to the point
of intersection with the centreline of the Englishman River; thence in
a generally northerly direction along the centreline of the main
channel of said Englishman River to a point due West of the most
westerly part of Lot 9, Plan 19158, Lot 181; thence due East to a
point on the high water mark of the Strait of Georgia, being the
westerly extremity of said Lot 9, Plan 19158; thence in a generally
easterly direction along the high water mark of the Strait of Georgia,
being the northerly boundary of Lot 181 (all lots herein above
mentioned, beginning with Lot 1, being in the Nanoose District) to the
northeast corner of Lot 1, Nanoose District, being point of
commencement.






Todagin Mountain




8


That portion of the Province of British Columbia on the Klastine
Plateau, Cassiar District, which is contained within the following
described boundaries:



Commencing at the junction of Stewart-Cassiar Highway and Coyote
Creek; thence easterly along the north bank of Coyote Creek to Ealue
Lake; thence along the north side of Ealue Lake to its most northerly
point; thence in an easterly direction to Klappan River; thence in a
southerly direction along the east bank of Klappan River to Tsanadto
Creek; thence in a southwesterly direction to Kluea Lake; thence
southwesterly along the south side of Kluea Lake and connecting creek
to Todagin Lake; thence along the south side of Todagin Lake to
Todagin Creek; thence west along the south bank of Todagin Creek to
the intersection with Stewart-Cassiar Highway; thence north along
Stewart-Cassiar Highway to point of commencement.






Logan Lake




9


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
Logan Lake, KDYD, which is contained within the following described
boundaries:



Those waters of Logan Lake to the maximum high water mark.






Repealed




10


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 109/85, s. 3 (a).]






Bowen Island




11


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in Howe Sound, NWD,
which is contained within the following described boundaries:


All that portion of land, including the foreshore above the low water
mark of Bowen Island, situate and lying at the entrance of Howe Sound,
NWD.






Repealed




12


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 95/2015, App. 3, s. 2.]






Repealed




13


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 224/92, s. 6.]






Gibralter Mines




14


Commencing at the southeast corner of Lot 9170, Cariboo District;
thence north to the northeast corner of said Lot 9170; thence west to
the northwest corner of said Lot 9170; thence northerly to the
northeast corner of Lot 9497; thence west to the northwest corner of
said Lot 9497; thence northwesterly to the southwest corner of Lot
6166; thence east to the southeast corner of said Lot 6166; thence
north to the northeast corner of said Lot 6166; thence east 7.6 km
(4.7 miles); thence south 8.7 km (5.4 miles); thence west 2.0 km (1.2
miles); thence south 3.5 km (2.2 miles); thence west to the point of
commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 221/2005, s. 3 (b).]





Williams Lake




15


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
the Town of Williams Lake, Cariboo District, which is contained within
the following described boundaries:


Those waters of Williams Lake to the maximum high water mark between
the eastern Williams Lake town boundary and the western boundary of
Indian Reserve 1 (Sugarcane).






Provincial Gaol Camp No. 1




16


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the Chilliwack
River Valley, Yale District, which is contained within the following
described boundaries:



Commencing at the point 1.6 km (1 mile) west of the Provincial Gaol
Service Camp No. 1 and extending for a distance of 800 m (0.5
mile) north and south of Chilliwack River Road East to Chilliwack
Lake, Yale District. The western boundary is indicated by signs
erected by the Ministry of the Attorney General.






Ocean Falls




17


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in Range 3, Coast
District, which is contained within the following described
boundaries:



Commencing at the southwest corner of Lot 1153, Range 3, Coast
District; thence northerly along said lot to the south shore of Ikt
Lake; thence northwesterly along the said shore of said lake to
unnamed river entering Ikt Lake at its most northerly point; thence
northerly and northwesterly up the west bank of unnamed river to the
northwest corner of Lot 209; thence due East of the northeast corner
of said lot; thence due East for 3.2 km (2 miles) to the height of
land between the Martin River drainage and Link Lake; thence
southerly, easterly and southerly following the height of land through
Mount Caro Marion to the west shore of Link Lake, approximately 400 m
(0.25 mile) from the northeast corner of Lot 1170; thence in a
southerly direction, including unnamed bay to the southeast corner of
Lot 1151; thence westerly in a straight line to the southwest corner
of Lot 1176; thence westerly in a straight line across Cousins Inlet
to point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 224/92, s. 5.]





Kumdis Bay




18


That portion of M.U. 6-13 on the east side of Masset Inlet, Queen
Charlotte District, contained within the following described
boundaries:



Commencing at the intersection of the southern shore of Kumdis Bay and
the eastern boundary of Lot 414; thence in a southerly direction to
the southeast corner of Lot 414; thence westerly along the southern
boundary of Lot 414 to the eastern boundary of Lot 746; thence
proceeding south along the eastern boundary of Lot 746 to the southern
boundary of Lot 746; thence proceeding west along the southern
boundary of Lot 746 to the eastern boundary of block B of Lot 747;
thence proceeding south along the eastern boundary of block B to the
southern boundary of block B; thence proceeding west along the
southern boundary of block B to the western boundary of block B;
thence proceeding south along the eastern boundary of Lot 3040 to the
southern boundary of Lot 3040; thence proceeding due West to the high
water mark of Masset Inlet; thence proceeding in a northwesterly
direction, perpendicular to the shoreline for a distance of 1 km;
thence proceeding northeasterly, remaining 1 km from the high water
mark of Masset Inlet, parallel to the shoreline to a point due North
of the most northerly point of Lot 420; thence due South to the most
northerly point of Lot 420; thence due West 100 metres; thence
proceeding southeasterly, remaining 100 metres west of the high water
mark of Kumdis Bay, to the intersection with Highway 16 in Lot 414;
thence easterly along Highway 16, to the east end of the bridge that
crosses Kumdis Creek, to a point at the mean high water mark, on the
east shore of Kumdis Creek; thence following the mean high water mark
of Kumdis Creek and Kumdis Bay northeasterly to the point of
commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 194/99, s. 5 (a).]





Kathlyn Lake




19


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
Kathlyn Lake, Range 5, Coast District, which is contained within the
following described boundaries:


Those waters of Kathlyn Lake to the maximum high water mark situate
and lying within portions of Lots 10, 11, 14 and 15 of Township 1A,
Range 5, Coast District.






Charlie Lake




20


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
Charlie Lake, Peace River District, which is contained within the
following described boundaries:


Namely, the waters of Charlie Lake and that portion of Stoddard Creek
between Charlie Lake and Road 114 and all lands within 91 m (100
yards) of the mean high water level of said lake and creek.






Cowichan Bay




21


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 1-04 in the
vicinity of Cowichan Bay, Cowichan District, which is contained within
the following described boundaries:



Commencing on the northern edge of the right of way of Cowichan Bay
Road opposite the southeastern point of Lot 9, Section 8, Range 3,
Plan 8313, Cowichan Bay; thence northwesterly along the northern edge
of said right of way to a point opposite the northwest corner of Lot
2, Section 8, Range 2, Plan 12543; thence directly north to the low
water level mark on the northern shore of the southernmost channel of
the Koksilah River; thence easterly along the northern shore of said
channel to the southeasternmost point of Lot 1, section 9, Range 3,
Plan 1725; thence southeasterly in an arc that passes between Lots 19A
and 19B (commonly known as Widgeon island), to the point of
commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 219/2000, s. 5 (b).]





Repealed




22


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 170/2001, s. 3.]






Nanaimo




23


Those 2 portions of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity
of the City of Nanaimo, Nanaimo Mountain and Cranberry Districts,
which are contained within the following described boundaries:




(1)

Commencing at the intersection of Dumont Road and the Nanaimo City
boundary near Brannen Lake: southerly along the east side of Dumont
Road to the B.C. Hydro Transmission Line RW763; then southeasterly
along the East side of said right of way to its intersection with the
Nanaimo City boundary near the junction of Jingle Pot and East
Wellington roads; thence easterly and northerly along the City
boundary to the point of commencement.




(2)

Commencing at the intersection of the Nanaimo City boundary, the B.C.
Hydro Transmission Line RW763, and Harewood Mines Road; thence
easterly and southerly along the Nanaimo City boundary to its
intersection with said transmission line RW; thence northwesterly
along the east side of the transmission line RW to the point of
commencement.






Repealed




24


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 204/91, s. 4.]






Repealed




25


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 239/2018, App. 1, s. 4 (a).]






Repealed




26


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 162/87, s. 14.]






Cherry Point




27


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
Satellite Channel, Shawnigan District, which is contained within the
following described boundaries:



Commencing at Cherry Point, Satellite Channel; thence southerly and
southeasterly following the high water mark to Hatch Point; thence in
a northwesterly direction in a straight line from Hatch Point to
Cherry Point, being point of commencement.






Highways




28

(1) to (4)


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 211/93, s. 7.]




(5)

Those portions of the Province of British Columbia within 50 m of the
travelled portion of the following described highways:




(a) to (c)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 211/93, s. 7.]




(d)

the Hemlock Valley Recreation Area Road from its junction with the
Weaver Creek Road to the second bridge across Sakwi Creek.




(6)

That portion of the Province of British Columbia within 150 m of the
travelled portion of the Hemlock Valley Recreation Area Road north of
the second bridge across Sakwi Creek.




(7)

Those portions of the Province of British Columbia




(a)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 167/88, s. 3.]




(b)

within 0.4 km west of the centerline and 1.0 km east of the centerline
of Highway 99 between the northern boundary of the District
Municipality of West Vancouver and the southern boundary of the
District Municipality of Squamish, and




(c)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 211/93, s. 7.]




(d)

within 0.4 km of the centerline of Highway 113 between Terrace and
Kincolith (Gingolx).




(8)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 211/93, s. 7.]




(9)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 151/2006, s. 4 (a).]




(10)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 211/93, s. 7.]




(11)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 235/97, s. 3 (b).]


[am. B.C. Regs. 204/85, s. 2 (1); 172/86, s. 2; 162/87, s. 15; 325/87,
s. 1; 167/88, s. 3; 309/88, s. 1; 176/89, s. 3; 185/90, ss. 4 to 7;
459/90, s. 2; 204/91, s. 5; 277/91, Sch. 2, s. 1; 211/93, s. 7;
190/96, s. 5 (a); 235/97, s. 3 (b); 151/2006, s. 4 (a); 175/2010, App.
1, s. 2.]






Paaren's Beach




29


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
the Village of Fort St. James, Range 5, Coast District, which is
contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the northwest corner of Lot 314, Range 5, Coast
District; thence easterly and southerly along the boundary of said lot
to its southeast corner; thence westerly along the south boundaries of
Lots 314, 549, 550, 1665, 1644 and 1643 to its southwest corner;
thence to a point northerly 594 metres (1 980 feet) along the west
boundary of Lot 1643; thence in a straight line due West to the west
boundary of Lot 1643A; thence northerly along the western boundary of
said lot to the low water mark of Stuart Lake; thence in an easterly
direction following said low water mark to point of commencement.

[am. B.C. Reg. 189/84, s. 2.]





Repealed




30


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 162/87, s. 16.]






Blind Bay




31


That portion of the Province in the vicinity of the Village of Chase,
KDYD, which is contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the mean high water mark at Reedman Point on Shuswap
Lake; thence southwesterly to the intersection of the westerly
boundary of Section 24, Township 22, Range 11, W6M, and Shuswap Lake;
thence due South to the Sorrento-Eagle Bay Road; thence easterly,
southerly and northerly along said road to the south boundary of
Section 30, Township 22, Range 10, W6M; thence northwesterly along the
Sorrento-Eagle Bay Road for 500 m; thence westerly to the point of
commencement.






Sooke and Metchosin




32


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the South Saanich,
Malahat, Goldstream, Otter Point, Sooke, Metchosin and Esquimalt
Districts which is contained within the following described
boundaries:



Commencing at the high water mark at the extremity of Sluggett Point;
thence southerly in a straight line to the low water mark at the
extremity of Willis Point; thence southerly, westerly and southerly
along the low water mark of Saanich Inlet to the point of intersection
with the northern boundary of Goldstream Provincial Park; thence
westerly along said northern boundary to the point of intersection
with the western boundary of the right of way of the Esquimalt and
Nanaimo Railway; thence southerly along said western boundary to the
point of intersection with the western boundary of the right of way of
the B.C. Hydro powerline; thence southerly and westerly along the
western and northern boundaries of said right of way to the point of
intersection with the northern boundary of the right of way of the
Canadian National Railway, at the Cooper's Cove crossing; thence
westerly and northwesterly along said railway right of way boundary to
the point of intersection with the natural boundary of Todd Creek, on
the southern bank thereof; thence in a general westerly direction
along the said natural boundary to the point of intersection with the
western natural boundary of Sooke River; thence in a general southerly
direction along said western natural boundary to the point of
intersection with the northern boundary of the right of way of the
B.C. Hydro powerline; thence westerly along said right of way boundary
to the point of intersection with Young Lake Road, then generally
North and perpendicular to said right of way for a distance of 800
metres, then generally West paralleling said right of way to the point
of intersection with the east bank of Tugwell Creek, then generally
South following the east bank of Tugwell Creek to the intersection
with the north boundary of the right of way of said powerline, then
generally westerly along said right of way to the point of
intersection with the natural boundary of the Jordan River, thence in
a generally northerly direction along the east bank of Jordan River to
the confluence of Sinn Fein Creek, thence in a generally northerly and
westerly direction following Sinn Fein Creek to the crossing of Jordan
River main; thence in a generally southerly and westerly direction
following the north boundary of Jordan River main to the intersection
with North main; thence following North main 100 metres north to 48°
44' north latitude, 124° 06' west longitude; thence in a southerly
direction following North main 100 metres from the western shoulder to
the intersection with Uglow Creek; thence in a southerly direction
following Uglow Creek to the intersection of Highway 14; thence
in a general southerly direction along said natural boundary to the
northern boundary of the right of way of Highway 14; thence in a
general westerly direction along the northern boundary of Highway 14
to the point of intersection with the western boundary of the right of
way of that secondary road leading from Port Renfrew to Botanical
Beach Provincial Park; thence in a general southwesterly direction
along the western boundary of said secondary road to the point of
intersection with the northern boundary of said Provincial Park;
thence easterly and southerly along the northern and eastern
boundaries of said Provincial Park to the point of intersection with
the high water mark of Juan de Fuca Strait, on the northern shore
thereof; thence in a general southeasterly direction to the point of
intersection with the high water mark at Orveas Bay; thence due South
from the said intersection to a point in Juan de Fuca Strait 300
metres from the high water mark; thence in a general easterly
direction 300 metres out from the high water mark and parallel to the
shoreline to a point 300 metres south of the high water mark at the
extremity of Parsons Point; thence easterly in a straight line to a
point 300 metres distant from the western high water mark of Simpson
Point, at the extremity thereof; thence along a line 300 metres
distant from and parallel to the high water mark in a general easterly
and northerly direction to a point due East of the extremity of Cape
Calver; thence northeasterly in a straight line to a point 300 metres
due East of the high water mark of William Head, at the extremity
thereof; thence along a line 300 metres distant from and parallel to
the high water mark in a general westerly, northerly and easterly
direction to a point due East of Fisgard Island; thence northeasterly
in a straight line to the point of intersection with the projection of
the boundary of the Township of Esquimalt, southeast of Ashe Head;
thence northeasterly along said boundary to the point of intersection
with the southern boundary of the District of Saanich; thence westerly
and northerly along the southern and western boundaries of the
District of Saanich to the point of intersection with the southern
natural boundary of Tod Creek; thence in a general northwesterly
direction along said natural boundary to the point of intersection
with the high water mark of Tod Inlet; thence in a general northerly
direction along the high water mark of Tod Inlet and Brentwood Bay to
the point of commencement, except those parts of M.U.s 1-1 and 1-2
that are wholly contained and legally defined within the corporate
limits of the Corporations of the Districts of Highlands, Sooke and
Metchosin, the City of Colwood, Langford Municipality, and the Town of
View Royal.


[en. B.C. Reg. 322/95, s. 3 (a); am. B.C. Regs. 225/98, s. 4 (a);
170/2001, s. 3; 189/2002, s. 1 (a); 163/2008, App. 1; 130/2016, App.
1, s. 3.]






Elbow Lake




33


That portion of the Province of British Columbia, being all the area
0.8 km (1/2 mile) on either side of the centreline of the portion of
the Canadian Forest Products Chehalis Main Road, in the vicinity of
Elbow Lake, NWD, which is contained within the following boundaries:


The Canadian Forest Products Chehalis Main Road commencing at the
point due West of the most northerly portion of Elbow Lake; thence
northerly for a distance of 2.4 km (1.5 miles).






Rose Lake




34


That portion of the Province in the vicinity of the Town of Williams
Lake, Cariboo Land District, which is contained within the following
described boundaries:


Those waters of Rose Lake to the maximum high water mark.






Mayo Lake




35


That portion of the Province in the vicinity of the Corporation of the
City of Duncan, Quamichan Land District, which is contained within the
following described boundaries:


All that area bounded on the south by the southern boundary of Block
32, Cowichan Lake Land District; on the west by the Mayo Lake Road; on
the north by the E. & N. Railway right of way; and on the east by
the Skutz Falls Road.






Repealed




36


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 162/87, s. 17.]






Red Rock Seed Orchard




37


That portion of the Province of British Columbia, in the vicinity of
the City of Prince George, which is contained within the following
described boundaries:


All lands and waters within Lots 1607, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020,
2021, 2022, 2023, 2024, 2025 and 2026, Cariboo Land District.


[en. B.C. Reg. 185/90, s. 9; am. B.C. Reg. 224/92, s. 8.]






Wells




38


That portion of the Province of British Columbia, in the vicinity of
Wells, Cariboo Land District, which is contained within the following
described boundaries:



Commencing at the northeast corner of Lot 131, Cariboo Land District;
thence due South to the southeast corner of Lot 11062, Cariboo Land
District; thence southwesterly to the most southern portion of Lot
7795, Cariboo Land District; thence in a generally westerly direction
along the southern boundary, and the extension thereof, of Lot 7795,
Cariboo Land District, to the mean high water mark of the easterly
shore of Jack of Clubs Lake; thence southwesterly along the shore of
said lake to the most southerly portion thereof; thence in a
northwesterly direction to the intersection of Jack of Clubs Creek
Road and Highway 26; thence in a northeasterly direction along said
highway to a point due South of the western boundary of Lot 289,
Cariboo Land District; thence due North to a point due West of the
northwest corner of Lot 131, Cariboo Land District; thence due East to
the point of commencement.






Repealed




39-40


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 322/95, s. 3 (b).]






Line Creek Operations




41


That portion of M.U. 4-23 in the vicinity of Sparwood outlined in red
on the attached Map No. 5-41/18.

[en. B.C. Reg. 239/2018, App. 1, s. 4 (b).]





Repealed




42


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 194/99, s. 5 (b).]






Repealed




43


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 205/94, s. 10.]






Link Island




44


That portion of M.U. 1-1 in the Strait of Georgia which is contained
within the following described boundary:



The mean low water mark of Link Island.






Lakelse Lake




45


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
Lakelse Lake, Range 5, Coast District within the following described
boundaries:



Commencing at the mouth of Schulbuckhand Creek; thence northerly along
the east shore of Lakelse Lake to the mouth of Williams Creek; thence
easterly along the north bank of Williams Creek to Highway 37; thence
southerly along Highway 37 to Schulbuckhand Creek; thence westerly
along the north bank of Schulbuckhand Creek to the point of
commencement.

[am. B.C. Reg. 162/87, s.18.]





Queen Charlotte City




46


That portion of the Province of British Columbia on Haida Gwaii
described as:



Queen Charlotte City District Lots 15, 15A, 16, 16A, 18 and 3.

[am. B.C. Reg. 251/2010, Sch. s. 1.]





Sandspit




47


That portion of the Province of British Columbia on Haida Gwaii
described as:



Sandspit District Lots 159, 159A, 160, 161, 162, 163, 164, 165, 166,
307, 2143, 2144, 2145 and 1317.

[am. B.C. Reg. 251/2010, Sch. s. 1.]





Naramata




48


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
Naramata within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the mouth of Trust Creek and proceeding upstream along
the northern natural boundary of Trust Creek to its intersection with
Chute Lake Road; thence proceeding southerly along the eastern edge of
the travelled portion of Chute Lake Road to Naramata Road; thence
proceeding southerly along the eastern edge of the travelled portion
of Naramata Road to its intersection with Old Main Road; thence
proceeding westerly along the southern edge of the travelled portion
of Old Main Road to Arawana Creek; thence proceeding downstream along
the southern natural boundary of Arawana Creek to Okanagan Lake;
thence proceeding southwesterly in a straight line at right angles to
the shore of Okanagan Lake at Arawana Creek for a distance of 100 m;
thence proceeding northerly parallel to and 100 m distant from the
eastern natural boundary of Okanagan Lake to a point 100 m west of the
mouth of Trust Creek; thence proceeding east in a straight line to the
point of commencement.






Huntingdon and Sumas Mountain




49


That portion of the Province of British Columbia described as:



Electoral Area H of the Fraser Valley Regional District.

[am. B.C. Reg. 190/96, s. 5 (b).]





Repealed




50-52


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 190/96, s. 5 (c).]






Hope




53


Those two portions of the Province of British Columbia within M.U.s
2-2 and 2-17 in the vicinity of the Town of Hope within the following
described boundaries:




(1)

Commencing at the intersection of the Coquihalla Highway and the
easternmost boundary of the Town of Hope west of Thacker Creek; thence
northerly, westerly and northerly along the easterly boundary of the
Town of Hope to its intersection with the southwest corner of the
Aywawwis #15 Indian Reserve; thence easterly and northerly along the
southerly and easterly boundary of the reserve to a private logging
company road; thence southeasterly along the northern boundary of the
road to its intersection with Othello Road; thence in an easterly
direction to the pipeline pumping station; thence westerly along the
gas pipeline right of way to its intersection with the old Kettle
Valley Railway right of way; thence southeasterly along the northern
edge of the right of way to the point of its intersection with a line
due North from the mouth of Two Mile Creek; thence due South to the
mouth of Two Mile creek; thence southerly up Two Mile Creek to the
Coquihalla Highway; thence westerly along the Coquihalla Highway to
its point of commencement.




(2)

Commencing at the intersection of the No. 1 Highway and Chawuthen
Creek; thence northerly along the creek to its mouth; thence easterly
along the natural boundary of the Fraser River to the southerly end of
the Bristol Island causeway; thence easterly across the causeway to
the natural boundary of the Fraser River; thence easterly along the
natural boundary of the Fraser River to its point of intersection with
the southwesterly boundary of the Town of Hope; thence southerly and
easterly along the town boundary to a point 500 m south of its
intersection with Highway No. 1; thence southeasterly and easterly at
a perpendicular distance of 500 m and parallel to Highway No. 1 to a
point that is 500 m east of Silverhope Road; thence southerly at a
perpendicular distance of 500 m and parallel to Silverhope Road to a
point due North of Eureka Creek; thence due South along a straight
line through the mouth of Eureka Creek to a point 500 m due South of
Silverhope Road; thence westerly and northerly along a line parallel
to and 500 m perpendicularly distant from the centerline of Silverhope
Road to a point 500 m due South of Highway No. 1; thence easterly
along a line parallel to and 500 m perpendicularly distant from the
centerline of Highway No. 1 to a point due South of the mouth of
Chawuthen Creek; thence due North along a line to its point of
commencement

[en. B.C. Reg. 205/94, s. 11.]





Repealed




54


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 322/95, s. 3 (b).]






Yale




55


That portion of the Province of British Columbia contained within the
following described boundaries:



Commencing at the mouth of Gordon Creek; thence up Gordon Creek in a
westerly direction to the intersection of Gordon Creek and the
easterly boundary of the B.C. Hydro powerline right of way: thence
northeasterly to the intersection of the easterly boundary of the
right of way and Mary Ann Creek; thence southerly down the westerly
natural boundary of the Creek to its confluence with the Fraser River;
thence northerly and westerly along the boundary of the Yale Town
Number 1 Indian Reserve to its southwesterly corner: thence westerly
and southerly along the natural boundary of the Fraser River to the
point of commencement.






Popkum




56


That portion of the Province of British Columbia contained within the
following described boundaries:



Commencing at the intersection of the easterly boundary of the
District of Chilliwack and Highway No. 1; thence northerly, easterly
and northerly along the district boundary to the intersection of the
District boundary with the southerly boundary of the Cheam No. 1
Indian Reserve; thence easterly and northerly along the reserve
boundary to the southerly natural boundary of the Fraser River: thence
easterly along the natural boundary to its intersection with the
westerly boundary of the Popkum No. I Indian Reserve; thence
southeasterly along the reserve boundary to the most southerly corner
of the reserve; thence southeast in a straight line to a point 400 m
southeast of Highway No. 1; thence southwesterly parallel to and 400 m
distant from the highway to a point due South of the point of
commencement; thence northerly to the point of commencement.






Greenhills Operations




57


That portion of M.U. 4-23 in the vicinity of Elkford outlined in red
on the attached Map No. 5-57/18.


[en. B.C. Reg. 72/2014, App. 1, s. 2; am. B.C. Reg. 239/2018, App. 1,
s. 4 (c).]






Masset




58


That portion of M.U. 6-13 in the vicinity of Masset, described as
follows:



All of the area contained within District Lots 7, 7A, 8, 9, 10, 11,
233, 234, 347, 348, 361, 749, 883, 986, 987, 1759 and 1760 of the
Queen Charlotte Land District.

[am. B.C. Reg. 109/85, s. 3 (f).]





Shoemaker Bay




59


That portion of M.U. 1-7 situated in the vicinity of Port Alberni,
Alberni District, commonly known as Shoemaker Bay and contained within
the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the northeast corner of District Lot 124 Alberni
District; thence due East to the intersection of R/W 997 (MacMillan
Bloedel pipeline); thence southeast along the southern boundary of R/W
997 to its intersection with the Alberni Municipal boundary; thence
easterly along the Alberni Municipal boundary to its intersection with
the Port Alberni Municipal boundary; thence southerly along the Port
Alberni Municipal boundary to the most southwesterly boundary of Lot
232; thence northwesterly across Alberni Inlet to the southeast corner
of Block 678; thence northerly along the mean high water mark to a
point approximately 182 m due East of the southeast corner of District
Lot 124; thence due North along the east boundary of District Lot 124
to the point of commencement.






Whistler




60


Those portions of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
the Resort Municipality of Whistler within the following described
boundaries:




(1)

and (2) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 72/2014, App. 1, s. 3 (b).]




(3)

Commencing at the center line of Highway 99 at its junction with the
easterly boundary of the Resort Municipality of Whistler, hereinafter
referred to as Whistler, and proceeding in a northerly and westerly
direction along the boundary of Whistler to its intersection with the
1 200 m contour line immediately east of Nineteen Mile Creek; thence
easterly and northerly along the contour line approximately 2 km to a
point on the contour line, above Sixteen Mile Creek, at the junction
of the easterly and southerly slopes of Rainbow Mountain; thence due
northeast in a straight line across Sixteen Mile Creek to the 1 050 m
contour line; thence easterly and northerly along the contour line to
a point due West of the intersection of the power line and Highway 99
approximately 3 km northeast of the point of commencement; thence due
East to that intersection; thence along the southerly and the easterly
boundary of Highway 99 to a point due North of the junction of Rethel
Creek and the Green River; thence across the Green River and up the
northern and eastern natural boundary of Rethel Creek to its
intersection with the boundary of Garibaldi Provincial Park; thence
westerly along the boundary of the park to its intersection with the
eastern boundary of Whistler; thence northerly and easterly and
northerly along the boundary of Whistler to the point of commencement.




(4)

Commencing at the southwest corner of the Brandywine Falls Provincial
Park boundary; thence due West up the slope of Mount Brew to the 3 000
ft. (900 m) contour line; thence in a southerly direction along that
contour line to the point of its intersection with the unnamed creek
originating at Brew Lake; thence in a southerly direction downstream
to the confluence of the unnamed creek with Roe Creek; thence in an
easterly direction, downstream to the mouth of Roe Creek at Shadow
Lake; thence in an easterly direction, along the high water mark of
the northerly shore of Shadow Lake to the point of intersection of the
high water mark with a perpendicular, downward projection of the
centerline of Highway 99 from the center of the Highway 99 bridge
across the connecting waterway between Daisy Lake and Shadow Lake;
thence northerly along the centerline of Highway 99 to the point of
intersection with Brandywine Falls Provincial Park boundary; thence
westerly along the southern boundary of Brandywine Falls Provincial
Park to the southwest corner of Brandywine Falls Provincial Park,
being the point of commencement.


[am. B.C. Regs. 225/98, s. 4 (b); 72/2014, App. 1, s. 3.]






Evans Lake




61


That portion of the Province of British Columbia north of the
municipality of Squamish within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the intersection of the westerly shore of Evans Lake and
the boundary of the Cheakamus Indian Reserve Number 11; thence
westerly and northerly along the reserve boundary to a point, at an
approximate elevation of 300 m, due West of the northernmost point of
the shore of Levette Lake; thence in a straight line due northeast for
a distance of approximately 1.8 km to a point at the intersection of
the line and the 500 m contour line; thence due East to the easterly
boundary of the District of Squamish; thence southerly along the
District boundary to the point of its intersection with the northerly
boundary of the Cheakamus Indian Reserve Number 11; thence westerly
along the reserve boundary to the point of commencement.






Squamish




62


That portion of the Province of British Columbia within the following
described boundaries:



Commencing at the southeast corner of the District Municipality of
Squamish; thence due East to the 400 m contour line; thence northerly
along the contour to the point of its intersection with Gonzales
Creek; thence up the creek to the 600 m contour line; thence
northeasterly to its intersection with a road which lies between the
Stawamus River and Shannon Creek; thence northeasterly down the road
to its crossing of the Stawamus River; thence down the river to its
intersection with the boundary of the District of Squamish; thence
westerly and southerly along the boundary line of the District to the
point of commencement, excepting any Indian Reserve lands.






Nicomen




63


Those 4 portions of the Province of British Columbia in Fraser Valley
Regional District within the following described boundaries:




(1)

Commencing at the intersection of Farms Road and Legace Creek and
proceeding northerly along Farms Road to its intersection with Durieu
Road; thence easterly along the line of the northerly boundary of
Durieu Road right of way to the point of intersection of that line
with the easterly boundary of the Sylvester Road right of way and
thence southerly along the right of way to the point of its
intersection with a line drawn due East from the southerly boundary of
the Seux Road right of way; thence westerly along that line of the
southerly boundary of the right of way; thence westerly and northerly
along the southerly and westerly boundary of the Seux Road right of
way to the point of its intersection with Legace Creek; thence
westerly along the southerly natural boundary of the creek to the
point of commencement.




(2)

Commencing at the intersection of the westerly natural boundary of
Hatzic Slough and Dale Road; thence northeasterly along the
northwesterly natural boundary of the slough to its intersection with
Farm's Road; thence southerly along the easterly boundary of Farm's
Road to its intersection with Hatzic Slough, located approximately
1 000 m south of the intersection of Dale Road and Farm's
Road; thence westerly, northerly and northeasterly along the southerly
then westerly natural boundary of the slough to the point of
commencement.




(3)

Commencing at the intersection of Eagle Road and Highway 7; thence
westerly along the north side of the right of way of Highway 7 to its
intersection with the boundary of the Municipality of Mission; thence
generally northerly and westerly along the boundary to its
intersection with the 20 m contour line south and west of the end of
Sward Road; thence along the contour line to a point due West of the
most easterly point of the northeast-southwest component of Sward
Road; from thence due East to that point of reference; thence
southeasterly in a straight line across Hatzic Lake to a point on the
natural boundary of the lake 150 m north of a point due West of the
east-west portion of Shore Road, thence easterly in a straight line
parallel to Shore Road to the intersection of the line and Eagle Road;
thence southerly along Eagle Road to the point of commencement.




(4)

Commencing at the intersection of Ross Road and Highway 7; thence
northerly along the westerly boundary of Ross Road; thence due North
to Taylor Road; thence easterly along the northerly boundary of the
road right of way to the point of its intersection with Deroche Creek;
thence up the westerly bank of Deroche Creek to North Nicomen Road;
thence westerly along the southerly boundary of the road right of way
to a point at the westerly end of a curve located approximately 350 m
west of Park Road; thence due North to the 60 m contour line; thence
northerly along the contour line to its intersection with Deroche
Creek; thence northerly up Deroche Creek to its intersection with the
200 m contour line; thence northeasterly along the contour line to its
intersection with Sasin Creek; thence northerly up Sasin Creek to the
305 m contour line; thence easterly and northerly along the contour
line to its intersection with an unnamed creek channel whose
confluence with Elbow Creek is located approximately 350 m southerly
from the outlet of Elbow Lake; thence easterly down the creek channel
to the point where it intersects the Elbow Lake Road; thence southerly
and easterly along the northerly and easterly boundary of the road
right of way to the southerly end of a curve in the road which is
located approximately 600 m north of the intersection of Elbow Lake
Road and Highway 7; thence due East to the natural boundary of the
Harrison River; thence southerly along the natural boundary to the No.
7 Highway Harrison River bridge; thence westerly and southerly along
the natural boundary of Harrison Bay to the southeasterly corner of
the Squawkum Creek Indian Reserve Number 3; thence due South to the
200 m contour line; thence westerly and southerly along the contour
line to the channel of an unnamed creek which crosses Malcolm Road 50
m southeast of the intersection of Malcolm Road and Hodgkin Road;
thence southwesterly down the creek channel to Malcolm Road; thence
northwesterly along Malcolm Road to its intersection with the Canadian
Pacific Railway right of way; thence southwesterly along the southerly
boundary of the railway right of way to its intersection with Highway
7; thence southeasterly and southwesterly along the easterly and
southerly boundary of the highway right of way to the point of
commencement, excepting Indian Reserve lands.




(5)

Commencing at the intersection of Farms Road and Mountainview Road and
proceeding northerly along the westerly boundary of the Mountainview
Road right of way to the point of its intersection with Hatzic Slough;
thence due North to the northerly natural boundary of Hatzic Slough;
thence southwesterly along the natural boundary to its intersection
with the southerly boundary of the Farms Road right of way; thence
westerly along that boundary to the point of commencement.


[am. B.C. Regs. 109/85, s. 3 (g); 235/97, s. 3 (c).]






Sechelt




64


Those 6 portions of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 2-5 in
the vicinity of the Sechelt Peninsula within the following described
boundaries:




(1)

Commencing at the mouth of an unnamed creek where it flows into
Plowden Bay at the mean low water mark; thence up the northern and
eastern natural boundary of the creek to its intersection with the
northern and western boundary of the right of way of the BC Hydro
(double) power line; thence westerly and southerly along the boundary
of the power line to its intersection with Langdale Creek; thence
easterly down the southern natural boundary of Langdale Creek to a
point on the mean low water mark at the mouth of the creek, where it
flows into Howe Sound; thence northerly, westerly and easterly along
the mean low water mark on the natural boundary of Howe Sound to the
point of commencement.




(2)

Commencing at a point on the mean low water mark on the southern
natural boundary of Langdale Creek where it flows into Howe Sound;
thence westerly and northerly along the natural boundary to a point
500 m westerly and northerly of its intersection with the western and
northern boundary of the right of way of the BC Hydro (double)
powerline; thence southerly and westerly and northerly parallel to the
northerly, westerly and easterly boundary of the right of way of the
powerline at a perpendicular distance of 500 m from it to a point
perpendicular to the intersection of the power line right of way and
the western natural boundary of Halfmoon Creek; thence southerly and
westerly along the natural boundary of the creek to a point on the
mean low water mark at the mouth of Halfmoon Creek where it flows into
Halfmoon Bay; thence generally easterly and southerly and northerly
along the mean low water mark on the natural boundary of Georgia
Strait and Howe sound to the point of commencement.




(3)

Commencing at the intersection of the boundary of the right of way of
Highway 101 and the western natural boundary of Halfmoon Creek; thence
northerly and easterly along the boundary of the creek a distance of
500 m; thence northerly and westerly parallel to Highway 101, at a
perpendicular distance of 500 m from the northern, eastern and western
boundary of the Highway, to a point on the northern natural boundary
of Haslam Creek approximately 500 m east of the intersection of the
eastern boundary of the right of way of Highway 101 and the northern
natural boundary of Haslam Creek; thence westerly along the northern
natural boundary of Haslam Creek to a point on the mean low water mark
at the mouth of the creek where it flows into Georgia Strait; thence
generally southerly, easterly, westerly, southerly and easterly along
the mean low water mark of the natural boundary of Georgia Strait to
its intersection with the northern natural boundary of Halfmoon Creek;
thence northerly and easterly up the natural boundary of Halfmoon
Creek to the point of commencement.




(4)

Commencing at the intersection of the northern natural boundary of
Haslam Creek and the mean low water mark on the boundary of Georgia
Strait where the creek flows into Georgia Strait; thence easterly and
northerly up the northern natural boundary of Haslam Creek to a point
500 m upstream of Highway 101; thence in a straight line northerly to
the summit of Cecil Hill; thence due East in a straight line to a
point 500 m west of the BC Hydro powerline right of way; thence in a
northeasterly and northerly direction parallel to the power line and
at a perpendicular distance of 500 m from it to the north fork of
Myers Creek; thence downstream along the natural boundary of Myers
Creek to its intersection with Garden Bay Road; thence westerly and
northerly and southerly along the northern boundary of Garden Bay Road
to its intersection with Mixal Road and Irvines Landing Road; thence
westerly and southerly along the northern boundary of Irvines Landing
Road to its intersection with Crosstrees Road; thence southerly and
westerly along the northern boundary of Crosstrees Road to its
intersection with Keelson Road; thence northerly and westerly along
the easterly and northerly boundary of Keelson Road to its end; thence
in a straight line due West to a point on the mean low water mark on
the boundary of Georgia Strait; thence northerly and westerly along
the natural boundary of Georgia Strait to Daniel Point; thence
southerly in a straight line to the westernmost tip of Martin Island;
thence southerly in a straight line to Francis Point; thence easterly
in a straight line to the southern tip of an unnamed island lying
approximately 400 m east of Francis Point; thence in a straight line
easterly to the southern tip of Edgecombe Island; thence in a straight
line due East a distance of approximately 650 m to a point at the mean
low water mark on the natural boundary of the Sechelt Peninsula;
thence southerly and easterly along the mean low water mark on the
natural boundary of the Strait of Georgia to the point of
commencement, excepting all Indian Reserve lands.




(5)

Commencing at a point on the northerly natural boundary of Chapman
Creek 500 m upstream from its intersection with the northerly boundary
of the BC Hydro powerline right of way; thence northwesterly, parallel
to the powerline at a perpendicular distance of 500 m to a point 500 m
east of Porpoise Bay Road; thence in a generally northerly direction
parallel to and at a perpendicular distance of 500 m from Porpoise Bay
Road to the road's end at Tuwanek; thence in a straight line due North
to the natural boundary of Irvine Creek; thence down Irvine Creek
westerly to its mouth; thence southwesterly in a straight line to an
unnamed point of land forming the northerly shore of Snake Bay and
continuing to a point 500 m perpendicularly distant from the northern
boundary of the BC Hydro powerline right of way; thence southerly and
easterly along a line parallel to and 500 m perpendicularly distant
from the northern boundary of the BC Hydro power line right of way to
the point of commencement, excepting all Indian Reserve lands.




(6)

Commencing at a point on Roberts Creek 500 m northeasterly from the
northeast boundary of the BC Hydro (double) powerline; thence
northeasterly up the natural boundary of Roberts Creek to a point 2.5
kilometres from the intersection of the powerline; thence in a
northwesterly direction perpendicular to and at a distance of 2
kilometres from the northerly boundary of the powerline right of way
to East Wilson Creek; thence in a southwesterly direction down the
natural boundary of East Wilson Creek to a point 500 m northeasterly
from the northeast boundary of the BC Hydro (double) powerline; thence
parallel to the BC Hydro (double) powerline in a southeasterly
direction at a perpendicular distance of 500 m from it to the point of
commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 205/94, s. 12.]





Gillies Bay




65


That portion of the Province of British Columbia within M.U. 2-14 in
the vicinity of Gillies Bay contained within the following described
boundaries:



Commencing at the intersection of Cranby Creek and the Gillies Bay
Highway; thence due southwest along a line through the Gillies Bay
water tower to the mean low water mark on the natural boundary of
Gillies Bay; thence southeasterly along the low water mark to the most
southerly point of the north end of Gillies Bay; thence more or less
south in a straight line to the most westerly point on the mean low
water mark of the natural boundary of Dick Island; thence in a general
southerly, easterly and northerly direction along the mean low water
mark on the natural boundary of Dick Island to most easterly point
thereof; thence more or less west in a straight line to a point on the
mean low water mark of the natural boundary of Gillies Bay due West of
the west end of Shelter Point Road; thence along the northern boundary
of the Shelter Point Road right of way to a point 700 metres east of
the junction of the Gillies Bay Highway and Shelter Point Road; thence
northerly and northeasterly along a line parallel to and 700 metres
perpendicular to the Gillies Bay Highway to a point due East of the
intersection of Cranby Creek and the Gillies Bay Highway; thence due
West to the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 205/94, s. 13.]





Saltery Bay




66


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 2-12 in the
vicinity of Saltery Bay within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at a point on the mean low water mark on the southeastern
natural boundary of Rainy Day Lake Creek where it flows into Saltery
Bay; thence up the creek to a point 300 m upstream of the right of way
of the British Columbia Hydro (double) power line; thence westerly
parallel to the northerly boundary of the power line at a
perpendicular distance of 300 m from it to a point due North from the
northwest corner of the western part of Saltery Bay Provincial Park;
thence due South in a straight line to a point on the mean low water
mark on the natural boundary of Jervis Inlet; thence southeasterly
along the natural boundary to the most southerly tip of an unnamed
point of land located approximately 1 100 m southwesterly from
the southwest corner of the eastern part of Saltery Bay Provincial
Park; thence easterly along a line between that point and a point on
the mean low water mark on an unnamed point of land which is the
southerly point of the easterly shore of Saltery Bay; thence northerly
along the mean low water mark on the natural boundary to the point of
commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 205/94, s. 14.]





Blubber Bay




67


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 2-16 in the
vicinity of Blubber Bay contained within the following described
boundaries:




(1)

within a 1 kilometre radius of the Blubber Bay Ferry Terminal, and




(2)

commencing at Blubber Point; thence westerly, southerly and
southeasterly along the mean low water mark to the midpoint of
Limekiln Bay; thence due North to the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 205/94, s. 15.]





Lund




68


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 2-12
contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at a point on the mean high water mark that is the most
southerly point of the natural boundary of Thulin Lake; thence
northerly along the mean high water mark on the westerly natural
boundary of the lake to the northernmost tip of the lake; thence along
a straight line due West to the right of way of Finn Bay Road; thence
northwesterly along the right of way to its intersection with Norlund
Road; thence in a straight line southwest to a point on the mean low
water mark on the natural boundary of Thulin Passage; thence southerly
along the natural boundary to the most southwesterly point of land
bordering the entrance to Thulin passage; thence along a straight line
easterly to the point of land southwest of Lund which is the
northeasterly terminus of the Savary Island marine telephone cable;
thence southerly along the natural boundary to a small unnamed bay
approximately 500 m southeasterly from the telephone cable
terminus point; thence along a straight line due East to the Highway
101 right of way; thence along a straight line due North to the point
of commencement.


[en. B.C. Reg. 205/94, s. 16; am. B.C. Reg. 301/2010, App. 1.]






Vananda




69


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
Vananda contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at a point on the mean low water mark on the northern
natural boundary of Sturt Creek where it flows into Malaspina Strait
and proceeding due South in a straight line to the southerly boundary
of the Blubber Bay Highway right of way; thence southeasterly along
the southerly boundary of the highway right of way to its intersection
with Gillies Bay Highway; thence southwest and southeast along the
westerly right of way to its intersection with Vananda Creek; thence
in a straight line due East to the westerly right of way of Central
Road; thence southeasterly along the right of way to the junction of
the Imperial Limestone Road; thence due North in a straight line to a
point on the mean low water mark on the natural boundary of Malaspina
Strait; thence northwesterly along the natural boundary to the
southerly terminus of the Texada Island telephone cable; thence
northwesterly in a straight line to the tip of Sturt Point; thence
southerly and westerly along the mean low water mark on the natural
boundary of Sturt Point to the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 205/94, s. 17.]





Repealed




70


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 175/2010, App. 1, s. 3.]






Repealed




71


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 109/85. s. 3 (a).]






Repealed




72


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 175/2010, App. 1, s. 3.]






Michael Lake




73


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in Oyster Land
District contained within the following described boundaries:



The mean high water mark of Michael Lake.

[en. B.C. Reg. 109/85, s. 3 (i).]





Burrard Inlet




74


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
the City of Vancouver within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at Point Grey and proceeding in a straight line northerly
to a point on the southerly municipal boundary of West Vancouver due
South of Point Atkinson; thence easterly along the boundary to the
southerly boundary of North Vancouver municipality; thence easterly
along the boundary to the easterly boundary of North Vancouver; thence
due South to the north boundary of the municipality of Burnaby; thence
westerly along the boundary to the north boundary of the City of
Vancouver; thence westerly, northwesterly, westerly, southerly and
westerly along the boundary to the west boundary of the City of
Vancouver; thence southerly along the boundary to the high water mark
on Point Grey beach; thence westerly along the high water mark to the
point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 109/85, s. 3 (i).]





Okanagan Falls




75


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the Similkameen
Division of Yale Land District within the following described
boundaries:



Commencing at the southeastern corner of the railway trestle which
crosses the south end of Skaha Lake and proceeding northwesterly along
the easterly edge of the trestle to its intersection with the mean
high water mark of Skaha Lake; thence due West to a point on the
westerly edge of the Highway 97 right of way to the point of
intersection with the westerly boundary of the right of way of Green
Lake Road; thence southerly along the westerly edge of the right of
way to a point due West of a velocity drop structure on Okanagan River
northwest of the northeastern corner of Lot 109 Yale District; thence
due East to the easterly edge of the East River Dyke; thence
northwesterly along the easterly edge of the dyke to the southeasterly
bank of Shuttleworth Creek; thence northeasterly along the bank to the
second set of railway tracks; thence southeasterly then northeasterly
along the railway tracks to the easterly edge of the Maple Street
right of way; thence northwesterly along the easterly edge of the
right of way to the end of Maple Street; thence due North in a
straight line to a point due East of the point of commencement; thence
due West in a straight line to the mean high water mark of Skaha Lake;
thence westerly along the mean high water mark to the point of
commencement.


[en. B.C. Reg. 109/85, s. 3 (i); am. B.C. Reg. 172/86, s. 2.]






Kaleden




76


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the Similkameen
Division of Yale Land District contained within the following
described boundaries:



Commencing at the point of intersection of the westerly boundary of L.
3569s and the natural boundary of Skaha Lake on the westerly shore
thereof; thence southerly along the westerly boundary of L. 3569s to
the point of intersection with the midline of Highway 97; thence due
West to the point of intersection with the easterly boundary of Indian
Reserve l; thence southerly along the easterly boundaries of Indian
Reserve 1 and L. 2456s to the southeast corner of L. 2456s; thence
easterly along the southerly boundaries of L. 213s, L. 104s and L.
105s to the point of intersection with the midline of Linden Avenue;
thence in a general southerly direction along the midline of Linden
Avenue to the most southerly point thereof; thence due East to the
point of intersection with the natural boundary of Skaha Lake on the
westerly shore thereof; thence in a general northerly direction along
the natural boundary of Skaha Lake on the westerly shore thereof to
the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 162/87, s. 20.]





Coal Mountain Operations




77


That portion of M.U. 4-23 in the vicinity of Sparwood outlined in red
on the attached Map No. 5-77/18.

[en. B.C. Reg. 239/2018, App. 1, s. 4 (d).]





Highland Valley




78


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 3-18
contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the apex of Gnawed Mountain; thence northerly in a
straight line to the point of intersection with the reclaim water line
due East of Gnawed Lake; thence in a general easterly direction along
the reclaim water line to the point of intersection with the westerly
boundary of Highmont Ultimate Tailings Pond; thence in a general
southeasterly, easterly and northerly direction along the westerly,
southerly and easterly boundaries of the said Tailings Pond and a
prolongation thereof to the point of intersection with the fresh water
supply line south of Squetankilhats Indian Reserve 15; thence in a
general northerly direction along the said water line and a
prolongation thereof to the point of intersection with the midline of
the Highland Valley Highway; thence in a general westerly direction
along the midline of the said highway to the point west of Enquotco
Indian Reserve 14 at which the existing gas pipeline crosses the said
Highway; thence northeasterly in a straight line to the point of
intersection with the natural boundary of Spud Lake at the most
easterly point thereof; thence in a general northerly direction along
the natural boundary of Spud Lake to the most northerly point thereof;
thence northwesterly in a straight line to the point of intersection
with the natural boundary of Copper Lake at the most easterly point
thereof; thence in a general northerly direction along the natural
boundary of Copper Lake to the most northerly point thereof; thence
northwesterly in a straight line to the point of intersection with the
natural boundary of Bose Lake at the most southerly point thereof;
thence in a general northwesterly direction along the natural boundary
of Bose Lake to the most westerly point thereof; thence northwesterly
in a straight line to the point of intersection with the midline of
the existing secondary road west of Bose Lake; thence in a general
westerly direction along the midline of said existing secondary road
to the point of intersection with the midline of the existing mining
road leading to Forge Mountain; thence westerly in a straight line to
the point of intersection with the midline of Highland Valley Highway
north of Chilthnaux Indian Reserve 12 at which the existing powerline
crosses the said Highway; thence in a general westerly direction along
the midline of the said Highway to the point of intersection with
midline of the new Highland Valley Highway; thence in a general
westerly direction along the said new Highway to the point of
intersection with the old Highland Valley Highway; thence in a
southerly direction along the old Highland Valley Highway to the point
of intersection with the midline of the existing secondary road
leading southeasterly to Pukaist Creek; thence southeasterly along the
midline of the said existing secondary road to the point of
intersection with the midline of the existing water pipeline; thence
in a general easterly and southerly direction along the midline of the
said existing water pipeline to the point of intersection with the
prolongation of the midline of the existing mining road leading
southwesterly to Alwin Mines; thence in a general southwesterly
direction along the said prolongation, the midline of the said
existing mining road and the southerly prolongation thereof to a point
one kilometre distant from the active workings of Alwin Mines; thence
in a general southerly and easterly direction along a line at least
one kilometre distant from the active workings of Alwin, Valley
Copper, Lornex and Highmont Mines to the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 205/94, s. 18.]





Repealed




79


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 170/2001, s. 3.]






Repealed




80


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 204/91, s. 7.]






Fording Mountain




81


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
the Fording River, Kootenay District, which is contained within the
following described boundaries:



Commencing at the point of intersection of the northerly boundaries of
Fording River and Elk River; thence in a general northeasterly and
northerly direction along the northerly and westerly bank of Fording
River to the point of intersection of the northerly prolongation of
the west bank of Fording River with the midline of Highway 43; thence
in a general easterly and southerly direction along the midline of
Highway 43 to the point of intersection with the easterly bank of Elk
River; thence in a general southerly direction along the easterly bank
of Elk River to the point of commencement including all intervening
territory.


[en. B.C. Reg. 385/85, s. (b); am. B.C. Reg. 204/91, s. 8.]






Repealed




82


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 219/2000, s. 5 (f).]






Repealed




83


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 162/87, s. 21.]






Upper Halfway




84


That portion of Peace River District being the westerly half of Lot
1323.

[en. B.C. Reg. 172/86, s. 2.]





Sylvester Road




85


That portion of Fraser Valley Regional District being 50 m either side
of the centreline of Sylvester Road between the midline of Farms Road
and the midline of Dale Road.


[en. B.C. Reg. 172/86, s. 2; am. B.C. Reg. 235/97, s. 3 (d).]






York Lake




86


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the general
vicinity of York Lake, Cedar Land District, which is contained within
the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the point of intersection of the midline of Holden Corso
Road and the midline of McMillan Road; thence in a southerly direction
along the midline of McMillan Road to the point of intersection with
the midline of Walsh Road; thence in a general easterly direction
along the midline of Walsh Road to the point of intersection with the
midline of Nairne Road; thence in a southerly direction along the
midline of Nairne Road to the point of intersection with the midline
of Ryeland Road; thence in a westerly direction along the midline of
Ryeland Road to the point of intersection with the midline of Cedar
Road; thence in a general westerly direction along the midline of
Cedar Road to the point of intersection with the midline of McMillan
Road; thence in a northerly direction along the midline of McMillan
Road to the point of intersection with the midline of Sanford Way;
thence in a westerly direction along the midline of Sanford Way to the
point of intersection with the midline of Torberg Road; thence in a
general northerly direction along the midline of Torberg Road to the
point of intersection with the midline of Holden Corso Road; thence in
an easterly direction along the midline of Holden Corso Road to the
point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 162/87, s. 22.]





Mascot Gold Mines Limited




87


Commencing at the point of intersection of the midline of the Apex
Alpine to Nickel Plate Road and the midline of Sunset Creek; thence in
a general southerly direction along the midline of Sunset Creek to the
point of intersection with the midline of Cahill Creek; thence in a
general southerly direction along the midline of Cahill Creek to the
point of intersection with the midline of Hedley-Nickel Plate Road;
thence in a general southerly direction along the midline of the said
road a distance of 3 290 m; thence due West 1 525 m; thence
due North 3 900 m to a point due West of the apex of Lookout Mountain;
thence due East to the apex of Lookout Mountain; thence more or less
east in a straight line to the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 162/87, s. 23.]





City of Terrace




88


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
the City of Terrace which is contained within the following described
boundaries:



Commencing at the point of intersection of the natural boundary of
Kitsumkalum River on the easterly shore thereof and the natural
boundary of Skeena River on the northerly shore thereof; thence in a
general easterly direction along the natural boundary of Skeena River
on the northerly shore thereof to the point of intersection with the
easterly boundary of L 4355A, Range 5, Coast Land District; thence
southerly along the easterly boundary of L 4355A to the point of
intersection with Treatment Plant Road; thence southerly along
Treatment Plant Road to the most southerly point thereof; thence due
East to the point of intersection with the natural boundary of Skeena
River on the northerly shore thereof; thence in a general westerly
direction along the natural boundary of Skeena River on the northerly
shore thereof to the point of intersection with the midline of Highway
37; thence in a general southerly direction along the midline of
Highway 37 to the point of intersection with the natural boundary of
Skeena River on the southerly shore thereof; thence in a general
westerly direction along the natural boundary of Skeena River on the
southerly shore thereof to the point due South of the point of
commencement; thence due North to the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 162/87, s. 24.]





Grantham Road




89


That portion of the Province of British Columbia being 0.4 km on each
side of the midline of the Telkwa-Morice Road, commencing from the
intersection of the midpoints of Walcott Station Road and the
Telkwa-Morice Road and continuing in a northerly direction to a point
3 km distant.

[en. B.C. Reg. 162/87, s. 25.]





Repealed




90


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 224/92, s. 9.]






Waugh Lake - Skookumchuck




91


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 2-5 contained
within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the most northerly point of the natural boundary of
Agamemnon Channel on the southerly shore thereof adjacent to and west
of Earls Cove; thence due South to the point of intersection with the
southerly boundary of the BC Hydro right of way; thence in a general
easterly and southerly direction along the southerly boundary of the
BC Hydro right of way to its intersection with Highway 101; thence
along a straight line due East to the mean low water mark of the
northwest bay of Brown Lake; thence easterly along the mean low water
mark of the northwest bay of Brown Lake to its most northeasterly
point; thence more or less east in a straight line to the most
westerly point on the mean high water mark on Boom Isles; thence
northerly in a straight line along Skookumchuck Narrows to the most
northerly point on the mean highwater mark of Sutton Islets; thence
more or less west in a straight line to the most northerly point on
the natural boundary of Agamemnon Channel on the southerly shore
thereof; thence more or less west in a straight line to the most
southwesterly point on the natural boundary of Agamemnon Channel on
the northerly shore thereof at Nile Point; thence more or less
southwesterly in a straight line to the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 205/94, s. 19.]





Hemlock Valley




92


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 2-19
contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the point of intersection of the midline of Weaver Creek
Road and the midline of Hemlock Valley Recreation Area Road; thence in
a general northerly direction along the midline of Hemlock Valley
Recreation Area Road to the point of intersection with the midline of
Sakwi Creek at 840 m elevation and including all intervening territory
for 50 m on either side of the midline of said road; thence in a
general northerly direction along the midline of said road to Hemlock
Valley Recreation Area and including all intervening territory for 150
m on either side of the midline of said road.


[en. B.C. Reg. 162/87, s. 28; am. B.C. Reg. 459/90, s. 2.]






Cold Fish Lake Camp




93


Those portions of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 6-20, being
all areas within 1 km of Cold Fish Lake Camp.

[en. B.C. Reg. 162/87, s. 29.]





Williams Lake River




94


That portion of M.U. 5-2 contained within the following described
boundaries:



Commencing at the point of intersection of the natural boundary of
Fraser River on the left bank thereof and the midline of Williams Lake
River; thence in a general southerly direction along the natural
boundary of Fraser River on the left bank thereof to the point of
intersection with the southerly boundary of L4731, Cariboo Land
District; thence easterly and northerly along the southerly and
easterly boundaries of L4731 to the point of intersection with the
midline of the unnamed road leading easterly to the City of Williams
Lake; thence in a general easterly direction along the midline of the
said unnamed road to the point of intersection with the westerly
boundary of the City of Williams Lake; thence easterly and northerly
along the westerly boundary of the City of Williams Lake to the point
of intersection with the midline of the B.C. Railroad right of way;
thence in a general westerly direction along the midline of the B.C.
Railway right of way to the point of intersection with the northerly
boundary of L4731; thence due West to the point of intersection with
the natural boundary of Fraser River on the left bank thereof; thence
in a general southerly direction along the natural boundary of Fraser
River on the left bank thereof to the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 325/87, s.1 (d).]





Equity Mines




95


That part of M.U. 6-09 in the vicinity of Houston which is contained
within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at a point on the Houston to Equity Silver Mine Road
approximately 150 metres east of the 36 kilometre mark; thence
approximately 1.7 kilometres at approximately S 20 W to the apex of an
unnamed peak south of Lu Lake; thence approximately 1.85 kilometres at
approximately S 26 E to the midline of the Goosley Lake Road; thence
approximately 3.2 kilometres at approximately N 86 E to the apex of an
unnamed peak; thence approximately 2.55 kilometres at approximately N
1 E to the apex of an unnamed peak; thence approximately 3.9
kilometres at approximately N 50 W to the apex of an unnamed peak;
thence approximately 2.2 kilometres at approximately S 19 W to the
point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 219/2000, s. 5 (g).]





Miworth




96


That portion of M.U. 7-15 in the vicinity of Prince George which is
contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the point of intersection of the westerly boundary of
the city of Prince George and the natural boundary of Nechako River on
the right bank thereof; thence in a general southerly direction along
the natural boundary of Nechako River on the right bank thereof to the
southerly boundary of Lot 7639 Cariboo Land District; thence due East
approximately 100 m to the Canadian National Railway right of way on
the easterly boundary thereof; thence approximately 2.2 km in a
general northerly direction along the easterly boundary of the said
railway right of way to the point of intersection with the midline of
an unnamed stream flowing westerly into Nechako River near the
southerly boundary of Lot 1532; thence in a general easterly direction
along the midline of the said unnamed stream to the point of
intersection with the westerly boundary of the city of Prince George;
thence in a general northerly direction along the westerly boundary of
the city of Prince George to the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 167/88, s. 7.]





Repealed




97


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 204/91, s. 9.]






Texada Junction




98


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
Texada Island contained within the following described boundaries



Commencing at a point along the midline of Central Road 2 km northerly
from the junction of Shelter Point Road, Bell Road and Central Road;
thence northeast a distance of 0.4 km; thence southeasterly and
southwesterly along a line parallel to Central Road to a point 0.4 km
east of the junction of Central Road, Bell Road and Shelter Point
Road; thence 2 km southerly and easterly along a line parallel to Bell
Road; thence southwesterly a distance of 0.2 km; thence southeasterly,
northeasterly and southeasterly along a line parallel to Bell Road to
the Texada Forest Service Road 5829, Branch 04; thence southwesterly
along the midline of the Texada Forest Service Road 5829, Branch 04,
to the junction of the Texada Forest Service Road 5829, Branch 04, and
Bell Road; thence southeasterly along the midline of Bell Road to a
point 0.1 km southwest of the gas pipeline; thence westerly and
northwesterly along a line parallel to the gas pipeline to a point 0.4
km southeast of Bell Road; thence northwesterly along a line parallel
to Bell Road to the midline of Shelter Point Road 0.4 km southwest of
the junction of Shelter Point Road, Bell Road and Central Road; thence
northerly along a line parallel to Central Road to a point 0.4 km
southwest of the point of commencement; thence northeast 0.4 km to the
point of commencement.


[en. B.C. Reg. 46/89, s. 7; am. B.C. Regs. 205/94, s. 20; 198/2013,
App. 1, s. 1.]






Village of 100 Mile House




99


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
the Village of 100 Mile House within the following described
boundaries:



Commencing at the point of intersection of the southerly boundary of
the B.C. Rail Right of way with the easterly boundary of Lot 2150,
Lillooet Land District; thence in a general easterly and southeasterly
direction along the southerly boundary of the B.C. Rail Right of way
to the point of intersection with the boundary of the Cariboo Highway
in the southwestern corner of Lot 2137, Lillooet Land District; thence
in a general southwesterly direction along the midline of the Cariboo
Highway to the point of intersection with the northerly boundary of an
unnamed road; thence in a general westerly direction along the
northerly boundary of the unnamed road to the point of intersection
with the easterly boundary of the B.C. Hydro transmission line right
of way; thence in a northerly direction along the easterly boundary of
the B.C. Hydro transmission line right of way to the point of
intersection with the northerly boundary of Lot 2150, Lillooet Land
District; thence easterly along the northerly boundary of Lot 2150 to
the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 46/89, s. 7.]





Snootli Creek Park




100


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 5-8 contained
within the following described boundaries:



That portion of the Southwest Quarter of Section 3, Township 2, Range
3, Coast District, northwest of Snootli Creek flowing in a general
northeasterly direction through Section 3, Township 2.

[en. B.C. Reg. 46/89, s. 7.]





Repealed




101


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 204/91, s. 10.]






Repealed




102


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 169/2020, App. 1, s. 2 (a).]






Sea Island




103


That portion of M.U. 2-04 in the Province of British Columbia within
the New Westminster Land District contained within the following
described boundaries:



Commencing at a point on the high water mark at the extreme
southwesterly tip of the Iona Island Sewage Jetty; thence due South to
a point due West of the extreme southwesterly tip of Sea Island;
thence due East to a point on the high water mark at the extreme
southwesterly point of Sea Island; northerly and westerly along the
high water mark on the westerly side of Sea Island, Iona Island
Causeway and Iona Island to a point on the high water mark at the
extreme northeasterly end of the southerly side of the Iona Island
Sewage Jetty; thence southwesterly along the high water mark on the
south side of the Iona Island Sewage Jetty to the point of
commencement

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/89, s. 6.]





Tatlow Road




104


That portion of M.U. 6-09 in the Province of British Columbia
contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing .4 km on either side of the midline of Tatlow Road at Km 13
south of Smithers, thence in a general easterly direction at .4 km on
either side of the midline of Tatlow Road to the point of intersection
with the midline of Chapman Road; thence in a general easterly
direction at .4 km on either side of the midline of Tatlow Road to the
most easterly point on the midline of Tatlow Road and southerly at .4
km on either side of the midline of Chapman Road for 1 km.

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/89, s. 6.]





Dawson Creek Environmental Demonstration Areas




105


Those portions of M.U. 7-20 and M.U. 7-33 in the Province of British
Columbia contained within the following described boundaries:




(a)

Sections 30 and 31, Township 78, Range 14, West of the 6th Meridian,
Peace River Land District; between 0930 hours and 1530 hours daily;




(b)

Sections 2, 11, 12, 13 and that part of Sections 14 and 24 lying south
of Radar Lake Road, Township 77, Range 16, west of the 6th Meridian,
Peace River Land District.


[en. B.C. Reg. 176/89, s. 6; am. B.C. Reg. 175/2010, App. 1, s. 4.]






Babine River




106


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 6-08 which is
contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the point of intersection of the midline of Babine River
and the natural boundary of Nilkitkwa Lake on the northerly shore
thereof; thence in a general northerly direction along the midline of
Babine River to the point of intersection with the midline of
Nilkitkwa River and including all intervening territory for 1 km on
either side of the midline of the said portion of Babine River.

[en. B.C. Reg. 185/90, s. 10.]





Repealed




107


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 169/2020, App. 1, s. 2 (a).]






Repealed




108


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 204/91, s. 11.]







109


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 190/96, s. 5 (c).]






Windermere




110


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 4-25 that is
contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at a point on the natural boundary of Windermere Lake on
the easterly shore thereof at the point of intersection with the
natural boundary of Windermere Creek on the right bank thereof; thence
in a general southerly direction along the natural boundary of
Windermere Lake on the easterly shore thereof to the south boundary of
D.L.8, Kootenay Land District; thence easterly and northerly along the
southerly and easterly boundaries of D.L.8 to the southerly boundary
of Block A, D.L.108; thence westerly along the southerly boundary of
Block A, D.L.108 to the easterly boundary of Highway 93/95 right of
way; thence northerly along the easterly boundaries of Highway 93/95
right of way, Swansea Road right of way and again Highway 93/95 right
of way to the point of intersection with a westerly prolongation of
the northerly boundary of D.L.9001; thence westerly along the said
prolongation, the southerly boundary of the adjacent unnamed road
right of way and a prolongation thereof to the natural boundary of
Windermere River on the right bank thereof; thence in a general
southerly direction along the natural boundary of Windermere River on
the right bank thereof to the intersection with the natural boundary
of Windermere Lake on the easterly shore thereof; thence in a
southerly direction along the natural boundary of Windermere Lake on
the easterly shore thereof to the point of commencement.


[en. B.C. Reg. 204/91, s. 12; am. B.C. Regs. 277/91, Sch. 2, s. 3;
224/92, s. 10.]






Fairmont




111


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 4-25 that is
contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing in the vicinity of Fairmont at the point of intersection of
the midline of Dutch Creek and the easterly boundary of Highway 93/95
right of way; thence in a general southerly direction along the
easterly boundary of Highway 93/95 right of way to the point of
intersection with the south boundary of S.L. 10, D.L. 344, Kootenay
Land District; thence in a general easterly direction along the
southerly boundaries of S.L. 10 and S.L. 9 to the southeast corner of
S.L.9; thence southerly in a straight line to the northeast corner of
S.L.19; thence westerly along the northerly boundary of S.L.19 to the
easterly boundary of Highway 93/95 right of way; thence southerly
along the easterly boundary of Highway 93/95 right of way to the
southerly boundary of S.L.19; thence easterly along the southerly
boundary of S.L.19 and a prolongation thereof to the natural boundary
of Columbia Lake on the westerly shore thereof; thence in a general
northerly direction along the natural boundary of Columbia Lake on the
westerly shore thereof to the point of intersection with an easterly
prolongation of the north boundary of S.L.19; thence easterly in a
straight line to the point of intersection with the natural boundary
of Columbia Lake on the easterly shore thereof at its intersection
with the natural boundary of Warspite Creek on the right bank thereof;
thence in a general northerly direction along the natural boundary of
Columbia Lake on the easterly shore thereof and the natural boundary
of Columbia River on the right bank thereof to the south boundary of
Block P.3043; thence easterly and northerly along the southerly and
easterly boundaries of Block P.3043 to the south boundary of S.L.36;
thence easterly and northerly along the southerly and easterly
boundaries of S.L.36 to the south boundary of S.L.11; thence easterly
and northerly along the southerly and easterly boundaries of S.L.11
and along a northerly prolongation to the south boundary of the
Fairmont Ski Hill area; thence easterly, northerly and westerly along
the southerly, easterly and northerly boundaries of the Fairmont Ski
Hill area to the northerly boundary of S.L.126 at a point adjacent to
its intersection with the midline of Cold Spring Creek; thence
westerly along the northerly boundary of S.L.126 to the southeast
corner of S.L.119; thence northerly and westerly along the easterly
and northerly boundaries of S.L.119 to the northeast corner of
S.L.118; thence westerly along the northerly boundary of S.L.118 and a
prolongation thereof to the natural boundary of Columbia River on the
right bank thereof; thence southerly along the natural boundary of
Columbia River on the right bank thereof to the northerly boundary of
D.L.5352; thence westerly along the northerly boundary of D.L.5352 and
a prolongation thereof to the westerly boundary of Westside Road right
of way; thence southerly along the westerly boundary of Westside Road
right of way and a prolongation thereof to the southerly boundary of
Highway 93/95 right of way; thence westerly along the southerly
boundary of Highway 93/95 right of way to the point of commencement.


[en. B.C. Reg. 204/91, s. 12; am. B.C. Regs. 277/91, Sch. 2, s. 4;
224/92, s. 11.]






Repealed




112


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 235/97, s. 3 (e).]






Fort St. John Sewage Lagoons




113


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 7-33 being
the Northeast 1/4 of Section 19, Township 83, Range 18, West of the
6th Meridian; and the Southwest 1/4 of Section 30, Township 83, Range
18, West of the 6th Meridian.

[en. B.C. Reg. 224/92, s. 12.]





Westcan Terminals




114


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 1-4 in the
vicinity of Cowichan Bay being the area within 25 metres on either
side of the midline of Westcan Terminals Road commencing at the
easterly boundary of Indian Reserve #9 and proceeding easterly along
the said road to its end and including the area 25 metres seaward from
the paved edge of the Westcan Terminals Ltd. port site.

[en. B.C. Reg. 204/91, s. 12.]





Mount Judge Howay Park




115


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 2-8 that is
within the Mount Judge Howay Park boundaries.

[en. B.C. Reg. 204/91, s. 12.]





Fry Creek Recreation Area




116


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 4-19 that is
contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at a point on the midline of Fry Creek approximately 6
kilometres upstream from the point of intersection of the midline of
Fry Creek and the natural boundary of Kootenay Lake on the easterly
shore thereof; thence in a general northeasterly direction upstream
along the midline of Fry Creek to a point approximately 500 m upstream
of the easterly edge of the slide area and including all intervening
territory on either side of Fry Creek within the Fry Creek Canyon
Recreation Area boundaries.

[en. B.C. Reg. 204/91, s. 12.]





Repealed




117


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 211/93, s. 8 (a).]






Central Road




118


That portion of the Province of British Columbia on Texada Island in
M.U. 2-16 contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at a point along the midline of Central Road 2 km northerly
from the junction of the midlines of Shelter Point Road, Bell Road and
Central Road; thence northeast a distance of 25 m; thence northerly
along a line parallel to Central Road approximately 16 km to a point
25 m due North of the Junction of the midlines of Central Road and
Imperial Limestone Road; thence due South 25 m to the midline of
Central Road; thence due South to a point 25 m south of the midline of
Central Road; thence southerly along a line parallel to Central Road
to a point 25 m southwest of the point of commencement; thence
northeast 25 m to the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 205/94, s. 21.]





Lion's Bay




119


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
Lion's Bay contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the point of intersection of the mean low water mark of
Howe Sound and the midline of Magnesia Creek; thence easterly along
the midline of Magnesia Creek and along the easterly prolongation
thereof to the apex of Mt. Harvey; thence in a general easterly,
southerly and westerly direction along the northerly, easterly and
southerly boundaries of the watershed of Harvey Creek to the point of
intersection with the southerly boundary of the watershed of Rundle
Creek; thence westerly along the southerly boundary of the watershed
of Rundle Creek and along the prolongation thereof to the point of
intersection with the mean low water mark of Howe Sound; thence in a
general northerly direction along the mean low water mark of Howe
Sound to the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 224/92, s. 13.]





Tow Hill




120


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in Queen Charlotte
Land District contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the southwest corner of Lot 228, that Lot being Tow Hill
Provincial Park; thence easterly and northerly along the southerly and
easterly boundaries of Tow Hill Provincial Park to the point of
intersection with the mean low water mark of McIntyre Bay at the mouth
of Hiellen River; thence in a general northerly and westerly direction
along the mean low water mark of McIntyre Bay to the point of
intersection with the prolongation of the westerly boundary of Tow
Hill Provincial Park; thence southerly to the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 224/92, s. 13.]





Brenda Mines




121


That portion of M.U. 8-08 in the Province of British Columbia in the
vicinity of the District of Peachland, Osoyoos Division of Yale Land
District, which is contained within the following described
boundaries:



Commencing at a point 917 m (3 000 feet) north of MacDonald Lake at
claim post ally 15 and 16; thence southerly between MacDonald Lake and
Brenda Lake 2.8 km (1.75 miles) to the BC Hydro transmission line,
near claim post McEwer No. 32 and 33; thence southwesterly along the
BC Hydro Transmission line approximately 7.7 km (4.78 miles); thence
N. 25° E 2.4 km (1.5 miles) over the ridge on the south side of
MacDonald Creek to claim post Bill No. 27 and 28 located 800 m (0.5
mile) east of the tailings dam; thence northwest approximately 7.2 km
(4.5 miles) to the east end (outlet) of Long Lake; thence west to the
ridge north of MacDonald Lake to claim post ally No. 15 and 16; thence
southerly to the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 151/2006, s. 4 (b).]





Quinsam Coal Mine




122


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 1-10 that is
contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at 49° 57' 00" north latitude and 125° 30' 00" west
longitude; thence due East to 126° 26' 30" west longitude; thence due
South to 49° 54' 30" north latitude; thence due West to 125° 30' 00"
west longitude; thence due North to the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 211/93, s. 8 (b).]





Selkirk




123


That portion of M.U. 4-7 and M.U. 4-8 which is contained within the
following described boundaries:



Commencing at the confluence of Summit Creek and Bayonne Creek and
proceeding upstream along the southerly natural boundary of Summit
Creek to its intersection with the boundary of Stagleap Park; thence
proceeding westerly, northerly and southwesterly along the boundary of
Stagleap Park to the height of land which forms the easterly watershed
boundary of Lost Creek; thence northerly, westerly and northerly along
the height of land which forms the easterly and northerly boundary of
the watershed of Lost Creek to the height of land which forms the
easterly watershed boundary of Billings Creek; thence northwesterly
along the height of land to the mouth of Billings Creek; thence
upstream along the northerly and westerly natural boundary of Sheep
Creek to the southerly boundary of Darkwoods Forest Lot 2381, Sublot
1, thence proceeding easterly along the boundary for approximately 5.4
km to the unnamed tributary of Next Creek which has, at its head, an
unnamed lake which is approximately 750 m long and 350 m wide; thence
proceeding northerly along the unnamed creek to Blazed Creek Road;
thence proceeding northeasterly, easterly and southeasterly along
Blazed Creek Road to the southern boundary of Darkwoods Forest Lot
2381, Sublot 1, thence proceeding southwesterly up the ridge and along
the height of land to the summit of John Bull mountain, thence
proceeding southeasterly along the height of land which forms part of
the northeasterly watershed boundary of Bayonne Creek to the height of
land which forms the southwesterly watershed boundary of Placer Creek;
thence proceeding southeasterly along the height of land to the mouth
of Placer Creek, thence proceeding westerly along the southerly
natural boundary of Summit Creek to the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 211/93, s. 8 (b).]





Gillies Bay and Shelter Point Roads




124


Those portions of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
Texada Island in M.U. 2-16 within 0.2 km of either side of the midline
of the following Texada Island roads:




(a)

Gillies Bay Road between its junction with Blubber Bay Road and
Shelter Point Road;




(b)

Shelter Point Road between its junction with Central Road and its
terminus at Mouat Bay;




(c)

Blubber Bay Road between its junction with Gillies Bay Road and its
terminus at Blubber Bay;




(d)

Crescent Bay Road between its junction with Blubber Bay Road and its
terminus.


[en. B.C. Reg. 205/94, s. 22; am. B.C. Reg. 235/97, s. 3 (f).]






Comox Harbour




125


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 1-6 in the
vicinity of Comox contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the most westerly point on Goose Spit; thence
southeasterly in a straight line to the most northerly point on
Gartley Point; thence in a general northwesterly direction following
the mean high water mark of Comox Harbour to the mouth of the
Courtenay River; thence northeasterly in a straight line across the
mouth of the Courtenay River; thence in a southeasterly, southwesterly
and westerly direction following the mean high water mark of Comox
Harbour to the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 205/94, s. 22.]





Houston Community Forest




126


That portion of the Province of British Columbia within M.U. 6-09 in
the vicinity of Houston which is contained within the following
described boundaries:



Commencing at the southwest corner of Lot 2092; thence northerly along
the western boundary of said Lot to the southeast corner of Lot 2102A;
thence westerly along the southern boundaries of Lot 2102A and Lot
2093 to the point of intersection with the eastern boundary of the
watershed of that unnamed creek flowing northwesterly through Lot
2093; thence in a general southerly direction along said watershed
boundary to the point of intersection with the eastern boundary of the
watershed of Peacock Creek; thence in a general southerly direction
along said watershed boundary of Peacock Creek to the point of
intersection with the southern boundary of the watershed of
Silverthorne Lake; thence in a general easterly direction along said
watershed boundary to the point of intersection with the southwestern
boundary of the watershed of that unnamed creek flowing southeasterly
into Buck Creek within Lot 5206; thence in a general southeasterly
direction along said watershed boundary, and along the projection
thereof, to a point, within Lot 5205, 200 metres east of the eastern
natural boundary of Buck Creek; thence in a general northerly
direction along a line 200 metres distant from and parallel to the
eastern natural boundary of Buck Creek to the point of intersection
with the eastern boundary of Lot 2499A; thence southerly along said
boundary of Lot 2499A to the southeast corner thereof; thence westerly
along the southern boundaries of Lots 2499A, 2097, 2091 and 2092 to
the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 322/95, s. 3 (d).]





Willow Heights Wildlife Reserve




127


That portion of the Province of British Columbia within M.U. 8-06 in
the Kamloops Division of Yale which is contained within the following
described boundaries:



Commencing at the westernmost point of the northern boundary of Lot
1855; thence southerly along the western boundary of Lot 1855 and
along the western boundary of Lot 1912 to the point of intersection
with the eastern boundary of the right of way of Highway 5A; thence
southerly along said right of way boundary to the point of
intersection with the southern boundary of Lot 4751; thence easterly
along said southern boundary to the southeast corner of Lot 4751;
thence northerly along the eastern boundary of said Lot and along the
eastern boundary of Lot 1912 to the point of intersection with the
southern boundary of Lot 1855; thence easterly along said southern
boundary to the southeast corner of Lot 1855; thence northerly along
the eastern boundary and westerly along the northern boundary of said
Lot to the point of commencement; including all lands thus encompassed
excepting any private lands; all within the Kamloops Division of Yale
District.

[en. B.C. Reg. 322/95, s. 3 (d).]





Upper Carmi Road




128


That portion of the Province of British Columbia within M.U. 8-09 in
the vicinity of the City of Penticton which is contained within the
following described boundaries:



Commencing at the southeast corner of SL 51; thence northerly along
the western boundary of SL 17 to the northwest corner of said Lot;
thence easterly along the northern boundary, northerly along the
western boundary and easterly along the northern boundary of said Lot,
to the northeast corner thereof; thence southerly along the eastern
boundary of said Lot to the southeast corner thereof; thence westerly
along the southern boundary of said Lot to the south-southwest corner
thereof; thence along the prolongation of said southern boundary to
the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 190/96, s. 5 (d).]





Dokie




129


That portion of M.U.s 7-22 and 7-31 in the Province of British
Columbia in the vicinity of Chetwynd contained within the following
described boundaries:



Commencing at the southeast corner of District Lot 2456, Peace River
Land District; thence southerly along the western boundary of District
Lot 2072 to the point of intersection with the natural boundary of
Pine River on the left bank thereof; thence in a general southerly
direction along said natural boundary to the point of intersection
with the northern boundary of District Lot 2474; thence westerly along
said northern boundary, and along the prolongation thereof, to the
point of intersection with the western boundary of the right of way of
B.C. Railway; thence in a general northeasterly direction along said
right of way boundary to the northeast corner of District Lot 2750;
thence westerly along the northern boundary of said Lot, and along the
prolongation thereof, to the southwest corner of the Provincial
Reserve; thence northerly along the western boundary of said Reserve
to the point of intersection with the southern boundary of District
Lot 2267; thence westerly along said southern boundary and northerly
along the western boundary of said Lot to the southeast corner of
District Lot 592; thence westerly, northerly and easterly along the
southern, western and northern boundaries of District Lot 592 to the
northeast corner thereof; thence northerly along the western boundary
of District Lot 2200 and easterly along the northern boundary of said
Lot to the southwest corner of District Lot 2550; thence northerly
along the western boundaries of District Lots 2550, 2455 and 2730A to
the northern boundary of District Lot 2730A; thence easterly along
said northern boundary to the point of intersection with the western
boundary of the right of way of Highway 97; thence in a general
northerly direction along said right of way boundary to the point of
intersection with the prolongation of the southern boundary of
District Lot 2456; thence easterly along said prolongation and along
said southern boundary to the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 190/96, s. 5 (e).]





Roberts Bank Superport and Tsawwassen Ferry Terminal Causeways




130


Those portions of British Columbia in the Municipality of Delta,
within the following described boundaries:




(1)

Commencing at the point of intersection of the centerline of 27B
Avenue, also referred to as Deltaport Way, and the western flood
protection dyke at the northerly extremity of the Roberts Bank
Superport Causeway; thence northwesterly along the high water mark of
the dyke for a distance of 150 metres measured in a straight line
perpendicular to the axis of the causeway at that point; thence
parallel to the high water mark contour of the banks of the Roberts
Bank Superport Causeway and loading pods at a distance 150 m seaward
of the high water mark, measured in a straight line perpendicular to
the axis of the causeway, in southwesterly and northwesterly
directions to a point 150 metres south of the high water mark of the
southernmost extremity of the Deltaport loading pods of the Terminal;
thence northeasterly in a straight line to the most southerly of the
two navigation towers located approximately 750 metres offshore from
the south side of the causeway; thence, in a straight line, following
a line perpendicular to the axis of the causeway and being the
shortest distance to the causeway at that point, to a point 150 metres
southeast of the high water mark of the south shore of the causeway,
measured in a straight line perpendicular to the axis of the causeway
at that point; thence in a northeasterly direction, seaward and
parallel to the contour of the high water mark of the causeway, to a
point on the high water mark of the western flood protection dyke 150
metres southeast of the high water mark of the causeway; thence,
following the high water mark of the dyke to the point of intersection
of the center line of 27B Avenue and the western flood protection
dyke, being the point of commencement, and




(2)

Commencing at the extreme southernmost corner of the Tsawwassen Indian
Reserve; thence in a straight line in a southerly direction, to a
point on the high water mark of the western flood protection dyke
located 150 metres in a southeasterly direction perpendicular from the
high water mark of the Tsawwassen Ferry Terminal Causeway; thence
following a line seaward and parallel to the high water mark contours
of the causeway and terminal loading pod, which is 150 metres
southeast of the high water mark and being the shortest distance to
the high water mark at any point, in a southwesterly direction, to a
point located 150 metres seaward and southeast of the high water mark
of the extreme southernmost point of the Tsawwassen Ferry Terminal
loading pod; thence in a straight line in a southeasterly direction,
to the easternmost point on the southern edge of the wave protection
rock wall; thence to the extreme westernmost end of the wave
protection rock wall, being marked by a navigation light beacon;
thence in a northwesterly direction, following the line of navigation
light beacon towers to the beacon tower located immediately southwest
of the westernmost point of the terminal loading pod; thence in a
straight line to a point perpendicular to the axis of the causeway at
any point, to the intersection of the westerly boundary of the
Tsawwassen Indian Reserve; thence in a southerly direction for
approximately 350 metres following the westerly boundary of the
Tsawwassen Indian Reserve, to the extreme southwesterly corner of the
Tsawwassen Indian Reserve, being the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 225/98, s. 4 (c).]





Repealed




131-132


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 239/2018, App. 1, s. 4 (e).]






Buckley Bay




133


That portion of M.U. 1-06 in the vicinity of Buckley Bay, Nelson Land
District, within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the northwest corner of Section 2, Lot 1 (Base Flat) on
the mean high water mark of Lot 1; thence due North to a point 450
metres offshore; thence in an easterly and southerly direction
maintaining a distance of 450 metres from the mean high water mark of
Lot 1 to a point 450 metres offshore from the southeast corner of Lot
1 which is also the northeast corner of Lot 44; thence in a southerly
and westerly direction maintaining a distance of 450 metres offshore
from the mean high water mark of Lot 44 to a point on the east shore
of Vancouver Island; thence generally northerly along the mean high
water mark on the east shore of Vancouver Island to the point of
commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 221/2005, s. 3 (e).]





Nanoose Bay




134


That portion of Management Unit 1-05 in the Province of British
Columbia in the vicinity of Nanoose Harbour, Nanaimo Land District,
which is contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the mean high water mark at the southeast corner of the
Qualicum National Wildlife Area; thence generally easterly maintaining
a distance of 400 m from the mean high water mark to a point that is
400 m directly southwest of the intersection of the mean high water
mark and the Department of Defence property line; thence directly
northeast to the mean high water mark; thence generally west following
the mean high water mark to the northeast corner of the Qualicum
National Wildlife Area; thence south along the easterly boundary of
the Qualicum National Wildlife Area to the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 151/2006, s. 4 (c).]





Cowichan River Park




135


That portion of M.U. 1-04 being within 100 m of the high water mark of
the Cowichan River from a point starting on the river immediately
north of the Holt Creek Trailhead, then upstream generally west and
north along the Cowichan River to the intersection with the
Municipality of Lake Cowichan.

[en. B.C. Reg. 175/2010, App. 1, s. 5.]





Crawford Bay




136


That portion of M.U. 4-06 in the vicinity of Crawford Bay contained
within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the point of intersection of the northerly boundary of
the right of way of Highway 3A and the westerly natural boundary of
Beaver Creek; thence southerly along the westerly natural boundary of
Beaver Creek to the point of intersection with the midline of Peters
Road; thence southerly along the midline of Peters Road to the point
of intersection with the southerly boundary of Sublot 101, Kootenay
Land District; thence easterly along the southerly boundary and along
the southerly boundary of Lot 2335 to the point of intersection with
the natural boundary of Crawford Bay; thence in a general easterly
direction along the natural boundary of Crawford Bay on the northerly
shore thereof to the point least distant from the junction of Highway
3A and Crawford Creek Road; thence easterly to the point of
intersection with the easterly boundary of the right of way of
Crawford Creek Road; thence northerly along the easterly boundary to
the point of intersection with the westerly boundary of the right of
way of Wadds Road; thence southerly along the westerly boundary to the
point of intersection with the northerly boundary of the right of way
of Highway 3A; thence westerly along the northerly boundary to the
point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 175/2010, App. 1, s. 5.]





White-Moscow Forest Service Road




137


That portion of M.U. 4-24 within 50 m of either side of the
White-Moscow Forest Service Road from the junction with Whiteswan
Forest Service Road to the junction with the Moscow-Home Basin
Campground road.

[en. B.C. Reg. 130/2016, App. 1, s. 4.]





Whiteswan Forest Service Road




138


That portion of M.U. 4-24 within 50 m of either side of the Whiteswan
Forest Service Road from Inlet Creek Campground to the junction with
the White-Moscow Forest Service Road.

[en. B.C. Reg. 130/2016, App. 1, s. 4.]





Hudson Bay Mountain/Smithers Community Forest




139


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 6-9 shown
outlined in red on the attached Map No. 5-139/20.

[en. B.C. Reg. 169/2020, App. 1, s. 2 (b).]



Schedule 5.1

[en. B.C. Reg. 135/2017, App. 1, s. 2.]

No Shooting Areas — Specified Crown Land


(Section 7.1)





Definition




1


In this Schedule,
"spur road"
, in relation to a particular road, means the following:




(a)

a road that begins at a junction with the particular road and ends at
a point other than a junction with another road;




(b)

a road that begins at a junction with a spur road of the particular
road and ends at a point other than a junction with another road.






Silver Skagit Forest Service Road




2


That portion of M.U. 2-2 being all Crown land within 400 m of the
midline of the Silver Skagit Forest Service Road from the crossing at
Eureka Creek to the boundary of Skagit Valley Provincial Park.






Liumchen East Forest Service Road etc.




3


Those portions of M.U. 2-3 being all Crown land within 400 m of the
midline of the following roads:




(a)

Liumchen East Forest Service Road;




(b)

Little Tamihi Forest Service Road;




(c)

Liumchen West Forest Service Road;




(d)

Little Tamihi 1000 Forest Service Road.

[am. B.C. Reg. 115/2018, App. 1, s. 2.]





McGuire and Tamihi Creek Forest Service Roads




4


Those portions of M.U. 2-3 being all Crown land within 400 m of the
midline of the following roads:




(a)

McGuire Forest Service Road from the junction with the Tamihi Creek
Forest Service Road to the crossing of an unnamed creek approximately
3 km easterly along the McGuire Forest Service Road;




(b)

Tamihi Creek Forest Service Road from the junction with the Liumchen
Forest Service Road to the crossing of Tamihi Creek approximately 6 km
southerly and easterly along the Tamihi Creek Forest Service Road.

[am. B.C. Reg. 115/2018, App. 1, s. 3.]





Bench, Foley and Nesakwatch Forest Service Roads




5

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), those portions of M.U. 2-3 being all Crown
land within 400 m of the midline of the following roads:




(a)

Bench Forest Service Road;




(b)

Foley Forest Service Road from the junction with the Bench Forest
Service Road to the crossing of an unnamed stream approximately 1 km
past a point due South of the most westerly point of Foley Lake;




(c)

Nesakwatch Forest Service Road from the junction with the Centre
Forest Service Road to a point 2 km southerly along the Nesakwatch
Forest Service Road.




(2)

The areas set out in subsection (1) do not include any areas described
in section 16 of Schedule 5.

[am. B.C. Reg. 115/2018, App. 1, s. 4.]





Jones Lake and Lorenzetta Forest Service Roads




6


Those portions of M.U. 2-3 being all Crown land within 400 m of the
midline of the following roads, including any spur roads:




(a)

Jones Lake Forest Service Road;




(b)

Lorenzetta Forest Service Road.

[am. B.C. Reg. 115/2018, App. 1, s. 5.]





Florence Lake Forest Service Road




7


That portion of M.U. 2-8 being all Crown land within 400 m of the
midline of Florence Lake Forest Service Road from the northern
boundary of the District of Mission northerly to the terminus of
Florence Lake Forest Service Road, including any spur roads.






Lost Creek Forest Service Road etc.




8


Those portions of M.U. 2-8 being all Crown land within 400 m of the
midline of the following roads, including any spur roads:




(a)

Lost Creek Forest Service Road;




(b)

Terepocki Forest Service Road;




(c)

Lease Forest Service Road;




(d)

Murdo Forest Service Road;




(e)

Mount Kettley Forest Service Road;




(f)

Salsbury Forest Service Road.

[am. B.C. Reg. 115/2018, App. 1, s. 6.]





Hatzic




9


Those portions of M.U. 2-8, in the vicinity of the District of
Mission, being all Crown land within 400 m of the midline of the
portions highlighted in red of the roads on Map No. 5.1-1/17 in
Schedule 15.






Norrish Creek watershed




10


Those portions of M.U. 2-8 being all Crown land within 400 m of the
midline of any road within the Norrish Creek watershed.






Francis Lake, Sts'ailes (West) and Weaver Lake Forest Service Roads




11


Those portions of M.U. 2-19 being all Crown land within 400 m of the
midline of the following roads:




(a)

Francis Lake Forest Service Road, including any spur roads;




(b)

Sts'ailes (West) Forest Service Road from the junction with the Weaver
Lake Forest Service Road to the Davidson Creek Bridge;




(c)

Weaver Lake Forest Service Road, including any spur roads.

[am. B.C. Reg. 115/2018, App. 1, s. 7.]





Chehalis Forest Service Road




12


That portion of M.U. 2-19 being all Crown land within 400 m of the
midline of Chehalis Forest Service Road from the junction with the
Statlu Forest Service Road to the northern boundary of the area
described in section 33 of Schedule 5.

[am. B.C. Reg. 115/2018, App. 1, s. 8.]





Squamish River Valley




13


Those portions of M.U. 2-6 that are




(a)

within 400 m of the midline of any road highlighted in red on the
attached map 'Closed Area 5.1-13/22',




(b)

within 800 m to the west and 400 m to the east of the midline of any
road highlighted in orange on the attached map 'Closed Area
5.1-13/22', or




(c)

within 600 m of the midline of any road highlighted in purple on the
attached map 'Closed Area 5.1-13/22'.

[en. B.C. Reg. 157/2022, App. 3, s. 4.]





Chehalis Fleetwood




14


Those portions of M.U. 2-19 that are




(a)

within 400 m of the midline of any road highlighted in yellow on the
attached map 'Closed Area 5.1-14/22', or




(b)

within 400 m of the high water mark of any stream, creek or river
highlighted in yellow on the attached map 'Closed Area 5.1-14/22'.

[en. B.C. Reg. 157/2022, App. 3, s. 4.]



Schedule 6


Seasonal No Shooting Areas


(Section 7)





Repealed




1


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 46/89, s. 8.]






Repealed




2


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 325/87, s. 2.]






Cultus Lake




3


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
the Town of Chilliwack, New Westminster District, which is contained
within the following described boundaries:


Those waters of Cultus Lake to the maximum high water mark during the
period of February 1 to September 30.

[en. B.C. Reg. 162/87, s. 30.]





Garibaldi Park




4


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U.s 2-06, 2-07,
2-08 and 2-09 known as Garibaldi Park, during the period January 1 to
August 31.

[en. B.C. Reg. 162/87, s. 31.]





Repealed




5


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 167/88, s. 8.]






Osoyoos Oxbows




6


That portion of M.U.8-01 in the Province of British Columbia contained
within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the point of intersection at approximately 119° 30' 40"
west longitude and 49° 04' 30" north latitude of the natural boundary
of Osoyoos Lake on the northerly shore thereof and the midline of the
main oxbow east of Okanagan River channel; thence in a general
westerly direction along the natural boundary of Osoyoos Lake on the
northerly shore thereof to the point of intersection with the midline
of the main oxbow west of the Okanagan River channel; thence in a
general northerly, westerly and again northerly direction along the
midline of the said oxbow to the point of intersection with the
midline of Okanagan River channel; thence northerly along the midline
of Okanagan River channel to a point approximately 350 m past the
first Sluice Gate; thence N 50° E to the point of intersection with
the midline of the main oxbow east of the Okanagan River channel;
thence in a general northerly, easterly, again northerly and westerly
direction along the midline of the said oxbow to the point of
intersection with the midline of Okanagan River channel; thence more
or less west in a straight line to the point of intersection with the
midline of the main oxbow west of Okanagan River channel; thence in a
general westerly and northerly direction along the midline of the said
oxbow to the point of intersection with the midline of Okanagan River
channel approximately 50 m past the second Sluice Gate; thence
northerly along the midline of Okanagan River channel for
approximately 500 m; thence N 65° E to the point of intersection with
the 1 000 m elevational contour; thence in a general southerly
direction along the 1 000 m elevation contour for approximately 600 m;
thence southerly in a straight line to a point on the midline of the
power transmission line right of way at 1 000 m elevation; thence more
or less east in a straight line to a point at approximately 119° 32'
15" west longitude and 49° 06' 00" north latitude; thence S 50° E
approximately 650 m to a point on the 1 000 m elevational contour;
thence more or less east in a straight line to the adjacent southwest
corner of Indian Reserve 1 at approximately 119° 31' 20" west
longitude and 49° 05' 48" north latitude; thence S 45° E approximately
600 m; thence due South to the point of intersection with the midline
of the main oxbow east of Okanagan River channel; thence in a general
easterly and southerly direction along the midline of the said oxbow
to the point of commencement during the period of March 1 to September
30.

[en. B.C. Reg. 176/89, s. 6.]





Cowichan Bay




7


That portion of British Columbia in the vicinity of Cowichan Bay
contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the mean high water mark of Cowichan Bay at the most
southerly extremity of Skinner Point; thence in a straight line to the
point of intersection with the mean high water mark of Cowichan Bay at
the most northerly extremity of the southerly shore thereof, east of
Cowichan Bay Village; thence in a general westerly direction along the
mean high water mark a distance of approximately 600 metres to a point
due North of Cowichan Bay Road; thence due South to the northerly
boundary of the right of way of Cowichan Bay Road; thence in a general
westerly and northerly direction along the northerly boundary and
along the easterly boundary of the right of way to the point of
intersection with the easterly boundary of the right of way of
Tzuhalem Road; thence in a general northerly direction along the
easterly boundary to the point of intersection with the southerly
boundary of the right of way of Khenipsen Road; thence in a general
easterly direction along the southerly boundary to the most easterly
extremity thereof; thence due South to the mean high water mark of
Cowichan Bay; thence in a general easterly direction along the mean
high water mark of Cowichan Bay to the point of commencement,
including all intervening territory but excluding all Indian Reserve
Lands, during the period March 11 to the Saturday following Labour
Day, except those areas as described in sections 21 and 114 of
Schedule 5 (No Shooting Areas).


[en. B.C. Reg. 224/92, s. 14; am. B.C. Regs. 205/94, s. 23; 219/2000,
s. 6.]




Schedule 7


No Hunting Areas


(Section 8)





Repealed




1-2


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 219/2000, s. 7.]






Repealed




3


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 162/87, s. 32.]






Repealed




4


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 194/99, s. 6 (c).]






Bowen Island




5


That portion of M.U. 2-16 being Bowen Island, within 150 m of any
public highway, school building, school yard, public park, playground,
church, workshop, place of business, dwelling house or farm building.

[am. B.C. Reg. 459/90, s. 3.]





Lot 495 N.W.D.




6


That portion of M.U. 2-4 being Lot 495, New Westminster District.






Murtle Lake Nature Conservancy




7


That portion of M.U. 3-45 known as the Murtle Lake Nature Conservancy
Area.






Repealed




8


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 162/87, s. 34.]






Repealed




9


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 190/96, s. 6 (a).]






Repealed




10-12


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 162/87, ss. 35 to 37.]






Mount Assiniboine Park




13


That portion of M.U. 4-25 which is part of Mount Assiniboine Park
contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the summit of Mount Assiniboine and proceeding northerly
along the height of land to Sunburst Peak; thence proceeding northerly
in a straight line to the west end of Cerulean Lake where the
Wedgewood Lake and Ferro Pass trails intersect; thence northerly along
the Ferro Pass trail to the height of land which divides the drainages
of Elizabeth Creek and the Mitchell River; thence proceeding
northeasterly along said height of land to a point due West of the
summit of Cave Mountain; thence proceeding in a straight line to Cave
Mountain; thence proceeding southerly along the British
Columbia-Alberta border to the point of commencement.






Repealed




14


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 309/88, s. 2.]






Tweedsmuir Park




15


That portion of M.U. 5-11, within the boundaries of Tweedsmuir Park,
0.4 km either side of the centre line of Highway 20 between Young
Creek and the westerly boundary of Tweedsmuir Park.






Repealed




16


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 205/94, s. 24.]






Repealed




17


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 190/96, s. 6 (a).]






Repealed




18-19


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 167/88, s. 9.]






Repealed




20


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 162/87, s. 39.]






Atlin Park




21


Those portions of M.U.s 6-25 and 6-27 contained within the following
described boundaries:



Commencing at the confluence of O'Donnel River and the mean high water
mark of Atlin Lake; thence easterly along O'Donnel River to a point
one kilometre perpendicularly distant outwards from the mean high
water mark of Atlin Lake; thence generally southerly, westerly and
northerly parallel to and one kilometre perpendicularly distant
outwards from the mean high water mark of Atlin Lake to a point due
East of Atlin Mountain; thence due East to the boundary of M.U. 6-25;
thence southerly along the boundary of M.U. 6-25 to the boundary of
Atlin Park; thence easterly to the point of commencement.






Repealed




22


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 167/88, s. 10.]






Repealed




23


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 204/85, s. 3.]






Repealed




24


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 167/88, s. 11.]






Repealed




25


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 189/84, s. 4.]






Repealed




26


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 109/85, s. 4 (a).]






Provincial Parks




27

(1)


Carp Lake Park — That portion of M.U. 7-24, in the vicinity of Prince
George, being all the area 0.5 km of either side of the centre line of
the Carp Lake Park access road.




(2)

Mount Robson Park — That portion of M.U. 7-1 contained within the
following described boundaries:


Commencing at the junction of Swiftcurrent Creek and the Fraser River;
thence northerly along the height of land separating the drainages of
Swiftcurrent Creek from the drainage of the Fraser and Robson rivers
to Mount Philips on the B.C./Alberta Boundary; thence southeasterly
along said boundary to Lynx Mountain; thence southwesterly along the
height of land separating the drainages of the Robson River from the
drainages of Resplendent Creek and the Fraser River to the junction of
the Robson River and the Fraser River; thence downstream along the
Fraser River to the point of commencement.




(3)

Moose Marsh — That portion of M.U. 7-1 being east of Thunder Creek,
south of Highway 16, west of Sleeper Creek and Grant Brook and north
of a line drawn 2 km perpendicular and parallel to the southerly
natural boundaries of Moose Lake and the Fraser River.

[am. B.C. Reg. 109/85, s. 4 (b).]





Repealed




28


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 109/85, s. 4 (a).]






Repealed




29


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 189/2002, s. 2.]






Repealed




30


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 162/87, s. 40.]






Repealed




31


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 162/87, s. 41.]






Repealed




32


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 162/87, s. 42.]






Tweedsmuir Park




33


Those portions of M.U.s 5-10, 5-11, 6-01 and 6-02 contained within the
following described boundaries:




(1)

Commencing at a point on the easterly boundary of Tweedsmuir
Provincial Park, said point lying 1 km due North of the natural
boundary of Tetachuck Lake on the northerly shore thereof; thence in a
general southwesterly, westerly and northwesterly direction along a
line 1 km inland of the natural boundaries of Tetachuck Lake, Redfern
Rapids and Eutsuk Lake to the point of intersection with the natural
boundary of Whitesail Lake on the southerly shore thereof; thence in a
general westerly direction along the natural boundaries of Whitesail
Lake and Little Whitesail Lake to the point of intersection with the
midline of McCuish Creek; thence in a general southwesterly direction
along the midline of McCuish Creek and a prolongation thereof to the
point of intersection with the easterly boundary of the watershed of
Sias Creek; thence in a general southeasterly direction along the
easterly boundaries of the watersheds of Gamsby River, Kimsquit River
and Sakumtha River to the point of intersection with a prolongation of
the midline of Chezko River; thence in a general northeasterly
direction along the midline of Chezko River to a point 1 km due South
of the natural boundary of Eutsuk Lake on the southerly shore thereof;
thence in a general easterly direction along a line 1 km south of the
natural boundaries of Eutsuk Lake, Redfern Rapids and Tetachuck Lake
on the southerly shores thereof to the point of intersection with the
easterly boundary of Tweedsmuir Park; thence northerly in a straight
line to the point of commencement;




(2)

Commencing on the westerly boundary of Tweedsmuir Park at the point of
intersection of the midlines of Dean River and Takia River; thence in
a general easterly direction along the midline of Takia River to the
point of intersection with the midline of Kohasganko Creek; thence in
a general easterly direction along the midline of Kohasganko Creek to
a point in Lot 698, Coast Land District Range 3 where Kohasganko Creek
turns and flows in a general westerly direction; thence northeasterly
in a straight line to the point of intersection with the easterly
boundary of Tweedsmuir Park; thence in a general southerly direction
along the easterly boundary of Tweedsmuir Park to the point of
intersection with the midline of Highway 20; thence in a general
westerly and southwesterly direction along the midline of Highway 20
to a point next to benchmark 3907 Coast Land District Range 3; thence
in a general westerly direction along the southerly boundary of the
watershed of Young Creek to the apex of King mountain; thence in a
general westerly and southerly direction along the southerly and
easterly boundaries of the main tributary of Burnt Bridge Creek to the
point of intersection with the westerly boundary of Tweedsmuir Park;
thence in a general northerly direction along the westerly boundary of
Tweedsmuir Park to the point of commencement;




(3)

Commencing at the point of intersection of the midline of Hotnarko
River and the easterly boundary of Tweedsmuir Park; thence in a
general southerly, westerly and northerly direction along the
easterly, southerly and westerly boundaries of Tweedsmuir Park to the
point of intersection with the midline of an unnamed stream flowing
easterly into Talchako River east of Melikan mountain; thence
southeasterly in a straight line to the apex of Caribou Mountain;
thence northeasterly in a straight line to the apex of Mount Marvin;
thence northeasterly in a straight line to the point of intersection
of the midlines of Atnarko River and Hotnarko River; thence in a
general northeasterly direction along the midline of Hotnarko River to
the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 167/88, s. 9.]





Golden Bear Access Road




34


That portion of M.U. 6-22 and M.U. 6-26 contained within the following
described boundaries:


Within 2 km on either side of the midline of the access road to the
Golden Bear Mine from its intersection with the unnamed road between
Dease Lake and Telegraph Creek to the Golden Bear Mine Site.

[en. B.C. Reg. 46/89, s. 9.]





Creston Valley Wildlife Management Area




35


Those portions of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 4-7 which
are contained within the following described boundaries:




(1)

Commencing at the point of intersection of the westerly boundary of L
9269, Kootenay Land District and the midline of Summit Creek; thence
northerly and easterly along the westerly and northerly boundaries of
L 9269 to the northeast corner thereof; thence northerly approximately
0.65 km (0.4 mi.) along the easterly boundary of L 8782 and a
prolongation thereof to a point at approximately 49° 09' 01" north
latitude; thence S 47° 30' E approximately 1 km; thence more or less
south in a straight line to the adjacent bend in dyke #1 of Leach Lake
and continuing southerly along a prolongation of that line to the
point of intersection with the midline of Summit Creek; thence S 50° W
approximately 610 m (2 000 ft.) to the point of intersection with
the easterly boundary of Highway 3 right of way; thence in a general
northerly direction along the easterly boundary of Highway 3 right of
way to the point of intersection with the westerly boundary of L 9269;
thence northerly along the westerly boundary of L 9269 to the point of
commencement;




(2)

Commencing at the point of intersection of the southerly boundary of
Highway 3 right of way and the easterly boundary of Old Kootenay River
Channel; thence in a general southerly direction along the easterly
boundary of Old Kootenay River Channel to a point due East of the
southerly boundary of dyke #3; thence due West to the point of
intersection with the southerly boundary of dyke #3; thence in a
general westerly and northerly direction along the southerly boundary
of dyke #3 and a prolongation thereof to the point of intersection
with the easterly boundary of West Creston Road right of way; thence
in a general northerly direction along the easterly boundary of West
Creston Road right of way to the point of intersection with the
southerly boundary of Highway 3 right of way; thence in a general
southeasterly direction along the southerly boundary of Highway 3
right of way to the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 185/90, s. 11.]





Kakwa Recreation Area




36


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 7-19 which is
contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at Mile Post 25 on the British Columbia/Alberta boundary
north of Intersection Mountain; thence due South along the British
Columbia/Alberta boundary to the point of intersection with the
southerly boundary of the watershed of Sheep Creek; thence in a
general westerly and northerly direction along the southerly and
westerly boundaries of the watershed of Sheep Creek and Cecilia Creek
and Kakwa River to Mount Hanigton; thence in a general northerly and
easterly direction along the northerly boundary of the watershed of
Kakwa River to Mount Minnes; thence easterly to the point of
commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 185/90, s. 11.]





Silver Star Recreation Area




37


Those portions of M.U.s 8-22, 8-25 and 8-26 in the vicinity of Vernon
being the Silver Star Recreation Area that are outlined in red on the
attached Map No. 7-3/18.

[en. B.C. Reg. 115/2018, App. 1, s. 9.]





Sunshine Meadows




38


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 4-25 that is
contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing on the northerly boundary of the watershed of Larix Creek
at the apex of Brewster Rock on the B.C./Alberta boundary; thence in a
general westerly and southerly direction along the northerly and
westerly boundaries of the watershed of Larix Creek to a point on the
westerly boundary of the watershed of Larix Creek at approximately
2 135 m (7 000 ft) elevation; thence more or less southeast
in a straight line to the most adjacent point at approximately
2 345 m (7 700 ft) elevation on the easterly boundary of the
watershed of Larix Creek; thence in a general southerly and easterly
direction at 2 345 m (7 700 ft) elevation to the most
southeasterly point thereof in the vicinity of Quartz Hill; thence
easterly in a straight line to the point of intersection with the
easterly boundary of the watershed of North Simpson River; thence in a
general northerly direction along the easterly boundary of the
watershed of North Simpson River to the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 204/91, s. 13.]





Cody Caves




39


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 4-18 being
all Crown land and land covered by water in Kootenay Land District
contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at a point on the eastern boundary of Lot 6489, said point
being 201.2 m south of the northeast corner of said Lot 6489; thence
due West 201.2 m; thence due North 804.7 m; thence due East 724.2 m
more or less to the westerly limit of the right of way for the
Kootenay Forest Products logging road; thence southerly along the said
westerly limit to a point due East of the point of commencement;
thence due West 603.5 m more or less to the point of commencement; the
whole containing 63 hectares, more or less.

[en. B.C. Reg. 204/91, s. 13.]





Norbury Lake Park




40


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 4-22 being
all Crown land in Kootenay Land District described as: Sublots 1 and 8
of District Lot 318, the whole containing 97 hectares, more or less.


[en. B.C. Reg. 204/91, s. 13; am. B.C. Reg. 151/2006, s. 5 (a).]






Repealed




41


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 211/93, s. 9.]






Eskers Park




42


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in Cariboo Land
District that is land and land covered by water contained within the
following described boundaries:



Commencing at a point the said point being the SE corner of the NW 1/4
of L 2734; thence north 804 m, more or less, to the SE corner of the
SW 1/4 of L 8784; thence East 402 m, more or less, to the SE corner of
the W 1/2 of the SE 1/4 of L 8784; thence north 804 m, more or less,
to the NE corner of the W 1/2 of the SE 1/4 of L 8784; thence east
1206 m, more or less, to the SE corner of the W 1/2 of L 8441; thence
north 1 609 m, more or less, to the SE corner of the NW 1/4 of L
8796; thence west 804 m, more or less, to the SW corner of the NW 1/4
of L 8796; thence north 1 206 m, more or less, to the NE corner
of the SE 1/4 of the SE 1/4 of L 8388; thence in a general
northwesterly direction 898 m, more or less, to the SE corner of the
NW 1/4 of L 8388; thence north 402 m, more or less, to the SE corner
of the NE 1/4 of the NW 1/4 of L 8388; thence west 804 m, more or
less, to the SE corner of the NE 1/4 of the NE 1/4 of L 8798; thence
in a general northwesterly direction 898 m, more or less, to the NE
corner of the NW 1/4 of L 8798; thence west 804 m, more or less, to
the SE corner of the SE 1/4 of L 2245; thence north 402 m, more or
less, to the SE corner of the NE 1/4 of the SE 1/4 of L 2245; thence
in a general northwesterly direction 1 137 m, more or less, to the SE
corner of the NE 1/4 of the NW 1/4 of L 2245; thence west 402 m, more
or less, to the SE corner of the NW 1/4 of the NW 1/4 of L 2245;
thence south 1 609 m, more or less, to the SE corner of the NW 1/4 of
the NW 1/4 of L 8797; thence east 402 m, more or less, to the SE
corner of the NE 1/4 of the NW 1/4 of L 8797; thence south 402 m, more
or less, to the SE corner of the SE 1/4 of the NW 1/4 of L 8797;
thence in a general southeasterly direction 568 m, more or less, to
the SE corner of the NW 1/4 of the SE 1/4 of L 8797; thence east 402
m, more or less, to the SE corner of the NE 1/4 of the SE 1/4 of L
8797; thence in a general southeasterly direction 1 136 m, more or
less, to the SE corner of the NE 1/4 of the NW 1/4 of L 8794; thence
east 402 m, more or less, to the SE corner of the NW 1/4 of the NE 1/4
of L 8794; thence in a general southeasterly direction 899 m, more or
less to the SE corner of the NE 1/4 of the SE 1/4 of L 8794; thence
south 2 815 m, more or less, along the easterly boundaries of Lots
8794, 8785 and 8783 to the SE corner of the NE 1/4 of L 8783; thence
west along the north boundary of the SE 1/4 of L 8783 to the point of
intersection with the natural boundary of Circle Lake; thence in a
general westerly direction along the natural boundary of Circle Lake
to the southerly boundary of the NW 1/4 of L 8783; thence west 215 m,
more or less, to Vivian Lake Road; thence in a general southwesterly
direction along the southern boundary of said road right of way to the
western boundary of the SW 1/4 of L 8783; thence south to the SW
corner of the SW 1/4 of L 8783; thence east 1 609 m, more or less, to
the SE corner of the SE 1/4 of L 8783; thence south 370 m, more or
less, to the SW corner of Block A of L 2733; thence east 680 m, more
or less, to the road right of way; thence in a general northeasterly
direction along the northern then western boundary of the road right
of way to the southern boundary of the SE 1/4 of L 2724; thence west 1
948 m, more or less, along the southern boundary of L 2724 and the
southern boundary of the NE 1/4 of L 2734 to the point of
commencement; and containing approximately 1 603 hectares, more or
less.


[en. B.C. Reg. 204/91, s. 13; am. B.C. Reg. 151/2006, s. 5 (b).]






Repealed




43


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 190/96, s. 6 (a).]






Gwillim Lake Park




44


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 7-21 being
all Crown land and land covered by water contained within the
following described boundaries:



Commencing at the triangulation reference point 2491 located at the
summit of Mount Meikle; thence N 69° W 6.74 km, more or less, to
the height of land lying to the west of the first unnamed creek
draining into Gwillim Lake west of Meikle Creek; thence N 16° E 3.62
km, more or less, to the height of land lying south of Gwillim River;
thence N 34° E 3.52 km, more or less, to the height of land separating
the drainages of Gwillim River and Trapper Creek; thence easterly 5.37
km, more or less, to the height of land separating the drainages of
Trapper Creek and Elephant Creek; thence S 33° E 4.67 km; thence
easterly 3.1 km, more or less, to the midline of Gwillim River; thence
southwesterly along the midline of Gwillim River to its confluence
with Moose Creek; thence southwesterly along the midline of Moose
Creek to a point due East of the triangulation reference point 2491 at
the summit of Mount Meikle; thence due West to the point of
commencement, save and except Statutory Right of Way Plan 32141, the
whole containing 9 199 hectares, more or less.

[en. B.C. Reg. 224/92, s. 15 (c).]





Woodhus Slough




45


That portion of M.U. 1-6 outlined in red on the attached map 'Closed
Area 7-45/22'.

[en. B.C. Reg. 157/2022, App. 3, s. 5 (a).]





Lukwa Lake




46


That portion of M.U. 1-6 in the vicinity of Lukwa Lake contained
within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the northwest corner of Lot 325; thence easterly 300 m
to a point just west of Lukwa Lake; thence northerly 500 m to a point;
thence westerly 600 m to a point on the east side of the Argonaut
Mainline; thence southerly and westerly along the Argonaut Mainline to
a point; thence southerly and easterly 920 m at 300° to the southwest
corner of Lot 325; thence northerly 1 030 m to the point of
commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 235/97, s. 4.]





Repealed




47


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 219/2000, s. 7.]






Beaver Lodge Trust Lands




48


That portion of M.U. 1-06 in the vicinity of Campbell River known as
the Beaver Lodge Trust Lands and described as follows:



Commencing at the northwest corner of the intersection of Merecroft
Road and Trask Road; thence south along the west boundary of Trask
Road to the north boundary of the SW 1/4 of Section 31,
Township 1; thence east along said boundary approximately
405 m; thence approximately 15 m at 209° (Azimuth Bearing);
thence approximately 9 m at 355°; thence approximately 60 m
at 300°; thence approximately 10 m at 210°; thence approximately
125 m at 300°; thence approximately 34 m at 195°; thence
approximately 125 m at 246°; thence approximately 105 m at
295°; thence approximately 130 m at 8°; thence approximately
70 m at 70°; thence approximately 13 m at 345°; thence
approximately 220 m at 300° to the west boundary of Dogwood
Street; thence south along said boundary to the northwest corner of
North Simms Creek bridge; thence approximately 165 m at 357°;
thence approximately 95 m at 267° to the southerly boundary of
the watershed of North Simms Creek; thence in a general southeasterly
direction along said boundary to the northern boundary of Rockland
Road; thence west along said boundary to the northeast corner of South
Simms Creek bridge; thence south along the east boundary of said
bridge to the southern boundary of the watershed of South Simms Creek;
thence southeast along said boundary to a point on the northern
boundary of the SW 1/4 of Section 29, Township 1;
thence west along said boundary to the west side of Dogwood Street;
thence south along said street to the north boundary of the
SW 1/4 of Section 20, Township 1; thence approximately
245 m west along said boundary; thence approximately 85 m at
119°; thence approximately 195 m west; thence approximately
65 m south to the boundary of Section 20, Township 1;
thence west approximately 410 m; thence north approximately
810 m; thence approximately 140 m at 265° to the east
boundary of the new Island Highway; thence north along said boundary
to the south boundary of Block 24; thence south, north and west
along the boundary of Block 24 to the west boundary of the
SE 1/4 of Section 36, Township 2; thence north along
said boundary of Section 36 to the northwest corner of the
NE 1/4 of Section 36, Township 2; thence east to the
point of commencement and including the following properties:




(a)

(i) the east 1/2 of the northeast 1/4 of Section 19;




(ii)

the northwest 1/4 of Section 20;




(iii)

the west 1/2 of the southwest 1/4 of Section 29;




(iv)

the east 1/2 of Section 30;




(v)

the east 1/2 of the west 1/2 of Section 30;




(vi)

the southeast 1/4 of Section 31;




(vii)

the east 1/2 of the northeast 1/4 of the southwest 1/4 of
Section 31;




(viii)

the southeast 1/4 of the southwest 1/4 of Section 31,


all in Township 1, Comox District, Plan 552;




(b)

Lot 3 of the northwest 1/4 of Section 20, Township 1, Comox District,
Plan 33674;




(c)

Lot A of the northwest 1/4 of Section 20, Township 1, Comox District,
Plan 33675;




(d)

Lot 1 of Section 20, Township 1, Comox District, Plan 47410;




(e)

Lot 1 of the northwest 1/4 of Section 20, Township 1, Comox District,
Plan 50686;




(f)

that part of the northwest 1/4 of Section 20, Township 1, Comox
District, Plan 552, shown outlined on Plan 50687;




(g)

Lot 1 of the southeast 1/4 of the southwest 1/4 of Section 31 and of
the east 1/2 of the west 1/2 of Section 30, Township 1,
Comox District, Plan 33674;




(h)

Lot 2 of the east 1/2 of Section 30, Township 1, Comox District,
Plan 33674;




(i)

that part of the southeast 1/4 of Section 31, Township 1, Comox
District, Plan 552, shown outlined on Plan 40784;




(j)

the 1.314 hectare portion of the southeast 1/4 of Section 31,
Township 1, Comox District, Plan 552, dedicated as "Park" on
Plan 47530;




(k)

Lot 1 of Section 31, Township 1, Comox District, Plan 47573;




(l)

Lot 1 of Section 31, Township 1, Comox District, Plan 51073;




(m)

Lot 2 of Section 31, Township 1, Comox District, Plan 51073;




(n)

Lot 3 of Section 31, Township 1, Comox District, Plan 51073;




(o)

Lot 4 of Section 31, Township 1, Comox District, Plan 51073;




(p)

Lot 5 of Section 31, Township 1, Comox District, Plan 51073;




(q)

Lot 6 of Section 31, Township 1, Comox District, Plan 51073, except
that part shown on Plan VIP53432;




(r)

Lot A of the southeast 1/4 of Section 31, Township 1, Comox District,
Plan VIP53432;




(s)

Lot B of the southeast 1/4 of Section 31, Township 1, Comox District,
Plan VIP53432;




(t)

Lot 1 of the southeast 1/4 of Section 31, Township 1, Comox District,
Plan 47530;




(u)

Lot 7 of Section 31, Township 1, Comox District, Plan 51073,
except that part shown on Plan VIP53432;




(v)

that part of the west 1/2 of the southwest 1/4 of Section 29,
Township 1, Comox District, Plan 552, lying to the east of
the easterly boundary of the proposed Dogwood Street extension, with
said easterly boundary as shown on Plan 7 Tube 1621 on
deposit with the Surveyor General Branch of the Ministry of Water,
Land and Air Protection, Victoria;




(w)

that part of the northwest 1/4 of Section 20, Township 1, Comox
District, Plan 552, lying to the east of the easterly boundary of
the proposed Dogwood Street extension, with said easterly boundary as
shown on Plans 6 Tube 1621 and 7 Tube 1621 both on
deposit with the Surveyor General Branch of the Ministry of Water,
Land and Air Protection, Victoria, except Plans 33674, 33675
and 47410.


[en. B.C. Reg. 194/99, s. 6 (d); am. B.C. Reg. 109/2002, s. 1.]






Khutzeymateen Park




49


That portion of M.U. 6-14 within the boundaries of Khutzeymateen Park
below the 1 000 metre elevation.

[en. B.C. Reg. 151/2006, s. 5 (c).]





Spatsizi Plateau Wilderness Park




50


That portion of M.U. 6-20 within the boundaries of Spatsizi Plateau
Wilderness Park known locally as the Danahue Pass Trail corridor.

[en. B.C. Reg. 151/2006, s. 5 (d).]





Repealed




51


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 239/2018, App. 1, s. 5.]






Whistler Olympic Park




52


That portion of M.U. 2-6 in the vicinity of the Resort Municipality of
Whistler outlined in red on the attached Map No. 7-2/14.

[en. B.C. Reg. 72/2014, App. 1, s. 5.]





Highway 3 — Loop Bridge and Alexander Bridge




53


That portion of M.U. 4-23 within 400 m of the midline of the road
highlighted in yellow on the attached map 'Closed Area 7-53/22'.

[en. B.C. Reg. 157/2022, App. 3, s. 5 (b).]



Schedule 8


Seasonal No Hunting Areas


(Section 9)





Cecil Lake




1


During the period June 1 to October 15 in that portion of M.U. 7-33
contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the southeasterly corner of Section 22, Township 85,
Range 16, W6 and proceeding northerly along the easterly boundaries of
Sections 22, 27 and 34 to the northeasterly corner of Section 34;
thence easterly to the point of intersection with the northwesterly
corner of Section 35, Township 85, Range 15, W6; thence southerly
along the westerly boundaries of Sections 35, 26 and 23 to the
southwesterly corner of Section 23; thence westerly to the point of
commencement.

[am. B.C. Reg. 172/86, s. 4.]





Repealed




2


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 109/85, s. 5 (a).]






Sunset Prairie




3


During the period June 1 to October 31 in that portion of M.U. 7-32
contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the northwest corner of Lot 34, Tp 80, R 18, W6 Peace
River Land District; thence westerly in a straight line approximately
10 km to the northwest corner of Sunset Prairie Community Pasture;
thence southerly approximately 700 m along the westerly boundary of
the said pasture to the point of intersection with a pipeline right of
way; thence approximately 5.8 km in a general southwesterly direction
along a fence that parallels the pipeline right of way to a point due
North of the northwest corner of Lot 31, Tp 79, R 19, W6; thence
southerly in a straight line approximately 6 km to the northwest
corner of Lot 31; thence southerly in a straight line to the southwest
corner of Lot 30; thence easterly in a straight line to the southeast
corner of Lot 29; thence northeasterly in a straight line to the
northeast corner of Lot 33; thence easterly in a straight line to the
northeast corner of Lot 31, Tp 79, R 18, W6; thence northerly in a
straight line to the northwest corner of Lot 5, Tp 80, R 18, W6;
thence easterly in a straight line to the northwest corner of Lot 4,
thence easterly, northerly, then easterly along the northerly, then
westerly, then northerly boundaries of Lot 4 to the southwest corner
of Lot 10; thence northerly in a straight line to the point of
commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 167/88, s. 12.]





Bear Mountain




4


During the period June I to October 15 in that portion of M.U. 7-20
contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the northeast corner of District Lot 22, Tp 77, R 16, W6
Peace River Land District; thence southerly in a straight line to the
southeast corner of Lot 3; thence in a general easterly direction to a
point near the midpoint of the southerly boundary of Lot 1; thence
southeasterly along a fence to the point of intersection with the
westerly boundary of Lot 30, Tp 23; thence southerly in a straight
line to the southwest corner of Lot 6; thence in a general
southwesterly direction along the fence that forms the southerly
boundary of the community pasture, and a prolongation thereof to the
point of intersection with the midline of Kiskatinaw River; thence in
a general northerly direction along the midline of Kiskatinaw River to
the point of intersection with the midline of an unnamed stream which
flows into Kiskatinaw River in Lot 35, Tp 19; thence in a general
westerly direction along the midline of the said stream to a point due
South of the middle point of the northerly boundary of Lot 35; thence
northerly in a straight line to the point; thence easterly along the
northerly boundary of Lot 35 to the middle point of the southerly
boundary of District Lot 1, Tp 77, R 17, W6; thence northerly to a
point due East of the middle point of the westerly boundary of Lot l;
thence westerly in a straight line to the point; thence northerly in a
straight line to the southeast corner of Lot 14; thence westerly in a
straight line to the middle point of the southerly boundary of Lot 14;
thence northerly in a straight line to the middle point of the
northerly boundary of Lot 26; thence easterly in a straight line to
the southwest corner of Lot 31, Tp 77, R 16, W6; thence northerly
along the westerly boundary of Lot 31 to the middle point; thence
easterly in a straight line to the middle point on the easterly
boundary of Lot 33; thence southerly in a straight line to the
northwest corner of Lot 22; thence easterly to the point of
commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 167/88, s. 13.]





K'waal and Kitkiata Watersheds




5


During the period January 1 to October 31 in that portion of M.U. 6-11
outlined in red on the attached Map No. 8-5/20.

[en. B.C. Reg. 169/2020, App. 1, s. 3.]



Schedule 8.1


No Hunting or Trapping Areas


(Section 8.1)





Burns Bog




1


That portion of the Province of British Columbia described as follows:




(a)

Parcel identifier 000-914-991


Parcel "D" (Explanatory Plan 2515) District Lot 437 Group 2; except:

Firstly: Parcel One (Reference Plan 8648);

Secondly: Portions in Plans 64775 and LMP7813;


Thirdly: Portions in Statutory Right of Way Plans 73154, 73156 and
LMP45327


Fourthly: Portions in Plans BCP10127 and BCP10128, New Westminster
District,




(b)

Parcel identifier 000-915-106


The West 100 acres of the Southeast Quarter of Section 23 Township 4;

except:

Firstly: the Right of Way of the Vancouver Victoria and Eastern
Railway and Navigation Company as shown on Plan with Fee Deposited
8825F;


Secondly: Parcel "A" (Reference Plan 15997);


Thirdly: Part on Highway Plan 73514, New Westminster District,




(c)

Parcel identifier 000-915-084


Parcel One (Reference Plan 25703) of the Northeast Quarter of Section
14, Township 4, except:

Firstly: Part subdivided by Plan 26104;
Secondly: Part subdivided by Plan 40037;

Thirdly: Part dedicated as road on Plan 50544;

Fourthly: Part on Highway Plan 73154; and

Fifthly: Part subdivided by Plan BCP10128, New Westminster District,




(d)

Parcel Identifier 000-915-114


Parcel 1 (Reference Plan 8648) District Lot 437, Group 2, New
Westminster District, Except Part subdivided by Plan BCP11267,




(e)

Lot E, District Lot 437, Group 2, New Westminster District Plan
BCP10127,




(f)

Parcel Identifier 000-915-122,


Section 16, Township 4, New Westminster District, and




(g)

Parcel Identifier 025-945-688


Lot A District Lot 437, Group 2, New Westminster District Plan
BCP11267.

[en. B.C. Reg. 151/2006, s. 6.]



Schedule 9


Firearms Using Shot Only Areas


(Section 10 (1) (a))






1


Those portions of the Province of British Columbia being all areas
within 150 m of the travelled portion of the following highways:




(1)

Highway 1 from the eastern boundary of the corporation of the township
of Chilliwack to the northern boundary of M.U. 2-18;




(2)

Highway 7 from the easterly boundary of Mission to its junction with
Highway 1.




(3)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 46/89, s. 10.]

[am. B.C. Regs. 46/89, s. 10; 459/90, s. 4.]





Pemberton




2


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
Pemberton within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the point of intersection of the centrelines of Highway
99 and the British Columbia Railway right of way, within Lot 4096,
Lillooet Land District; thence due North to the 450 m elevation
contour; thence in a general northeasterly direction along said
elevation contour to the point of intersection with the midline of
Pemberton Creek; thence in a general northeasterly direction along
said midline to the point of intersection with the 350 m elevation
contour; thence in a general northwesterly direction along said
elevation contour to the point due West of the intersection of the
centreline of Pemberton Valley road and the midline of Ryan River;
thence northeasterly in a straight line to the natural boundary of
Ryan River, on the northern bank thereof; thence in a general
southeasterly direction along said natural boundary to the point of
intersection with the natural boundary of Lillooet River, on the
western bank thereof; thence due East to the natural boundary of
Lillooet River, on the eastern bank thereof; thence in a general
southeasterly direction along said natural boundary to the point of
intersection with the northern boundary of the right of way of British
Columbia Railway; thence in a general easterly and northerly direction
along said right of way boundary to the point of intersection with the
northern boundary of Mount Currie IR 10; thence easterly along said
northern boundary and along the prolongation thereof to the point of
intersection with the boundary of Mount IR 6; thence easterly along
the boundary of Mount Currie IR 6 to the point due North of the
midline of Gravell Creek, at its confluence with Lillooet River;
thence due South to said midline; thence in a general southerly
direction along said midline to the 350 m elevation contour; thence in
a general westerly direction along said elevation contour to the point
of intersection with the boundary of Nairn Falls Provincial Park;
thence southwesterly along said boundary to the southwest corner of
said Park; thence northerly in a straight line to the point of
commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 190/96, s. 7.]





Naramata




3


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
Naramata within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the intersection of the northern boundary of Lot 286,
Similkameen District, and the eastern natural boundary of Okanagan
Lake and proceeding southerly along the eastern natural boundary to
the northern natural boundary of Trust Creek; thence proceeding
northeasterly along the northern natural boundary of Trust Creek to
its intersection with Chute Lake Road; thence proceeding southerly
along the eastern edge of the travelled portion of Chute Lake Road to
the southern boundary of Lot 1975, Similkameen District; thence
proceeding east along the lot boundary to its intersection with the
eastern boundary of the Canadian Pacific Railway right of way; thence
proceeding southerly along the eastern boundary of the Canadian
Pacific Railway right of way to the northern boundary of the City of
Penticton; thence proceeding west along the city boundary to the
eastern natural boundary of Okanagan Lake; thence proceeding northerly
along the eastern natural boundary of Okanagan Lake to the southerly
natural boundary of Arawana Creek; thence proceeding easterly along
the southerly natural boundary of Arawana Creek to Old Main Road;
thence proceeding easterly along the southern edge of the right of way
of Old Main Road to Naramata Road; thence proceeding northerly along
the eastern edge of the travelled portion of Naramata Road to Chute
Lake Road; thence proceeding northerly along the eastern edge of the
travelled portion of Chute Lake Road to the eastern boundary of Lot
286, Similkameen District; thence proceeding north along the lot
boundary to the northern lot boundary of Lot 286, Similkameen
District; thence proceeding west along the lot boundary to the point
of commencement.






Barnston Island




4


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
the City of Vancouver within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at intersection of the southerly boundary of the District
of Pitt Meadows and the northerly boundary of the District of Surrey,
west of Barnston Island; thence easterly along the District of Pitt
Meadows boundary to the point of its intersection with the northerly
boundary of the District of Langley; thence westerly along the
District boundary to its point of intersection with the northerly
boundary of the District of Surrey; thence westerly along the District
boundary to the point of commencement, excepting all Indian Reserve
lands.






Repealed




5


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 235/97, s. 5 (a).]






Repealed




6


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 170/2001, s. 4.]






Cultus Lake




7


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
Cultus Lake within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the intersection of the 250 m contour line to the west
of the Sweltzer River and the southerly boundary of the District of
Chilliwack; thence following the contour line southerly and westerly
to its intersection with the northern boundary of the Cultus Lake
Provincial Park; thence easterly, southerly and southeasterly
following the boundary to its southwestern corner and its intersection
with the 100 m contour line; thence westerly and southerly along the
contour line to its intersection with Frosst Creek; thence southerly
and easterly up Frosst Creek to its intersection with the 400 m
contour line; thence westerly, northerly and easterly along the 400 m
contour line to its intersection with the Department of National
Defence's Military Reserve boundary; thence northerly and westerly
along the Military Reserve boundary to its intersection with the
Soowahlie Indian Reserve boundary; thence westerly and northerly along
the Indian Reserve boundary to its point of intersection with the
southerly boundary of the District of Chilliwack; thence westerly to
the point of commencement.

[am. B.C. Reg. 109/85, s. 6 (a).]





Repealed




8


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 46/89, s. 10.]






Nicomen




9


Those 2 portions of the Province of British Columbia in Fraser Valley
Regional District within the following described boundaries:




(1)

Commencing at the intersection of Eagle Road and Highway 7; thence
northerly along Eagle Road to a point 150 m north of the intersection
of Eagle Road and Shore Road; thence in a straight line due West to a
point at the high water mark on the natural boundary of Hatzic Lake;
thence in a straight line northwesterly to the most easterly point of
the northeast-southwest component of Sward Road; thence due West to
the 20 m contour line; thence southerly along the contour line to its
intersection with the boundary of the Municipality of Mission; thence
westerly and northerly along the District boundary to the point of the
boundary's intersection with the southerly natural boundary of Stave
Lake; thence easterly along the natural boundary of Stave Lake; thence
easterly along the natural boundary to the mouth of Davis Creek;
thence easterly and northerly up the creek to the point of its
intersection with the southerly boundary of Davis Lake Provincial
Park; thence due East and due North along the southerly and easterly
boundaries of the park to the intersection of the easterly boundary of
the park with the 200 meter contour line; thence southeasterly along
the contour line to the point of its intersection with the 280 m
contour line; thence southerly along that contour line to the point of
its intersection with a point due East of the most easterly point on
the southern boundary of the Hartley road right of way; thence in a
straight line due West to the point of the line's intersection with
the 120 m contour line; thence southerly and easterly along the
contour line to the point of its intersection with Chilqua Creek;
thence southerly down the creek to its intersection with the 20 m
contour line; thence easterly along the contour line to its
intersection with the westerly bank of Norrish Creek; thence due East
to the 200 m contour line; thence easterly along the contour line to
its intersection with Deroche Creek; thence southerly along the
natural boundary of Deroche Creek to its intersection with the 60 m
contour line; thence due South to a point on North Nicomen Road at the
westerly end of a curve approximately 350 m west of the intersection
of Park Road and North Nicomen Road; thence easterly along the
southern boundary of North Nicomen Road to its intersection with
Deroche Creek; thence southerly along the western natural boundary of
Deroche Creek to its intersection with Taylor Road; thence westerly
along the northern boundary of Taylor Road to a point due North of the
end of the western boundary of Ross Road; thence due South to the
point of reference; thence southerly along the westerly boundary of
Ross Road to its intersection with Highway 7; thence easterly,
northerly and westerly along Highway 7 to its intersection with the
Canadian Pacific Railway; thence easterly along the railway to its
intersection with Malcolm Road; thence northerly and southeasterly
along Malcolm Road, approximately 1 km, to its intersection with a
dyke that commences at the base of the southwest corner of Harrison
Hill; thence southerly and westerly along the dyke to its intersection
with another dyke that runs generally westerly and northerly along the
southerly boundary of Zaitscullachan slough; thence in a straight line
due South to the northerly boundary of the District of Chilliwack;
thence westerly along the district boundary following the centre line
of the Fraser River, to the intersection with the easterly boundary of
the District of Mission; thence northwesterly, easterly and northerly
along the district boundary to its intersection with Highway 7; thence
easterly along Highway 7 to the point of commencement, excepting all
Indian Reserve lands;




(2)

Commencing at the intersection of the Canadian Pacific Railway right
of way and the southeastern corner of the Squawkum Indian Reserve
Number 3; thence northerly and easterly along the high water mark,
which is the natural boundary of Harrison Bay, to its intersection
with the right of way of Highway 7 at a point which is also on the
natural boundary of the Harrison River; thence southeasterly along the
bridge to the westerly boundary of the District of Kent; thence
southwesterly, southeasterly and southerly along the district boundary
to the point of intersection with the Canadian Pacific Railway right
of way; thence westerly along the southern boundary of the right of
way to the point of commencement.


[en. B.C. Reg. 176/89, s. 8; am. B.C. Reg. 235/97, s. 5 (b).]






Chilliwack Valley




10


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 2-3 in the
vicinity of Chilliwack within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the intersection of the easterly boundary of the
Soowahlie Number 14 Indian Reserve and the Chilliwack Lake Road;
thence northerly along the Reserve boundary to its intersection with
the southerly boundary of the District of Chilliwack; thence in an
easterly direction along the District boundary to its intersection
with an unnamed creek the mouth of which is located approximately 300
m southeasterly of the easterly end of O'Bryan Road (U.T.M.
50/10.5876.54370); thence southwesterly down the creek to its
confluence with the Chilliwack River; thence along a line due South to
the line's intersection with the southerly boundary of the Chilliwack
Lake Road; thence westerly along the road right of way boundary to its
intersection with a forestry access road on the south bank of the
Chilliwack River which intersects the Chilliwack Lake Road at a point
adjacent Tamihi Creek; thence westerly along the southerly boundary of
the forest access road to its intersection with the Department of
National Defence Military Reserve boundary; thence in a westerly and
northerly direction along the boundary of the Military Reserve to its
intersection with the easterly boundary of Soowahlie Indian Reserve
Number 14; thence northerly along the Reserve boundary to the point of
commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 205/94, s. 25.]





Sechelt




11


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 2-5 on the
Sechelt Peninsula within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at Daniel Point; thence northerly, easterly and southerly
along the mean low water mark of the natural boundary of Lee Bay to
the west end of Keelson Road; thence along the northerly and easterly
boundary of the road to Crosstrees Road; thence easterly along its
northerly boundary to Irvines Landing Road; thence easterly along the
road to the point of its intersection with Mixal Road and Garden Bay
Road; thence easterly along the northerly boundary of Garden Bay Road
to its intersection with Myers Creek; thence northeasterly up the
Creek to its intersection with Highway 101; thence along the westerly
boundary of Highway 101 to the most westerly point of the road
approximately 2.2 kilometres north of its intersection with Myers
Creek; thence in a straight line due northwest to the natural boundary
of Sakinaw Lake; thence southwesterly along the natural boundary of
the lake and its outlet stream to the mouth of the outlet stream;
thence westerly and southerly along the mean low water mark in the
natural boundary of Agamemnon Channel to the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 205/94, s. 26.]





Powell River




12


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 2-12 in the
vicinity of Powell River contained within the following described
boundaries:



Commencing at a point on the mean low water mark on the southerly
natural boundary of Jefferd Creek where it flows into Thunder Bay;
thence northerly up the creek to a point 500 m upstream of the
right-of-way of BC Hydro powerline; thence westerly to its
intersection with the Lois River; thence northerly and easterly along
the west bank of the Lois River to the Lois Lake dam; thence along a
straight line due West to a point 500 m north of the right-of-way of
the BC Hydro power line; thence northwesterly parallel to the
northerly boundary of the power line right of way at a perpendicular
distance off 500 m from it to Kelly Creek; thence due South along a
straight line to the southern boundary of the BC Hydro power line;
thence northwesterly along the southern boundary of the British
Columbia Hydro power line right of way to the southeasternmost bay of
Hammil Lake; thence westerly and northwesterly along the mean low
water mark of Hammil Lake to the outlet of Hammil Lake; thence in a
straight line due North to the mean low water mark of Haslam Lake;
thence westerly along the mean low water mark of Haslam Lake to its
westernmost point; thence in a straight line due northwest to the
southwesternmost point of Schmarge Bay, north of Powell Hill; thence
due West in a straight line to the easterly boundary of the Sliammon
Indian Reserve Number 1; thence southerly along the reserve boundary
to its intersection with the northerly boundary of the District
Municipality of Powell River; thence easterly and southerly along the
district boundary to a point on the boundary 500 m southerly from the
mean low water mark on the natural boundary of Malaspina Strait;
thence generally southeasterly along a line 500 m from and parallel to
the mean low water mark on the natural boundary of Malaspina Strait to
a point 500 m south of the southerly tip of an unnamed point of land
which forms the westerly shore of Frolander Bay; thence due East to
the natural boundary of Frolander Bay; thence northeasterly along the
base of a hill, which is located northeast of Frolander Bay, to the
natural boundary of Thunder Bay; thence northerly along the mean low
water mark on the natural boundary to the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 205/94, s. 27.]





Repealed




13


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 318/98, App. 2, s. 3.]






Sechelt




14


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 2-5 in the
vicinity of the Sechelt Peninsula within the following described
boundaries:



Commencing at a point on the mean high water mark at the tip of
Francis Point and proceeding 500 metres offshore in a straight line
perpendicular to the shoreline; thence proceeding generally easterly
and southerly then northeasterly parallel to and 500 metres distant
from the mean high water mark of the Sechelt Peninsula to a point 1 km
east of the mouth of Rainy River; thence proceeding northerly in a
straight line to a point on the mean high water mark of Sechelt
Peninsula; thence proceeding generally southwesterly, westerly and
northerly along the mean high water mark to the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 205/94, s. 28.]





Skaha Lake




15


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the Similkameen
Division of Yale Land District contained within the following
described boundaries:



Commencing at the point of intersection of the southerly boundary of
the City of Penticton and the maximum high water mark of Skaha Lake on
the easterly shore thereof and proceeding southerly, westerly and
northerly along the maximum high water mark to the point of
intersection with the westerly boundary of the City of Penticton,
thence southerly and easterly along the boundary to the point of
commencement.


[en. B.C. Reg. 109/85, s. 6 (b); am. B.C. Reg. 172/86, s. 5.]






Repealed




16


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 170/2001, s. 4.]






Lakelse Lake




17


That portion of M.U. 6-11 in the Province of British Columbia which is
contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the confluence of the mean high water mark of Lakelse
Lake and Schulbuckhand Creek; thence in a southeasterly direction
along said creek to Highway 37A; thence southerly along said highway
to the south boundary of Lot 2665; thence due West to the northeast
corner of Lot 6808; thence due South to Clearwater Creek; thence in a
northerly direction along the east bank of Clearwater Creek to the
mean high water mark of Lakelse Lake; thence in a generally westerly,
northerly, easterly and southerly direction along the mean high water
mark of Lakelse Lake to the point of commencement.


[en. B.C. Reg. 194/99, s. 7 (b); am. B.C. Reg. 189/2002, s. 3 (a).]






Repealed




18


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 318/98, App. 2, s. 3.]






Naikoon Park




19


Those portions of land in M.U. 6-13 in the Province of British
Columbia contained within the following described boundaries:


Area 1 — North Area

Commencing at the point of intersection of the natural boundary of
Tlell River on the right bank thereof and the northerly boundary of
Lot 1350 Queen Charlotte Land District; thence 50 metres easterly
along the northerly boundary of Lot 1350 to a point; thence in a
general northerly direction along a line 50 metres easterly of the
natural boundary of Tlell River on the right bank thereof to the point
of intersection with the natural boundary of Hecate Strait; thence in
a general southerly direction along the natural boundary of Tlell
River to the point of commencement.


Area 2 — South Area

Commencing at the point of intersection of the natural boundary of
Tlell River on the right bank thereof and the northerly boundary of
Lot 59 Queen Charlotte Land District; thence 50 metres easterly along
the northerly boundary of Lot 59 to a point; thence in a general
northerly direction along a line 50 metres easterly of the natural
boundary of Tlell River on the right bank thereof to the point of
intersection with the southerly boundary of Lot 1350; thence westerly
along the southerly boundary of Lot 1350 to the point of intersection
with the natural boundary of the Tlell River on the right bank
thereof; thence in a general southerly direction along the natural
boundary of Tlell River on the right bank thereof to the point of
commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 167/88, s. 14.]





Canal Flats




20


That portion of M.U. 4-25 which is contained within the following
described boundaries:



Commencing at the point of intersection of the northern boundary of
SL72 with the natural boundary of Columbia Lake on the eastern bank
thereof; thence easterly along the northern boundary of SL72 to the
point of intersection with the 3 500 foot elevation contour;
thence in a general southerly direction along said contour to the
southwestern corner of Mount Sabine; thence due southwest to the point
of intersection with the 2 900 foot elevation contour; thence in
a general southerly direction along said contour to the point of
intersection with the eastern boundary of the right of way of Kootenay
River Forest Access Road; thence southerly and easterly along the
eastern and northern boundaries of the right of way of said Access
Road to the point of intersection with the northern boundary of the
right of way of Crestbrook Off-Highway Haul Road; thence due South to
the point of intersection with the natural boundary of Kootenay River
on the northern bank thereof; thence in a general westerly direction
along the said natural boundary to the point of intersection with the
eastern boundary of the right of way of Highway 93/95; thence
northerly and westerly along the eastern and northern boundaries of
said right of way to the point of intersection with the natural
boundary of Columbia Lake on the southern bank thereof; thence in a
general easterly and northerly direction along the natural boundary of
Columbia Lake to the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 322/95, s. 4.]





Repealed




21


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 175/2010, App. 1, s. 6.]






Highways




22


Those portions of the Province of British Columbia being all areas
within 0.4 km (0.25 mile) of either side of the road allowance of
portions of the following highways and roads in British Columbia:




(a)

Highway 16 between the boundary of the City of Prince Rupert and the
British Columbia-Alberta interprovincial boundary;




(b)

Highway 37 between the Skeena River Bridge at Kitwanga Post Office,
Cassiar Land District, and the British Columbia-Yukon boundary;




(c)

Highway 97, including those portions of the Cariboo Highway from
Cottonwood River to Prince George, the John Hart Highway from Prince
George to Dawson Creek, and the Alaska Highway from Dawson Creek to
Lower Post;




(d)

Highway 37 between the intersection of Highway 37 with Highway 16 and
the boundary of the District of Kitimat;




(e)

Highway 29 between the intersection of Highway 29 with Highway 97 in
the vicinity of the village of Chetwynd and the intersection of
Highway 29 with Highway 97 in the vicinity of Charlie Lake, Peace
River Land District;




(f)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 169/2020, App. 1, s. 4.]




(g)

Highway 35 between Francois Lake and Burns Lake;




(h)

Highway 6 between Bench Creek and Banting Creek;




(i)

Tibbles Road in M.U. 5-13 from Nazko Road to 2000 Road;




(j)

Highway 5 (Coquihalla Highway) between Hope and the junction of
Highways 1 and 5 at Kamloops;




(k)

Canyon Drive (Road 520) between Hudson's Hope and the W.A.C. Bennett
Dam;




(l)

Twelve Mile Road (Road 190) between Canyon Drive (Road 520) and the
boat ramp on Dunlevy inlet, and the unnamed road (formerly known as
the 190A Road) from Twelve Mile Road (Road 190) to the bridge on
Dunlevy Creek;




(m)

Highway 27, from the junction with Route 16 (Yellowhead) west of
Vanderhoof to Fort St. James;




(n)

Highway 39, from the junction with Highway 97 north of McLeod Lake to
its intercept with the municipal boundaries of the City of Mackenzie;




(o)

Tatlayoko Road (Project #405) from its intersection with the Eagle
Main Road (Project #693) southerly to its end;




(p)

Robertson Road (Project #249), and any side roads to Robertson Road,
from its intersection with Highway 97 at District Lot 61, Cariboo Land
District, northerly to its intersection again with Highway 97 at the
village of McLeese Lake;




(q)

Horn-Bluff Lakes Road (Highway #341) from a point south 89° 29' 20"
east of the southwest corner of Lot 172, Range 2, Coast Land District,
along the midline of Highway #341 to the point of intersection with
the south boundary of Lot 791;




(r)

Highway 37A between the intersection of said highway and Highway 37 at
Meziadin Junction and the boundary of the District of Stewart at
Bitter Creek;




(s)

Topley Landing Road (Highway 118) between Topley and Granisle;




(t)

West Fraser Road from City of Quesnel city limits southerly to Grouse
Road.


[en. B.C. Reg. 211/93, s. 10; am. B.C. Regs. 205/94, s. 29; 235/97, s.
5 (c); 225/98, s. 6 (b); 170/2001, s. 4; 221/2005, s. 4; 130/2016,
App. 1, s. 5; 169/2020, App. 1, s. 4.]






Savary Island




23


That portion of the Province of British Columbia which is contained
within the following described boundary:


The mean low water mark of Savary Island.

[en. B.C. Reg. 205/94, s. 30.]





Repealed




24


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 170/2001, s. 4.]






Port Clements




25


That portion of M.U. 6-13 on the east side of Masset Inlet, Queen
Charlotte District, which is contained within the following described
boundaries:



Commencing at a point 1 km due North of the most northerly part of Lot
420; thence due South to the most northerly point of Lot 420 at the
high water mark; thence due West 100 metres; thence proceeding
southeasterly, remaining 100 metres west of the high water mark of
Kumdis Bay, to the intersection with Highway 16 in Lot 414; thence
easterly along Highway 16 for approximately 100 metres, to the east
end of the bridge that crosses Kumdis Creek, to a point at the mean
high water mark, on the east shore of Kumdis Creek; thence following
the mean high water mark of Kumdis Creek and Kumdis Bay in
northeasterly, northerly and northwesterly directions along the mean
high water mark of Kumdis Bay to a point due East of the most
northerly point of Lot 420; thence due West to the point of
commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 194/99, s. 7 (c).]





Stamp Lagoon




26


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 1-07 in the
vicinity of Port Alberni within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the confluence of Turtle Creek and Stamp River; thence
due North to a point 100 metres north of the Stamp River; thence
westerly at a distance of 100 metres from the northerly shoreline of
the Stamp River to a point 100 metres due North of where the Stamp
River enters Stamp Lagoon on the east side of the lagoon; thence
westerly at a distance of 100 metres from the northerly shoreline of
Stamp Lagoon to a point 100 metres north of where the Stamp River
enters Stamp Lagoon on the west side of the lagoon; thence southerly
to a point 100 metres due South of the Stamp River; thence easterly at
a distance of 100 metres from the southerly shoreline of Stamp Lagoon
to a point 100 metres due South of where the Stamp River enters Stamp
Lagoon on the east side of the lagoon; thence easterly at a distance
of 100 metres from the southerly shoreline of the Stamp River to a
point due South of the confluence of Turtle Creek and Stamp River;
thence northerly to the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 189/2002, s. 3 (b).]





Campbell River to Nanaimo




27


Those portions of the Province of British Columbia on Vancouver Island
shown outlined in red on the attached map 'Closed Area 9-27/22', other
than a portion of land that is reserve within the meaning of the

Indian Act

(Canada).

[en. B.C. Reg. 157/2022, App. 3, s. 6.]





Quadra Island




28


That portion of the Province of British Columbia on Quadra Island,
lying above the mean high water mark and south of the midline of North
Gowland Harbour Road and Lakberg Road.

[en. B.C. Reg. 157/2022, App. 3, s. 6.]





Nanaimo to Ladysmith




29


That portion of the Province of British Columbia on Vancouver Island
shown outlined in red on the attached map 'Closed Area 9-29/22', other
than a portion of land that is reserve within the meaning of the

Indian Act

(Canada).

[en. B.C. Reg. 157/2022, App. 3, s. 6.]





Ladysmith to Malahat




30


That portion of the Province of British Columbia on Vancouver Island
shown outlined in red on the attached map 'Closed Area 9-30/22', other
than a portion of land that is reserve within the meaning of the

Indian Act

(Canada).

[en. B.C. Reg. 157/2022, App. 3, s. 6.]



Schedule 10


Firearms Using Shot Only Areas (Seasonal)


(Section 10 (1) (b))





Repealed




1


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 235/97, s. 6.]






Groundbirch




2


During the period June 1 to October 31 in that portion of M.U. 7-21
contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the northeast corner of the Groundbirch Community
Pasture (situated at the southeast corner of the northeast quarter of
Section 2, Tp 78, R 19, W6M); thence southerly 5.6 km (3.5 miles) to
the headwaters of the north fork of the unnamed creek (locally known
as Rainey Creek); thence westerly along the middle thread of the
unnamed creek to the confluence with Coldstream Creek; thence westerly
along the middle thread of Coldstream Creek to the confluence with an
unnamed creek being the north fork of Coldstream Creek; thence
northeasterly along the middle thread of the unnamed creek to a point
due West of the southeast corner of the northeast quarter of Section
2, Tp 78, R 19, W6M; thence due East to the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 109/85, s. 7.]





One Island Pasture




3


During the period June 1 to October 15 in that portion of M.U. 7-20
contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the northeast corner of District Lot 36, Tp 24 and
proceeding southerly along the East boundaries of District Lots 36 and
25, Tp 24 to the middle point on the west boundary of District Lot 30,
Tp 25; thence easterly in a straight line to the middle point on the
east boundary of Lot 30; thence southerly along the boundary to the
southeast corner of Lot 30; thence west along the south boundary of
Lot 30 to the southwest corner of Lot 30; thence southerly along the
east boundary of District Lot 24, Tp 24 to its intersection with the
fence which forms the southerly and westerly boundaries of the
community pasture; thence westerly then in a general northwesterly
direction along the fence to its intersection with the north boundary
of District Lot 34, Tp 24; thence easterly along the north boundaries
of District Lots 34, 35 and 36, Tp 24 to the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 109/85, s. 7.]





Repealed




4


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 115/2018, App. 1, s. 10.]






Repealed




5


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 185/90, s. 13.]




Schedule 11


Prohibited Discharge Areas — Rifles


(Section 10 (1) (c))





Nicomen




1


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in Fraser Valley
Regional District in the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the southeast corner of the Squawkum Creek Indian
Reserve Number 3; thence easterly along the Canadian Pacific Railway
right of way to the westerly boundary of the District of Kent; thence
easterly and southerly along the district boundary to the point of its
intersection with the northerly boundary of the District of
Chilliwack; thence southwesterly along the district boundary to a
point due South of the intersection of the 2 dykes which are the
southern boundary of Zaitscullachan Slough and the eastern dyke on
Skumalasph Indian Reserve Number 16; thence in a straight line due
North to the intersection of the 2 dykes; thence northerly and
easterly along the dyke on the eastern side of Skumalasph Indian
Reserve Number 16 to its intersection with Malcolm Road; thence
westerly and northerly along Malcolm Road to its intersection with the
channel of an unnamed creek which is approximately 50 m east of the
junction of Malcolm Road and Hodgkin Road; thence up the unnamed creek
to its intersection with the 200 m contour line; thence northerly and
easterly along the contour line to a point due South of the point of
commencement; thence in a straight line due North to the point of
commencement.

[am. B.C. Reg. 235/97, s. 7.]





Repealed




2


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 381/87, s. (b).]






Keats Island




3


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 2-16 that is
all of Keats Island together with the adjacent foreshore between the
natural boundary of Keats Island and the mean low water mark.

[en. B.C. Reg. 204/91, s. 14.]





Grand Forks




4


That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 8-15 which is
contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the point of intersection of the Vancouver, Victoria and
Eastern Railway R/W (Plan A209) and the Canada/USA international
boundary; thence in a northeasterly and easterly direction along the
midline of said right of way to a point of intersection with the
midline of the Burlington northern Railway R/W; thence in a general
easterly and northeasterly direction along said right of way to a
point of intersection with the midline of Marchel Road; thence in a
southerly along the midline of Marchel Road to the intersection of the
Canada/USA international boundary; thence easterly along the
Canada/USA Border to the point due South of the end point of
Dergousoff Road; thence in a northerly direction along the midpoint of
Dergousoff Road to a point of intersection with the midline of the
Burlington northern Railway R/W; thence in a easterly direction along
the midline of said right of way to a point of intersection of Gilpin
Road; thence in a northwesterly direction along the midline of Gilpin
Road to a point of intersection with the midline of Atwood East Road;
thence in a westerly direction along the midline of Atwood East Road
to a point of intersection with the midline of Whitehall Road, thence
in a northerly, northeasterly and northerly direction along the
midline of Whitehall Road to a point of intersection with the midline
of Highway 3 (R/W Plan H748); thence in a southwesterly and westerly
direction along the midline of Highway 3 to the point of intersection
with the midline of Kenmore Road at the municipal boundary of the City
of Grand Forks; thence southerly along the midline of Kenmore Road to
a point of intersection with the midline of Cameron Avenue; thence
westerly along the midline of Cameron Avenue and a prolongation
thereof to the point of intersection with the municipal boundary of
the City of Grand Forks at the midline of the Kettle River; thence in
a general westerly, northerly, southwesterly, northwesterly and
northerly direction along the southerly and westerly municipal
boundary of the City of Grand Forks to a point of intersection with
the midlines of Coalchute Road, Northfork-Franklin Road and Hardy
Mountain Road; thence in a northerly direction along the midline of
Northfork-Franklin Road to a point of intersection with the midline of
Eagle Ridge Road; thence in a general southwesterly and northerly
direction along the midline to the end of Eagle Ridge Road; thence a
westerly direction to the 700 metre contour; thence in a general
southerly direction to the midline of Hardy Mountain Road; thence in a
general westerly direction along the midline of Hardy Mountain Road;
to a point of intersection with the midline of Reservoir Road; thence
in a general southwesterly direction along the midline of Reservoir
Road to a point of intersection with the midline of the Vancouver,
Victoria and Eastern Railway right of way (abandoned); thence in a
general southwesterly direction along the midline of said right of way
to a point of intersection with the western boundary of D.L. 365,
Similkameen Division, Yale Land District; thence in a southerly
direction along the eastern boundaries of D.L. 365 and D.L. 497 to the
point of intersection with the Canada/USA international boundary;
thence in an easterly direction along said international boundary to
the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 80/2012, App. 1, s. 3.]





Management Unit 1-1




5


That portion of the Province of British Columbia within the boundaries
of M.U. 1-1, excepting those portions of Valdes Island, Sidney Island
or James Island located above the mean high water mark.

[en. B.C. Reg. 318/98, App. 2, s. 4.]



Schedule 12

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 211/93, s. 12.]


Schedule 13


Non-toxic Shot Only Areas


(Section 10 (1) (d))





Delta/Surrey Dykes




1


Those portions of M.U. 2-4 within the Corporation of Delta being any
dyke and the seaward or river side of any dyke, and within that part
of the Corporation of the District of Surrey South of Highway 99 being
any dyke facing Mud Bay and the seaward side of any said dyke.

[en. B.C. Reg. 211/93, s. 13.]



Schedule 14

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 157/2022, App. 3, s. 7.]


Schedule 15


[en. B.C. Reg. 72/2014, App. 1, s. 7; am. B.C. Regs. 135/2017, App. 1,
s. 3; 115/2018, App. 1, s. 11; 239/2018, App. 1, s. 6; 169/2020, App. 1,
s. 5; 157/2022, App. 3, s. 8.]


Closed Areas Maps

Closed Area 5.1-13/22
Closed Area 5.1-14/22
Closed Area 7-45/22
Closed Area 7-53/22
Closed Area 9-27/22
Closed Area 9-29/22
Closed Area 9-30/22
Map No. 5-41/18
Map No. 5-57/18
Map No. 5-77/18
Map No. 5-139/20
Map No. 5.1-1/17
Map No. 7-2/14
Map No. 7-3/18
Map No. 8-5/20
No Shooting or Hunting Area Kalamalka Lake Park
No Shooting or Hunting Area Marble Canyon Park


NOTE: Maps are exempt from publication and may be inspected at the
offices of the Fish and Wildlife Branch, Ministry of Forests, 2975
Jutland Road, PO Box 9374 Stn Prov Govt, Victoria, B.C. V8T 5J9,
during regular office hours.



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Wildlife Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 488, s. 108.]



