







B.C. Reg. 231/2005

O.C. 469/2005


Deposited June 29, 2005

effective July 1, 2005





This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Community Living Authority Act


Community Living Authority Regulation


[includes amendments up to B.C. Reg. 61/2018, March 31, 2018]






Definitions




1


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the

Community Living Authority Act

;



"Canadian Guidelines (2005)"

means the guidelines for diagnosis of fetal alcohol spectrum disorder
set out in "Fetal alcohol spectrum disorder: Canadian guidelines for
diagnosis" by A.E. Chudley et al., published in volume 172 Issue 5 of
the
Canadian Medical Association Journal
in 2005;



"Canadian Guidelines (2016)"

means the guidelines for diagnosis of fetal alcohol spectrum disorder
set out in "Fetal alcohol spectrum disorder: a guideline for diagnosis
across the lifespan" by J.L. Cook et al., published in volume 188
Issue 3 of the
Canadian Medical Association Journal
in 2016;


"DSM-IV-TR"
means Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth
Edition, Text Revision, published by the American Psychiatric
Association in 2000;


"DSM-5"
means Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth
Edition, published by the American Psychiatric Association in 2013;



"qualifying practitioner"

means a person who is




(a)

a registered practitioner, or




(b)

a psychologist certified by the British Columbia Association of School
Psychologists;



"registered practitioner"

means a person who is




(a)

a psychologist, or




(b)

a psychological associate


registered with the College of Psychologists of British Columbia and
licensed to practise in British Columbia;



"significant limitations in adaptive functioning"

means significant limitations in adaptive functioning under section
2.5.


[en. B.C. Reg. 228/2008, s. 1; am. B.C. Regs. 265/2009, s. 1; 61/2018,
s. 1.]






Interpretation




2


In the Act:



"impaired adaptive functioning"

means adaptive functioning that, when evaluated by a qualifying
practitioner, is determined to be a contributing factor




(a)

in making a diagnosis, in accordance with DSM-5, of intellectual
disability (intellectual developmental disorder), or




(b)

in making a diagnosis, in accordance with DSM-IV-TR, of the disorder
that has been replaced in DSM-5 by intellectual disability
(intellectual developmental disorder);



"independent planning support"

means assistance that, in respect of a child, adult or family who is
approved for or is receiving community living support,




(a)

enables




(i)

identification of a child's, adult's or family's needs for community
living support, and




(ii)

development or adaptation of a plan to address those needs, and




(b)

is provided by a person who will not participate in making the
decision whether to approve the community living support set out in
the plan;



"individualized funding"

means funds that are provided for community living support of a
particular child or adult or family of a particular child or adult in
accordance with an approved plan for community living support in
respect of that child, adult or family.

[am. B.C. Regs. 228/2008, s. 2; 61/2018, s. 2.]





Developmental disability




2.1


For the purposes of the definition of "developmental disability" in
section 1 of the Act, the prescribed criteria are




(a)

intellectual functioning that, when tested by a qualifying
practitioner according to one or more standardized intelligence tests,
results in a score of 70 or less, or




(b)

intellectual functioning that, when tested by a registered
practitioner according to one or more standardized intelligence tests,
results in a score of more than 70, if the registered practitioner
determines in accordance with DSM-5 that adaptive behaviour problems
in social judgment, social understanding and other areas of adaptive
functioning are so severe that actual intellectual functioning is
comparable to that of persons who attain a score of 70 or less.

[en. B.C. Reg. 61/2018, s. 3.]





Community living support




2.2


For the purposes of paragraph (d) of the definition of
"community living support"
in section 1 of the Act, the following persons are prescribed:




(a)

persons with fetal alcohol spectrum disorder as described in section
2.3;




(b)

persons with pervasive developmental disorder as described in section
2.4;




(c)

persons with autism spectrum disorder as described in section 2.41.


[en. B.C. Reg. 265/2009, s. 2; am. B.C. Reg. 61/2018, s. 4.]






Persons with fetal alcohol spectrum disorder




2.3


A person with fetal alcohol spectrum disorder is a person who




(a)

has been diagnosed with fetal alcohol spectrum disorder, in accordance
with the Canadian Guidelines (2005) or the Canadian Guidelines (2016),
by




(i)

a registered practitioner, and




(ii)

a medical practitioner,




(b)

has significant limitations in adaptive functioning, and




(c)

does not have a developmental disability.


[en. B.C. Reg. 265/2009, s. 2; am. B.C. Reg. 61/2018, s. 5.]






Persons with pervasive developmental disorder




2.4


A person with pervasive developmental disorder is a person who




(a)

has been diagnosed in accordance with DSM-IV-TR with pervasive
developmental disorder by




(i)

a registered practitioner, or




(ii)

a medical practitioner granted full registration for specialty
practice by the College of Physicians and Surgeons of British Columbia
in the specialty of pediatrics or psychiatry,




(b)

has significant limitations in adaptive functioning, and




(c)

does not have a developmental disability.


[en. B.C. Reg. 265/2009, s. 2; am. B.C. Reg. 61/2018, s. 6.]






Persons with autism spectrum disorder




2.41


A person with autism spectrum disorder is a person who




(a)

has been diagnosed with autism spectrum disorder, in accordance with
DSM-5, by




(i)

a registered practitioner, or




(ii)

a medical practitioner granted full registration for specialty
practice by the College of Physicians and Surgeons of British Columbia
in the specialty of pediatrics or psychiatry,




(b)

has significant limitations in adaptive functioning, and




(c)

does not have a developmental disability.

[en. B.C. Reg. 61/2018, s. 7.]





Significant limitations in adaptive functioning




2.5


For the purposes of sections 2.3 (b), 2.4 (b) and 2.41 (b), a person
has significant limitations in adaptive functioning if the person has
a combined score for all adaptive skill areas that is at least three
standard deviations below the mean when tested with one of the
following adaptive functioning measuring tools by a qualifying
practitioner:




(a)

the Scales of Independent Behavior-Revised (SIB-R) published by
Riverside Publishing Co. in 1996;




(b)

the Vineland Adaptive Behavior Scales, Second Edition (Vineland-II)
published by American Guidance Services Publishing in 2005;




(c)

the Adaptive Behavior Assessment System, Second Edition (ABAS 2)
published by The Psychological Corporation in 2003;




(d)

the Adaptive Behavior Assessment System, Third Edition (ABAS-3),
published by Western Psychological Services in 2015.


[en. B.C. Reg. 265/2009, s. 2; am. B.C. Reg. 61/2018, s. 8.]






Application of
Business Corporations Act




3


Section 143 of the

Business Corporations Act

applies to the authority.






Repealed




4


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 231/2005, s. 4 (2).]






Repealed




5


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 231/2005, s. 5 (3).]



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Community Living Authority Act

, S.B.C. 2004, c. 60, ss. 11, 27 and 29]



