







B.C. Reg. 352/2004

O.C. 792/2004


Deposited July 23, 2004






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Forest Act


Community Tenures Regulation

[Last amended July 15, 2023 by B.C. Reg. 158/2023]





Definitions




1


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the

Forest Act

;


"company"
means a company as defined in the

Business Corporations Act

;



"extraprovincial company"

means an extraprovincial company as defined in the

Business Corporations Act

;



"holder's change limit"

, in relation to a community forest agreement, means an increase or
decrease in the area of the community forest agreement of 10% or 100
ha, whichever is less, that results from the accumulation of increases
and decreases in the community forest agreement area, from boundary
changes under section 43.52 of the Act, that are made




(a)

between the first day of the community forest agreement's current
deletion period and the date of an application for a boundary change,
and




(b)

on application of the holder under section 3 of this regulation;



"minister's change limit"

, in relation to a community forest agreement, means an increase or
decrease in the area of the community forest agreement of 10% or 100
ha, whichever is less, that results from the accumulation of increases
and decreases in the community forest agreement area, from boundary
changes under section 43.52 of the Act, that are made




(a)

between the first day of the community forest agreement's current
deletion period and the date the minister decides to make the boundary
change, and




(b)

on the minister's own initiative;



"reserve land"

means land in a reserve as defined in the

Indian Act
(Canada)

.


[am. B.C. Regs. 104/2011, Sch. 3, s. 1; 101/2018, Sch. 2, s. 1.]




Part 1 â€” Community Forest Agreements





Eligible applicants




2


For the purposes of section 43.2 (3) (c) of the Act, a community
forest agreement may be entered into only with an applicant that is




(a)

a society as defined in the

Societies Act

, if the society can demonstrate that it is not prohibited under
section 2 (2) of that Act from holding a community forest agreement;




(b)

an association as defined in the

Cooperative Association Act

, if the association can demonstrate that holding a community forest
agreement is consistent with the purposes of the association;




(c)

a company or an extraprovincial company;




(d)

a partnership, if the partnership is comprised of




(i)

first nations,




(ii)

municipalities or regional districts,




(iii)

societies that comply with paragraph (a),




(iv)

associations that comply with paragraph (b),




(v)

companies or extraprovincial companies, or




(vi)

a combination of any of the entities referred to in subparagraphs (i)
to (v).


[am. B.C. Regs. 104/2011, Sch. 3, ss. 2 to 4; 211/2015, s. 16.]






Applications




3

(1)


An application for a community forest agreement under section 43.2 (1)
of the Act must




(a)

be made to the minister,




(b)

be in the form and manner required by the minister, and




(c)

include the following:




(i)

a description of the Crown land proposed for inclusion in the
community forest agreement area, if the Crown land was not described
in the advertisement;




(ii)

a description of any private land or reserve land proposed for
inclusion in the community forest agreement area;




(iii)

the name and type of organization, as described in section 2, or the
name of the first nation, municipality or regional district that will
hold the community forest agreement;




(iii.1)

if the organization is a partnership, the name and type of
organization, as described in section 2 (d), of each partner;




(iii.2)

the governance model for the community forest agreement, including the
structure and mandate of the management board or persons who will
direct operations under or in respect of the agreement;




(iv)

a plan for the management of forest resources in the proposed
community forest agreement area that includes the following:




(A)

a description of benefits to the community as a result of the proposed
management;




(B)

a description of benefits to forest resources as a result of the
proposed management;




(C)

a proposed allowable annual cut for the community forest agreement
area;




(D)

proposed management objectives for forest resources in the community
forest agreement area;




(E)

guiding principles for managing forest resources in the community
forest agreement area;




(v)

documentation of community awareness and support for the proposed
community forest agreement, including a summary of the submissions
received during, and the results of, a public review of the
application conducted by the applicant;




(vi)

other information required by the minister to the extent the
information is relevant to the application.




(2)

Under section 43.52 of the Act, the minister




(a)

may change a boundary of a community forest agreement on application
of the holder of the agreement or on the minister's own initiative,
and




(b)

may increase the area of a community forest agreement on application
of the holder of the agreement.




(3)

The holder of a community forest agreement may apply under subsection
(2)




(a)

for a change of boundary of the community forest agreement only if the
change will not result in the holder's change limit being exceeded,
and




(b)

for an increase in the area of a community forest agreement if




(i)

a change of boundary is desired but the boundary change would result
in the holder's change limit being exceeded, or




(ii)

an increase in the area of the community forest agreement is desired.




(4)

An application under subsection (2) for a change of boundary of a
community forest agreement must




(a)

comply with subsection (5) (a), (f) and (g),




(b)

describe the Crown land, private land or reserve land affected by the
change of boundary,




(c)

describe the reasons for the change of boundary, and




(d)

indicate the following:




(i)

how the change of boundary is in the best interests of the community
and the public;




(ii)

how the change of boundary will improve the management of forest
resources;




(iii)

the implications to the interests of the community and the public and
the management of forest resources if the change of boundary is not
made.




(5)

An application under subsection (2) for an increase in the area of a
community forest agreement must




(a)

be in the form and manner required by the minister,




(b)

describe the Crown land, private land or reserve land by which the
area of the community forest agreement is to be increased,




(c)

describe the reasons for the increase of area,




(d)

include a plan for the management of forest resources that includes
the following:




(i)

for the area to be added to the community forest agreement area,




(A)

a description of benefits to the community as a result of the proposed
management in that area, and




(B)

a description of benefits to forest resources as a result of the
proposed management in that area;




(ii)

for the community forest agreement area as increased under the
application,




(A)

a proposed allowable annual cut,




(B)

proposed management objectives for forest resources, and




(C)

guiding principles for managing forest resources,




(e)

if requested by the minister, include a plan for the management of
forest resources that includes the matters described in paragraph (d)
(i) for the community forest agreement area as increased under the
application,




(f)

include documentation of community awareness and support for
increasing the community forest agreement area, including a summary of
the submissions received during, and the results of, a public review
of the application conducted by the applicant, and




(g)

other information required by the minister to the extent the
information is relevant to the application.




(6)

The minister may change a boundary of a community forest agreement on
the minister's own initiative only if the change of boundary will not
result in the minister's change limit in relation to the community
forest agreement being exceeded.




(7)

Section 7 does not apply to the minister making a change of boundary
under subsection (6) of this section.


[am. B.C. Regs. 210/2009, s. (2) (a); 104/2011, Sch. 3, s. 5;
101/2018, Sch. 2, s. 2.]






Evaluation of applications




4

(1)


If the minister is satisfied that an application under section 3 (1)
meets the requirements of that section, the minister must evaluate the
application by considering the following:




(a)

whether the proposed community forest agreement area is considered
suitable for a community forest agreement;




(b)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 101/2018, Sch. 2, s. 3 (c).]




(c)

whether the application documents community awareness and support for
the proposed community forest agreement;




(d)

whether the plan for the management of forest resources in the
proposed community forest agreement area




(i)

is suitable for managing the resources known to be present on the
community forest agreement area, and




(ii)

is appropriate to achieve the goals established by the government for
the community forest program;




(e)

whether the proposed governance model for the community forest
agreement will ensure that operations under the community forest
agreement are conducted in a manner that provides for meaningful input
from the community and stakeholders;




(e.1)

whether the proposed governance model supports the achievement of the
goals established by the government for the community forest program;




(f)

the results of a public review of the application, including any
actions taken or proposed to be taken by the applicant in response to
concerns raised during the public review;




(g)

whether entering into a community forest agreement would be in the
best interest of the community and the public;




(h)

any other information provided by the applicant as required by the
minister.




(2)

If the minister is satisfied that an application for the purpose of
section 3 (5) meets the applicable requirements under that section,
the minister must evaluate the application by considering the
following:




(a)

whether the land to be added to the community forest agreement area is
suitable for a community forest agreement;




(b)

whether the proposed plan under section 3 (5) (d) or (e), as
applicable, for the management of forest resources in the area to be
added to community forest agreement or in the area of the community
forest agreement as increased under the application,




(i)

is suitable for managing the resources known to be present in the
applicable area,




(ii)

will achieve the goals established by the government for the community
forest program, and




(iii)

will ensure that operations under the community forest agreement are
conducted in a manner that provides for meaningful input from the
community and stakeholders;




(c)

the results of a public review of the application, including any
actions taken or proposed to be taken by the applicant in response to
concerns raised during the public review;




(d)

whether the documentation of the public review demonstrates community
awareness and support for the proposed increase in area;




(e)

whether increasing the area of the community forest agreement would be
in the best interests of the community and the public;




(f)

other information provided by the applicant as required by the
minister.




(3)

If the minister is satisfied that an application for the purpose of
section 3 (4) meets the applicable requirements under that section,
the minister must evaluate the application by considering the
following:




(a)

whether changing the boundary of the community forest agreement area
would be in the best interests of the community and the public;




(b)

whether management of the forest resources in the community forest
agreement area will be improved by changing the boundary;




(c)

the results of a public review of the application, including any
actions taken or proposed to be taken by the applicant in response to
concerns raised during the public review;




(d)

whether the documentation of the public review demonstrates community
awareness and support for the proposed boundary change;




(e)

other information provided by the applicant as required by the
minister.


[am. B.C. Regs. 210/2009, s. (2) (b); 101/2018, Sch. 2, s. 3.]






Repealed




5


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 210/2009, s. (2) (c).]






Direct award of community forest agreements




6

(1)


For the purposes of section 43.51 (1) (b) of the Act, the minister may
enter into a community forest agreement with a person referred to in
section 43.2 (3) of the Act or with a first nation if




(a)

the person or first nation is invited by the minister to apply for the
agreement and the minister is satisfied with the application,




(b)

any of the circumstances or requirements set out in subsection (3)
apply, and




(c)

the minister evaluates the application in accordance with section 4
(1).




(2)

Section 3 (1) (c) applies to an application under subsection (1) of
this section.




(3)

For the purposes of subsection (1) the circumstances or requirements
are any of the following:




(a)

the person




(i)

holds




(A)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 101/2018, Sch. 2, s. 4 (e).]




(B)

a forest licence that is not a non-replaceable licence as defined in
section 80.1 of the Act, or




(C)

a tree farm licence,

in respect of which



(D)

rights under the licence are not under suspension, and




(E)

all money




(I)

required to be paid to the government under the circumstances set out
in section 130 (1.1) of the Act, and




(II)

due and payable to the government

in respect of the licence



(III)

has been paid, or




(IV)

is the subject of an arrangement for payment approved by the minister
responsible for collecting the money, and




(ii)

surrenders the licence on entering into the community forest
agreement;




(b)

in the opinion of the minister, on the balance of probabilities it is
unlikely that any other person would submit an application;




(c)

in the opinion of the minister, entering into the agreement is in the
public interest.


[am. B.C. Regs. 255/2007, s. (c); 210/2009, s. (2) (d) and (e);
104/2011, Sch. 3, ss. 6 and 7; 101/2018, Sch. 2, s. 4.]






Increase in area or change of boundary




7

(1)


Subject to this section, under section 43.52 of the Act the minister
may change the boundary or increase the area of a community forest
agreement on application under section 3 of this regulation if the
minister is satisfied that




(a)

rights under the agreement are not under suspension, and




(b)

all money




(i)

required to be paid to the government under the circumstances set out
in section 130 (1.1) of the Act, and




(ii)

due and payable to the government

in respect of the agreement



(iii)

has been paid, or




(iv)

is the subject of an arrangement for payment approved by the minister
responsible for collecting the money.




(2)

On receiving an application under section 3 (2) for an increase in
area under section 43.52 of the Act, and after complying with section
4 (2) of this regulation in respect of the application, the minister
may increase the area of a community forest agreement if satisfied
that




(a)

the increase in area will




(i)

improve forest resource management, or




(ii)

achieve a development objective of the government or the holder,




(b)

the increase in area will achieve the goals established by government
for the community forest program, and




(c)

the reasons for the increase in area are not contrary to the best
interest of the community or the public.




(3)

On receiving an application under section 3 (2) for a change of
boundary under section 43.52 of the Act, and after complying with
section 4 (3) of this regulation in respect of the application, the
minister may change the boundary of a community forest agreement if
the minister is satisfied that the reasons for the change are not
contrary to the best interest of the community or the public.

[en. B.C. Reg. 101/2018, Sch. 2, s. 5.]



Part 2





Repealed




8


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 158/2023, s. (c).]



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Forest Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 157, ss. 1.1, 43.2, 43.51, 43.52, 43.7 and 151.]



