







B.C. Reg. 58/2005

O.C. 161/2005


Deposited February 25, 2005

effective April 18, 2005





This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Correction Act


Correction Act Regulation


[Last amended February 13, 2023 by B.C. Reg. 34/2023]




Part 1 — Definitions





Definitions




1


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the

Correction Act

;



"assistant deputy minister"

means the assistant deputy minister of BC Corrections;



"BC Corrections"

means the branch of government responsible for corrections;



"health care professional"

means a person employed by the Provincial Health Services Authority
who is




(a)

a registrant as defined in the

Health Professions Act

, or




(b)

a person designated by the Provincial Health Services Authority to
provide health care services in a correctional centre;


"intoxicant"
means a substance that, if taken into the body, has the potential to
impair or alter judgment, behaviour or the capacity to recognize
reality or to meet the ordinary demands of life, but does not include
caffeine, nicotine or any authorized medication used in accordance
with the directions given by a staff member or health care
professional;



"Ombudsperson"

means the Ombudsperson appointed under the

Ombudsperson Act

or a person to whom the Ombudsperson has delegated any of the
Ombudsperson's powers or duties under section 30 of that Act;



"person in charge"

means the person appointed as the warden of a correctional centre;



"provincial director"

means the director of correctional centres for British Columbia;



"Provincial Health Services Authority"

means the Provincial Health Services Authority, a society under the

Societies Act

;



"quarantine unit"

means an area designated by the person in charge to quarantine
inmates;



"segregation unit"

means an area designated by the person in charge to segregate inmates.


[am. B.C. Regs. 243/2015, Sch. 1, s. 1; 178/2017, s. 1; 320/2021, s.
1; 76/2022, s. 4; 34/2023, s. 1.]




Part 2 — Powers and Duties of Persons Employed in Correctional Centres





Standards for confinement




2

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), the person in charge must ensure that an
inmate is given




(a)

regular meals of the type ordinarily served to inmates,




(b)

the opportunity for at least 2.5 hours per day out of the inmate's
cell, including the opportunity for a daily exercise period of at
least one hour that is in the open air if weather and security
considerations allow,




(c)

clothing, a mattress and bedding,




(d)

access to reading materials,




(e)

reasonable access to mail and to the telephone,




(f)

postage for




(i)

all privileged communication made by mail, and




(ii)

up to 7 letters a week for other communication made by an inmate by
mail,




(g)

access to personal visits,




(h)

access to health care,




(i)

access to personal washing or shower facilities at least once a day,
and




(j)

access to toilet articles that are necessary for the inmate's health
and cleanliness.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply if




(a)

the person in charge, or a staff member designated by the person in
charge, believes on reasonable grounds that one or more of the items
or services referred to in subsection (1) cannot be given to the
inmate because it may endanger the inmate or another person, or




(b)

the inmate is confined separately from other inmates under section 17,
18 or 19 or confined in a cell in the segregation unit under section
24 or 27 (1) (d) and one or more of the items or services referred to
in subsection (1) cannot reasonably be given to the inmate, having
regard to the limitations of the area in which the inmate is confined
and the necessity for the safe and effective operation of that area.




(3)

The person in charge may pay an inmate for work done in a work
program.


[am. B.C. Regs. 124/2020, s. 1; 320/2021, s. 2; 34/2023, s. 2.]






Inmates who are not sentenced




3


The person in charge must ensure that an inmate who is not sentenced
to imprisonment as a result of a conviction for an offence under the

Criminal Code

or another federal enactment or an offence under a provincial
enactment, or who is detained under the
Immigration Act
(Canada) or the

Immigration and Refugee Protection Act

(Canada),




(a)

is, where circumstances allow, housed separately from inmates who are
sentenced to imprisonment as a result of a conviction for an offence
under the

Criminal Code

or another federal enactment or an offence under a provincial
enactment, and




(b)

consents before being assigned to a work program.

[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 11.]





Inmate concerns




4


A staff member must, if circumstances allow, make reasonable attempts
to address a concern raised by an inmate.






Information to be provided to inmate




5

(1)


The person in charge must ensure that an inmate is given reasonable
access to the following:




(a)

the Act;




(b)

this regulation;




(c)

information about the daily routine of the correctional centre;




(d)

information about




(i)

the rules governing conduct of inmates and breaches of the rules,




(ii)

how to file a complaint with the person in charge and the director and
how to ask for a review of a disciplinary hearing decision,




(ii.1)

how to make submissions about why separate confinement under section
18 should not continue or should be for a shorter period of time, and




(iii)

how to apply for temporary absence and parole.




(2)

The person in charge must make reasonable efforts to ensure that an
inmate who is unable to adequately understand the material referred to
in subsection (1) receives assistance to understand the material.

[am. B.C. Regs. 124/2020, s. 2; 34/2023, s. 3.]





Identification of staff member




6


A staff member must wear a name tag that identifies the staff member.






Travel warrant on discharge




7


On discharge of an inmate, the person in charge, or a staff member
designated by the person in charge, must provide a travel warrant to
enable the inmate to return to the place in the province where the
inmate was convicted or to another place in the province that the
person in charge, or the staff member designated by the person in
charge, considers reasonable in the circumstances.

[am. B.C. Reg. 34/2023, s. 4.]





Deputy warden




7.1


A person appointed as a deputy warden of a correctional centre may
exercise the powers of the person in charge whether or not the person
in charge is present at the correctional centre.

[en. B.C. Reg. 34/2023, s. 5.]



Part 3 — Custody of Inmates



Division 1 — Security Measures





Identification of inmate




8

(1)


In this section,

"personal identification device"

includes a wrist band and magnetic access card.




(2)

On admission to a correctional centre, and at any other time on the
direction of a staff member, an inmate must




(a)

submit to an identification process that may include a photograph, a
digital or video image, or another form of identification approved by
the assistant deputy minister, and




(b)

provide the following information about the inmate:




(i)

name;




(ii)

date and place of birth;




(iii)

height and weight;




(iv)

distinguishing marks, including birthmarks, scars and tattoos;




(v)

correctional service number.




(3)

An inmate must retain and wear a personal identification device as
directed by the person in charge, or a staff member designated by the
person in charge, and produce it when directed to do so by a staff
member.

[am. B.C. Regs. 76/2022, s. 11; 34/2023, s. 2.]





Use of physical restraint devices




9

(1)


An authorized person may use a type of physical restraint device that
is approved by the provincial director if circumstances require use of
the physical restraint device in order to




(a)

prevent injury or death to a person,




(b)

prevent property damage,




(c)

prevent an inmate from escaping, or




(d)

maintain custody and control of an inmate.




(2)

A physical restraint device must not be used to restrain an inmate for
more than 4 continuous hours unless




(a)

authorized by the person in charge under subsection (3), or




(b)

the inmate is on an escorted absence from the correctional centre.




(3)

The person in charge may authorize the use of a physical restraint
device to restrain an inmate for more than 4 continuous hours but,
unless subsection (4) applies, for no more than 16 continuous hours,
if




(a)

the person in charge believes on reasonable grounds that the use of
the physical restraint device is necessary for the safety of the
inmate or for the safety of another person, and




(b)

other means of control of the inmate have been exhausted or are not
reasonable in the circumstances.




(4)

The person in charge may authorize the use of a physical restraint
device to restrain an inmate for more than 16 continuous hours with
approval from the provincial director.




(5)

If the person in charge authorizes the use of a physical restraint
device under subsection (4), the person in charge must review the
condition of the inmate with the provincial director every 12 hours
following the approval of the provincial director while the physical
restraint device is being used.




(6)

The provincial director may at any time revoke the approval under
subsection (4).


[am. B.C. Regs. 124/2020, s. 3; 76/2022, s. 4; 34/2023, s. 6.]






Searches




10

(1)


In this section:



"frisk search"

means a hand search or a search by use of a hand-held screening
device, conducted by an authorized person,




(a)

of a clothed person, from head to foot, down the front and rear of the
body, around the legs, and inside clothing folds, pockets and
footwear, and




(b)

of any personal possessions, including clothing, that the person may
be carrying or wearing;



"screening search"

means a search by an authorized person of a clothed person and any
personal possessions, including clothing, that the person may be
carrying or wearing, that is conducted visually or with the use of a
screening device, including a drug detection dog, ion spectrometry
device, CO
2
detector, walk-through or hand-held metal detector or other screening
device that is approved by the person in charge or a staff member
designated by the person in charge.




(2)

A search conducted in accordance with section 13 (1) to (3), 14 (1) or
(4) (a), or 15 (1) (a) or (3) (a) of the Act may be conducted by a
frisk search or a screening search.

[am. B.C. Reg. 34/2023, s. 7.]





Strip searches — general




11

(1)


In the Act and in this section and section 12,
"strip search"
means a visual inspection by an authorized person of a nude person
that includes




(a)

a visual inspection of the following:




(i)

the person undressing completely;




(ii)

the open mouth, hands or arms of the person;




(iii)

the soles of the feet and the insides of the ears of the person;




(iv)

the person running their fingers through their hair;




(v)

the person bending over, and




(b)

the person otherwise enabling the authorized person to perform the
visual inspection.




(2)

If the circumstances allow, an authorized person must, before
conducting a strip search,




(a)

inform the person to be strip searched of the reasons for the strip
search, and




(b)

explain how a strip search is conducted.




(3)

A strip search that is conducted by an authorized person must be




(a)

observed by one other authorized person,




(b)

carried out in as private an area as the circumstances allow, and




(c)

carried out as quickly as the circumstances allow.




(4)

The authorized person referred to in subsection (3) (a) must be the
same gender as the person who is the subject of a strip search unless
the person in charge, or a staff member designated by the person in
charge, believes on reasonable grounds that the delay that would be
necessary in order to comply with this requirement would result in
danger to human life or safety.

[am. B.C. Regs. 76/2022, s. 11; 34/2023, s. 2.]





Strip searches under certain circumstances




12

(1)


This section does not apply if a strip search is conducted in the
following circumstances:




(a)

on admission, entry, transfer or return of an inmate to the
correctional centre;




(b)

on entry to or return from a cell in the segregation unit by an
inmate;




(c)

on return of an inmate from a visit, work or program area in the
correctional centre if the inmate could have had access to an item
that is contraband and that may be hidden on or in the inmate's body.




(2)

In order for an authorized person to conduct a strip search in
circumstances other than those listed in subsection (1), the
authorized person must




(a)

believe on reasonable grounds that the inmate may be in possession of
contraband or evidence relating to an offence under section 17 of the
Act,




(b)

believe on reasonable grounds that a strip search is necessary in the
circumstances, and




(c)

obtain the authorization of the person in charge or a deputy or
assistant deputy of the person in charge, unless the authorized person
believes on reasonable grounds that the delay that would be necessary
in order to comply with this requirement would result in danger to
human life or safety or in loss or destruction of evidence.




(3)

The person referred to in subsection (2) (c) must, before giving the
authorization referred to in that paragraph, be satisfied that a strip
search is necessary in the circumstances.




(4)

An authorized person who conducts a strip search under this section
must complete a written report of the strip search and submit the
report to the person in charge as soon as practicable.

[am. B.C. Reg. 34/2023, s. 8.]





Privileged communication




13


Communication between an inmate and the following is a privileged
communication:




(a)

the assistant deputy minister;




(b)

the provincial director;




(c)

the person in charge;




(d)

the director;




(e)

a member of Parliament or of the Legislative Assembly;




(f)

the Ombudsperson;




(g)

if the inmate is detained or subject to a warrant for arrest and
detention under the
Immigration Act
(Canada), an immigration officer as defined in that Act, or, if the
inmate is detained or subject to a warrant for arrest and detention
under the

Immigration and Refugee Protection Act

(Canada), a person designated as an officer under that Act;




(h)

the inmate's lawyer, or a lawyer from a jurisdiction other than
British Columbia who is able to satisfy the person in charge that the
lawyer is qualified to practise law in that jurisdiction and is a
lawyer representing the inmate in respect of a legal matter in that
jurisdiction;




(i)

the B.C. Human Rights Clinic.


[am. B.C. Regs. 243/2015, Sch. 1, s. 2; 76/2022, s. 3.]






Inmate communication




14

(1)


In the Act and this section,
"monitor"
means




(a)

to listen to an inmate communication that is made by electronic means
or to an inmate communication that was made by electronic means and
recorded, or




(b)

to read inmate communication delivered to the correctional centre or
sent from within the correctional centre.




(2)

Inmate communication by telephone or other electronic means may be
recorded.




(3)

Inmate communication may be monitored or recorded by an authorized
person if the authorized person has reasonable grounds to believe that




(a)

the inmate is




(i)

involved in illegal activities,




(ii)

harassing or causing harm to others, or




(iii)

participating in an activity that may jeopardize the management,
operation or security of the correctional centre, or




(b)

the monitoring is necessary to maintain or repair the recording system
and the monitoring is performed only for the length of time and to the
extent that is necessary to effect the maintenance or repair.




(4)

Inmate communication by mail may be intercepted and examined by an
authorized person to determine if the mail contains contraband.




(5)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 191/2007, s. 1 (b).]

[am. B.C. Reg. 191/2007, s. 1.]





Circumstances and manners of disclosure




14.1


An authorized person may do one or both of the following:




(a)

attach the name and address of the correctional centre to inmate
communication or privileged communication, if the recipient is outside
of the correctional centre;




(b)

at the beginning of an inmate communication or of a privileged
communication by telephone to a place outside of the correctional
centre, play a recorded announcement that the telephone call comes
from the correctional centre.

[en. B.C. Reg. 191/2007, s. 2.]





Retention of inmate communication




15

(1)


A recording of an inmate communication made under section 14 (2) or
(3) may be retained for a period not longer than 30 days, unless there
are reasonable grounds to believe that the inmate is




(a)

involved in illegal activities,




(b)

harassing or causing harm to others, or




(c)

participating in an activity that may jeopardize the management,
operation or security of the correctional centre.




(2)

A recording of an inmate communication under section 14 (2) or (3)
must not, without lawful authority, be released or disclosed by a
person employed in or about a correctional centre.

[am. B.C. Reg. 191/2007, s. 3.]





Urinalysis demand




16

(1)


If an authorized person demands that an inmate submit to urinalysis,
the authorized person must ensure that the following procedures are
followed in taking the urine sample:




(a)

the authorized person must be the same gender as the inmate;




(b)

the inmate must wash the inmate's hands before providing a sample;




(c)

the authorized person must provide the inmate with a container for the
sample and must be present as the inmate provides the sample;




(d)

the authorized person must give the inmate up to 2 hours from the time
of a demand to provide a sample;




(e)

the authorized person must ensure that the inmate is kept separate
from other people except the authorized person, and is not left alone
during the period referred to in paragraph (d);




(f)

once the sample has been provided, the authorized person must, in the
presence of the inmate,




(i)

seal the container,




(ii)

affix a label to the container identifying the sample in a manner that
does not disclose the identity of the inmate to the laboratory, and




(iii)

certify on the label that the container contains the sample provided
by the inmate;




(g)

the authorized person must keep a written record that indicates the
number on the container that corresponds to the name of the inmate.




(2)

If the demand to submit to urinalysis is made under section 20 (1) (a)
of the Act, the authorized person must obtain the authorization of the
person in charge before making the demand.




(3)

If an inmate fails to provide a urine sample and the requirements of
subsection (1) have otherwise been met, the inmate is considered to
have failed to comply with the demand to submit to urinalysis.

[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 4.]





Separate confinement — short term




17

(1)


The person in charge or a staff member designated by the person in
charge may order that an inmate be confined separately from other
inmates if




(a)

the person in charge or the staff member believes on reasonable
grounds that the inmate




(i)

is endangering themselves or is likely to endanger themselves,




(ii)

is endangering another person or is likely to endanger another person,




(iii)

is jeopardizing the management, operation or security of the
correctional centre or is likely to jeopardize the management,
operation or security of the correctional centre,




(iv)

would be at risk of serious harm or is likely to be at risk of serious
harm if not confined separately, or




(v)

must be confined separately for a medical reason, or




(vi)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 243/2015, Sch. 1, s. 3 (a).]




(b)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 243/2015, Sch. 1, s. 3 (b).]




(c)

the person in charge or the staff member has reasonable grounds to
believe that the inmate has contraband hidden in the inmate's body.




(2)

Subject to section 18 (1), an inmate who is confined separately under
subsection (1) of this section must be released from separate
confinement as follows:




(a)

within 72 hours of the start of the confinement, if the confinement
was ordered by the person in charge or by a deputy or assistant deputy
of the person in charge;




(b)

within 7 hours of the start of the confinement in any other case.




(3)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 243/2015, Sch. 1, s. 3 (b).]




(4)

The person in charge, or a staff member designated by the person in
charge, must, within 24 hours of making an order under subsection (1)
to confine an inmate separately from other inmates, give the inmate
the reason for the confinement under subsection (1) in writing.


[am. B.C. Regs. 243/2015, Sch. 1, s. 3; 124/2020, s. 4; 76/2022, s.
11; 34/2023, ss. 2 and 9.]






Separate confinement — longer term




18

(1)


If an inmate is ordered to be confined separately under section 17 (1)
(a), the person in charge, or a staff member designated by the person
in charge, may decide to extend the order for one or more periods of
not longer than 15 days each, provided that the person in charge or
the staff member




(a)

reviews the circumstances of the separate confinement before




(i)

the inmate must be released under section 17 (2), or




(ii)

the expiry of an extension made under this subsection,




(b)

determines that the circumstances that justified the order under
section 17 (1) (a) still exist, and




(c)

determines that the separate confinement should continue.




(2)

An extension under subsection (1) begins on the day after the person
in charge or the staff member makes the decision to extend.




(3)

The person in charge, or a staff member designated by the person in
charge, must, within 24 hours of making a decision to extend an order
to confine an inmate separately from other inmates,




(a)

give the inmate, in writing,




(i)

the reason for the confinement under subsection (1),




(ii)

the period of time during which the inmate will be in separate
confinement, and




(iii)

the reason for the length of time of separate confinement, and




(b)

give the inmate a reasonable opportunity to make submissions about why
the separate confinement should not continue or why the separate
confinement should be for a shorter period of time.




(4)

After considering the submissions made by the inmate under subsection
(3) (b), the person in charge or the staff member must, within a
reasonable period of time,




(a)

confirm the decision,




(b)

vary the decision, or




(c)

rescind the decision.




(5)

When the person in charge or the staff member confirms, varies or
rescinds a decision under subsection (4), the inmate must be notified
and must be given written reasons.


[am. B.C. Regs. 243/2015, Sch. 1, s. 4; 76/2022, ss. 4 and 11;
34/2023, s. 10.]






Voluntary separate confinement




19

(1)


If the person in charge, or a staff member designated by the person in
charge, and an inmate agree that the inmate would be at risk of
serious harm or is likely to be at risk of serious harm if not
confined separately, the person in charge, or the staff member, and
the inmate may agree that the inmate be confined separately from other
inmates.




(2)

The person in charge or the staff member referred to in subsection (1)
must confirm the agreement under that subsection to the inmate in
writing.




(3)

If the person in charge, or the staff member referred to in subsection
(1), and an inmate are in agreement in accordance with that
subsection, the inmate may be confined separately from other inmates
and may at any time request in writing that the person in charge
review the separate confinement.

[am. B.C. Reg. 34/2023, s. 11.]





Termination of separate confinement




20


Despite anything in section 17
[separate confinement — short term]
, 18
[separate confinement — longer term]
or 19
[voluntary separate confinement]
, the person in charge, or a staff member designated by the person in
charge, may at any time terminate the separate confinement of an
inmate.

[am. B.C. Reg. 34/2023, s. 2.]





Quarantine units




20.1

(1)


The person in charge may order that an inmate be housed in the
quarantine unit if the person in charge believes on reasonable grounds
that




(a)

quarantine is necessary to mitigate the risk of transmitting a
communicable disease, within the meaning of the

Public Health Act

, and




(b)

the communicable disease presents a significant risk of causing
serious illness or death to a person.




(2)

The person in charge must review an order made under subsection (1)




(a)

as soon as practicable if the circumstances that justified the order
have changed or no longer exist, and




(b)

at least every 30 days until the inmate is released from the
quarantine unit.




(3)

If, on a review under subsection (2), the person in charge determines
that the circumstances that justified the order no longer exist, the
person in charge must release the inmate from the quarantine unit.

[en. B.C. Reg. 320/2021, s. 3.]



Division 2 — Discipline





Rules governing conduct of inmates




21

(1)


An inmate must not




(a)

disobey a direction of a staff member or of the person in charge,




(b)

enter an area of the correctional centre in which an inmate is not
authorized to be without the permission of a staff member,




(c)

enter a cell or living unit that is not assigned to the inmate without
the permission of a staff member,




(d)

willfully or recklessly damage or destroy property that is not
property of the inmate,




(e)

steal or possess stolen property,




(f)

possess property or food that is not the property or food of the
inmate without the permission of a staff member,




(g)

unless unreasonably provoked by that person, behave in an insulting or
abusive manner toward a person,




(h)

behave in manner toward a person that shows hatred or contempt for the
person based on the person's race, colour, ancestry, place of origin,
religion, marital status, family status, physical or mental
disability, sex, sexual orientation or age,




(i)

engage in an indecent act,




(j)

engage in horseplay or roughhousing,




(k)

physically fight with another person,




(l)

take an intoxicant into the inmate's body,




(m)

tattoo or pierce the inmate's body,




(n)

fail to comply with a demand to submit to urinalysis,




(o)

obstruct a staff member in the execution of the staff member's duties,




(p)

provide a false or misleading statement to a staff member,




(q)

offer, give or accept a bribe,




(r)

gamble,




(s)

give to or accept from another inmate money or other property, or
food, without the permission of a staff member,




(t)

refuse to attend work or a program or leave work or a program without
the permission of a staff member or a reasonable excuse,




(u)

conceal the inmate's face,




(v)

use a tobacco or vapour product within the meaning of the

Tobacco and Vapour Products Control Act

without the permission of a staff member,




(w)

assault or threaten another person,




(x)

be unlawfully at large or escape custody,




(y)

attempt to obtain, or possess contraband,




(z)

give or sell contraband to another inmate,




(z.1)

create or participate in a disturbance, or




(z.2)

engage in an activity that jeopardizes or is likely to jeopardize




(i)

the safety of a person, or




(ii)

the management, operation or security of the correctional centre.




(2)

An inmate must not assist or attempt to assist another inmate to do
anything referred to in subsection (1).




(3)

An inmate who breaches a rule referred to in subsection (1) or (2) may
be disciplined for the breach in accordance with this Division.


[am. B.C. Regs. 243/2015, Sch. 1, s. 5 and Sch. 2; 76/2022, s. 4.]






Breach of rule




22

(1)


If a staff member believes on reasonable grounds that an inmate has
breached or is breaching a rule referred to in section 21 (1) or (2),
the staff member must, if the circumstances allow,




(a)

stop the breach from occurring, or




(b)

give the inmate an opportunity to stop the breach from occurring or
give the inmate an opportunity to correct the breach if the person
aggrieved by the breach consents,

and inform the inmate



(c)

of the rule under section 21 (1) or (2) that was breached, and




(d)

what the breach consists of.




(2)

If, in the opinion of the staff member referred to in subsection (1),
the breach has not been or cannot be satisfactorily resolved by the
actions described in that subsection, the staff member must, as soon
as practicable, file a written report with the person in charge,
setting out




(a)

the rule that is alleged to have been breached,




(b)

the circumstances surrounding the alleged breach, and




(c)

the action taken, if any, under subsection (1) (b).




(3)

On receipt of the report referred to in subsection (2), the person in
charge, or a staff member designated by the person in charge, must
determine whether to order that a disciplinary hearing be convened.

[am. B.C. Reg. 34/2023, s. 2.]





Notice of alleged breach




23


The person in charge, or a staff member designated by the person in
charge, must, as soon as practicable, give written notice to an inmate
who is the subject of a determination under section 22 (3) to convene
a disciplinary hearing, setting out the




(a)

rule the inmate is alleged to have breached,




(b)

circumstances surrounding the alleged breach,




(c)

proposed date and time of the hearing, and




(d)

reason under section 24 (1) for any order made under that section.

[am. B.C. Reg. 34/2023, s. 2.]





Segregation pending disciplinary hearing




24

(1)


The person in charge, or a staff member designated by the person in
charge, may order that an inmate be confined in a cell in the
segregation unit pending the conclusion of a disciplinary hearing if
the person in charge or the staff member believes on reasonable
grounds that




(a)

the inmate is likely to endanger themselves or another person if
housed in a cell outside of the segregation unit,




(b)

the inmate is likely to jeopardize the management, operation or
security of the correctional centre if housed in a cell outside of the
segregation unit, or




(c)

it is necessary to preserve evidence for the disciplinary hearing.




(2)

An order made under subsection (1) must be reviewed by the person in
charge, or a staff member designated by the person in charge, within
24 hours of being made and at least every 24 hours until the inmate is
released from confinement.




(3)

If, on a review under subsection (2), the person who carried out the
review determines that the circumstances referred to in subsection (1)
no longer exist, the inmate must be released from confinement in a
cell in the segregation unit.


[am. B.C. Regs. 76/2022, s. 11; 34/2023, ss. 2 and 12.]






Disciplinary hearing




25

(1)


A disciplinary hearing must be presided over by a person appointed by
the assistant deputy minister.




(2)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 124/2020, s. 5 (b).]




(3)

A person appointed under subsection (1) who is not an employee under
the

Public Service Act

may be paid the amount set by Treasury Board Directive 3/04 for a
Tribunal Group 1 member.

[am. B.C. Reg. 124/2020, s. 5.]





Conduct of hearing




26

(1)


A disciplinary hearing must be commenced as soon as practicable and no
later than 72 hours from the time of the order to convene a
disciplinary hearing under section 22 (3).




(2)

A disciplinary hearing may be commenced under subsection (1) without
the inmate present




(a)

if the inmate is absent from the correctional centre because the
inmate




(i)

is in court,




(ii)

is absent for a medical reason,




(iii)

is authorized or required by an enactment of Canada or the Province to
be somewhere else,




(iv)

has escaped from custody, or




(v)

is unlawfully at large,




(b)

the inmate refuses or chooses not to attend the hearing, or




(c)

if, in the reasonable opinion of the person in charge, or of a staff
member designated by the person in charge, the inmate's behaviour
prior to the hearing is so disruptive that the inmate cannot safely be
escorted to the hearing.




(3)

A disciplinary hearing must be adjourned if the inmate is not present,
unless




(a)

the inmate refuses or chooses not to attend the hearing, or




(b)

if, in the opinion of the person presiding over the hearing, acting
reasonably,




(i)

the presence of the inmate at the hearing would jeopardize the safety
of a person at the hearing, or




(ii)

the inmate is causing serious disruption to the hearing.




(4)

A disciplinary hearing must be recorded.




(5)

The person presiding over the disciplinary hearing may conduct the
hearing in person or by way of telephone, video conference or other
communication medium.

[am. B.C. Regs. 124/2020, s. 6; 34/2023, s. 13.]





Penalties for breach of rule




27

(1)


If an inmate is found to have breached a rule referred to in section
21 (1) or (2)
[rules governing conduct of inmates]
, the person presiding over the disciplinary hearing may impose one or
more of the following penalties:




(a)

a warning or reprimand;




(b)

a temporary or permanent restriction on activities or programs, other
than a visit program, unless the breach is directly related to a visit
program;




(c)

intermittent confinement in a cell, other than a cell in the
segregation unit, for a period not longer than 192 hours;




(d)

subject to subsection (3), confinement in a cell in the
segregation unit for a period not longer than 15 days;




(e)

assignment of extra duties for a period not longer than 12 hours;




(f)

forfeiture of earned remission, credited to the date of the breach, of
not more than 60 days.




(2)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 124/2020, s. 7 (b).]




(3)

If an inmate is ordered to be confined in a cell in the segregation
unit under subsection (1) (d),




(a)

while the inmate is confined to a cell in the segregation unit under
subsection (1) (d) for one or more previous breaches, the
penalties must be served concurrently with confinement ending on the
latest end date of those penalties, or




(b)

while the inmate is confined to a cell in the segregation unit under
section 24, the number of days served by the inmate in the cell in the
segregation unit under section 24 must be subtracted from the number
of days the inmate is ordered to be confined in a cell in the
segregation unit under subsection (1) (d).




(4)

On application or on the person's own motion, the person who presided
over a disciplinary hearing may reduce or suspend all or part of a
penalty imposed under subsection (1), with or without conditions, for
a period not longer than 90 days.




(5)

If an inmate applies to the person who presided over a disciplinary
hearing for a reduction or suspension of the penalty imposed, the
person who presided over the disciplinary hearing or, if that person
is not available, an employee under the

Public Service Act

who is either designated by the assistant deputy minister or in a
class of persons designated by the assistant deputy minister, must
make a decision within 5 days of receipt of the application and
advise the inmate of the decision, the reasons and any conditions in
writing.




(6)

If an inmate does not comply with a condition imposed under subsection
(4) or (5),




(a)

the person in charge may order that a disciplinary hearing about the
failure to comply with the condition be convened, and




(b)

if the person presiding over the disciplinary hearing referred to in
paragraph (a) determines at the conclusion of the hearing that the
inmate did not comply with a condition, the person presiding over the
hearing must reimpose the previously reduced or suspended penalty.


[am. B.C. Regs. 243/2015, Sch. 1, s. 6; 124/2020, s. 7; 76/2022, s.
4.]






Written reasons for decision




28


As soon as practicable after conclusion of the hearing, a person who
presides over a disciplinary hearing must provide written reasons to
the inmate for the decision and the penalty imposed.






Review of decision




29

(1)


An inmate may, within 7 days of a decision being made under section
27, request in writing that the director review the decision and the
penalty imposed.




(2)

On receipt of a request for a review under subsection (1), the person
in charge must immediately provide the director with a record of the
disciplinary hearing and information used in the hearing.




(3)

The director may suspend a penalty imposed under section 27 pending
completion of the review.




(4)

The director may




(a)

confirm the decision made and the penalty imposed under section 27,




(b)

confirm the decision made and substitute another penalty under section
27, or




(c)

rescind the decision made and the penalty imposed under section 27,
and




(i)

direct that the person in charge change the inmate's record to reflect
the rescission, or




(ii)

direct that a new disciplinary hearing be convened.




(5)

If a new disciplinary hearing is directed to be convened under
subsection (4) (c) (ii),




(a)

the assistant deputy minister, or an employee under the

Public Service Act

who is either designated by the assistant deputy minister or in a
class of persons designated by the assistant deputy minister, must, as
soon as practicable, appoint a person, who has had no previous
involvement with the allegation against the inmate, to rehear the
allegation,




(b)

the person appointed under paragraph (a) must rehear the allegation as
soon as practicable, and




(c)

sections 26,
[conduct of hearing]
, 27
[penalties for breach of rules]
and 28
[written reasons for decision]
apply to the new disciplinary hearing.

[am. B.C. Reg. 124/2020, s. 8.]



Division 3 — Visitors





Visitors — personal




30

(1)


A visitor must not enter a correctional centre unless authorized by
the person in charge, or a staff member designated by the person in
charge.




(2)

If, in the reasonable opinion of the person in charge, or of a staff
member designated by the person in charge, it is necessary for the
management, operation or security of the correctional centre, the
person in charge or the staff member may do one or more of the
following:




(a)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 34/2023, s. 14 (b).]




(b)

prohibit or restrict a person from visiting with an inmate;




(c)

order that a visit with an inmate be supervised;




(d)

place restrictions on or make allowances for the nature, timing,
frequency, length or location of a visit with an inmate.




(2.1)

Any staff member may order the removal of a visitor from the
correctional centre or from part of the correctional centre.




(3)

If, in the opinion of a staff member, acting reasonably, the conduct
of a visitor or of an inmate who is being visited is jeopardizing the
management, operation or security of the correctional centre, the
staff member




(a)

may terminate the visit by the visitor with the inmate and must report
the termination of the visit to the person in charge, and




(b)

may order the removal of a visitor from the correctional centre or
from a part of the correctional centre.

[am. B.C. Reg. 34/2023, ss. 2, 13 and 14.]





Visitors — official




31

(1)


Subject to subsections (3) and (4), the following may, while on
official business, visit an inmate at any reasonable time:




(a)

the assistant deputy minister;




(b)

the provincial director;




(c)

a peace officer on duty;




(d)

the inmate's lawyer in respect of




(i)

a charge against the inmate under the

Criminal Code

or another federal enactment or under a provincial enactment,




(ii)

a matter for which the inmate is detained or subject to detention
under the
Immigration Act
(Canada) or the

Immigration and Refugee Protection Act

(Canada), or




(iii)

a breach of a rule governing the conduct of inmates;




(e)

a lawyer from a jurisdiction other than British Columbia who is able
to satisfy the person in charge that the lawyer is qualified to
practise law and is a lawyer representing the inmate in respect of a
criminal charge against the inmate;




(f)

a member of Parliament or of the Legislative Assembly;




(g)

the Ombudsperson.




(2)

The person in charge must ensure that a visit by a visitor referred to
in subsection (1) can be held in private.




(3)

Section 30 does not apply to a visitor referred to in subsection (1)
except as follows:




(a)

section 30 (2) (a) and (c) applies to a visitor referred to in
subsection (1);




(b)

section 30 (2) (d) applies to a visitor referred to in subsection (1)
(c), (d), (e) and (f).




(4)

The person in charge, or a staff member designated by the person in
charge, may authorize the refusal, suspension or termination of a
visit by a visitor referred to in subsection (1), but only if the
person in charge or the staff member believes on reasonable grounds
that




(a)

the visit is jeopardizing or would jeopardize the management,
operation or security of the correctional centre or the safety of a
person, and




(b)

in the case of a visitor referred to in subsection (1) (c), (d), (e)
or (f), restrictions on the nature, timing, length and location of the
visit would not be adequate to address the risk referred to in
paragraph (a).


[am. B.C. Regs. 243/2015, Sch. 1, s. 7; 76/2022, s. 3; 34/2023, s.
15.]




Division 4 — Performance Appraisal and Earned Remission





Performance appraisal




32

(1)


A staff member must appraise the performance of each sentenced inmate.




(2)

An appraisal must include the evaluation of the inmate's




(a)

compliance with the rules governing the conduct of inmates, and




(b)

level of participation in programs established under section 38
[programs for inmates]
that are not religious programs.






Remission awards assessor




33

(1)


The person in charge, or a staff member designated by the person in
charge, must appoint one or more staff members to be remission awards
assessors for the correctional centre.




(2)

A remission awards assessor or panel of remission awards assessors
must determine the amount of earned remission to be credited to each
inmate and must, in relation to each inmate,




(a)

review the running record and appraisals of an inmate's performance
since the inmate's last earned remission credit, and




(b)

determine the number of days of earned remission to be credited to the
inmate in accordance with this Division.

[am. B.C. Regs. 76/2022, s. 4; 34/2023, s. 2.]





Calculation of remission award




34

(1)


A remission award assessor or panel of remission awards assessors must
credit earned remission




(a)

for each inmate, within 5 days of the end of the previous month, or




(b)

for an inmate about to be discharged, at the time of discharge for the
days served since the inmate's last earned remission credit,

whichever is applicable.



(2)

An earned remission credit for a portion of month must




(a)

be made on the basis of one day's earned remission credit for each
full two days that are served,




(b)

be based on an assessment of the matters referred to in section 32 (2)
(a) and (b), and




(c)

result in a monthly earned remission credit as follows:




(i)

good performance, 15 days;




(ii)

fair performance, 8 to 14 days;




(iii)

poor performance, 0 to 7 days.




(3)

A disciplinary hearing that is ordered to be convened under section 22
(3) but is not yet concluded must not be considered in evaluating an
inmate's compliance with the rules governing the conduct of inmates.

[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 4.]





Review of remission awards assessor decision




35

(1)


If full earned remission is not credited, the remission awards
assessor must notify the inmate and the person in charge and give the
reason in writing.




(2)

An inmate who is not satisfied with the inmate's earned remission
credit may, within 7 days of receipt of notification of the credit,
apply in writing to the person in charge for a review of the decision
of the remission awards assessor or panel of remission awards
assessors.




(3)

Within 7 days of receiving the inmate's request for a review, the
person in charge must review the assessor's or panel's decision and




(a)

confirm the earned remission credit,




(b)

increase the number of earned remission days credited, or




(c)

reduce the number of earned remission days credited.




(4)

The person in charge must notify the inmate and the remission awards
assessor of that person's decision under subsection (3) as soon as
practicable and give the reason in writing.

[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 4.]



Division 5 — Property





Forfeiture of unclaimed property




36


Unclaimed property abandoned by an inmate at a correctional centre on
the inmate's release, transfer or escape from the correctional centre
and not claimed by the inmate within 30 days from the date of the
release, transfer or escape is forfeited to the government.

[am. B.C. Regs. 219/2018; 76/2022, s. 4.]



Division 6 — Inmate Complaints





Complaint to person in charge




37

(1)


An inmate may make a written complaint to a staff member who must
forward it, as soon as practicable, to the person in charge.




(2)

The person in charge must, within 7 days of the receipt of the
complaint, investigate the complaint and advise the inmate, in
writing, of the results of the investigation as soon as practicable.




(3)

The person in charge must keep a record of




(a)

written complaints,




(b)

the manner in which the complaints are resolved, and




(c)

the written advice given to an inmate under subsection (2) as a result
of the investigation of a complaint.




Division 7 — Programs and Services for Inmates





Programs for inmates




38

(1)


The person in charge, or a staff member designated by the person in
charge, must establish programs for inmates, including religious and
recreation programs.




(2)

As far as practicable, a person who establishes programs under
subsection (1) must establish programs designed to assist inmates to




(a)

improve their education or training, and




(b)

reduce the risk they present to the community.




(3)

An inmate must participate in programs as directed by the person in
charge, or a staff member designated by the person in charge, unless




(a)

the inmate is excused in writing by a health care professional,




(b)

the program is a religious program and the inmate does not choose to
participate in it,




(c)

the program conflicts with a recognized day of religious observance of
the religious faith that the inmate practises, or




(d)

the program is a work program and the inmate has not consented under
section 3 (b).


[am. B.C. Regs. 124/2020, s. 9; 76/2022, s. 11; 34/2023, ss. 2 and
16.]






Medical fitness of inmate




39

(1)


For the purposes of this regulation, the person in charge, or a staff
member designated by the person in charge, must review the following
information any time it is provided by a health care professional:




(a)

information relating to an inmate's state of health;




(b)

information relating to an inmate's suitability for a program
established under section 38.




(2)

An inmate may be transferred to another correctional centre only if




(a)

the person in charge, or a staff member designated by the person in
charge, first consults a health care professional about the inmate's
medical fitness for transfer, and




(b)

the health care professional advises the person in charge or the staff
member that the inmate is medically fit for transfer.




(3)

When an inmate is to be released from custody, the person in charge,
or a staff member designated by the person in charge, must consult a
health care professional about the inmate's state of health.




(4)

If the health care professional consulted under subsection (3) advises
the person in charge or the staff member that the inmate suffers from
an acute or dangerous illness, the person in charge or the staff
member must take reasonable steps to facilitate the inmate's access to
treatment, if any, available in the community at the time of release.


[en. B.C. Reg. 178/2017, s. 2; am. B.C. Reg. 34/2023, ss. 2 and 17.]




Part 4 — Powers and Duties of Probation Officers








Probation officer powers and duties




40

(1)


In this section,
"supervision condition"
means a condition that requires a person to report to or be supervised
by a person who has the status of peace officer under any enactment.




(2)

A probation officer is responsible for the supervision of the
following persons:




(a)

a person who is subject to a release order, as defined in section 2 of
the
Criminal Code
, if the order contains a supervision condition;




(b)

a person who has given an undertaking, as defined in section 2 of the
Criminal Code
, to a peace officer, if the undertaking contains a supervision
condition;




(c)

a person who has entered into a recognizance, as defined in section 2
of the
Criminal Code
, if the recognizance contains a supervision condition;




(d)

a person who is subject to a peace bond or similar order made by a
court of criminal jurisdiction or a superior court of criminal
jurisdiction, as those expressions are defined in section 2 of the
Criminal Code
, if the peace bond or order contains a supervision condition;




(e)

a person who is subject to alternative measures, as defined in section
716 of the
Criminal Code
, if the alternative measures, as they relate to the person, require
the involvement of a probation officer.




(3)

A probation officer may report to the court or to a prosecutor if a
person who is subject to a supervision condition fails to comply with
a term or condition to which the person is subject.




(4)

A probation officer may report to a prosecutor if a person who is
subject to alternative measures fails to comply with one or more terms
of the alternative measures.

[en. B.C. Reg. 34/2023, s. 18.]


[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Correction Act

, S.B.C. 2004, c. 46, s. 33.]



