







B.C. Reg. 298/2004

O.C. 660/2004


Deposited June 30, 2004

effective July 4, 2004





This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Cremation, Interment and Funeral Services Act



Cremation, Interment and Funeral

Services Regulation



[Last amended February 10, 2023 by B.C. Reg. 32/2023]




Part 1 â€” General





Definitions




1

(1)


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the

Cremation, Interment and Funeral Services Act

;


"appliance"
means a device designed and constructed for the purpose of cremating
human remains;


"container"
means a receptacle for the purpose of holding, enclosing and
transporting human remains, but does not include a receptacle that is
designed for the purpose of enclosing or partially enclosing another
receptacle in which the human remains are placed in a lot in a
cemetery or mausoleum;


"former Act"
means the

Cemetery and Funeral Services Act

;



"interment right contract"

means a contract that provides for a right of interment for human
remains or cremated remains in a lot;



"professional engineer"

means a person who is registered under the

Professional Governance Act

as a professional engineer or professional licensee engineering;



"professional geoscientist"

means a person who is registered under the

Professional Governance Act

as a professional geoscientist or professional licensee geoscience;



"SkilledTradesBC"

means the corporation continued under section 2 (1) of the

Skilled Trades BC Act

.




(2)

Subject to subsection (3), a word or phrase used in this regulation
that is defined in the

Business Practices and Consumer Protection Act

has the meaning defined in that Act.




(3)

A word or phrase used in this regulation that is defined in this
regulation or in the

Cremation, Interment and Funeral Services Act

has the meaning as defined in this regulation or that Act.


[am. B.C. Regs. 11/2021, App. 3, s. 3; 253/2022, s. 2; 32/2023, Sch.
B, s. 2.]






Respectful handling




2


A person who has possession of human remains must handle the human
remains in a respectful manner.






Persons permitted to transfer human remains




3

(1)


Subject to section 6, only the following people may move human remains
from a place where the remains are held to a place of interment or
cremation, a place where a bereavement rite or ceremony is held, the
business premises or storage facilities of a funeral provider or to a
depot of a common carrier for long distance transport:




(a)

a funeral director licensed under this Act;




(b)

an employee of a licensed funeral provider who is acting under the
supervision of a licensed funeral director;




(c)

a person who, under the direction of a licensed funeral director, is
transferring the remains under a contract with the licensed funeral
provider;




(d)

a person who is acting under a permit issued under subsection (2).




(2)

On request, the director may




(a)

issue a permit authorizing a person to transfer human remains in the
manner described in subsection (1) if the person




(i)

is not acting in the course of the person's business, or




(ii)

is acting in the course of the person's business and, under section
36.1 of this regulation, the person is exempt from the obligation to
be licensed as a funeral provider and a funeral director under section
55 (1) of the Act, and




(b)

establish conditions for the permit.

[am. B.C. Reg. 121/2019, s. 1.]





Manner of transferring human remains




4

(1)


If a person referred to in section 3 is transferring human remains,
the person must transfer the human remains in a manner that prevents
the remains from causing a hazard to the health of any other person.




(2)

If a person referred to in section 3 (1) (d) is transferring human
remains, the person must transfer the human remains in a rigid
container that




(a)

has sufficient strength to contain and move the human remains,




(b)

is constructed so that it does not leak or cause a hazard to the
health of any other person, and




(c)

is capable of being closed so that the public is not able to see the
human remains.






Vehicle for the transfer of human remains




5

(1)


If a person referred to in section 3 (1) (a) to (c), is transferring
human remains, the person must transfer human remains in an enclosed
vehicle that




(a)

is used primarily for that purpose,




(b)

is kept in a sanitary condition,




(c)

is an adequate size to accommodate the full length of the remains,




(d)

has no advertising displayed on its exterior other than the name,
address and telephone number of the person transferring the remains,
and




(e)

is capable of transferring the container containing human remains so
that the container is out of public view.




(2)

If a person referred to in section 3 (1) (d) is transferring human
remains under a permit, the person must transfer the human remains in
a vehicle that




(a)

is in sanitary condition immediately before, during and immediately
after the transfer,




(b)

is an adequate size to accommodate the full length of the remains, and




(c)

is capable of transferring the container containing human remains so
that the container is out of public view.




(3)

A person who is permitted to transfer human remains under section 3
must




(a)

transfer the human remains to the intended destination as quickly as
is practicable, and




(b)

ensure that during the period the human remains are in the vehicle, a
person is in the vehicle or the vehicle is locked and secure.






Transportation of human remains following exhumation or disinterment




6


For the purposes of section 17 of the Act, a funeral provider who is
transporting human remains or is permitting human remains to be
transported to a place outside the cemetery or mausoleum from which
the human remains were exhumed or disinterred must ensure that the
human remains




(a)

are sealed in a container that prevents any seepage of fluids or
escape of gases or offensive odours,




(b)

are transported in a vehicle that is




(i)

kept in sanitary condition,




(ii)

of an adequate size to accommodate the full length of the human
remains, and




(iii)

capable of transferring the container containing human remains so that
the container is out of public view,




(c)

unless the exhumation or disinterment is ordered by a court or
authorized under section 15 of the

Coroners Act

, are accompanied by a copy of the director's approval of the
exhumation or disinterment under section 16 (2) (b) of the Act, and




(d)

are transported to the intended destination as quickly as is
practicable.






Disposition of human remains




7

(1)


With the approval of the director, human remains may be disposed of at
the place where the person died, if




(a)

the person dies at a remote location in British Columbia, and




(b)

it is impossible or very impracticable to remove the remains of the
person from that location to a cemetery, mausoleum or crematorium.




(2)

An applicant for approval under subsection (1) must provide evidence
to the director that




(a)

the registered owner of the land on which the disposition of human
remains is to occur consents to the disposition, or




(b)

the land on which the disposition is to occur is Crown land that has
been reserved for interment purposes under the

Land Act

.




(3)

Section 55 (1) of the Act does not apply in circumstances where the
director grants approval under subsection (1).






Disposition of unclaimed cremated remains




8

(1)


An operator of a crematorium or a funeral provider may dispose of
cremated remains in the possession of the operator or funeral provider
only if all of the following conditions are met:




(a)

no person referred to in section 5 (1) (a) to (k) of the Act has
claimed the right to control the disposition of cremated remains
during the one year period immediately following cremation;




(b)

the operator or funeral provider has published a notice that




(i)

provides the information referred to in subsection (2),




(ii)

is placed in 2 issues of a newspaper circulating in the area in which
the cremation was arranged, and




(iii)

is published in the newspapers referred to in subparagraph (ii) at
least 14 days apart;




(c)

no person referred to in section 5 (1) (a) to (k) of the Act claimed
the remains within the 30 day period after the date of the second
publication referred to in paragraph (b) (iii).




(2)

The notice referred to in subsection (1) (b) must include the
following:




(a)

the name of the deceased person whose cremated remains have not been
claimed;




(b)

the name of the operator or funeral provider that is proposing to
dispose of the cremated remains;




(c)

the location, and the projected date and time at which the cremated
remains are to be disposed of;




(d)

a statement to the effect that a person with a right to control the
disposition of cremated remains under section 5 of the Act may claim
the cremated remains before the disposition occurs.






Requirements for containers referred to in section 11 of the Act




9


A container referred to in section 11 of the Act must meet the
following requirements:




(a)

it must have sufficient strength to contain and move human remains;




(b)

it must be capable of being closed so that the public is not able to
see the human remains;




(c)

it must be constructed so that it does not leak or otherwise cause a
hazard to any person's health;




(d)

it must be rigid.






Containers for cremation




10

(1)


For the purposes of section 12 (c) of the Act, a container that
encloses human remains must be combustible and rigid.




(2)

A funeral director or, if there is no funeral director, the person
referred to in section 5 of the Act who has control over the human
remains, must ensure that the container enclosing the human remains
for the purpose of cremation does not contain any of the following:




(a)

plastic;




(b)

fiberglass;




(c)

foam or styrofoam;




(d)

rubber;




(e)

polyvinyl chloride;




(f)

zinc.






Identification of funeral provider or operator




11


A funeral provider and an operator may advertise, contract, operate or
otherwise carry on business in British Columbia only under the name
that appears on the licence issued to the funeral provider or
operator, as the case may be.






Identification of affiliation




12

(1)


A person who is an operator, a funeral provider or a memorial dealer
must clearly state the person's business address, in all directories,
and advertising and marketing materials.




(2)

If an operator, a funeral provider or a memorial dealer is a
corporation that is owned in whole or in part by a public company, as
defined in the

Business Corporations Act

, the operator, funeral provider or memorial dealer, as the case may
be, must state this fact clearly in all contracts, business letterhead
and advertising and marketing materials of the operator, funeral
provider or memorial dealer.




(3)

A society established for the purpose of making available funeral
services or cemetery services or both to its members must disclose to
each potential member and, on request, to each member all contractual
relationships that the society has at the time with funeral providers,
operators and memorial dealers.

[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 4.]





Prohibited charges




13


An operator and a funeral provider must not charge for holding or
storing cremated remains during the 60Â day period following
cremation.






Term of licences




14

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), the director may issue a licence under
section 55 (1) of the Act for a term that is not greater than 3 years.




(2)

The director may issue a licence for any term to an applicant for the
purpose of operating a place of interment on a non commercial basis.






Location of licensed activity




15


A funeral provider and an operator must have a licence for each
location from which the funeral provider or operator conducts business
in British Columbia.






Reporting to a director




16


If a licensed funeral provider or a licensed operator is a
corporation, the funeral provider or operator must report to the
director in writing within 14Â days of the change occurring




(a)

a change in the senior officers, as defined in the

Business Corporations Act

, of the corporation, and




(b)

a material change in the beneficial ownership of the shares of the
corporation.




Part 2 â€” Places of Interment





Application for certificate of public interest




17


An applicant for a certificate of public interest for a site must
submit to the director the following information:




(a)

a copy of a plan deposited in the Land Title Office;




(b)

the legal description of the site;




(c)

a map that shows the location of the site in relation to surrounding
areas and access roads;




(d)

a report on the site by a professional engineer or professional
geoscientist that includes




(i)

a description of the site and the drainage of the site in respect to
adjoining property and the soil conditions and underlying rock
formations of the site, and




(ii)

an assessment by the professional engineer or professional
geoscientist of the suitability of the site to be used as the proposed
place of interment and a recommendation about the site's suitability
for this use;




(e)

a description of the proposal for development of a place of interment
on the site and, if development is to be carried out in stages, a
statement of the order of development and a description of each stage
of the development of the place of interment;




(f)

in the case of a mausoleum or columbarium to be built on the site, a
plan showing




(i)

the sections, rooms, corridors and other divisions of the proposed
mausoleum and columbarium, and




(ii)

if any descriptive names and numbers are to be applied by the operator
to the sections, rooms, corridors or other divisions, those
descriptive names and numbers;




(g)

evidence that the applicant owns the site or holds an option to
purchase for the site.

[am. B.C. Reg. 11/2021, App. 3, s. 4.]





Application for licence to operate a place of interment




18


An applicant for a licence to act as or purport to be an operator of a
place of interment must submit the following to the director:




(a)

a map that shows




(i)

each proposed area for interment in relation to other areas of the
place of interment,




(ii)

every lot, fence, walk, road, watercourse and building in the place of
interment and the dimensions of each,




(iii)

the total area of the lots and the total area of land in the place of
interment, and




(iv)

descriptive names or numbers for each proposed area for interment;




(b)

if the applicant is a corporation,




(i)

the names of all the directors, senior officers, as defined in the

Business Corporations Act

, and beneficial owners of the voting shares of the corporation, and




(ii)

copies of the most recent financial statements or, if a newly
incorporated company is the applicant, a statement of the proposed
financial organization of the company;




(c)

if the applicant is a partnership, the full name and address of each
partner in the partnership;




(d)

if the applicant is a sole proprietorship, the full name and address
of the proprietor;




(e)

a detailed plan for the future care and maintenance of the property,
including




(i)

the manner in which the applicant proposes to fund the care and
maintenance of the place of interment, and




(ii)

the manner in which the applicant intends to keep monies for the care
and maintenance of the place of interment separate from all other
monies of the applicant;




(f)

a financial feasibility study for the place of interment for each year
of the 5 year period following projected date of receipt of the
licence, that includes




(i)

the amount the applicant expects to spend on land, development and
maintenance, and




(ii)

the source of the funds for the operation of the place of interment.

[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 11.]





Approval for additional areas




19


Before an operator of a place of interment inters human remains or
cremated remains in an area of the place of interment that is not
included in plans provided to the director under section 18 (a) and
(e) for that place of interment, the operator must




(a)

submit to the director plans of the type referred to in section 18 (a)
and (e) for that proposed area of interment, and




(b)

obtain the approval of the director for interring human remains and
cremating remains in this area.






Required amount of contribution to care funds




20

(1)


In subsections (2) and (3), "right of interment" does not include a
right of interment of cremated remains or human remains in a
columbarium niche or mausoleum crypt.




(2)

Except as provided in subsection (3), an operator that has a care fund
for a cemetery must, for each right of interment at the cemetery that
is sold, make a deposit to that fund of not less than 25% of the
selling price of the right of interment.




(3)

An operator of a place of interment listed in Column 1 of Schedule 1
to this regulation must, for the type of right of interment set out
opposite in Column 2 that is sold by the operator, make a deposit to
the care fund of not less than the percentage of the selling price of
the right of interment set out opposite in Column 3.




(4)

Except as provided in subsection (3), an operator that has a care fund
for a mausoleum or columbarium must make a deposit to the care fund of
not less than 10% of the selling price for each right of interment
related to a mausoleum or columbarium.




(5)

An operator that has a care fund for a place of interment must make a
deposit to the care fund of not less than $10 for each memorial
installed at the place of interment.






Administration of care fund




21

(1)


If the director orders an operator to establish a care fund, the
operator must, within 30 days of the date the operator receives an
amount required under sectionÂ 20 to be deposited to the care
fund, pay that amount to a savings institution with instructions that
the funds be placed into the care fund.




(2)

The care fund trust agreement referred to in section 28 (5) (b) of the
Act must include the following terms:




(a)

subject to subsection (3), the trust is irrevocable;




(b)

the trust obligations may be transferred from one savings institution
to another savings institution;




(c)

the trustee must not pay an operator an amount referred to in section
32 (1) of the Act until the trustee has received from the operator an
invoice or other written statement that sets out the amount expended
and the manner in which the operator has expended money for the care
and maintenance of the place of interment;




(d)

the trustee must hold or reinvest the balance of a care fund for a
place of interment that is not required by the operator for the care
and maintenance of that place of interment.




(3)

The care fund trust agreement may be cancelled and the trust revoked
if




(a)

a new trust agreement is entered into under section 31 of the Act,




(b)

the trust agreement is transferred from one savings institution to
another,




(c)

the director approves the cancellation of the trust agreement and the
entering into a new trust agreement with a different savings
institution, or




(d)

the director determines that the trust fund is no longer required as a
result of a decision made under sectionÂ 52 of the Act.






Administration of care fund by municipality, regional district or
improvement district




22

(1)


A care fund held by a municipality, regional district or improvement
district




(a)

must be accounted for as a trust fund,




(b)

may be invested only in the securities approved by the director or
that would be permissible investments for the municipality, regional
district or improvement district concerned if the care fund were a
reserve fund.




(2)

Subject to subsection (4), a local government must invest at least
once each calendar year the funds in a care fund held by the local
government.




(3)

If the funds in a care fund referred to in subsection (1) are less
than $500, no investment is required until the funds in the care fund
equal $500.




(4)

In administering a care fund, a local government must




(a)

hold the money required by section 20 to be deposited to the care fund
in a separate account with a savings institution, and




(b)

deposit the money referred to in paragraph (a) to the care fund on or
immediately prior to each December 31.




(5)

A local government may use the interest and dividend income earned by
a care fund administered for a place of interment operated by the
local government only for the purpose of paying the liabilities of the
local government arising out of care and maintenance services provided
by any person for the place of interment.






Auditors




23


The class of persons referred to in section 30 (1) (b) of the Act is
the class composed of persons each of whom is




(a)

a member, or a partnership whose partners are members, in good
standing of




(i)

the provincial or territorial Institute/Order of Chartered Accountants
within Canada, or




(ii)

the Certified General Accountants Association of British Columbia, or




(b)

a person who is certified by the Auditor Certification Board continued
under the

Business Corporations Act

.






Reporting requirements




24

(1)


This section does not apply to




(a)

a municipality, regional district or improvement district, or




(b)

an operator with respect to a place of interment for which the
operator has established a care fund.




(2)

If requested by the director, an operator of a place of interment must
file with the director, as soon as practicable after receipt of the
request, a report that sets out the manner in which the operator
intends to provide for care and maintenance of the place of interment.




(3)

The report required by subsection (2) must include the following
information respecting the place of interment:




(a)

the operator's average cost of care and maintenance services arising
during the previous 5 years;




(b)

the operator's cost of care and maintenance services arising during
the prior year;




(c)

the cost of care and maintenance services for the next 5 years, as
projected by the operator;




(d)

the manner of obtaining the funds required to pay the costs referred
to in paragraph (c);




(e)

if care and maintenance services are provided by volunteers,




(i)

the total of the number of days that each volunteer was required to
expend in providing care and maintenance services during the previous
5Â years,




(ii)

the average number of days that each volunteer is likely to be
required to expend in providing care and maintenance services for the
next 5Â years, and




(iii)

the number of persons who have agreed to provide, without payment,
care and maintenance services for the place of interment.






Reclamation of right of interment previously sold




25

(1)


With prior approval of the director, an operator may sell a right of
interment for a lot in a place of interment where the right of
interment for the lot has been sold previously, but only if




(a)

the owner of the right of interment is at least 90 years of age or, if
living, would be at least 90 years of age,




(b)

a period of at least 50 years has elapsed from the date the prior
right of interment was sold,




(c)

at least 90 days have passed since the date the operator sent a notice
of the operator's intention to resell the right of interment to the
last known address of the interment right holder and the operator has
not received a response from the interment right holder, and




(d)

the operator has made diligent attempts to contact the interment right
holder but is not able to locate or contact the interment right
holder.




(2)

On receipt of an application from an operator, the director may
approve or reject the application for a sale of the right of interment
with or without conditions.




(3)

If the director refuses the application, the director must give the
applicant written reasons for the decision.




(4)

If a right of interment for a lot is sold in the circumstances
described in subsection (1), and the right of interment is
subsequently required for use by the original interment right holder,
the operator must provide another right of interment of equal or
greater value that is acceptable to the original interment right
holder or the person who has authority under section 5 of the Act with
respect to the deceased interment rights holder.






Application for conversion of place of interment




26


An applicant for preliminary approval for a place of interment under
section 51 (3) of the Act must submit the following to the director:




(a)

a detailed description of the place of interment including




(i)

the location of the place of interment,




(ii)

the number of people interred in the place of interment at the time of
application, and




(iii)

the number of rights of interment with respect to the place of
interment that have been sold but not yet exercised;




(b)

a description of the intended use to which the place of interment is
to be converted and the rationale for the proposed conversion;




(c)

a plan for the conversion that includes the following:




(i)

whether human remains or cremated remains interred at the place of
interment will need to be moved and, if so, to what location and how
this removal is to occur;




(ii)

the effect of the conversion on the rights of interment sold with
respect to the place of interment but not yet exercised, and how the
applicant intends to deal with those affected rights;




(iii)

the effect of the conversion on memorials in the place of interment,
and if the conversion requires relocation or removal of or otherwise
affects the memorials, the manner in which the applicant proposes to
reduce the impact on the memorials;




(iv)

the effect of the conversion on records held with respect to the place
of interment and the applicant's plans respecting the storage and
preservation of those records.






Records related to interments




27

(1)


An operator of a place of interment must keep a record of each
interment that occurs at the place of interment that includes the
following:




(a)

the name of the deceased;




(b)

the date and location of interment;




(c)

the name and mailing address of a person who had a kinship
relationship with the deceased;




(d)

a copy of the written authorization required under section 8 (1) of
the Act from the person who under section 5 of the Act had the right
to control the disposition of human remains and the address of the
person who gave the authorization;




(e)

a copy of the burial permit or if the death occurred outside the
Province, a copy of the burial permit or other document required under
sectionÂ 22 of the

Vital Statistics Act

for the burial of the human remains.




(2)

An operator of a place of interment must keep




(a)

an original or a copy of each interment rights contract for an
interment in the place of interment, and




(b)

if the operator has notice of a transfer of a right of interment, all
relevant information respecting a sale or other transfer of the
interment rights of an interment rights holder.




(3)

Before or at the time that an operator of a place of interment ceases
to carry on business, the operator




(a)

must notify the director of this fact, and




(b)

provide, in a manner satisfactory to the director, for the safekeeping
of the records required to be kept under this section.




(4)

If an operator receives records for safekeeping under subsection (3),
the operator must ensure that the condition of the records does not
deteriorate from the time of receipt by the operator.




Part 3 â€” Crematoria





Application for licence to operate a crematorium




28

(1)


An applicant for a licence to act as or purport to be an operator of
the crematorium must submit to the director a document




(a)

that is executed on behalf of




(i)

the municipal council, if the land is within a municipality,




(ii)

the regional board, if the land is within an electoral area of a
regional district, or




(iii)

the local trust committee, if the land is within a local trust area as
defined in the

Islands Trust Act

, and




(b)

in which the municipal council, the regional board or the local trust
committee, as the case may be, confirms that




(i)

the proposed use is permitted by its bylaws, and




(ii)

the site and the building plans for the crematorium have been approved
by or on behalf of the municipal council, regional board or local
trust committee, as the case may be.




(2)

Subsection (1) applies only with respect to a crematorium that




(a)

has never been operated before, and




(b)

is located within a municipality, an electoral area of a regional
district or a local trust area, as defined in the

Islands Trust Act

.




(3)

An applicant for a licence to act as or purport to be an operator of a
crematorium must submit the following to the director:




(a)

the site and building plans for the crematorium approved by or on
behalf of the appropriate local government;




(b)

a document signed by a professional engineer that certifies that




(i)

the crematorium is constructed in accordance with the plans referred
to in paragraph (a),




(ii)

a test of the operation of the crematorium has been completed and the
test demonstrated that the crematorium operates in accordance with the
manufacturer's specifications, the bylaws of the applicable local
government and the laws of the Province, and




(iii)

the professional engineer has the necessary knowledge, skill and
experience to certify this document;




(c)

if the applicant is a corporation,




(i)

the names of all the directors, senior officers, as defined in the

Business Corporations Act

, and beneficial owners of the voting shares of the corporation, and




(ii)

copies of the most recent financial statements or, if a newly
incorporated company is the applicant, a statement of the proposed
financial organization of the company;




(d)

if the applicant is a partnership, the full name and address of each
partner in the partnership;




(e)

if the applicant is a sole proprietorship, the full name and address
of the proprietor;




(f)

unless a different fee is required by the administrative authority,
the fee required under Schedule 2 to this regulation.

[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 11.]





Obligations of crematorium operator




29

(1)


Before an operator of a crematorium adds an appliance that is not
covered by the operator's licence or modifies or replaces an appliance
for that crematorium, the operator must apply to the director for
approval.




(2)

To apply for approval in the circumstances described in subsection
(1), an operator must submit a certified statement of a professional
engineer that the appliance added, modified or replaced, as the case
may be, is suitable for the cremation of human remains.




(3)

This section does not apply to the annual or other routine maintenance
recommended by the manufacturer of the appliance.






Records related to cremation




30

(1)


An operator of a crematorium must keep records of each cremation
performed at the crematorium that include




(a)

the name of the deceased,




(b)

the date of cremation and the times at which the cremation started and
ended,




(c)

the name and mailing address of a person who had a kinship
relationship with the deceased,




(d)

the person to whom the cremated remains were released,




(e)

a copy of the written authorization required under section 8 (1) of
the Act from the person who under section 5 of the Act had the right
to control the disposition of cremated remains and the address of the
person who gave the authorization, and




(f)

the type of container used for the cremation.




(2)

Before or at the time that an operator of a crematorium ceases to
carry on business, the operator




(a)

must notify the director of this fact, and




(b)

must provide, in a manner satisfactory to the director, for the
safekeeping of the records required to be kept under this section.




Part 4 â€” Funeral Services





Application for licence as funeral provider




31


An applicant for a licence to act as or purport to be a funeral
provider must submit to the director,




(a)

if the applicant is a corporation,




(i)

the names of all the directors, senior officers, as defined in the

Business Corporations Act

, and beneficial owners of the voting shares of the corporation, and




(ii)

copies of the most recent financial statements or, if a newly
incorporated company is the applicant, a statement of the proposed
financial organization of the company,




(b)

if the applicant is a partnership, the full name and address of each
partner in the partnership,




(c)

if the applicant is a sole proprietorship, the full name and address
of the proprietor,




(d)

evidence satisfactory to the director that the applicant complies or
is capable of complying with sections 33 and 32, and




(e)

unless a different fee is required by the administrative authority,
the fee required under Schedule 2 to this regulation.

[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 11.]





Facility requirements for funeral providers




32

(1)


A funeral provider must ensure that any meeting with one or more
customers or potential customers occurs in a separate room that is
private and suitable for the purpose of discussing funeral services.




(2)

If a funeral provider accepts human remains and does not do
disinfecting, preservation or restoration of human remains, the
funeral provider must have at least one separate room for the care and
preparation of human remains prior to disposition, and must ensure
that this room meets the following requirements:




(a)

is at least 11 square metres in size;




(b)

is clearly labeled from the outside to prohibit access by anyone other
than staff of the funeral provider and other authorized persons;




(c)

is well lit and mechanically ventilated to the outside of the
building;




(d)

is capable of being easily disinfected;




(e)

the surfaces of the room are composed of non-porous materials that are
capable of preventing fluids from soaking into them;




(f)

is equipped with a first aid kit;




(g)

contains a holding table or examining table that is capable of being
disinfected easily;




(h)

contains a sink that has hot and cold running water;




(i)

has a vacuum breaker on each water supply for each station in this
room;




(j)

contains storage facilities for equipment and supplies;




(k)

contains enough, protective eyewear and disposable protective covering
for hands, body and feet for each person who works in this room;




(l)

contains sheets or towels;




(m)

contains disinfectants, germicidal soap, paper towels, a pail and mop,
and detergent.




(3)

If a funeral provider disinfects, preserves or restores human remains,
the funeral provider must also ensure that the room referred to in
subsection (2) is equipped with




(a)

a second sink, or the sink referred to in subsection (2) must have two
compartments,




(b)

a continuous flow eyewash facility with a minimum duration of 15
minutes,




(c)

supplies necessary for the disinfection, preservation and restoration
of human remains performed by the funeral provider, and




(d)

sanitary drains for the disposal of bodily fluids and embalming
fluids, that are equipped with splash guards and a backflow valve.

[am. B.C. Reg. 44/2016, s. 1.]





Obligations of funeral providers




33

(1)


For each location at which a funeral provider carries on business, the
funeral provider must




(a)

maintain public liability insurance, unless, under section 36.1 of
this regulation, the funeral provider is exempt from the obligation to
be licensed as a funeral provider under section 55 (1) of the Act,




(b)

employ at least one funeral director, unless the funeral provider is a
funeral director,




(c)

employ or contract with an embalmer, unless the funeral provider is an
embalmer, and




(d)

have refrigeration acceptable to the director for the storage of human
remains.




(2)

Despite subsection (1) (d), a funeral provider is not required to have
refrigeration at each location if the funeral provider has access to
refrigeration for the storage of human remains that is acceptable to
the director.




(3)

A funeral provider must ensure that a location at which the funeral
provider carries on business is separated from other business premises
and has a private entrance from the street or the public area.

[am. B.C. Reg. 121/2019, s. 2.]





Display of containers




34

(1)


A funeral provider must maintain and make available to the public a
book, brochure, internet site or other written or electronic
information that




(a)

shows in a clear and comprehensive manner the entire product line of
containers that the funeral provider offers for sale, and




(b)

includes a photograph or drawing of each container, the make and model
number of each container and the price for each container.




(2)

If a funeral provider has a room or area for the display of containers
or models of containers for examination by the public, the funeral
provider must include in the display room or area




(a)

the funeral provider's lowest-priced container, or a full or partial
replica of the lowest-priced container, and




(b)

a minimum of




(i)

six different containers,




(ii)

full or partial replicas of six different containers, or




(iii)

a combination of containers and models of containers representing six
different containers.




(3)

A funeral provider must ensure that, for each container and model of a
container referred to in subsection (2), the price of the container is
clearly set out and is affixed to the container.

[am. B.C. Reg. 44/2016, s. 2.]





Licensing of funeral directors and embalmers




35

(1)


Subject to subsection (4), an applicant for a licence to act as or
purport to be a funeral director must submit to the director




(a)

evidence that applicant has received




(i)

a certificate of qualification issued by SkilledTradesBC, within the 2
year period immediately before the date the application is filed, for
a program in funeral service education that




(A)

is designated as a recognized program under the

Skilled Trades BC Act

,




(B)

requires that students complete a minimum of 3 600 hours of practical
training that is supervised by a funeral director, and




(C)

requires that students have direct involvement with negotiating,
entering into and administering 50 funeral contracts, or




(ii)

a certificate or other document evidencing that the applicant has
completed a program in funeral directing in another jurisdiction that,
in the opinion of the director, is equivalent to the program referred
to in subparagraph (i),




(b)

the names and contact information for 3 references who are able to
attest to the competency of the applicant,




(c)

the name of the funeral provider who intends




(i)

to employ the applicant as a funeral director, or




(ii)

to contract with the applicant for the provision of services by the
applicant as a funeral director, and




(d)

unless a different fee is required by the administrative authority,
the fee required under Schedule 2 to this regulation.




(2)

Subject to subsection (4), an applicant for a licence to act as or
purport to be an embalmer must submit to the director




(a)

evidence that applicant has received




(i)

a certificate of qualification issued by SkilledTradesBC, within the 2
year period immediately before the date the application is filed, for
a program in embalming education that is




(A)

designated as a recognized program under the

Skilled Trades BC Act

,




(B)

requires that students complete 50 embalmings that are supervised by
an embalmer, or




(ii)

a certificate or other document evidencing that the applicant has
completed a program in embalming education in another jurisdiction
that, in the opinion of the director, is equivalent to the program
referred to in subparagraph (i),




(b)

the names and contact information for 3 references who are able to
attest to the competency of the applicant,




(c)

the name of the funeral provider who intends




(i)

to employ the applicant as an embalmer, or




(ii)

to contract with the applicant for the provision of services by the
applicant as an embalmer, and




(d)

unless a different fee is required by the administrative authority,
the fee required under Schedule 2 to this regulation.




(3)

Subject to subsection (4), a person may apply for a licence to act as
or purport to be both a funeral director and an embalmer if the person
complies with both subsections (1) and (2).




(4)

Subsections (1) (a) and (b) and (2) (a) and (b) do not apply if




(a)

the applicant is applying for renewal of a licence, or




(b)

the applicant is a funeral director or embalmer or both, as the case
may be, whose licence lapsed




(i)

during the 2 year period before the filing of the application for the
same type of licence under this section, and




(ii)

for a reason that is unrelated to the director suspending or
cancelling the applicant's licence.

[am. B.C. Regs. 76/2022, s. 11; 253/2022, s. 3.]





Exemption from Act â€” bereavement rites and ceremonies




36


An individual who conducts bereavement rites and ceremonies, but does
not perform any of the other functions of a funeral director, is
exempt from the obligation to be licensed as a funeral director under
section 55 (1) of the Act.






Exemption from Act â€” remote service area




36.1

(1)


In this section:



"designated area"

means the area within the perimeter boundary of a regional district
and, for greater certainty, includes municipalities within that
perimeter boundary;



"electoral area"

means an electoral area in a regional district as specified by the
letters patent for the regional district;



"remote service area"

means a municipality or an electoral area that




(a)

is not accessible in all seasons by a highway that goes from the
municipality or electoral area to the business location of the
licensed funeral director in closest proximity to the municipality or
electoral area, and




(b)

is at least 200 km by highway or ferry from the business location of
the licensed funeral director in closest proximity to the municipality
or electoral area.




(2)

On the approval of the director, an individual may perform the
functions of a funeral provider and funeral director in a remote
service area as indicated in a resolution referred to in subsection
(3) (a) (i) or (ii).




(3)

An individual seeking the director's approval under subsection (2) to
perform the functions of a funeral provider and funeral director in a
remote service area must




(a)

submit to the director,




(i)

if the remote service area is a municipality, a resolution of the
council of the municipality in support of the individual performing
the functions of a funeral provider and funeral director in the
municipality, or




(ii)

if the remote service area is an electoral area in a regional
district, a resolution of the board of the regional district in
support of the individual performing the functions of a funeral
provider and funeral director in the electoral area, and




(b)

authorize a criminal record check or a criminal record check
verification, as applicable, under the

Criminal Records Review Act

.




(4)

If approval is given by the director under subsection (2) the
individual is exempt from the obligation to be licensed as a funeral
provider and as a funeral director under section 55 (1) of the Act in
the remote service area for a period of up to 3 years, as determined
by the director, which period begins on the date of the director's
approval.




(5)

No more than 2 individuals may be exempt from the obligation to be
licensed as a funeral provider and as a funeral director under section
55 (1) of the Act within a designated area.

[en. B.C. Reg. 121/2019, s. 3.]





Licensing of apprentice funeral directors and embalmers




37

(1)


In this section, a reference to a licensed funeral director or a
licensed embalmer means a funeral director or an embalmer who is
licensed and has been licensed for the immediately preceding 2 years.




(2)

For the purposes of section 55 (6) of the Act, an apprentice to a
funeral director is acting under supervision and direction as follows:




(a)

if the apprentice has either completed fewer than 1 800 hours of
practical training or negotiated, entered into and administered fewer
than 25 funeral contracts, when a licensed funeral director is




(i)

present at the time the apprentice is assisting with or performing the
functions of a funeral director, and




(ii)

observing and guiding the assistance with or performance of those
functions;




(b)

in any other case, when the apprentice has access to, and may readily
communicate with, a licensed funeral director while assisting with or
performing the functions of a funeral director.




(2.1)

For the purposes of section 55 (6) of the Act, an apprentice to an
embalmer is acting under supervision and direction as follows:




(a)

if the apprentice has completed fewer than 25 embalmings, when a
licensed embalmer is




(i)

present at the time the apprentice is assisting with or performing the
functions of an embalmer, and




(ii)

observing and guiding the assistance with or performance of those
functions;




(b)

in any other case, when the apprentice has access to, and may readily
communicate with, a licensed embalmer while assisting with or
performing the functions of an embalmer.




(3)

An applicant for a licence to act as or purport to be an apprentice to
a funeral director or an embalmer or both must submit to the director




(a)

if the applicant is to be an apprentice to a funeral director,
enrollment in a funeral services program designated as a recognized
program under the

Skilled Trades BC Act

,




(b)

if the applicant is to be an apprentice to an embalmer, enrollment in
an embalming education program designated as a recognized program
under the

Skilled Trades BC Act

,




(c)

if the applicant is to be an apprentice to both a funeral director and
an embalmer, enrollment in the programs referred to in paragraphs (a)
and (b),




(d)

a letter from a funeral provider that includes the information set out
in subsection (4), and




(e)

a statement signed by the licensed funeral director or licensed
embalmer who is to provide the supervision and direction of the
applicant, agreeing to perform this role as set out in subsection (2)
or (2.1), as applicable.




(4)

A letter referred to in subsection (3) (d) from a funeral provider
must state the following:




(a)

the applicant is to be employed by the funeral provider as an
apprentice funeral director or embalmer or both;




(b)

the funeral provider agrees to ensure that the applicant is acting
under the supervision and direction, as set out in subsection (2) or
(2.1), of




(i)

a licensed funeral director, if the applicant is to be an apprentice
to a funeral director,




(ii)

a licensed embalmer, if the applicant is to be an apprentice to an
embalmer, and




(iii)

a licensed funeral director while performing functions of a funeral
director and a licensed embalmer while performing functions of an
embalmer, if the applicant is to be an apprentice to both a funeral
director and an embalmer;




(c)

the funeral provider performs disinfection, preservation or
restoration of human remains at the business premises of the funeral
provider, or has access to facilities where the funeral provider
performs these services;




(d)

the facilities at which the funeral provider performs the services
referred to in paragraph (c) meet the requirements set out in section
32.




(5)

A funeral provider must notify the director in writing of the
termination of the employment of an apprentice to a funeral director,
to an embalmer or to both who is employed by the funeral provider
immediately after the termination of the employment.




(6)

Unless the director otherwise permits, an apprentice to a funeral
director, an embalmer or both must, during the period the apprentice
is licensed,




(a)

have continuous employment with a funeral provider,




(b)

if performing functions of a funeral director, perform those functions
only under the supervision and direction, as set out in subsection
(2), of a licensed funeral director, and




(c)

if performing the functions of an embalmer, perform those functions
only under the supervision and direction, as set out in subsection
(2.1), of a licensed embalmer.


[am. B.C. Regs. 44/2016, s. 3; 76/2022, s. 11; 253/2022, s. 4.]






Continuing education




38

(1)


A person licensed as a funeral director, embalmer or both must
complete a minimum of




(a)

6 hours of training in a program of funeral services that is approved
by the director, if licensed as a funeral director, and




(b)

6 hours of training in a program of embalming that is approved by the
director, if licensed as an embalmer,


during each successive 2 year period where the first 2 year period
commences on the date the person first received a licence to act as a
funeral director or an embalmer or both in the Province.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), the director may at any time require a funeral
director or embalmer to take additional training in a program of
funeral services education or embalming.

[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 11.]





Obligations of funeral directors and embalmers




39

(1)


A person who is licensed as a funeral director must be employed by, or
under contract to, a funeral provider, or be licensed as a funeral
provider, while acting as a funeral director.




(2)

A person who is licensed as an embalmer must be employed by, or under
contract to, a funeral provider, or be licensed as a funeral provider,
while acting as an embalmer.






Reporting requirements of funeral director




40


A funeral director must provide to the person referred to in section 5
(1) (a) to (k) of the Act who has control over the human remains a
written list of all the property, money, and other items of
significant value found on the human remains in the funeral director's
possession or under the control of the funeral director.






Display of licences




41


A funeral provider must display the following in a conspicuous
location in the part of the business premises of the funeral provider
that is accessible to members of the public:




(a)

a copy of the licence issued to the funeral provider;




(b)

a copy of each licence issued with respect to an embalmer, funeral
director or apprentice to an embalmer or funeral director who is
employed by or performs services for the funeral provider under
contract.






Change of address or employer




42

(1)


At least one month before a funeral provider changes the location from
which the funeral provider conducts business, the funeral provider
must notify the director in writing of the change of address.




(2)

An embalmer, a funeral director or an apprentice to an embalmer or a
funeral director who




(a)

ceases to be employed by, or




(b)

ceases to provide embalmer or funeral director services to


the funeral provider named by the embalmer or funeral director under
section 35 (1) (c) or (2) (c), must notify the director in writing
immediately following the change in employment.




(3)

At the time a person who is an embalmer or a funeral director, or an
apprentice to an embalmer or a funeral director, ceases to provide
embalmer or funeral director services, or ceases to be an apprentice,
the person must return the person's licence to the director.

[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 1.]





Records




43

(1)


A funeral provider must keep a record of each funeral service provided
by the funeral provider that includes:




(a)

the name of the deceased;




(b)

if the human remains were interred, the date and place of interment;




(c)

if the human remains were cremated, the date and place of cremation
and the disposition of the cremated remains;




(d)

the name and mailing address of a person who had a kinship
relationship with the deceased;




(e)

a copy of the written authorization required under section 8 (1) of
the Act from the person who under section 5 of the Act, had the right
to control the disposition of human remains and the address of the
person who gave the authorization;




(f)

a copy of the burial permit or if the death occurred outside the
Province, a copy of the burial permit or other document required under
sectionÂ 22 of the

Vital Statistics Act

for the burial of the human remains.




(2)

A funeral provider must




(a)

maintain, at business premises in British Columbia, a copy of every
preneed cemetery or funeral services contract entered into by that
funeral provider, and




(b)

ensure that the records of the money received and disbursed under all
preneed cemetery and funeral services contracts is able to be provided
on request of the director.




(3)

Before or at the time that a funeral provider ceases to carry on
business, the funeral provider must provide in a manner satisfactory
to the director for the safekeeping of the records required to be kept
under this section.






Offences




44

(1)


A person who contravenes section 8, 12, 27, 30, 37 (5), 42 or 43
commits an offence.




(2)

An operator of a crematorium or a funeral provider must not dispose of
cremated remains unless all the conditions set out in sectionÂ 8
have been met.




Schedule 1


Payments into Care Fund




Item

Column 1

Place of Interment


Column 2

Type of Right of Interment


Column 3


Percentage of

Selling Price




1

Cedar Valley Memorial Gardens, Nanaimo Valley View Memorial
Gardens, Surrey Vancouver Masonic


An interment right contract in which an interment right is
purchased for a person before the person's death

20%


2

Hatley Memorial Gardens, Victoria Schara Tzedeck, New Westminster


Any type of interment right contract

20%


3

Cedar Valley Memorial Gardens, Nanaimo Valley View Memorial
Gardens, Surrey


An interment right contract in which an interment right is
purchased for a person after the person's death

22 1/2%





Schedule 2


Licence Application Fees






1


Unless the administrative authority requires a fee for a type of
licence referred to in Column 1, an applicant for that type of licence
must submit with the person's application for a licence the
application fee set out opposite:






Column 1

Type of Licence


Column 2

Amount of Fee




For each location that a funeral provider carries on business

$400


For a funeral director licence
$100


For an embalmer licence
$100



For a joint licence for both a funeral director and embalmer, if
the licences are issued or renewed at the same time

$100



For a licence to operate a crematorium at any location but does
not include an application to amend or renew that licence

$450




[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Cremation, Interment and Funeral Services Act

, S.B.C. 2004, c. 35, s.Â 68.]



