







B.C. Reg. 161/2002

O.C. 519/2002


Deposited June 27, 2002

effective June 30, 2002





This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Crime Victim Assistance Act


Crime Victim Assistance (General) Regulation

[Last amended January 1, 2024 by B.C. Reg. 270/2023]



Part 1 — Definitions, Prescribed Terms, Prescribed Offences and
Prescribed Categories of Benefits





Definitions




1


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the

Crime Victim Assistance Act

;



"economically reasonable"

means the most economical alternative that is appropriate in the
circumstances;



"eligible offence"

means a prescribed offence and includes, in the case of a victim or an
immediate family member of a victim, an event that is described in
section 3 (1) (a) (ii) of the Act;



"legal proceedings"

means the following legal proceedings related to an eligible offence:




(a)

a preliminary inquiry;




(b)

a trial;




(c)

a sentence hearing or review;




(d)

an appeal hearing;




(e)

a parole hearing;




(f)

a hearing of the review board established for British Columbia under
section 672.38 of the

Criminal Code

;




(g)

an investigation or inquest conducted under the

Coroners Act

,


but does not include civil proceedings;



"prescribed offence"

means an offence set out in Schedule 1.

[am. B.C. Reg. 226/2017, s. 1.]





Health professionals prescribed




2


The following persons are prescribed as health professionals for the
purposes of the Act and this regulation:




(a)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 420/2008, App., s. 1.]




(b)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 421/2008, App., s. 1.]




(c)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 422/2008, App., s. 1.]




(d)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 169/2010, App., s. 1 (a).]




(e)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 232/2005, App., s. 1.]




(f)

an emergency medical assistant licensed under the

Emergency Health Services Act

;




(g)

a person who is authorized under the

Health Professions Act

to practise any of the following designated health professions:




(i)

acupuncture;




(ii)

audiology;




(iii)

chiropractic;




(iv)

dental hygiene;




(v)

dentistry;




(vi)

dental technology;




(vii)

denturism;




(viii)

dietetics;




(ix)

hearing instrument dispensing;




(x)

massage therapy;




(xi)

midwifery;




(xii)

naturopathic medicine;




(xiii)

nursing;




(xiv)

occupational therapy;




(xv)

opticianry;




(xvi)

optometry;




(xvii)

pharmacy;




(xviii)

physical therapy;




(xix)

podiatric medicine;




(xx)

practical nursing;




(xxi)

psychiatric nursing;




(xxii)

psychology;




(xxiii)

speech-language pathology;




(xxiv)

traditional Chinese medicine;




(h)

a person who is authorized under the

Social Workers Act

to practise social work.


[am. B.C. Regs. 232/2005, App., s. 1; 420/2008, App., s. 1; 421/2008,
App., s. 1; 422/2008, App., s. 1; 169/2010, App., s. 1; 145/2013, App.
2, s. 1; 270/2023, Sch., s. 1.]






Awarding of benefits




3


The director may award a benefit by




(a)

paying the person who has provided or is providing the benefit to a
victim, immediate family member or witness, as the case may be,




(b)

reimbursing the victim, immediate family member or witness for
expenses incurred by the victim, immediate family member or witness,
as the case may be, in acquiring the benefit, if that expenditure is
supported by evidence satisfactory to the director, or




(c)

directly providing the victim, immediate family member or witness with
the benefit.






Prescribed offences




4


The offences under the

Criminal Code

listed in Schedule 1 are prescribed offences for the purpose of
section 3 (1) (a) (i) of the Act.






Prescribed categories of benefits




5

(1)


Crime scene cleaning is prescribed as an additional category of
benefit under section 4 (1) (o), 4 (2) (i) and 4 (3) (d) of the Act.




(2)

The following are prescribed as additional categories of benefit under
section 4 (2) (i) of the Act:




(a)

childcare services or expenses;




(b)

homemaker services or expenses.




(3)

Childcare services or expenses is prescribed as an additional category
of benefit under section 4 (3) (d) of the Act.






Application for benefits




6


An application for benefits made under section 3 (1) of the Act must
be in writing and in a form satisfactory to the director.






Maximum period for reimbursement of expenses incurred before
director's decision




6.1


The maximum period prescribed for the purposes of section 4 (4) (b) of
the Act is the following:




(a)

for expenses incurred by a victim, immediate family member or witness
as a result of an eligible offence that occurred before the date this
section comes into force, 1 year from the date the director
receives the application for benefits;




(b)

for expenses incurred by a victim, immediate family member or witness
as a result of an eligible offence that occurred on or after the date
this section comes into force, 2 years from the date the director
receives the application for benefits.

[en. B.C. Reg. 270/2023, Sch., s. 2.]



Part 2 — Victim's Benefits





Medical services or expenses




7

(1)


The director may award only the following types of benefits in the
category of benefit described as medical services or expenses in
section 4 (1) (a) of the Act:




(a)

diagnosis, treatment and care by a medical practitioner;




(b)

assessment, treatment and care by a health professional;




(c)

assessment, treatment and care by a person satisfactory to the
director;




(d)

ambulance or emergency transportation;




(e)

health care services provided by or at a facility or institution
satisfactory to the director;




(f)

equipment, devices, aids and supplies directly related to the
diagnosis, assessment, treatment and care described in this
subsection;




(g)

expenses directly related to diagnostic tools, tests and analysis
respecting the diagnosis, assessment, treatment or care described in
this section.




(2)

The director may award a victim a benefit referred to in subsection
(1), only if the director is satisfied that the benefit is necessary
and reasonable and the cost of providing the benefit is economically
reasonable.




(3)

If, as a result of a victim's injury from an eligible offence, the
victim obtains medical services or prescription drugs outside of
British Columbia, the maximum amount that the director may pay for




(a)

a type of medical service funded under the

Medicare Protection Act

is the amount payable under that Act for that type of medical service,




(b)

a type of medical service funded under the

Hospital Insurance Act

is the amount payable under that Act for that type of medical service,
and




(c)

a prescription drug that is funded under a drug plan established under
the Drug Plans Regulation is the amount payable under that plan for
that type of prescription drug.


[am. B.C. Regs. 32/2012, Sch. 2, s. 1; 73/2015, App. 2; 270/2023,
Sch., s. 3.]






Dental services or expenses




8

(1)


The director may award only the following types of benefits in the
category of benefit described as dental services or expenses in
section 4 (1) (a) of the Act:




(a)

surgical or non-surgical dental diagnosis, assessment, treatment, or
care by a dentist or health professional;




(b)

design, construction, repair, alteration and fitting of a complete or
partial denture, or dental appliances, equipment, aids, devices or
supplies, by a dentist or health professional;




(c)

expenses directly related to diagnostic tools and tests and analysis
respecting the diagnosis, assessment, treatment, care or activity
described in paragraphs (a) and (b).




(2)

The director may award a victim a benefit referred to in
subsection (1) only if the director is satisfied that the benefit
is reasonable and necessary and the cost of providing the benefit is
economically reasonable.




(3)

In the case of a dental service referred to in subsection (1)
that is performed by a dentist who is a general practitioner, the
director may not pay more than the amount for that dental service set
out in the "Fee guide for dental treatment services provided by
general practitioners" published by the Association of Dental Surgeons
of British Columbia and in effect at the time the dental service is
provided.




(4)

In the case of a dental service referred to in subsection (1) that is
performed by a periodontist, the director may not pay more than the
amount for that dental service set out in the "Specialist Fee Guide
for Periodontics" published by the Association of Dental Surgeons of
British Columbia and in effect at the time the dental service is
provided.

[am. B.C. Reg. 270/2023, Sch., s. 4.]





Prescription drug expenses




9


Subject to section 7 (3), the director may award a victim a benefit
referred to in section 4 (1) (b) of the Act only if




(a)

the drugs are prescribed for the victim by a medical practitioner or a
health professional authorized by law to prescribe those drugs, and




(b)

the director is satisfied that the prescriptions drugs are necessary
and reasonable and the cost of providing the benefit is economically
reasonable.






Disability aids




10

(1)


The director may award only the following types of benefits in the
category of benefit described as disability aids in
section 4 (1) (c) of the Act:




(a)

mobility aids;




(b)

communication aids;




(c)

vision aids;




(d)

specialized clothing to accommodate the disability of the victim;




(e)

prostheses and orthoses;




(f)

equipment, devices, appliances and supplies;




(g)

fittings, repairs, replacement and adjustment to the types of
disability aids referred to in paragraphs (a) to (f).




(2)

The director may award a victim a benefit referred to in subsection
(1) only if the director is satisfied that the benefit




(a)

is reasonable and necessary to alleviate the effects of the injury
from the eligible offence, help improve the quality of life of a
victim and assist the victim in the activities of daily living, and




(b)

is economically reasonable.

[am. B.C. Reg. 270/2023, Sch., s. 4.]





Counselling services or expenses




11

(1)


Subject to this section, the director may award a victim a benefit in
the category of benefit described as counselling services and expenses
in section 4 (1) (d) of the Act only if the director is
satisfied that the counselling services or expenses are reasonable and
necessary to assist the victim in the victim's recovery from the
psychological injury that resulted from an eligible offence.




(2)

A benefit referred to in subsection (1) does not include the
following:




(a)

stress management courses, self-improvement seminars or self-help
books, tapes, audio or video displays or other similar materials;




(b)

counselling provided by a counsellor who does not have professional
liability insurance that is satisfactory to the director;




(c)

counselling provided by a counsellor who has failed to provide to the
director a criminal record check that is satisfactory to the director.




(3)

The director may award a victim one or both of the following:




(a)

up to 48 one hour counselling sessions;




(b)

up to 24 one hour counselling sessions to be used subject to
subsection (3.1).




(3.1)

Counselling sessions awarded under subsection (3) (b) may be used only
as follows:




(a)

the sessions may be used only in relation to a legal proceeding
conducted in respect of an eligible offence, unless the director is
satisfied that the legal proceeding is sufficiently similar or related
to an eligible offence that counselling sessions are reasonable and
necessary in the circumstances;




(b)

the sessions may be awarded in respect of, and used only during, the
period that




(i)

begins on the date that the legal proceeding is commenced, and




(ii)

ends on the date that is 18 months after that legal proceeding is
concluded or terminated;




(c)

the sessions may be used in relation to more than one legal proceeding
only




(i)

if each legal proceeding relates to the same eligible offence or the
same similar or related proceeding, and




(ii)

until the number of counselling sessions awarded is reached.




(3.2)

For greater certainty,




(a)

counselling sessions may be awarded under subsection (3) (b) whether
or not the victim attends any of the legal proceedings,




(b)

the director may determine when a legal proceeding commences,
concludes or terminates, and




(c)

if subsection (3.1) (c) applies, the period described in subsection
(3.1) (b) applies in respect of each legal proceeding.




(4)

If the victim was under 19 years old when the victim was injured as a
result of an eligible offence, the director may award more counselling
sessions to the victim than the number of sessions permitted under
subsection (3) (a) if the director is satisfied that
continued counselling is reasonable and necessary.




(5)

For the purposes of subsection (6),
"counselling sessions"
means 4 one hour counselling sessions that




(a)

aid a person in understanding the impact of the commission of the
eligible offence on a victim, and




(b)

discuss the methods of supporting a victim and helping a victim
recover from this psychological injury.




(6)

If the director considers that a victim may need help in developing or
implementing a treatment plan to aid the victim in the victim's
recovery from the psychological injury caused by an eligible offence,
the director may provide a benefit to a victim by paying for
counselling sessions for a person who is willing and able to
participate in the development or implementation of the treatment plan
with the victim.




(7)

The director may not pay, for a counselling session awarded under this
section, more than the amount set out in Column 2 of
Schedule 2 for that type of counselling session.


[am. B.C. Regs. 226/2017, s. 2; 270/2023, Sch., s. 5.]






Protective measures, services or expenses




12

(1)


The director may award only the following types of benefits in the
category of benefit described as protective measures, services or
expenses in section 4 (1) (f) of the Act:




(a)

the acquisition, rental, installation and maintenance of




(i)

security devices, equipment and services, and




(ii)

communication devices, equipment and services;




(b)

courses for personal protection or security;




(c)

one or more of the following relocation expenses:




(i)

a relocation allowance of an amount determined under subsection (4);




(ii)

actual moving expenses for the victim, the victim's dependent children
who reside with the victim and the victim's household goods;




(iii)

rental security deposit;




(iv)

connection fees for telephone and utilities.




(2)

The director may award a victim a benefit referred to in subsection
(1) (a) or (b) if the director is satisfied




(a)

that the benefit is reasonable and necessary,




(b)

that




(i)

there continues to be a real and substantial risk that the victim is
likely to be harmed by the perpetrator or associates of the
perpetrator of the eligible offence that caused the victim's injury,
or




(ii)

the benefit is needed for the victim's recovery from the psychological
injury that resulted from the eligible offence, and




(c)

that the provision of the benefit is economically reasonable.




(3)

The director may award a victim a benefit referred to in subsection
(1) (c) if the director is satisfied that




(a)

the benefit is reasonable and necessary,




(b)

the benefits under subsection (1) (a) and (b) are not adequate in the
circumstances,




(c)

either of the following applies:




(i)

there continues to be a real and substantial risk that the victim is
likely to be harmed by the perpetrator or associates of the
perpetrator of the eligible offence that caused the victim's injury,
or




(ii)

the benefit is needed for the victim's recovery from the psychological
injury that resulted from the eligible offence, and




(d)

the provision of the benefit is economically reasonable.




(4)

A relocation allowance payable under subsection (1) is a weekly
allowance that




(a)

is paid for the period that the victim is unemployed following the
relocation of the victim, and




(b)

equals the product of 40 times the higher hourly minimum wage
established under the

Employment Standards Act

.




(5)

The director may not award a victim benefits referred to in subsection
(1) (a) and (b) with a value that in total exceeds $3 000.




(6)

The director may not award a victim benefits referred to in subsection
(1) (c) with a value that in total exceeds $7 000.

[am. B.C. Reg. 270/2023, Sch., s. 6.]





Repair or replacement of damaged or destroyed personal property




13

(1)


The director may award only the following types of benefits in the
category of benefit described as repair or replacement of damaged or
destroyed personal property in section 4 (1) (g):




(a)

repair or replacement of eye glass frames;




(b)

replacement of eye glass lenses or contact lenses with lenses of a
comparable kind and quality;




(c)

repair of a disability aid referred to in section 10 (1) (a), (d), (e)
or (f) or if repair of that disability aid is not, in the opinion of
the director possible, replacement of that disability aid with a
disability aid of a comparable kind and quality;




(d)

repair of clothing, other than clothing referred to in section 10 (1)
(d), or if the clothing is not, in the opinion of the director,
reasonably able to be repaired, replacement of the clothing with
clothing of a comparable kind and quality.




(2)

The director may not award a victim a benefit referred to in
subsection (1) (a) or (d) with a value that exceeds $150.

[a.m. B.C. Reg. 270/2023, Sch., s. 4.]





Home modification, maintenance or moving expenses




14

(1)


The director may award a benefit in the category of benefit described
in section 4 (1) (h) of the Act as home modification, maintenance or
moving expenses to a victim on the conditions and subject to the
limitations set out in this section.




(2)

The director may award home modification expenses to a victim if the
director is satisfied that




(a)

the victim is disabled as a result of an eligible offence, and




(b)

the modifications to the victim's residence or the victim's proposed
residence are reasonable and necessary to assist the victim in the
victim's daily activities.




(3)

The director may award a victim a monthly sum that does not exceed
$100 per month for home maintenance expenses, if the
director is satisfied that




(a)

the victim is disabled as a result of an eligible offence,




(b)

the victim is unable to maintain and repair the victim's residence or
the land surrounding the residence, if any, due to the victim's
disability, and




(c)

no other person in the victim's household is reasonably able to do
this work.




(4)

The director may pay a victim's moving expenses, up to a maximum of
$2 000, if




(a)

the victim has a long term disability as a result of an eligible
offence,




(b)

the victim is not able to reside in the victim's residence unless
modifications are made to the residence, and




(c)

the director is satisfied that the residence in which the victim
resides or will reside




(i)

is not reasonably able to be modified, or




(ii)

is not able to be modified at a reasonable cost.




(5)

A victim described in subsection (4) may be awarded a benefit only
once.

[am. B.C. Reg. 270/2023, Sch., s. 7.]





Vehicle modification or acquisition




15

(1)


The director may award a benefit in the category of benefit described
as vehicle modification or acquisition in section 4 (1) (i) of the Act
to a victim only if the director is satisfied that




(a)

the victim has a long term disability as a result of an eligible
offence,




(b)

a motor vehicle needs to be acquired or modified so that the victim is
able to operate or use the motor vehicle, and




(c)

the benefit is reasonable and necessary to provide greater
independence to the victim.




(2)

A victim who receives a benefit under subsection (1) is not eligible
for the benefits referred to in section 18.




(3)

Subject to subsection (4), a victim may not be awarded a benefit
referred to in subsection (1) more than once every 15 years.




(4)

The director may award a benefit referred to in subsection (1)
more than once every 15 years if satisfied that doing so is
economically reasonable.

[am. B.C. Reg. 270/2023, Sch., s. 8.]





Homemaker, childcare and personal care




16

(1)


In this section:



"childcare services or expenses"

means services provided or expenses incurred to care for an immediate
family member of the victim, if that immediate family member is a
minor child of the victim or a child of the victim who, due to a
disability, is unable to live independently from the victim;



"homemaker services or expenses"

means services provided or expenses incurred to assist a person with
shopping, cleaning, cooking and other household tasks;



"personal care services or expenses"

means services provided and expenses incurred to assist a person with
bathing, dressing, toileting and other daily tasks related to personal
care.




(2)

The director may award only the following types of benefits in the
category of benefit described as homemaker, childcare or personal care
services or expenses in section 4 (1) (j) of
the Act:




(a)

childcare services or expenses;




(b)

homemaker services or expenses;




(c)

personal care services or expenses.




(3)

Subject to subsection (4), the director may award a victim childcare
services or expenses only if




(a)

the victim has a disability as a result of an eligible offence,




(b)

the victim is unable to perform some or all of the childcare services
due to the victim's disability and the victim performed some or all of
the childcare services before the eligible offence,




(c)

no other person in the victim's household is reasonably able to
perform these childcare services, and




(d)

the director is satisfied that the benefit is reasonable and
necessary.




(4)

The director may award a victim childcare services or expenses if




(a)

the director is awarding the victim transportation and related
expenses under section 18 (4),




(b)

no other person in the victim's household is reasonably able to
perform the childcare services necessary for the victim to be able to
receive one or more of the benefits referred to in section 18 (4), and




(c)

the director is satisfied that the benefit is reasonable and necessary
for the victim to be able to receive one or more of the benefits
referred to in section 18 (4).




(5)

The director may not award a victim more than $800 per month for
childcare services.




(6)

The director may award a victim homemaker services or expenses only if




(a)

the victim is suffering from a disability as a result of an eligible
offence,




(b)

the victim is unable to perform homemaker tasks due to the victim's
disability and performed some or all of those tasks before the injury,




(c)

no other person in the victim's household is reasonably able to
perform these homecare tasks, and




(d)

the director is satisfied that the benefit is reasonable and
necessary.




(7)

The director may not award a victim more than $400 per month for
homemaker services.




(8)

The director may award a victim personal care services or expenses
only if




(a)

the victim is suffering from a disability as a result of an eligible
offence,




(b)

the victim is unable to perform one or more personal care services due
to the victim's disability, and




(c)

the director is satisfied that the personal care services or expenses
are reasonable and necessary to assist the victim in daily living and
to help the victim retain the victim's independence.




(9)

The director may not award a victim more than $1 600 per month for
personal care services.

[am. B.C. Reg. 270/2023, Sch., ss. 4 and 9.]





Maintenance for a child born as a result of a prescribed offence




17

(1)


The director may award a victim a benefit described as maintenance
payments for a child born as a result of a prescribed offence as in
section 4 (1) (k) of the Act in the amount set out under subsection
(2) and for the period set out in subsection (3) if the director is
satisfied that




(a)

the child is born as a result of a prescribed offence, and




(b)

the child either resides with the victim or the child resides with
someone other than the victim but the victim financially supports the
child.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1), the director may pay a victim




(a)

$300 per month for each month that the child resides with the victim
at least 50% of the time, and




(b)

for each month that the child resides with a person other than the
victim at least 50% of the time and the victim provides child support
to that person for the month, the lesser of




(i)

$300 for each month that the child resides with the other person, and




(ii)

the amount of child support that the victim pays the person with whom
the child resides.




(3)

For the purposes of subsection (1), the director may pay a victim




(a)

subject to paragraphs (b) and (c), for the period that the child is
under 19 years of age,




(b)

if the child is attending an educational institution full time, for
the period that the child is under 23 years of age, and




(c)

if the child, due to a disability, is unable to live independently,
for the period that the victim financially supports the child.






Transportation and related expenses




18

(1)


In this section,
"related expenses"
means the cost of meals and accommodation that are incurred by a
victim as part of transportation undertaken by the victim.




(2)

The director may award to a victim a benefit described as
transportation and related expenses in section 4 (1) (n) of the Act on
the conditions and subject to the limitations set out in this section.




(3)

The director may award $200 per month to a victim for transportation
and related expenses if the director is satisfied that




(a)

the victim has a long term disability as a result of an eligible
offence and is unable to operate a motor vehicle or to use public
transportation as a result of this disability, and




(b)

the transportation expenses are reasonable and necessary to provide
greater independence to the victim.




(4)

The director may award a benefit referred to in subsection (2) to a
victim if the director is satisfied that the service or expense is
reasonable and necessary for the victim to be able to receive one or
more of the following benefits awarded to the victim under the Act:




(a)

medical services;




(b)

dental services;




(c)

counselling services;




(d)

vocational services.




(5)

Despite subsection (3), a victim is not eligible to receive both the
benefit described in subsection (3) and the benefit described in
section 15.




(6)

The director may pay a victim for transportation and related expenses
at the same rate as that set for group I public service employees
under the Financial Administration Procedures Manual, published by the
Ministry of Finance, that is in effect at the time the expense is
incurred.






Crime scene cleaning expenses




19

(1)


The director may award a victim the benefit of crime scene cleaning
expenses only if the director is satisfied that




(a)

the eligible offence occurred at the victim's residence or in a motor
vehicle owned or leased by the victim,




(b)

exceptional and specialized cleaning is required, and




(c)

the expenses are reasonable and necessary.




(2)

The director may not award a victim a benefit referred to in
subsection (1) with a value that exceeds $4 000.

[am. B.C. Reg. 270/2023, Sch., s. 10.]



Part 3 — Immediate Family Member's Benefits





Counselling services or expenses




20

(1)


Subject to this section, the director may award an immediate family
member a benefit in the category of benefit described as counselling
benefits or expenses in section 4 (2) (a) of the Act
only if the director is satisfied that the counselling services or
expenses are reasonable and necessary to assist the immediate family
member in the immediate family member's recovery from the
psychological injury that resulted from an eligible offence.




(2)

A benefit referred to in subsection (1) does not include the
following:




(a)

stress management courses, self-improvement seminars or self-help
books, tapes, audio or video displays or other similar materials,




(b)

counselling provided by a counsellor who does not have professional
liability insurance that is satisfactory to the director,




(c)

counselling provided by a counsellor who has failed to provide to the
director a criminal record check that is satisfactory to the director.




(3)

The director may award an immediate family member one or both of the
following:




(a)

up to 36 one hour counselling sessions;




(b)

up to 18 one hour counselling sessions to be used subject to
subsection (3.1).




(3.1)

Counselling sessions awarded under subsection (3) (b) may be used only
as follows:




(a)

the sessions may be used only in relation to a legal proceeding
conducted in respect of an eligible offence, unless the director is
satisfied that the legal proceeding is sufficiently similar or related
to an eligible offence that counselling sessions are reasonable and
necessary in the circumstances;




(b)

the sessions may be awarded in respect of, and used only during, the
period that




(i)

begins on the date that the legal proceeding is commenced, and




(ii)

ends on the date that is 18 months after that legal proceeding is
concluded or terminated;




(c)

the sessions may be used in relation to more than one legal proceeding
only




(i)

if each legal proceeding relates to the same eligible offence or the
same similar or related proceeding, and




(ii)

until the number of counselling sessions awarded is reached.




(3.2)

For greater certainty,




(a)

counselling sessions may be awarded under subsection (3) (b) whether
or not the immediate family member attends any of the legal
proceedings,




(b)

the director may determine when a legal proceeding commences,
concludes or terminates, and




(c)

if subsection (3.1) (c) applies, the period described in subsection
(3.1) (b) applies in respect of each legal proceeding.




(4)

If the immediate family member was under 19 years old when the
eligible offence that resulted in the death or injury of the victim
occurred, the director may award more counselling sessions to the
immediate family member than the number of sessions permitted under
subsection (3) (a) if the director is satisfied that continued
counselling is reasonable and necessary.




(5)

The director may not pay more than the amount set out in Column 2
of Schedule 2 for the type of counselling session that an
immediate family member attends.


[am. B.C. Regs. 226/2017, s. 3; 270/2023, Sch., s. 11.]






Prescription drug expenses




21

(1)


The director may award an immediate family member a benefit referred
to in section 4 (2) (b) of the Act only if




(a)

the drugs are prescribed for the immediate family member by a medical
practitioner or a health professional authorized by law to prescribe
those drugs,




(b)

the drugs are prescribed as a result of the psychological harm caused
to the immediate family member by the victim's death or injury, and




(c)

the director is satisfied that the prescriptions drugs are necessary
and reasonable and the cost of providing the benefit is economically
reasonable.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1), the director may not pay an amount
for prescription drugs that an immediate family member obtains outside
of British Columbia that is more than the amount payable under a drug
plan established under the Drug Plans Regulation for that type of
prescription drug.


[am. B.C. Regs. 32/2012, Sch. 2, s. 2; 73/2015, App. 2.]






Funeral expenses




22

(1)


The director may award an immediate family member a benefit referred
to as a funeral expense in section 4 (2) (d) of the Act
only if




(a)

the director is satisfied that the funeral expenses are reasonable and
necessary, and




(b)

the expenses are related to a funeral service, burial, cremation or
related ceremonies.




(2)

The director may not award more than $8 000 under this section
with respect to the death of a victim.

[am. B.C. Reg. 270/2023, Sch., s. 12.]





Transportation and related expenses and child care expenses




23

(1)


In this section,
"related expenses"
means the cost of meals and accommodation that are incurred by an
immediate family member as part of transportation undertaken by the
immediate family member.




(2)

The director may award an immediate family member a benefit described
as transportation and related expenses in section 4
(2) (f) of the Act on the conditions and subject to the
limitations set out in this section.




(3)

The director may award an immediate family member transportation and
related expenses if the director is satisfied that the transportation
and related expenses are reasonable and necessary for the immediate
family member




(a)

to attend legal proceedings related to the eligible offence that
resulted in the death of the victim, or




(b)

to access the counselling benefits referred to in section 20 or
vocational services referred to in the Crime Victim Assistance (Income
Support and Vocational Services or Expenses Benefits) Regulation.




(4)

The director may not award a benefit under subsection (3) (a) if




(a)

the immediate family member is required to attend the legal
proceedings in accordance with a subpoena, or




(b)

the legal proceedings take place within 100 km of the immediate family
member's residence.




(5)

The total amount that the director may award under subsection (3) (a)
with respect to all legal proceedings related to the death of a victim
must not exceed $3 000.




(6)

The director may pay an immediate family member for transportation and
related expenses at the same rate as that set for group I public
service employees under the Financial Administration Procedures
Manual, published by the Ministry of Finance, that is in effect at the
time the expense is incurred.




(7)

The director may award an immediate family member childcare services
or expenses if




(a)

the director is awarding the immediate family member transportation
and related expenses referred to in this section,




(b)

no other person in the immediate family member's household is
reasonably able to perform the childcare services necessary for the
immediate family member




(i)

to be able to attend legal proceedings,




(ii)

to receive the counselling benefits referred to in section 20, or




(iii)

vocational services benefits referred to in the Crime Victim
Assistance (Income Support and Vocational Services or Expenses
Benefits) Regulation, and




(c)

the director is satisfied that the benefit is reasonable and necessary
for the immediate family member




(i)

to be able to attend legal proceedings, or




(ii)

to receive the counselling benefits referred to in section 20, or
vocational services benefits referred to in the Crime Victim
Assistance (Income Support and Vocational Services or Expenses
Benefits) Regulation.

[am. B.C. Reg. 270/2023, Sch., s. 13.]





Loss of parental guidance for a minor child




24

(1)


The director may award $3 000 under section 4 (2) (g) of the Act to an
immediate family member who




(a)

is a child of a parent who dies as a result of an eligible offence,
and




(b)

is under 19 years of age when the immediate family member's parent
died as a result of an eligible offence.




(2)

If more than one parent of a child described in subsection (1) dies as
the result of an eligible offence, $3 000 may be awarded for each
parent under section 4 (2) (g) of the Act.

[am. B.C. Reg. 270/2023, Sch., s. 14.]





Bereavement leave




25

(1)


The director may award an immediate family member of a victim earnings
lost due to bereavement leave referred to in
section 4 (2) (h) of the Act only if




(a)

the immediate family member's absence from work occurs within
2 years of the death of the victim, and




(b)

the director is satisfied that the immediate family member suffered
loss of earnings due to the absence.




(2)

An award under subsection (1) must equal the product of A, B and C
where


A = the number of working days that the family member was
absent from work, up to a maximum of 5 working days,

B = 8, and

C = the higher minimum hourly wage under the

Employment Standards Act

that is in effect at the time the award is made.

[am. B.C. Reg. 270/2023, Sch., s. 15.]





Crime scene cleaning expenses




26

(1)


The director may award an immediate family member of a victim the
benefit of crime scene cleaning expenses only if




(a)

the victim's death or injury resulted from an eligible offence, and




(b)

the director is satisfied that




(i)

either of the following applies:




(A)

in the event of the victim's death, the eligible offence occurred at
the residence of the victim or the immediate family member or in a
motor vehicle owned or leased by the victim or the immediate family
member;




(B)

in the event of the victim's injury, the eligible offence occurred at
the residence of the immediate family member or in a motor vehicle
owned or leased by the immediate family member,




(ii)

exceptional and specialized cleaning is required, and




(iii)

the expenses are reasonable and necessary.




(2)

The maximum that the director may award under subsection (1) is
$4 000.

[en. B.C. Reg. 270/2023, Sch., s. 16.]





Childcare services or expenses




27

(1)


The director may award an immediate family member of a victim the
benefit of childcare services or expenses only if




(a)

the person is a spouse who, at the time of the eligible offence, was
married to the victim or living and cohabiting with the victim in a
marriage-like relationship,




(b)

the victim provided some or all of the childcare before the victim's
death,




(c)

the childcare services are provided or the child care expenses are
incurred during the 5 year period after victim's death, and




(d)

the director is satisfied that the benefit is reasonable and
necessary.




(2)

The director may not award an immediate family member more than
$800 per month for childcare services under this section.

[am. B.C. Reg. 270/2023, Sch., s. 9.]





Homemaker services or expenses




28

(1)


The director may award an immediate family member the benefit of
homemaker services or expenses only if




(a)

the person is a spouse who, at the time of the eligible offence, was
married to the victim or living and cohabiting with the victim in a
marriage-like relationship,




(b)

the victim provided some or all of the homemaker services before the
victim's death,




(c)

the homemaker services are provided or the homemaker expenses are
incurred during the 5 year period after the victim's death, and




(d)

the director is satisfied that the benefit is reasonable and
necessary.




(2)

The director may not award an immediate family member more than $400
per month for homemaker services and expenses under this section.

[am. B.C. Reg. 270/2023, Sch., s. 9.]



Part 4 — Witness Benefits





Counselling services or expenses




29

(1)


Subject to this section, the director may award a witness a benefit in
the category of benefit described as counselling benefits or expenses
in section 4 (3) (a) of the Act only if the director is satisfied that
the counselling services or expenses are reasonable and necessary to
assist the witness in the witness's recovery from the psychological
injury that resulted from an eligible offence.




(2)

A benefit referred to in subsection (1) does not include the
following:




(a)

stress management courses, self-improvement seminars or self-help
books, tapes, audio or video displays or other similar materials;




(b)

counselling provided by a counsellor who does not have professional
liability insurance that is satisfactory to the director;




(c)

counselling provided by a counsellor who has failed to provide to the
director a criminal record check that is satisfactory to the director.




(3)

The director may award a witness one or both of the following:




(a)

up to 12 one hour counselling sessions;




(b)

up to 12 one hour counselling sessions to be used subject to
subsection (3.1).




(3.1)

Counselling sessions awarded under subsection (3) (b) may be used only
as follows:




(a)

the sessions may be used only in relation to a legal proceeding
conducted in respect of an eligible offence, unless the director is
satisfied that the legal proceeding is sufficiently similar or related
to an eligible offence that counselling sessions are reasonable and
necessary in the circumstances;




(b)

the sessions may be awarded in respect of, and used only during, the
period that




(i)

begins on the date that the legal proceeding is commenced, and




(ii)

ends on the date that is 18 months after that legal proceeding is
concluded or terminated;




(c)

the sessions may be used in relation to more than one legal proceeding
only




(i)

if each legal proceeding relates to the same eligible offence or the
same similar or related proceeding, and




(ii)

until the number of counselling sessions awarded is reached.




(3.2)

For greater certainty,




(a)

counselling sessions may be awarded under subsection (3) (b) whether
or not the witness attends any of the legal proceedings,




(b)

the director may determine when a legal proceeding commences,
concludes or terminates, and




(c)

if subsection (3.1) (c) applies, the period described in subsection
(3.1) (b) applies in respect of each legal proceeding.




(4)

If the witness was under 19 years old when the eligible offence that
resulted in the death or injury of the victim occurred, the director
may award more counselling sessions to the witness than the number of
sessions permitted under subsection (3) (a) if the director is
satisfied that continued counselling is reasonable and necessary.




(5)

The director may not pay more than the amount set out in Column 2
of Schedule 2 for the type of counselling session that a witness
attends.


[am. B.C. Regs. 226/2017, s. 4; 270/2023, Sch., s. 17.]






Prescription drug expenses




30

(1)


The director may award a witness a benefit referred to in section 4
(3) (b) of the Act only if




(a)

the drugs are prescribed for the witness by a medical practitioner or
a health professional authorized by law to prescribe those drugs,




(b)

the drugs are prescribed as a result of the psychological harm caused
to the witness by the victim's death or injury, and




(c)

the director is satisfied that the prescriptions drugs are necessary
and reasonable and the cost of providing the benefit is economically
reasonable.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1), the director may not pay an amount
for prescription drugs that a victim obtains outside of British
Columbia that is more than the amount payable under a drug plan
established under the Drug Plans Regulation for that type of
prescription drug.


[am. B.C. Regs. 32/2012, Sch. 2, s. 2; 73/2015, App. 2.]






Transportation and related expenses and child care expenses




31

(1)


In this section,
"related expenses"
means the cost of meals and accommodation that are incurred by a
witness as part of transportation undertaken by the witness.




(2)

The director may award a witness a benefit described as transportation
and related expenses in section 4 (3) (c) of the Act on the conditions
and subject to the limitations set out in this section.




(3)

The director may award a benefit referred to in subsection (2) to
a witness if the director is satisfied that the transportation and
related expenses are reasonable and necessary for the witness to be
able to access counselling benefits referred to in section 29.




(4)

The director may pay a witness for transportation and related expenses
at the same rate as that set for group I public service employees
under the Financial Administration Procedures Manual, published by the
Ministry of Finance, that is in effect at the time the expense is
incurred.




(5)

The director may award a witness childcare services or expenses if




(a)

the director is awarding the witness transportation and related
expenses referred to in this section,




(b)

no other person in the witness's household is reasonably able to
perform the childcare services necessary for the witness to be able to
receive the counselling benefits referred to in section 29, and




(c)

the director is satisfied that the benefit is reasonable and necessary
for the witness to be able to receive the counselling benefits
referred to in section 29.






Crime scene cleaning expenses




32

(1)


The director may award a witness of an eligible offence the benefit of
crime scene cleaning expenses only if




(a)

the victim's death or injury resulted from an eligible offence, and




(b)

the director is satisfied that




(i)

the eligible offence occurred at the residence of the witness or in a
motor vehicle owned or leased by the witness,




(ii)

exceptional and specialized cleaning is required, and




(iii)

the expenses are reasonable and necessary.




(2)

The maximum that the director may pay under subsection (1) with
respect to a victim's death is $4 000.

[am. B.C. Reg. 270/2023, Sch., s. 18.]



Part 5 — Modifications to Compensation Awarded Under the Former Act





Application and definitions




33

(1)


In this Part,
"former applicant"
means an applicant under the former Act.




(2)

This Part applies with respect to applications, applicants and
compensation under an application made under the former Act, if the
Act applies to the application.






New benefits if compensation awarded under the former Act




34

(1)


For the purposes of this section and section 35, a former applicant's
eligibility for a benefit awarded under these sections commences on
the date of reassessment or the date of reconsideration under the Act,
whichever is earlier.




(2)

Subject to this section and section 35, if an item of compensation
awarded under the former Act to a former applicant is being reassessed
under section 12 of the Act or is being reconsidered under
section 14 of the Act, the former applicant, effective on the
reassessment or reconsideration, as the case may be,




(a)

is no longer eligible for that item of compensation, and




(b)

is eligible for an item of benefit that may be awarded under the Act
for the same or a similar purpose as the item of compensation.




(3)

Subsections (4) to (6) apply if




(a)

compensation for an injury of a former applicant




(i)

is awarded as a periodic payment under the former Act, and




(ii)

is not awarded as the result of the death of a victim, and




(b)

the awarding or the amount of the compensation is being reassessed
under section 12 of the Act or being reconsidered under
section 14 of the Act.




(4)

If, on a reassessment or reconsideration under the Act, it is
determined that the injury of a former applicant has worsened from the
date when the amount of the periodic payment that is being reassessed
or reconsidered was determined under the former Act, the applicant is
eligible for a benefit that is the greater of




(a)

the amount of the periodic payment the applicant was receiving
immediately before the reassessment or reconsideration, as the case
may be, and




(b)

the periodic payment that would be awarded under the Act, if the
applicant had filed an application under the Act at the time of
reassessment or reconsideration, as the case may be.




(5)

If, on a reassessment or reconsideration under the Act, it is
determined that the injury of a former applicant is unchanged from the
date when the amount of the periodic payment that is being reassessed
or reconsidered was determined under the former Act, the applicant is
eligible for a benefit that equals the amount of the periodic payment
the applicant was receiving immediately before the reassessment or
reconsideration, as the case may be.




(6)

If, on a reassessment or reconsideration under the Act, it is
determined that the injury of a former applicant is less severe than
it was on the date when the amount of the periodic payment that is
being reassessed or reconsidered was determined under the former Act,
the applicant is eligible for a benefit that equals the amount of the
periodic payment that would be awarded under the Act, if the applicant
had filed an application under the Act at the time of reassessment or
reconsideration, as the case may be.




(7)

Subject to subsections (4) to (6), if compensation that is a deemed
benefit under section 29 (6) of the Act is subject to certain
conditions or limitations, the deemed benefit continues to be subject
to those conditions and limitations, unless the compensation,
conditions or limitations are terminated or modified under section 12
or 14 of the Act.




(8)

If periodic payments awarded to a former applicant under section 3 (1)
(b) (ii) of the former Act are reassessed under section 12 of the Act
or reconsidered under section 14 of the Act, the former applicant is
eligible to receive a benefit equal to the amount of, and subject to
the terms and conditions for, the periodic payments that may be
awarded under the former Act.




(9)

For the purposes of subsection (8), the former Act means




(a)

if the former Act is in effect at the time of the reassessment or
reconsideration, the former Act as it is on that date, and




(b)

if the former Act is not in effect at the time of the reassessment or
reconsideration, the former Act as it was immediately before its
repeal.

[am. B.C. Reg. 270/2023, Sch., s. 19.]





Counselling benefits




35

(1)


Subject to this section, a former applicant may be awarded additional
counselling sessions if the former applicant




(a)

was awarded counselling under the former Act, and




(b)

applies in a reassessment under section 12 of the Act or a
reconsideration under section 14 of the Act for additional
counselling sessions for the same injury.




(2)

If a former applicant has received by the date of the reassessment or
reconsideration, as the case may be, fewer than 36 counselling
sessions under the former Act, the former applicant is eligible to be
awarded a benefit of additional counselling sessions if the total
number of counselling sessions provided under both Acts does not
exceed 48 counselling sessions.




(3)

If a former applicant has received by the date of the reassessment or
the reconsideration, as the case may be, 36 or more counselling
sessions but fewer than 60 counselling sessions under the former Act,
the former applicant is eligible to be awarded a benefit of additional
counselling sessions if the total number of counselling sessions
provided under both Acts does not exceed 60 counselling sessions.




(4)

If a former applicant has received by the date of the reassessment or
the reconsideration, as the case may be, 60 or more counselling
sessions under the former Act, the former applicant is eligible to be
awarded a benefit of up to 12 additional counselling sessions.




(5)

A maximum number of counselling sessions that may be awarded under
another section of this regulation does not apply in the circumstances
described in this section.






Ineligible benefits




36

(1)


If a former applicant was awarded compensation for pain and suffering
under section 2 (4) (f) of the former Act, the former applicant may
not receive the following benefits with respect to the injury for
which the former applicant was awarded pain and suffering under the
former Act:




(a)

protective measures, services and expenses under section 4 (1) (f) of
the Act;




(b)

lost earning capacity under section 4 (1) (m) of the Act;




(c)

transportation and related expenses under section 4 (1) (n) of the
Act, if those expenses are related to attending legal proceedings;




(d)

maintenance of a child born as a result of a prescribed offence under
section 4 (1) (k) of the Act;




(e)

vocational services and expenses under section 4 (1) (e) of the Act,
if the former applicant was unemployed at the time of the former
applicant's injury for which compensation was awarded.




(2)

If a former applicant was awarded compensation under section 2 (4) (d)
of the former Act, the former applicant may not receive a benefit
under section 4 (1) (k) of the Act for the same injury.




(3)

If a former applicant was awarded compensation for loss of love,
guidance and affection under section 2 (4) of the former
Act, the former applicant may not receive a benefit under
section 4 (2) (g) of the Act with respect to the death
for which the former applicant was awarded compensation under
section 2 (4) (c) of the former Act.

[am. B.C. Reg. 270/2023, Sch., s. 20.]



Part 6 — Transitional Provisions





Transitional — crime scene cleaning expenses




37


Sections 19, 26 and 32, as they read immediately before the coming
into force of this section, continue to apply to benefits awarded in
relation to eligible offences that occurred before the date this
section comes into force.

[en. B.C. Reg. 270/2023, Sch., s. 21.]





Transitional — funeral expenses




38


Section 22 (2), as it read immediately before the coming into force of
this section, continues to apply to benefits awarded in relation to
eligible offences that occurred before the date this section comes
into force.

[en. B.C. Reg. 270/2023, Sch., s. 21.]





Transitional — bereavement leave




39


Section 25 (1) (a), as it read immediately before the coming into
force of this section, continues to apply to benefits awarded in
relation to eligible offences that occurred before the date this
section comes into force.

[en. B.C. Reg. 270/2023, Sch., s. 21.]





Transitional — prescribed offences




40


Schedule 1, as it read immediately before the coming into force of
this section, continues to apply for the purposes of an application
under section 3 (1) of the Act related to an offence under
the Criminal Code that occurred before the date this section comes
into force.

[en. B.C. Reg. 270/2023, Sch., s. 21.]





Transitional — Type 1 counselling




41


Item 1 in Schedule 2, as it read immediately before the coming into
force of this section, continues to apply for 6 months after the date
this section comes into force if




(a)

the person to whom a benefit in the category of benefit described as
counselling benefits or expenses is awarded was, before the date this
section comes into force, attending counselling of the type described
in Column 1 of item 1, and




(b)

the same counsellor continues, after the date this section comes into
force, to provide to the person the type of counselling described in
paragraph (a).

[en. B.C. Reg. 270/2023, Sch., s. 21.]





Transitional — counselling rates




42


The amounts set out in Column 2 of Schedule 2, as it read immediately
before the coming into force of this section, continue to apply in
relation to counselling that occurred before the date this section
comes into force.

[en. B.C. Reg. 270/2023, Sch., s. 21.]



Schedule 1

[en. B.C. Reg. 270/2023, Sch., s. 22.]
Prescribed Offences



Item

Column 1


Section of
Criminal Code



Column 2

Description of Offence



1
64
Riots


2
72
Forcible entry


3
76
Hijacking


4
77

Endangering safety of aircraft or airport



5
78

Offensive weapons and explosive substances



6
80

Breach of duty (duty of care of explosives)



7
81
Using explosives


8
85

Using firearm in commission of offence



9
86
Careless use of a firearm


10
87
Pointing a firearm


11
151
Sexual interference


12
152
Invitation to sexual touching


13
153
Sexual exploitation


14
153.1

Sexual exploitation of person with disability



15
155
Incest


16
160 (2) and (3)

Compelling the commission of bestiality; Bestiality in presence of
or by child



17
162
Voyeurism


18
162.1

Publication, etc., of an intimate image without consent



19
163.1
Child pornography


20
170

Parent or guardian procuring sexual activity



21
171.1

Making sexually explicit material available to child



22
172.1
Luring a child


23
172.2

Agreement or arrangement — sexual offence against a child



24
173

Indecent acts (only if done for a sexual purpose); Exposure



25
180
Common nuisance


26
215
Failure to provide necessaries


27
218
Abandoning child


28
220

Causing death by criminal negligence



29
221

Causing bodily harm by criminal negligence



30
229
Murder


31
236
Manslaughter


32
237
Infanticide


33
238

Killing unborn child in act of birth



34
239
Attempt to commit murder


35
241
Counselling or aiding suicide


36
244 and 244.1
Causing bodily harm with intent


37
245
Administering noxious thing


38
246

Overcoming resistance to commission of offence



39
247

Traps likely to cause bodily harm or death



40
248

Interfering with transportation facilities



41
262
Impeding attempt to save life


42
263

Failure to safeguard opening in ice/excavation on land



43
264
Criminal harassment (stalking)


44
264.1
Uttering threats


45
266
Assault


46
267

Assault with a weapon or causing bodily harm



47
268
Aggravated assault


48
269
Unlawfully causing bodily harm


49
269.1
Torture


50
270
Assaulting a Peace Officer


51
271
Sexual assault


52
272

Sexual assault with a weapon, threats to a third party or causing
bodily harm



53
273
Aggravated sexual assault


54
273.3
Removal of child from Canada


55
279
Kidnapping, forcible confinement


56
279.01
Trafficking in persons


57
279.011

Trafficking of a person under the age of eighteen years



58
279.1
Hostage taking


59
280
Abduction of person under 16


60
281
Abduction of person under 14


61
282

Abduction in contravention of custody or parenting order



62
283
Abduction


63
286.3
Procuring


64
320.102
Conversion therapy


65
320.13

Dangerous operation (of a conveyance other than a motor vehicle)



66
320.14

Operation (of a conveyance other than a motor vehicle) while
impaired



67
344
Robbery


68
346
Extortion


69
423
Intimidation


70
430 (2)

Mischief causing actual danger to life



71
433
Arson


72
436
Arson by negligence


73
437
False alarm of fire


74
465
Conspiracy to commit murder





Schedule 2

[am. B.C. Reg. 270/2023, Sch., s. 23.]
Maximum Amount for Counselling Services




Column 1

Type of Counselling


Column 2

Maximum Hourly Rate




1


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 270/2023, Sch., s. 23 (a).]





2






Individual counselling session provided by a counsellor
who is not described in item 3, 4 or 5 of this Schedule
and who has the following education, experience and
professional affiliation:



(a)

Education: an undergraduate degree in psychology or in a
field related to counselling psychology or counselling
therapy, or a 2 year diploma in counselling;



(b)

Experience: a minimum of 200 hours of supervised clinical
experience;



(c)

Professional Affiliation:




(i)

membership in good standing of, or designation or
certification by, a professional association whose members
provide counselling services, or




(ii)

for a person providing counselling in a jurisdiction in
which counselling psychology or counselling therapy is a
regulated profession, authorization to practise the
profession by the regulatory body that governs the
practice of that profession.




In paragraph (b) of this item,

"supervised clinical experience"

includes any time spent in a supervised clinical placement
approved by a college or university.







$85





3






Individual counselling session provided by a counsellor
who is not described in item 4 or 5 of this Schedule and
who has the following education, experience and
professional affiliation:



(a)

Education: a master's degree or doctorate in counselling
psychology or counselling therapy, psychotherapy,
psychology or in a field related to counselling psychology
or counselling therapy;



(b)

Experience: for a person with a professional affiliation
described in paragraph (c) (i) (C) of this item, a minimum
of 400 hours of supervised clinical experience;



(c)

Professional Affiliation:




(i)

one of the following:





(A)

membership in good standing of, and registration as a
Registered Clinical Counsellor by, the British Columbia
Association of Clinical Counsellors;





(B)

membership in good standing of, and certification as a
Canadian Certified Counsellor by, the Canadian Counselling
and Psychotherapy Association;





(C)

membership in good standing of, or designation or
certification by, another professional association whose
members provide counselling services, or




(ii)

for a person providing counselling in a jurisdiction in
which counselling psychology or counselling therapy is a
regulated profession, authorization to practise the
profession by the regulatory body that governs the
practice of that profession.




In paragraph (b) of this item,

"supervised clinical experience"

includes any time spent in a supervised clinical placement
approved by a college or university.







$135





4






Individual counselling session provided by a counsellor
who is not described in item 5 of this Schedule and who



(a)

meets either of the following descriptions:




(i)

in British Columbia, is a registrant, as defined in
section 1 of the
Social Workers Act
, in good standing;




(ii)

in another jurisdiction, is authorized to practise the
profession of social work by the regulatory body that
governs that profession, and



(b)

has a minimum of 400 hours of supervised clinical
experience, including in the provision of counselling
services.




In paragraph (b) of this item,

"supervised clinical experience"

does not include any time spent in a supervised clinical
placement approved by a college or university.







$135





5






Individual counselling session provided by a counsellor
who is



(a)

authorized under the
Health Professions Act
to practise the designated health profession of
psychology, or



(b)

authorized to practise the profession of psychology by the
body that regulates that profession in another
jurisdiction.







$205




6


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 270/2023, Sch., s. 23 (a).]





[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Crime Victim Assistance Act

, S.B.C. 2001, c. 38, ss. 3, 4, 9,
26 and 30.]



