







B.C. Reg. 386/2007

O.C. 817/2007


Deposited November 23, 2007

effective January 1, 2008





This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to Point in Time




Criminal Records Review Act


Criminal Record Check Authorizations Regulation


[includes amendments up to B.C. Reg. 128/2011, October 1, 2011]






Definitions




1


In this regulation:



"acquired injury care facility"

means a facility that is a licensed community care facility under the

Community Care and Assisted Living Act

and provides residential care for persons whose physical, intellectual
or cognitive abilities are limited primarily due to an injury,
including persons suffering from brain injuries or injuries sustained
in accidents;


"Act"
means the

Criminal Records Review Act

;



"community living care facility"

means a facility that is a licensed community care facility under the

Community Care and Assisted Living Act

and provides residential care to persons with developmental
disabilities;



"mental health and substance abuse care facility"

means a facility that is a licensed community care facility under the

Community Care and Assisted Living Act

and provides residential care for persons who are in care primarily
due to a mental disorder, substance dependence or both.


[am. B.C. Regs. 352/2010, Sch. s. 1; 128/2011, Sch. s. 1.]






Prescribed dates for employees who work with children and do not work
with vulnerable adults




2

(1)


The following dates are prescribed for the purposes of section 10 (1)
of the Act for employees working with children and not working with
vulnerable adults:




(a)

December 31, 2008, for employees employed by employers who, on January
1, 2008, employed fewer than 6 employees;




(b)

December 31, 2009, for employees employed by employers who, on January
1, 2008, employed more than 5 but fewer than 100 employees;




(c)

December 31, 2010, for employees employed by employers who, on January
1, 2008, employed 100 or more employees;




(d)

the date that is the fifth anniversary of the date the employee's
criminal record check authorization was provided in accordance with
section 9 (1) of the Act, for employees other than employees who have
provided an authorization in accordance with paragraph (a), (b) or (c)
of this subsection.




(1.1) to (4)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 128/2011, Sch. s. 2 (b).]


[am. B.C. Regs. 352/2010, Sch. s. 2; 118/2011; 128/2011, Sch. s. 2.]






Prescribed dates for employees who work with vulnerable adults and do
not work with children




3


The following dates are prescribed for the purposes of section 10 (1)
of the Act for an employee who works with vulnerable adults and does
not work with children:




(a)

for an employee who was an employee on December 31, 2010,




(i)

September 30, 2011, for an employee employed in an acquired injury
care facility or in a community living care facility,




(ii)

January 30, 2012, for an employee employed in a mental health and
substance abuse care facility, and




(iii)

July 30, 2011, for an employee employed in a facility other than those
described in subparagraph (i) or (ii);




(b)

for an employee who became an employee on or after January 1, 2011,
the date that is the fifth anniversary of the date the employee's
criminal record check authorization was provided in accordance with
section 9 (1) of the Act.

[en. B.C. Reg. 128/2011, Sch. s. 3.]





Prescribed dates for employees who work with vulnerable adults and
work with children




4


The following dates are prescribed for the purposes of section 10 (1)
of the Act for an employee who works with vulnerable adults and works
with children:




(a)

for an employee who provided a criminal record check authorization in
accordance with section 10 (1) (a) of the Act before January 1, 2011,
the date that is the fifth anniversary of the date the employee
provided the authorization;




(b)

for an employee other than an employee referred to in paragraph (a),
the date that is the fifth anniversary of the date the employee
provided a criminal record check authorization in accordance with
section 9 (1) of the Act.

[en. B.C. Reg. 128/2011, Sch. s. 3.]





Prescribed dates for members of governing bodies registered before
January 1, 2011




5


The following dates are prescribed for the purposes of section 15 (1)
of the Act:




(a)

December 31, 2008, for a registered member




(i)

whose surname begins with the letter A or E or any letter between
them, and




(ii)

who was registered by a governing body before December 31, 2008;




(b)

December 31, 2009, for a registered member




(i)

whose surname begins with the letter F or J or any letter between
them, and




(ii)

who was registered by a governing body before December 31, 2009;




(c)

December 31, 2010, for a registered member




(i)

whose surname begins with the letter K or P or any letter between
them, and




(ii)

who was registered by a governing body before December 31, 2010;




(d)

December 31, 2011, for a registered member




(i)

whose surname begins with the letter Q or U or any letter between
them, and




(ii)

who was registered by a governing body before January 1, 2011;




(e)

December 31, 2012, for a registered member




(i)

whose surname begins with the letter V or Z or any letter between
them, and




(ii)

who was registered by a governing body before January 1, 2011;




(f)

the date that is the fifth anniversary of the date the registered
member's criminal record check authorization was provided in
accordance with section 14 (1) of the Act, for




(i)

a registered member whose surname begins with the letter A or J or any
letter between them who was registered by a governing body




(A)

on or after the date prescribed under paragraph (a) or (b) for a
registered member with a corresponding class of surname, and




(B)

before January 1, 2011, and




(ii)

a registered member whose surname begins with the letter K or P or any
letter between them who was registered by a governing body on December
31, 2010.

[en. B.C. Reg. 128/2011, Sch. s. 3.]





Prescribed date for member of governing bodies registered on or after
January 1, 2011




6


The date prescribed for the purposes of section 15 (1) of the Act for
a registered member who is registered by a governing body on or after
January 1, 2011 is the date that is the fifth anniversary of the date
the registered member's criminal record check authorization was
provided in accordance with section 14 (1) of the Act.

[en. B.C. Reg. 128/2011, Sch. s. 3.]





Prescribed dates for dental technicians registered under the
Health Professions Act




6.1


Despite sections 5 and 6, the following dates are prescribed for the
purposes of section 15 (1) of the Act for a dental technician who is
registered under the

Health Professions Act

:




(a)

January 1, 2012, if the dental technician was registered before
October 1, 2011;




(b)

the date that is the fifth anniversary of the date the dental
technician's criminal record check authorization was provided in
accordance with section 14 (1) of the Act, if the dental technician is
registered on or after October 1, 2011.

[en. B.C. Reg. 128/2011, s. (c).]





Prescribed dates for independent school teachers




7


The date prescribed for the purposes of 17.7 (1) of the Act is




(a)

September 30, 2008, if an individual's certification under section 5
of the

Independent School Act

was issued before September 30, 2008, or




(b)

the date that is the fifth anniversary of the date the individual's
criminal record check authorization was provided in accordance with
section 17.6 (1) of the Act, if an individual's certification under
section 5 of the

Independent School Act

is issued on or after September 30, 2008.

[en. B.C. Reg. 128/2011, Sch. s. 3.]





Prescribed dates for child care providers




8


The date prescribed for the purposes of 21 (1) of the Act is




(a)

December 31, 2008, if a child care provider was registered before
December 31, 2008, or




(b)

the date that is the fifth anniversary of the date on which the child
care provider's criminal record check authorization was provided in
accordance with section 20 (1) of the Act, if a child care provider is
registered on or after December 31, 2008.

[en. B.C. Reg. 128/2011, Sch. s. 3.]


[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Criminal Records Review Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 86, section 29]



