







B.C. Reg. 578/2004

O.C. 1242/2004


Deposited December 13, 2004






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Forest Act


Cut Control Regulation

[Last amended January 1, 2020 by B.C. Reg. 258/2019]





Definition




1


In this regulation,
"Act"
means the

Forest Act

.




Division 1 — Penalty for Excess Harvest





Excess harvesting penalty for short term licences, forestry licences
to cut and community salvage licences




2

(1)


In this section,
"licence"
means a licence as defined in sections 75.2 (1) and 75.21 (1) of the
Act.




(2)

For the purposes of sections 75.2 (4) (b) and 75.21 (4) (b) of the
Act, the prescribed rate is,




(a)

if the volume of timber harvested in excess of the applicable limit
under section 75.2 (2) or (2.1) or 75.21 (2) of the Act is less than
or equal to 15% of the applicable limit, the lesser of




(i)

$4.00 per cubic metre, and




(ii)

the average stumpage rate that was applicable to timber harvested
under the licence during the last year in which stumpage was payable
in respect of that timber, or




(b)

if the volume of timber harvested in excess of the applicable limit
under section 75.2 (2) or (2.1) or 75.21 (2) of the Act exceeds 15% of
the applicable limit, the average stumpage rate that was applicable to
timber harvested under the licence during the last year in which
stumpage was payable in respect of that timber.

[am. B.C. Reg. 382/2008.]





Excess harvesting penalty for replaceable licences




3

(1)


In this section,
"licence"
means a licence, as defined in section 75.4 of the Act, a forest
licence, as defined in section 75.5 of the Act or a timber sale
licence as defined in section 75.5 of the Act.




(2)

For the purposes of section 75.91 (2) (b) of the Act, the prescribed
rate for a licence that is replaceable is twice the average stumpage
rate that was applicable to timber harvested under the licence during
the last year in which stumpage was payable in respect of that timber.

[am. B.C. Reg. 369/2007, s. 1.]





Excess harvesting penalty for non-replaceable licences




4

(1)


In this section,
"licence"
means a licence, as defined in section 75.4 of the Act, a forest
licence, as defined in section 75.5 of the Act or a timber sale
licence as defined in section 75.5 of the Act.




(2)

For the purposes of section 75.91 (2) (b) of the Act, the prescribed
rate for a licence that provides that a replacement for it must not be
offered is




(a)

the average stumpage rate that was applicable to timber harvested
under the licence during the last year in which stumpage was payable
in respect of that timber, for the portion of the volume of timber
harvested in excess of the applicable limit under section 75.91 (1) of
the Act that is less than or equal to 10% of the total volume of
timber authorized for harvest over the term of the licence, and




(b)

twice the average stumpage rate that was applicable to timber
harvested under the licence during the last year in which stumpage was
payable in respect of that timber, for the portion of the volume of
timber harvested in excess of the applicable limit under section 75.91
(1) of the Act that exceeds 10% of the total volume of timber
authorized for harvest over the term of the licence.

[am. B.C. Reg. 369/2007, s. 1.]



Division 2





Repealed




5-10


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 33/2018.]




Division 3





Repealed




11-16


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 33/2018.]




Division 3.1 — Adapting Cut Control Provisions if

Licence Surrendered for First Nations Woodland Licence





Definitions




16.1


In this Division:



"cut control period"

means "cut control period", as defined in section 75.1 of the Act;



"final cut control period"

, when used in relation to a pre-existing licence, means the cut
control period ending on December 31st of the year preceding the
calendar year in which the pre-existing licence is surrendered;



"final sum of allowable annual cuts"

, when used in relation to a pre-existing licence, means the sum of
the allowable annual cuts that would have been authorized under the
pre-existing licence if




(a)

the final cut control period for the pre-existing licence had a term
of 5 years, and




(b)

during that period the allowable annual cut for the pre-existing
licence remained the same;



"first nations woodland licence"

, when used in relation to a pre-existing licence, means the first
nations woodland licence that is entered into under section 43.54 (2)
of the Act after the surrender of the pre-existing licence;



"pre-existing licence"

means




(a)

a licence, as defined in section 75.4 (1) of the Act,




(b)

a forest licence, as defined in section 75.5 (1) of the Act, or




(c)

a timber sale licence, as defined in section 75.5 (1) of the Act,


that is surrendered under section 43.54 (4) (b) of the Act because the
surrender is required under the agreement between the first nation and
the government referred to in that section.


[en. B.C. Reg. 104/2011, Sch. 4; am. B.C. Regs. 203/2012, Sch. 1, s.
1; 278/2012, s. (a).]






Cut control requirements




16.2

(1)


On the surrender of a pre-existing licence, the volume of timber
harvested that was charged to the pre-existing licence in the calendar
year in which the pre-existing licence is surrendered must be charged
to the first nations woodland licence.




(2)

If the volume of timber harvested during the final cut control period
of a pre-existing licence exceeds the sum of the allowable annual cuts
for that period that are authorized for the licence, the excess volume
must be charged to the first nations woodland licence.

[en. B.C. Reg. 104/2011, Sch. 4.]





Penalty for pre-existing licences other than licences

to which section 16.4 applies




16.3

(1)


This section applies to a pre-existing licence other than




(a)

a woodlot licence referred to in section 75.4 (1) (a.1) of the Act,




(b)

a forest licence, as defined in section 75.5 (1) of the Act, or




(c)

a timber sale licence, as defined in section 75.5 (1) of the Act.




(2)

If the volume of timber harvested during the final cut control period
of a pre-existing licence to which this section applies exceeds 110%
of the final sum of allowable annual cuts, the holder of the
pre-existing licence must pay to the government the penalty determined
under subsection (3).




(3)

The penalty under subsection (2) is the product of




(a)

the volume of timber harvested that exceeds 110% of the final sum of
allowable annual cuts, and




(b)

twice the average stumpage rate that was applicable to timber
harvested under the pre-existing licence during the last year in which
stumpage was payable in respect of that timber.

[en. B.C. Reg. 104/2011, Sch. 4.]





Penalty for woodlot licence, or for forest licence or

timber sale licence defined in section 75.5 of Act




16.4

(1)


This section applies to a pre-existing licence if the pre-existing
licence is




(a)

a woodlot licence referred to in section 75.4 (1) (a.1) of the Act,




(b)

a forest licence, as defined in section 75.5 (1) of the Act, or




(c)

a timber sale licence, as defined in section 75.5 (1) of the Act.




(2)

If the volume of timber harvested during the final cut control period
of a pre-existing licence to which this section applies exceeds 120%
of the final sum of allowable annual cuts, the holder of the
pre-existing licence must pay to the government the penalty determined
under subsection (3).




(3)

The penalty under subsection (2) is the product of




(a)

the volume of timber harvested that exceeds 120% of the final sum of
allowable annual cuts, and




(b)

twice the average stumpage rate that was applicable to timber
harvested under the pre-existing licence during the last year in which
stumpage was payable in respect of that timber.

[en. B.C. Reg. 104/2011, Sch. 4.]





Penalty in addition to stumpage




16.5


A penalty under section 16.3 or 16.4 is in addition to stumpage
payable or another penalty under the Act or another enactment.

[en. B.C. Reg. 104/2011, Sch. 4.]





Provisions in Act not applicable




16.6


Sections 75.4 (7), 75.41 (2), 75.5 (5), 75.51 (2), 75.7, 75.8 and
75.91 of the Act do not apply to or in respect of




(a)

a pre-existing licence, or




(b)

the holder of that licence.

[en. B.C. Reg. 104/2011, Sch. 4.]



Division 4 — Volume of Timber Harvested





Reduction in volume of timber harvested




17

(1)


In this section:



"Coast Schedule"

means the Schedule of Coast Timber Grades to the Scaling Regulation;



"Interior Schedule"

means the Schedule of Interior Timber Grades to the Scaling
Regulation.




(2)

For the purposes of section 75.1 (3) (a) of the Act, the volume of
timber harvested attributed to a licence in cut control statements is
adjusted downward by 100% for grade code Z listed in the Coast
Schedule.




(3)

For the purposes of section 75.1 (3) (a) of the Act, the volume of
timber harvested attributed to a licence, other than a tree farm
licence, in cut control statements is adjusted downward for a grade
code listed in the Interior Schedule as follows:




(a)

for grade code 6 or Z, by 100%;




(b)

for grade code 5 listed in the Interior Schedule as it read on March
31, 2006, if that grade code is shown on a cut control statement
issued between January 1, 2006 and June 30, 2007 to the holder of the
licence, by 100%;




(c)

for grade code 3 listed in the Interior Schedule as it read on March
31, 2006, by 100%, if that grade code is




(i)

shown on a cut control statement issued between January 1, 2006 and
June 30, 2007 to the holder of the licence, and




(ii)

described as "endemic damage" or words to that effect;




(d)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 258/2019.]




(4)

For the purposes of section 75.1 (3) (a) of the Act, the volume of
timber harvested attributed in cut control statements to a tree farm
licence set out in Column 1 of Schedule B is adjusted downward for a
grade code listed in the Interior Schedule as follows:




(a)

for grade code 6 or Z, by 100%;




(b)

for grade code 5 listed in the Interior Schedule as it read on March
31, 2006, if that grade code is shown on a cut control statement
issued between January 1, 2006 and June 30, 2007 to the holder of the
licence, by 100%;




(c)

for grade code 3 listed in the Interior Schedule as it read on March
31, 2006, by 100%, if that grade code is




(i)

shown on a cut control statement issued between January 1, 2006 and
June 30, 2007 to the holder of the licence, and




(ii)

described as "endemic damage" or words to that effect;




(d)

for grade code 1, 2 or 4, if that grade code is shown on a cut control
statement issued on or after April 1, 2006 to the holder of the
licence, by the percentage for each timber species set out in Column 2
of Schedule B opposite the tree farm licence set out in Column 1 of
that Schedule.




(5)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 369/2007, s. 2 (b).]




(6)

Despite subsection (3) (d) or (4) (d) and subject to subsection (7)
and to an order of the minister under section 17.1, the volume of
timber harvested attributed to a licence in cut control statements is
adjusted downward by 100% for grade code 4 listed in the Interior
Schedule if




(a)

the timber is sold or delivered to




(i)

a mill that produces pulp, paper or newsprint,




(ii)

a chipping plant, or




(iii)

another facility that produces products from timber other than lumber
or veneer, and




(b)

the timber is scaled




(i)

before it is sold or delivered in accordance with paragraph (a), and




(ii)

on or after January 1, 2007.




(c)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 93/2014, Sch. s. 1 (d).]




(7)

Subsection (6) does not apply to the following:




(a)

a holder of a licence in cut control statements listed in Schedule D
with respect to the licence listed in that Schedule;




(b)

a forestry licence to cut;




(c)

a non-replaceable forest licence entered into under section 13 (6) of
the Act in respect of a licence under section 13 (2.1) of the Act;




(d)

a non-replaceable forest licence entered into under section 13.1 (5)
of the Act.


[en. B.C. Reg. 354/2006; am. B.C. Regs. 359/2006, s. 1; 207/2007;
254/2007; 369/2007, s. 2; 111/2008, s. (a); 128/2010; 133/2011, Sch.
s. 12; 115/2012, s. 1; 93/2014, Sch. s. 1; 258/2019.]






Minister's order setting limits on downward adjustments




17.1

(1)


The minister may set, by order respecting an area, a limit on one or
both of the following amounts:




(a)

the aggregate volume of downward adjustments that may be made under
section 17 (6) to one or more types of licences in the area;




(b)

the volume of downward adjustment that may be made under section 17
(6) to a licence or type of licence specified in the order.




(2)

If the minister sets a limit by order under subsection (1), the limit
must apply for at least 6 months.

[en. B.C. Reg. 93/2014, Sch. s. 2.]



Division 5 — Attributing Volume





Definitions and interpretation




18


In this Division:



"forest licence"

means a licence that is a forest licence;



"harvesting licence"

, in relation to a volume of timber harvested under a licence and
attributed to another licence, means the licence under which the
volume of timber was harvested;


"licence"
means a licence, as defined in a provision of Division 3.1 of Part 4
of the Act;



"receiving licence"

, in relation to a volume of timber harvested under a licence and
attributed to another licence, means the licence to which the volume
of timber is attributed;



"restricted forest licence"

means a forest licence that is a restricted forest licence, as defined
in section 14.2 (1) of the Act;



"supplemental forest licence"

means a forest licence that is a supplemental forest licence, as
defined in section 14.2 (1) of the Act.


[en. B.C. Reg. 203/2012, Sch. 1, s. 2; am. B.C. Reg. 190/2014, Sch. 3,
s. 1.]






Crediting volume between licences




19


The minister may attribute a portion of the volume of timber harvested
under a licence to another licence if,




(a)

subject to section 20, the harvesting licence and the receiving
licence each grant rights to harvest timber within the same timber
supply area,




(a.1)

subject to section 21,




(i)

the harvesting licence is a woodlot licence, and




(ii)

the receiving licence is a restricted forest licence, other than a
supplemental forest licence,




(b)

subject to section 22, the harvesting licence and the receiving
licence each grant rights to harvest timber within the same tree farm
licence area, or




(c)

subject to section 23, the harvesting licence and the receiving
licence each grant rights to harvest timber within the same woodlot
licence area.


[en. B.C. Reg. 203/2012, Sch. 1, s. 2; am. B.C. Reg. 190/2014, Sch. 3,
s. 2.]






Attribution if licences in same timber supply area




20

(1)


An attribution may be made under section 19 (a) only if




(a)

both the harvesting licence and the receiving licence are one of the
following types of licence, but the licences need not be of the same
type:




(i)

a forest licence, other than a supplemental forest licence;




(ii)

a timber sale licence that specifies an allowable annual cut;




(iii)

a forestry licence to cut that is also a major licence,




(b)

neither the harvesting licence nor the receiving licence grants rights
to harvest timber within




(i)

a tree farm licence area, or




(ii)

a woodlot licence area, and




(c)

the minister is satisfied that




(i)

both the holder of the harvesting licence and the holder of the
receiving licence consent to the attribution,




(ii)

a final cut control statement has not been issued in respect of




(A)

the relevant cut control period for the harvesting licence, or




(B)

the relevant cut control period for the receiving licence,




(iii)

the attribution to the receiving licence is being made in respect of
the same calendar year as the calendar year in which the volume of
timber being attributed was, as applicable,




(A)

reported by scale under the harvesting licence,




(B)

calculated based on a timber cruise under the harvesting licence, or




(C)

cut without authorization under the harvesting licence,




(iv)

neither the holder of the harvesting licence nor the holder of the
receiving licence is in contravention of a provision under Division
3.1 of Part 4 of the Act, and




(v)

the attribution is not contrary to the public interest.




(2)

In this subsection and subsection (1) (c) (ii) and (iii):



"calculated based on a timber cruise"

, in relation to the volume of timber being attributed, means the
volume, if any, that was calculated under section 75.1 (2) (b) of the
Act using information from a cruise of the timber before the timber
was cut;



"cut without authorization"

, in relation to the volume of timber being attributed, means the
volume, if any, that was identified under section 75.1 (2) (c) of the
Act as timber that was cut, damaged or destroyed without
authorization;



"relevant cut control period"

means,




(a)

in relation to the harvesting licence, the particular cut control
period that the harvesting licence was in at the time the volume of
timber being attributed was, as applicable,




(i)

reported by scale under the harvesting licence,




(ii)

calculated based on a timber cruise under the harvesting licence, or




(iii)

cut without authorization under the harvesting licence, and




(b)

in relation to the receiving licence, the particular cut control
period that the receiving licence was in at the time the volume of
timber being attributed was, as applicable,




(i)

reported by scale under the harvesting licence,




(ii)

calculated based on a timber cruise under the harvesting licence, or




(iii)

cut without authorization under the harvesting licence;



"reported by scale"

, in relation to the volume of timber being attributed, means the
volume, if any, that was reported by scale and identified under
section 75.1 (2) (a) of the Act.


[en. B.C. Reg. 203/2012, Sch. 1, s. 2; am. B.C. Reg. 190/2014, Sch. 3,
s. 3.]






Exception for woodlot licences and restricted forest licences




21


An attribution may be made under section 19 (a.1) only if




(a)

the woodlot licence area described in the woodlot licence




(i)

is entirely or partly within the timber supply area specified in the
restricted forest licence, or




(ii)

is entirely within a timber supply area that is adjacent to the timber
supply area specified in the restricted forest licence, and




(b)

the minister is satisfied that all of the requirements set out in
subparagraphs (i) to (v) of section 20 (c) are met.


[en. B.C. Reg. 203/2012, Sch. 1, s. 2; am. B.C. Reg. 190/2014, Sch. 3,
s. 4.]






Attribution if licences in same tree farm licence area




22


An attribution may be made under section 19 (b) only if




(a)

both the harvesting licence and the receiving licence are one of the
following types of licence, but the licences need not be of the same
type:




(i)

a forest licence, other than a supplemental forest licence;




(ii)

a timber sale licence that specifies an allowable annual cut;




(iii)

a tree farm licence;




(iv)

a forestry licence to cut that is also a major licence, and




(b)

the minister is satisfied that all of the requirements set out in
subparagraphs (i) to (v) of section 20 (c) are met.


[en. B.C. Reg. 203/2012, Sch. 1, s. 2; am. B.C. Reg. 190/2014, Sch. 3,
s. 5.]






Attribution if licences in same woodlot licence area




23


An attribution may be made under section 19 (c) only if




(a)

both the harvesting licence and the receiving licence are one of the
following types of licence, but the licences need not be of the same
type:




(i)

a non-replaceable forest licence, other than a supplemental forest
licence;




(ii)

a woodlot licence;




(iii)

a forestry licence to cut that is also a major licence, and




(b)

the minister is satisfied that all of the requirements set out in
subparagraphs (i) to (v) of section 20 (c) are met.


[en. B.C. Reg. 203/2012, Sch. 1, s. 2; am. B.C. Reg. 190/2014, Sch. 3,
s. 6.]






Bonus bid equalization payment




24

(1)


For the purposes of section 75.12 (1) of the Act, if under this
Division an attribution is made to a receiving licence for which a
bonus bid was tendered, the holder of the receiving licence must pay
to the government an amount determined in accordance with subsection
(2) of this section.




(2)

The amount payable under subsection (1) is determined as follows:




(a)

if the harvesting licence is a licence for which a bonus bid was not
required, the amount payable by the holder of the receiving licence is
determined by the following formula:






amount payable = bonus bid for receiving licence × volume



where


bonus bid for receiving licence
=

the bonus bid tendered for the receiving licence;



volume
=

the portion of the volume of timber harvested attributed to the
receiving licence;







(b)

if the harvesting licence is a licence for which a bonus bid was
required, the amount payable by the holder of the receiving licence is
determined by the following formula:






amount payable = (bonus bid for receiving licence — bonus bid
for harvesting licence) × volume



where


bonus bid for receiving licence
=

the bonus bid tendered for the receiving licence;



bonus bid for harvesting licence
=

the bonus bid tendered for the harvesting licence;



volume
=

the portion of the volume of timber harvested attributed to the
receiving licence;







(3)

The amount payable under subsection (1) must be paid by the holder of
the receiving licence within 30 days after the attribution is made.




(4)

For certainty, if the amount payable by the holder of the receiving
licence is determined in accordance with subsection (2) (b), that
amount is payable in addition to and not in place of the bonus bid
payable by the holder of the harvesting licence.

[en. B.C. Reg. 190/2014, Sch. 3, s. 7.]



Schedule A

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 258/2019.]


Schedule B


[en. B.C. Reg. 354/2006; am. B.C. Regs. 369/2007, s. 4; 111/2008, s.
(c); 384/2008, ss. (b) to (d); 300/2009, s. (b); 363/2010, s. (b);
36/2012, s. (b); 367/2012, s. 1 (b); 252/2014, s. (b); 227/2017, s.
(b).]


(Section 17 (4))





Item



Column 1

Tree Farm

Licence




Column 2

Timber Species





Deciduous


Balsam


Cedar


Fir


Hemlock


Larch



Lodgepole

Pine



Spruce



Yellow

Pine




White

Pine




White

Bark Pine



Cypress



1
TFL 01

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 384/2008, s. (b).]



2

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 363/2010, s. (b).]



3

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 36/2012, s. (b).]



4
TFL 08

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 300/2009, s. (b).]



5
TFL 14

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 384/2008, s. (b).]



6

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 36/2012, s. (b).]



7

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 227/2017, s. (b).]



8

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 36/2012, s. (b).]



9

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 252/2014, s. (b).]



10

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 36/2012, s. (b).]




11 and 12 Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 367/2012, s. 1 (b).]



13

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 36/2012, s. (b).]



14
TFL 48

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 369/2007, s. 4.]



15

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 367/2012, s. 1 (b).]



16
TFL 52

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 300/2009, s. (b).]



17

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 36/2012, s. (b).]



18
TFL 55

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 369/2007, s. 4.]



19

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 363/2010, s. (b).]






Schedule C

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 369/2007, s. 5.]


Schedule D

[en. B.C. Reg. 115/2012, s. 2.]




Item


Licence


Management Unit



1
A60064
Dawson Creek Timber Supply Area


2
A70730
Dawson Creek Timber Supply Area


3
A60049
Fort St. John Timber Supply Area


4
A85946
Fort St. John Timber Supply Area




[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Forest Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 157, ss. 75.1, 75.2 (4), 75.21 (4), 75.91 (2), 151,
151.4 and 151.5.]



