







B.C. Reg. 405/2003

O.C. 1067/2003


Deposited November 7, 2003






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.


Degree Authorization Act


Degree Authorization Regulation






Interpretation




1


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the

Degree Authorization Act

;



"consent holder"

means a person to whom the minister gives consent under section 4
of the Act in respect of a program;


"program"
means each program leading to a degree proposed by an applicant for
consent or in respect of which consent has been given to a consent
holder;


"security"
has the same meaning as "bond" as defined in the

Bonding Act

;



"unearned revenue"

means prepaid tuition fees and deposits on tuition paid by or on
behalf of a student that are not yet earned by the applicant for
consent or consent holder because the portion of the program to which
the fees or deposits relate has not been delivered, but does not
include




(a)

registration fees of less than $100,




(b)

payments received directly from a student's employer, or




(c)

payments received directly from the government of British Columbia or
the government of Canada, unless the money is paid under the British
Columbia Student Assistance Program.






Security




2

(1)


For the purposes of section 4 (4) (a) of the Act, security is
prescribed respecting all applicants for consent and consent holders,
except for the following:




(a)

Trinity Western University;




(b)

Seminary of Christ the King;




(c)

a public post-secondary institution.




(2)

An applicant for consent must give security for a program that is




(a)

acceptable security under section 7.403 of the Bonding Regulations,
and




(b)

subject to subsection (3), in an amount that is calculated by




(i)

making a projection of unearned revenue for 12 consecutive calendar
months beginning on the month during which the applicant gives
security,




(ii)

identifying the highest monthly amount of unearned revenue from the
projections made under subparagraph (i), and




(iii)

multiplying the highest monthly amount identified under subparagraph
(ii) by 0.75.




(3)

The amount of security given in respect of all programs must be at
least $100 000.




(4)

A consent holder must maintain security for a program that is




(a)

acceptable security under section 7.403 the Bonding Regulations, and




(b)

subject to subsection (5), in an amount that is calculated by




(i)

making a projection of unearned revenue




(A)

for 12 consecutive calendar months beginning on the month during which
the consent holder gave security under subsection (2),




(B)

for each calendar month beginning on the August 1 following the date
consent is given and ending on July 31 of the subsequent year, or




(C)

for each calendar month during a subsequent year, beginning on August
1 and ending on the following July 31

whichever is applicable,



(ii)

identifying the highest monthly amount of unearned revenue from the
projections made under subparagraph (i), and




(iii)

multiplying the highest monthly amount identified in accordance with
subparagraph (ii) by 0.75.




(5)

The amount of security maintained must




(a)

if for any month the actual unearned revenue of the consent holder is
expected to exceed the amount of unearned revenue projected and
calculated under subsection (4) (b), be immediately re-calculated and
adjusted by multiplying the expected actual unearned revenue for that
month by 0.75, and




(b)

be at least $100 000 in respect of all programs.




(6)

A consent holder must




(a)

notify the minister of a re-calculation and adjustment of the amount
of security under subsection (5) (a), and




(b)

provide evidence that is satisfactory to the minister that security is
being maintained in accordance with this section, annually and when
requested by the minister.






Fees




3


An applicant for consent must pay to the Minister of Finance for an
item described in column 1 of the Table the fee set out in column 2
opposite that item.






Column 1

Item





Column 2

Fee




Application for consent

$3 500



Conduct of review for quality assessment



$1 500 in respect of the chair of the quality assessment panel

$1 000 in respect of each member of the quality assessment panel






[Provisions of the

Degree Authorization Act

, S.B.C. 2002, c. 24, relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
section 9]



