







B.C. Reg. 41/2009

O.C. 119/2009


Deposited March 2, 2009






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.


Medicare Protection Act



Disclosure of

Prescribed Information Regulation







Definition




1


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the

Medicare Protection Act

;



"contact information"

has the same meaning as in Schedule 1 of the

Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act

.






Prescribed information for section 49 (2) (b) (i) of the Act




2

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), the following information is prescribed for
the purposes of section 49 (2) (b) (i) of the Act:




(a)

whether a hearing is scheduled and, if so, when it is scheduled;




(b)

whether the hearing is under way and the number of days remaining for
which it has been scheduled;




(c)

whether the matter that resulted in the hearing has been settled or
discontinued and whether the hearing has concluded or been
discontinued, dismissed or adjourned;




(d)

the order or a copy of the order made by the commission in relation to
the hearing;




(e)

subject to subsection (3), the reasons or a copy of the reasons given
by the commission for the order referred to in paragraph (d).




(2)

Subsection (1) applies only in relation to a hearing that results from
one or more of any of the following:




(a)

an audit of claims for payment by a practitioner or of patterns of
billing followed by a practitioner, to determine compliance with
section 17 of the Act;




(b)

an audit referred to in section 36 (2) (b) or (c) of the Act;




(c)

an inspection in respect of an audit referred to in paragraph (a) or
(b).




(3)

If the reasons referred to in subsection (1) (e) include




(a)

the name, personal health number or contact information of a
beneficiary, or




(b)

the name or contact information of a practitioner who is not the
subject of the hearing,


the prescribed information is the reasons or a copy of the reasons
without that information.






Prescribed information for section 49 (2) (b) (ii) of the Act




3

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), the following information is prescribed for
the purposes of section 49 (2) (b) (ii) of the Act:




(a)

whether the commission has considered the information provided by the
person;




(b)

if the commission has considered the information provided by the
person, the determination of the commission about whether an audit or
inspection will occur;




(c)

when the audit or inspection is scheduled to begin or whether one or
both are under way or have concluded or been abandoned;




(d)

if an audit or inspection has concluded, whether the report referred
to in section 36 (11) of the Act has been made;




(e)

a copy of the report under section 36 (11).




(2)

Subsection (1) applies only in relation to the following:




(a)

an audit of claims for payment by a practitioner or of patterns of
billing followed by a practitioner, to determine compliance with
section 17 of the Act;




(b)

an audit referred to in section 36 (2) (b) or (c) of the Act;




(c)

an inspection in respect of an audit referred to in paragraph (a) or
(b).




(3)

If the report referred to in subsection (1) (e) includes




(a)

the name, personal health number or contact information of a
beneficiary, or




(b)

the name or contact information of a practitioner who is not the
subject of the audit,


the prescribed information is a copy of the report without that
information.






Prescribed information for section 49 (2) (b) (iii) of the Act




4


For the purposes of section 49 (2) (b) (iii) of the Act, the following
information is prescribed:




(a)

that an application for an injunction has been made to the Supreme
Court under section 45.1 of the Act, the court registry in which the
application has been filed and the court file number;




(b)

the date scheduled for hearing of the application;




(c)

the court order or a copy of the court order resulting from the
application.






Prescribed information for section 49 (2) (c) of the Act




5

(1)


For the purposes of section 49 (2) (c) of the Act, the following
information is prescribed:




(a)

subject to subsection (2), in the case of a hearing under section 15
(2) or 37 (1) of the Act,




(i)

whether a hearing is scheduled and, if so, when it is scheduled;




(ii)

whether the hearing is under way and the number of days remaining for
which it has been scheduled;




(iii)

whether the matter that resulted in the hearing has been settled or
discontinued and whether the hearing has concluded, or been
discontinued, dismissed or adjourned;




(iv)

the order or a copy of the order made by the commission in relation to
the hearing;




(v)

subject to subsection (4), the reasons or a copy of the reasons given
by the commission for the order referred to in subparagraph (iv);




(b)

subject to subsection (3), in the case of an audit under section 36 of
the Act,




(i)

when the audit or inspection is scheduled to begin or whether one or
both are under way or have concluded or been abandoned;




(ii)

if the audit or inspection has concluded, whether the report referred
to in section 36 (11) of the Act has been made;




(iii)

a copy of the report made under section 36 (11) of the Act;




(c)

in the case of an application for an injunction,




(i)

that an application for an injunction has been made to the Supreme
Court under section 45.1 of the Act, the court registry in which the
application has been filed and the court file number;




(ii)

the date scheduled for hearing of the application;




(iii)

the court order or a copy of the court order resulting from the
application.




(2)

Subsection (1) (a) applies only to a hearing that results from one or
more of any of the following:




(a)

an audit of claims for payment by a practitioner or of patterns of
billing followed by a practitioner, to determine compliance with
section 17 of the Act;




(b)

an audit referred to in section 36 (2) (b) or (c) of the Act;




(c)

an inspection in respect of an audit referred to in paragraph (a) or
(b).




(3)

Subsection (1) (b) applies only to the following:




(a)

an audit of claims for payment by a practitioner or of patterns of
billing followed by a practitioner, to determine compliance with
section 17 of the Act;




(b)

an audit referred to in section 36 (2) (b) or (c) of the Act;




(c)

an inspection in respect of an audit referred to in paragraph (a) or
(b).




(4)

If the reasons referred to in subsection (1) (a) (v) include




(a)

the name, personal health number or contact information of a
beneficiary, or




(b)

the name or contact information of a practitioner who is not the
subject of the hearing,


the prescribed information is the reasons or a copy of the reasons
without that information.




(5)

If the report referred to in subsection (1) (b) (ii) includes




(a)

the name, personal health number or contact information of a
beneficiary, or




(b)

the name or contact information of a practitioner who is not the
subject of the audit,


the prescribed information is a copy of the report without that
information.



[Provisions of the

Medicare Protection Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 286, relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
section 51]



