







B.C. Reg. 93/59

O.C. 1491/43






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Plant Protection Act


Domestic Bacterial Ring Rot Regulation

[Last amended March 30, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 76/2022]





Regulation title




1


This regulation may be cited as the "Domestic Bacterial Ring Rot
Regulation".






Definitions




2


In this regulation, unless the context otherwise requires:


"Act"
means the

Plant Protection Act

;


"grower"
means any person occupying land for the purpose of producing potatoes;


"inspector"
means an inspector appointed under the Act;



"plant pathologist"

means a plant pathologist authorized by the minister.

[am. B.C. Reg. 112/2014, App. s. 17 (a).]





Inspection may be done any time




3


Any inspector appointed to carry out this regulation may inspect any
grower's crop in field or storage at any time.






Suspected rot must be reported




4


Any person who discovers or suspects the presence of bacterial ring
rot in the person's crop, either in the field or storage, shall
promptly notify a plant pathologist, submitting specimens of potato
tubers so infected or suspected to be infected.


[am. B.C. Regs. 4/2010, s. 2; 112/2014, App. s. 17 (b) and (c);
76/2022, s. 4.]






Infected potatoes to be detained




5


A plant pathologist having determined the presence of bacterial ring
rot in the specimens submitted shall so notify the inspector who shall
cause any infected potatoes to be placed under detention.






No movement or sale of detained potatoes




6


Any inspector carrying out such order shall attach to any lot of
potatoes a detention tag bearing the legend "Bacterial Ring Rot
Regulation, under detention," and signed with the inspector's name.
Thenceforth no person shall plant, sell or offer for sale, move, allow
or cause to be moved any such potatoes, or remove such detention tags
without the written authority of an inspector.






Detained potatoes to be examined by plant pathologist




7


Any inspector determining or suspecting the presence of bacterial ring
rot in any lot of potatoes shall place a detention tag on any such lot
of potatoes, duly notifying the grower of the inspector's action, and
submit samples to a plant pathologist.


[am. B.C. Regs. 112/2014, App. s. 17 (b); 76/2022, s. 4.]






Disposal of infected potatoes




8


In the case of positive identification of bacterial ring rot the
inspector shall promptly instruct the grower, shipper or the agent of
the grower or shipper to cause all such potatoes to be moved to a
processing plant, or otherwise dispose of same as the inspector may
direct.


[am. B.C. Regs. 112/2014, App. s. 17 (b); 76/2022, s. 11.]






Disinfection of premises and equipment




9


When an inspector has determined or suspects the presence of bacterial
ring rot on any premises, the inspector shall direct that any cellar,
bin or other storage place, equipment, implement or machinery which
has been or is suspected to have been in contact with any such
infected potatoes be disinfected in accordance with instructions
issued by the inspector. No person shall use crates, bags or other
containers used for infected potatoes unless the same have been
disinfected to the satisfaction of the inspector. No implements,
equipment or machinery shall be used on or moved from any farm or
premises found infected with bacterial ring rot before such
disinfection has been effected.


[am. B.C. Regs. 112/2014, App. s. 17 (d); 76/2022, s. 3.]






Infected land must not bear potatoes next year




10


Any grower whose field or land has borne a crop of potatoes infected
with bacterial ring rot shall not permit the same area to be planted
to potatoes the following year and shall destroy any volunteer plants
on such land.






Planting of adjacent land after infection




11


No grower whose field or land has produced a crop of potatoes infected
with bacterial ring rot may plant potatoes on any adjacent field or
land unless duly certified seed potatoes are used or unless the grower
obtains a written permit from the inspector to plant uncertified
potatoes.


[am. B.C. Regs. 112/2014, App. s. 17 (d); 76/2022, s. 3.]






Offence




12


Any person who fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
regulation, or who fails to comply with any directions of the
inspector, shall be guilty of an offence and liable, on summary
conviction, to a fine not exceeding $250.



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Plant Protection Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 365, s. 8.]



