







B.C. Reg. 170/2020

Chief Electoral Officer


Deposited July 7, 2020






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)




Election Act


Election Financing Regulation






Definition




1


In this regulation,
"Act"
means the

Election Act

.






Additional information to be included in candidate election financing
reports




2


For the purposes of section 209 (2) (l) of the Act, an election
financing report for a candidate must include the following
information:




(a)

the name of the political party the candidate represents, if
applicable;




(b)

the name of the electoral district in which the election was held;




(c)

for each fundraising function held by or on behalf of the candidate,
details about income not reported as political contributions,
including the number of tickets sold and the charge per ticket.






Classes of election expenses incurred by candidate




3


For the purposes of section 209 (3) of the Act, the election expenses
incurred by a candidate must be reported according to the following
classes:




(a)

accounting and audit services;




(b)

the following classes of advertising:




(i)

commercial canvassing in person, by telephone or by mobile device;




(ii)

newspapers and periodicals;




(iii)

promotional materials, including newsletters, brochures, buttons and
novelty items;




(iv)

radio;




(v)

search engine marketing and optimization;




(vi)

signs;




(vii)

social media;




(viii)

television;




(ix)

website displays;




(x)

other forms of advertising;




(c)

bank charges;




(d)

conventions, workshops and meetings;




(e)

donations and gifts;




(f)

excess nomination contestant expenses referred to in section 183 (5)
of the Act;




(g)

fundraising functions;




(h)

furniture and equipment;




(i)

interest expense;




(j)

net losses arising from fundraising functions;




(k)

the nomination deposit for the candidate;




(l)

office rent, utilities, insurance and maintenance;




(m)

office supplies and stationery;




(n)

personal election expenses paid by the candidate;




(o)

personal election expenses paid or reimbursed from the account
referred to in section 177 (2) (b) of the Act for the candidate;




(p)

postage and courier;




(q)

professional services;




(r)

research and data, including election surveys and polls;




(s)

salaries and benefits;




(t)

social functions;




(u)

subscriptions and dues;




(v)

telecommunications and information technology;




(w)

transfers, referred to in section 180 (6) of the Act, made by the
candidate;




(x)

travel;




(y)

other election expenses.






Additional information to be included in registered political party
election financing reports




4


For the purposes of section 210 (2) (h) of the Act, an election
financing report for a registered political party must include the
following information:




(a)

for each fundraising function held by or on behalf of the registered
political party, details about income not reported as political
contributions, including the number of tickets sold and the charge per
ticket;




(b)

details about any income received and any expenditures made or
incurred by the registered political party in relation to the
election, if these are not otherwise disclosed in the report.






Classes of election expenses of registered political party




5


For the purposes of section 210 (3) of the Act, the election expenses
of a registered political party must be reported according to the
following classes:




(a)

accounting and audit services;




(b)

the following classes of advertising:




(i)

commercial canvassing in person, by telephone or by mobile device;




(ii)

newspapers and periodicals;




(iii)

promotional materials, including newsletters, brochures, buttons and
novelty items;




(iv)

radio;




(v)

search engine marketing and optimization;




(vi)

signs;




(vii)

social media;




(viii)

television;




(ix)

website displays;




(x)

other forms of advertising;




(c)

bank charges;




(d)

conventions, workshops and meetings;




(e)

donations and gifts;




(f)

fundraising functions;




(g)

furniture and equipment;




(h)

interest expense;




(i)

net losses arising from fundraising functions;




(j)

office rent, utilities, insurance and maintenance;




(k)

office supplies and stationery;




(l)

postage and courier;




(m)

professional services;




(n)

research and data, including election surveys and polls;




(o)

salaries and benefits;




(p)

social functions;




(q)

subscriptions and dues;




(r)

telecommunications and information technology;




(s)

transfers, referred to in section 180 (6) of the Act, made by the
registered political party;




(t)

travel;




(u)

other election expenses.






Additional information to be included in registered constituency
association election financing reports




6


For the purposes of section 210 (2) (h) of the Act, an election
financing report for a registered constituency association must
include, for each fundraising function held by or on behalf of the
registered constituency association, details about income not reported
as political contributions, including the number of tickets sold and
the charge per ticket.






Election expenses not to be included for election expenses limit




7

(1)


In this section,
"security services"
means the services of




(a)

conducting, supervising or inspecting a guard patrol or watch of
property or persons, or




(b)

responding to a security alarm.




(2)

For the purposes of section 203 (1) (i) of the Act, the following
expenses are not to be included as election expenses for the purpose
of determining whether an organization or individual has complied with
an election expenses limit:




(a)

transfers referred to in section 180 (6) of the Act;




(b)

the cost of any communications that a candidate representing a
registered political party in an election sends exclusively to members
of the political party or members of a registered constituency
association for the political party;




(c)

the cost of any communications that an independent candidate sends
exclusively to members of a registered constituency association
referred to in section 166 (4)
[automatic deregistration of constituency associations]
of the Act for the individual;




(d)

the portion of transportation costs and costs for food, refreshments
and communications equipment for which a political party or candidate
is reimbursed by media representatives accompanying election tours;




(e)

the cost of security services, if the individuals engaged in providing
the services do not, while providing those services,




(i)

carry or wear flags, badges or any other thing indicating that the
individual promotes or opposes a particular candidate or registered
political party, or




(ii)

engage in any campaigning, including engaging in discussions of a
partisan nature,




(A)

to promote or oppose, directly or indirectly, the election of a
candidate, or




(B)

to promote or oppose, directly or indirectly, a registered political
party.






Election expenses not to be reimbursed




8


For the purposes of section 215.04 (2) (d) of the Act, the following
classes of election expenses must not be reimbursed:




(a)

donations and gifts;




(b)

expenses incurred exclusively for the day-to-day administration of a
registered political party or a registered constituency association;




(c)

fundraising activities, including fundraising functions;




(d)

intoxicants, including alcohol and cannabis;




(e)

salaries and benefits of candidates.



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Election Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 106, s. 283.]



