







B.C. Reg. 305/2016

O.C. 912/2016


Deposited December 8, 2016

effective January 1, 2017





This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Food and Agricultural Products Classification Act


Enforcement Regulation

[Last amended March 30, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 76/2022]





Definition




1


In this regulation,
"Act"
means the

Food and Agricultural Products Classification Act

.






Service of orders




2

(1)


Orders and notices of variations of orders may be served on the person
who is subject to the order or notice as follows:




(a)

personally;




(b)

by registered mail sent to the person's last known address;




(c)

by electronic mail sent to the person's last known electronic mail
address;




(d)

if the order is in respect of a place, by posting it at a conspicuous
location on the place.




(2)

If an order or notice is sent by registered mail, the order or notice
is deemed to be served on the person to whom it is addressed on the
14th day after deposit with Canada Post, unless the person received
actual service before that day.




(3)

Subject to subsection (4), if an order or notice is sent by electronic
mail, the order or notice is not effectively served unless all of the
following conditions are met:




(a)

the person who is subject to the order or notice confirms that the
order or notice was received;




(b)

the confirmation is made




(i)

both verbally and by electronic mail,




(ii)

by fax, including the person's signature, or




(iii)

in writing, including the person's signature;




(c)

the confirmation is received by the person who served the order or
notice, or a person acting on that person's behalf, no later than 96
hours after the electronic message was sent.




(4)

The time limit set out in subsection (3) (c) does not apply if the
person who is subject to the order or notice confirms, in writing and
including the person's signature, after the expiry of the 96 hour
period that the order or notice




(a)

was received by the person, and




(b)

is effectively served.

[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 4.]





Reassessment of orders




3

(1)


A person may request reassessment of an order under section 19
[variation and reassessment of orders]
of the Act if the person is subject to an order made under section 15
(b) to (e) or (h)
[orders that may be made]
of the Act.




(2)

A request for reassessment must be made in writing to the inspector
who made the order stating the reasons why the order should be
reassessed.




(3)

Within 72 hours of receiving a request for reassessment, the inspector
who made the order must consider whether the order, or conditions
within the order, continue to be necessary for the purposes of the
Act.




(4)

A second request for reassessment may be made in accordance with
subsection (2) not earlier than 7 days following the first request.




(5)

A third or subsequent request for reassessment may be made in
accordance with subsection (2) not earlier than 14 days following the
most recent request.






Applications to court




4

(1)


An application to court for a warrant under section 24 of the Act may
be made




(a)

by submitting information on oath in the form set out as Form 1 of the
Schedule, and




(b)

in person, or if the inspector making the application believes it
would be impracticable to appear in person, by telephone or other
means of telecommunication.




(2)

A warrant may be issued in the form set out as




(a)

Form 2 of the Schedule, if the application was made in person, or




(b)

Form 3 of the Schedule, if the application was made by telephone or
other means of telecommunication.




(3)

An application to court for an injunction under section 25 of the Act
may be made by filing an application in accordance with the Supreme
Court Civil Rules.




Schedule


(section 4)











[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Food and Agricultural Products Classification Act

, S.B.C. 2016, c. 1, s. 49 (2) (c) and (d) and (4) (a) and (c).]



