







B.C. Reg. 88/2009

O.C. 189/2009


Deposited March 6, 2009

effective April 27, 2009





This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Business Corporations Act



Extraprovincial Companies and

Foreign Entities from

a Designated Province Regulation


[Last amended January 1, 2020 by B.C. Reg. 268/2019]





Definitions and interpretation




1

(1)


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the

Business Corporations Act

;



"extraprovincial company"

means a foreign entity that is registered as an extraprovincial
company under this regulation;



"foreign entity"

means a foreign entity from a designated province;



"registration statement"

means data about a foreign entity received electronically by the
registrar from the extraprovincial registrar.




(2)

References to "registration statement" in provisions of the Act that
apply to a foreign entity or extraprovincial company must, when the
context requires, be read as that term is defined in subsection (1).






Designated provinces




2


For the purposes of Division 4 of Part 11 of the Act and this
regulation, the following are designated provinces:




(a)

Alberta;




(b)

Saskatchewan;




(c)

Manitoba.


[en. B.C. Reg. 141/2012, s. 1; am. B.C. Reg. 268/2019, s. (a).]






Exemption and disapplication




3

(1)


Section 377 of the Act does not apply in respect of a foreign entity.




(2)

An extraprovincial company is exempt from section 380 of the Act and
items 2, 4, 5 and 15 of the Schedule to the Act.




(3)

Sections 379 (3) and (5) and 422 (1) (a) of the Act do not apply in
respect of an extraprovincial company.




(4)

Sections 381 to 383, 389, 391, 393 and 395, insofar as they refer to a
form established by the registrar, do not apply to a foreign entity or
an extraprovincial company from a designated jurisdiction.




(5)

Item 13 of the Schedule to the Act, insofar as it refers to assumed
names, does not apply to a foreign entity or an extraprovincial
company from a designated jurisdiction.






Manner in which registrar may accept records, etc.




4


The registrar may accept records, filings, applications, information,
forms, notices and fees respecting an extraprovincial company or
foreign entity from an extraprovincial registrar in one or more of the
following manners, as applicable:




(a)

electronically;




(b)

by facsimile transmission;




(c)

by mail.






Registration of foreign entity as extraprovincial company




5

(1)


After a foreign entity complies with section 376 of the Act to the
satisfaction of the registrar, the registrar may




(a)

accept the registration statement, and




(b)

register the foreign entity as an extraprovincial company.




(2)

After a foreign entity is registered under subsection (1) of this
section, the registrar must




(a)

issue a certificate of registration showing




(i)

the name and any assumed name for the extraprovincial company,




(ii)

its registration number, and




(iii)

the date and time of its registration,




(b)

furnish to the extraprovincial company that certificate and a copy of
the registration statement,




(c)

furnish a copy of the registration statement to each attorney referred
to in the registration statement who has not been furnished with a
copy of that record under paragraph (b), and




(d)

publish notice of the registration on a website maintained by or on
behalf of the government of British Columbia.






Personal information â€” residential addresses




6


The registrar may




(a)

collect the residential address of a director or an attorney of a
foreign entity or an extraprovincial company from a person other than
the director or attorney for the purposes of registration of, and the
maintenance of registration of, the foreign entity or extraprovincial
company, as the case may be,




(b)

disclose the residential address of a director or an attorney of an
extraprovincial company to the public for the purposes of the Act and
this regulation, and




(c)

collect the residential address of a director or an attorney of a
company and disclose the residential address to an extraprovincial
registrar for the purposes of registration of, and the maintenance of
registration of, the company in a designated province.






Registration of foreign entity as amalgamated extraprovincial company




7

(1)


After notice of amalgamation of an extraprovincial company is filed
with the registrar, the registrar must




(a)

issue a certificate of registration showing




(i)

the name and any assumed name for the amalgamated extraprovincial
company,




(ii)

its registration number and the date and time of its registration, and




(iii)

the date, and the time, if any, shown for the amalgamation or similar
process on the notice of amalgamation of the extraprovincial company,




(b)

furnish to the amalgamated extraprovincial company the certificate
referred to in paragraph (a) and a copy of the notice of amalgamation
of the extraprovincial company,




(c)

furnish a copy of the notice of amalgamation of the extraprovincial
company to each attorney of the amalgamated extraprovincial company
who has not been furnished with a copy of that record under paragraph
(b), and




(d)

publish notice of the amalgamation or similar process on a website
maintained by or on behalf of the government of British Columbia.




(2)

At any time, before or after a certificate of registration is issued
under subsection (1), the registrar may order the amalgamated foreign
entity to provide to the registrar, within the time required by the
registrar, proof satisfactory to the registrar of the foreign entity's
status in the foreign entity's jurisdiction.






Foreign entity not intending to carry on business




8


If a foreign entity files with the registrar a notice that the foreign
entity does not carry on business in British Columbia and does not
intend to carry on business in British Columbia, the registrar may
cancel its registration.






How registrar may transmit records, etc.




9

(1)


The registrar may collect records, filings, applications, information,
forms, notices and fees from a company for an extraprovincial
registrar and transmit them to the extraprovincial registrar in one or
more of the following manners, as applicable:




(a)

electronically;




(b)

by facsimile transmission;




(c)

by mail.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the registrar may collect a name
search fee for a name search required by the extraprovincial registrar
for Alberta and transmit the fee to the service provider.




(3)

In subsection (2),
"service provider"
means the service provider designated by the registrar to perform a
name search required by the extraprovincial registrar referred to in
that subsection.

[am. B.C. Reg. 141/2012, s. 2.]





Registrar must obtain consent




10


Before transmitting the matters referred to in section 9 to an
extraprovincial registrar, the registrar must obtain the consent of
the company.



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Business Corporations Act

, S.B.C. 2002, c. 57, ss. 399.2 (1) and 432.]



