







B.C. Reg. 346/88

O.C. 1573/88


Deposited August 29, 1988

effective September 1, 1988





This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Family Maintenance Enforcement Act


Family Maintenance Enforcement Act Regulation


[Last amended May 17, 2021 by B.C. Reg. 23/2021

and includes amendments by B.C. Reg. 64/2021]






Interpretation




1

(1)


In this regulation,
"Act"
means the

Family Maintenance Enforcement Act

.




(2)

In the Act,
"clerk of the court"
means a person, however described, that performs the duties of a clerk
of the court.

[en. B.C. Reg. 227/2016, s. 1.]





Applicability of other enactments




2

(1)


Subject to the Act and this regulation, for the purposes of the Act
and this regulation,




(a)

the provisions of the

Family Law Act

and the Provincial Court Family Rules apply in a Provincial Court
proceeding, and




(b)

the provisions of the Family Law Act and Supreme Court Family Rules
apply in a Supreme Court family law case.




(2)

The

Offence Act

applies to




(a)

the service of a summons under section 23 (1) of the Act, and




(b)

the service and execution of a warrant for arrest under section 23 (2)
of the Act and of a committal order made under section 23 (4) of the
Act.


[am. B.C. Regs. 196/90, s. 2; 82/93, Sch. s. 1; 151/2010; 366/2012;
23/2021, App. 6, s. 1.]






Forms




3

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), the prescribed forms for the purposes of
the Act and this regulation are the following as set out in the
Schedule:




(a)

statement of finances;




(b)

the following notices of attachment:




(i)

for attachment of a debtor's federal salary, as defined in section
13 (1), notice of attachment (net pay);




(ii)

for attachment in any other case, notice of attachment (gross pay);




(c)

response by attachee;




(d)

either of the 2 forms of statement of arrears;




(e)

statement of income and expenses;




(f)

notice to attend payment conference;




(g)

consent to register a transfer or an agreement for sale of a
manufactured home or to issue a transport permit for a manufactured
home.




(1.1)

More than one notice of attachment referred to in subsection (1) (b)
may be served on an attachee in respect of the same debtor.




(2)

If a form listed in subsection (1) is transmitted electronically, the
prescribed form may be a digital form that contains the information
required in the applicable form set out in the Schedule.


[en. B.C. Reg. 160/95, s. 1; am. B.C. Regs. 91/98, s. 1; 182/2011, s.
1; 227/2016, s. 2.]






Filing orders with the director




4


The prescribed manner for filing a maintenance order under section 3
(1) or 6 (6) of the Act is to provide the director with a copy of the
maintenance order.

[en. B.C. Reg. 182/2011, s. 2.]





Withdrawal from filing




5


The prescribed circumstances for the purposes of section 6 (3) (b) of
the Act are that the director has reason to believe




(a)

the debtor has left the Province,




(b)

the creditor, in relation to the maintenance order,




(i)

has verbally or in writing provided false information,




(ii)

has falsified the certification of a court order or other document,




(iii)

has falsified evidence that a document was witnessed or sworn to,




(iv)

has received, without advising the director, payments of maintenance
directly from the debtor while the maintenance order was filed under
section 3 of the Act,




(v)

has provided insufficient information or has refused to execute
documents necessary to facilitate the monitoring or enforcement of the
order, or




(vi)

cannot be located,




(c)

the creditor or debtor has died, or




(d)

no further regular payments are due under the maintenance order and
the arrears are under $50.


[en. B.C. Reg. 266/92, s. 2; am. B.C. Reg. 160/95, s. 2.]






Refiling




5.1

(1)


If a maintenance order is withdrawn from filing because the director
has reason to believe the creditor has contravened section 5 (1) of
the Act or has done anything described in section 5 (b) (i) to (v) of
this regulation, the director may refuse to accept the order for
refiling until 6 months after the withdrawal date.




(2)

If the creditor has withdrawn a maintenance order not less than twice
in any 2 year period, the director may refuse to accept the order for
refiling until 6 months after the latest withdrawal date.

[en. B.C. Reg. 160/95, s. 3.]





Repealed




6


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 160/95, s. 4.]






Interest on arrears




6.1

(1)


The rate of interest payable under section 11.1 (2) of the Act is an
annual rate equal to the prime rate of the principal banker to the
Government.




(2)

During the first 6 months of a year, interest shall be calculated at
the rate under subsection (1) as at January 1 and during the last 6
months interest shall be calculated at the rate under subsection (1)
as at July 1.




(3)

Subject to subsection (4), interest accrues on maintenance payments in
arrears from the date the arrears become payable.




(4)

Maintenance payments in arrears on the date section 11.1 of the
Act comes into force begin to accrue interest from that date.




(5)

For the purposes of subsections (3) and (6), maintenance becomes
payable




(a)

on the payment date specified in the maintenance order, or




(b)

on the last day of the month in which the maintenance became payable,
if no date is specified in the maintenance order.




(6)

Despite subsection (3), if maintenance is paid within 15 days after it
becomes payable, no interest is payable on the amount paid.


[en. B.C. Reg. 358/96, s. 2; am. B.C. Reg. 129/2019, s. 1.]






Calculation of interest




6.2

(1)


Interest must be calculated daily as simple interest and accrued each
calendar month.




(2)

If a calendar month for which a calculation is being made under
subsection (1) has not ended, the accrual referred to in subsection
(1) respecting the calendar month shall be for the portion of the
month that has passed at the time of the calculation.

[en. B.C. Reg. 358/96, s. 2.]





Calculation of days




6.3


Section 25 (2) to (6) of the

Interpretation Act

does not apply to the calculation of any period of days referred to in
section 6.1 (6), 6.2 or 6.4.

[en. B.C. Reg. 358/96, s. 2.]





Interest exemptions




6.4

(1)


No interest accrues on arrears of maintenance during any period in
respect of which the debtor establishes that the debtor received
income assistance.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1),
"income assistance"
means the following:




(a)

income assistance paid under section 28 of B.C. Reg. 263/2002, the
Employment and Assistance Regulation;




(b)

disability assistance paid under section 24 of B.C. Reg. 265/2002, the
Employment and Assistance for Persons with Disabilities Regulation;




(c)

income assistance paid under the Aboriginal Affairs and Northern
Development Canada Income Assistance Program to eligible individuals.


[en. B.C. Reg. 358/96, s. 2; am. B.C. Regs. 182/2011, s. 3; 138/2014.]






Limits on enforcement of interest by director




6.5

(1)


For the purpose of section 11.1 (3) of the Act, the director must not
enforce payment of interest that accrued before the date the
maintenance order was most recently filed with the director, except
interest fixed and included by the court in that order.




(2)

The following dates are not considered to be "the date the maintenance
order was most recently filed with the director" for the purpose of
subsection (1) if they differ from the date the maintenance order
itself is filed:




(a)

the date an order for costs is filed;




(b)

the date an order for variation or enforcement of the maintenance
order is filed.

[en. B.C. Reg. 358/96, s. 2.]





Debtor's prescribed documents




7


The prescribed documents for the purposes of sections 12 (2), 13 (2)
and 14 (1) of the Act are the following:




(a)

a copy, certified by Revenue Canada, of each of the 3 most recent
income tax returns filed with Revenue Canada by the debtor and of the
assessment notice that relates to each of those returns;




(b)

a copy of each pay stub or similar statement received during the past
6 months by or on behalf of the debtor from the debtor's employer to
account for the debtor's employee income and deductions;




(c)

a copy of each statement of income other than employee income received
during the past 6 months by or on behalf of the debtor, including
unemployment insurance, disability, pension, superannuation and
workers' compensation benefits;




(d)

a copy of the most recent assessment notice for each property in which
the debtor holds a beneficial interest;




(e)

a copy of each statement of account received during the past 12 months
by the debtor from a savings institution, insurer, broker or other
investment institution;




(f)

a copy of each credit card statement the debtor has received during
the past 12 months.

[en. B.C. Reg. 160/95, s. 5.]





Service of a notice of attachment or attachment order




8

(1)


A notice of attachment may be served on an attachee




(a)

by mailing it by ordinary or registered mail to the attachee's
address,




(b)

by personal service,




(c)

by facsimile, or




(d)

by electronic transmission using secure web services or by other
similar secure means.




(2)

An attachment order may be served on an attachee




(a)

by mailing a copy of it by registered mail to the attachee's address,




(b)

by personal service,




(c)

by facsimile, or




(d)

by electronic transmission using secure web services or by other
similar secure means.




(3)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 160/95, s. 6.]




(3.1)

A notice of attachment sent in accordance with subsection (1) or (2)
is deemed to have been served on an attachee




(a)

if sent by mail, 14 business days after being sent,




(b)

if sent by facsimile or electronic transmission, 3 business days after
being sent.




(4)

and (5) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 160/95, s. 6.]




(6)

If the attachee has more than one place for the service of process and
service of a notice of attachment or attachment order is made at one
of these places that, but for this subsection, would not serve to
attach the attachee's debt to the debtor, the notice is deemed
properly served for the purpose of attachment 48 hours after the time
of actual service.




(7)

Subject to subsections (1) and (2), rules 182 to 185 and 187 of the
Provincial Court Family Rules applies to service of a notice of
attachment or attachment order on an attachee.


[en. B.C. Reg. 82/93, Sch. s. 2; am. B.C. Regs. 160/95, s. 6;
182/2011, s. 4; 23/2021, App. 6, s. 2.]






Response to a notice of attachment




9

(1)


For the purposes of section 16 (1) of the Act, the response of an
attachee to a notice of attachment shall




(a)

be in the response by attachee form set out in the Schedule,




(b)

state the particulars of the attachee's indebtedness to the debtor,
and




(c)

be filed with the director by the attachee within 10 days of service
of the notice of attachment.




(2)

An application for the purposes of section 16 (4) of the Act shall be
made within 10 days after the refusal of the director, at the court
location where the maintenance order was filed, and shall be in the
form usually used for application to the court.

[am. B.C. Regs. 160/95, s. 7; 182/2011, s. 5.]





Notice by financial institutions to deposit account holders




9.1

(1)


The following information must be included in the notice required,
under section 15 (3.2) of the Act, to be sent by an attachee to the
director and the joint, or joint and several, account holders of a
deposit account in respect of the deposit account:




(a)

the name of the debtor;




(b)

the name of the creditor;




(c)

the name of any joint, or joint and several, account holders of the
deposit account;




(d)

the name of the person who may be contacted on behalf of the director
by the joint, or joint and several, account holders of the deposit
account regarding the notice of attachment;




(e)

the number of the deposit account;




(f)

the balance in the deposit account at the time the notice was served
on the attachee;




(g)

the amount in the deposit account that has been attached and paid to
the director;




(h)

the right of the joint, or joint and several, account holders to apply
to the court for an order that all or part of the money paid to the
director by the attachee be returned to the joint, or joint and
several, account holders.




(2)

The attachee must send the notice required under section 15 (3.2) of
the Act to




(a)

the joint, or joint and several, account holders, by ordinary mail to
the most recent address recorded in the records of the attachee for
that account holder, within 2 days of service of a notice of
attachment, and




(b)

the director, by ordinary mail or by electronically transmitting the
information required under subsection (1) to the director using secure
web services or by other similar secure means within 5 days of service
of a notice of attachment.


[en. B.C. Reg. 19/2009, s. 1; am. B.C. Reg. 182/2011, s. 6.]






Repealed




10


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 227/2016, s. 3.]






Further statements from the attachee




11


At the request of the director, an attachee shall provide the director
with a written statement setting out




(a)

the period during which the attachee paid wages, salary or other
remuneration to the debtor,




(b)

the particulars of the exemptions and deductions made by the attachee
from the salary, wages or other remuneration paid to the debtor during
that period, and




(c)

any payments made by the attachee to the debtor during that period.






Withdrawal of attachment




12


The prescribed circumstances for the purposes of section 16 (8) (c) of
the Act are that the maintenance order has been withdrawn under
section 6 of the Act.






Prescribed payments and benefits




12.1


The prescribed payments and benefits for the purposes of section 25 of
the Act are




(a)

payments under the
Medical and Health Care Services Act
,




(b)

benefits under the

Workers Compensation Act

,




(c)

payments under the

Criminal Injury Compensation Act

, and




(d)

payments by the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia under the

Insurance (Vehicle) Act

.


[en. B.C. Reg. 160/95, s. 9; am. B.C. Reg. 148/2007.]






Amount exempt from attachment




13

(1)


In this section:



"federal benefits"

means benefits payable to a debtor under




(a)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 19/2009, s. 2 (b).]




(b)

the

Employment Insurance Act
(Canada)

,




(c)

section 3, 11, 19 or 21 of the

Old Age Security Act
(Canada)

, or




(d)

the

Canada Pension Plan

,


but does not include benefits paid under the

Employment Insurance Act
(Canada)

to a province or municipality on behalf of the debtor;



"federal salary"

has the same meaning as
"salary"
in the

Garnishment, Attachment and Pension Diversion Act
(Canada)

;



"fee for service"

means an amount payable to a debtor for work or services performed by
the debtor other than as an employee, and includes




(a)

payments under the
Medical and Health Care Services Act
,




(b)

payments by dental and other insurers for dental and orthodontic
services, and




(c)

fees payable under

Legal Services Society Act

;



"gross amount"

, in relation to any money or other benefits payable to a debtor,
means the amount before any deductions are made, including, but not
limited to, deductions




(a)

under an enactment of Canada or a province of Canada,




(b)

under a collective agreement or other agreement, or




(c)

in accordance with an assignment or other authorization by the debtor;



"non-deductible maintenance"

means maintenance owed under a maintenance order that includes a
provision requiring the payment of an amount that




(a)

is a child support amount as defined in the

Income Tax Act

(Canada), and




(b)

is not deductible against income for the purposes of the

Income Tax Act

(Canada);



"remuneration"

means the gross amount of




(a)

wages, salary, commissions and other money payable to a debtor by the
debtor's employer for work or services performed by the debtor as an
employee,




(b)

benefits payable on a periodic basis to a debtor under a pension or
superannuation plan or under the

Workers Compensation Act

, or




(c)

benefits payable on a periodic basis to a debtor under an insurance
policy for long term or short term disability insurance,


but does not include federal benefits or federal salary.




(2)

Subject to subsection (2.1), if a debtor's remuneration or federal
salary is attached under a notice of attachment, the debtor is
entitled to an exemption in the amount determined by the attachee




(a)

in the case of regularly scheduled remuneration, in accordance with
either subsection (3) or subsection (4),




(a.1)

in the case of regularly scheduled payment of federal salary, in
accordance with either subsection (6.1) or (6.3),




(b)

in the case of remuneration that is additional to and separate from
the debtor's regularly scheduled remuneration, by applying subsection
(3) (a), and




(c)

in the case of payment of federal salary that is additional to and
separate from the debtor's regularly scheduled payment of federal
salary, by applying subsection (6.1) (a).




(2.1)

If a debtor's remuneration or federal salary is attached under a
notice of attachment that relates to a default in the payment of
non-deductible maintenance, the debtor is entitled to an exemption in
the amount determined by the attachee




(a)

in the case of regularly scheduled remuneration, in accordance with
either subsection (3.1) or (4.1),




(a.1)

in the case of regularly scheduled payment of federal salary, in
accordance with either subsection (6.2) or (6.4),




(b)

in the case of remuneration that is additional to and separate from
the debtor's regularly scheduled remuneration, by applying subsection
(3.1) (a), and




(c)

in the case of payment of federal salary that is additional to and
separate from the debtor's regularly scheduled payment of federal
salary, by applying subsection (6.2) (a).




(3)

The amount of a debtor's remuneration exempt under subsection (2) (a)
from attachment may be determined as follows:




(a)

if the remuneration is paid once a week, by adding the following:




(i)

$150;




(ii)

65% of any remuneration above $150 and not above $520;




(iii)

50% of any remuneration above $520 and not above $1 155;




(iv)

45% of any remuneration above $1 155;




(b)

if the remuneration is paid once every 2 weeks, by adding the
following:




(i)

$300;




(ii)

65% of any remuneration above $300 and not above $1 040;




(iii)

50% of any remuneration above $1 040 and not above $2 310;




(iv)

45% of any remuneration above $2 310;




(c)

if the remuneration is paid twice a month, by adding the following:




(i)

$325;




(ii)

65% of any remuneration above $325 and not above $1 125;




(iii)

50% of any remuneration above $1 125 and not above $2 500;




(iv)

45% of any remuneration above $2 500;




(d)

if the remuneration is paid monthly, by adding the following:




(i)

$650;




(ii)

65% of any remuneration above $650 and not above $2 250;




(iii)

50% of any remuneration above $2 250 and not above $5 000;




(iv)

45% of any remuneration above $5 000;




(e)

if the remuneration is paid otherwise than as set out in paragraphs
(a) to (d), by calculating the annual remuneration based on the
remuneration for the actual pay period, dividing the annual
remuneration by 12 and applying paragraph (d).




(3.1)

The amount of a debtor's remuneration exempt under subsection (2.1)
(a) from attachment may be determined as follows:




(a)

if the remuneration is paid once a week, by adding the following:




(i)

$150;




(ii)

75% of any remuneration above $150 and not above $520;




(iii)

60% of any remuneration above $520 and not above $1 155;




(iv)

55% of any remuneration above $1 155;




(b)

if the remuneration is paid once every 2 weeks, by adding the
following:




(i)

$300;




(ii)

75% of any remuneration above $300 and not above $1 040;




(iii)

60% of any remuneration above $1 040 and not above $2 310;




(iv)

55% of any remuneration above $2 310;




(c)

if the remuneration is paid twice a month, by adding the following:




(i)

$325;




(ii)

75% of any remuneration above $325 and not above $1 125;




(iii)

60% of any remuneration above $1 125 and not above $2 500;




(iv)

55% of any remuneration above $2 500;




(d)

if the remuneration is paid monthly, by adding the following:




(i)

$650;




(ii)

75% of any remuneration above $650 and not above $2 250;




(iii)

60% of any remuneration above $2 250 and not above $5 000;




(iv)

55% of any remuneration above $5 000;




(e)

if the remuneration is paid otherwise than as set out in paragraphs
(a) to (d), by calculating the annual remuneration based on the
remuneration for the actual pay period, dividing the annual
remuneration by 12 and applying paragraph (d).




(4)

If a debtor's remuneration is payable with the frequency and is within
a range set out in any column A of Table 1, the amount exempt under
subsection (2) (a) from attachment may be determined by deducting from
the remuneration the amount set out opposite that range in column C.




(4.1)

If the remuneration of a debtor is attached under a notice of
attachment referred to in subsection (2.1) and the debtor's
remuneration is payable with the frequency and is within a range set
out in any column A of Table 2, the amount exempt under subsection
(2.1) (a) from attachment may be determined by deducting from the
remuneration the amount set out opposite that range in column C.




(5)

Subject to subsection (5.1), 50% of any fee for service is exempt from
attachment under a notice of attachment.




(5.1)

If a debtor's remuneration or federal salary is attached under a
notice of attachment that relates to a default in the payment of
non-deductible maintenance, 65% of any fee for service is exempt from
attachment under the notice of attachment.




(6)

Seventy-five percent of federal benefits are exempt from attachment
under a notice of attachment.




(6.1)

The amount of a debtor's federal salary exempt under subsection (2)
(a.1) from attachment may be determined as follows:




(a)

if federal salary is paid once a week, by adding the following:




(i)

$125;




(ii)

55% of any federal salary above $125 and not above $425;




(iii)

20% of any federal salary above $425 and not above $925;




(iv)

0% of any federal salary above $925;




(b)

if federal salary is paid once every 2 weeks, by adding the following:




(i)

$250;




(ii)

55% of any federal salary above $250 and not above $850;




(iii)

20% of any federal salary above $850 and not above $1 845;




(iv)

0% of any federal salary above $1 845;




(c)

if federal salary is paid twice a month, by adding the following:




(i)

$275;




(ii)

55% of any federal salary above $275 and not above $925;




(iii)

20% of any federal salary above $925 and not above $2 000;




(iv)

0% of any federal salary above $2 000;




(d)

if federal salary is paid monthly, by adding the following:




(i)

$550;




(ii)

55% of any federal salary above $550 and not above $1 850;




(iii)

20% of any federal salary above $1 850 and not above $4 000;




(iv)

0% of any federal salary above $4 000;




(e)

if federal salary is paid otherwise than as set out in paragraphs (a)
to (d), by calculating the annual federal salary based on the federal
salary for the actual pay period, dividing the annual federal salary
by 12 and applying paragraph (d).




(6.2)

The amount of a debtor's federal salary exempt under subsection (2.1)
(a.1) from attachment may be determined as follows:




(a)

if federal salary is paid once a week, by adding the following:




(i)

$125;




(ii)

65% of any federal salary above $125 and not above $425;




(iii)

40% of any federal salary above $425 and not above $925;




(iv)

0% of any federal salary above $925;




(b)

if federal salary is paid once every 2 weeks, by adding the following:




(i)

$250;




(ii)

65% of any federal salary above $250 and not above $850;




(iii)

40% of any federal salary above $850 and not above $1 845;




(iv)

0% of any federal salary above $1 845;




(c)

if federal salary is paid twice a month, by adding the following:




(i)

$275;




(ii)

65% of any federal salary above $275 and not above $925;




(iii)

40% of any federal salary above $925 and not above $2 000;




(iv)

0% of any federal salary above $2 000;




(d)

if federal salary is paid monthly, by adding the following:




(i)

$550;




(ii)

65% of any federal salary above $550 and not above $1 850;




(iii)

40% of any federal salary above $1 850 and not above $4 000;




(iv)

0% of any federal salary above $4 000;




(e)

if federal salary is paid otherwise than as set out in paragraphs (a)
to (d), by calculating the annual federal salary based on the federal
salary for the actual pay period, dividing the annual federal salary
by 12 and applying paragraph (d).




(6.3)

If a debtor's federal salary is payable with the frequency and is
within a range set out in column A of Table 3, the amount exempt under
subsection (2) (a.1) from attachment may be determined by deducting
from the federal salary the amount set out opposite that range in
column C.




(6.4)

If federal salary of a debtor is attached under a notice of attachment
referred to in subsection (2.1) and the debtor's federal salary is
payable with the frequency and is within a range set out in any column
A of Table 4, the amount exempt under subsection (2.1) (a.1) from
attachment may be determined by deducting from the federal salary the
amount set out opposite that range in column C.




(7)

Subsections (2) to (5) and (6.1) to (6.4) apply to a notice of
attachment that is served after this section comes into force.




(8)

Subsections (2), (3), (4), (5), (6.1), (6.3) and (7) apply to an
attachment order unless the court orders otherwise.




(8.1)

Subsections (2.1), (3.1), (4.1), (5.1), (6.2) and (6.4) apply to an
attachment order that relates to a default in the payment of
non-deductible maintenance unless the court orders otherwise.




(9)

Section 3 of the

Court Order Enforcement Act

continues to apply for determining the amount of wages, salary or
other remuneration that is exempt from attachment under a notice of
attachment that was issued or served before this section comes into
force.




(10)

Subsection (6) applies to any amount that is payable by an attachee
after this section comes into force, whether the notice of attachment
was issued or served before or after this section comes into force.


[en. B.C. Reg. 160/95, s. 10; am. B.C. Regs. 344/97, ss. 1 to 5;
19/2009, ss. 2 to 6.]






Power to increase or decrease amount exempt from attachment




13.1

(1)


Subject to subsection (3), on application by a debtor named in a
notice of attachment,




(a)

the director may increase the amount that under section 13 is exempt
from attachment, and




(b)

if the director refuses to do so, the court may, by order, increase
the amount of the exemption.




(2)

Subject to subsection (3), on application by the debtor, the court
may, by order, increase the amount that under section 13 is
exempt from attachment under an attachment order.




(3)

An exemption may be increased only if the increase is necessary to
enable the debtor to meet the debtor's basic needs for food, shelter
and clothing.




(4)

On application by the director or, if the creditor's maintenance order
is not filed with the director, by the creditor, the court may
decrease the amount that under section 13 is exempt from attachment
under a notice of attachment or attachment order.




(5)

The court's power under subsection (4) to decrease an exemption is
subject to any regulations made under section 61 (1) (a.1) of the
Family Orders and Agreements Enforcement Assistance Act
(Canada).


[en. B.C. Reg. 160/95, s. 10; am. B.C. Reg. 64/2021, s. 3.]






Third party's prescribed documents




13.2

(1)


The prescribed documents for the purposes of section 39 of the Act are
the following:




(a)

for an individual, a copy, certified by Revenue Canada, of each of the
3 most recent income tax returns filed by the individual with Revenue
Canada and of the assessment notice that relates to each of those
returns;




(b)

for a proprietorship,




(i)

a declaration, signed by the proprietor, of the name of the
proprietorship, and




(ii)

a detailed declaration of the assets and liabilities of the
proprietorship;




(c)

for a partnership,




(i)

a copy of the most recent declaration filed under the

Partnership Act

showing the firm name and the name of each member, and




(ii)

a detailed declaration of the assets and liabilities of the
partnership;




(d)

for a corporation,




(i)

a copy of its certificate of incorporation,




(ii)

a copy of its register of members and its register of directors,




(iii)

a copy of its most recent annual report filed under the

Company Act

or under the

Canada Business Corporations Act

,




(iv)

a detailed declaration of its assets and liabilities,




(v)

a list of all corporations with which it is affiliated within the
meaning in the

Company Act

or the

Canada Business Corporations Act

, and




(vi)

a copy, certified by Revenue Canada, of each of the 3 most recent
income tax returns filed by the corporation with Revenue Canada and of
the assessment notice that relates to each of those returns.




(2)

For the purposes of section 39 of the Act,
"financial statement"
means




(a)

in relation to an individual, a statement of finances in the
applicable form set out in the Schedule, and




(b)

in relation to a proprietorship, partnership or corporation, a
complete set of financial statements, including a balance sheet, a
statement of income or loss and all notes and schedules relating to
the financial statements.

[en. B.C. Reg. 160/95, s. 11.]





Service on director




13.3


A notice or other document may be served on the director by mailing it
by registered mail to any postal address provided by the director for
that purpose.

[en. B.C. Reg. 160/95, s. 11.]





Refusal to accept uncertified cheques




14


The director may refuse to accept an uncertified cheque from a person
if




(a)

a cheque received by the director from that person on any previous
occasion did not clear a savings institution due to insufficient
funds, or




(b)

the person has defaulted in a payment required under section 21 (1)
(d) or (e) of the Act.

[en. B.C. Reg. 160/95, s. 12.]





Costs to be awarded




15


If satisfied that a debtor who is a party to a proceeding before the
court could have avoided defaulting under a maintenance order, the
court may award as costs against the debtor a fixed sum of $400 in
favour of the following:




(a)

the director, if the maintenance order is filed with the director;




(b)

the creditor, if the maintenance order is not filed with the director.

[en. B.C. Reg. 160/95, s. 13.]





Notification by the attachee if payments cease




16


Within 10 days of ceasing to make payments under a notice of
attachment or attachment order, the attachee must advise the director
in writing stating




(a)

the date and circumstances that resulted in the attachee ceasing to
make these payments,




(b)

the date and circumstances, if any, for resumption of an obligation of
the attachee to pay money to the debtor in the future, and




(c)

if payments ceased because the debtor ceased to be employed by the
attachee




(i)

the name and address of the debtor's new employer, where these are
known to the attachee, and




(ii)

the pay, salary or other monetary benefits to which the debtor became
entitled from the attachee on termination.

[en. B.C. Reg. 266/92, s. 4.]





Discharge or postponement fee




17


A debtor must pay to the director a fee of $150, if the director signs
a discharge or postponement of the registration in a land title office
of a maintenance order when the debtor still owes arrears under the
order.

[en. B.C. Reg. 91/98, s. 2.]





Default fee




18

(1)


In this section:



"monthly equivalent amount"

means the amount of the periodic payment under the maintenance order
multiplied by the monthly equivalent adjustment;



"monthly equivalent adjustment"

means




(a)

if the frequency of maintenance payment is monthly, 1,




(b)

if the frequency of maintenance payment is every 2 weeks, 2.17,




(c)

if the frequency of maintenance payment is every 3 weeks, 1.44,




(d)

if the frequency of maintenance payment is weekly, 4.33,




(e)

if the frequency of maintenance payment is twice per month, 2,




(f)

if the frequency of maintenance payment is 3 times per month, 3,




(g)

if the frequency of maintenance payment is every 2 months, 0.50,




(h)

if the frequency of maintenance payment is every 3 months, 0.33,




(i)

if the frequency of maintenance payment is every 4 months, 0.25, or




(j)

if the frequency of maintenance payment is every 6 months, 0.17.




(2)

For the purpose of section 14.4 of the Act, the annual default fee is




(a)

$400 if the monthly equivalent amount is $400 or more,




(b)

$0 if the monthly equivalent amount is $26 or less, and




(c)

if the monthly equivalent amount is greater than $26 and less than
$400, the monthly equivalent amount.

[en. B.C. Reg. 91/98, s. 3.]





Registration in personal property security registry




19


The prescribed circumstances for the purpose of section 26.1 of the
Act are that the debtor is in arrears under a maintenance order at the
time the claim is registered.

[en. B.C. Reg. 91/98, s. 4.]





Debtor's driver's licence




20


The prescribed amount of security for the purpose of section
29.1 (4) of the Act is the amount payable by the debtor under the
maintenance order for the 4 month period immediately preceding
the date the security is requested by the director.

[en. B.C. Reg. 91/98, s. 5.]





Notice — pending suspension of driver's licence




20.01

(1)


The notice required to be given under section 29.1 (2) of the Act may
be given by




(a)

delivering a copy to the debtor,




(b)

mailing a copy by ordinary mail to the most recent address shown for
the debtor in the records of the director, or




(c)

posting a private, secure notice to the debtor on the website operated
and maintained by or on behalf of the director.




(2)

A notice given under subsection (1) (b) or (c) is deemed to be
received by the debtor 7 days after the notice is mailed or posted, as
the case may be.

[en. B.C. Reg. 129/2019, s. 2.]





Notice — pending suspension of licence and number plates




20.1

(1)


The notice required under section 29.1 (2.1) of the Act must be given
to the debtor by




(a)

delivering a copy to the debtor,




(b)

mailing a copy by ordinary mail to the most recent address shown for
the debtor in the records of the director, or




(c)

posting a private, secure notice to the debtor on the website operated
and maintained by or on behalf of the director.




(2)

A notice given under subsection (1) (b) or (c) is deemed to be
received by the debtor 7 days after the date the notice is mailed or
posted, as the case may be.

[en. B.C. Reg. 23/2021, App. 2.]





Disclosure of information to credit reporting agency




21


The prescribed circumstances for the purpose of section 43 (3) of the
Act are that




(a)

the debtor is in arrears $2 000 under a maintenance order on the
date when the first report is made, and




(b)

the debtor is in arrears on the date when any subsequent reports are
made.

[en. B.C. Reg. 91/98, s. 3.]





Disclosure of information by British Columbia Lottery Corporation




22

(1)


For the purposes of section 25.1 (3) of the Act, the prescribed
information is




(a)

information sufficient to confirm the identity of the debtor,
including the following:




(i)

name;




(ii)

date of birth;




(iii)

driver's licence number, if the debtor has a driver's licence,




(b)

the total amount of the prize to which the debtor is entitled, and




(c)

the amount that the corporation is paying to the director.




(2)

For the purposes of section 25.1 (4) of the Act, the prescribed prize
amount is $9 999.99.


[en. B.C. Reg. 19/2009, s. 8; am. B.C. Reg. 182/2011, s. 7.]




Schedule





The forms referred to in section 3 of this regulation are:

[en. B.C. Reg. 160/95, s. 15.]










































[en. B.C. Reg. 227/2016, s. 4 (a).]






[en. B.C. Reg. 227/2016, s. 4 (b).]







[en. B.C. Reg. 19/2009, s. 9 (b); am. B.C. Reg. 182/2011, s. 9.]




[en. B.C. Reg. 267/92.]






[en. B.C. Reg. 160/95, s. 15.]






[en. B.C. Reg. 91/98, s. 7 (b).]



[en. B.C. Reg. 91/98, s. 7 (b).]





Table 1


[en. B.C. Reg. 160/95, s. 16; am. B.C. Reg. 19/2009, s. 10 (a).]















Table 2


[en. B.C. Reg. 344/97, s. 7; am. B.C. Reg. 19/2009, s. 10 (b).]















Table 3

[en. B.C. Reg. 19/2009, s. 10 (c).]














Table 4

[en. B.C. Reg. 19/2009, s. 10 (d).]













[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Family Maintenance Enforcement Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 127, s. 51.]



