







B.C. Reg. 222/2013

M282/2013


Deposited October 31, 2013






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.


Health Authorities Act


Fraser Health Authority Special Directions Regulation






Definitions




1


In this regulation:


"board"
means the regional health board known as the Fraser Health Authority;


"region"
means the area of British Columbia that, under the Regional Health
Boards Regulation, B.C. Reg. 293/2001, constitutes the region for the
board;



"review committee"

means a committee established by the minister and comprised of the
chair of the board and other persons whom the minister believes to
have the necessary skills and experience for the purposes of sections
4 and 5;



"service outcome targets"

means the intended patient health outcomes resulting from the delivery
of health programs and services in the region.






Directions of minister




2


The requirements of this regulation are special directions of the
minister for the purposes of section 7.1 of the

Health Authorities Act

.






Operational and financial plan for remainder of fiscal year




3

(1)


On or before November 30, 2013, the board must submit to the minister,
in the form and manner required by the minister, an operational and
financial plan in respect of the remainder of the current fiscal year.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1), the board must




(a)

prepare the plan in consultation with the Ministry of Health, and




(b)

account, within the plan, for all supplemental funds provided to the
board by the Ministry of Health for the current fiscal year.




(3)

The board must amend the plan if and as required by the minister until
the minister approves the plan.




(4)

The board must instruct its senior management to ensure that the
service outcome targets and operational and financial objectives
identified in the approved plan are achieved by the end of the current
fiscal year.




(5)

The board must report to the minister as follows:




(a)

reports must be submitted




(i)

on January 15, 2014, for the period beginning December 1, 2013 and
ending December 31, 2013,




(ii)

on February 15, 2014, for the period beginning January 1, 2014 and
ending January 31, 2014, and




(iii)

on March 15, 2014, for the period beginning February 1, 2014 and
ending February 28, 2014;




(b)

reports must describe, in detail satisfactory to the minister, the
extent to which the service outcome targets and operational and
financial objectives identified in the approved plan have been
achieved within the reporting period;




(c)

reports must be submitted in the form and manner required by the
minister.






Strategic review




4

(1)


The board must conduct a review, with the assistance of the review
committee, for the purpose of creating the strategic and operational
plan required under section 5.




(2)

A review must take into consideration at least the following:




(a)

the health needs of the region's population;




(b)

the service capacity of health care providers and facilities in the
region;




(c)

the proportionate level of health programs, services and expenditures
dedicated to acute care, primary care, home and community care and
mental health care services in the region, and whether these levels
optimally meet the health needs of the region's population;




(d)

whether there is duplication or redundancy in the delivery of health
programs and services between the board and neighbouring regional
health boards;




(e)

whether the health needs of the region's population would be met more
effectively or efficiently by changing the area of British Columbia
that constitutes the region;




(f)

the structure and function of the operational management in the region
and the effect of that structure and function on the board's ability
to carry out the board's governance role, including




(i)

the structure of senior management roles,




(ii)

planning by senior management,




(iii)

systems of reporting and accountability to the board by senior
management, and




(iv)

the working relationship and the distribution of responsibilities
between on-site managers of health programs and services and managers
overseeing general health program and service delivery in the region;




(g)

the effectiveness of senior management in




(i)

engaging and collaborating with medical practitioners working in the
region,




(ii)

engaging with professional and support staff that are employed by or
contracted to work with the board, and




(iii)

engaging and communicating with patients and other stakeholders;




(h)

the effectiveness of the working relationship between senior
management and the executive and staff of the Ministry of Health.






Strategic and operational plan




5

(1)


On or before May 31, 2014, the board must submit to the minister, in
the form and manner required by the minister, a strategic and
operational plan in respect of the fiscal years 2014/2015, 2015/2016
and 2016/2017.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1), the board must




(a)

prepare the plan with the assistance of the review committee,




(b)

base the plan on the results of the review conducted under section 4,
and




(c)

ensure that the plan does all of the following:




(i)

describes the results of the review;




(ii)

identifies service outcome targets, operational and financial
objectives and operational and financial goals;




(iii)

sets out the strategies needed to achieve the targets, objectives and
goals identified under subparagraph (ii);




(iv)

describes how operations will be structured and performed in order to
implement the strategies set out under subparagraph (iii).




(3)

The board must amend the plan if and as required by the minister until
the minister approves the plan.




(4)

The board must report to the minister as follows:




(a)

reports must be submitted every 3 months, with the first report
submitted October 15, 2014 and the last report submitted April 15,
2017;




(b)

reports must be submitted




(i)

on October 15, for the period beginning July 1 and ending September
30,




(ii)

on January 15, for the period beginning October 1 and ending December
31,




(iii)

on April 15, for the period beginning January 1 and ending March 31,
and




(iv)

on July 15, for the period beginning April 1 and ending June 30;




(c)

reports must describe, in detail satisfactory to the minister, the
extent to which the service outcome targets and operational and
financial objectives identified in the approved plan have been
achieved within the reporting period;




(d)

reports must be submitted in the form and manner required by the
minister.




(5)

The board must use the approved plan as the basis of the board's
service plan in meeting its obligations under the

Budget Transparency and Accountability Act

.






Other obligations of board




6


Nothing in this regulation affects an obligation of the board to
comply with any other policy, direction or agreement to which the
board is subject.



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Health Authorities Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 180, section 7.1]



