







B.C. Reg. 155/2012

O.C. 491/2012


Deposited June 25, 2012






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act



Freedom of Information and

Protection of Privacy Regulation



[Last amended February 1, 2023 by B.C. Reg. 248/2022]






Definitions




1


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the

Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act

;



"commercial applicant"

means a person who makes a request for access to a record to obtain
information for use in connection with a trade, business, profession
or other venture for profit;



"health professional"

means a medical practitioner, psychologist, registered nurse or
registered psychiatric nurse.






Oral requests




2


An applicant may make an oral request for access to a record if




(a)

the applicant's ability to read or write English is limited, or




(b)

the applicant has a physical disability that impairs the applicant's
ability to make a written request.

[am. B.C. Reg. 64/2021, s. 3.]





Who may act for a minor




3

(1)


A guardian of a minor may act for the minor in relation to any of the
following sections of the Act if the minor is incapable of acting
under that section:




(a)

section 5;




(b)

section 10 (1) (d);




(c)

section 26 (d);




(d)

section 27 (1) (a) (i);




(e)

section 29 (1);




(f)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 297/2021, Sch. 3, s. 1 (a).]




(g)

section 32 (b);




(h)

section 33 (2) (c).




(2)

A guardian of a minor may exercise a power granted to the guardian
under subsection (1) of this section only if the power is within the
scope of the guardian's duties or powers.

[am. B.C. Reg. 297/2021, Sch. 3, s. 1.]





Who may act for an adult




4

(1)


In this section,
"representative"
means any of the following persons:




(a)

a committee appointed under the

Patients Property Act

;




(b)

a person acting under a power of attorney;




(c)

a litigation guardian;




(d)

a representative acting under a representation agreement, as defined
in the

Representation Agreement Act

.




(2)

A representative of an adult may act for the adult in relation to any
of the following sections of the Act:




(a)

section 5;




(b)

section 10 (1) (d);




(c)

section 26 (d);




(d)

section 27 (1) (a) (i);




(e)

section 29 (1);




(f)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 297/2021, Sch. 3, s. 1 (a).]




(g)

section 32 (b);




(h)

section 33 (2) (c).




(3)

A representative of an adult may exercise a power granted to the
representative under subsection (2) of this section only if the power
is within the scope of the representative's duties or powers.

[am. B.C. Reg. 297/2021, Sch. 3, s. 1.]





Who may act for a deceased individual




5

(1)


In this section:



"appropriate person"

means,




(a)

in respect of a deceased adult, one of the following:




(i)

a committee acting under section 24 of the

Patients Property Act

for the deceased;




(ii)

if there is no committee acting for the deceased, the personal
representative of the deceased;




(iii)

if there is no committee acting for the deceased and no personal
representative of the deceased, the nearest relative of the deceased,
and




(b)

in respect of a deceased minor, one of the following:




(i)

the personal representative of the deceased;




(ii)

if there is no personal representative of the deceased, a guardian of
the deceased immediately before the date of death;




(iii)

if there is no personal representative or guardian of the deceased,
the nearest relative of the deceased;



"nearest relative"

means the first person referred to in the following list who is
willing and able to act under subsection (2) of this section for a
deceased individual:




(a)

spouse of the deceased at the time of death;




(b)

adult child of the deceased;




(c)

parent of the deceased;




(d)

adult sibling of the deceased;




(e)

other adult relation of the deceased other than by marriage;




(f)

an adult immediately related to the deceased by marriage;


"spouse"
means a person who




(a)

is married to another person and is not living separate and apart,
within the meaning of the

Divorce Act

(Canada), from the other person, or




(b)

is living with another person in a marriage-like relationship for a
continuous period of at least one year immediately before the death of
the other person.




(2)

If an individual is deceased, an appropriate person may act for the
deceased in relation to any of the following sections of the Act:




(a)

section 5;




(b)

section 10 (1) (d);




(c)

section 26 (d);




(d)

section 27 (1) (a) (i);




(e)

section 29 (1);




(f)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 297/2021, Sch. 3, s. 1 (a).]




(g)

section 32 (b);




(h)

section 33 (2) (c).




(3)

If a nearest relative who is acting under this section ceases to be
willing or able to act, the right to act under subsection (2) of this
section passes to the person who is next in the definition of "nearest
relative" and who is willing and able to act.




(4)

If the right to act under subsection (2) of this section passes to
persons of equal rank in the listed order in the definition of
"nearest relative", the right passes to the person who is the eldest
of the persons and descends in order of age to the next person who is
willing and able to act.




(5)

A committee, or a guardian of a minor immediately before the minor's
death, may exercise a power granted under subsection (2) of this
section to the committee or the guardian only if the power is within
the scope of the duties or powers of the committee or the guardian.


[am. B.C. Regs. 64/2021, s. 8; 297/2021, Sch. 3, s. 1.]






Anthropological and heritage sites




6


For the purposes of section 18 of the Act,




(a)

a site has anthropological value if it contains an artifact or other
physical evidence of past habitation or use that has research value,
and




(b)

a site has heritage value if it is the location of a traditional
societal practice for a living community or it has historical,
cultural, aesthetic, educational, scientific or spiritual meaning or
value for the Province or for a community including an Indigenous
people.

[am. B.C. Reg. 297/2021, Sch. 3, s. 2.]





Disclosure relating to mental or physical health




7

(1)


The head of a public body may disclose information relating to the
mental or physical health of an individual to a health professional
for an opinion on whether disclosure of the information could
reasonably be expected to result in grave and immediate harm to the
individual's safety or mental or physical health.




(2)

A health professional to whom information is disclosed under
subsection (1) must not disclose or use the information except for the
purposes described in that subsection.




(3)

The head of a public body may require a health professional to whom
information is disclosed under this section to do either or both of
the following:




(a)

enter into a confidentiality agreement;




(b)

examine the record containing the information on the public body's
premises.




(4)

If a copy of a record containing information relating to the mental or
physical health of an individual is forwarded to a health professional
for examination, the health professional must return the record to the
head of the public body after giving the opinion.




(5)

The head of a public body may recommend that an applicant who makes a
request for access to a record containing information relating to the
applicant's mental or physical health should not examine the record
until a health professional or a member of the applicant's family is
present to assist the applicant in understanding the information in
the record.






Disclosure for audit purposes




8


A public body may, for audit purposes, disclose personal information
under section 33 (2) (s) of the Act to the ministry of the minister
responsible for the administration of the

Financial Administration Act

.

[am. B.C. Reg. 297/2021, Sch. 3, s. 3.]





Purposes for collection of personal information




9


For the purposes of section 26 (d) of the Act, personal information
may be collected for one or more of the following purposes:




(a)

to allow one or more




(i)

public bodies, and




(ii)

government institutions subject to the

Privacy Act

(Canada)


specified by the individual to record or update




(iii)

the individual's personal contact information, including the
individual's address, phone number and e-mail address, and




(iv)

the individual's name, if the individual has changed the individual's
name under the

Name Act

;




(b)

if the person is acting for a deceased individual under section 5 of
this regulation, to allow one or more




(i)

public bodies, and




(ii)

government institutions subject to the

Privacy Act

(Canada)


specified by the person to receive notification of the death in order
that benefits or services relating to the deceased may be provided or
cancelled, as applicable.

[am. B.C. Reg. 64/2021, s. 3.]





Consent respecting extending the time limit for responding to a
request




10


For the purposes of section 10 (1) (d) of the Act, consent must




(a)

be in writing, and




(b)

be done in a manner that specifies the period of time of the extension
for which the applicant is providing consent.






Consent respecting personal information




11

(1)


For the purposes of sections 26 (d), 32 (b) and 33 (2) (c) of the Act,
consent must




(a)

be in writing, and




(b)

be done in a manner that specifies




(i)

the personal information for which the individual is providing
consent, and




(ii)

the date on which the consent is effective and, if applicable, the
date on which the consent expires.




(2)

In addition to the requirements of subsection (1) of this section, for
the purposes of




(a)

section 26 (d) of the Act, consent must be done in a manner that
specifies




(i)

who may collect the personal information, and




(ii)

the purpose of the collection of the personal information,




(b)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 297/2021, Sch. 3, s. 4 (b).]




(c)

section 32 (b) of the Act, consent must be done in a manner that
specifies the use of the personal information, and




(d)

section 33 (2) (c) of the Act, consent must be done in a manner that
specifies




(i)

to whom the personal information may be disclosed,




(ii)

if practicable, the jurisdiction to which the personal information may
be disclosed, and




(iii)

the purpose of the disclosure of the personal information.




(3)

Subject to subsection (4), a consent under section 33.1 (1) (b) of the
Act, as that section read on June 25, 2012, that was given
before the date this regulation comes into force, and is still
effective on the date this regulation comes into force, continues to
be effective in accordance with its terms.




(4)

Unless a consent described in subsection (3) complies with the
requirements set out in subsections (1) and (2) (d) within one year
after the date this regulation comes into force, the consent ceases to
be effective on the date that is one year after the date this
regulation comes into force.

[am. B.C. Reg. 297/2021, Sch. 3, s. 4.]





Privacy breach notifications — affected individuals




11.1

(1)


A notification under section 36.3 (2) (a) of the Act must




(a)

subject to subsection (2) of this section, be given directly to each
affected individual in writing, and




(b)

include the following information:




(i)

the name of the public body;




(ii)

the date on which the privacy breach came to the attention of the
public body;




(iii)

a description of the privacy breach including, if known,




(A)

the date on which or the period during which the privacy breach
occurred, and




(B)

a description of the nature of the personal information involved in
the privacy breach;




(iv)

confirmation that the commissioner has been or will be notified of the
privacy breach;




(v)

contact information for a person who can answer, on behalf of the
public body, questions about the privacy breach;




(vi)

a description of steps, if any, that the public body has taken or will
take to reduce the risk of harm to the affected individual;




(vii)

a description of steps, if any, that the affected individual could
take to reduce the risk of harm that could result from the privacy
breach.




(2)

A notification may be given to an affected individual in an indirect
manner if




(a)

the public body does not have accurate contact information for the
affected individual,




(b)

the head of the public body reasonably believes that providing the
notice directly to the affected individual would unreasonably
interfere with the operations of the public body, or




(c)

the head of the public body reasonably believes that the information
in the notification will come to the attention of the affected
individual more quickly if it is given in an indirect manner.




(3)

If, under subsection (2), a notification may be given in an indirect
manner, the notification must




(a)

be given by public communication that can reasonably be expected to
reach the affected individual, and




(b)

contain the information set out in subsection (1) (b).

[en. B.C. Reg. 248/2022, Sch.]





Privacy breach notifications — commissioner




11.2


A notification under section 36.3 (2) (b) of the Act must be given to
the commissioner in writing and must include the following
information:




(a)

the name of the public body;




(b)

the date on which the privacy breach came to the attention of the
public body;




(c)

a description of the privacy breach including, if known,




(i)

the date on which or the period during which the privacy breach
occurred,




(ii)

a description of the nature of the personal information involved in
the privacy breach, and




(iii)

an estimate of the number of affected individuals;




(d)

contact information for a person who can answer, on behalf of the
public body, questions about the privacy breach;




(e)

a description of steps, if any, that the public body has taken or will
take to reduce the risk of harm to the affected individuals.

[en. B.C. Reg. 248/2022, Sch.]





Common or integrated program or activity — written documentation




12


The written documentation that confirms that a program or activity is
a common or integrated program or activity is




(a)

a written agreement that




(i)

is signed by the head of each public body and agency through which, or
on whose behalf, as applicable, the services of the program or
activity are provided, and




(ii)

includes the following information:




(A)

a description of the services provided by the program or activity;




(B)

a description of the types of personal information collected, used and
disclosed in the course of providing the program or activity;




(C)

a description of the purposes, key objectives and expected benefits or
outcomes of the program or activity;




(D)

a description of the respective roles and responsibilities of each
public body and agency through which, or on whose behalf, the services
are provided;




(E)

the date on which the program or activity will start and, if
applicable, the date on which the program or activity will end, or




(b)

an order of the minister responsible for this Act that




(i)

states that a program or activity, which provides one or more services
through one ministry working on behalf of one or more other public
bodies or agencies, is a common or integrated program or activity, and




(ii)

includes, with respect to the program or activity, the information set
out in paragraph (a) (ii).

[en. B.C. Reg. 175/2015, s. 1.]





Fees




13

(1)


The maximum fees for services provided to different categories of
applicants are set out in Schedule 1 of this regulation.




(2)

The application fee under section 75 (1) (a) of the Act is $10.

[am. B.C. Reg. 298/2021.]





Form respecting notice of disclosure




14


The form prescribed for the purposes of section 25 (4) of the Act is
set out in Schedule 2 of this regulation.






Repealed




15


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 297/2021, Sch. 3, s. 5.]




Schedule 1


Schedule of Maximum Fees





Item


COLUMN 1


COLUMN 2




Description of Services


Management Fees





1

For applicants other than commercial applicants:



(a) for locating and retrieving a record
$7.50 per 1/4 hour after the first 3 hours


(b) for producing a record manually
$7.50 per 1/4 hour



(c) for producing a record from a machine readable record from a
server or computer


$7.50 per 1/4 hour for developing a computer program to produce
the record




(d) for preparing a record for disclosure and handling a record

$7.50 per 1/4 hour


(e) for shipping copies

actual costs of shipping method chosen by applicant




(f) for copying records

(i) floppy disks

$2 per disk


(ii) CDs and DVDs, recordable or rewritable
$4 per disk


(iii) computer tapes
$40 per tape, up to 2 400 feet


(iv) microfiche
$3 per fiche


(v) microfilm duplication

$25 per roll for 16 mm microfilm,

$40 per roll for 35 mm microfilm




(vi) microfiche or microfilm to paper duplication

$0.50 per page (8.5" x 11")



(vii) photographs, colour or black and white

$5 to produce a negative


$12 each for 16" x 20" photograph


$9 each for 11" x 14" photograph


$4 each for 8" x 10" photograph


$3 each for 5" x 7" photograph



(viii) photographic print of textual, graphic or cartographic
record, black and white

$12.50 each (8" x 10")



(ix) dot matrix, ink jet, laser print or photocopy, black and
white


$0.25 per page (8.5" x 11", 8.5" x 14" or 11" x 17")




(x) dot matrix, ink jet, laser print or photocopy, colour


$1.65 per page (8.5" x 11", 8.5" x 14" or 11" x 17")



(xi) scanned electronic copy of a paper record
$0.10 per page



(xii) photomechanical reproduction of 105 mm cartographic
record/plan

$3 each


(xiii) slide duplication
$0.95 each



(xiv) audio cassette tape (90 minutes or fewer) duplication


$5 per cassette plus $7 per 1/4 hour of recording




(xv) video cassette recorder (VHS) tape (120 minutes or fewer)
duplication


$5 per cassette plus $7 per 1/4 hour of recording



2

For commercial applicants for each service listed in Item 1


the actual cost to the public body of providing that service






Schedule 2


Prescribed Form under Section 25 (4) of the Act


.......................................................................................................
[name of public body]
has disclosed information that relates to you in compliance with the
requirements of section 25 of the
Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act
("Act") which requires a public body to disclose, without delay,
information


(a) about a risk of significant harm to the environment or to the health
or safety of the public or a group of people, or


(b) the disclosure of which is, for any other reason, clearly in the
public interest.


The information disclosed is .............................
[describe the information]
............................ .


The information was disclosed ...............................
[describe when and how the information was disclosed]
............................... .


The information was disclosed to

[tick the appropriate box and provide the information in the brackets
unless doing so could reasonably be expected to threaten, or result in
immediate and grave harm to the safety or mental or physical health of
a person under section 19 of the Act, or unreasonably invade the
personal privacy of a third party under section 22 of the Act]




the public.



an affected group
[describe the affected group]
.



an applicant
[identify the applicant]
.


The reason for disclosure of the information is
.............................
[explain the reason for which the information was disclosed]
............................. .


The decision to disclose this information was made by
.............................
[name, job title]
............................. .


Should you have any questions about the disclosure of this information,
please contact .............................
[name, job title, contact information]
............................. .


Signed
...............................................................................
[name, job title]



Schedule 3

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 297/2021, Sch. 3, s. 5.]

[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 165, ss. 10 (1), 25 (4), 26, 32, 33.1 (1), 33.2 and
76 (1), (2) and (2.1).]



