







B.C. Reg. 582/2004

O.C. 1246/2004


Deposited December 13, 2004






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Forest and Range Practices Act


Government Actions Regulation


[Last amended December 11, 2023 by B.C. Reg. 281/2023]






Interpretation




1

(1)


In this regulation
"Act"
means the

Forest and Range Practices Act

.




(2)

Words and expressions not defined in this regulation have the meanings
given to them in section 1 of the Forest Planning and Practices
Regulation unless the context indicates otherwise.




(3)

This regulation applies despite section 16 (2) of the Act.






Limitation on actions




2

(1)


In addition to the criteria and procedures to be followed by a
minister in making an order under any of sections 5 to 15 in relation
to an area specified in the order, the minister must be satisfied that




(a)

the order is consistent with established objectives, and




(b)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 281/2023.]




(c)

the benefits to the public derived from the order would outweigh any




(i)

material adverse impact of the order on the delivered wood costs of a
holder of an agreement under the

Forest Act

that would be affected by the order, and




(ii)

undue constraint on the ability of a holder of an agreement under the

Forest Act

or the

Range Act

that would be affected by the order to exercise the holder's rights
under the agreement.




(2)

An order under any of sections 5 to 15 does not apply in respect of




(a)

any of the following entered into before the order takes effect:




(i)

a cutting permit;




(ii)

a road permit;




(iii)

a timber sale licence that does not provide for cutting permits;




(iv)

a forestry licence to cut issued by a timber sales manager under
section 47.6 (3) of the

Forest Act

;




(v)

subject to subsection (3), a minor tenure,




(b)

a declared area,




(c)

areas described in section 196 (1) of the Act, and




(d)

areas referred to in section 110 of the Forest Planning and Practices
Regulation.




(3)

A minister who makes an order under any of sections 5 to 15




(a)

may specify in the order that it applies to a minor tenure entered
into before the order, and




(b)

may specify an effective date for the order that is later than the
date of publication, under section 4 (2) (b), of the
notice in the Gazette.

[am. B.C. Regs. 34/2018, s. 1; 281/2023.]





Consultations and reviews




3

(1)


Before a minister makes an order under any of sections 5 to 15, the
minister must provide an opportunity for review and comment,




(a)

in the case of an order under section 13 establishing a species
category, to organizations that the minister considers representative
of holders of agreements under the

Forest Act

or the

Range Act

that may be affected by the order, or




(b)

in the case of any other order, to the holders of agreements under the

Forest Act

or the

Range Act

that will be affected by the order.




(2)

A minister before making an order under any of sections 5 to 12, 14 or
15 must consult holders referred to in
section 2 (1) (c) on whom the order may have a material
adverse effect.






Notice of an order under this regulation




4

(1)


Notice must be given in accordance with this section of an order made
under any of sections 5 to 15.




(2)

The notice required under subsection (1) is sufficiently given if the
notice includes a copy of the order or contains particulars or a
summary of the order and is




(a)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 34/2018, s. 2 (a).]




(b)

published in the Gazette, and




(c)

made publicly available at the regional office of the forest region to
which the order relates.




(3)

An order made under any of sections 5 to 15 takes effect




(a)

on the effective date specified under section 2 (3) (b), or




(b)

if no effective date is specified under section 2 (3) (b), on the date
notice is published under subsection (2) (b) of this
section.

[am. B.C. Reg. 34/2018, s. 2.]





Resource features




5

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), the minister responsible for the

Forest Act

by order may identify one or more of the following as resource
features in relation to a specified area:




(a)

a surface or subsurface element of a karst system;




(b)

a range development;




(c)

Crown land used for research or experimental purposes;




(d)

a permanent sample site used as a snow course by or on behalf of the
federal or Provincial government for the purpose of measuring the
water content of the snow pack on a given area;




(e)

a cultural heritage resource that is the focus of a traditional use by
an aboriginal people and that is not regulated by the

Heritage Conservation Act

;




(f)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 163/2023, Sch. 3, s. 1.]




(g)

a trail or other recreation facility referred to in section 57 of the
Act that is authorized by the minister or under another enactment;




(h)

a recreation feature that the minister considers to be of significant
recreational value.




(2)

The minister responsible for the

Forest Act

may make an order under subsection (1) if the minister is satisfied
that the resource feature requires special management not otherwise
provided for under this regulation or another enactment.




(3)

The identification of a resource feature under subsection (1)




(a)

may be by category or type, and may be restricted to a specified
geographic location, and




(b)

must be sufficiently specific to enable a person affected by it to
identify the resource feature in the ordinary course of carrying out
forest practices or range practices.




(4)

Despite subsections (1) to (3), if the minister responsible for the

Forest Act

reasonably believes that a resource feature may be subject to damage
or disturbance if the location of the resource feature is disclosed,
that minister




(a)

must not disclose the location of the feature in the order,




(b)

must provide written notice of the location of the feature to the
holders of agreements under the

Forest Act

or the

Range Act

that will be affected by the order, and




(c)

may attach conditions to the order




(i)

prohibiting those holders from disclosing the location of the feature,
or




(ii)

restricting the extent to which, or the persons to whom, those holders
may disclose the location of the feature.




(5)

A person to whom a condition referred to in subsection (4) (c) applies
must comply with the condition.


[am. B.C. Regs. 64/2021, s. 2; 163/2023, Sch. 3, s. 1.]






Lakeshore management zones and objectives




6

(1)


The minister responsible for the

Forest Act

by order may




(a)

establish as a lakeshore management zone an area adjacent to a lake
with a riparian class of L1, and




(b)

specify a width for the lakeshore management zone


if satisfied that the forest resources within the area require special
management that has not otherwise been provided for by this regulation
or another enactment.




(2)

The minister responsible for the

Forest Act

by order may establish for a lakeshore management zone objectives that
are consistent with subsection (1).






Scenic areas and visual quality objectives




7

(1)


The minister responsible for the

Land Act

by order may establish an area as a scenic area if satisfied that the
area




(a)

is visually important based on its physical characteristics and public
use, and




(b)

requires special management that has not otherwise been provided for
by this regulation or another enactment.




(2)

The minister responsible for the

Forest Act

by order may establish for a scenic area visual quality objectives
that are consistent with subsection (1) and are within the categories
of altered forest landscape prescribed under section 1.1 of the
Forest Planning and Practices Regulation.






Community watersheds and water quality objectives




8

(1)


The minister responsible for the

Land Act

by order may designate as a community watershed all or part of the
drainage area that is upslope of the lowest point from which water is
diverted for human consumption by a licensed waterworks, if satisfied
that, to protect the water that is diverted for human consumption, the
area requires special management, that is not otherwise provided for
under this regulation or another enactment,




(a)

to conserve the quality, quantity and timing of water flow, or




(b)

to prevent cumulative hydrological effects that would have a material
adverse effect on the water.




(2)

The minister responsible for the

Wildlife Act

by order may establish for a community watershed water quality
objectives respecting a matter referred to in subsection (1).






General wildlife measures




9

(1)


The minister responsible for the

Wildlife Act

by order may establish a general wildlife measure, to be applied to a
specified area, for a category of species at risk, regionally
important wildlife or specified ungulate species, if satisfied that




(a)

the measure is necessary to protect or conserve the species in the
category in the area to which the measure relates, and




(b)

this regulation or another enactment does not otherwise provide for
that protection or conservation.




(2)

The minister responsible for the

Wildlife Act

by order may establish a general wildlife measure for a wildlife
habitat area or an ungulate winter range if satisfied that




(a)

the measure is necessary to protect or conserve the wildlife habitat
area or ungulate winter range, and




(b)

this regulation or another enactment does not otherwise provide for
that protection or conservation.






General ecological community measures




9.1


The minister responsible for the

Wildlife Act

by order may establish a general measure in relation to ecological
communities, to be applied to a specified area, for a category of
ecological community at risk if satisfied that




(a)

the measure is necessary to protect or conserve the ecological
community in the category in the area to which the measure relates,
and




(b)

this regulation or another enactment does not otherwise provide for
that protection or conservation.

[en. B.C. Reg. 163/2023, Sch. 3, s. 2.]





Wildlife habitat areas and objectives




10

(1)


The minister responsible for the

Wildlife Act

by order may establish an area as a wildlife habitat area if satisfied
that the area is necessary to meet the habitat requirements of a
category of species at risk or regionally important wildlife.




(2)

The minister responsible for the

Wildlife Act

by order may establish a wildlife habitat area objective for a
wildlife habitat area if satisfied that the wildlife habitat area
requires special management that has not otherwise been provided for
under this regulation or another enactment.




(3)

Despite subsections (1) and (2), if the minister responsible for the

Wildlife Act

reasonably believes that a wildlife habitat area is sensitive to
damage or disturbance, that minister




(a)

must not disclose the location of the wildlife habitat area in the
order,




(b)

must provide written notice of the location of the wildlife habitat
area to the holders of agreements under the

Forest Act

or the

Range Act

that will be affected by the order, and




(c)

may attach conditions to the order




(i)

prohibiting those holders from disclosing the location of the wildlife
habitat area, or




(ii)

restricting the extent to which, or the persons to whom, those holders
may disclose the location of the wildlife habitat area.




(4)

A person to whom a condition referred to in subsection (3) (c) applies
must comply with the condition.

[am. B.C. Reg. 64/2021, s. 2.]





Wildlife habitat features




11

(1)


The minister responsible for the

Wildlife Act

by order may identify any or all of the following as a wildlife
habitat feature:




(a)

a fisheries sensitive feature;




(b)

a marine sensitive feature;




(c)

a significant mineral lick or wallow;




(d)

a nest of




(i)

a bald eagle,




(ii)

an osprey,




(iii)

a great blue heron, or




(iv)

a category of species at risk that is limited to birds;




(e)

any other localized feature that the minister responsible for the

Wildlife Act

considers to be a wildlife habitat feature;


if satisfied that the wildlife habitat feature requires special
management that has not otherwise been provided for under this
regulation or another enactment.




(2)

Identification of a wildlife habitat feature under subsection (1)




(a)

may be by category or type, and may be restricted to a specified
geographic location, and




(b)

must be sufficiently specific to enable a person affected by it to
identify the wildlife habitat feature in the ordinary course of
carrying out forest practices or range practices.




(3)

Despite subsections (1) and (2), if the minister responsible for the

Wildlife Act

reasonably believes that a wildlife habitat feature is sensitive to
damage or disturbance, that minister




(a)

must not disclose the location of the feature in the order,




(b)

must provide written notice of the location of the feature to the
holders of agreements under the

Forest Act

or the

Range Act

that will be affected by the order, and




(c)

may attach conditions to the order




(i)

prohibiting those holders from disclosing the location of the feature,
or




(ii)

restricting the extent to which, or the persons to whom, those holders
may disclose the location of the feature.




(4)

A person to whom a condition referred to in subsection (3) (c) applies
must comply with the condition.

[am. B.C. Reg. 64/2021, s. 2.]





Ungulate winter ranges and objectives




12

(1)


The minister responsible for the

Wildlife Act

by order may establish an area as an ungulate winter range if
satisfied that




(a)

the area contains habitat that is necessary to meet the winter habitat
requirements for a category of specified ungulate species, and




(b)

the habitat referred to in paragraph (a) requires special management
that is not otherwise provided for under this regulation or another
enactment.




(2)

The minister responsible for the

Wildlife Act

by order may establish an ungulate winter range objective for an
ungulate winter range if satisfied that the ungulate winter range
requires special management that is not otherwise provided for under
this regulation or another enactment.






Species at risk, regionally important wildlife and ungulate species




13

(1)


The minister responsible for the

Wildlife Act

by order may establish one or more categories identifying species of
wildlife as species at risk if satisfied that the species are
endangered, threatened or vulnerable.




(2)

The minister responsible for the

Wildlife Act

by order may establish one or more categories identifying species of
wildlife as regionally important wildlife if satisfied that the
species




(a)

are important to a region of British Columbia,




(b)

rely on habitat that requires special management that is not otherwise
provided for in this regulation or another enactment, and




(c)

may be adversely impacted by forest practices or range practices.




(3)

The minister responsible for the

Wildlife Act

by order may establish one or more categories identifying ungulate
species for which an ungulate winter range is required if satisfied
that the range is necessary for the winter survival of the identified
species.






Ecological communities and objectives




13.1

(1)


The minister responsible for the

Wildlife Act

by order may establish one or more categories identifying ecological
communities at risk if satisfied that the ecological communities are
endangered, threatened or vulnerable.




(2)

The minister responsible for the

Wildlife Act

by order may establish one or more categories identifying ecological
communities as regionally important if satisfied that the communities




(a)

are important to a region of British Columbia,




(b)

provide habitat that requires special management that is not otherwise
provided for in this regulation or another enactment, and




(c)

may be adversely impacted by forest practices or range practices.

[en. B.C. Reg. 163/2023, Sch. 3, s. 2.]





Fisheries sensitive watersheds and objectives




14

(1)


The minister responsible for the

Wildlife Act

by order may identify as a fisheries sensitive watershed an area of
land in a watershed that has significant downstream fisheries values
and significant watershed sensitivity if satisfied that the area
requires special management to protect fish, that is not otherwise
provided for under this regulation or another enactment, by




(a)

conserving




(i)

the natural hydrological conditions, natural stream bed dynamics and
stream channel integrity, and




(ii)

the quality, quantity and timing of water flow, or




(b)

preventing cumulative hydrological effects that would have a material
adverse effect on fish.




(2)

The minister responsible for the

Wildlife Act

by order may establish a fisheries sensitive watershed objective
respecting a matter referred to in subsection (1).






Temperature sensitive streams




15


The minister responsible for the

Wildlife Act

by order may designate a portion of a fish stream as a temperature
sensitive stream if satisfied that




(a)

trees are required adjacent to the stream to manage the temperature of
the designated portion for the protection of fish, and




(b)

management of the temperature of the designated portion is not
otherwise provided for under this regulation or another enactment.




Transition





Community watershed continued




16


A community watershed is continued as a community watershed under this
regulation if the community watershed was




(a)

established after January 31, 2004 under section 41 (8) to (13) of the

Forest Practices Code of British Columbia Act

, as it was immediately before its repeal, and




(b)

in existence on the coming into force of this section.






Visual quality class continued




17


A visual quality class for a scenic area is continued under this
regulation as a visual quality objective if




(a)

the visual quality class has been




(i)

set out before October 24, 2002 in a letter from the district manager
to the holder of an agreement under the

Forest Act

, or




(ii)

included in the most recent tree farm licence visual landscape
inventory prepared by the holder of a tree farm licence and approved
by the regional manager, and




(b)

in existence on the coming into force of this section.






Categories of landscape modification apply to continued visual quality
objectives




18


The categories of altered forest landscape prescribed in section 1.1
of the Forest Planning and Practices Regulation apply to visual
quality objectives continued under section 181 of the Act or under
section 17 of this regulation.






Resource features continued




19

(1)


A resource feature as defined in section 1 (2) of the Operational and
Site Planning Regulation, B.C. Reg. 107/98, as that
regulation was immediately before its repeal, is continued as a
resource feature identified under section 5 of this regulation in
relation to a specified area if information about the resource feature
was




(a)

contained in a higher level plan that is applicable to the area and is
still in effect, or




(b)

made available, in accordance with paragraph (b) of the definition of
"known" in section 1 (1) of the Operational and Site
Planning Regulation, to one or more holders of




(i)

agreements under the

Forest Act

or

Range Act

, or




(ii)

agreements entered into under the

Forest Act

or

Range Act

, in replacement for agreements referred to in subparagraph (i),
and


in effect on the coming into force of this section.




(2)

A resource feature as defined in section 1 (1) of the Woodlot Licence
Forest Management Regulation, B.C. Reg. 325/98, as that regulation was
immediately before its repeal is continued as a resource feature
identified under section 5 of this regulation in relation to a
specified area if information about the resource feature was




(a)

contained in a higher level plan that is applicable to the area and is
in effect on the coming into force of this section, or




(b)

made available, in accordance with paragraph (b) of the definition of
"known" in section 1 (1) of the Woodlot Licence Forest
Management Regulation, to one or more holders of




(i)

woodlot licences under the

Forest Act

, or




(ii)

woodlot licences entered into under the

Forest Act

in replacement for licences referred to in subparagraph (i), and


in effect on the coming into force of this section.






Orders apply to Code and Code regulations




20


An order under any of sections 5 to 15 in relation to an area
specified in the order applies in respect of the holder of an
agreement under the

Forest Act

or

Range Act

who, under Part 11 of the

Forest and Range Practices Act

, must comply with the requirements of the Code and Code regulations
that pertain to the area.



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Forest and Range Practices Act

, S.B.C. 2002, c. 69, ss. 141, 147, 149, 149.1, 150, 150.1 to 150.5 and
154.]



