







B.C. Reg. 223/2015

O.C. 742/2015


Deposited December 3, 2015

effective January 18, 2016





This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Guide Dog and Service Dog Act


Guide Dog and Service Dog Regulation

[Last amended June 26, 2023 by B.C. Reg. 164/2023]





Definitions




1


In this regulation:



"accredited or recognized training school"

means an organization that provides training programs respecting guide
dogs or service dogs and is accredited by one or both of the following
organizations:




(a)

Assistance Dogs International;




(b)

International Guide Dog Federation;


"Act"
means the

Guide Dog and Service Dog Act

;



"approved assessment organization"

means an organization that is approved in writing by the registrar for
the purpose of carrying out BC guide dog and service dog assessments;



"BC guide dog and service dog assessment"

means a BC guide dog and service dog assessment that is approved by
the registrar and administered by an approved assessment organization;



"dog trainer certificate"

means a certificate referred to in section 5 (1) (c) of the Act;



"guide dog team certificate"

means a certificate referred to in section 5 (1) (a) of the Act;



"identification card"

means a card, letter or other form of record that meets the applicable
requirements of section 1.1;


"photograph"
means a photograph that meets the applicable requirements of section
1.2;



"retired guide or service dog team certificate"

means a certificate referred to in section 5 (1) (e) of the Act;



"service dog team certificate"

means a certificate referred to in section 5 (1) (b) of the Act.


[am. B.C. Regs. 188/2021, Sch., s. 1; 164/2023, s. 1.]






Requirements for identification cards




1.1

(1)


If an applicant is required under this regulation to provide an
identification card, the applicant must provide a card, letter or
other form of record that




(a)

is issued by an accredited or recognized training school,




(b)

identifies an individual and a dog,




(c)

confirms that the individual and the dog have together successfully
completed a guide dog or service dog training program, whether through
the school or another accredited or recognized training school, and




(d)

has an expiry date that is after the date of the application.




(2)

Despite subsection (1) (d), if the card, letter or record does not
have an expiry date or has expired, the applicant may provide to the
registrar a card, letter or other form of record that




(a)

meets the requirements of subsection (1) (a), (b) and (c), and




(b)

confirms that, as of the date of the applicant's application, the
individual and the dog have active status as a working team.

[en. B.C. Reg. 188/2021, Sch., s. 2.]





Requirements for photographs




1.2

(1)


If an applicant is required under this regulation to provide an
official photograph, the applicant must provide a copy of an
identification record that




(a)

was issued by the government of Canada or of a province of Canada,




(b)

includes an image of the individual to whom the record was issued, and




(c)

is in a form satisfactory to the registrar.




(2)

Despite subsection (1) (a),




(a)

the registrar may permit an identification record that was issued by
the government of a country other than Canada, or of a state, province
or other territory of a country other than Canada, and




(b)

for the purposes of determining whether to give permission under
paragraph (a), the registrar may require one or both of the following:




(i)

that the record be translated into English;




(ii)

that the record or the record's translation be certified as a true
copy by a lawyer, or by a notary who is a member in good standing
under the

Notaries Act

.




(3)

Despite subsection (1) and any provision of this regulation that
requires an applicant to submit an official photograph, the registrar
may permit an applicant to provide a copy of an identification record
that does not meet one or more of the requirements of subsection (1)
instead of an official photograph if the registrar is satisfied that
the record




(a)

is issued by




(i)

a public body within the meaning of the

Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act

or a similar body of another jurisdiction, or




(ii)

a bank, a financial institution within the meaning of the

Financial Institutions Act

or a similar body in another jurisdiction, and




(b)

identifies an individual by means of a unique number, code or other
type of identifier.




(4)

If an applicant is required under this regulation to provide an
unofficial photograph, the applicant must provide a photograph that is
of a size and quality, and is in a form, satisfactory to the
registrar.

[en. B.C. Reg. 188/2021, Sch., s. 2.]



Part 1 â€” Issuance and Renewal of Certificates





Issuance of team certificate if accredited or recognized training




2

(1)


This section applies to an individual and a dog if




(a)

the certificate to be issued to the individual and the dog is not a
new certificate for the purposes of section 12 (2) (b) of the Act, and




(b)

the individual and the dog to be issued a certificate under this
section




(i)

are deemed to be certified under section 6.1 of the Act, or




(ii)

have together successfully completed a guide dog or service dog
training program, as the case may be, provided by an accredited or
recognized training school.




(2)

The registrar must not issue a guide dog team certificate or a service
dog team certificate unless




(a)

the individual and the dog that will be identified in the certificate
have together successfully completed a guide dog or service dog
training program provided by an accredited or recognized training
school, and




(b)

the dog has been spayed or neutered.




(3)

An application for the issuance of a guide dog team certificate or a
service dog team certificate must include or be accompanied by




(a)

both an official and an unofficial photograph of the individual who
will be identified in the certificate, and




(b)

a copy of the identification card of the individual and the dog that
will be identified in the certificate.

[en. B.C. Reg. 188/2021, Sch., s. 3.]





Issuance of team certificate if training not accredited or recognized




3

(1)


This section applies to an individual and a dog if




(a)

the certificate to be issued to the individual and the dog is not a
new certificate for the purposes of section 12 (2) (b) of the Act, and




(b)

the individual and the dog to be issued a certificate under this
section have not together successfully completed a guide dog or
service dog training program, as the case may be, provided by an
accredited or recognized training school.




(2)

The registrar must not issue a guide dog team certificate or a service
dog team certificate unless




(a)

subject to subsection (3), the individual and the dog that will be
identified in the certificate have together successfully completed a
BC guide dog and service dog assessment,




(b)

the registrar receives written confirmation from an approved
assessment organization that the requirements described in paragraph
(a) and subsection (3) have been met, and




(c)

the dog has been spayed or neutered.




(3)

The assessment referred to in subsection (2) (a) must be completed not
more than 90 days after the date the registrar receives the
application for issuance of the certificate.




(4)

An application for the issuance of a guide dog team certificate or a
service dog team certificate must include or be accompanied by




(a)

both an official and an unofficial photograph of the individual who
will be identified in the certificate, and




(b)

written confirmation from




(i)

a medical practitioner or nurse practitioner that the individual is a
blind person or a person with a disability, as the case may be, and




(ii)

a veterinarian that the dog has been spayed or neutered.




(5)

In subsection (4) (b) (i):



"medical practitioner"

includes an individual who the registrar is satisfied is authorized,
under an enactment of a jurisdiction of Canada other than British
Columbia or a jurisdiction of the United States of America, to
practise medicine in a capacity that is at least equivalent to that of
a medical practitioner in British Columbia;



"nurse practitioner"

includes an individual who the registrar is satisfied is authorized,
under an enactment of a jurisdiction of Canada other than British
Columbia or a jurisdiction of the United States of America, to
practise nursing in a capacity that is at least equivalent to that of
a nurse practitioner in British Columbia.




(6)

In subsection (4) (b) (ii),
"veterinarian"
means either of the following:




(a)

an individual who




(i)

is authorized under the

Veterinarians Act

to practise veterinary medicine, and




(ii)

is actively practising veterinary medicine at an accredited practice
facility, being




(A)

the location, premises, structure or vehicle from which a person
registered under the

Veterinarians Act

provides veterinary medicine services, including any equipment,
supplies, records or documentation used in that facility, and




(B)

that is accredited by the College of Veterinarians of British
Columbia;




(b)

an individual who the registrar is satisfied is




(i)

authorized, under an enactment of a jurisdiction of Canada other than
British Columbia or a jurisdiction of the United States of America, to
practise veterinary medicine in a capacity that is at least equivalent
to that of an individual authorized under the

Veterinarians Act

to practise veterinary medicine, and




(ii)

actively practising veterinary medicine in a facility that is at least
equivalent to an accredited practice facility referred to in paragraph
(a) (ii).


[en. B.C. Reg. 188/2021, Sch., s. 3; am. B.C. Reg. 164/2023, s. 2.]






Renewal of team certificate




4

(1)


The registrar must not renew a guide dog team certificate or a service
dog team certificate unless the individual and the dog that will be
identified in the certificate meet the requirements of subsection (2)
or (3).




(2)

An individual and a dog that have together successfully completed a
guide dog or service dog training program provided by an accredited or
recognized training school must include with the application, or the
application must be accompanied by, both of the following:




(a)

an unofficial photograph of the individual who will be identified in
the certificate;




(b)

a copy of the individual's identification card.




(3)

An individual and a dog that have not together successfully completed
a guide dog or service dog training program, as the case may be,
provided by an accredited or recognized training school must meet the
following requirements:




(a)

the individual and the dog must have together successfully completed a
BC guide dog and service dog assessment not more than 90 days after
the date the registrar receives the application for renewal of the
certificate;




(b)

the application must include or be accompanied by an unofficial
photograph of the individual who will be identified in the
certificate;




(c)

the registrar must receive written confirmation from an approved
assessment organization that the requirements described in paragraph
(a) have been met.


[en. B.C. Reg. 188/2021, Sch., s. 3; am. B.C. Reg. 164/2023, s. 2.]






Dog trainer certificate




5

(1)


The registrar must not issue or renew a dog trainer certificate unless
the individual who will be identified in the certificate trains dogs
on behalf of an accredited or recognized training school for the
purpose of the dogs becoming guide dogs or service dogs.




(2)

An application for the issuance of a dog trainer certificate must
include or be accompanied by




(a)

both an official and an unofficial photograph of the individual who
will be identified in the certificate, and




(b)

written confirmation, in a form satisfactory to the registrar, from
the accredited or recognized training school referred to in subsection
(1) that the individual meets the requirement described in that
subsection.




(3)

An application for the renewal of a dog trainer certificate must
include or be accompanied by




(a)

an unofficial photograph of the individual who will be identified in
the certificate, and




(b)

written confirmation, in a form satisfactory to the registrar, from
the accredited or recognized training school referred to in subsection
(1) that the individual continues to meet the requirement described in
that subsection.

[en. B.C. Reg. 188/2021, Sch., s. 3.]





Retired team certificate




6

(1)


An application for the issuance of a retired guide or service dog team
certificate, in respect of an individual and a dog, must include or be
accompanied by all of the following:




(a)

both an official and an unofficial photograph of the individual who
will be identified in the certificate;




(b)

either




(i)

the guide dog team certificate or service dog team certificate issued
previously in respect of the individual and the dog, or




(ii)

a copy of the individual's identification card.




(2)

Despite section 1.1 (1) (d), that provision does not apply for the
purposes of the identification card required under subsection (1) (b)
(ii) of this section.




(3)

An application for the renewal of a retired guide or service dog team
certificate, in respect of an individual and a dog, must include or be
accompanied by an unofficial photograph of the individual who will be
identified in the certificate.

[en. B.C. Reg. 188/2021, Sch., s. 3.]



Part 2 â€” Terms and Conditions of Certificates





Contact information




7


It is a term and condition of every certificate that the holder of the
certificate must, within 30 days after the occurrence, report to the
registrar a change in the holder's name or mailing address.






Guide dog team and service dog team certificates




8

(1)


It is a term and condition of every guide dog team certificate and
service dog team certificate issued or renewed under section 6 of the
Act that the holder of the certificate must, within 30 days after the
occurrence, report the occurrence of the following to the registrar:




(a)

the dog identified in the certificate retires, dies or becomes
permanently disabled;




(b)

the individual or the dog identified in the certificate ceases to meet
any of the conditions, qualifications or requirements imposed under
the Act or this regulation;




(c)

in the case of a guide dog team certificate, the holder of the
certificate does not require the assistance of a guide dog or the dog
identified in the certificate is not able to perform the functions of
a guide dog;




(d)

in the case of a service dog team certificate, the holder of the
certificate does not require the assistance of a service dog or the
dog identified in the certificate is not able to perform the functions
of a service dog.




(2)

It is a term and condition of every guide dog team certificate and
service dog team certificate issued or renewed under section 6 of the
Act that, if required by the registrar on written notice to the holder
of the certificate, the individual and the dog identified in the
certificate must, within the time specified by the registrar, together
successfully complete either




(a)

an assessment administered by an accredited or recognized training
school, or




(b)

a BC guide dog and service dog assessment.

[am. B.C. Reg. 188/2021, Sch., s. 4.]





Dog trainer certificates




9


It is a term and condition of every dog trainer certificate issued or
renewed under section 6 of the Act that the holder of the certificate
must, within 30 days after the occurrence, report to the registrar
that the holder of the dog trainer certificate no longer trains dogs
on behalf of the accredited or recognized training school referred to
in the application for issuance of the certificate.

[am. B.C. Reg. 188/2021, Sch., s. 4.]





Repealed




10


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 188/2021, Sch., s. 5.]






Retired guide or service dog team certificates




11


It is a term and condition of every retired guide or service dog team
certificate issued or renewed under section 6 of the Act that the
holder of the certificate must, within 30 days after the occurrence,
report to the registrar that the dog identified in the certificate has
died or no longer resides with the holder of the certificate.




Part 3 â€” Cancellation of or Refusal to Renew Certificates





Cancellation or refusal to renew




12

(1)


The registrar may cancel or refuse to renew a guide dog team
certificate or a service dog team certificate if the registrar is
satisfied that the dog identified in the certificate acted or behaved,
during the exercise of the right of entry and use specified in section
2 (1) of the Act, in a manner that threatened the safety of a person
or another animal.




(2)

The registrar may cancel a dog trainer certificate if the registrar is
satisfied that the holder of the dog trainer certificate no longer
trains dogs on behalf of the accredited or recognized training school
referred to in the application for issuance of the certificate.




(3)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 188/2021, Sch., s. 6 (c).]




(4)

The registrar may cancel or refuse to renew a certificate if the
registrar is satisfied that false or misleading information was
provided to the registrar in support of the issuance of the
certificate.

[am. B.C. Reg. 188/2021, Sch., s. 6.]





Notice




13

(1)


Before cancelling a certificate under section 12 of this regulation or
sectionÂ 7Â (1) (a) (i) or (ii) or (b) (i) or (iii) of the
Act, the registrar must notify in writing the holder of the
certificate that the registrar intends to cancel the certificate.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply if




(a)

the registrar has reasonable grounds to believe that the guide dog or
service dog identified in the certificate poses a risk to the safety
of persons or other animals, or




(b)

the holder of the certificate has not complied with section 7.

[am. B.C. Reg. 188/2021, Sch., s. 7.]


[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Guide Dog and Service Dog Act

, S.B.C. 2015, c. 17, s. 11.]



