







B.C. Reg. 100/2002

O.C. 363/2002


Deposited May 17, 2002







This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024,

except for retroactive amendments made by

B.C. Reg. 29/2024.





Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Home Owner Grant Act


Home Owner Grant Regulation

[Last amended May 15, 2023 by B.C. Reg. 121/2023]



Part 1 — Definition





Definition




1


In this regulation,
"Act"
means the

Home Owner Grant Act

.

[en. B.C. Reg. 197/2021, App. 1, s. 1.]



Part 1.1 — Persons with Disabilities



Division 1 — Interpretation





Definitions and interpretation




2

(1)


In this Part:



"additional grant"

means a grant in the amount set out in Schedule 2 or 4 of
the Act, reduced, if required, in accordance with the Act;



"applicable section of the Act"

means section 2 (2) (b), 3 (3) (b),
4 (3) (b) or 5 (3) (b) of the Act;



"assistive device"

means a device designed to enable a person to perform a daily living
activity that, because of a severe mental or physical impairment, the
person is unable to perform;



"daily living activities"

, in relation to a person who has a severe mental or physical
impairment, means




(a)

any of the following activities taking place within the person's
principal residence:




(i)

preparing the person's own meals;




(ii)

managing the person's own finances;




(iii)

performing housework to maintain the person's principal residence in
an acceptable sanitary condition;




(iv)

moving about in the person's principal residence;




(v)

performing personal hygiene and self-care;




(vi)

managing the person's own medication;




(vii)

making decisions about the person's own activities, care or finances;




(viii)

effectively relating to, communicating with or interacting with
others, or




(b)

moving about on the land on which the person's principal residence is
situated;



"health professional"

means any of the following:




(a)

a medical practitioner;




(b)

a nurse practitioner;




(c)

a registered psychologist who is authorized by the College of
Psychologists of British Columbia to practise psychology;




(d)

an occupational therapist who is authorized by the College of
Occupational Therapists of British Columbia to practise occupational
therapy;


"help"
means any of the following:




(a)

an assistive device;




(b)

the significant assistance or supervision of another person;




(c)

the services of an assistance animal;



"mental impairment"

includes a mental disorder;



"person with disabilities"

means a person who is a person with disabilities within the meaning of
section 3 or 4;



"qualifying modification"

means a qualifying modification within the meaning of section 5;


"relative"
has the same meaning as in paragraph (a) of the definition of
"relative" in section 1 of the Act;



"severe mental or physical impairment"

means an impairment that is a severe mental or physical impairment
within the meaning of section 6.




(2)

For the purposes of section 2 (2) (b) of the Act and this regulation,
a person with disabilities resides with an owner if the person with
disabilities occupies either the owner's principal residence or other
residence, as defined in section 2 (5) of the Act, that is part of the
owner's eligible residence.

[en. B.C. Reg. 197/2021, App. 1, s. 1.]





Meaning of "person with disabilities" — grandparented class




3

(1)


A person is, for a tax year, a person with disabilities for the
purposes of an applicable section of the Act if,




(a)

for one or more of the 2001 to 2016 tax years,




(i)

the person was considered to be a person with disabilities under the
applicable section of the Act, and




(ii)

because of the circumstances described in subparagraph (i), an owner
received an additional grant, and




(b)

in the tax year,




(i)

the person resides in the same residence in respect of which the
additional grant was received, and




(ii)

if the owner who received the additional grant was not the person with
disabilities, that owner resides in the same residence in respect of
which the additional grant was received.




(2)

Despite subsection (1) (b) (ii), a person does not cease to be a
person with disabilities under this section for a tax year only
because the additional grant is claimed by a different owner if that
owner is the spouse or a relative of the person with disabilities.

[en. B.C. Reg. 197/2021, App. 1, s. 1.]





Meaning of "person with disabilities" — general class




4

(1)


A person is, for a tax year, a person with disabilities for the
purposes of an applicable section of the Act if, in the tax year,




(a)

the person has a severe mental or physical impairment, and




(b)

because of the severe mental or physical impairment,




(i)

the person receives help to perform a daily living activity in the
person's principal residence, or




(ii)

the person relies on a qualifying modification made to the person's
principal residence or the land on which the principal residence is
situated.




(2)

A person is considered to receive help for the purposes of
subsection (1) (b) (i) if, in the tax year, costs of at
least $150 per month on average are incurred to obtain the help.




(3)

A qualifying modification is considered to have been made for the
purposes of subsection (1) (b) (ii) if




(a)

costs of at least $2 000 have been incurred to make the qualifying
modification, or




(b)

both of the following apply:




(i)

the principal residence or the land on which the principal residence
is situated includes a feature that is a qualifying modification with
a value of at least $2 000, and




(ii)

the principal residence was purchased by the person claiming the
additional grant or, if different, the person with disabilities.




(4)

For the purposes of this section, costs are considered to be incurred
if the costs are paid or payable by or on behalf of the person
claiming the additional grant or, if different, the person with
disabilities.

[en. B.C. Reg. 197/2021, App. 1, s. 1.]





Meaning of "qualifying modification"




5


A qualifying modification is a modification that meets all of the
following requirements:




(a)

the modification is necessary




(i)

to enable a person to be mobile or functional within the person's
principal residence or on the land on which it is situated,




(ii)

to enable a person to gain access to the person's principal residence
or the land, or




(iii)

to reduce the risk of harm to the person within the principal
residence or on the land, or in gaining access to the principal
residence or the land;




(b)

the modification




(i)

is of an enduring nature and is integral to the principal residence or
the land, or




(ii)

relates to the purchase and installation of a modular or removable
version of an item of a type that can otherwise be installed as a
permanent fixture to the principal residence or the land, including,
but not limited to, modular ramps and non-fixed bath lifts;




(c)

the primary purpose of the modification is not to increase the value
of the principal residence or the land.

[en. B.C. Reg. 197/2021, App. 1, s. 1.]





Meaning of "severe mental or physical impairment"




6


An impairment is a severe mental or physical impairment if, in the
opinion of a health professional,




(a)

the impairment is likely to continue for a period of at least 2 years,




(b)

the impairment directly and significantly restricts a person's ability
to perform a daily living activity either continuously or periodically
for extended periods, and




(c)

as a result of the impairment,




(i)

the person requires help to perform a daily living activity in the
principal residence, or




(ii)

the person requires a qualifying modification to the person's
principal residence or the land on which the principal residence is
situated.

[en. B.C. Reg. 197/2021, App. 1, s. 1.]



Division 2 — Application Requirements





Application — information required from health professional




7

(1)


If required by the grant administrator, an application for an
additional grant in relation to a person with disabilities within the
meaning of section 4 must be accompanied by a document in which a
health professional




(a)

certifies that the person has a severe mental or physical impairment,




(b)

states the nature of the impairment, and




(c)

certifies that, because of the impairment,




(i)

the person requires the specific help the person is receiving in order
to perform one or more daily living activities in the person's
principal residence, or




(ii)

the person relies on the specific qualifying modification made to the
person's principal residence or the land on which the principal
residence is situated.




(2)

A document required under subsection (1) must be filed with the grant
administrator in the form and manner required by the grant
administrator.

[en. B.C. Reg. 197/2021, App. 1, s. 1.]





Application — other required information




8

(1)


If required by the grant administrator, an application for an
additional grant in relation to a person with disabilities within the
meaning of section 4 must be accompanied by a document in which the
person claiming the grant




(a)

certifies that, because of the severe mental or physical impairment,




(i)

costs were incurred as contemplated by section 4 (2) or (3) (a), or




(ii)

the principal residence of the person with disabilities was purchased,
and the principal residence or the land on which the principal
residence is situated includes a feature, as contemplated by
section 4 (3) (b) (i) and (ii),




(b)

describes the help received, or the qualifying modification relied
upon, by the person with disabilities, and




(c)

certifies that, if the person with disabilities is not the person
claiming the additional grant, the person claiming the grant resides
with and is the spouse or a relative of the person with disabilities.




(2)

A document required under subsection (1) must be filed with the grant
administrator in the form and manner required by the grant
administrator and accompanied by the following:




(a)

in the case of costs contemplated by section 4 (2) or (3) (a),
original receipts or other documentation, or both, setting out the
actual amount of the costs incurred;




(b)

in the case of a purchase contemplated by section 4 (3) (b) (ii),
evidence, satisfactory to the grant administrator, of the cost to
replace a feature referred to in
section 4 (3) (b) (i).

[en. B.C. Reg. 197/2021, App. 1, s. 1.]



Part 2 — Supplements





Definitions




9

(1)


The definitions set out in section 18.1 (1) of the Act apply to this
Part.




(2)

In this Part:



"adjusted net income"

, in relation to an eligible individual for a relevant tax year, means
the adjusted net income of the individual as determined under
section 11;



"dependent child"

, in relation to an eligible individual, means an individual who meets
all the following requirements:




(a)

is or was less than 19 years of age at some time during the relevant
tax year;




(b)

resided with either or both of the eligible individual or that
individual's shared-income partner for, as applicable,




(i)

in the case of an application for a supplement that is made in the
relevant tax year, at least 50% of the time in that relevant tax year
up to the date the application is made, or




(ii)

in the case of an application for a supplement that is made in the
subsequent tax year, at least 50% of the time in the relevant tax
year;




(c)

relied on either or both of the eligible individual or that eligible
individual's shared-income partner for the necessities of life for, as
applicable,




(i)

in the case of an application for a supplement that is made in the
relevant tax year, at least 50% of the time in that relevant tax year
up to the date the application is made, or




(ii)

in the case of an application for a supplement that is made in the
subsequent tax year, at least 50% of the time in the relevant tax
year;



"eligible individual"

means




(a)

an owner, or the spouse or relative of a deceased owner, who may be
eligible under section 2 (8) of the Act for a low-income grant
supplement,




(b)

an eligible occupant, or the spouse or relative of a deceased eligible
occupant, who may be eligible under section 7 (3) of the Act for a
low-income grant supplement,




(c)

an owner, or the spouse or relative of a deceased owner, who may be
eligible under section 2.1 (1) or (2) of the Act for a veterans
supplement, or




(d)

an eligible occupant, or the spouse or relative of a deceased eligible
occupant, who may be eligible under section 7.1 (1), (2), (3) or (4)
of the Act for a veterans supplement;



"maximum amount"

, in respect of a veterans supplement, means the maximum amount of the
veterans supplement calculated in accordance with section 2.1 (4) or
7.1 (6) of the Act, as applicable;


"net income"
of an individual for a tax year means




(a)

subject to paragraph (b), the net income of the individual for that
tax year as determined under section 3 of the

Income Tax Act

(Canada), or




(b)

$0, if the net income of the individual for that tax year as
determined under section 3 of the

Income Tax Act

(Canada) is less than $0;



"previous tax year"

means the tax year immediately preceding the relevant tax year;


"relative"
has the same meaning as in paragraph (b) of the definition of
"relative" in section 1 of the Act;



"relevant property"

means,




(a)

in relation to an owner, or the spouse or relative of a deceased
owner, referred to in section 2 (8) of the Act who is affected by a
grant reduction or elimination described in that provision, the
eligible residence referred to in that provision,




(b)

in relation to an eligible occupant, or the relevant spouse or
relative of a deceased eligible occupant, referred to in section 7 (3)
of the Act who is an eligible individual affected by a reduction in or
elimination of the benefit described in that provision, that
occupant's eligible apartment, eligible housing unit, eligible land
cooperative residence or eligible multi dwelling leased parcel
residence, as applicable,




(c)

in relation to an owner, or the spouse or relative of a deceased
owner, referred to in section 2.1 (1) or (2) of the Act, as
applicable, the eligible residence referred to in that provision, if,
for the relevant tax year,




(i)

the conditions in section 2.1 (1) (a) to (c) or (2) (a) and (b) of the
Act, as applicable, are met in respect of the owner or the spouse or
relative of the deceased owner, as the case may be, and




(ii)

if applicable, the condition in section 2.1 (1) (d) or (2) (c) of the
Act is met in respect of that eligible residence, and




(d)

in relation to an eligible occupant, or the relevant spouse or
relative of a deceased eligible occupant, referred to in section 7.1
(1), (2), (3) or (4) of the Act, as applicable, that occupant's
eligible apartment, eligible housing unit, eligible land cooperative
residence or eligible multi dwelling leased parcel residence, as the
case may be, if, for the relevant tax year,




(i)

the conditions in section 7.1 (1) (a) to (c), (2) (a) to (c), (3) (a)
to (c) or (4) (a) and (b) of the Act, as applicable, are met in
respect of the eligible occupant or the relevant spouse or relative of
the deceased eligible occupant, as the case may be, and




(ii)

if applicable, the condition in section 7.1 (1) (d), (2) (d), (3) (d)
or (4) (c) of the Act is met in respect of that residence;



"relevant tax year"

means the tax year in relation to which an eligible individual is
applying for a supplement;



"shared-income partner"

, in relation to an eligible individual for a relevant tax year, means
an individual who




(a)

is the eligible individual's spouse at the time the application is
made, and




(b)

was the eligible individual's spouse at some time during the relevant
tax year;



"subsequent tax year"

means the tax year immediately following the relevant tax year.


[en. B.C. Reg. 140/2012, s. 3; am. B.C. Reg. 197/2021, App. 1, s. 2.]






Supplement programs




10

(1)


A low-income grant supplement program is established for qualifying
low-income individuals.




(1.1)

A veterans supplement program is established for qualifying low-income
veterans and qualifying low-income veterans' spouses and relatives.




(2)

The grant administrator is responsible for administering the
low-income grant supplement program and the veterans supplement
program under and in accordance with the Act and this regulation.


[en. B.C. Reg. 124/2007, s. 2; am. B.C. Reg. 140/2012, s. 4.]






Adjusted net income limit




11

(1)


An eligible individual referred to in paragraph (a) or (b) of the
definition of "eligible individual" in section 9 (2) qualifies as a
low-income individual for the purposes of the definition of
"qualifying low-income individuals" in section 18.1 (1) of the Act in
relation to a relevant tax year as follows:




(a)

in the case of a relevant tax year up to and including 2011, if the
eligible individual's adjusted net income for the relevant tax year,
as determined under this section, does not exceed $30 000;




(b)

in the case of a relevant tax year after 2011, if the eligible
individual's adjusted net income for the relevant tax year, as
determined under this section, does not exceed $32 000.




(1.1)

An eligible individual referred to in paragraph (c) or (d) of the
definition of "eligible individual" in section 9 (2) qualifies as a
low-income veteran or a low-income veteran's spouse or relative, as
the case may be, for the purposes of the definitions of "qualifying
low-income veterans" and "qualifying low-income veterans' spouses and
relatives" in section 18.1 (1) of the Act in relation to a relevant
tax year if the eligible individual's adjusted net income for the
relevant tax year, as determined under this section, does not exceed
$32 000.




(2)

If an eligible individual does not have a shared-income partner in
relation to the relevant tax year, the adjusted net income of the
eligible individual for that relevant tax year is




(a)

the net income of that eligible individual for the previous tax year,


minus the total of the following, as applicable:




(b)

$3 000, if the eligible individual is 65 years of age or older at any
time during the relevant tax year;




(c)

for each dependent child of the eligible individual for the relevant
tax year,




(i)

$3 000,

minus



(ii)

one-half of any deduction that the eligible individual claimed under
section 63
[child care expenses]
of the

Income Tax Act

(Canada) for that previous tax year with respect to the dependent
child, to a maximum of $3 000;




(d)

in relation to amounts received under the

Universal Child Care Benefit Act

(Canada),




(i)

amounts that the eligible individual included for that previous tax
year under section 56 (6)
[universal child care benefit]
of the

Income Tax Act

(Canada),

minus



(ii)

any repayments that were deducted by the eligible individual under
section 60 (y)
[repayment of universal child care benefit]
of that Act for that previous tax year;




(e)

$3 000 for each person in respect of whom the eligible individual
claimed a deduction under section 118.3
[disability credit]
of the

Income Tax Act

(Canada) for the previous tax year.




(3)

If an eligible individual has a shared-income partner in relation to
the relevant tax year, the adjusted net income of the eligible
individual for that relevant tax year is




(a)

the total of




(i)

the net income of the eligible individual for the previous tax year,
and




(ii)

the net income of the shared-income partner for the previous tax year,


minus the total of the following, as applicable:




(b)

$3 000 for the shared-income partner;




(c)

$3 000, if the eligible individual is 65 years of age or older at any
time during the relevant tax year;




(d)

$3 000, if the shared-income partner is 65 years of age or older at
any time during the relevant tax year;




(e)

for each dependent child of the eligible individual or the
shared-income partner for the relevant tax year,




(i)

$3 000,

minus



(ii)

one-half of any deduction that the eligible individual or the
shared-income partner claimed under section 63
[child care expenses]
of the

Income Tax Act

(Canada) for that previous tax year with respect to the dependent
child, to a maximum of $3 000;




(f)

in relation to amounts received under the

Universal Child Care Benefit Act

(Canada),




(i)

amounts that the eligible individual or the shared-income partner
included for that previous tax year under section 56 (6)
[universal child care benefit]
of the

Income Tax Act

(Canada),

minus



(ii)

any repayments that were deducted by the eligible individual or the
shared-income partner under section 60 (y)
[repayment of universal child care benefit]
of that Act for that previous tax year;




(g)

$3 000 for each person in respect of whom the eligible individual or
the shared-income partner claimed a deduction under section 118.3
[disability credit]
of the

Income Tax Act

(Canada) for the previous tax year.


[en. B.C. Reg. 124/2007, s. 2; am. B.C. Regs. 95/2008, s. 4; 140/2012,
s. 5.]






Time limit for application




12

(1)


A qualifying low-income individual who wishes to apply to the grant
administrator for a low-income grant supplement for a tax year must do
so on or before December 31 of the subsequent tax year.




(2)

A qualifying low-income veteran or qualifying low-income veteran's
spouse or relative who wishes to apply to the grant administrator for
a veterans supplement for a tax year must do so on or before December
31 of the subsequent tax year.


[en. B.C. Reg. 124/2007, s. 2; am. B.C. Reg. 140/2012, s. 6.]






Additional conditions for low-income grant supplement — application
made in relevant tax year




13

(1)


This section applies in relation to an application for a low-income
grant supplement that is made in the relevant tax year.




(2)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 95/2008, s. 5 (a).]




(3)

In the case of an application by an eligible individual who is




(a)

the owner of an eligible residence under section 2 (1) or (1.1) of the
Act, or




(b)

an eligible occupant of another form of relevant property under
section 3 (2) or (2.1), 4 (2) or (2.1), or
5 (2) or (2.1) of the Act,


the individual must, on the date the application is made,




(c)

be a Canadian citizen or a permanent resident,




(c.1)

be ordinarily resident in British Columbia, and




(d)

occupy the relevant property as the individual's principal residence.




(4)

In the case of an application by an eligible individual who is the
spouse or relative of a deceased owner within the meaning of
section 2 (6) of the Act




(a)

on the date of the owner's death, the individual must have occupied
the relevant property as the individual's principal residence, and




(b)

on the date the application is made,




(i)

the individual must be a Canadian citizen or a permanent resident,




(i.1)

the individual must be ordinarily resident in British Columbia,




(ii)

the individual must continue to occupy the relevant property as the
individual's principal residence, and




(iii)

the relevant property must be registered in a land title office in the
name of the deceased owner, that owner's estate or the spouse or
relative.




(5)

In the case of an application by an eligible individual who is the
spouse or relative of a deceased occupant, whichever of the following
requirements is applicable must be met on the date the application is
made:




(a)

in the case of a spouse or relative within the meaning of section 3
(6) of the Act, the relevant property must continue to be an eligible
apartment or eligible housing unit under that subsection;




(b)

in the case of a spouse or relative within the meaning of section 4
(6) of the Act, the relevant property must continue to be an eligible
land cooperative residence under that subsection;




(c)

in the case of a spouse or relative within the meaning of section 5
(6) of the Act, the relevant property must continue to be an eligible
multi dwelling leased parcel residence under that subsection.


[en. B.C. Reg. 124/2007, s. 2; am. B.C. Regs. 95/2008, s. 5; 295/2010,
s. 2; 17/2021, Sch. 2, s. 8.]






Additional conditions for veterans supplement —

application made in relevant tax year




13.1


Section 13 of this regulation applies to an application for a veterans
supplement as if it were an application for a low-income grant
supplement except that, in respect of an application for a veterans
supplement, sections 5.1 to 5.4 of the Act apply for the
purposes of the requirements in section 13 (3) (d) and (4) (a) and (b)
(ii).

[en. B.C. Reg. 140/2012, s. 7.]





Additional conditions — application made in subsequent tax year




14

(1)


Section 13 applies in relation to an application for a low-income
grant supplement that is made in the subsequent tax year as if the
application had been made on December 31 of the relevant tax
year.




(2)

Section 13.1 applies in relation to an application for a veterans
supplement that is made in the subsequent tax year as if the
application had been made on December 31 of the relevant tax
year.

[en. B.C. Reg. 140/2012, s. 8.]





Circumstances in which application must not be accepted




15


An application for a supplement must not be accepted by the grant
administrator if any of the following circumstances apply:




(a)

the application does not include information, documentary evidence or
verification required by the grant administrator under
section 18.1 (4) of the Act;




(b)

the applicant or the applicant's shared-income partner did not file a
return of income under the

Income Tax Act

(Canada) for the previous tax year.




(c)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 140/2012, s. 9 (b).]


[en. B.C. Reg. 124/2007, s. 2; am. B.C. Regs. 95/2008, s. 6; 140/2012,
s. 9.]






Amount of the low-income grant supplement — category 1




16

(1)


A category 1 applicant is a qualifying low-income individual for the
relevant tax year who satisfies all conditions of eligibility for a
low-income grant supplement under the Act and this regulation for the
relevant tax year and




(a)

in the case of a relevant tax year up to and including 2011, has an
adjusted net income for that tax year that does not exceed $28 000, or




(b)

in the case of a relevant tax year after 2011, has an adjusted net
income for that tax year that does not exceed $30 000.




(2)

Subject to section 18.1 (11) of the Act and section 18 of this
regulation, a category 1 applicant is entitled to a low-income grant
supplement for the relevant tax year in an amount equal to, as
applicable,




(a)

the amount of the grant reduction described in section 2 (8) of the
Act for the relevant tax year, or




(b)

the amount of the reduction in the benefit described in section 7 (3)
of the Act for the relevant tax year.


[en. B.C. Reg. 124/2007, s. 2; am. B.C. Reg. 140/2012, s. 10.]






Amount of the low-income grant supplement — category 2




17

(1)


A category 2 applicant is a qualifying low-income individual for the
relevant tax year who satisfies all conditions of eligibility for a
low-income grant supplement under the Act and this regulation for the
relevant tax year and




(a)

in the case of a relevant tax year up to and including 2011, has an
adjusted net income for that tax year that exceeds $28 000 but
does not exceed $30 000, or




(b)

in the case of a relevant tax year after 2011, has an adjusted net
income for that tax year that exceeds $30 000 but does not exceed
$32 000.




(2)

Subject to section 18.1 (11) of the Act and section 18 of this
regulation, a category 2 applicant is entitled to a low-income grant
supplement for the relevant tax year in an amount equal to, as
applicable,




(a)

one half the amount of the grant reduction described in section 2 (8)
of the Act for the relevant tax year, or




(b)

one half the amount of the reduction in the benefit described in
section 7 (3) of the Act for the relevant tax year.


[en. B.C. Reg. 124/2007, s. 2; am. B.C. Reg. 140/2012, s. 11.]






Amount of the veterans supplement — category 3




17.1

(1)


A category 3 applicant is a qualifying low-income veteran or a
qualifying low-income veteran's spouse or relative, as the case may
be, for the relevant tax year who




(a)

satisfies all conditions of eligibility for a veterans supplement
under the Act and this regulation for the relevant tax year, and




(b)

has an adjusted net income for that tax year that does not exceed $30
000.




(2)

Subject to section 18.1 (12) of the Act and section 18 of this
regulation, a category 3 applicant is entitled to a veterans
supplement in respect of the relevant property for the relevant tax
year in an amount equal to the maximum amount of the veterans
supplement for that property and for that tax year.

[en. B.C. Reg. 140/2012, s. 12.]





Amount of the veterans supplement — category 4




17.2

(1)


A category 4 applicant is a qualifying low-income veteran or a
qualifying low-income veteran's spouse or relative, as the case may
be, for the relevant tax year who




(a)

satisfies all conditions of eligibility for a veterans supplement
under the Act and this regulation for the relevant tax year, and




(b)

has an adjusted net income for that tax year that exceeds $30 000
but does not exceed $32 000


if, for that tax year in respect of the relevant property that is the
subject of the application,




(c)

in the case of an eligible residence, the grant to which the applicant
is entitled under section 2 of the Act is not reduced or
eliminated under section 2 (3) (a) or (b) of the
Act, or




(d)

in the case of an eligible apartment, eligible housing unit, eligible
land cooperative residence or eligible multi dwelling leased parcel
residence, the grant to which the owner of the applicable eligible
building, land cooperative or multi dwelling leased parcel is entitled
under section 3, 4 or 5 of the Act, as applicable, is not reduced or
eliminated under section 3 (4), 4 (4) or 5 (4) of the Act, as
applicable.




(2)

Subject to section 18.1 (12) of the Act and section 18 of this
regulation, a category 4 applicant is entitled to a veterans
supplement in respect of the relevant property for the relevant tax
year in an amount equal to the maximum amount of the veterans
supplement for that property and for that tax year.

[en. B.C. Reg. 140/2012, s. 12.]





Amount of the veterans supplement — category 5




17.3

(1)


A category 5 applicant is a qualifying low-income veteran or a
qualifying low-income veteran's spouse or relative, as the case may
be, for the relevant tax year who




(a)

satisfies all conditions of eligibility for a veterans supplement
under the Act and this regulation for the relevant tax year, and




(b)

has an adjusted net income for that tax year that exceeds $30 000 but
does not exceed $32 000


if, for that tax year in respect of the relevant property that is the
subject of the application,




(c)

in the case of an eligible residence, the grant to which the applicant
is entitled under section 2 of the Act is reduced or eliminated
under section 2 (3) (a) or (b) of the Act;




(d)

in the case of an eligible apartment, eligible housing unit, eligible
land cooperative residence or eligible multi dwelling leased parcel
residence, the grant to which the owner of the applicable eligible
building, land cooperative or multi dwelling leased parcel is entitled
under section 3, 4 or 5 of the Act, as applicable, is reduced or
eliminated under section 3 (4), 4 (4) or 5 (4) of the Act, as
applicable.




(2)

Subject to section 18.1 (12) of the Act and section 18 of this
regulation, a category 5 applicant is entitled to a veterans
supplement in respect of the relevant property for the relevant tax
year in an amount calculated by subtracting from the maximum amount of
the veterans supplement, for that property and for that tax year, one
half of the following amount:




(a)

for an eligible residence, the amount of the grant reduction under
section 2 (3) (a) or (b) of the Act, calculated as
if the applicant were entitled to a grant in the relevant tax year in
respect of the eligible residence under,




(i)

in the case of an eligible residence outside the northern and rural
area, section 2 (2) of the Act, and




(ii)

in the case of an eligible residence in the northern and rural area,
section 2 (2.1) of the Act;




(b)

for an eligible apartment or eligible housing unit contained in an
eligible building, the amount of the grant reduction under
section 3 (4) of the Act calculated as if the owner of the
eligible building were entitled to a grant in the relevant tax year in
respect of the eligible apartment or eligible housing unit under,




(i)

in the case of an eligible building outside the northern and rural
area, section 3 (3) of the Act, and




(ii)

in the case of an eligible building in the northern and rural area,
section 3 (3.1) of the Act;




(c)

for an eligible land cooperative residence contained in a land
cooperative, the amount of the grant reduction under
section 4 (4) of the Act calculated as if the owner of the
land cooperative were entitled to a grant in the relevant tax year in
respect of the eligible land cooperative residence under,




(i)

in the case of a land cooperative outside the northern and rural area,
section 4 (3) of the Act, and




(ii)

in the case of a land cooperative in the northern and rural area,
section 4 (3.1) of the Act;




(d)

for an eligible multi dwelling leased parcel residence contained in a
multi dwelling leased parcel, the amount of the grant reduction under
section 5 (4) of the Act calculated as if the owner of the multi
dwelling leased parcel were entitled to a grant in the relevant tax
year in respect of the eligible multi dwelling leased parcel residence
under,




(i)

in the case of a multi dwelling leased parcel outside the northern and
rural area, section 5 (3) of the Act, and




(ii)

in the case of a multi dwelling leased parcel in the northern and
rural area, section 5 (3.1) of the Act.

[en. B.C. Reg. 140/2012, s. 12.]





Limit on supplement




18


An applicant is not eligible to receive a supplement if the amount of
the supplement would be less than $25.


[en. B.C. Reg. 124/2007, s. 2; am. B.C. Reg. 140/2012, s. 13.]






Reasons must be provided if decision against supplement application




19


If the grant administrator




(a)

rejects or does not accept an application for a supplement, or




(b)

approves the application for an amount less than the amount for which
the application was made,


the grant administrator must, within 30 days of making this
determination, give the applicant the reasons for the determination.


[en. B.C. Reg. 124/2007, s. 2; am. B.C. Regs. 140/2012, s. 13;
197/2021, App. 1, s. 3.]




Part 3 — General





Applicable amount




20


For the purposes of the definition of "applicable amount" in section 1
of the Act, the amount prescribed is 25% of the assessed value of the
housing unit that is, or is located in, a housing society building
determined at the time the right to occupy the housing unit was
acquired.

[en. B.C. Reg. 197/2021, App. 1, s. 4.]





Lease term for multi dwelling leased parcels




21


For the purposes of the definition of "multi dwelling leased parcel"
in section 1 of the Act, the number of years prescribed is one.

[en. B.C. Reg. 197/2021, App. 1, s. 4.]





Threshold amount




22


For the purposes of the definition of "threshold amount" in section 1
of the Act, the amount prescribed is $2 125 000.


[en. B.C. Reg. 197/2021, App. 1, s. 4; am. B.C. Regs. 93/2022;
77/2023.]






Application — properties with multiple residences




23


To enable a person to make an application for a grant in respect of a
property described in section 3, 4 or 5
[grants for various eligible properties]
of the Act,




(a)

each person who is an eligible occupant in relation to the property
must complete an application, in the form and manner, and containing
the information, required by the grant administrator, and




(b)

give the application to the person making the application for the
grant.

[en. B.C. Reg. 197/2021, App. 1, s. 4.]





Interest payable to government




24

(1)


For the purposes of section 17.16
[interest]
of the Act, interest must be calculated




(a)

at the rate prescribed by subsection (2), and




(b)

on a daily basis and compounded monthly.




(2)

The rate of interest under section 17.16 of the Act is, during each
successive 3-month period beginning on July 1, October 1,
January 1 and April 1 in every year, 3% above the prime
lending rate of the principal banker to the Province on the
15th day of the month immediately preceding that 3-month period.

[en. B.C. Reg. 197/2021, App. 1, s. 4.]





Certificate of lien form




25


The form set out in Schedule 3 is prescribed for the purposes of
section 17.22
[lien]
of the Act.

[en. B.C. Reg. 197/2021, App. 1, s. 4.]





Information sharing — prescribed enactment




26


For the purposes of section 17.261 (5) (j)
[information sharing]
of the Act, the prescribed enactment is section 8 of the

Financial Administration Act

.

[en. B.C. Reg. 121/2023, Sch. 2.]



Schedules 1 and 2

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 258/2010, Sch., s. 5.]


Schedule 3

[en. B.C. Reg. 197/2021, App. 1, s. 5.]




CREST
Province of British Columbia
Ministry of Finance




IN THE MATTER OF THE
HOME OWNER GRANT ACT
, R.S.B.C. 1996, CHAPTER 194, SECTION 17.22 AND IN THE MATTER OF THE
INTEREST


OF......................................................................................................................................
[name]


IN...................................................................................................................................................


......................................................................
[P.I.D. number and full legal description of land]

CERTIFICATE OF LIEN
I certify that:



1

.......................................................................................................................................

[Debtor name]





.......................................................................................................................................

[Debtor address]





is required to pay or remit an amount to the government under the Home
Owner Grant Act but has not paid or remitted that amount.




2

The amount remaining unpaid or unremitted as of the date of this
certificate is


$....................................





AND TAKE NOTICE that on registration of this certificate in the land
title office, the amount of the indebtedness to Her Majesty the Queen in
right of the Province of British Columbia is a lien against the land
described above.


Dated at........................................, British Columbia
on..................................
[Date]


......................................................................................

Grant Administrator,
Home Owner Grant Act


[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Home Owner Grant Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 194, s. 18.]



