







B.C. Reg. 586/76

O.C. 3301/76


Filed November 15, 1976






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.


Human Resource Facility Act


Human Resource Facility Former Grants Regulation

[includes amendments up to B.C. Reg. 278/99]





Repealed




1-5


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 278/99, s. 2 (b).]






Conditions of aid




6


Where an application is approved by the minister and aid granted, the
following conditions of such aid shall apply:




(a)

where the total cost of a project, approved by the minister, includes
an amount to be expended in acquiring an interest in land, or in
acquiring an interest in land and improvements thereon, or in erecting
improvements on land already owned by the applicant, the land and
improvements thereon shall not be remortgaged, sold, leased or
transferred in whole or in part, and the use of the land and
improvements thereon shall not be changed, without the prior written
consent of the minister;




(b)

where the aid has been used to obtain an interest in land and
improvements thereon, or has been used to erect improvements on land
already owned by the applicant, and where the interest in the real
property is sold, transferred or leased by the applicant, the minister
may require that a share of the proceeds resulting from such sale,
transfer or lease shall be paid to the Crown in right of the Province
of British Columbia. Such share of the proceeds shall be in the same
proportion as that which existed between the dollar value of aid
granted by the Province and the dollar value of the aforesaid property
at the time that such aid was granted;




(c)

where property acquired with money raised by way of a grant under the

Human Resource Facility Act

is transferred, remortgaged or put into use for any purpose other than
that approved by the minister, the minister may from time to time
require the recipient to refund to the Crown in the right of the
Province of British Columbia all or part of the amount of such grant;




(d)

the facility for which aid is or has been granted shall be subject to
inspection at any time by any person duly appointed by the minister
for this purpose;




(e)

the applicant for a grant shall submit an audited financial statement
to the minister annually, or at any other time that an audited
financial statement is requested in writing by the minister.






Filing of notice of property restrictions




7


Where aid has been granted pursuant to the

Human Resource Facility Act

and its regulations, the minister shall file with the registrar of the
land registration district in which the property is situate a notice
that the said property is subject to the restrictions on transfer
contained in this regulation.






Applicability of regulation




8

(1)


This regulation shall apply with respect to all applications which
have been approved or to any aid which has been granted pursuant to
the
Treatment Resources Act
, or pursuant to its successor statute, the

Human Resource Facility Act

.




(2)

This regulation applies only to applications made and aid given before
the Human Resource Facility Regulation came into force.

[am. B.C. Reg. 278/99, s. 2 (c) and (d).]


[Provisions of the

Human Resource Facility Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 209, relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
sectionÂ 3]



