







B.C. Reg. 69/81

O.C. 429/81


Filed February 23, 1981






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Livestock Identification Act


Livestock Identification Regulation

[Last amended March 30, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 76/2022]





Interpretation




1


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the

Livestock Identification Act

;



"brand inspection area"

means an area defined in Schedule B for brand inspection purposes;


"cattle"
means animals of the bovine species by whatever technical name known;



"certificate of inspection"

means a completed certificate of inspection in a form approved by an
organization;



"contributor"

means a person who




(a)

consigns livestock to a sale yard or slaughterhouse,




(b)

sells or transports hides,




(c)

slaughters livestock in a place other than a slaughterhouse within the
meaning of the Livestock Licensing Regulation, B.C. Reg. 6/2015,




(d)

presents livestock to an inspector for inspection, or




(e)

transports livestock or causes livestock to be transported;


"feedlot"
means a fenced area where livestock are confined solely for the
purpose of growing or finishing by means other than grazing;


"Form 3"
means a completed livestock manifest in a form approved by an
organization;


"meat"
means that originating from cattle only;


"operator"
means a person licensed under




(a)

the Livestock Licensing Regulation as a public livestock sales
operator or a slaughterhouse operator, or




(b)

the Meat Inspection Regulation, B.C. Reg. 349/2004, to operate a
slaughter establishment;



"organization"

means an organization designated under section 9.1 of the Act;



"prescribed area"

means the portion of the Province east of the Cascade Mountains;


"sale yard"
means an enclosed area, and its associated structures,




(a)

at which livestock is offered for disposition to the public, and




(b)

that is operated or maintained by a person licensed under the
Livestock Licensing Regulation as a public livestock sales operator;



"slaughterhouse"

means




(a)

a slaughterhouse within the meaning of the Livestock Licensing
Regulation, or




(b)

a slaughter establishment within the meaning of the Meat Inspection
Regulation;


"transport"
means all methods of moving livestock, including driving or herding,
but excludes moving by public ferries;


"vehicle"
means a vehicle as defined in the

Motor Vehicle Act

.


[am. B.C. Regs. 227/84, s. 1; 511/95, s. 1; 285/97, s. 1; 228/2000,
App. 2, s. 2; 333/2003, s. 1; 6/2015, Sch. 2, s. 1.]




Part 1 — Livestock Brands





Repealed




2-3


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 285/97, s. 2.]






Register of brands




4

(1)


A register of brands must be maintained for brands registered under
this regulation on the date immediately before the date an
organization is first designated under section 9.1 of the Act.




(2)

A brand not registered under this regulation on the date immediately
before the date an organization is first designated under
section 9.1 of the Act must not be entered in the register
referred to in subsection (1).




(3)

A brand registered under this regulation on the date immediately
before the date an organization is first designated under
section 9.1 of the Act must not be renewed or transferred in the
register referred to in subsection (1).




(4)

No notice of trust may be received by or entered in the register
referred to in subsection (1).

[en. B.C. Reg. 285/97, s. 3.]





Inspection of register




5


The register referred to in section 4 must be open for inspection
during normal business hours and, on request and payment of any
applicable fee or cost of copy and certification, a person may obtain
a certified copy of any entry in the register.

[en. B.C. Reg. 285/97, s. 3.]





Expiration of registration




6


A registration in the register referred to in section 4 expires on the
earlier of




(a)

the coming into force of section 20 of the

Agriculture, Fisheries and Food Statutes Amendment Act, 1997

, or




(b)

midnight on the last day of the 4th calendar year following the year
of the registration or the latest renewal of the registration.

[en. B.C. Reg. 285/97, s. 3.]





Repealed




7-18


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 285/97, s. 4.]




Part 2 — Shipment and Inspection of Livestock



Cattle





Transport of cattle




19

(1)


No contributor shall send cattle from a place in a brand inspection
area to another in the same brand inspection area unless the
contributor first gives to the person transporting the cattle 3 copies
of a Form 3 for the cattle.




(2)

No person shall transport cattle from a place in a brand inspection
area to another in the same brand inspection area unless the person
carries the 3 copies of the Form 3 mentioned in subsection (1). This
subsection applies to an owner transporting the owner's own cattle.




(3)

No contributor shall send cattle from a place out of the prescribed
area to a sale yard or slaughterhouse situated out of the prescribed
area unless the contributor first gives to the person transporting the
cattle 3 copies of a Form 3 for the cattle.




(4)

No person shall transport cattle from a place out of the prescribed
area to a sale yard or slaughterhouse situated out of the prescribed
area unless the person carries the 3 copies of the Form 3 mentioned in
subsection (3). This subsection applies to an owner transporting the
owner's own cattle.




(5)

Where cattle are owned by more than one contributor and included in a
single shipment, the person transporting the cattle shall ensure that
they are distinctively marked on the upper portion of the body, if
they are not branded, by means of paint, working crayon or by some
other means so as to be readily identifiable from the cattle in the
shipment owned by another contributor.


[am. B.C. Regs. 227/84, s. 4; 6/2015, Sch. 2, s. 2; 76/2022, ss. 6, 7
and 11.]






Inspection of transported cattle




20

(1)


A contributor must not send cattle from a place in a brand inspection
area to a place outside it, other than cattle consigned to a sale yard
or slaughterhouse in the prescribed area, unless




(a)

the cattle have been inspected by an inspector at the place where they
are first loaded for transporting or at the point specified by the
inspector, and




(b)

the inspector has issued a certificate of inspection to which a copy
of Form 3 is attached.




(2)

A person must not transport cattle from a place in a brand inspection
area to a place outside it, other than cattle consigned to a sale yard
or slaughterhouse in the prescribed area, unless the person carries a
certificate of inspection issued by an inspector for the cattle and a
copy of Form 3 completed by the contributor.




(2.1)

Subsection (2) applies to an owner transporting the owner's own
cattle.




(3)

Where the cattle under subsections (1) and (2) are being consigned to
a sale yard or slaughterhouse in the prescribed area, section 19 (1)
and (2) applies.




(4)

The seller of cattle in the prescribed area shall, within 24 hours of
the transaction, notify the nearest inspector of the change in
ownership and deliver or send to the inspector a completed Form 3
showing the particulars when




(a)

the cattle are sold at a place other than a sale yard or
slaughterhouse, and




(b)

the cattle will not be immediately inspected under the provisions of
subsection (1) or (2).




(5)

A contributor who, without change of ownership, transports cattle from
a place in a brand inspection area to a place in another brand
inspection area for the purposes of grazing, is exempt from the
provisions of subsections (1) and (2), but before the cattle are
removed from the brand inspection area, to which they were transported
for grazing, to another brand inspection area, a certificate of
inspection is required.




(6)

An inspector may inspect cattle when not otherwise required by these
regulations, but on doing so, the inspector shall issue a certificate
of inspection.


[am. B.C. Regs. 227/84, s. 5; 511/95, s. 2; 285/97, s. 5; 333/2003, s.
2; 6/2015, Sch. 2, s. 2; 76/2022, ss. 6 and 8.]






Bill of sale




21

(1)


If, within 72 hours of being sold from a sale yard located in the
prescribed area, cattle are shipped to a destination either inside or
outside British Columbia, a bill of sale issued by the operator of the
sale yard is considered to be the required certificate of inspection.




(2)

When not inconsistent with the requirements of another enactment, a
person transporting cattle that are shipped under subsection (1) shall
take the cattle directly to their destination without unloading them
on the way.




(3)

Cattle purchased at a sale yard that are transported under a bill of
sale and unloaded at a holding area or unloaded at any other point
within the prescribed area for any reason may, at the discretion of an
inspector, on further shipment be subject to all the provisions of the
Act and this regulation as though the cattle had not been previously
inspected.


[am. B.C. Regs. 511/95, s. 3; 285/97, s. 6; 333/2003, s. 3; 6/2015,
Sch. 2, s. 3.]






Shipment through prescribed area




22

(1)


No person shall ship or transport cattle into or through the
prescribed area unless




(a)

the cattle are inspected by an inspector prior to entering the
prescribed area, or




(b)

on entering the prescribed area, the cattle are forthwith presented
for inspection to the inspector residing nearest to the point of
entry.




(2)

The inspector's certificate of inspection shall accompany the shipment
of cattle.




(3)

Cattle being transported into or out of a brand inspection area or the
prescribed area and that are intended to be or have been exhibited at
an agricultural exhibition without change in ownership shall be
inspected.




(4)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 511/95, s. 4.]


[am. B.C. Regs. 227/84, s. 6; 511/95, s. 4; 285/97, s. 7; 228/2000,
App. 2, s. 3.]






Sale yard or slaughterhouse in prescribed area




23

(1)


Where cattle are transported to a sale yard or slaughterhouse in the
prescribed area, the operator accepting the cattle for any purpose
shall




(a)

keep the shipment separate, request a brand inspection certificate,
Form 3 or a bill of sale if the shipment is being received direct
from another sale yard in the prescribed area, and call an inspector
within 24 hours after delivery, and




(b)

not release the cattle until the cattle are inspected or otherwise
cleared by an inspector.




(2)

The contributor who shipped the cattle to the sale yard or
slaughterhouse is responsible for their maintenance until the
inspector has issued the inspector's certificate of inspection or
otherwise cleared them.




(3)

The operator of a sale yard or slaughterhouse, in or out of the
prescribed area, shall keep a record of all cattle movements into and
out of the sale yard or slaughterhouse which record is to be made
available to an inspector for the inspector's inspection on request.
The record shall contain




(a)

the name and address of the owner of the cattle,




(b)

the name and address of the buyer of the cattle, if applicable,




(c)

the number and a description of the cattle including any brands on the
cattle, and




(d)

the cancelled cheque or other document issued in payment for the
cattle, if applicable.




(4)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 285/97, s. 8.]




(4.1)

If livestock is delivered to a sale yard or slaughterhouse in the
prescribed area and brand inspection is required, the operator must
collect from the contributor the inspection fee for each head of
livestock inspected and pay that fee to the inspector on request.




(4.2)

The operator of a sale yard may retain a commission of 3% for the
collection of inspection fees under subsection (4.1).




(4.3)

The operator of a slaughterhouse may retain a commission of 5% for the
collection of inspection fees under subsection (4.1).




(5)

Subsection (1) shall apply to a feedlot in the prescribed area when
accepting cattle originating from a place within the same brand
inspection area in which the feedlot is located.


[am. B.C. Regs. 277/84, s. 7; 285/97, s. 8; 333/2003, s. 4; 6/2015,
Sch. 2, ss. 2 to 4; 76/2022, s. 7.]






Sale yard or slaughterhouse out of prescribed area




24

(1)


No operator of a sale yard or slaughterhouse that is situated out of
the prescribed area shall accept any shipment of cattle from a
contributor




(a)

situated within the prescribed area unless the cattle are accompanied
by a brand inspection certificate issued by an inspector, or a bill of
sale issued by an operator of a sale yard located in the prescribed
area within 72 hours of the sale;




(b)

situated out of the prescribed area unless the shipment is accompanied
by a Form 3.




(2)

An operator of a sale yard that is out of the prescribed area may,
with the approval of an inspector, substitute a book check in system
for calves of a recognized dairy breed under the apparent age of 3
weeks in place of a Form 3. The record shall show the name and
address of a contributor and the number, kind and colour of the calves
being contributed for sale. The contributor shall sign the book to
certify the correctness of the information.




(3)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 227/84, s. 8.]


[am. B.C. Regs. 227/84, s. 8; 6/2015, Sch. 2, ss. 2 and 3.]






Inspection of driven cattle




25


Any person has the right to inspect cattle being driven, within the
prescribed area, other than on the land of the owner, in order to
check the brands and other markings on the cattle. The person driving
the cattle shall assist in the inspection.






Return of other's cattle




26


A person transporting cattle who finds that an animal has become mixed
with the person's shall separate the cattle and return any that are
not the person's to the owner of the cattle or to any reasonable place
designated by the owner of the cattle. This shall be done at no
expense to the owner of the cattle and within a mutually agreed time.

[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 7.]





Movement of cattle into British Columbia




26.1


For cattle entering British Columbia, an inspector may accept a
certificate of inspection or its equivalent issued by an
out-of-province inspection service recognized by an organization,
without re-inspection and without fee, provided that the livestock are
as described in the certificate.

[en. B.C. Reg. 333/2003, s. 5.]



Horses





Brands on horses




27


Every person who has in the person's control north of the 57th
parallel a horse that is apparently over the age of 6 months and that
is not branded in accordance with the Act or registered under the
terms of the
Animal Pedigree Act
(Canada) shall, on gaining that control by purchase, hire, finding or
otherwise, or, on a horse whom the person has in control attaining the
age of 6 months,




(a)

brand the horse if the person is entitled to do so by reason of
ownership of it, or




(b)

deliver the horse to the person entitled to brand the horse by reason
of ownership of it, whereupon the person so entitled shall brand the
horse.


[am. B.C. Regs. 6/2015, Sch. 2, s. 5; 76/2022, ss. 6 and 7.]






Horses in sale yard




28

(1)


An operator of a sale yard shall not take delivery of horses for sale
unless they are accompanied by a Form 3.




(2)

An operator of a sale yard in the prescribed area receiving horses for
sale shall forthwith request an inspector to inspect them.




(3)

No person shall remove horses from a sale yard within the prescribed
area until an inspector has authorized their removal.




(4)

The contributor who shipped the horses is responsible for their
maintenance until the inspector has cleared them for sale.




(5)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 285/97, s. 9.]




(6)

If horses are consigned to a sale yard or slaughterhouse and brand
inspection is required, the operator must collect from the contributor
the inspection fee for each head inspected and pay that fee to the
inspector on request.




(7)

The operator of a sale yard may retain a commission of 3% for the
collection of inspection fees under subsection (6).




(8)

The operator of a slaughterhouse may retain a commission of 5% for the
collection of inspection fees under subsection (6).


[am. B.C. Regs. 227/84, s. 9; 285/97, s. 9; 333/2003, s. 6; 6/2015,
Sch. 2, ss. 2 and 3.]






Inspection of transported horses




28.1

(1)


No person shall send horses for delivery to a slaughterhouse or
feedlot in or out of the Province unless the horses have been
inspected by an inspector at the place where they are first loaded for
transporting or at a place specified by the inspector and the
inspector has issued a certificate of inspection to which a copy of
the Form 3 must be attached.




(2)

A person, including an owner transporting the owner's own horses, must
not transport horses for delivery to a slaughterhouse or feedlot in
British Columbia or to a licensed public sale or licensed
slaughterhouse or feedlot in Alberta unless the owner carries a
certificate of inspection issued by an inspector for the horses and a
copy of the Form 3 completed by the contributor.




(3)

If, within 72 hours of being sold from a sale yard located in the
prescribed area, horses are shipped to a destination either inside or
outside British Columbia, a bill of sale issued by the operator of the
sale yard is considered to be the required certificate of inspection.


[en. B.C. Reg. 227/84, s. 10; am. B.C. Regs. 511/95, s. 5; 285/97, s.
10; 333/2003, s. 7; 6/2015, Sch. 2, ss. 3 and 6; 76/2022, s. 7.]






Movement of horses into British Columbia




28.2


For horses entering British Columbia, an inspector may accept a
certificate of inspection or its equivalent issued by an
out-of-province inspection service recognized by an organization,
without re-inspection and without fee, provided that the livestock are
as described in the certificate.


[en. B.C. Reg. 511/95, s. 6; am. B.C. Regs. 285/97, s. 11; 333/2003,
s. 8.]




Part 3 — Hides and Hide Dealers





Repealed




29


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 228/2000, App. 2, s. 6.]






Sale of hide




30


No contributor shall sell a livestock hide to anyone other than to a
person licensed as a hide dealer under the Livestock Licensing
Regulation unless it is for the personal use of the buyer.

[am. B.C. Reg. 6/2015, Sch. 2, s. 7.]





Bills of sale for hides




31

(1)


This section does not apply to the purchase of a cattle or horse hide
by a dealer in hides where the hide comes from a slaughterhouse.




(2)

A contributor who sells or transfers ownership of a cattle or horse
hide shall first deliver to the buyer or recipient a bill of sale for
the hide.




(3)

No person shall acquire a cattle or horse hide unless the person first
receives from the owner a bill of sale for the hide.




(4)

A taxidermist or other person, except a person licensed as described
in section 30, who receives hides for treating for personal or
commercial use shall keep records of all hides the taxidermist or
other person receives and of the names and addresses of the persons
from whom the hides are received. These records shall be kept for at
least 2 years. The operator shall allow an inspector to examine,
during normal business hours, the records and hides in the operator's
possession.


[am. B.C. Regs. 6/2015, Sch. 2, s. 8; 76/2022, ss. 6 and 7.]






Disposal of hides




32

(1)


No person shall remove an ear tag placed on the ear of cattle,
otherwise mutilate the ears on a hide, or destroy or otherwise dispose
of a hide of any livestock that is slaughtered at a place
other than at a slaughterhouse.




(2)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 6/2015, Sch. 2, s. 9 (b).]


[am. B.C. Regs. 4/2010, s. 3; 6/2015, Sch. 2, s. 9.]




Part 3.1 — Slaughterhouses and Slaughterhouse Operators





Livestock defined




33


Livestock, in sections 34 to 37, includes swine, sheep and goats.

[am. B.C. Reg. 228/2000, App. 2, s. 8.]





Sale of hides




34


An owner of slaughtered livestock who sells the hide from that
livestock must keep, for at least 6 months, a record




(a)

signed by the purchaser, and




(b)

showing




(i)

a description of the hide, and




(ii)

the purchaser's name and address.

[en. B.C. Reg. 6/2015, Sch. 2, s. 10.]





Repealed




34.1


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 228/2000, App. 2, s. 9.]






Duties of operator of slaughterhouse




35

(1)


An operator of a slaughterhouse located out of the prescribed area
shall




(a)

maintain a copy of all bills of sale for livestock purchased by the
operator, and




(b)

request a Form 3 from the contributor of livestock which have been
received for sale on a rail grade basis or for custom slaughter.




(2)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 6/2015, Sch. 2, s. 11.]




(3)

The Form 3 and bills of sale shall be made available to an inspector
for inspection on request during normal business hours.


[am. B.C. Regs. 114/92, s. 1; 6/2015, Sch. 2, s. 11; 76/2022, ss. 8
and 11.]






Transport of meat




36

(1)


A person must not accept or transport a shipment of 1/4 or more of a
carcass for any reason unless the person receives or is in possession
of Form 3 or a bill of sale for that carcass setting out the
information required by Form 3.




(2)

This section applies only to meat being transported within the
prescribed area.




(3)

If meat is transported from a slaughterhouse at which the animal was
inspected before slaughter, the shipper of the meat must give to the
carrier a copy of the invoice sent to the consignee with respect to
the shipment.


[am. B.C. Regs. 227/84, s. 11; 511/95, s. 7; 6/2015, Sch. 2, s. 12.]






Repealed




37


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 6/2015, Sch. 2, s. 13.]






Repealed




38


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 228/2000, App. 2, s. 9.]




Part 4 — Detention and Seizure





Abandoned livestock




39

(1)


When an inspector takes into the inspector's possession apparently
abandoned livestock under section 5 (1) (g) of the Act, the inspector
shall




(a)

make all reasonable efforts to locate the owner of the livestock,




(b)

if not successful, publish a description of the livestock in no less
than one issue of a newspaper published in the Province and
circulating in the area in which the livestock were abandoned, and




(c)

if unclaimed within 10 days after publication of the last notice, sell
the livestock at the nearest sale yard, or with the approval of the
organization, by local public auction.




(2)

The proceeds of the sale shall be applied to the expenses incurred in
gathering, maintaining and selling the livestock. The remainder shall
be forwarded to the organization which will hold the money for 6
months, and if a claim is not received under subsection (3) the money
is to be paid into the consolidated revenue fund.




(3)

A person who provides to an organization satisfactory evidence of
ownership of the livestock sold under this regulation is entitled to
the money from the sale less the expenses if a claim is made within 6
months of the sale.


[am. B.C. Regs. 355/83; 285/97, s. 12; 6/2015, Sch. 2, s. 14; 76/2022,
ss. 6 and 7.]






Detained livestock




40

(1)


An inspector may cause any livestock to be detained at any place
designated by the inspector at the shipper's risk and expense for the
purpose of




(a)

inspection, or




(b)

establishing proof of ownership of the livestock.




(2)

Where an inspector causes any livestock to be detained or the proceeds
from the sale of any livestock to be held, the inspector shall
complete a notice in the form approved by an organization to the
operator and the contributor fully describing the livestock and
stating the reason why the livestock have been detained or the
proceeds held. The original copy of the notices to the operator and to
the contributor shall be delivered to the operator or the person in
charge of the livestock.




(3)

The operator or the person in charge of the livestock to whom the
notices under subsection (2) have been given shall forward the
contributor's notice to the contributor, if applicable.




(4)

An operator or the person in charge of the livestock, or any person on
their behalf, shall not release the livestock or make settlement of
the sale proceeds until a release in the form approved by an
organization, signed by an inspector, has been obtained.




(5)

An inspector in completing the release shall show the reason for the
release of the livestock or the sale proceeds and the inspector shall
not issue a release unless the inspector is satisfied ownership has
been established by the contributor.




(6)

Where a notice is issued under subsection (2) and after a period of 30
days an inspector is unable to determine ownership of the livestock,
the inspector shall




(a)

with the organization's approval, issue a release instructing the
operator to sell the livestock and to forward the proceeds to the
organization, or




(b)

issue a release instructing the operator to forward the amount held to
the organization. The organization shall hold the money for 6 months
and if not claimed within that period under subsection (7) the money
is to be paid into the consolidated revenue fund.




(7)

Any person who provides satisfactory evidence of ownership of the
livestock sold under this regulation to the organization is entitled
to the money from the sale less any expenses if a claim is made in
writing within 6 months of the sale.




(8)

An inspector shall immediately forward a report outlining the
circumstances of the sale to the organization.


[am. B.C. Regs. 285/97, s. 13; 76/2022, ss. 6 and 8.]






Inspection of transport vehicle




41

(1)


An inspector may at any time stop, and on producing identification as
to the inspector's appointment search without warrant, any vehicle in
which livestock, meat or hides are being or may be transported and
inspect the livestock, meat or hides being transported.




(2)

A person transporting livestock, meat or hides by vehicle whenever
required by an inspector to do so, shall




(a)

bring the vehicle to a full stop,




(b)

permit the inspection of the vehicle and livestock, meat or hides by
the inspector,




(c)

truthfully answer all questions asked by the inspector concerning the
livestock, meat or hides,




(d)

produce to the inspector the Form 3, brand inspection certificate or
bill of sale under which the livestock, meat or hides are being
transported as may be required, and




(e)

transport the livestock, meat or hides to the nearest point where
reasonable unloading facilities are available and unload the
livestock, meat or hides for inspection for which no compensation may
be claimed.

[am. B.C. Regs. 511/95, s. 8; 76/2022, s. 7.]





Seizure




42

(1)


Where an inspector finds any livestock, meat or hides that in the
inspector's opinion are being kept, driven, removed or shipped
contrary to the Act or this regulation or another enactment of the
Province or of Canada or where the inspector is not satisfied about
the ownership, the inspector may seize and remove the livestock, meat
or hides, by force if necessary.




(2)

If during the time the livestock, hides or meat so seized remain
undisposed of in the possession of the inspector, any person who
furnishes proof of the person's ownership thereof to the satisfaction
of the inspector and pays in full the costs and expenses incurred by
the inspector in the seizure, removal and retention, the inspector
shall deliver up possession of the seized livestock, hides or meat to
that person.




(3)

Subject to subsection (2), the inspector may sell at the inspector's
discretion the seized livestock, hides or meat after they have been in
the inspector's possession 10 days and the approval of the
organization is received. A report to the organization shall be made
by the seizing inspector giving full details of the seizure and of the
sale or other disposition made of the livestock, hides or meat seized.




(4)

Seized meat may only be sold with the approval of the local Medical
Health Officer or Public Health Inspector for the area concerned. Meat
not approved for sale shall be disposed of as condemned meat unfit for
human consumption at the discretion of the inspector.




(5)

The proceeds from the seized livestock, hides or meat shall be
remitted to the organization which shall deduct therefrom the costs
and expenses incurred by the inspectors in the seizure, removal,
detention and sale of the same. The organization shall retain the
proceeds so remitted for a period of 6 months subject to a claim of
any person who establishes to the satisfaction of the organization
that the person is entitled by reason of having been the owner or
mortgagee of the livestock, hides or meat at the time of the seizure
and sale. If the proceeds remain unclaimed at the end of 6 months they
shall be paid into the consolidated revenue fund.


[am. B.C. Regs. 228/2000, App. 2, s. 10; 76/2022, ss. 6 and 7.]




Part 5 — General





Bill of sale




43

(1)


A person who sells livestock shall give the buyer a bill of sale in
writing, signed by the vendor or the vendor's agent, giving the
following particulars:




(a)

place and date of sale;




(a.1)

the complete names and addresses of buyer and seller, or the seller's
computer code generated by the sale yard;




(b)

the number, kind, sex and colour of each animal sold;




(c)

a full description of the seller's brand and its location on the
animal. If the livestock has not been branded by the seller but does
have a brand, the brand under which the seller purchased the livestock
must be shown.




(2)

On the request of the buyer, the seller shall execute and deliver a
bill of sale registrable under the

Personal Property Security Act

which shall be prepared and registered at the buyer's expense.


[am. B.C. Regs. 511/95, s. 9; 333/2003, s. 9; 6/2015, Sch. 2, s. 3;
76/2022, s. 7.]






Repealed




44-45


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 285/97, s. 14.]






Records




46

(1)


An operator of a sale yard or slaughterhouse and a livestock dealer
must keep an accurate record of all livestock transactions to identify
the movement of livestock through their facility or possession for
ownership and health purposes.




(2)

The record under subsection (1) must adequately describe the livestock
concerned including brands, if any, and must be available for
inspection by an inspector on request.




(3)

All records required to be kept by this regulation must be maintained
for a minimum of 2 years.




(4)

In this section,
"inspector"
includes an inspector under the

Animal Health Act

.


[en. B.C. Reg. 228/2000, App. 2, s. 11; am. B.C. Reg. 6/2015, Sch. 2,
ss. 2 and 15.]






Evidence of ownership where brand not owner's




47


A contributor who presents purchased livestock which are branded with
a brand other than that registered in the contributor's name shall
also present to the inspector satisfactory evidence of ownership for
the livestock.

[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 7.]





Sale yard or slaughterhouse facilities




48

(1)


The operator of every sale yard or slaughterhouse shall




(a)

provide suitable buildings, alley, pens, chutes and gates as may be
required for an inspector to carry out the inspector's duties under
the Act and this regulation, and




(b)

install and maintain sufficient artificial lights where inspections
are carried out in buildings or when inspections are necessary other
than during daylight hours.




(2)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 228/2000, App. 2, s. 12.]


[am. B.C. Regs. 228/2000, App. 2, s. 12; 6/2015, Sch. 2, s. 16;
76/2022, s. 7.]






Repealed




49


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 228/2000, App. 2, s. 12.]






Repealed




50-52


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 285/97, s. 14.]






Repealed




53


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 511/95, s. 10.]






Repealed




54


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 228/2000, App. 2, s. 12.]






Offence




55

(1)


A person who




(a)

impresses or causes or directs to be impressed or assists in the
impressing of livestock with a brand or identification brand in a
location other than that specified on the brand certificate or permit,




(b) and (c)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 285/97, s. 16.]




(d)

buys, sells or offers livestock for inspection in any name other than
in the name of the owner of the livestock,




(e)

alters, obliterates or otherwise makes unreadable any part of a form
prescribed by the Act or this regulation other than an inspector
acting in the performance of the inspector's duty,




(f)

delivers livestock to a person or place other than to the consignee,




(g)

describes livestock or brands incorrectly on a Form 3 or inaccurately
completes a Form 3, or




(h)

contravenes section 19, 20, 21 (2), 22 (1), 23 (1) or (5), 24 (1), 25,
26, 27, 28 (1), (2) or (3), 28.1 (1) or (2), 30, 31 (2), (3) or (4),
34, 35 (1) or (3), 36 (1) or (3), 40 (4), 43 or 46


commits an offence and is liable to a fine not exceeding $2 000.




(2)

On the prosecution of a person for an offence under subsection (1)
(a), proof of the fact that the person was the owner or in possession
of the livestock that was impressed with a brand that was not
registered or an identification brand not authorized by permit, in the
absence of evidence to the contrary, is evidence that the person
impressed or caused or directed or assisted in impressing that
livestock with the brand or identification brand.


[am. B.C. Regs. 227/84, s. 12; 511/95, s. 11; 285/97, ss. 16 and 17;
228/2000, App. 2, s. 13; 6/2015, Sch. 2, s. 17; 76/2022, ss. 6 and 7.]




Schedule A

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 511/95, s. 12.]


Schedule B

[en. B.C. Reg. 227/84. s. 13.]

Brand Inspection Areas






District



Boundaries



1
Peace River


The Regional District of Peace River-Liard



2
Central-Interior


The Regional Districts of Fraser-Fort George, Bulkley-Nechako and
that part of Kitimat-Stikine situated east of the Cascade
Mountains



3
Cariboo


That part of the Regional District of Cariboo situated east of the
Cascade Mountains



4
Kamloops-Okanagan
south boundary

United States-Canadian International boundary





west boundary
Cascade Mountains




north boundary

The southern boundaries of the Regional Districts of Cariboo and
Fraser-Fort George





east boundary

The western boundary of the Columbia River, Nelson-Creston and
Rossland-Trail Electoral Districts



5
Kootenay


The Kootenay, Columbia River, Nelson-Creston and Rossland-Trail
Electoral Districts












NOTE:
1

The Regional District boundaries are as defined in their Letters
Patent approved under section 777 (1) of the
Local Government Act
.




2

The Kootenay, Columbia River, Nelson-Creston and Rossland-Trail
Electoral Districts are as established under the
Constitution Act
.






Schedules C and D

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 228/2000, App. 2, s. 14.]


Table of Fees

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 228/2000, App. 2, s. 15.]

[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Livestock Identification Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 271, ss. 5 and 10.]



