







B.C. Reg. 441/2003

O.C. 1128/2003


Deposited November 28, 2003

effective December 8, 2003





This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Manufactured Home Act


Manufactured Home Regulation

[Last amended July 15, 2021 by B.C. Reg. 197/2021]





Definitions and interpretation




1

(1)


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the

Manufactured Home Act

;


"bunkhouse"
means a manufactured home owned or leased by an employer to provide
sleeping accommodation for 2 or more employees during the term of
their employment;


"deposit"
means a deposit referred to in section 26 (1) (d) of the Act;



"floating home"

means a structure designed to float and to provide residential
accommodation;



"manufacturer"

means a person who manufactures or builds manufactured homes in the
ordinary course of their business;



"manufactured home park"

means a manufactured home park as defined in the

Manufactured Home Tax Act

;



"practising lawyer"

has the meaning in the

Legal Profession Act

;



"practising notary"

means a member in good standing under the

Notaries Act

;



"qualified supplier"

means a person designated by the registrar as a qualified supplier;



"transmission"

means a change of ownership in a manufactured home




(a)

under an order of a court,




(b)

consequent on a change in the office of a personal representative or
trustee,




(c)

by survivorship under a joint ownership,




(d)

by a sheriff's sale under the

Court Order Enforcement Act

, or




(e)

effected by the operation of any other Act or law,


but does not include an amalgamation of 2 or more corporations;



"travel or tourist trailer"

means a vehicle that is capable of being towed on its own wheels and
undercarriage by a motor vehicle and is licensed or required to be
licensed as a trailer under the

Motor Vehicle Act

for use on a highway.




(2)

For the purposes of the Act,
"transfer"
includes a transmission.

[am. B.C. Reg. 13/2008, s. 1.]





Standards




2


For the purposes of sections 32 and 33 of the Act a newly built
manufactured home must comply with the following standards:




(a)

sections 70 and 72 of Part 1 (19th Edition) of C22.1-2002 Canadian
Electrical Code of the Canadian Standards Association:




(b)

CAN/CSA A277-01, Procedure for Certification of Factory Built Houses
or the following portions of CAN/CSA Z240, MH Series-92, Mobile Homes:




(i)

CAN/CSA Z240.0.1-92, Definitions and General Requirements for Mobile
Homes;




(ii)

CAN/CSA Z240.1.1-92, Vehicular Requirements for Mobile Homes;




(iii)

CAN/CSA Z240.2.1-92, Structural Requirements for Mobile Homes;




(iv)

CAN/CSA Z240.3.1-92, Plumbing Requirements for Mobile Homes;




(v)

CAN/CSA Z240.4.1-92, Installation Requirements for Gas Burning
Appliances in Mobile Homes;




(vi)

CAN/CSA Z240.5.1-92, Oil Installation Requirements for Mobile Homes;




(vii)

CAN/CSA Z240.9.1-92, Requirements for Load Calculations and Duct
Design for Heating and Cooling of Mobile Homes.






Registrar may require proof




3


The registrar may require proof in a form acceptable to the registrar
of any of the following:




(a)

the authority of an agent;




(b)

the name, address and occupation of a person named in any record
submitted for filing;




(c)

the registered name of a corporation named in any record submitted for
filing;




(d)

the execution of any record submitted for filing;




(e)

any information contained in a record submitted for filing.






Exemptions




4

(1)


A manufactured home of any of the following classes is exempt from the
operation of the Act:




(a)

a floating home;




(b)

a camper;




(c)

a travel or tourist trailer;




(d)

a park model trailer built to Canadian Standards Association standards
in the CAN/CSA-Z241 series, Park Model Trailers;




(e)

a manufactured home being transported in or through British Columbia




(i)

from a manufacturer's place of business within British Columbia
directly to a location outside British Columbia, or




(ii)

from a location outside British Columbia directly to another location
outside British Columbia.




(2)

If a manufactured home is used as a bunkhouse it is exempt from the
operation of the Act during that use.




(3)

Section 25 of the Act does not apply to a manufactured home




(a)

the ownership of which is registered in the name of a manufacturer and
the location of which on the register is the manufacturer's lot or the
manufactured home dealer's lot,




(b)

the ownership of which is registered in the name of a manufactured
home dealer and the location of which on the register is the dealer's
lot or the manufacturer's lot, or




(c)

that is located on a manufactured home dealer's lot and the ownership
of which is registered in the name of a person who, under a transport
permit, transported the manufactured home to the dealer's lot.






Registrar's exemptions




5

(1)


For the purposes of section 21 of the Act, the registrar may exempt a
manufactured home from the operation of the Act or any provision of it
if




(a)

the manufactured home is located on and intended to be attached to
land, each lessor-owner or other secured party with a security
interest in the manufactured home who registered a financing statement
in the personal property registry under the

Personal Property Security Act

using the registration number assigned under the Act consents to the
exemption application and




(i)

at least one registered owner of the manufactured home is registered
in the land title office as an owner of the fee simple interest in the
land, or




(ii)

at least one registered owner of the manufactured home is registered
in the land title office as a tenant pursuant to a lease for a term of
not less than 3 years,




(b)

the manufactured home is no longer capable of being used for
residential accommodation, or




(c)

the circumstances are such that the registrar considers it practicable
to exempt the home from the operation of some or all of the provisions
of the Act for a specified period of time.




(2)

An application for an exemption under subsection (1) (a) filed
electronically must be submitted on behalf of the registered owner of
the manufactured home by a practising lawyer, a practising notary or
other qualified supplier.




(3)

A person who submits an application for an exemption under subsection
(2) on behalf of the registered owner of the manufactured home must
retain, for a period of 7 years, the original of or an image of the
original of




(a)

the application, and




(b)

any supporting documents.




(4)

The records retained under subsection (3) may be kept in electronic,
microfilm, paper or other format, if the format allows copies to be
made by means of a computer terminal or other electronic technology.




(5)

A person who retains records under subsection (3) must, within 7 days
and on payment of copying charges and charges for certified copies or
for providing evidence of records, provide copies of those records or
evidence to any person who requests them during normal business hours,
at the address set out in the exemption application.




(6)

If an application for exemption is not filed electronically under
subsection (2), the registered owner must submit for filing the
completed application, accompanied by any other record the registrar
requires.






Notices of transfer




6

(1)


A notice of transfer in relation to a sale evidenced by an instrument
of transfer executed by a registered owner of the manufactured home
may be filed electronically.




(2)

A notice of transfer referred to in subsection (1) must




(a)

be submitted on behalf of the registered owner of the manufactured
home by a practising lawyer, a practising notary or other qualified
supplier, and




(b)

set out the date of execution of the instrument of transfer.




(3)

A person who submits a notice of transfer under subsection (2) on
behalf of the registered owner of the manufactured home must retain,
for a period of 7 years, the original of or an image of the original
of




(a)

the instrument of transfer, and




(b)

the notice of transfer.




(4)

The records retained under subsection (3) may be kept in electronic,
microfilm, paper or other format, if the format allows copies to be
made by means of a computer terminal or other electronic technology.




(5)

A person who retains records under subsection (3) must, within 7 days
and on payment of copying charges and charges for certified copies or
for providing evidence of records, provide copies of those records or
evidence to any person who requests them during normal business hours,
at the address set out in the notice of transfer.




(6)

If a notice of transfer referred to in subsection (1) is not filed
electronically under that subsection, the registered owner must submit
for filing with the completed notice of transfer the original
instrument of transfer, or a certified copy of the instrument,
accompanied by any other record the registrar requires.




(7)

If a notice of transfer is in relation to a transfer to a person as a
co-owner with the transferor, the notice must state whether the
co-owners are tenants in common or joint tenants and, if they are
tenants in common, the respective fractional interest held by each
tenant in common.




(8)

If a notice of transfer is in relation to a transfer to more than one
person, whether or not as co-owners with the transferor, the notice
must state whether the transferees are, in relation to each other,
tenants in common or joint tenants and, if they are tenants in common,
the respective fractional interest held by each tenant in common.




(9)

If a notice of transfer is in relation to a transfer by a co-owner as
a joint tenant, the notice must state




(a)

that the transferee is a tenant in common, and




(b)

the fractional interest held by each tenant in common.




(10)

Subsection (9) does not apply if all of the co-owners have transferred
their interests to a single transferee or to 2 or more transferees as
joint tenants.




(11)

If a notice of transfer is in relation to a transfer from an owner to
a lessee owner, the name of both the owner and the lessee owner must
be given on the notice.






Transmission on death




7

(1)


If a transmission results from the death of a registered owner of a
manufactured home, the personal representative of the deceased
registered owner may submit for filing a notice of transfer,
accompanied by a certified copy of the grant of probate or letters of
administration issued from the court that made or resealed the grant.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), if the fair market value of the estate is $25
000 or less, an executor named in the will of the deceased registered
owner may submit for filing a notice of transfer, accompanied by




(a)

an affidavit, in a form satisfactory to the registrar, from each
executor named in the will of the deceased, that




(i)

the executor is named in the will attached to the affidavit, and
believes that the will is a true copy of the last will and testament
of the deceased, including any codicil to it, and that it was not
revoked by the testator during the testator's lifetime or by operation
of law before the testator's death,




(ii)

the executor has personal knowledge of the affairs of the deceased,
has searched the deceased's effects in order to ascertain whether
there are any debts or liabilities for which the estate may be liable,
and believes that the debts and liabilities of the deceased have been
fully paid, and




(iii)

with the exception of insurance policies payable to named
beneficiaries and jointly held assets, the total market value of the
estate, including the manufactured home, does not exceed $25 000,
and




(b)

a death certificate or a certified copy of a death certificate for the
deceased.




(3)

If an executor submits a notice of transfer under subsection (2), at
the same time the executor must submit a notice of the transfer from
the executor to the beneficiary.

[am. B.C. Reg. 10/2005.]





Transmission on death — surviving joint tenant




8

(1)


Despite section 7, if a manufactured home has been registered in the
name of 2 or more persons as joint tenants and a transmission results
from the death of one of the joint tenants, a surviving joint tenant
may apply to have the deceased removed from the register as an owner
by




(a)

submitting electronically for filing the notice of transfer, or




(b)

submitting for filing, other than electronically, the notice of
transfer, accompanied by a death certificate for the deceased joint
tenant or a certified copy of the death certificate.




(2)

A notice of transfer submitted electronically under subsection (1)
must be submitted on behalf of the surviving joint tenant by a
practising lawyer, a practising notary or qualified supplier.




(3)

A person referred to in subsection (2) who submits electronically a
notice of transfer on behalf of a surviving joint tenant must retain,
for a period of 7 years, the original of or an image of the original
of




(a)

the notice of transfer, and




(b)

the death certificate for the deceased joint tenant or a certified
copy of that death certificate.




(4)

The records retained under subsection (3) may be kept in electronic,
microfilm, paper or other format, if the format allows copies to be
made by means of a computer terminal or other electronic technology.




(5)

A person who retains records under subsection (3) must, within 7 days
and on payment of copying charges and charges for certified copies or
for providing evidence of records, provide copies of those records or
evidence to any person who requests them during normal business hours
at the address set out in the notice of transfer.

[en. B.C. Reg. 13/2008, s. 2.]





Transmission under
Personal Property Security Act




9

(1)


If a transmission results from the sale of the manufactured home as a
result of the exercise of the rights of a secured party under section
55 (6) or 59 of the

Personal Property Security Act

, the notice of transfer must be accompanied by




(a)

an affidavit, in a form satisfactory to the registrar, from the
secured party or receiver who caused the sale to be made,




(i)

that the secured party had, before the sale, a valid security interest
in the manufactured home given by the registered owner of the
manufactured home,




(ii)

that the registered owner's interest in the manufactured home has been
sold in compliance with section 55 (6) or section 59 of the

Personal Property Security Act

, and




(iii)

containing the personal property registry base registration number
that relates to the financing statement or financing change statement
filed in relation to the manufactured home,




(b)

a statement from the transferee, in a form satisfactory to the
registrar, that the transferee was the purchaser at the sale and, as
such, is entitled to be registered as the owner of the manufactured
home, and




(c)

if a receiver has been appointed,




(i)

a notice of appointment of the receiver signed by the secured party,
or




(ii)

a certified copy of the court order appointing the receiver.




(2)

If a transmission results from the operation of section 61 of the

Personal Property Security Act

, the notice of transfer must be accompanied by an affidavit from the
transferee, in a form satisfactory to the registrar,




(a)

that the transferee had, before the exercise of the transferee's
rights under section 61 of the

Personal Property Security Act

, a valid security interest in the manufactured home given by the
registered owner of the manufactured home,




(b)

that the transferee is entitled to be registered as the owner of the
manufactured home as a result of the operation of section 61 of
the

Personal Property Security Act

, and




(c)

containing the personal property registry base registration number
that relates to the financing statement or financing change statement
filed in relation to the manufactured home.

[am. B.C. Reg. 64/2021, s. 3.]





Transmission under court order




10


If a transmission has been made under a court order, the notice of
transfer must be accompanied by a certified copy of the court order.






Transmission other than under sections 7 to 10




11


Unless a transmission is under sections 7 to 10, a person who submits
a notice of transfer in relation to a transmission effected by the
operation of an Act or law must indicate in the notice the Act or law
under which the transmission occurred or which otherwise provided for
the transmission.






Transport permits




12

(1)


If the registrar issues a transport permit, the registrar must enter
on the register the new location described in the permit as the
location of the manufactured home.




(2)

If the manufactured home in respect of which a transport permit has
been issued is not transported to the specific location described in
the permit, the owner must submit to the registrar for filing a
report, in the form established by the registrar, specifying the new
location of the manufactured home or informing the registrar that the
manufactured home was not moved.




(3)

A report under subsection (2) must be submitted for filing within 3
days of the earlier of




(a)

the day the manufactured home was transported to the new location, or




(b)

the day the transport permit expires.




(4)

If the location of a manufactured home differs from the location on
the register, the owner must




(a)

submit for filing a report with the registrar in the form established
by the registrar that discloses that fact,




(b)

provide the registrar with any other information the registrar
considers necessary, and




(c)

pay the transport permit application fee.




(5)

On the filing of a report under subsection (2) or (4), the registrar
must




(a)

enter on the register the new location of the manufactured home, and




(b)

give written notice of the new location to all secured parties.






Requirement of applicants who are individuals




13


If the Act or this regulation requires that a record submitted to the
registrar set out the name of a person who is an individual, the
record must provide the name as follows:




(a)

the individual's surname;




(b)

the individual's first given name if the individual has a first given
name;




(c)

the individual's second given name if the individual has a second
given name.






Verification statement




14

(1)


If a record is filed under the Act, the registrar may provide to the
submitting party confirmation of the information filed.




(2)

If application is made for a transport permit by a person other than
the person recorded on the register as the registered owner of the
manufactured home, the registrar may provide confirmation of the
issuance of a transport permit to the person recorded on the register
as the registered owner.






Decals




15

(1)


The registered owner of a manufactured home must affix the decal
issued under section 5 or 6 of the Act to a position on the
manufactured home authorized by the registrar.




(2)

If an interior or exterior decal affixed to a manufactured home is
stolen, lost, defaced, mutilated or destroyed, the registered owner of
a manufactured home must obtain from the registrar a decal of the
appropriate class and must affix that decal to the home.






Deposits




16

(1)


A collector must not, as a condition of issuing a certificate under
section 25 (2) of the Act, require the applicant to pay a deposit
unless the manufactured home in respect of which the request is made
has been assessed in the name of the owner, separately from the land
on which it is located, and placed on the assessment roll of the
taxing authority for the current year.




(2)

The deposit must be an amount equal to the greater of




(a)

the sum of $75, or




(b)

the amount of taxes imposed or levied on the manufactured home, less
the Provincial home owner grant under the

Home Owner Grant Act

, if any, levied on the manufactured home in the immediately preceding
taxation year.




(3)

Interest on a deposit must be paid or credited by the taxing authority
as follows:




(a)

in a municipality other than the City of Vancouver, at the rate
prescribed under section 239 (2) of the

Community Charter

from the date of payment to the first tax penalty date stated in, or
established by, a bylaw under section 234 or 235 of the

Community Charter

;




(b)

in the City of Vancouver, at the rate stated in, or established by, a
bylaw under section 412 of the

Vancouver Charter

;




(c)

in a rural area, at the rate and by the method prescribed under
section 13 (1) of the

Taxation (Rural Area) Act

.




(4)

If it is subsequently determined that the deposit paid to the
collector exceeds the difference between the total amount of taxes
levied on the manufactured home and the grant under the

Home Owner Grant Act

, the taxing authority must, on request, pay the excess to the person
who paid the deposit.

[am. B.C. Reg. 215/2017, Sch. 2, s. 1.]





Receipt for deposit




17

(1)


If a deposit has been paid to a collector under section 26 (1) (d) of
the Act, the collector must issue a receipt for the payment and
include with the receipt an application for a grant under the

Home Owner Grant Act

.




(2)

An application for a grant referred to in subsection (1) is considered
to be included with a receipt if the receipt sets out the address of a
publicly accessible website, maintained by or on behalf of the
Minister of Finance, at which an application for a grant may be
accessed free of charge.


[en. B.C. Reg. 215/2017, Sch. 2, s. 2; am. B.C. Reg. 197/2021, App.
2.]






Certificate must be issued




18


The collector must not decline to issue a certificate under section 25
(2) of the Act if a manufactured home




(a)

has not been separately assessed and placed on the assessment roll of
the taxing authority for the current year, or




(b)

has been assessed as an improvement affixed to land.






Manner of filing records with registrar




19

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), unless otherwise allowed or required by the
registrar, a record that is to be filed with the registrar must be
submitted for filing in paper format.




(2)

Unless otherwise allowed or required by the registrar, the following
records must be submitted for filing with the registrar in an
electronic format that is compatible with the technical requirements
of the registrar:




(a)

a notice of transfer in relation to a sale, submitted for filing under
section 6;




(b)

an application for exemption in relation to a manufactured home
located on land, submitted for filing under section 5;




(c)

a notice of ownership submitted for filing by a manufacturer;




(d)

a transport permit application.






Search under section 20 of the Act




20


Unless otherwise allowed or required by the registrar, a search under
section 20 of the Act must be conducted in electronic format.






Abbreviated information




21

(1)


For the purposes of any record submitted for filing under this
regulation, an abbreviation set out in Column 2 of Schedule 2 may be
used instead of the information set out opposite that abbreviation in
Column 1.




(2)

For the purposes of any information entered onto the register by
registry staff, an abbreviation set out in Column 2 of Schedule 2 may
be used instead of the information set out opposite that abbreviation
in Column 1.






Fees




22


The fees in Schedule 1 are prescribed for the purposes of the Act.




Schedule 1

[am. B.C. Regs. 190/2008; 112/2010, s. 13.]

Fees





Item


Description


Fee










1

Notice of ownership

$50







2

Replacement decal

$10







3

Transport permit application

$25







4

Notice of transfer

$50







5

Caution/continuation

$20







6

Search of the register




(a)

by persons other than government personnel





(i)

if combined with a search of the Personal Property Registry and no
fee is charged under the
Personal Property Security Act

$12*




(ii)
in any other case
$7*



(b)

conducted by government personnel





(i)

if combined with a search of the Personal Property Registry and no
fee is charged under the
Personal Property Security Act

$15




(ii)
in any other case
$10







7

Certification of any record

$25







8

Copies of documents (uncertified)


50¢

for each page supplied








9

Tax sale notice

NC







10

Filing a record for which no other fee is charged

$15







11

Exemption order, except exemption orders respecting destroyed
manufactured homes

$50







12

Fee for priority service

$100









* In addition to a fee marked by an asterisk, a further operator fee of
$1.50, plus any tax imposed under Part IX of the
Excise Tax Act
(Canada) on the operator fee, may be charged for any transaction done by
electronic means from a location outside a government office or at a
government office by a person who is not a government employee.



Schedule 2





Column 1


Column 2
















Name


Abbreviation








Corporation
CORP







Incorporated, Incorporée
INC







Limited
LTD







Limitée
LTEE







Non Personal Liability
NPL








Location


Abbreviation








Block
BK







District Lot
DL







Fractional
FR







Group
GP







Indian Reserve
IR







Legal Subdivision
LS







Lot
L







Range
R







Right of Way
R/W







Section
SEC







Statutory Right of Way
SRW







Township
TP







Kamloops Division of Yale District
KDYD







Kootenay District
KD







New Westminster District
NWD







Osoyoos Division Yale District
ODYD







Peace River District
PRD







Queen Charlotte District
QCD







Similkameen Division of Yale District
SDYD







Yale Division of Yale District
YDYD







North
N







West
W







South
S







East
E







North East
NE







North West
NW







South East
SE







South West
SW







Quarter
QTR, 1/4







Half
1/2







Kilometre (s)
KM







Mile(s)
MI







Number
NO







Apartment
APT







Avenue
AVE







Boulevard
BLVD







Circle
CIR







Corner
COR







Court
CT







Crescent
CRES







Drive
DR







Highway
HWY







Place
PL







Road
RD







Rural Route
RR







Street
ST







Suburban Service
SS







Canada
CAN








Provinces


Abbreviation








Alberta
AB







British Columbia
BC







Manitoba
MB







New Brunswick
NB







Newfoundland
NF







Northwest Territories
NT







Nova Scotia
NS







Ontario
ON







Prince Edward Island
PE







Quebec
PQ







Saskatchewan
SK







Yukon
YT








States


Abbreviation








Alabama
AL







Alaska
AK







Arkansas
AR







Arizona
AZ







California
CA







Colorado
CO







Connecticut
CT







Delaware
DE







District of Columbia
DC







Florida
FL







Georgia
GA







Guam
GU







Hawaii
HI







Idaho
ID







Illinois
IL







Indiana
IN







Iowa
IA







Kansas
KS







Kentucky
KY







Louisiana
LA







Maine
ME







Maryland
MD







Massachusetts
MA







Michigan
MI







Minnesota
MN







Mississippi
MS







Missouri
MO







Montana
MT







Nebraska
NE







Nevada
NV







New Hampshire
NH







New Jersey
NJ







New Mexico
NM







New York
NY







North Carolina
NC







North Dakota
ND







Ohio
OH







Oklahoma
OK







Oregon
OR







Pennsylvania
PA







Puerto Rico
PR







Rhode Island
RI







South Carolina
SC







South Dakota
SD







Tennessee
TN







Texas
TX







Utah
UT







Vermont
VT







Virginia
VA







Washington
WA







West Virginia
WV







Wisconsin
WI







Wyoming
WY








Descriptions


Abbreviation








Bedroom
BDRM







Living Room
LR







Serial Number
SN









[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Manufactured Home Act

, S.B.C. 2003, c. 75, s. 40.]



