







B.C. Reg. 39/2022

Treasury Board


Deposited February 22, 2022






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)




Balanced Budget and Ministerial Accountability Act



Minister of State for Trade Expected Results

for the 2022/2023 Fiscal Year Regulation






Application of this regulation




1


This regulation applies to the Minister of State for Trade for the
2022/2023 fiscal year.






Definition




2


In this regulation,
"Act"
means the

Balanced Budget and Ministerial Accountability Act

.






Minister of State for Trade




3


The expected results that the Minister of State for Trade is to
achieve for the purposes of section 5 (3) of the Act are as
follows:




(a)

promote the 2022 BC Export Awards;




(b)

continue to consult with key stakeholders as ministry teams work
towards developing a new B.C. Trade Diversification Strategy which
should include new strategies to expand B.C.'s export opportunities;




(c)

continue to support Forestry Innovation Investment Ltd.'s efforts to
actively maintain, create and diversify demand for B.C.'s manufactured
wood products in key international markets;




(d)

continue to promote B.C. food and agriculture exports in collaboration
with the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Fisheries;




(e)

promote trade readiness programs across B.C., including B.C.'s Export
Navigator program, to help more small businesses export their goods
and services;




(f)

continue to promote the benefits of free trade agreements to help B.C.
businesses leverage new opportunities;




(g)

continue to engage with industry stakeholders to identify
sector-focused special projects that would support economic
development, trade and innovation in sectors including aerospace and
broader forest innovation;




(h)

lead consultation to advance the Mass Timber Action Plan including
engaging with the Mass Timber Advisory Council and industry
stakeholders;




(i)

support the development and implementation of a made-in-B.C.
Shipbuilding Strategy through engagement of stakeholders and partners,
including the B.C. Shipbuilding Advisory Committee;




(j)

submit to Cabinet a report on the results referred to in
paragraphs (a) through (i) on or before
March 31, 2023.



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Balanced Budget and Ministerial Accountability Act

, S.B.C. 2001, c. 28, s. 9.]



