







B.C. Reg. 26/2023

Treasury Board


Deposited February 8, 2023






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)




Balanced Budget and Ministerial Accountability Act



Minister of State for Trade Expected Results for the 2023/2024 Fiscal
Year Regulation






Application of this regulation




1


This regulation applies to the Minister of State for Trade for the
2023/2024 fiscal year.






Definition




2


In this regulation,
"Act"
means the

Balanced Budget and Ministerial Accountability Act

.






Minister of State for Trade




3


The expected results that the Minister of State for Trade is to
achieve for the purposes of section 5 (3) of the Act are as follows:




(a)

promote the 2023 BC Export Awards;




(b)

continue to consult with key stakeholders as ministry teams work
towards implementation of a new B.C. Trade Diversification Strategy,
which includes B.C.'s Export Navigator program, to help more small
businesses export their goods and services and new strategies to
expand B.C.'s export opportunities;




(c)

continue to support Forestry Innovation Investment Ltd.'s efforts to
actively maintain, create and diversify demand for B.C.'s manufactured
wood products in key international markets;




(d)

continue to promote B.C. food and agricultural exports in
collaboration with the Minister of Agriculture and Food;




(e)

work with all ministries to ensure more regular interactions with the
federal government on B.C.'s international trade and economic
priorities, including increased opportunities for face-to-face
meetings with staff and key ministers in Ottawa;




(f)

continue to promote the benefits of free trade and work across
ministries and with the federal government to ensure British
Columbia's interests are protected and advanced in trade negotiations
and disputes, including supporting the Minister of Forests on softwood
lumber negotiations with the United States;




(g)

continue to engage with industry stakeholders to identify
sector-focused special projects that would support economic
development, trade and innovation in sectors including aerospace and
broader forest innovation;




(h)

build on relationships with B.C.'s neighbouring jurisdictions,
including through the Pacific Coast Collaborative, the Pacific North
West Economic Region, and inter-provincial trade, to expand trade
opportunities for B.C. businesses and support our shared efforts to
reduce emissions;




(i)

support the development and implementation of a Westcoast Maritime
Industry Strategy;




(j)

submit to Cabinet a report on the results referred to in paragraphs
(a) through (i) on or before March 31, 2024.



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Balanced Budget and Ministerial Accountability Act

, S.B.C. 2001, c. 28, s. 9.]



