







B.C. Reg. 196/99

O.C. 732/99


Deposited June 28, 1999







This consolidation is current to February 27, 2024.

See the

Cumulative B.C. Regulations Bulletin 2024


for amendments effective after February 27, 2024.





Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Wildlife Act


Motor Vehicle Prohibition Regulation

[Last amended April 25, 2023 by B.C. Reg. 112/2023]





Definitions




1


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the

Wildlife Act

;



"all terrain vehicle"

or
"atv"
means a wheeled or tracked vehicle propelled by motorized power, and
capable of travel on or off a highway, including a motorcycle but not
including




(a)

a snowmobile, or




(b)

a motor vehicle that is licensed for highway travel under the

Motor Vehicle Act

;



"electric bicycle"

means a wheeled device




(a)

on which a person may ride,




(b)

with pedals or hand cranks that allow it to be propelled by human
power, and




(c)

with an electric motor;



"existing road or trail"

means




(a)

a road or trail with a paved surface,




(b)

a cross-country or downhill ski route marked in a ski area by the
owner of the ski area,




(c)

a road used for logging or mining,




(d)

a road or trail used for access to fences, power lines, wind
generators or communication towers, or




(e)

a trail on which there is no vegetation except on a strip that, if
present, can be straddled by a 4-wheel vehicle;


"highway"
has the same meaning as in the

Motor Vehicle Act

;


"hunting"
has the same meaning as "hunt" in the Act, and includes




(a)

transporting a hunter,




(b)

transporting game, or




(c)

transporting equipment, firearms or supplies which are intended for,
or in support of, hunting;



"management unit"

or
"M.U."
means an area designated as a management unit by B.C. Reg. 64/96, the
Management Unit Regulation;



"motor vehicle"

means a device in, on or by which a person or thing is being or may be
transported or drawn, and which is designed to be self propelled, and
includes an atv or snowmobile, but does not include




(a)

a device designed to be moved by human, animal or wind power,




(b)

a device designed to be used exclusively on stationary rails or
stationary tracks, or




(c)

a boat propelled by motorized power;


"motorcycle"
has the same meaning as in the

Motor Vehicle Act

;


"snowmobile"
means a vehicle designed primarily for travel on snow or ice, having
one or more steering skis, self propelled and using one or more
endless belts or tracks driven in contact with the ground.


[am. B.C. Regs. 80/2012, App. 6, s. 1; 169/2020, App. 5, s. 1.]






Motor vehicle closed areas




2


A person commits an offence if the person uses or operates a motor
vehicle or electric bicycle in an area described in Schedule 1 during
the period specified in that schedule for each area.

[am. B.C. Reg. 169/2020, App. 5, ss. 2 and 3.]





Motor vehicle hunting closed areas




3


A person commits an offence if the person uses or operates a motor
vehicle or electric bicycle for the purpose of hunting in an area
described in Schedule 2 during the period specified in that schedule
for each area.

[am. B.C. Reg. 169/2020, App. 5, ss. 2 and 3.]





Atv and snowmobile closed areas




4


A person commits an offence if the person uses or operates an atv,
electric bicycle or snowmobile in an area described in Schedule 3
during the period specified in that schedule for each area.

[am. B.C. Reg. 169/2020, App. 5, ss. 2 and 4.]





Atv and snowmobile hunting closed areas




5


A person commits an offence if the person uses or operates an atv,
electric bicycle or snowmobile for the purpose of hunting in an area
described in Schedule 4 during the period specified in that schedule
for each area.

[am. B.C. Reg. 169/2020, App. 5, ss. 2 and 4.]





Snowmobile hunting closed areas




6


A person commits an offence if the person uses or operates a
snowmobile for the purpose of hunting in an area described in Schedule
5 during the period specified in that schedule for each area.

[am. B.C. Reg. 169/2020, App. 5, s. 2.]





Atv hunting closed areas




7


A person commits an offence if the person uses or operates an atv or
electric bicycle for the purpose of hunting in an area described in
Schedule 6 during the period specified in that schedule for each area.

[am. B.C. Reg. 169/2020, App. 5, ss. 2 and 5.]





Snowmobile closed areas




7.1


A person commits an offence if the person uses or operates a
snowmobile in an area described in Schedule 7 during the period
specified in that schedule for each area.


[en. B.C. Reg. 218/2000, s. 1; am. B.C. Reg. 169/2020, App. 5, s. 2.]






Exemptions




8

(1)


Sections 3, 5, 6, and 7, with respect to trapping furbearing animals
only, do not apply to a person who is authorized to trap under the
Act.




(2)

Section 4 does not apply to a person who uses or operates an atv or
snowmobile for a commercial purpose, other than hunting, in an area
described in section 3 of Schedule 3.




(3)

Section 4 does not apply to a person who uses or operates a snowmobile
in an area described in section 3 of Schedule 3 during the period
December 1 to May 1 inclusive.




(3.1)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 169/2020, App. 5, s. 6.]




(4)

Section 2 does not apply to a person who uses or operates a
snowmobile, for a purpose other than hunting,




(a)

in an area described in sections 37, 38, 42, 75 and 107 to 110 of
Schedule 1,




(b)

in an area described in section 22 of Schedule 1 during the period
December 1 to March 31 inclusive, and




(c)

in an area described in section 41 of Schedule 1 during the period
November 1 to April 30 inclusive.




(5)

Section 2 does not apply to a person who uses or operates a snowmobile




(a)

in an area described in section 43 of Schedule 1 during the period
November 1 to May 31 inclusive,




(b)

in an area described in sections 21 and 44 of Schedule 1 during the
period December 1 to April 30 inclusive,




(c)

in an area described in section 46 of Schedule 1 during the period
December 1 to May 31 inclusive,




(d)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 218/2000, s. 2.]




(e)

in an area described in section 66, 71, 83, 84, 85 or 115 of Schedule
1, or




(f)

in an area described in section 69 (Middlepass Creek) of Schedule 1.




(6)

Section 2 does not apply to a person who uses or operates a motor
vehicle, except a snowmobile, for a commercial purpose other than
hunting in an area described in section 44 of Schedule 1.




(7)

Section 2 does not apply to a person who uses or operates a motor
vehicle for industrial forestry purposes in an area described in
section 45 of Schedule 1.




(7.1)

Section 2 does not apply to a person who uses or operates a motor
vehicle for a commercial purpose other than hunting




(a)

in an area described in section 9 of Schedule 1 and outside of
Junction Sheep Range Provincial Park, or




(b)

in an area described in section 86, 111 or 117 of Schedule 1.




(7.2)

Section 2 does not apply to a person who uses or operates a motor
vehicle for a commercial purpose in the area described in
sections 71 (Finlay) and 133 (Sustut River — Johansen Lake —
Moose Valley) of Schedule 1, provided the motor vehicle stays on
existing mining and logging roads.




(7.3)

Section 2, with respect to trapping furbearing animals only, does not
apply to a person who is authorized to trap under the Act in the areas
described in sections 71 (Finlay), 72 (Upper Flathead), 73 (East
Flathead), 75 (Baribeau Creek), 80 (Garnet Valley), 89 (Clinton
Creek), 107 (Sanca Creek), 108 (Leadville Creek), 109 (Dutch Creek and
Brewer Creek) and 133 (Sustut River — Johansen Lake — Moose Valley) of
Schedule 1.




(7.4)

Section 2 does not apply to a person who uses or operates a motor
vehicle on the industrial road locally known as the Omineca Mining
Road from Akier Lake in the south (56° 26' 00" N,
125° 45' 00" W) to the south shore of the Toodoggone
River in the north via Lawyers Pass (57° 22' 49" N,
127° 15' 03" W) where that road passes above
1 450 m in elevation in the area described in
section 71 (Finlay) of Schedule 1.




(7.5)

Section 2 does not apply to a person who uses or operates a motor
vehicle or electric bicycle for a commercial purpose other than
hunting




(a)

in the area described in section 74 of Schedule 1 during the period
July 1 to November 30 inclusive, or




(b)

in the area described in section 120, 122, 127, 128, 129, 130 or 132
of Schedule 1.




(7.6)

Section 2 does not apply to a member of the Tŝilhqot'in Nation who
uses or operates a motor vehicle or electric bicycle in the area
described in section 118 of Schedule 1 in order to access
Aboriginal title lands.




(7.7)

Section 2 does not apply to a person who uses or operates a motor
vehicle or electric bicycle in the area described in section 118
of Schedule 1 in order to access private property.




(7.8)

Section 2 does not apply to a person who uses or operates a motor
vehicle or electric bicycle in the area described in section 23, 119,
120, 122, 127, 128, 129, 130 or 132 of Schedule 1




(a)

on a highway, or




(b)

on an industrial road used in order to access private property.




(8)

Section 5 does not apply to a person who uses or operates a snowmobile
in an area described in section 2 of Schedule 4 during the period
December 1 to May 1 inclusive.




(9)

Section 7.1 does not apply to a person who uses or operates a
snowmobile for a commercial purpose other than hunting or commercial
back country recreation in the area described in sections 9 (Hart
Ranges), 10 (Upper Fraser/Quesnel Highlands), 11 (Wells
Gray/Thompson), 12 (Revelstoke/Shuswap), 13 (Central Kootenay), 14
(Southeast Kootenay) and 16 (Northern Rockies) of Schedule 7.




(9.1)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 130/2016, App. 4, s. 1 (f).]




(10)

Section 6 does not apply to a person who uses or operates a snowmobile
in the areas described in section 3 of Schedule 5 during the period
December 16 to March 31 for the purpose of transporting
hunters, game, equipment, firearms or supplies to or from a place
where there is wildlife.


[am. B.C. Regs. 218/2000, s. 2; 171/2001, s. 1; 266/2003, s. 1;
477/2004, s. 1; 224/2005, s. 1; 154/2006, s. 1; 169/2007, s. 1;
163/2008, App. 3, s. 1 (a); 425/2008, s. (a); 143/2009, App. 2, s. 1;
313/2009; 175/2010, App. 3, s. 1; 80/2012, App. 6, s. 2; 293/2012,
App. 3, s. 1; 72/2014, App. 3, s. 1; 130/2016, App. 4, s. 1; 313/2016,
s. 1; 115/2018, App. 3, s. 1; 192/2019, App. 2, s. 1; 239/2019, s. 1;
169/2020, App. 5, ss. 6 and 7; 112/2021, App. 3; 224/2021, s. 1;
264/2021, s. 1; 331/2021, s. 1; 157/2022, App. 6, s. 1; 112/2023, App.
3, s. 1.]




Schedule 1


Motor Vehicle Closed Areas


(Section 2)





Premier Ridge




1


Effective year round, in those portions of M.U. 4-21 outlined in
red on the attached Map No. 1-1/20, except that motor vehicles
are permitted




(a)

at all times on private property,




(b)

at all times on roads used in order to access private property,




(c)

at all times on roads shown highlighted in green on that map, and




(d)

during the period May 1 to December 31 inclusive, on roads
shown highlighted in yellow on that map.

[en. B.C. Reg. 169/2020, App. 5, s. 8 (a).]





Repealed




2


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 218/2000, s. 3 (a).]






Spruce Lake Closed Area




3


During the period June 1 to November 30 inclusive, in that
portion of M.U. 3-32 (except the Slim Creek Forest Road and the
Roxey Creek Mining Road indicated in green and designated as open year
round on the attached Map No. 1-3) contained within the following
described boundaries:



Commencing at the point of intersection of the midlines of Gun Creek
and Roxey Creek; thence in a general southwesterly direction along the
midline of Roxey Creek, and a prolongation thereof, to the point of
intersection with the southerly boundary of the watershed of Slim
Creek; thence in a general westerly and northerly direction, along the
southerly and westerly boundaries of the watershed of Slim Creek, to
the point of intersection with the westerly boundary of the watershed
of Gun Creek in the vicinity of Taylor Pass; thence in a general
northeasterly direction along the westerly boundaries of the
watersheds of Gun Creek and Tyaughton Creek to Elbow Pass; thence in a
general easterly direction along the northerly boundary of the
watershed of Tyaughton Creek to the point of intersection with the
westerly boundary of the watershed of Relay Creek; thence in a general
northerly and easterly direction along the westerly and northerly
boundaries of the watershed of Relay Creek to a point due North of
Cardtable Mountain; thence southerly in a straight line to the point
of intersection with the natural boundary of Relay Creek on the south
shore thereof; thence in a general southerly and southwesterly
direction along the southerly boundary of the watershed of Relay Creek
to the point of intersection with the easterly boundary of the
watershed of Tyaughton Creek; thence in a general easterly direction,
along the northerly boundary of the watershed of Tyaughton Creek, to
the point of intersection with the westerly boundary of the watershed
of an unnamed stream which flows southerly into Tyaughton Creek near
Bonanza Creek; thence in a general southerly direction along the
westerly boundary of the watershed of the said stream and a
prolongation thereof to the point of intersection with the midlines of
Tyaughton Creek and Bonanza Creek; thence in a general southwesterly
and southerly direction along the midline of Bonanza Creek and a
prolongation thereof to the point of intersection with the northerly
boundary of the watershed of Eldorado Creek; thence in a general
easterly, southerly and southwesterly direction along the northerly,
easterly and southerly boundaries of the watershed of Eldorado Creek
to the point of intersection with the easterly boundary of the
watershed of Gun Creek; thence southwesterly in a straight line to the
point of commencement.

[am. B.C. Reg. 194/2017, s. 1.]





Mutton Creek




4


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 4-24 being the
watershed of Mutton Creek upstream from the westerly boundary of
Whiteswan Lake Park.






McDougall Creek




5


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 4-1 contained
within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the intersection of the Sage Creek Forest access road
and the northern boundary of Lot 7335, Kootenay Land District, and
proceeding in an easterly direction along the access road to the
western boundary of Lot 7277; thence proceeding northeast in a
straight line for 50 m; thence proceeding due South to Sage Creek;
thence southwesterly along Sage Creek to the access road which joins
with the Sage Creek Forest road; thence proceeding easterly then
northerly along that access road to the point of commencement.






North Galbraith Creek




6


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 4-22 being the
watershed of North Galbraith Creek and that portion of the watershed
of Galbraith Creek south and east of the confluence of North Galbraith
Creek and Galbraith Creek and northerly of an unnamed intermittent
creek which flows westerly into Galbraith Creek from Goat Haven Peak
approximately 2 miles upstream of Tanglefoot Creek.






Pickering Hills




7


Effective year round, in those portions of M.U. 4-22 outlined in
red on the attached Map No. 1-7/20, except that motor vehicles
are permitted




(a)

at all times, on roads shown highlighted in green on that map, and




(b)

during the period June 1 to August 31 inclusive, on roads
shown highlighted in yellow on that map.

[en. B.C. Reg. 169/2020, App. 5, s. 8 (a).]





Lac du Bois — Dewdrop




8


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U.s 3-28 and 3-29 situated
in Kamloops Division of Yale District (except the roads in that area
that are shown highlighted in green on the attached Map No. 1-8)
contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the northwest corner of Section 31, Township 20, Range
19, W6M; thence due South to the natural boundary of Kamloops Lake on
the northerly shore thereof; thence easterly along said natural
boundary to the southwest corner of Hudson Bay Co. Lot A, Group 2,
Lytton Division of Yale District; thence northerly and easterly along
the westerly and northerly boundaries of said Hudson Bay Co. Lot A to
the most westerly west boundary of Lot 250, Kamloops Division of Yale
District; thence northerly, easterly and southerly along the westerly,
northerly and easterly boundaries of said Lot 250 to the northwest
corner of Fractional Legal Subdivision 11 of Section 21, Township 20,
Range 18, W6M; thence easterly and southerly along the northerly and
easterly boundaries of said Fractional Legal Subdivision 11 to the
northerly boundary of aforesaid Lot 250; thence easterly and southerly
along the northerly and easterly boundaries of said Lot 250 to the
southerly boundary of the Fractional Northeast quarter of aforesaid
Section 21; thence easterly along said southerly boundary of the
Fractional Northeast quarter of Section 21 and continuing easterly
along the southerly boundary of the north half of Section 22, Township
20, Range 18, W6M, to the westerly boundary of Section 23, Township
20, Range 18, W6M; thence southerly and easterly along the westerly
and southerly boundaries of said Section 23 to the easterly limit of
Singh Street, as said street is dedicated on Plan 1105; thence due
North to the southerly boundary of the east half of the northeast
quarter of said Section 23; thence westerly and northerly along the
southerly and westerly boundaries of said east half of the northeast
quarter of Section 23 to the southerly boundary of the southeast
quarter of Section 26, Township 20, Range 18, W6M; thence westerly and
northerly along the southerly and westerly boundaries of said
southeast quarter of Section 26 to the northerly limit of a road,
locally known by the names "Batchelor Road" and "Lac du Bois Road";
thence in a general westerly and northerly direction along the
northerly and easterly limit of said road which passes to the east of
Batchelor Lake and Lac du Bois Lake, west of McQueen Lake and south of
Pass Lake to the westerly boundary of Section 32, Township 21, Range
18, W6M; thence southerly along the westerly boundary of said Section
32 to the southwest corner of the southwest quarter thereof; thence
due West to a point due North of the southeast corner of the northwest
quarter of Section 19, Township 21, Range 18, W6M; thence due South to
said corner; thence due West to the westerly boundary of said Section
19; thence southerly along the westerly boundary of Section 19,
Township 21, Range 18, W6M and continuing southerly along the easterly
boundary of Section 13, Township 21, Range 19, W6M, to the southerly
boundary of the north half of said Section 13; thence westerly along
the southerly boundaries of the north halves of Sections 13 and 14,
Township 21, Range 19 W6M, to the easterly limit of a road which lies
west of Tranquille River and runs at this point in a southeasterly
direction, more or less parallel to said river; thence in a general
southeasterly direction along the easterly limit of said road to the
second intersection with the westerly boundary of the southwest
quarter of Section 12, Township 21, Range 19, W6M; thence southerly
along the westerly boundaries of Sections 12 and 1, Township 21, Range
19, W6M, to the southwest corner of said Section 1; thence westerly
along the southerly boundaries of Sections 2 and 3, Township 21, Range
19, W6M, to the southeast corner of the west half of the southwest
quarter of said Section 3; thence northerly and westerly along the
easterly and northerly boundaries of said west half of the southwest
quarter of Section 3 and the north half of Section 4, Township 21,
Range 19, W6M, to the northeast corner of Section 5, Township 21,
Range 29, W6M; thence westerly along the northerly boundary of said
Section 5 to the southwest corner of the east half of the southwest
quarter of Section 8, Township 21, Range 19, W6M; thence due north to
the southerly boundary of the north half of the south half of said
Section 8; thence westerly along the southerly boundaries of the north
halves of the south halves of Sections 8 and 7, Township 21, Range 19,
W6M, to the westerly boundary of said Section 7; thence southerly
along the westerly boundaries of Sections 7 and 6, Township 21, Range
19, W6M, to the northwest corner of Section 31, Township 20, Range 19,
W6M, being the point of commencement.

[am. B.C. Reg. 224/2005, s. 2 (a).]





Junction




9


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 5-14 outlined in
red on the attached Map No. 1-9/04 (except those roads shown in
green and designated open between April 1 and November 30).

[en. B.C. Reg. 477/2004, s. 2 (a).]





Osoyoos Oxbows




10


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 8-1 within the
Osoyoos Oxbows Fish and Wildlife Management Reserve (No. 3401163)
and the Ministry of Forests Grazing Reserve (No. 3401162)
outlined in red on the attached Map No. 1-10 (except the roads
shown highlighted in green on that map).






Dutch Creek — Findlay




11


Effective year round, in those portions of M.U. 4-26 outlined in
red on the attached Map No. 1-11/20, except that motor vehicles
are permitted




(a)

at all times, on roads shown highlighted in green on that map, and




(b)

during the period May 1 to November 30 inclusive, on roads
shown highlighted in yellow on that map.

[en. B.C. Reg. 169/2020, App. 5, s. 8 (a).]





Sheep Mountain




12


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 4-22 outlined in
red on the attached Map No. 1-12/20 (except the roads shown
highlighted in green on that map).

[am. B.C. Reg. 169/2020, App. 5, s. 8 (b).]





China Head Mountain




13


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 3-32 above
1 920 m elevation (except Yalakom-Big Bar Road shown coloured in
green on the attached Map No. 1-13) commencing at a point on the
midline of Pony Valley Creek at 1 920 m elevation; thence in a
general easterly, southerly, westerly, northerly and easterly
direction at 1 920 m elevation to the point of commencement and
including all intervening territory.

[am. B.C. Reg. 130/2016, App. 4, s. 2.]





Nine Mile Ridge




14


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 3-32 above
1 920 m elevation commencing at a point on the midline of
Roderick Creek at 1 920 m elevation; thence in a general
easterly, southerly, westerly, northerly and easterly direction at
1 920 m elevation to the point of commencement.

[am. B.C. Reg. 130/2016, App. 4, s. 2.]





Red Mountain — French Mountain




15


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U.s 3-32 and 5-03 above 1
920 m elevation, commencing at a point due south of the apex of Red
Mountain at 1 920 m elevation; thence in a general westerly,
northerly, easterly, southerly and westerly direction at 1 920 m
elevation to the point of commencement.

[am. B.C. Reg. 130/2016, App. 4, s. 3.]





Hogback Mountain




16


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 3-32 above
1 920 m elevation commencing at a point due north of the
apex of Hogback Mountain at 1 920 m elevation; thence in a
general easterly, southerly, westerly, northerly and easterly
direction at 1 920 m elevation to the point of commencement.

[am. B.C. Reg. 130/2016, App. 4, s. 2.]





Chauncey — Todhunter




17


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 4-23 outlined in red on
the attached Map No. 1-17/22, except that motor vehicles are
permitted




(a)

at all times, on roads shown highlighted in green on that map, and




(b)

during the period June 16 to August 31 inclusive, on roads
shown highlighted in yellow on that map.


[en. B.C. Reg. 169/2020, App. 5, s. 8 (c); am. B.C. Reg. 157/2022,
App. 6, s. 2 (a).]






Powerplant




18


Effective year round, in those portions of M.U. 4-22 outlined in
red on the attached Map No. 1-18/20, except that motor vehicles
are permitted




(a)

at all times, on roads shown highlighted in green on that map, and




(b)

during the period November 1 to May 31 inclusive, on roads
shown highlighted in yellow on that map.

[en. B.C. Reg. 169/2020, App. 5, s. 8 (c).]





Stoddart Creek




19


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 4-25 in the
vicinity of Athalmere, Kootenay Land District (except those roads
shown highlighted in green and designated as open year round on the
attached Map No. 1-19) contained within the following described
boundaries:



Commencing at the southeast corner of District Lot 9199, Kootenay
District, thence easterly along the north boundary of District Lot
288, Kootenay District, to the northeast corner thereof; thence
southerly along the east boundary of District Lot 288, Kootenay
District, to the northwest corner of Lot 1, District Lot 5353,
Kootenay District, Plan 4394; thence easterly, southerly and westerly
along the north, east and south boundaries of said Lot 1, District Lot
5353, Kootenay District, to the northeast corner of Lot B, District
Lot 5353, Kootenay District, Plan 4063; thence southerly in a straight
line to a point on the north boundary of the Shuswap Indian Reserve;
thence easterly and southerly along the north and east boundaries of
said Indian reserve to the northwest corner of District Lot 5343,
Kootenay District; thence easterly in a straight line to the northeast
corner of SL 76; thence southerly and westerly along the easterly and
southerly boundaries of SL 76 to the northeast corner of L 9562;
thence southerly along the easterly boundary of L 9562 to the point of
intersection of said boundary with the centre of Shuswap Creek; thence
easterly and northerly along the centre of Shuswap Creek to its
intersection with the easterly projection of the south boundary of
Kootenay National Park; thence westerly along said projection and said
park boundary to a point on the east boundary of District Lot 9248,
Kootenay District; thence southerly along the east boundaries of
District Lots 9248 and 9199, Kootenay District, to the point of
commencement.






Columbia Lake




20


Effective year round, in those portions of M.U. 4-25 outlined in
red on the attached Map No. 1-20/20, except that motor vehicles
are permitted




(a)

at all times, on roads shown highlighted in green on that map, and




(b)

during the period May 1 to November 30 inclusive, on roads
shown highlighted in yellow on that map.

[en. B.C. Reg. 169/2020, App. 5, s. 8 (c).]





Eureka Peak




21


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 5-15 contained
within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at a point on the midline of Eureka Brook at 1 500 m
elevation; thence in a general southerly direction at 1 500 m
elevation to the point of intersection with the southerly boundary of
the watershed of the easterly tributary flowing westerly into MacKay
River at approximately 120° 32' 00" west longitude and 52° 16' 55"
north latitude; thence in a general easterly direction along the
southerly boundary of the watershed of the said tributary to the point
of intersection with the southerly boundary of the watershed of MacKay
River; thence in a general westerly direction along the southerly
boundary of the watershed of MacKay River to a point due east of a
point at 1 500 m elevation on the midline of the unnamed stream
flowing southerly into Crooked Lake at approximately 120° 36' 30" west
longitude and 52° 14' 00" north latitude; thence due west to the said
point on the said unnamed stream; thence in a general northerly,
easterly and southerly direction at 1 500 m elevation to the point of
commencement.






Repealed




22


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 157/2022, App. 6, s. 2 (b).]






Underdown Creek/Nk'Mip




23


Effective year round, in those portions of M.U. 8-1 outlined in red on
the attached Map No. 1-23/23.


[en. B.C. Reg. 264/2021, s. 2; am. B.C. Reg. 112/2023, App. 3, s. 2
(a).]






Goldie Creek




24


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 4-26 contained
within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at a point on the midline of Goldie Creek at 1 525 m
elevation; thence in a general northerly direction following the 1 525
m elevational contour to the point of intersection with the northerly
boundary of the watershed of Goldie Creek; thence in a general
westerly, southerly, easterly and northerly direction along the
northerly, westerly, southerly and easterly boundaries of the
watershed of Goldie Creek to the point on the easterly boundary of the
watershed of Goldie Creek at 1 525 m elevation; thence in a general
westerly direction following the 1 525 m elevational contour to the
point of commencement.






Repealed




25


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 143/2009, App. 2, s. 2.]






Grave Prairie




26


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 4-23 (except those
roads designated as open year round and shown highlighted in green, or
those roads designated as open May 15 to September 30 and
shown as dashed, or private property shown as unshaded on the attached
Map No. 1-26/04) contained within the following described
boundaries:



Commencing at the northeast corner of D.L. 2316, K.D.; thence more or
less east along an easterly prolongation of the northerly boundary of
D.L. 2316, to the point of intersection with the westerly edge of the
Grave Lake Cottage Access Road; thence southerly following the
westerly edge of said road and the Harmer Creek Access Road to the
point of intersection with the northerly bank of Grave Creek; thence
southwesterly following an imaginary line to the point of intersection
with the northerly edge of the Black Creek logging road; thence
westerly and southerly following the northerly and westerly edge of
said road to its point of intersection with the easterly edge of the
Valley Road; thence due West to the easterly bank of the Elk River;
thence northerly following said bank to its intersection with the
easterly projection of the southerly boundary of D.L. 2242, K.D.;
thence westerly following said projection and the southerly boundary
of D.L. 2242 to the southeast corner of Lot 1 of D.L. 2242, Plan
15777; thence northerly, westerly, and southerly following the
easterly, northerly and westerly boundaries of Lot 1 to the southerly
boundary of D.L. 2242; thence westerly following the southerly
boundary of D.L. 2242 to the point of intersection with the easterly
boundary of Lower Elk Valley Road; thence northerly and westerly
following the easterly and northerly boundary of Lower Elk Valley Road
to the easterly boundary of Highway 43; thence northerly following the
easterly boundary of Highway 43 to the northerly boundary of D.L. 7988
K.D.; thence easterly following the northerly boundary of D.L. 4988 to
the southwest corner of D.L. 7989 K.D.; thence northerly following the
westerly boundary of D.L. 7989 to the point of intersection with the
easterly boundary of Highway 43; thence in a northerly direction to
the point of intersection with the southerly edge of the main Line
Creek Mine Access Road; thence easterly and northerly following the
southerly and easterly edge of said road to its point of intersection
with the westerly edge of the Elk River; thence southerly following
the westerly bank of the Elk River to the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 477/2004, s. 2 (c).]





Bullmoose and Chamberlain Mountains




27


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U.s 7-21 and 7-22 (except
the BP Canada/Ocelot Petroleum West Bullmoose Road designated as open
year round and shown highlighted in green on the attached Map
No. 1-27) contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at a point on the midline of Meikle Creek at 1 524 m
elevation; thence in a general southerly, westerly, northerly and
easterly direction at 1 524 m elevation to the point of commencement
and including all intervening territory.






Skaha Eastside




28


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 8-9 being Lot A and
Lot B of Sublot 48, District Lot 2710, Plan 27801, SDYD and Sublot 48,
District Lot 2710, Plan 1189, SDYD.






Green Mountain Wildlife Management Area




29


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 1-5 as shown on the
attached Map No. 1-27A.

[en. B.C. Reg. 24/2015, App. 1, s. 1.]





Elizabeth Lake




30


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 4-3 in the vicinity
of the City of Cranbrook being District Lot 17, Parcel 1 of DD 5963-I
and Parcel A of District Lot 3912, Plan 4061 K.D.






Corbin Creek




31


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 4-23 outlined in red on
the attached Map No. 1-31/22, except that motor vehicles or electric
bicycles are permitted on those roads shown highlighted in green on
that map.

[en. B.C. Reg. 157/2022, App. 6, s. 2 (c).]





Knife Creek




32


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 5-2 being those
portions of D.L.s 26, 28 and 175, Cariboo Land District, lying east of
Highway 97 right of way, and D. L. 165, Cariboo Land District, as
shown outlined in red on the attached Map No. 1-32 (except that
road shown highlighted in green on the attached Map No. 1-32 and
designated as open year round).






Cherry Creek — Bummers Flats




33


Effective year round, in those portions of M.U.s 4-20 and 4-21
outlined in red on the attached Map No. 1-33/20, except that
motor vehicles are permitted at all times




(a)

on the roads shown highlighted in green on that map, and




(b)

in all of the Canadian Pacific Railway right of way.

[en. B.C. Reg. 169/2020, App. 5, s. 8 (c).]





Wigwam Flats — Mt. Broadwood/Sportsman Ridge




34


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 4-2 outlined in red on
the attached Map No. 1-34/22, except that motor vehicles or electric
bicycles are permitted




(a)

during the period June 15 to 30 inclusive, on roads shown highlighted
in yellow on that map,




(b)

during the period June 15 to August 31 inclusive, on roads shown
highlighted in purple on that map,




(c)

during the periods November 11 to April 30 inclusive, and June 1 to
August 31 inclusive, on roads shown highlighted in orange on that map,
and




(d)

at all times on roads shown highlighted in green on that map.

[en. B.C. Reg. 157/2022, App. 6, s. 2 (d).]





Galton Range




35


Effective year round, in those portions of M.U. 4-2 outlined in red on
the attached Map No. 1-35/22, except that motor vehicles are permitted




(a)

at all times on roads shown highlighted in green on that map,




(b)

during the period September 1 to June 15 inclusive on roads
shown highlighted in yellow on that map, and




(c)

during the periods September 1 to October 21 inclusive and November 11
to June 15 inclusive, on roads shown highlighted in orange on that
map.


[en. B.C. Reg. 169/2020, App. 5, s. 8 (c); am. B.C. Reg. 157/2022,
App. 6, s. 2 (e).]






Linklater Creek




36


Effective year round, in all those portions of M.U. 4-03 outlined
in red on the attached Map No. 1-36, (except those roads
highlighted in a solid green line and designated as open year round).






Weigert Creek




37


Effective year round, in those portions of M.U. 4-23 outlined in
red on the attached Map No. 1-37/20, except that




(a)

motor vehicles are permitted at all times on roads shown highlighted
in green on that map, and




(b)

atvs are permitted during the period July 1 to August 31
inclusive on roads shown highlighted in yellow on that map.

[en. B.C. Reg. 169/2020, App. 5, s. 8 (c).]





Upper Elk Valley — Fording River




38

(1)


Effective year round, in those portions of M.U. 4-23 outlined in red
on the attached Map No. 1-38/22, except that




(a)

motor vehicles are permitted at all times on roads shown highlighted
in green on that map,




(b)

atvs are permitted during the period July 1 to August 31 inclusive on
roads shown highlighted in yellow on that map, and




(c)

snowmobiles are permitted




(i)

during the period December 1 to April 30 inclusive on trails
highlighted in purple on that map, and




(ii)

at all times other than on a trail referred to in subparagraph (i) or
in an area shown highlighted in hatched purple lines on that map.

[en. B.C. Reg. 157/2022, App. 6, s. 2 (f).]





Repealed




39


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 266/2003, s. 2 (b).]






Marsden Face




40


During the period December 1 to April 15 inclusive, in that
portion of M.U. 4-18 shown outlined in red on the attached Map
No. 1-40 and contained within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at the southwest corner of Lot 10427; thence easterly along
the southern boundary of said Lot to the point of intersection with
the northern boundary of the right of way of Highway 3A; thence
easterly along said right of way boundary to the point of intersection
with the western boundary of the right of way of Marsden Road; thence
northerly and easterly along the western and northern boundaries of
the Marsden Road right of way to the point of intersection with the
western boundary of Lot 8256; thence northerly, easterly and southerly
along the western, northern and eastern boundaries of said Lot to the
point of intersection with the natural boundary of the West Arm of
Kootenay Lake, on the northern bank thereof; thence in a general
easterly direction along said natural boundary to the point of
intersection with the western boundary of Lot 605; thence northerly
and easterly along the western and northern boundaries of said Lot to
the point of intersection with the natural boundary of Grohman Creek,
on the western bank thereof; thence in a general northerly direction
along said natural boundary to an unnamed creek flowing easterly into
Grohman Creek, 400 metres northwest of the northwestern corner of Lot
8226; thence westerly to the ridge and height of land; thence
southwesterly to the northeastern corner of Lot 12330; thence
southerly along the eastern boundaries of Lots 12330 and 12329 to the
southeast corner of Lot 12329; thence westerly along the southern
boundaries of Lot 12329 and Lot 8229 to the point of intersection with
the natural boundary of Sproule Creek, on the eastern bank thereof;
thence in a general southerly direction along said natural boundary to
the point of intersection with the northern boundary of Lot 5574;
thence easterly along said northern boundary to the point of
intersection with the western boundary of Lot 10427; thence southerly
along said western boundary to the point of commencement.


[en. B.C. Reg. 218/2000, s. 3 (c); am. B.C. Reg. 194/2017, s. 1.]






Southeast Peace Elevation Closure




41


Effective year round, in those portions of M.U.s 7-19, 7-31, 7-35,
7-36, 7-43, 7-53, 7-57 above 1 400 m elevation and that portion of
M.U. 7-21 above 1 400 m elevation contained within the following
described boundaries:



Commencing at the confluence of Imperial Creek and the Murray River;
thence proceeding downstream on the Murray River to its junction with
Kinuseo Creek; thence proceeding easterly along Kinuseo Creek to the
confluence with Honeymoon Creek; thence upstream along Honeymoon Creek
to the eastern boundary of M.U. 7-21; thence proceeding southerly
and westerly along the east and south boundary of M.U. 7-21 to
the east boundary of M.U. 7-23; thence northerly along the west
boundary of M.U. 7-21 to the height of land between the Sukunka
River and the Hominka River; thence proceeding northeasterly along the
west boundary of M.U. 7-21 to the height of land between Hook
Creek and the Sukunka River; thence proceeding downstream on Hook
Creek to the point of commencement except for the following roads
which are designated open year round: Onion Lake Trail
(M.U. 7-21).


[am. B.C. Regs. 171/2001, s. 2; 266/2003, s. 2 (c).]






Alexander Creek




42


Effective year round, in those portions of M.U. 4-23 outlined in
red on the attached Map No. 1-42/20, except that




(a)

motor vehicles are permitted




(i)

at all times on roads shown highlighted in green on that map,




(ii)

during the period June 16 to March 31 inclusive, on roads
shown highlighted in orange on that map, and




(iii)

during the period December 1 to August 31 inclusive, on
roads shown highlighted in purple on that map,




(b)

atvs are permitted on the roads shown highlighted in yellow on that
map during the period September 1 to November 30 inclusive,
and




(c)

snowmobiles are permitted at all times except in the areas shown
highlighted in hatched purple lines on that map.

[en. B.C. Reg. 169/2020, App. 5, s. 8 (c).]





Granby




43


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U.s 8-14 and 8-15 shown
outlined in red on the attached Map No. 1-43/05 and on the
following roads:



600 m north of the 5 km marker of the Burrell-Young Lake Forest
Service Road; 300 m north of the 2 km marker on Arrow Neck Road, east
of the 22 km marker on Grano Forest Service Road, east of the 8 km
marker on Arthurs Road, 500 m east of the 10 km marker on
Goatskin-Rendall Forest Service Road.

[en. B.C. Reg. 224/2005, s. 2 (c).]





North Churn Creek




44


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 5-03 shown outlined
in red on the attached Map No. 1-44 (except the roads shown
highlighted in green on that map).






Corkscrew Creek




45


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 5-12 known as
Corkscrew Road and shown outlined in red on the attached Map
No. 1-45.






Miledge, Chappell and Lempriere Creeks




46


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 3-44 being above 1
700 m in the watersheds of Miledge, Chappell and Lempriere Creeks
within the area outlined in red on the attached Map No. 1-46/03
(snowmobiles are permitted in area outlined in green between
December 1 and May 31).

[am. B.C. Reg. 266/2003, s. 2 (d).]





Repealed




47


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 218/2000, s. 3 (d).]






Repealed




48


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 157/2022, s. 2 (g).]






Willow Creek Conservation Area




49


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 1-6 as shown on the
attached Map No. 1-48A.

[en. B.C. Reg. 24/2015, App. 1, s. 2.]





Parksville-Qualicum Beach Wildlife Management Area




50


Effective year round, in those portions of M.U. 1-5 and
M.U. 1-6 as shown on the attached Map No. 1-48B.

[en. B.C. Reg. 24/2015, App. 1, s. 3.]





Skull Mountain




51


During the period September 1 to December 10, inclusive, in
that portion of M.U. 3-28 known as the Skull Mountain Special
Resource Management Zone outlined in red on the attached Map
No. 1-51/12 (except for those roads highlighted in green on that
map).


[en. B.C. Reg. 192/2002, s. 1 (c); am. B.C. Regs. 80/2012, App. 6, s.
4; 194/2017, s. 1.]






Repealed




52


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 80/2012, App. 6, s. 5.]






Repealed




53-58


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 477/2004, s. 2 (e).]






Tsatia Mountain




59


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 6-20, commencing at
the intersection of Tsatia Creek and the 1 400 metres elevation
contour; thence following said contour in a generally northerly,
easterly, southerly, westerly and northerly direction to the point of
commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 266/2003, s. 2 (e).]





Klastline Plateau




60


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 6-21 commencing at
the intersection of Quash Creek and the 1 400 metres elevation
contour; thence following said contour in a generally northerly,
easterly, southerly, westerly and northerly direction to the point of
commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 266/2003, s. 2 (e).]





Level Mountain Block




61


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U.s 6-22 and 6-26
commencing at the intersection of Beatty Creek and the 1 400 metres
elevation contour; thence following said contour in a generally
easterly, northerly, westerly, southerly, easterly and northerly
direction to the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 266/2003, s. 2 (e).]





Gnat Pass




62


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 6-19 commencing at
the intersection of Gnat Creek and the 1 400 metres elevation contour;
thence following said contour in a northerly, easterly, southerly,
westerly and northerly direction to the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 266/2003, s. 2 (e).]





Repealed




63


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 477/2004, s. 2 (e).]






Skeena




64


During the period May 1 to November 15 inclusive,




(a)

(TANZILLA BUTTE) in that portion of M.U. 6-19 situated beyond
either side of Middle Range Mining Access Road but within 400 m as
shown in green, commencing at the junction of the Jade/Boulder Mining
Access Road and the Middle Range Mining Access Road; thence southerly
along the Middle Range Mining Access Road to the end point at N 58°
20' 48.36" and W 129° 36' 49.44"; to the end point at N 58° 19' 5.90"
and W 129° 37' 18.84" and to the end point at N 58° 19' 27.42" and W
129° 42' 28.74" as shown on the attached Map No. 1-56/04;




(b)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 72/2014, App. 3, s. 5.]




(c)

(DEASE LAKE) in that portion of M.U. 6-23 situated beyond either
side of Goldpan Road but within 400 m, as shown in green on the
attached Map 1-55/03;




(d)

(HOT LAKES) in that portion of M.U. 6-24 situated beyond either
side of Hot Lakes Road but within 400 m, as shown in green, and
situated beyond either side of Hot Lakes Road but within 10 metres, as
shown in red on the attached Map 1-53/03;




(e)

(CASSIAR) in that portion of M.U. 6-24 situated beyond either
side of the Quartzrock Creek Access Road but within 400 m, as shown in
green, commencing at the junction of Quartzrock Creek and Highway 37;
thence northerly along the Quartzrock Creek Access Road to the
headwaters of Quartzrock Creek at the height of land (at North
Latitude 59° 22' 37.53" and Longitude W 129° 42' 37.97") that
separates the drainage of Quartzrock Creek from the drainage of the
Blue River; then beyond on either side of the access road but within
400 m, as shown in green, and in a generally northerly, westerly and
southerly direction to the end of the access road at North Latitude
59° 19' 34.74" and West Longitude 129° 50' 25.75" and beyond either
side of those side roads but within 10 m, as shown in orange on the
attached Map No. 1-54/04;




(f)

(ADSIT LAKE) in that portion of M.U. 6-24 commencing at North
Latitude 58° 48' 12.36" and West Longitude 130° 8' 56.21", situated
beyond either side of the Adsit Lake Road and beyond either side of
the road leading to Porcupine Lake but within 400 m as shown in green
and including beyond the ends of both roads but within 400 m as shown
in green on the attached Map No. 1-58/05;




(g)

(MIDWAY MINE) in that portion of M.U. 6-24 as shown on the
attached Map No. 1-63/04 and described as follows: Commencing at
the junction of and on either side of Midway Mine Road and the unnamed
trail that runs south towards the Little Rancheria River, locally
known as the Midway Mine Access Trail; thence southerly along either
side of said trail but within 400 m to a point 5 km north of the
Little Rancheria River as shown in green and including beyond the end
of said trail but within 400 m;




(h)

(ONE ACE MTN) in that portion of M.U. 6-24 situated beyond either
side of One Ace Mountain Mining Access Road but within 400 m,
commencing at North Latitude 59° 52' 49.51" and Westerly Longitude
129° 10' 13.0" near the junction of Highway 37; thence generally
westerly along One Ace Mountain Mining Access Road to the end
locations, including beyond the end locations but within 400 m, as
shown in green on attached Map No. 1-64/04.


[en. B.C. Reg. 477/2004, s. 2 (e); am. B.C. Regs. 224/2005, s. 2 (d);
72/2014, App. 3, s. 5.]






Stoyoma Mountain




65


During the period May 1 to November 30 inclusive, in that
portion of M.U.'s 3-13 and 3-14 above the 1 800 metre elevation as
shown on the attached Map No. 1-65/05 (except Cabin Lake Road
shown highlighted in green on that map).

[en. B.C. Reg. 224/2005, s. 2 (e).]





Barnes Lake




66


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 4-23 shown outlined
in red on the attached Map No. 1-66/05 and contained within the
following described boundaries:



Commencing at the Eliot Lake/Barnes Lake road junction located at UTM
coordinate 666670 E 5480740 N (NAD 27); thence due west to the 1 980
metre (6 500 foot) contour line; thence in a southerly direction along
the 1 980 metre (6 500 foot) contour to the southern end of Barnes
Lake; thence northeasterly along the 1 980 metre (6 500 foot) contour
to the ridgeline; thence northwesterly along the ridgeline to the
point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 224/2005, s. 2 (f).]





Dewdrop-Rosseau Creek Wildlife Management Area




67


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 3-29 shown shaded
in green on the attached Map No. 1-67/06 (except roads shown as
dashed lines on that map) and contained within the following described
boundaries:


All those parts of Township 20 and Township 21, Range 20, west of the
Sixth Meridian, Kamloops Division of Yale Land District.

[en. B.C. Reg. 154/2006, s. 2 (c).]





Wigwam River




68


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 4-02 shown outlined
in red on the attached Map No. 1-68/06 (except roads shown as
green on that map) and contained within the following described
boundaries:



Commencing at the intersection of the Wigwam River and Bighorn Creek
(also known as Ram Creek); thence in an easterly and southerly
direction along the height of land between the Wigwam River and the
drainages of Bighorn Creek, Cabin Creek and Couldrey Creek to the
Canada and United States International Boundary; thence westerly along
the International Boundary to the point of intersection of the
International Boundary and the height of land between the Wigwam River
and the drainage of the Kootenay River; thence northerly along the
height of land between/dividing the Wigwam River and the Kootenay
River to the point of intersection of said height of land with the
height of land northwest of the Snowshoe Lake drainage; thence
northeasterly along the height of land between the Snowshoe Lake
drainage and an unnamed tributary of the Wigwam River to its
confluence with the Wigwam River; thence easterly and southerly along
the Wigwam River to the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 154/2006, s. 2 (d).]





Repealed




69


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 169/2007, s. 2 (a).]






Turnagain River




70


During the period May 1 to November 15 inclusive, in that
portion of




(a)

M.U. 6-19 in the watershed of the Tanzilla River that is further
than 400 metres from either side of Jade/Boulder Mining Access Road:



Commencing at the junction of Highway 37 and the Jade/Boulder Mining
Access Road; thence easterly along the Jade/Boulder Mining Access Road
to the height of land (at Caribou Pass) that separates the watershed
of the Turnagain River from the watershed of the Tanzilla River and,




(b)

M.U. 7-52 in the watershed of the Turnagain River upstream from
the westerly boundary of the Muskwa-Kechika Access Management Area
that is further than 400 metres from either side of Jade/Boulder
Mining Access Road:



Commencing at the height of land (at Caribou Pass) that separates the
watershed of the Turnagain River from the watershed of the Tanzilla
River; thence east along said road past Boulder City, Letain,
Wolverine and Elephant Lakes; thence southerly along said road from
Elephant Lake, along Kutcho Creek to Provencher Lake; from Provencher
Lake continuing along said road back to its junction with the
Jade/Boulder Mining Access Road and the point of commencement.


[en. B.C. Reg. 154/2006, s. 2 (f); am. B.C. Reg. 194/2017, s. 2.]






Finlay




71


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U.s 7-38, 7-39 and 7-40
above the 1 450 metre elevation.

[en. B.C. Reg. 154/2006, s. 2 (g).]





Upper Flathead




72


Effective year round in that portion of M.U. 4-1 outlined in red on
the attached Map No. 1-72/22, except that




(a)

at all times, motor vehicles are permitted on roads shown highlighted
in green on that map,




(b)

during the period December 1 to March 31 inclusive, motor
vehicles are permitted on roads shown highlighted in yellow on that
map,




(c)

snowmobiles are permitted during the period November 1 to
May 31 inclusive, and




(d)

during the periods December 1 to April 30 inclusive and June 1 to
August 31 inclusive, motor vehicles or electric bicycles are permitted
on roads shown highlighted in orange on that map.


[en. B.C. Reg. 169/2020, App. 5, s. 8 (c); am. B.C. Regs. 220/2020,
App. 3, s. 1 (b); 157/2022, App. 6, s. 2 (h).]






East Flathead/Akamina Kishinena




73


Effective year round, in those portions of M.U. 4-1 outlined in
red on the attached Map No. 1-73/20, except that




(a)

at all times, motor vehicles are permitted on roads shown highlighted
in green on that map,




(b)

during the period June 7 to September 9 inclusive, motor
vehicles are permitted on roads shown highlighted in yellow on that
map, and




(c)

during the period November 1 to May 31 inclusive,
snowmobiles are permitted on roads shown highlighted in purple on that
map.

[en. B.C. Reg. 169/2020, App. 5, s. 8 (d).]





Texas Creek




74


During the period April 15 to November 30 inclusive, in that portion
of M.U. 3-16 being the watershed of Texas Creek upstream from the
3 km mark on the Texas Creek Forest Service Road.


[en. B.C. Reg. 143/2009, App. 2, s. 4; am. B.C. Regs. 194/2017, s. 1;
224/2021, s. 2.]






Baribeau Creek




75


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 4-20 being the
watershed of Baribeau Creek upstream of the 1 km mark on the Baribeau
Creek Forest Service Road.


[en. B.C. Reg. 143/2009, App. 2, s. 4; am. B.C. Reg. 175/2010, App. 3,
s. 3.]






Sea to Sky Highway




76


During the period April 1 to June 15 inclusive, in those
portions of the Province of British Columbia described below:




(a)

that portion of M.U. 2-6 being the watershed of the Ashlu River
upstream of the bridge crossing over Pikett Creek at the 14 km marker
on the Squamish River/Ashlu Forest Service Road;




(b)

that portion of M.U. 2-6 being the watershed of Sims Creek
upstream of the bridge crossing over Windgate Creek at the 19 km
marker on the Elaho G-Main Road;




(c)

that portion of M.U. 2-9 being the watershed of Sloquet Creek
upstream of the bridge crossing over an unnamed creek located 5 km
north of the bridge crossing over North Sloquet Creek on the Sloquet
Creek Forest Service Road, Branch 01;




(d)

that portion of M.U. 2-11 being the watershed of the Birkenhead
River upstream of the bridge crossing over Tenquille Creek on the
Birkenhead Lake Forest Service Road;




(e)

that portion of M.U. 2-11 being the watershed of Meager Creek
North upstream of the gate located at the 9 km marker on the Lillooet
River Forest Service Road, Branch 03, Meager Branch;




(f)

that portion of M.U. 2-11 being the watershed of Meager Creek
South upstream of the bridge crossing over Hotsprings Creek on the
Lillooet River Forest Service Road;




(g)

that portion of M.U. 2-11 being the watershed of North Creek
upstream of the bridge crossing over Delilah Creek on the North Creek
Road;




(h)

that portion of M.U. 2-11 being the watershed of Phelix Creek
upstream of the junction of the Phelix Creek Road, Branch 02 and the
Blackwater Creek Forest Service Road;




(i)

that portion of M.U. 2-11 being the watershed of Salal Creek
upstream of 3 km north of the junction of the Salal Creek Forest
Service Road and the Lillooet River Forest Service Road, Branch 01;




(j)

that portion of M.U. 2-11 being the watershed of Upper South
Creek upstream of the first bridge crossing over South Creek on the
Lillooet South Forest Service Road, Branch 01;




(k)

that portion of M.U. 3-16 being the watershed of Haylmore Creek
upstream of the bridge crossing over Common Johnny Creek on the
Haylmore Creek Forest Service Road, Branch 01.

[en. B.C. Reg. 115/2018, App. 3, s. 2 (a).]





Ryan River




77


Effective year round that portion of M.U. 2-11 being the
watershed of the Ryan River upstream of the bridge crossing over the
Ryan River at 8 km on the Ryan River Forest Service Road.

[en. B.C. Reg. 175/2010, App. 3, s. 4.]





Repealed




78


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 169/2020, App. 5, s. 8 (d).]






Buckworth Creek




79


During the period September 1 to June 1 inclusive, in that
portion of M.U. 4-7 being the watershed of Buckworth Creek.

[en. B.C. Reg. 175/2010, App. 3, s. 4.]





Garnet Valley




80


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 8-08 outlined in
red on the attached Map No. 1-74/14, except those roads shown as




(a)

dashed lines and designated as open from May 1 to
December 31, and




(b)

highlighted in green and designated as open year round.

[en. B.C. Reg. 72/2014, App. 3, s. 6.]





Holt Creek




81


Effective year round, in those portions of M.U. 4-34 outlined in
red on the attached Map No. 1-81/20.

[en. B.C. Reg. 169/2020, App. 5, s. 8 (e).]





Lang Creek




82


Effective year round, in those portions of M.U. 4-34 outlined in
red on the attached Map No. 1-82/20, except that snowmobiles are
permitted in the area outlined in purple on that map during the period
December 1 to March 31 inclusive.

[en. B.C. Reg. 169/2020, App. 5, s. 8 (e).]





Crater Mountain




83


Effective year round in that portion of M.U. 8-03 outlined in red
on the attached Map No. 1-77A/12 (except for roads indicated in
green and designated as open year round on that map).

[en. B.C. Reg. 293/2012, App. 3, s. 2.]





Placer Mountain




84


Effective year round in that portion of M.U. 8-03 and 8-04
outlined in red on the attached Map No. 1-78/12 (except for roads
indicated in green and designated as open year round on the attached
Map No. 1-78/12).

[en. B.C. Reg. 80/2012, App. 6, s. 6.]





Thompson, Okanagan and Cariboo Alpine




85


Effective year round, in those portions of the Province of British
Columbia that are above 1 700 m elevation and within any of the
following regions, except on existing roads and trails:




(a)

Region 3, the Thompson Region;




(b)

Region 8, the Okanagan Region;




(c)

Region 5, the Cariboo Region, other than Aboriginal title lands within
that region.


[en. B.C. Reg. 72/2014, App. 3, s. 7; am. B.C. Reg. 157/2022, App. 6,
s. 2 (i).]






Itcha Ilgachuz




86


Effective year round in that portion of M.U.s 5-12 and 5-13 shaded in
yellow on the attached Map No. 1-79A/12 except that




(a)

snowmobiles are permitted on trails highlighted in dashed purple or
dashed red between December 15 and April 30,




(b)

all terrain vehicles are permitted on trails highlighted in dashed
purple between August 1 and August 31,




(c)

at all times, motor vehicles are permitted on roads shown highlighted
in dashed yellow on that map, and




(d)

snowmobiles are permitted on trails highlighted in dashed black.


[en. B.C. Reg. 80/2012, App. 6, s. 6; am. B.C. Reg. 293/2012, App. 3,
s. 3.]






Pitt-Addington Marsh Wildlife Management Area




87


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 2-8 consisting of
the Pitt-Addington Marsh Wildlife Management Area as described in the
Schedule to the Wildlife Management Areas Regulation, B.C. Reg.
12/2015.


[en. B.C. Reg. 72/2014, App. 3, s. 8; am. B.C. Reg. 313/2016, s. 2.]






Bert Brink Wildlife Management Area




88


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 2-8 consisting of
the Bert Brink Wildlife Management Area as described in the Schedule
to the Wildlife Management Areas Regulation, B.C. Reg. 12/2015, within
the following described boundaries:



All those parcels of Crown lands, together with all that foreshore or
land covered by water, situated in New Westminster District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official
Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 1 Tube 1994, except
Canadian National Railway Land Titles Office Plans 3886 (5 tube 620)
and 4587, the whole containing approximately 915 hectares (311
hectares of upland and 604 hectares of foreshore).


[en. B.C. Reg. 72/2014, App. 3, s. 8; am. B.C. Reg. 313/2016, s. 3.]






Clinton Creek




89


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 3-31 being the
watershed of Clinton Creek.

[en. B.C. Reg. 72/2014, App. 3, s. 8.]





Wycliffe Conservation Property




90


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 4-20 in the
vicinity of Wycliffe consisting of District Lots 6034, 6667 and 7318.

[en. B.C. Reg. 72/2014, App. 3, s. 8.]





Hoodoos Conservation Property




91


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 4-26 outlined in
red on the attached Map No. 1-80/14, except those roads shown as




(a)

dashed lines and designated as open from September 10 to
November 30, and




(b)

highlighted in green and designated as open year round.

[en. B.C. Reg. 72/2014, App. 3, s. 8.]





Lazo Marsh-North East Comox Wildlife Management Area




92


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 1-6 as shown on the
attached Map No. 1-81.

[en. B.C. Reg. 24/2015, App. 1, s. 4.]





Tofino Mudflats Wildlife Management Area




93


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 1-8 as shown on the
attached Map No. 1-82.


[en. B.C. Reg. 24/2015, App. 1, s. 4; am. B.C. Reg. 95/2015, App. 4.]






Cluxewe Wildlife Management Area




94


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 1-13 as shown on
the attached Map No. 1-83.

[en. B.C. Reg. 24/2015, App. 1, s. 4.]





Quatse Estuary Wildlife Management Area




95


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 1-13 as shown on
the attached Map No. 1-84.

[en. B.C. Reg. 24/2015, App. 1, s. 4.]





Cowichan Estuary Conservation Area




96


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 1-4 as shown on the
attached Map No. 1-85.

[en. B.C. Reg. 24/2015, App. 1, s. 4.]





Somenos Marsh Conservation Area




97


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 1-4 as shown on the
attached Map No. 1-86.

[en. B.C. Reg. 24/2015, App. 1, s. 4.]





Nanaimo River Estuary Conservation Area




98


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 1-5 as shown on the
attached Map No. 1-87.

[en. B.C. Reg. 24/2015, App. 1, s. 4.]





Buttertubs Marsh Conservation Area




99


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 1-5 as shown on the
attached Map No. 1-88.

[en. B.C. Reg. 24/2015, App. 1, s. 4.]





Dudley Marsh Conservation Area




100


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 1-5 as shown on the
attached Map No. 1-89.

[en. B.C. Reg. 24/2015, App. 1, s. 4.]





Coal Creek and Fanny Bay Conservation Area




101


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 1-6 as shown on the
attached Map No. 1-90.

[en. B.C. Reg. 24/2015, App. 1, s. 4.]





Millard Creek Conservation Area




102


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 1-6 as shown on the
attached Map No. 1-91.

[en. B.C. Reg. 24/2015, App. 1, s. 4.]





Salmon River Estuary Conservation Area




103


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 1-10 as shown on
the attached Map No. 1-92.

[en. B.C. Reg. 24/2015, App. 1, s. 4.]





Cayoosh Mountain




104


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 3-16 above 1 920 m
elevation, commencing at a point due north of the apex of Cayoosh
Mountain at 1 920 m elevation; thence in a general easterly,
southerly, westerly, northerly and easterly direction at 1 920 m
elevation to the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 130/2016, App. 4, s. 7.]





Shulaps Mountain




105


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 3-32 above 1 920 m
elevation, commencing at a point due north of the apex of Shulaps
Mountain at 1 920 m elevation; thence in a general easterly,
southerly, westerly, northerly and easterly direction at 1 920 m
elevation to the point of commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 130/2016, App. 4, s. 7.]





Repealed




106


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 313/2016, s. 4.]






Sanca Creek




107


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 4-06 outlined in
red on the attached Map No. 1-95/16, except that, between
June 16 and August 30, motor vehicles are permitted on roads
indicated in dashed black lines on that map.

[en. B.C. Reg. 130/2016, App. 4, s. 7.]





Leadville Creek




108


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 4-06 outlined in
red on the attached Map No. 1-96/16, except that, between
June 16 and August 30, motor vehicles are permitted on roads
indicated in dashed black lines on that map.

[en. B.C. Reg. 130/2016, App. 4, s. 7.]





Dutch Creek and Brewer Creek




109


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 4-26 outlined in red on
the attached Map No. 1-109/22, except that motor vehicles are
permitted




(a)

at all times, on roads shown highlighted in green on that map,




(b)

during the period June 16 to October 15 inclusive, on roads
shown highlighted in yellow on that map, and




(c)

during the periods June 16 to August 31 inclusive and
December 1 to March 31 inclusive, on roads shown highlighted
in purple on that map.


[en. B.C. Reg. 169/2020, App. 5, s. 8 (e); am. B.C. Reg. 157/2022,
App. 6, s. 2 (j).]






Oliver Mountain




110


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 8-01 outlined in
red on the attached Map No. 1-98/16.

[en. B.C. Reg. 130/2016, App. 4, s. 7.]





Lillooet South Forest Service Road




111


During the periods April 1 to June 15 inclusive and
September 16 to November 30 inclusive, in that portion of
M.U. 2-11 being the Lillooet South Forest Service Road, westerly
from the 2 km mark.

[en. B.C. Reg. 115/2018, App. 3, s. 2 (b).]





Tenquille




112


During the period July 15 to October 31 inclusive, in that
portion of M.U. 2-11 being the Birkenhead Lake Forest Service
Road west of the junction with Branch 10 of the Birkenhead Lake Forest
Service Road.

[en. B.C. Reg. 115/2018, App. 3, s. 2 (b).]





Channel Road




113


During the periods March 15 to April 30 inclusive and
August 15 to October 15 inclusive, in that portion of
M.U. 4-6 within the Creston Valley wildlife management area being
the Channel Road northwest of the pullout located approximately at
north latitude 49° 12' 21" and west longitude 116° 35' 41".

[en. B.C. Reg. 115/2018, App. 3, s. 2 (b).]





Telkwa Mountains




114


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 6-09 shown outlined in
red on the attached Map No. 1-99/22, excluding




(a)

the Grizzly Plateau shown in cross-hatched green lines on that map and
designated as open November 1 to April 30 inclusive, and




(b)

the Meat Cache shown in cross-hatched purple lines on that map and
designated as open December 15 to April 1 inclusive.


[en. B.C. Reg. 115/2018, App. 3, s. 2 (b); am. B.C. Reg. 157/2022,
App. 6, s. 2 (k) and (l).]






Joss-Tsuius-Mabel Mountain




115


During the period May 1 to November 30 inclusive, in that
portion of M.U.s 8-23 and 8-24 shown outlined in red on the attached
Map No. 1-100/18 excluding permitted forest service roads.


[en. B.C. Reg. 115/2018, App. 3, s. 2 (b); am. B.C. Reg. 192/2019,
App. 2, s. 2.]






Netalzul Mountain




116


During the period October 1 to April 30 inclusive, in that
portion of M.U. 6-8 above 1 500 m elevation on Netalzul Mountain
outlined in red on the attached Map No. 1-116/20.

[en. B.C. Reg. 169/2020, App. 5, s. 8 (f).]





Trapper Mountain




117


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 7-21 being the
Dickebusch Creek/Trapper Mainline Road outlined in red on the attached
Map No. 1-117/20.

[en. B.C. Reg. 169/2020, App. 5, s. 8 (f).]





Chilko River




118


During the period September 1 to October 31 inclusive, in that portion
of M.U. 5-5 being the road outlined in orange on the attached Map
No. 1-118/21.

[en. B.C. Reg. 224/2021, s. 3.]





Lewis Creek




119


Effective year round, in those portions of M.U. 4-21 outlined in red
on the attached Map No. 1-119/23, except that motor vehicles or
electric bicycles are permitted




(a)

at all times on roads shown highlighted in green on that map, and




(b)

during the period June 1 to August 31 inclusive, on roads shown
highlighted in yellow on that map.


[en. B.C. Reg. 264/2021, s. 3; am. B.C. Reg. 112/2023, App. 3, s. 2
(b).]






Sparks Lake




120

(1)


In those portions of M.U.s 3-28, 3-29 and 3-30 shown in hatched purple
on the attached Map No. 1-120/23,




(a)

during the period November 1 to March 31 inclusive, except that motor
vehicles or electric bicycles are permitted on roads shown highlighted
in green on that map, and




(b)

during the period April 1 to October 31 inclusive, except that motor
vehicles or electric bicycles are permitted on existing roads or
trails.




(2)

Effective year round, in those portions of M.U.s 3-28, 3-29 and 3-30
outlined in red on the attached Map No. 1-120/23, except that motor
vehicles or electric bicycles are permitted on existing roads or
trails.

[en. B.C. Reg. 112/2023, App. 3, s. 2 (c).]





Repealed




121


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 112/2023, App. 3, s. 2 (d).]






Tremont Creek




122

(1)


In those portions of M.U.s 3-18 and 3-19 shown in hatched purple on
the attached Map No. 1-122/23,




(a)

during the period November 1 to March 31 inclusive, except that motor
vehicles or electric bicycles are permitted on roads shown highlighted
in green on that map, and




(b)

during the period April 1 to October 31 inclusive, except that motor
vehicles or electric bicycles are permitted on existing roads or
trails.




(2)

Effective year round, in those portions of M.U.s 3-18 and 3-19
outlined in red on the attached Map No. 1-122/23, except that motor
vehicles or electric bicycles are permitted on existing roads or
trails.

[en. B.C. Reg. 112/2023, App. 3, s. 2 (e).]





Repealed




123-126


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 112/2023, App. 3, s. 2 (d).]






Thomas Creek




127


Effective year round, in those portions of M.U.s 8-1, 8-9 and 8-12
outlined in red on the attached Map No. 1-127/23, except that motor
vehicles or electric bicycles are permitted on existing roads or
trails.

[en. B.C. Reg. 112/2023, App. 3, s. 2 (f).]





Lytton Creek/George Road




128


Effective year round, in those portions of M.U.s 3-13, 3-14, 3-17 and
3-18




(a)

shown in hatched purple on the attached Map No. 1-128/23, except that
motor vehicles or electric bicycles are permitted on roads shown
highlighted in green on that map, and




(b)

outlined in red on the attached Map No. 1-128/23, except that motor
vehicles or electric bicycles are permitted on existing roads or
trails.

[en. B.C. Reg. 112/2023, App. 3, s. 2 (f).]





July Mountain




129


Effective year round, in those portions of M.U.s 3-13 and 8-5 outlined
in red on the attached Map No. 1-129/23, except that motor vehicles or
electric bicycles are permitted on existing roads or trails.

[en. B.C. Reg. 112/2023, App. 3, s. 2 (f).]





White Rock Lake




130

(1)


Effective year round, in those portions of M.U.s 3-12, 3-20, 8-11 and
8-21 outlined in red on the attached Map No. 1-130/23, except that,
subject to subsection (2), motor vehicles or electric bicycles are
permitted on roads shown highlighted in green on that map.




(2)

Motor vehicles or electric bicycles are not permitted in that portion
of the Mowing Machine Forest Service Road shown highlighted in orange
on the attached Map No. 1-130.

[en. B.C. Reg. 112/2023, App. 3, s. 2 (f).]





Repealed




131


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 112/2023, App. 3, s. 2 (d).]






Mckay Creek




132


Effective year round, in those portions of M.U.s 3-17 and 3-32
outlined in red on the attached Map No. 1-132/21, except that motor
vehicles or electric bicycles are permitted on existing roads or
trails.

[en. B.C. Reg. 112/2023, App. 3, s. 2 (f).]





Sustut River — Johansen Lake — Moose Valley




133


Effective year round, in those portions of M.U. 6-18 outlined in red
on the attached Map No. 1-133/22, except that motor vehicles or
electric bicycles are permitted on roads shown highlighted in green on
that map.

[en. B.C. Reg. 157/2022, App. 6, s. 2 (v).]



Schedule 2


Motor Vehicle Hunting Closed Areas


(Section 3)





Repealed




1-3


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 266/2003, s. 3.]






Repealed




4


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 154/2006, s. 3 (a).]






Repealed




5-6


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 266/2003, s. 3.]






Valleau Creek




7


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 5-5 contained
within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at a point on the midline of Butler Creek at 1 920 m
elevation; thence in a general westerly, southerly, easterly and
northerly direction at 1 920 m elevation to the point of commencement.

[am. B.C. Reg. 218/2000, s. 4 (a).]





Repealed




8


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 218/2000, s. 4 (b).]






Kootenay Region




9


During the periods April 1 to June 30 and September 1
to February 28 (February 29 in a leap year) inclusive, in
those portions of the Province of British Columbia described below:




(a)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 175/2010, App. 3, s. 5 (a).]




(b)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 143/2009, App. 2, s. 5 (a).]




(c)

those portions of M.U. 4-22 outlined in red on the attached Map
No. 2-9c/20V2;




(d)

that portion of M.U. 4-24 being the watersheds of the middle fork
of the White River upstream from the first bridge crossing and of Elk
Creek upstream from the White Rock Forestry Access Road;




(e)

that portion of M.U. 4-24 being the drainage of Fenwick Creek;




(f)

that portion of M.U. 4-25 being the drainage of Albert River;




(g)

that portion of M.U. 4-35 being the drainages of Ice River and
the easterly watershed of Beaverfoot River upstream of Ice River;




(h)

that portion of M.U. 4-22 being the watershed of Quinn Creek
upstream of its confluence with Alpine Creek and including the
watershed of Alpine Creek;




(i)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 154/2006, s. 3 (b).]




(j)

that portion of M.U. 4-21 being the easterly headwaters of Coyote
Creek;




(k)

that portion of M.U. 4-24 being the drainage of Blackfoot Creek;




(l)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 130/2016, App. 4, s. 8 (a).]




(m)

those portions of M.U. 4-22 outlined in red on the attached Map
No. 2-9m/20, except that motor vehicles are permitted at all
times on roads shown highlighted in green on that map;




(n)

those portions of M.U. 4-22 being the drainages of Swanson Creek,
Haynes Creek, Big Tower Creek and Little Tower Creek, and all roads
leading off the main Harrison Creek Forest Service Road west of the 67
km marker;




(o)

that portion of M.U. 4-22 being the watershed of Burton Creek
upstream of the 3.5 km marker on the Burton Creek Forest Service Road;




(p)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 175/2010, App. 3, s. 5 (a).]




(q)

that portion of M.U. 4-25 being the drainage of Pedley Creek;




(r)

that portion of M.U. 4-20 being the drainage area of an unnamed
creek flowing into Dewar Creek between Mt. Patrick and Mt. Manson,
upstream of the Dewar Creek Access Road;




(s)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 171/2001, s. 3.]




(t)

that portion of M.U. 4-24 being the watershed of Nilksuka Creek
upstream from the North White River Haul Road;




(u)

that portion of M.U. 4-25 being the watershed of Cross River,
upstream of the 27.3 km marker on the Cross River Road, and all roads
that join with the Cross River Road between the 20.4 km and 27.3 km
markers on that Road, except the first 100 m of road surface measured
from the centre of the Cross River Road;




(v)

that portion of M.U. 4-22 being the watershed of Big Sand Creek
upstream of its confluence with Whimster Creek;




(w)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 224/2005, s. 3 (a).]




(x)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 175/2010, App. 3, s. 5 (a).]




(y)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 224/2005, s. 3 (a).]




(z)

that portion of M.U. 4-20 being the watershed of Buhl Creek
upstream from a point 0.5 km upstream of the Skookumchuck Creek bridge
crossing near the confluence of Buhl Creek with Skookumchuk Creek;




(aa)

that portion of M.U. 4-20 being the watershed of Bradford Creek;




(bb)

that portion of M.U. 4-24 being the watershed of Nine Mile Creek
upstream of the 1 300 m elevation;




(cc)

that portion of M.U. 4-9 being the watershed of Tiger Creek
upstream of the Gopher Creek crossing;




(dd)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 175/2010, App. 3, s. 5 (a).]




(dd.1)

that portion of M.U. 4-18 being the watershed of Sproule Creek
upstream of the point of commencement of the Sproule Creek Forest
Service Road, but not including that portion of the Smallwood Forest
Service Road located within the Sproule Creek watershed;




(ee)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 171/2001, s. 3.]




(ff)

that portion of M.U. 4-32 being the watershed of Barnes Creek
upstream of the 30 km marker;




(gg)

that portion of M.U. 4-25 being the watershed of the north fork
of Dry Creek upstream of the 19 km mark;




(hh)

that portion of M.U. 4-3 being the watershed of Purcell Creek
upstream from the Linklater Creek Main Haul Road;




(ii)

that portion of M.U. 4-3 being the southerly watershed of Teepee
Creek between Jim Creek and Gold Creek and the westerly watershed of
Gold Creek between Teepee Creek and the intersection of Gold Creek
with the southerly boundary of Lot 8282;




(jj) and (kk)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 171/2001, s. 3.]




(ll)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 143/2009, App. 2, s. 5 (a).]




(mm)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 169/2020, App. 5, s. 9 (a) (iii).]




(nn)

that portion of M.U. 4-24 being the watershed of Grave Creek
upstream from its confluence with a small southerly flowing unnamed
tributary of Grave Creek located between Nitta Creek and Nippin Creek;




(oo)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 171/2001, s. 3.]




(pp)

that portion of M.U. 4-25 being the upper watersheds of Madias
Creek and Tatley Creek upstream from the easterly boundary of the
Columbia Lake Indian Reserve;




(qq)

that portion of M.U. 4-20 being the watershed of Skookumchuck
Creek from a point downstream 1 km from its confluence with Greenland
Creek;




(rr)

that portion of M.U. 4-20 being the watershed of Copper Creek
upstream of the Skookumchuck Forest Access Road;




(ss)

that portion of M.U. 4-26 being the Crown Land in the watershed
of Lavington Creek upstream of the northerly boundary of Sublot 137,
Kootenay Land District;




(tt)

that portion of M.U. 4-38 being the watershed of Downie Creek,
including the Sorcerer Creek watershed, upstream of the 15 km sign on
the Downie Creek Forest Service Road;




(uu)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 171/2001, s. 3.]




(vv)

that portion of M.U. 4-22 being the watershed of McDermid Creek.




(ww)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 143/2009, App. 2, s. 5 (a).]




(xx) to (zz)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 171/2001, s. 3.]


[am. B.C. Regs. 218/2000, s. 4 (c); 171/2001, s. 3; 224/2005, s. 3
(a); 154/2006, s. 3 (b); 163/2008, App. 3, s. 1 (f); 143/2009, App. 2,
s. 5; 175/2010, App. 3, s. 5; 80/2012, App. 6, s. 7 (a); 130/2016,
App. 4, s. 8; 313/2016, s. 6; 169/2020, App. 5, s. 9;
220/2020, App. 3, s. 2.]






Repealed




10


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 143/2009, App. 2, s. 6.]






Lake Creek




11


During the period October 20 to December 10 inclusive, in
that portion of M.U. 4-29 being the easterly watershed of the
Lardeau River between the northerly boundaries of D.L.s 7527 and 9378,
Kootenay Land District and the northerly height of land of Lake Creek
including the Lake Creek Watershed.






Cariboo




12


Effective year round, in those portions of the Province of British
Columbia described as follows:




(a) and (b)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 293/2012, App. 3, s. 4.]




(c)

that portion of M.U. 5-8 being the Nusatsum-Noeick Forest Service
Road (B.C. Forest Service Project No. 942-8130) southerly and
westerly from a point 15 km south of its junction with Highway 20;




(d)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 218/2000, s. 4 (d).]




(e)

that portion of M.U. 5-03 being the Gaspard-West Churn Forest
Service Road (3200 Road) southwesterly from the point of intersection
of the midline of the said road and the midline of Stobart Creek (at
the bridge, approximately at the 5 km point);




(f)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 293/2012, App. 3, s. 4.]




(g)

that portion of M.U. 5-03 being the Gaspard-Churn Creek Forest
Service Road (2800 Road) southerly from km 35;




(h)

that portion of M.U. 5-15 being the Spanish No-Name Lake Forest
Service Road (B.C. Forest Service Project No. 7200) northerly and
easterly from the No-Name Lake Forest Service Recreational site to its
end;




(i)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 154/2006, s. 3 (c).]




(j)

that portion of M.U. 5-15 being the Crooked Lake Forest Service
Road (RO 1350 Ministry of Forests Amendment 3 of 94);




(k)

that portion of M.U. 5-12 being the Upper Dean River Main Haul
Road northerly from the 66.5 km mark.


[am. B.C. Regs. 218/2000, s. 4 (d); 171/2001, s. 3; 154/2006, s. 3
(c); 169/2007, s. 3 (a); 163/2008, App. 3, s. 1 (g); 293/2012, App. 3,
s. 4.]






Repealed




13


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 218/2000, s. 4 (e).]






Battlement Ridge




14


During the period September 1 to October 31 inclusive, in
that portion of M.U. 5-04 being the Battlement Ridge Mining Road.






Repealed




15


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 218/2000, s. 4 (e).]






Repealed




16


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 169/2020, App. 5, s. 9 (b).]






Repealed




17


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 72/2014, App. 3, s. 10.]






Garnet Fire




18


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 8-9 contained
within the following described boundaries, including the entire right
of way of the Derenzy Forest Service Road:



Commencing at the northwest corner of S.L. 47; thence southerly along
the eastern boundary of the City of Penticton to the southwest corner
of S.L. 18; thence due east to the western-most portion of the right
of way of the Derenzy Forest Service Road; thence easterly along the
southern boundary of said right of way to the point of intersection
with the western boundary of the right of way of the 201 Forest
Service Road (formerly Okanagan Falls Forest Service Road); thence
northerly along said right of way boundary to the point of
intersection with the southern boundary of the right of way of the
Beaverdell Road; thence westerly along said southern boundary to the
point of intersection with the midline of Ellis Creek; thence in a
general westerly direction along said midline to the point of
intersection with the eastern boundary of the City of Penticton;
thence southerly and westerly along said boundary to the point of
commencement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 72/2014, App. 3, s. 11.]





Repealed




19


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 171/2001, s. 3.]






Beef Trail Creek




20


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 5-12 described as
Beef Trail Road shown outlined in red on the attached Map
No. 2-20.






Groundhog Creek




21


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 5-04 described as
the Groundhog Forest Service Road (FSR) and any side roads, southerly
from the 15.5 km point; and the Rocky Lake-5800 FSR and any side
roads, westerly from the intersection of Rocky Lake-5800 FSR and
Groundhog Creek and shown outlined in red on the attached Map
No. 2-21.

[am. B.C. Reg. 218/2000, s. 4 (f).]





Repealed




22


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 169/2020, App. 5, s. 9 (b).]






Malde Creek




23


During the periods April 1 to June 30 inclusive and
September 1 to November 30 inclusive, in that portion of
M.U. 4-9 that is the drainage area of Malde, Goodeve, Morris and
Shepherd Creeks, and the drainage area of Cambridge Creek upstream of
the 750 metre elevation.

[en. B.C. Reg. 192/2002, s. 2 (a).]





Rialto Creek




24


During the periods April 1 to June 30 inclusive and
September 1 to November 30 inclusive, in that portion of
M.U. 4-15 above the 760 metre contour in the watersheds of Tulip
Creek in the west to Rialto Creek in the east including all watersheds
in between (Syringa, Allendale, Yarrow and several unnamed) and
including areas within Syringa Provincial Park as shown on the
attached Map 2-44/05.

[en. B.C. Reg. 224/2005, s. 3 (b).]





Deer Creek Road




25


During the period September 1 to November 30 inclusive, in
that portion of M.U. 4-15 commencing at approximately 5 km on the
East Fork of Deer Creek Road and at approximately 5 km on the West
Fork of Deer Creek Road; and the watersheds of Gladstone, Hutchison
and Sangrida Creeks and above the 750 metre elevation in the
watersheds of Dawson's, Sunshine and Twobits Creeks.

[en. B.C. Reg. 192/2002, s. 2 (b).]





Repealed




26


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 175/2010, App. 3, s. 6.]






Omineca/Peace




27


Effective year round, in those portions of the Province of British
Columbia described below:




(a)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 154/2006, s. 3 (d).]




(b)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 171/2001, s. 3.]




(c)

that portion of M.U.s 7-21 and 7-22 being the BP Canada/Ocelot
Petroleum, West Bullmoose Road.


[am. B.C. Regs. 171/2001, s. 3; 154/2006, s. 3 (d).]






Lawless-Jacobson Lake FSR




28


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 8-05 being the
Lawless-Jacobson Lake Forest Service Road (B.C. Forest Service Project
No. 5104-05) southeasterly of the point where it crosses Vuich
Creek.






Repealed




29-33


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 266/2003, s. 3.]






Greenstone Mountain Burn




34


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 3-19 described as
the Greenstone Mountain Burn shown outlined in red on the attached Map
No. 2-34 (except the roads shown highlighted in green on that
map).

[en. B.C. Reg. 218/2000, s. 4 (h).]





Grohman Creek




35


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 4-18 shown as
shaded on the attached Map No. 2-35/07.

[en. B.C. Reg. 169/2007, s. 3 (b).]





Repealed




36


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 266/2003, s. 3.]






Kootenay Region




37


During the periods April 1 to June 30 and September 1
to November 30 inclusive, in those portions of the Province of
British Columbia described below:




(a)

that portion of M.U. 4-5 being the watershed of Irishman Creek
upstream of Highway 3/95;




(b)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 130/2016, App. 4, s. 10.]




(c)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 175/2010, App. 3, s. 6.]




(d)

that portion of M.U. 4-4 being




(i)

the western slopes of Mount Mahon,




(ii)

the Manson Creek watershed, and




(iii)

the northerly watershed of Hawkins Creek above the Hawkins Creek Road,
west of an unnamed stream flowing southwesterly into Hawkins Creek
from Mount Mahon approximately 2 km northwest of the confluence of
Canuck Creek and Hawkins Creek;




(e)

that portion of M.U. 4-7 being the upper watershed of Topaz Creek
upstream of the junction with Midgely Mountain Road at 1 425 m
elevation.




(f)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 130/2016, App. 4, s. 10.]




(g)

and (h) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 143/2009, App. 2, s. 6.]




(i)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 175/2010, App. 3, s. 6.]


[en. B.C. Reg. 171/2001, s. 3; am. B.C. Regs. 169/2007, s. 3 (c);
143/2009, App. 2, s. 6; 143/2009, App. 2, s. 6; 175/2010, App. 3, s.
6; 130/2016, App. 4, s. 10; 194/2017, s. 3.]






Repealed




38


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 477/2004, s. 3 (a).]






Morkill Forest Road




39


During the periods of April 15 to June 30 and August 15
to November 30, that portion of M.U.s 7-03 and 7-17 being the
Morkill Forest Service Road.


[en. B.C. Reg. 171/2001, s. 3; am. B.C. Regs. 251/2009, s. 4; 80/2012,
App. 6, s. 7 (b); 130/2016, App. 4, s. 11; 270/2016, App. 2; 115/2018,
App. 3, s. 3 (a).]






Dog Creek




40


During the period September 1 to November 30, inclusive, in
that portion of M.U. 4-14 that is the watershed of Peter Creek
upstream of the Peter Creek bridge and north of Peter Creek and that
portion of the watershed of Faith Creek upstream of the 960 metre
elevation contour and south of Faith Creek, as shown on attached Map
2-40/04.

[en. B.C. Reg. 477/2004, s. 3 (b).]





Repealed




41-42


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 115/2018, App. 3, s. 3 (b).]






White River and Bull River




43


During the period September 1 to June 30 inclusive, in those
portions of M.U.s 4-22, 4-23 and 4-24 outlined in red on the attached
Map No. 2-43/17, except the roads shown highlighted in green on
that map.

[en. B.C. Reg. 194/2017, s. 5.]





Linklater Creek




44


During the period September 1 to November 30 inclusive, in
that portion of M.U. 4-3 outlined in red on the attached Map
No. 2-44/20, except the roads shown highlighted in green on that
map.


[en. B.C. Reg. 194/2017, s. 5; am. B.C. Reg. 169/2020, App. 5, s. 9
(c).]






Lamb Creek




45


During the period September 1 to June 30 inclusive, in that
portion of M.U. 4-5 outlined in red on the attached Map
No. 2-45/17, except the roads shown highlighted in green on that
map.

[en. B.C. Reg. 194/2017, s. 5.]





Repealed




46


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 169/2020, App. 5, s. 9 (d).]






Island Pond




47


During the period September 1 to June 30 inclusive, in that
portion of M.U. 4-21 outlined in red on the attached Map
No. 2-47/17, except the roads shown highlighted in green on that
map.

[en. B.C. Reg. 194/2017, s. 5.]





Repealed




48-49


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 169/2020, App. 5, s. 9 (d).]




Schedule 3


ATV and Snowmobile Closed Areas


(Section 4)





Galloping Hills




1


During the period June 1 to October 31 inclusive, in that
portion of M.U. 8-15 in the Osoyoos Division of Yale Land
District (except the primary roadway accesses to the peak of Mt. Scaia
and to Lightning Peak) contained within the following described
boundaries:



Commencing at the point where the boundaries of Kootenay Land District
and Similkameen and Osoyoos Divisions of Yale Land District join;
thence in a northerly direction along the boundary between Kootenay
Land District and Osoyoos Division of Yale Land District via Gunwad
Mountain, Mount Scaia to Galloping Mountain; thence in a westerly
direction following the height of land to Lightning Peak; thence
following the height of land in a southerly direction to the boundary
between Osoyoos and Similkameen Divisions of Yale Land District;
thence following that boundary east to the point of commencement.






South Nanaimo River




2


During the period September 1 to December 31 inclusive, in
that portion of M.U. 1-05 being the watershed of South Nanaimo
River.






Gaspard-Churn




3


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 5-3 contained
within the following described boundaries:



Commencing at a point on the midline of the Fraser River in the
vicinity of Gang Ranch; thence in a general southerly direction along
the midline of Fraser River to a point approximately 51° 15' 00" north
latitude; thence more or less west in a straight line to the most
adjacent point on the southerly boundary of the watershed of Lone
Cabin Creek; thence in a general westerly direction along the
southerly boundary of the watershed of Lone Cabin Creek to the point
of intersection with the easterly boundary of the watershed of Churn
Creek at the apex of Red Mountain; thence in a general southerly and
westerly direction along the easterly and southerly boundary of the
watershed of Churn Creek to a point due South of Horse Lake; thence
more or less north to the point of intersection with the midline of
Horse Lake; thence in a general northerly direction along the midlines
of Horse Lake and Churn Creek to the point of intersection with the
midline of West Churn Creek; thence in a general westerly direction
along the midline of West Churn Creek approximately 3.75 km to the
point of intersection with the midline of a road construction right of
way leading southerly from L 50 Lillooet Land District; thence in a
general northerly direction along the midline of the said road
construction right of way to the point of intersection with the
midline of the unnamed road leading northerly from Stobart Creek to
Farwell Canyon; thence in a general northerly direction along the
midline of the said unnamed road to the point of intersection with the
midline of Chilcotin River; thence in a general easterly direction
along the midline of Chilcotin River to the point of intersection with
the midline of Fraser River; thence in a general southerly direction
along the midline of Fraser River to the point of commencement.




Schedule 4


ATV and Snowmobile Hunting Closed Areas


(Section 5)





Taseko-Chilko Lake




1


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 5-4 outlined in red on
the attached Map No. 4-1/22.

[en. B.C. Reg. 157/2022, App. 6, s. 3.]





Cariboo




2


Between 4 a.m. and 10 a.m. from September 1 to November 30
inclusive, in those portions of the Province of British Columbia being
M.U.s 5-03, 5-04, 5-05, 5-06 and 5-14.


[am. B.C. Regs. 115/2018, App. 3, s. 4; 169/2020, App. 5, s. 10 (a).]






Chilcotin




3


During the period September 1 to November 30 inclusive, in
M.U.s 5-12 and 5-13.


[en. B.C. Reg. 224/2005, s. 4; am. B.C. Reg. 169/2020, App. 5, s. 10
(b).]




Schedule 5


Snowmobile Hunting Closed Areas


(Section 6)





Southern Interior




1


Effective




(a)

year round, in M.U.s 3-45 and 3-46, and




(b)

April 1 to December 14, in M.U. 3-28.

[en. B.C. Reg. 72/2014, App. 3, s. 12.]





Kootenays




2


During the period April 1 to November 30 inclusive, in M.U.s
4-1 to 4-9 and 4-14 to 4-40.






Skeena




3


Effective year round, in M.U.s 6-04, 6-05, 6-06, 6-08, 6-09, 6-15 and
6-30.

[am. B.C. Reg. 171/2001, s. 4.]





Omineca




4


During the period March 31 to November 30 inclusive, in
M.U.s 7-02 to 7-18, 7-23 to 7-30 and 7-37 to 7-39.

[am. B.C. Reg. 154/2006, s. 4.]





Kakwa Recreation Area




5


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U. 7-18 on the unnamed
access road to Kakwa Recreation Area north of Buchanan Creek.

[en. B.C. Reg. 224/2005, s. 5.]



Schedule 6


ATV Hunting Closed Areas


(Section 7)





Repealed




1


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 224/2005, s. 6 (a).]






Omineca




2


Effective year round, in M.U.s 7-38 and 7-39.






Aylard Creek




3


During the period August 15 to October 30 inclusive, in that
portion of M.U. 7-36 east of Aylard Creek and the unnamed creek
due north of Aylard Creek that flows into the Graham River.






Omineca




4


Between 4:30 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. from August 15 to August 31
inclusive, between 5:30 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. from September 1 to
September 30 inclusive and between 6:30 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. from
October 1 to November 15 inclusive, in M.U.s 7-07 to 7-15.


[en. B.C. Reg. 477/2004, s. 4; am. B.C. Regs. 224/2005, s. 6 (b);
115/2018, App. 3, s. 5.]






Elephant Hills




5


During the period September 1 to December 10 inclusive,




(a)

in M.U.s 3-28, 3-29 and 3-30, and




(b)

in that portion of M.U. 3-17 outlined in red on the attached Map
No. 6-5/20.


[en. B.C. Reg. 177/2017, s. 2; am. B.C. Regs. 194/2017, s. 6;
169/2020, App. 5, s. 11.]




Schedule 7


Snowmobile Closed Areas





Repealed




1-2


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 74/2011, s. 1.]






Repealed




3


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 154/2006, s. 5 (c).]






Repealed




4-8


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 74/2011, s. 1.]






Hart Ranges




9


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U.s 7-03, 7-16, 7-17, 7-18,
7-19, and 7-23 shown in red on the attached Map No. 7-9/11.


[en. B.C. Reg. 425/2008, s. (b); am. B.C. Regs. 143/2009, App. 2, s.
7; 77/2010, App. 3, s. 4; 74/2011, s. 2.]






Upper Fraser/Quesnel Highland




10


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U.s 3-46, 5-02, 5-15, 7-04,
7-05, 7-06 and 7-07 shown in red on the attached Map No. 7-10/13
(except the 20 metre wide corridors shown in green on that map).


[en. B.C. Reg. 425/2008, s. (b); am. B.C. Regs. 143/2009, App. 2, s.
8; 77/2010, App. 3, s. 5; 74/2011, s. 3; 223/2013, App. 2, s. 1.]






Wells Gray/Thompson




11


Effective year round, in those portions of M.U.s 3-36, 3-37, 3-40 to
3-45, 4-39 and 7-02 highlighted in red hatched lines on the attached
Map No. 7-11/23, except that, at all times, snowmobiles are permitted
in the 20-metre wide corridors shown in green on that map.


[en. B.C. Reg. 130/2016, App. 4, s. 12; am. B.C. Regs. 264/2021, s. 4;
112/2023, App. 3, s. 3 (a).]






Revelstoke/Shuswap




12

(1)


Effective year round, in those portions of M.U.s 3-35, 3-36, 3-37,
3-42, 4-38 and 4-39 highlighted in hatched red lines on the attached
Map No. 7-12/23, except that




(a)

at all times, snowmobiles are permitted in the 20-metre wide corridors
shown in green on that map,




(b)

between December 1 and May 31, snowmobiles are permitted in
the 20-metre wide corridors shown in pink on that map in M.U.s 3-41
and 7-2, and




(c)

between November 15 and April 15, snowmobiles are permitted
in the 20-metre wide corridors shown in pink on that map in
M.U. 3-44.




(2)

Between January 1 and April 15, in those portions of M.U.s
4-38 and 4-39 highlighted in cross-hatched pink lines on the attached
Map No. 7-12/23.


[en. B.C. Reg. 130/2016, App. 4, s. 12; am. B.C. Reg. 112/2023, App.
3, s. 3 (b).]






Central Kootenay




13


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U.s 3-35, 3-36, 4-17, 4-28
to 4-31 and 4-33 shown in red on the attached Map No. 7-13/19,
except those trails and roads highlighted in green on that map.


[en. B.C. Reg. 239/2019, s. 2 (a); am. B.C. Reg. 169/2020, App. 5, s.
12.]






Southeast Kootenay




14


Effective year round, in that portion of M.U.s 4-05, 4-06, 4-07, 4-08,
4-19 and 4-20 shown in red on the attached Map No. 7-14/16,
except those trails and roads highlighted in green on that map.

[en. B.C. Reg. 239/2019, s. 2 (a).]





Repealed




15


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 74/2011, s. 1.]






Northern Rockies




16

(1)


Effective year round, in those portions of M.U.s 7-19, 7-21, 7-22,
7-23, 7-30 and 7-31 shown in red on the attached Map No. 7-16/21,
except that, at all times, snowmobiles are permitted in the 20-metre
wide corridor highlighted in green on that map.




(2)

During the period January 15 to September 30 inclusive, in those
portions of M.U. 7-22 shown in orange on the attached Map No. 7-16/21.

[en. B.C. Reg. 331/2021, s. 2.]


Maps


[am. B.C. Regs. 218/2000, ss. 3 (c), 4 (b), (f) and (h) and 5; 171/2001,
ss. 2 and 3; 192/2002, ss. 1 (c) and 3 (b); 266/2003, ss. 2 (d) and (e)
and 4; 477/2004, ss. 2 and 3; 224/2005, ss. 2 (b) to (f), 3 (b) and 7;
154/2006, ss. 2 (b) to (e) and 5; 169/2007, ss. 2 and 3 (b); 163/2008,
App. 3, s. 1 (e); 425/2008, s. (b); 143/2009, App. 2, ss. 3 (b) and 14;
77/2010, App. 3, s. 10; 175/2010, App. 3, s. 2 (b); 74/2011, s. 8;
72/2014, App. 3, ss. 9 and 13; 24/2015, App. 1, s. 5; 68/2015, App. 1;
130/2016, App. 4, ss. 14 and 15; 313/2016, s. 5; 177/2017, s. 3;
194/2017, s. 7; 115/2018, App. 3, ss. 6 and 7; 239/2019, s. 2 (b) and
(c); 169/2020, App. 5, ss. 13 and 14; 220/2020, App. 3, ss. 3 and 4;
264/2021, ss. 5 and 6; 331/2021, s. 3; 157/2022, App. 6, ss. 4 and 5;
112/2023, App. 3, ss. 4 and 5.]



Maps are exempt from publication and may be inspected at the offices
of the Ministry of Forests, 2975 Jutland Road, Victoria, B.C. V8T 5J9,
during regular office hours.



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Wildlife Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 488, ss. 108 and 109.]



