







B.C. Reg. 98/2008

O.C. 281/2008


Deposited May 8, 2008






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Petroleum and Natural Gas Act


Net Profit Royalty Regulation


[Last amended November 1, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 211/2022]






Interpretation




1

(1)


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the

Petroleum and Natural Gas Act

;



"allowed capital cost"

means a capital cost amount, for a producer's interest, where




(a)

the cost has been incurred by the producer,




(b)

eligibility of the cost is consistent with the capital cost
eligibility criteria established by the administrator,




(c)

the cost relates to an approved project, and




(d)

the cost has not been deducted in the determination of a producer
price;



"allowed historical cost"

means an amount, for a producer's interest, equal to the sum of the
following:




(a)

an allowed capital cost or an allowed operating cost if the cost has
been incurred by the producer in the 60 calendar months preceding the
project application month;




(b)

seismic costs that are directly attributable to the project;




(c)

any allowed capital cost or allowed operating cost that has been
incurred by the producer prior to the 60 calendar months preceding the
project application month and is approved by the administrator under
section 2 (g);



"allowed operating cost"

means an operating cost amount, for a producer's interest, for which




(a)

the cost has been incurred by the producer,




(b)

eligibility of the cost is consistent with the operating cost
eligibility criteria established by the administrator,




(c)

the cost relates to an approved project, and




(d)

the cost has not been deducted in the determination of a producer
price;



"closing net allowed cost balance"

means an amount, for a producer's interest, in a project and calendar
month, as at the last day of the calendar month, equal to the sum of
the following:




(a)

the opening net allowed cost balance for the calendar month;




(b)

the net allowed cost for the calendar month;



"force majeure"

means one or more of the following events from the initial occurrence
through the period of duration:




(a)

an act of God or action of a natural element;




(b)

war, revolution, insurrection, riot, disturbance, blockade and other
similar unlawful acts against public order or authority;




(c)

a strike, lockout or other labour disturbance;




(d)

a direction, order, injunction or law made by a court or government
having or purporting to have jurisdiction, except directions, orders
or injunctions of a court or government authority resulting from an
unlawful act of a producer or operator of a project;




(e)

another event of the nature of those events referred to in paragraphs
(a) to (d);



"gross revenue"

means gross revenue calculated under section 5;


"invoice"
means an invoice issued under section 16;



"long term bond rate"

means the monthly rate, stated as a percentage, of the Government of
Canada 10-year benchmark bond yields, as published by the Bank of
Canada in the calendar month in which the rate is being calculated;



"natural gas by-products"

means natural gas by-products as defined in the Petroleum and Natural
Gas Royalty and Freehold Production Tax Regulation;



"net allowed cost"

means an amount, for a producer's interest, for a calendar month that
is




(a)

the first calendar month subsequent to the project approval month,
determined by the following formula:




A + B + C − D






where


A
means the amount of allowed historical cost,


B

means the amount of allowed operating costs incurred during the
month multiplied by a factor of 1.1,



C

means the amount of allowed capital costs incurred during the
month multiplied by a factor of 1.01, and



D
means the amount of gross revenue, or






(b)

the project application month or any calendar month after the project
application month, other than the first calendar month after the
project approval month, determined by the following formula:




A + B − C






where


A

means the amount of allowed operating costs incurred during the
month multiplied by a factor of 1.1,



B

means the amount of allowed capital costs incurred during the
month multiplied by a factor of 1.01, and



C
means the amount of gross revenue;





"net profit royalty project"

or
"project"
means a 3 dimensional area of petroleum and natural gas subsurface
rights as approved by the administrator under section 2 (a);



"net profit royalty project assets"

means any equipment item within the project ring fence that is
directly associated with the production of oil, natural gas or natural
gas by-products;



"net profit royalty well event"

means a completion in a zone where the completion is within the
project;



"net revenue"

means an amount, for a producer's interest, for a calendar month,
equal to the sum of gross revenue less the following amounts:




(a)

allowed capital costs multiplied by a factor of 1.01;




(b)

allowed operating costs multiplied by a factor of 1.1;




(c)

an amount equal to the greater of zero and the opening net allowed
cost balance;




(d)

an amount of allowed capital costs and allowed operating costs
designated by the producer under section 10 (3) to be deducted from
the reclamation and remediation cost bank in the calendar month;



"oil or natural gas by-product transportation allowance"

means a monthly allowance calculated under subsection (2), deducted by
a producer in determining a monthly producer price for oil or natural
gas by-products, to offset the cost of oil or natural gas by-product
pipelines and equipment that are




(a)

owned and operated by the producer,




(b)

located outside the project ring fence, and




(c)

used by the producer to process or deliver oil or natural gas
by-products that the producer owns, produces and sells;



"opening net allowed cost balance"

means an amount, for a producer's interest, in a project and calendar
month, as of the first day of the calendar month, equal to the sum of
the net allowed cost amounts for each calendar month that is after the
project application month and prior to the calendar month;



"operator of a reporting facility"

means the person who is identified as the operator of a reporting
facility in information provided to the collector;



"posted minimum price"

means the posted minimum price as defined in the Petroleum and Natural
Gas Royalty and Freehold Production Tax Regulation;



"pre-payout closing balance"

means an amount, for a producer's interest, as at the last day of a
calendar month, equal to the sum of the following:




(a)

pre-payout opening balance for the calendar month;




(b)

net allowed cost for the calendar month;




(c)

pre-payout return on investment for the calendar month, if any;



"pre-payout opening balance"

means an amount, for a producer's interest, as at the first day of the
calendar month, equal to the sum of the net allowed cost and
pre-payout return on investment amounts for each calendar month that
is subsequent to the project application month and prior to the
calendar month;



"pre-payout return on investment"

means an amount for a producer's interest, in a calendar month,
calculated as follows:




(a)

where the calendar month is not a production month, an amount equal to
zero, or




(b)

where the calendar month is a production month, an amount equal to the
greater of zero and the amount determined by the following formula:




A + B

C





×





2

12






where


A
means the opening net allowed cost balance,


B

means the closing net allowed cost balance, and



C
means the long term bond rate;





"pre-payout tier"

means a series of calendar months, for a producer's interest, equal to
the lesser of




(a)

the series of calendar months between the first calendar month
subsequent to the project approval month and the calendar month which
precedes the calendar month in which the pre-payout closing balance
for a producer's interest in a project becomes less than or equal to
zero, and




(b)

the series of calendar months between the calendar month subsequent to
the project approval month and the calendar month ending 10 years
after the first calendar month in which oil or natural gas is first
produced from a net profit royalty well event in the project;


"producer"
means




(a)

a holder of a location within a project who markets or otherwise
disposes of oil, marketable gas or natural gas by-products that have
been produced by




(i)

the holder of a location in the project, or




(ii)

a person authorized to do so by the holder of a location in the
project, or




(b)

a person authorized by a holder of a location in a project to produce
and market or otherwise dispose of, on behalf of the holder of a
location, oil, marketable gas or natural gas by-products;



"producer price"

means




(a)

for natural gas, a price per 10
3
m
3
of marketable gas volumes available for sale, for a producer's
interest, for a calendar month, equal to the greater of the following:




(i)

the posted minimum price for the project;




(ii)

a price determined by the administrator calculated in accordance with
the method established by order of the administrator under section 2
(e), or




(b)

for oil or natural gas by-products, a price per m
3
of oil or natural gas by-product sales, for a producer's interest and
calendar month, calculated in accordance with section 7;



"producer's interest"

means the producer's reporting interest for reporting royalty to the
government under this regulation for oil and natural gas produced from
net profit royalty well events in a project;



"production month"

, in relation to a project, means a calendar month after the project
approval month in which a quantity of oil, natural gas or water is
produced from a net profit royalty well event within the project;



"project application month"

, in relation to a project, means the calendar month in which a
producer submitted an application for a project to the administrator
under section 2 (a);



"project approval month"

, in relation to a project, means the calendar month in which the
administrator approved the project under section 2 (a) (i);



"project expansion"

, in relation to a project, means an extension of the project ring
fence;



"project reclamation period"

means a series of 36 calendar months for a project, commencing with
the first calendar month after the last calendar month in which a net
profit royalty well event within the project produced oil or
marketable gas;



"project ring fence"

means the two-dimensional surface representation of the project
geographic area as approved by the administrator under section 2 (a);



"reporting facility"

means a building, structure, installation, equipment or appurtenance
that is connected to or associated with the recovery, development,
production, storage, handling, processing, treatment or disposal of
oil, natural gas, natural gas by-products, water or other substances
that are produced from or injected into a well and, for certainty,
includes a battery, gathering system, natural gas processing plant,
meter station, pipeline, injection facility, terminal and treating
plant;



"sales volume"

means the following:




(a)

for oil, the volume sold by a producer during a production month;




(b)

for marketable gas, the volume that is available for sale in a
production month or injected into a storage facility;




(c)

for natural gas by-products, the volume sold by a producer in a
production month;


"tier 1"
means a series of calendar months, for a producer's interest,
commencing with the first calendar month subsequent to the last
calendar month in the pre-payout tier and ending with the calendar
month that precedes the first calendar month that the tier 1 closing
payout balance is less than or equal to zero;



"tier 1 closing payout balance"

means an amount, for a producer's interest, as at the last day of the
calendar month, equal to the sum of the following:




(a)

tier 1 opening payout balance for the calendar month;




(b)

net allowed cost for the calendar month;




(c)

tier 1 return on investment for the calendar month, if any;



"tier 1 opening payout balance"

means an amount, for a producer's interest, as at the first day of the
calendar month, equal to the sum of the net allowed cost and tier 1
return on investment amounts for each calendar month that is
subsequent to the project application month and prior to the calendar
month;



"tier 1 return on investment"

means an amount, for a producer's interest, in a calendar month




(a)

where the month is not a production month, an amount equal to zero,
and




(b)

where the month is a production month, an amount equal to the greater
of zero and an amount determined by the following formula:




A + B

C





×





2

12






where


A
means the opening net allowed cost balance,


B

means the closing net allowed cost balance, and



C

means the sum of the long term bond rate and 25%;





"tier 2"
means a series of calendar months, for a producer's interest,
commencing with the first calendar month after tier 1 and ending with
the calendar month which precedes the first calendar month in which
the tier 2 closing payout balance is less than or equal to zero;



"tier 2 closing payout balance"

means an amount, for a producer's interest, as at the last day of a
calendar month, equal to the sum of the following:




(a)

tier 2 opening payout balance for the calendar month;




(b)

net allowed cost for the calendar month;




(c)

tier 2 return on investment for the calendar month;



"tier 2 opening payout balance"

means an amount, for a producer's interest, as at the first day of a
calendar month, equal to the sum of the net allowed cost and tier 2
return on investment amounts for each calendar month that is
subsequent to the project application month and prior to the calendar
month;



"tier 2 return on investment"

means an amount, for a producer's interest, in a calendar month,
calculated as follows:




(a)

where the calendar month is not a production month, an amount equal to
zero, or




(b)

where the calendar month is a production month, an amount equal to the
greater of zero and the amount determined by the following formula:




A + B

C





×





2

12






where


A
means the opening net allowed cost balance,


B

means the closing net allowed cost balance, and



C

means the sum of the long term bond rate and 100%;





"tier 3"
means a series of calendar months, for a producer's interest,
commencing with the first calendar month after tier 2 and ending in
the calendar month which is the last calendar month in which a net
profit royalty well event in the project produced marketable gas.




(2)

The oil or natural gas by-product transportation allowance is to be
calculated by multiplying the monthly oil or natural gas by-product
sales volume by the annual oil or natural gas by-product
transportation rate per m
3
of sales volume as approved by the collector.




(3)

Words and expressions used but not defined in this regulation have the
same meanings as in the

Petroleum and Natural Gas Act

and the Petroleum and Natural Gas Royalty and Freehold Production Tax
Regulation.


[am. B.C. Regs. 327/2010, s. 1; 194/2018, Sch. 2, s. 1.]






Powers of administrator




2


For the purposes of this regulation, the administrator may do all or
any of the following:




(a)

on application by a producer under section 4, approve




(i)

the project,




(ii)

the net profit royalty on production of oil and natural gas produced
from net profit royalty well events, and




(iii)

the project ring fence;




(b)

on application by a producer, approve a project expansion;




(c)

determine administrative procedures, eligibility criteria, terms,
conditions and deadlines related to the application and approval of a
project;




(d)

determine procedures for the calculation of a net profit royalty;




(e)

establish, by order, the method by which producer prices for
marketable gas are determined;




(f)

determine administrative procedures for reconsiderations under section
18 (2);




(g)

on application by a producer, approve an allowed capital cost or an
allowed operating cost that has been incurred prior to the 60 calendar
months preceding the project application month to be included as an
allowed historical cost if the cost was directly attributable to the
project and was not incurred during the 60 calendar months preceding
the net profit royalty project application month due to force majeure;




(h)

establish, by order, the eligibility criteria for allowed historical
costs, allowed capital costs and allowed operating costs to be
determined in the calculation of a net profit royalty;




(i)

establish, by order, the method by which an annual gas cost allowance
rate per 10
3
m
3
of marketable gas is determined for a producer and project;




(j)

establish, by order, the method by which an oil or natural gas
by-product transportation rate per m
3
is determined for a producer and project;




(k)

establish, by order, the method for calculating a posted minimum price
for a project and calendar month.






Powers of collector




3


For the purposes of this regulation, the collector may do all or any
of the following:




(a)

determine administrative procedures for the calculation, invoicing,
assessment, collection and reporting of a net profit royalty;




(b)

determine administrative procedures for reconsiderations under section
18 (1);




(c)

determine the number of decimal places for all calculations required
under this regulation;




(d)

approve an annual gas cost allowance rate per 10
3
m
3
of raw gas in accordance with the method established by the
administrator under section 2 (i);




(e)

approve an annual oil or by-product transportation rate per m
3
of oil or natural gas by-product sales in accordance with the method
established by the administrator under section 2 (j);




(f)

assess a person for interest and penalties referred to in sections 11
and 13.






Application for net profit royalty




4


A holder of a petroleum lease or drilling licence issued under the Act
may apply to the administrator, in the manner determined by the
administrator, to pay a net profit royalty on production of oil and
natural gas produced from wells drilled on the location of the lease
or licence within a proposed project.

[en. B.C. Reg. 16/2009, s. (a).]





Gross revenue




5

(1)


Gross revenue is an amount, for a producer's interest and calendar
month, equal to the sum of the following:




(a)

the sum of the producer's marketable gas, natural gas by-product and
oil sales values;




(b)

any consideration received by the producer from a loss of revenue
insurance policy directly related to the operations of the project;




(c)

any consideration received by the producer from technology developed
in the project, where the cost of developing the technology has been
included as an allowed capital cost or an allowed operating cost in
the calculation of the producer's closing net allowed cost balance;




(d)

a grant, subsidy or other form of assistance received by the producer
from a government, municipality or other public body.




(2)

Sales value amounts referred to in subsection (1) (a) must be
calculated,




(a)

for marketable gas, as the sales volumes multiplied by the appropriate
producer price, and




(b)

for oil and natural gas by-products, as the produced volumes
multiplied by the appropriate producer price.




(3)

The gross revenue calculated under this section is a number equal to
or greater than zero.

[am. B.C. Reg. 194/2018, Sch. 2, s. 2.]





Net profit royalty calculation




6

(1)


A producer must pay a net profit royalty, for each calendar month in
respect of the producer's interest in oil and natural gas produced
from net profit royalty well events within a project in accordance
with subsection (2).




(2)

The amount of net profit royalty payable by a producer under
subsection (1), for a calendar month that is a calendar month in




(a)

a pre-payout tier, is an amount equal to 2% of gross revenue,




(b)

tier 1, is an amount equal to the greater of 5% of gross revenue and
15% of net revenue,




(c)

tier 2, is an amount equal to the greater of 5% of gross revenue and
20% of net revenue, and




(d)

tier 3, is an amount equal to the greater of 5% of gross revenue and
35% of net revenue.

[am. B.C. Reg. 327/2010, s. 2.]





Producer price for oil and natural gas by-products




7

(1)


The monthly prices to be used for valuing a producer's sales of oil
and natural gas by-products for purposes of calculating gross revenue
are the greater of




(a)

zero, and




(b)

the actual unit selling price


where the actual unit selling price is equal to




(c)

the consideration received by a producer for the disposition of the
oil or natural gas by-products less eligible costs identified in
subsection (3) for transporting the oil and natural gas by-products
from the project ring fence to the point of sale, or




(d)

if the collector has, under subsection (2), fixed a unit selling price
for the oil or natural gas by-products disposed of in a production
month, the deemed value of the oil or natural gas by-products so
disposed of, divided by the corresponding volume of the oil or natural
gas by-products.




(2)

If




(a)

there is no actual unit selling price for the disposition of oil or
natural gas by-products referred to in subsection (1), or




(b)

the consideration received for the disposition of the oil or natural
gas by-products is, in the opinion of the collector, less than the
fair market value,


the collector may fix a producer price for the disposition of the oil
or natural gas by-products at a level not exceeding the highest unit
selling price received by any producer under the Petroleum and Natural
Gas Royalty and Freehold Production Tax Regulation during the calendar
month in which the disposition takes place.




(3)

For the purpose of determining gross revenue from dispositions of oil
and natural gas by-products under subsection (1), the producer may
deduct from the oil and natural gas by-product sales values the
eligible costs incurred by the producer for transporting the oil and
natural gas by-products from the project ring fence to the point of
sale.




(4)

Eligible costs referred to in subsection (3) include




(a)

tariffs charged by a contract carrier and incurred by the producer for
transporting or processing oil or natural gas by-products, but such
costs must relate to activities occurring between the project ring
fence and the point of sale of the oil or natural gas by-products,




(b)

trucking, processing and rail transportation charges incurred by the
producer for transporting or processing oil or natural gas
by-products, but such costs must relate to activities occurring
between the project ring fence and the point of sale of the oil or
natural gas by-products, and




(c)

an oil or natural gas by-product transportation allowance, calculated
by multiplying the monthly oil or natural gas by-product sales volume
by the annual oil or natural gas by-product transportation rate as
approved by the collector,


unless the cost items listed in paragraph (a), (b) or (c) have been
used in establishing the consideration received under subsection (1)
(c).

[am. B.C. Reg. 327/2010, s. 3.]





Royalty payment




8

(1)


On approval of a net profit royalty by the administrator, all
producers must pay royalty under this regulation.




(2)

A person to whom invoices are issued must, by the end of the calendar
month in which the invoices are issued, pay to the government the
total of the invoiced amounts in one of the following manners:




(a)

by an electronic method specified by the collector;




(b)

by a money order or cheque mailed to the government at an address
specified by the collector.




(3)

A payment of an amount to the government under subsection (2) is
deemed not to be paid to the government until,




(a)

if the payment is made directly to the government by an electronic
method, the day of receipt by the government,




(b)

if the payment is made to a savings institution by an electronic
method, the day recorded as the day of receipt by the savings
institution, or




(c)

if the payment is mailed to the government, the day of receipt by the
government.




(3.1)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 194/2018, Sch. 2, s. 3.]




(4)

A producer may deduct an overpayment in accordance with section 16
(7).


[am. B.C. Regs. 327/2010, s. 4; 194/2018, Sch. 2, s. 3.]






Reporting




9

(1)


The information required under subsections (2) to (19) must be
provided to the collector in the form and manner required by the
collector.




(2)

The operator of a reporting facility must, on or before the 21st day
of the calendar month after each production month, provide information
indicating the production, receipt, disposition, use and storage in
that production month of oil, natural gas, natural gas by-products and
water obtained at the reporting facility and, any other information
specified by the collector.




(3)

The operator of a reporting facility must, on or before the 25th day
of the calendar month after each production month, provide information
indicating, for the volumes of marketable gas that the reporting
facility delivers during that production month to be sold or stored
and in respect of which net profit royalty has not previously been
paid, how those volumes are allocated




(a)

to a producer's share of a net profit royalty well event or unitized
operation, or




(b)

if the operator is unable to allocate to a producer's share of a net
profit royalty well event or unitized operation, to the reporting
facility from which the volumes were received.




(4)

The operator of a reporting facility to which volumes of marketable
gas are allocated under subsection (3) (b) must, on or before the
25th day of the calendar month after each production month, provide
information indicating how those volumes are allocated under
subsection (3) (a) or (b).




(5)

The operator of a reporting facility must, on or before the 25th day
of the calendar month after each production month, provide information
indicating, for the volumes of natural gas by-products that the
reporting facility produces during that production month, how those
volumes are allocated




(a)

to a producer's share of a net profit royalty well event or unitized
operation, or




(b)

if the operator is unable to allocate to a producer's share of a net
profit royalty well event or unitized operation, to the reporting
facility from which the volumes were received.




(6)

The operator of a reporting facility to which volumes of natural gas
by-products are allocated under subsection (5) (b) must, on or
before the 25th day of the calendar month after each production month,
provide information indicating how those volumes are allocated under
subsection (5) (a) or (b).




(7)

The operator of a reporting facility that delivers natural gas to a
natural gas processing plant and the operator of a dry gas source
must, on or before the 25th day of the calendar month after each
production month, provide information indicating, for the volumes of
natural gas that the reporting facility delivers or that the dry gas
source disposes of during that production month, how those volumes are
allocated




(a)

to a producer's share of a net profit royalty well event or unitized
operation, or




(b)

if the operator is unable to allocate to a producer's share of a net
profit royalty well event or unitized operation, to the reporting
facility from which the volumes were received.




(8)

The operator of a reporting facility to which volumes of natural gas
are allocated under subsection (7) (b) must, on or before the
25th day of the calendar month after each production month, provide
information indicating how those volumes are allocated under
subsection (7) (a) or (b).




(9)

The operator of a reporting facility must, on or before the 25th day
of the calendar month after each production month, provide information
indicating, for the volumes of marketable gas that are returned to the
reporting facility from a natural gas processing plant or meter
station during that production month, how those volumes are allocated




(a)

to a producer's share of a net profit royalty well event or unitized
operation, or




(b)

if the operator is unable to allocate to a producer's share of a net
profit royalty well event or unitized operation, to the reporting
facility from which the volumes were originally received.




(10)

The operator of a reporting facility to which volumes of marketable
gas are allocated under subsection (9) (b) must, on or before the
25th day of the calendar month after each production month, provide
information indicating how those volumes are allocated under
subsection (9) (a) or (b).




(11)

The operator of a reporting facility that delivers oil or condensate
for sale must, on or before the 21st day of the calendar month after
each production month, provide information indicating, for that
production month, the producer, the purchaser and the shipper of the
oil or condensate and any other information specified by the collector
about the delivery and sale.




(12)

A person who purchases, at a reporting facility, oil or condensate
produced in British Columbia must, on or before the 10th day of the
second calendar month after the calendar month in which the purchase
occurred, provide information identifying the seller and indicating
the volume, price, value, density and sulphur content of the oil or
condensate and any other information specified by the collector about
the oil or condensate.




(13)

A producer of oil from a net profit royalty well event must, on or
before the 10th day of the second calendar month after each production
month, provide information indicating, for each reporting facility at
which the producer had sales of oil produced from a net profit royalty
well event in that production month,




(a)

the volume of oil sold by the producer at that reporting facility in
that production month,




(b)

the sales value of oil sold by the producer at that reporting facility
in that production month,




(c)

the eligible costs that, under section 7 (3), may be deducted for that
production month, and




(d)

any other information specified by the collector.




(14)

A producer of natural gas by-products from a net profit royalty well
event must, on or before the 10th day of the second calendar month
after each production month, provide information indicating, for that
production month, the sales volumes and values of natural gas
by-products produced from each net profit royalty well event in which
the producer has an interest and any other information specified by
the collector.




(15)

The operator of a net profit royalty well event must, on or before the
15th day of the calendar month after the calendar month in which
operations at the net profit royalty well event began or were
suspended, provide information indicating the commencement or
suspension of operations and any other information specified by the
collector.




(16)

The operator of a net profit royalty well event must, on or before the
15th day of the calendar month after the calendar month in which the
net profit royalty well event is connected to a reporting facility or
in which a change in producers' interests in the net profit royalty
well event is effective, provide information indicating the producers'
interests or the change in producers' interests in the natural gas and
oil produced from the net profit royalty well event and any other
information specified by the collector.




(17)

The operator of a unitized operation for which there is a unitization
agreement, under which net profit royalty is determined in relation to
a tract according to production volumes allocated to that tract under
the agreement must, on or before the 15th day of the calendar month
after the calendar month in which there is a change in producers'
interests in the natural gas or oil allocated to a tract, provide
information indicating the change in producers' interests in the tract
and any other information specified by the collector.




(18)

The operator of a project must, on or before the last day of the
second calendar month after the project approval month, provide
information indicating the allowed historical cost incurred by each
producer in respect of the project and any other information specified
by the collector.




(19)

The operator of a project must, on or before the 10th day of the
second calendar month after each production month, provide information
indicating the allowed capital costs and the allowed operating costs
incurred by each producer in respect of the project during the
production month and any other information specified by the collector.




(20)

Subject to subsection (22), a person may amend information provided by
that person under any of subsections (2) to (19) by providing the
amended information to the collector.




(21)

Subject to subsection (22), if a person who provides information under
subsection (2), (15), (16) or (17) becomes aware that the information
is no longer accurate or complete, the person must provide to the
collector amended information that is accurate and complete as
follows:




(a)

in the case of information provided under subsection (2), on or before
the next 21st day of a calendar month, or




(b)

in the case of information provided under subsection (15), (16) or
(17), on or before the next 15th day of a calendar month.




(22)

A person must not provide amended information under subsection (20) or
(21)




(a)

more than 72 months after the month in relation to which the amended
information is being provided,




(b)

in respect of an amount assessed or reassessed under section
16 (2) and invoiced under section 16 (5), or




(c)

in respect of an amount about which the collector has made a decision
under section 18 (1), the administrator has made a decision under
section 18 (2) or the Minister of Finance has made a decision
under section 19 (4).

[en. B.C. Reg. 194/2018, Sch. 2, s. 4.]





Reclamation and remediation cost bank




10

(1)


Each producer that has incurred allowed capital costs and allowed
operating costs for a project during the project reclamation period
has, for that project, a reclamation and remediation cost bank.




(2)

The balance in a producer's reclamation and remediation cost bank for
a project at the end of a calendar month that is within the project
reclamation period is equal to the amount determined by the following
formula:




A + B − C






where


A

means the balance for a producer, if any, in the reclamation and
remediation cost bank for the project at the end of the
immediately preceding calendar month,



B

means an amount, for the calendar month, equal to the sum of a
producer's




(i)

allowed capital costs multiplied by a factor of 1.01, and




(ii)

allowed operating costs multiplied by a factor of 1.10, and



C

means the amount, if any, designated by the producer under
section 10 (3) to be deducted in the calendar month from the
producer's reclamation and remediation cost bank.







(3)

For a calendar month in the project reclamation period, a producer may
designate an amount not greater than A + B under section 10 (2) to be
deducted from the reclamation and remediation cost bank in calculating
net revenue for any calendar month or calendar months that are within
72 calendar months of the calendar month first referred to in this
subsection.






Interest on royalty payments




11

(1)


The annual rate of interest during a quarterly period for penalties,
royalties and unpaid interest is 3.0% above the prime lending rate of
the principal banker to the government on the 15th day of the month
immediately preceding the quarterly period commencing on January 1,
April 1, July 1 and October 1 of each calendar year.




(2)

The annual rate of interest during a quarterly period for overpayments
is 2.0% below the prime lending rate of the principal banker to the
government on the 15th day of the month immediately preceding the
quarterly period commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 and October
1 of each calendar year.




(3)

Interest payable must be




(a)

compounded monthly, and




(b)

calculated on the number of days since the last compounding of
interest or, if no compounding has yet occurred, from the date that
interest is payable.




(4)

At the end of a calendar month, interest must be calculated in
accordance with subsection (3) on an amount owing by a producer for
royalty, unpaid interest or penalty.




(5)

If full payment of an account is not made by the due date shown on an
invoice, but is made within 30 days after a subsequent written request
for payment is issued, the payment of the amount set out in the
written request, without the interest accrued since the date of the
written request, must be accepted in settlement of the account.




(6)

If a producer overpays royalties, interest on the overpayment




(a)

must be calculated in accordance with subsection (3) from the 61st day
after the day the overpayment is received, and




(b)

stops accruing




(i)

on the day that payment of the amount owed is mailed to the producer
or, if delivered to the producer without mailing, the day of delivery,
or




(ii)

on the day that the amount owed is applied to penalties, royalties or
unpaid interest owing by the producer.




(7)

This section does not operate to require the payment of an amount of
interest less than $5.




(8)

The collector may assess at any time interest, calculated in
accordance with this section, on an amount owing for royalty until the
day that an invoice is issued in relation to the amount owing.




(9)

The collector may assess at any time interest, calculated in
accordance with this section, on an amount owing for royalty, unpaid
interest or penalty from the day that an invoice for the amount owing
is due or the day that a notice of assessment is issued in relation to
the amount owing.


[am. B.C. Regs. 327/2010, s. 6; 194/2018, Sch. 2, s. 5.]






Power to demand information




12


The collector or the administrator may, for any purpose related to the
administration or enforcement of this regulation, by notice served
personally or by registered or certified mail, require a producer to
provide, within 30 days or another reasonable time stipulated in the
notice,




(a)

any information or additional information relating to a producer or
project including a report under this regulation, or




(b)

any document.






Penalties




13

(1)


If a person does not, within the required time and in the required
form and manner, provide information required under section 9, 12 or
16 (2) (a), the person may be assessed a penalty of $500 for
each month or part of a month that the failure to provide the
information continues, or for any lesser number of months that the
collector considers appropriate.




(2)

If a person provides information under section 9, 12 or
16 (2) (a) that contains any of the following data
discrepancies and the discrepancies are not corrected by the date the
person is required to provide the information, the person may be
assessed a penalty of $100 in respect of each discrepancy for each
month or part of a month that the failure to correct the discrepancy
continues, or for any lesser number of months that the collector
considers appropriate:




(a)

an imbalance error;




(b)

incomplete or invalid information;




(c)

a metering difference error.

[en. B.C. Reg. 194/2018, Sch. 2, s. 6.]





Producer change of address




14


A producer holder must notify the collector and administrator of a
change in its permanent address.






Service of notices




15

(1)


If service of a request, notice, demand for information or other
document is to be made under this regulation on a producer, it may be
served




(a)

in person, or




(b)

by mailing it by registered mail to the last known address of the
producer.




(2)

If service is by registered mail, the request, notice, demand for
information or other document is deemed to be served on the eighth day
after mailing.




(3)

This section does not apply if a court orders another mode of service.






Notice of assessment




16

(1)


After receiving information provided in respect of a producer under
section 9 (2) to (19) for a production month, the collector must,
on or about the 23rd day of the second calendar month after the
production month, issue an invoice to the producer showing, for the
production month, the amount of net profit royalty that is payable to
the government in respect of the oil, marketable gas or natural gas
by-products to which the information applies.




(1.1)

After receiving amended information provided in respect of a producer
under section 9 (20) or (21), the collector must issue an amended
invoice to the producer showing, for the production month, the amount
of net profit royalty, interest and penalty that is payable to the
government in respect of the oil, marketable gas or natural gas
by-products to which the amended information applies.




(2)

If the collector, on examining information or amended information
provided under section 9, disagrees with it or calculations in it, the
collector may do either or both of the following:




(a)

request the person who provided the information or amended information
to provide, on or before a date specified by the collector or, if no
date is specified, within 30 days after the date of the request,
information that the collector believes is correct;




(b)

assess or reassess net profit royalty, interest and penalty payable to
the government based on the information that the collector believes is
correct.




(3)

The collector may make the assessment or reassessment referred to in
subsection (2)




(a)

at any time, if the producer has made a misrepresentation or committed
fraud in making the report or supplying information under this
regulation, or




(b)

in any other case, not more than 84 months after the last day of the
production month to which the assessment or reassessment relates.




(4)

The notice of assessment must contain the determination made by the
collector of the amount of net profit royalty, interest and penalty
payable and the due date for payment of that amount.




(5)

On assessing or reassessing the net profit royalty, interest or
penalty payable by a producer who has not provided information or has
provided information or calculations with which the collector
disagrees, the collector must issue to the producer an invoice
containing a notice of assessment.




(6)

Evidence that an invoice has been issued under this section is proof,
in the absence of evidence to the contrary, that the amount assessed
is due and owing, and the onus of proving otherwise is on the person
liable to pay the amount assessed.




(7)

In the case of an overpayment, the producer may deduct from net profit
royalty payments due after the date of the notice of assessment the
amount of the overpayment indicated in the notice of assessment.


[am. B.C. Regs. 327/2010, s. 8; 194/2018, Sch. 2, s. 7.]






Requirement to maintain records




17


Every producer required by section 76 (1) of the Act to keep records
must retain the records, for a particular calendar year, for the
longer of the following in respect of a calendar year:




(a)

7 years after the end of a calendar year for which a report has been
filed;




(b)

2 years after the date of the producer's receipt of a notice of
assessment under this regulation.






Producer liability




17.1

(1)


A producer's liability for net profit royalty, interest or a penalty
due under the Act and this regulation is not affected by reason of a
prior incorrect assessment or the absence of an assessment.




(2)

Net profit royalties, interest and penalties are payable whether or
not an objection to an assessment is made under section 18 or a notice
of appeal is given under section 19.




(3)

Subject to being amended, changed or varied on appeal or by
reassessment, an invoice issued or a penalty imposed under this
regulation is valid and binding despite any error, defect or omission
in the invoice or penalty or in procedure.


[en. B.C. Reg. 327/2010, s. 9; am. B.C. Reg. 194/2018, Sch. 2, s. 8.]






Reconsideration by collector or administrator




18

(1)


The collector may reconsider or vary an invoice for net profit royalty
or penalty on the request of a producer who objects in writing to the
invoiced amount.




(2)

The administrator may reconsider or vary a producer price on the
request of a producer who objects in writing to the producer price as
determined.


[am. B.C. Regs. 327/2010, s. 10; 194/2018, Sch. 2, s. 9.]






Appeals




19

(1)


An appeal to the Minister of Finance lies from a decision of the
collector under section 18 (1) or a decision of the administrator
under section 18 (2).




(2)

Written notice of the appeal must be given to the Minister of Finance
within 90 days after the date of the decision.




(3)

The appellant must set out in the notice of appeal a statement of all
material facts and the reasons in support of the appeal.




(4)

On receiving the notice of appeal, the Minister of Finance must




(a)

consider the matter,




(b)

affirm, amend or reverse the decision of the collector or the
administrator, and




(c)

promptly notify the appellant in writing of the result of the appeal.




(5)

The Minister of Finance may




(a)

delegate, in writing, the exercise of any power or performance of any
duty conferred or imposed on the Minister of Finance under this
section to an employee of the ministry of the Minister of Finance, and




(b)

provide, in making a delegation, directions that are binding on the
delegate respecting the exercise of the power or the performance of
the duty.




(6)

A delegation under subsection (5) may be made by name or by
designation of the office.


[en. B.C. Reg. 194/2018, Sch. 2, s. 10; am. B.C. Regs. 239/2020, Sch.
3; 211/2022, Sch. 3, s. 1.]






Notice of appeal




19.1

(1)


The date on which a notice of appeal is given to the Minister of
Finance under section 19 (2) is the date it is received by the
Minister of Finance.




(2)

A notice of appeal is conclusively deemed to have been given to the
Minister of Finance if it is received at a location and by a method
specified by the Minister of Finance.

[en. B.C. Reg. 211/2022, Sch. 3, s. 2.]





Successor requirements




20

(1)


A transferor must, before an intended transfer of all or a portion of
an interest in a project, give notice to the administrator of the
intended transfer.




(2)

A notice under subsection (1) must




(a)

be in writing,




(b)

state the effective date of the proposed transfer of the interest in
the project,




(c)

state the identity of the transferee, and




(d)

state the exact portion of the interest in the project that is to be
retained by the transferor and the interest in the project that is
being transferred to the transferee.




(3)

The transferor and transferee of an interest in a project are jointly
and severally liable for net profit royalty payable under sections 6
and 8 as of the effective date of the transfer of an interest in a
project and until that net profit royalty is paid.




(4)

The transferee is liable for and must pay all net profit royalty on an
interest in a lease or licence that is transferred after the effective
date of the transfer.




(5)

The account balances of a transferor that are necessary to calculate
net profit royalty payable must, upon the transfer of that
transferor's interest in a project, become the account balances of the
transferee of that interest in the project.




(6)

Where only a portion of an interest in a project is transferred, only
the portion of the account balances related to the transferred
interest in the project become the property of the transferee.




(7)

The consideration paid for the transfer of a producer's interest is
not considered to be a royalty cost of the transferee or gross revenue
to the transferor.




(8)

This section applies to a transfer of an interest in a project
notwithstanding that the interest in the project may be transferred by
a receiver, liquidator, administrator, executor or other like person,
other than a trustee in bankruptcy.




(9)

In this section




(a)

"transfer"
includes a transfer by way of sale, assignment, conveyance or other
disposition by a transferor, including a transfer that is a part of a
consolidation, merger, dissolution or reorganization involving the
transferor but does not include the granting of a security interest;




(b)

"transferee"
means a producer to whom all or a part of an interest in a project has
been transferred;




(c)

"transferor"
means a producer who transfers all or a part of its interest in a
project to another producer or intended producer.




(10)

The account balances referred to in subsection (5) include:




(a)

pre-payout closing balance for the calendar month preceding the
effective date of the transfer;




(b)

tier 1 closing payout balance for the calendar month preceding the
effective date of the transfer;




(c)

tier 2 closing payout balance for the calendar month preceding the
effective date of the transfer;




(d)

closing net allowed cost balance for the calendar month preceding the
effective date of the transfer.




(11)

A producer must provide reasonable notice to the minister of a change
of name, amalgamation or other change that involves the producer's
position in a project but does not otherwise qualify as a transfer
under subsection (9) (a).

[am. B.C. Regs. 16/2009, s. (b); 327/2010, s. 11.]





Transition — interest on royalty payments and penalties




21

(1)


Section 11 (2) to (6) applies to interest calculated for the first
time on or after November 1, 2018 in respect of an amount, whether or
not the amount was payable before that day.




(2)

Section 13, as it read immediately before November 1, 2018, applies to
failures to file that began before that day and continue on or after
that day.

[en. B.C. Reg. 194/2018, Sch. 2, s. 11.]





Transition — notice of appeal




22


This regulation, as it read on October 31, 2022, continues to apply in
relation to a notice of appeal under section 19 from a decision of the
collector or a decision of the administrator if the decision is dated
on or before October 31, 2022.

[en. B.C. Reg. 211/2022, Sch. 3, s. 2.]



Schedule


Net Profit Schedule of Revenue and Cost Calculations


Calculation of Monthly Net Allowed Cost

(Greater of zero and net allowed cost calculation)
Historical Cost (1st year only)
+ Allowed Capital Cost × 1.01
+ Allowed Operating Cost × 1.10
– Gross Revenue




=
Monthly Net Allowed Cost





Calculation of Monthly Net Revenue

Gross Revenue
– Allowed Capital Cost × 1.01
– Allowed Operating Cost × 1.10
– Opening Net Allowed Cost Balance, if positive

– Designated Amount of Reclamation & Remediation Costs





= Monthly Net Revenue





Calculation of Closing Net Allowed Cost Balance

Opening Net Allowed Cost Balance
+ Monthly Net Allowed Cost




= Closing Net Allowed Cost Balance






Calculation of Annual Return on Investment (Pre-payout Tier, Tier 1
and Tier 2)



(Opening Net Allowed Cost Balance + Closing Net Allowed Cost Balance) /
2 x

long term bond rate for the pre-payout tier, or

the sum of the long term bond rate and 25%, for tier 1, or


the sum of the long term bond rate and 100% for tier 2.





= Monthly Return on Investment






Calculation of Closing Payout Balance (Pre-payout Tier, Tier 1 and
Tier 2)


Opening Payout Balance for Applicable Tier
+ Monthly Net Allowed Cost
+ Monthly Return on Investment for Applicable Tier




= Closing Payout Balance




Notes:

(1) Historical Allowed Cost is allowed once only, in first month of
royalty calculation for the project.


(2) In the first year of royalty calculation for the project,
Cumulative Net Allowed Costs = Net Allowed Costs


(3) In the first year of royalty calculation for the project, there
is no cumulative payout balance for the preceding year.


(4) Allowed capital cost, allowed operating cost and gross revenue
will be numbers equal to or greater than zero.


[Provisions of the

Petroleum and Natural Gas Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 361, ss. 73, 74 and 133.]



