







B.C. Reg. 278/2018

O.C. 793/2018


Deposited December 14, 2018

effective January 15, 2019





This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)




Pill Press and Related Equipment Control Act



Pill Press and Related Equipment

Control Regulation





Part 1 — Interpretation





Definitions




1


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the

Pill Press and Related Equipment Control Act

;



"drug establishment licence"

means an establishment licence issued under the Food and Drug
Regulations (Canada);



"drug establishment licence number"

means the unique alphanumeric identifier assigned to a drug
establishment licence;



"equipment registry number"

means the unique alphanumeric identifier assigned by the registrar to
a piece of controlled equipment for the purpose of a registry
established under section 14 (1) (a) of the Act;


"fabricator"
means a person who holds a drug establishment licence or a site
licence;



"registration number"

means the unique alphanumeric identifier assigned to a registration;



"site licence"

means a site licence issued under the Natural Health Products
Regulations (Canada);



"site licence number"

means the unique alphanumeric identifier assigned to a site licence;



"waiver number"

means the unique alphanumeric identifier assigned to a waiver.






Controlled equipment




2


A pharmaceutical mixer or blender is not controlled equipment if the
pharmaceutical mixer or blender is used to make tablets or capsules




(a)

in the course of compounding a drug by a person authorized to do so
under the

Health Professions Act

or the

Pharmacy Operations and Drug Scheduling Act

, or




(b)

by an individual for personal use.




Part 2 — Dealing with Controlled Equipment





Ownership and possession if licence suspended or cancelled




3

(1)


If the drug establishment licence or site licence of a fabricator is
suspended, the fabricator is authorized, during the period of the
suspension, to continue to own and possess all controlled equipment
that was owned or possessed by the fabricator on the suspension date.




(2)

If a drug establishment licence or site licence is cancelled, the
former fabricator is authorized to continue to own and possess all
controlled equipment that was owned or possessed by the former
fabricator on the cancellation date as follows:




(a)

if the former fabricator applies for a waiver or registration within
30 days after cancellation, the former fabricator may own and possess
the controlled equipment until




(i)

the waiver or registration is granted, and afterwards in accordance
with the limits and conditions of the waiver or registration, or




(ii)

the waiver or registration is refused, and afterwards until the date
set by the registrar as the date by which the controlled equipment
must be destroyed, as required by the registrar;




(b)

if the former fabricator does not apply for a waiver or registration
within 30 days after cancellation, on the expiry of that 30-day
period.






Information to be collected on sale




4

(1)


An authorized seller must collect from an intended purchaser who is
not an individual the following information respecting the purchaser's
identity:




(a)

the name under which the purchaser is registered as a corporation or
other body under an enactment of any jurisdiction, and the
registration number;




(b)

the name under which and the civic address at which the purchaser
ordinarily carries on business;




(c)

the legal name, business telephone number and email address of the
person responsible for making the purchase on behalf of the purchaser.




(2)

An authorized seller must collect from an intended purchaser who is an
individual the following information respecting the purchaser's
identity:




(a)

the purchaser's legal name, civic address, telephone number and email
address;




(b)

the unique alphanumeric identifier assigned to a record of identity
that




(i)

is issued to the purchaser by a government,




(ii)

shows the purchaser's photograph and legal name, and




(iii)

is not expired;




(c)

a description of the type of record referred to in paragraph (b).




(3)

An authorized seller must collect from an intended purchaser who is an
authorized owner the information set out in one of the following
paragraphs, as applicable, respecting the purchaser's authority to own
controlled equipment:




(a)

if the purchaser is a fabricator,




(i)

the name shown on the fabricator's drug establishment licence or site
licence, and




(ii)

the fabricator's drug establishment licence number or site licence
number and the licence expiry date;




(b)

if the purchaser holds a waiver, the purchaser's legal name and waiver
number;




(c)

if the purchaser holds a registration, the purchaser's legal name and
registration number.




(4)

For the purposes of subsection (3) (a), if a purchaser holds both a
drug establishment licence and a site licence, the authorized seller
must collect the information referred to in that paragraph in respect
of both licences.






Payment for sale




5

(1)


In this section:


"cash card"
means a card or other device that




(a)

can be used to obtain cash or acquire goods or services, and




(b)

is issued by a payday lender within the meaning of the

Business Practices and Consumer Protection Act

to the borrower of a payday loan within the meaning of that Act
instead of advancing cash or transferring money to the borrower or to
the order of the borrower;



"prepaid purchase card"

means




(a)

a card, written certificate or other voucher or device with a monetary
value that is issued or sold to a person in exchange for the future
supply of goods or services to a consumer, or




(b)

a gift card and gift certificate;



"virtual currency"

means a digital representation of value that is used as a medium of
exchange, unit of account or store of value, but is not legal tender
and is not regulated.




(2)

An authorized seller must not receive, as any part of the
consideration for the sale of controlled equipment, a cash card,
prepaid purchase card or virtual currency.






Record of sale




6


An authorized seller must include in a record of sale made for the
purposes of section 4 (5) of the Act all of the following:




(a)

the date on which the sale was made;




(b)

a description of the controlled equipment that was sold, including the
type of equipment and its make, model and serial number;




(c)

the authorized seller's registration number;




(d)

the method of payment used to purchase the controlled equipment;




(e)

if known,




(i)

the civic address at which the purchaser will ordinarily store the
controlled equipment, and




(ii)

whether storage will be in a dwelling house.






Information to be given on acquisition




7


An authorized owner must include all of the following in a notice
given to the registrar under section 5 (2) (a) and (4) (c) of the Act:




(a)

the information described in section 4 of this regulation that applies
to the authorized owner, as if the authorized owner was a purchaser
under that section;




(b)

a description of the controlled equipment, including the type of
equipment and its make, model and serial number;




(c)

if the controlled equipment was acquired from an authorized seller,
the authorized seller's legal name and registration number;




(d)

if the controlled equipment was not acquired from an authorized
seller, the seller's legal name and civic address;




(e)

the date on which the authorized owner acquired the controlled
equipment, if that date is on or after January 15, 2019;




(f)

the civic address at which the controlled equipment will ordinarily be
stored.






Information to be given on change of storage location




8


An authorized owner must include all of the following in a notice
given to the registrar under section 5 (2) (b) and (4) (c) of the Act:




(a)

the equipment registry number that applies to the controlled
equipment;




(b)

the civic addresses at which the controlled equipment was formerly
ordinarily stored and is to be ordinarily stored;




(c)

the date on which the controlled equipment was moved between the
addresses referred to in paragraph (b).






Information to be given on loss, theft or destruction




9


An authorized owner must include all of the following in a notice
given to the registrar under section 5 (2) (c) and (4) (c) of the Act:




(a)

the equipment registry number that applies to the controlled
equipment;




(b)

a description of the controlled equipment, including the type of
equipment and its make, model and serial number;




(c)

the date on which, and the circumstances under which, the controlled
equipment was lost, stolen or destroyed;




(d)

the police file number, if any.






Information to be given on licence suspension or cancellation




10


An authorized owner must include all of the following in a notice
given to the registrar under section 5 (2) (f) and (4) (c) of the Act:




(a)

the name shown on the fabricator's, or former fabricator's, drug
establishment licence or site licence, as applicable;




(b)

the drug establishment licence number or site licence number, as
applicable, of the suspended or cancelled drug establishment licence
or site licence;




(c)

if the drug establishment licence or site licence was cancelled and
replaced for administrative reasons only, the drug establishment
licence number or site licence number, and the licence expiry date, of
the replaced drug establishment licence or site licence.






Information to be given on charge or conviction




11


An authorized seller must include all of the following in a notice
given to the registrar under section 5 (2) (g) and (4) (c) of the Act:




(a)

the authorized seller's legal name and registration number;




(b)

the name and provision of the enactment under which the authorized
seller was charged or convicted;




(c)

the date on which the charge was laid or the conviction entered, as
applicable.






Exemption for moulds and punches




12


An authorized owner of a mould or punch described in paragraph (b) of
the definition of "controlled equipment" is exempt from the
notification requirement imposed under section 5 (2) (a), (b) and (c)
of the Act.






Period for which records must be kept




13

(1)


An authorized owner must keep a record referred to in section 6 (1)
(c) of the Act




(a)

for the period during which the authorized owner owns or possesses the
controlled equipment that is the subject of the record, and




(b)

for at least 2 years after the date on which the authorized owner no
longer owns or possesses the controlled equipment.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), an authorized seller must keep a
record made under section 4 (5) (a) of the Act for at least 2 years
after the date on which the authorized seller receives confirmation
from the registrar that the registrar has received all records and
information required under section 4 (5) (c) of the Act.




Part 3 — Other Matters





Checks of registration applicants




14


The following are prescribed for the purposes of section 7 (4) (a) of
the Act:




(a)

a criminal record check;




(b)

a police information check;




(c)

a correctional service information check.






Applications to court




15

(1)


An application for a warrant under section 21 of the Act may be made
by submitting information on oath in the form set out as Form 1 of the
Schedule.




(2)

A warrant may be issued in the form set out as




(a)

Form 2 of the Schedule, if the application was made in person, or




(b)

Form 3 of the Schedule, if the application was made by telephone or
other means of telecommunication.






Transition of controlled activities




16

(1)


For the purpose of section 28 (2) of the Act, a person who owned
controlled equipment before January 15, 2019 and is authorized to
continue to own the controlled equipment on that date must give to the
registrar, before July 1, 2019, the records described in section 7
(a), (b) and (f) of this regulation.




(2)

For the purpose of section 28 (3) of the Act, a person who is in the
business of selling controlled equipment before January 15, 2019 must
apply for a registration before April 1, 2019 for that provision to
apply.




(3)

For the purpose of section 28 (5) of the Act, a person who owned
controlled equipment before January 15, 2019 but is not authorized to
continue to own the controlled equipment on that date must apply for a
waiver before April 1, 2019 for that provision to apply.




Schedule


(section 15)



Form 1

Information for Warrant









Form 2

Warrant






Form 3

Telewarrant








[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Pill Press and Related Equipment Control Act

, S.B.C. 2018, c. 24, ss. 27 (2) and 30]



