







B.C. Reg. 343/95

O.C. 1008/95


Deposited August 18, 1995

effective September 1, 1995






This consolidation is current to October 17, 2023.

See the

Cumulative B.C. Regulations Bulletin 2023


for amendments effective after October 17, 2023.





Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Income Tax Act


Political Contributions Regulations


[Last amended September 20, 2020 by B.C. Reg. 262/2020]






Income tax receipts




1


In this regulation:


"receipt"
means a receipt issued under section 4.722 of the

Income Tax Act

by a financial agent for a registered political party, registered
constituency association or candidate.

[am. B.C. Reg. 262/2020, Sch. 2, s. 1.]





Information to be included on receipts




2

(1)


Receipts must be printed with sequential serial numbers.




(2)

A receipt and every copy of a receipt issued for a political
contribution must clearly indicate the following:




(a)

that it is a receipt for British Columbia income tax purposes;




(b)

the serial number of the receipt;




(c)

the amount of the political contribution;




(d)

the date on which the political contribution was received;




(e)

the name and address of the individual making the political
contribution;




(f)

the signature of the financial agent;




(g)

in the case of a contribution to a candidate,




(i)

the name of the candidate, and




(ii)

the election in which the individual is a candidate, identified by
electoral district and general voting day;




(h)

in the case of a contribution to a political party or constituency
association,




(i)

the name of the organization as filed with the chief electoral officer
under Part 9 of the

Election Act

, and




(ii)

the identity number assigned to the organization under
sectionÂ 192 of the

Election Act

.




(3)

If a replacement receipt is issued for a previously issued receipt, in
addition to the applicable information under subsection (2), the
receipt must clearly indicate




(a)

that it is issued as a replacement receipt, and




(b)

the serial number of the original receipt.

[am. B.C. Reg. 262/2020, Sch. 2, s. 2.]





Invalid receipts




3

(1)


A receipt is not valid for the purposes of section 4.722 of the

Income Tax Act





(a)

if it is not signed by the financial agent of the registered political
party, registered constituency association or candidate to whom the
contribution is given, or




(b)

if




(i)

the day on which the political contribution was received,




(ii)

the year in which the political contribution was received, or




(iii)

the amount of the contribution


is incorrectly or illegibly entered on the receipt.




(2)

A receipt referred to in subsection (1) (b) must be dealt with as a
spoiled receipt.

[am. B.C. Reg. 262/2020, Sch. 2, s. 1.]





Distribution and retention of receipts




4

(1)


Receipts must have at least 2 parts, to be distributed as follows:




(a)

the original must be provided to the individual for attachment to the
individual's tax return;




(b)

one copy must be retained by the financial agent;




(c)

if applicable, other copies must be dealt with in accordance with the

Election Act

.




(2)

If a receipt is spoiled, it must be marked "cancelled" and the
original and all copies must be retained by the financial agent.




(3)

Copies of receipts required to be retained under this regulation must
be retained by the financial agent at the same location that the
financial records of the political party, constituency association or
candidate under the

Election Act

are maintained by the financial agent.

[am. B.C. Reg. 262/2020, Sch. 2, s. 3.]





Receipts may be used as eligible political contribution by spouse or
common-law partner




5


A receipt for an eligible political contribution by the spouse or
common-law partner of an individual may be used by the individual as
an eligible political contribution of the individual.

[am. B.C. Reg. 262/2020, Sch. 2, s. 4.]





Restrictions on eligible political contributions in relation to
conference and convention fees




6


If a fee for a conference or convention, as referred to in section 180
(3) of the

Election Act

, includes an amount to cover the costs of food or accommodation, or
both, that amount is not an eligible political contribution and must
be deducted from the fee for the purposes of determining the political
contribution for which a receipt may be issued.



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Income Tax Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 215, ss. 4.722 and 48.]



