







B.C. Reg. 177/2013

W.C.B.


Deposited April 26, 2013

effective August 1, 2013





This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Workers Compensation Act



Reconsideration of Prescribed

Compensation Claims Regulation


[Last amended April 6, 2020 by B.C. Reg. 279/2019]




Definition




1


In this regulation,
"Act"
means the

Workers Compensation Act

.






Reconsidering benefits




2


Section 203
[reconsideration of prescribed compensation claims]
of the Act applies to the following claims:




(a)

the worker continues to have a compensable disability sustained more
than 10 years before the worker's application under section 203 (2) of
the Act or section 24 of the

Workers Compensation Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 492, as applicable, and permanent disability
compensation was determined by the Board based on a percentage of
total disability of 12% or greater for that compensable disability;




(b)

the worker continues to have a compensable disability sustained more
than 10 years before the worker's application under section 203 (2) of
the Act or section 24 of the

Workers Compensation Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 492, as applicable, and permanent disability
compensation was determined by the Board for an injury involving the
spinal column;




(c)

the worker continues to have a compensable disability sustained more
than 10 years before the worker's application under section 203 (2) of
the Act or section 24 of the

Workers Compensation Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 492, as applicable, and permanent disability
compensation was determined by the Board on or after October 1, 1977
for an injury to a part of the body other than the spinal column;




(d)

the worker




(i)

continues to have one compensable disability with a percentage of
total disability of 5% or greater sustained more than 10 years before
the worker's application under section 203 (2) of the Act, or section
24 of the

Workers Compensation Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 492, and




(ii)

also continues to have one or more compensable disabilities sustained
at any time before the worker's application under section 203 (2) of
the Act or section 24 of the

Workers Compensation Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 492, as applicable, which, when combined with the
compensable disability referred to in subparagraph (i), brings the
worker's total permanent disability compensation determined by the
Board to a percentage of total disability of 12% or greater for the
combined compensable disabilities.

[en. B.C. Reg. 279/2019, App. F, s. 2.]





Compensable disabilities




3


For the purposes of section 2 (d) (ii), the compensable disabilities
may be the result of one or more injuries that were the subject of one
or more claims under the Act, the

Workers Compensation Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 492, or both.

[am. B.C. Reg. 279/2019, App. F, s. 3.]


[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Workers Compensation Act

, R.S.B.C. 2019, c. 1, s. 203.]



