







B.C. Reg. 161/2011

O.C. 423/2011


Deposited September 9, 2011






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to Point in Time




Public Health Act


Regulated Activities Regulation


[includes amendments up to B.C. Reg. 286/2012, October 15, 2012]




Part 1 — Definition





Definition




1


In this regulation,
"Act"
means the

Public Health Act

.




Part 2 — Regulated Activities



Division 1 — Personal Service Establishments





Personal service establishments




2

(1)


In this Division:



"personal service establishment"

means an establishment in which a person provides a service to or on
the body of another person, and includes a barbershop, beauty parlour,
health spa, massage parlour, tattoo shop, sauna and steam bath;



"tanning equipment"

means equipment designed to cause tanning of the skin through
ultraviolet irradiation of one or more parts of the body, and includes
each component of such equipment;



"tanning facility"

means a personal service establishment in which a person makes tanning
equipment available for use by another person.




(2)

The operation of a personal service establishment is prescribed as a
regulated activity.

[am. B.C. Reg. 286/2012, Sch. 1, s. 1.]





Water supply required




3


An operator of a personal service establishment must not operate the
establishment unless there is, on the premises of the establishment,




(a)

an adequate supply of hot and cold water at all times for operating
and cleaning purposes, and




(b)

an adequate and conveniently located hot and cold water hand washing
facility, with ancillary equipment.






Minors prohibited from using tanning facilities




3.1

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), the operator of a tanning facility must not
permit a person who is less than 18 years of age to use tanning
equipment located in the operator's tanning facility.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply in respect of a person who is less than
18 years of age and holds a written prescription, issued by a medical
practitioner or a nurse practitioner, directing the person to use
tanning equipment.




(3)

An operator must ensure that a person referred to in subsection (2)
uses tanning equipment located in the operator's tanning facility only
in accordance with the directions contained in the prescription.

[en. B.C. Reg. 286/2012, Sch. 1, s. 2.]





Sign must be posted




3.2

(1)


An operator of a tanning facility must display in a prominent place
where customers purchase services a sign that




(a)

is clearly visible,




(b)

states clearly "It is illegal to permit persons under 18 to use UV
tanning equipment in this facility without a prescription.", and




(c)

is in the form provided by the minister for the purposes of this
section.




(2)

If a sign under subsection (1) is provided electronically, the sign
must be printed




(a)

without any changes, and




(b)

in accordance with the directions of the minister, including
directions in respect of size and print and background colour.

[en. B.C. Reg. 286/2012, Sch. 1, s. 2.]





Offences




3.3


A person commits an offence for the purposes of sections 18 (3) and 99
(2) (a) of the Act if the person contravenes any of the following
provisions of this Division:




(a)

section 3.1
[minors prohibited from using tanning facilities]
;




(b)

section 3.2
[sign must be posted]
.

[en. B.C. Reg. 286/2012, Sch. 1, s. 2.]



Division 2 — Public Sanitary Facilities and Toilets





Public sanitary facilities and toilets




4

(1)


In this Division:



"public place"

means a place to which the public has access, whether or not




(a)

a fee is charged for that access, or




(b)

the place is enclosed;



"public toilet"

means a toilet that is located in a public place;



"sanitary facility"

means a room containing a toilet, washbasin and ancillary equipment,
and includes a privy, shower or urinal.




(2)

The operation of a sanitary facility in a public place is prescribed
as a regulated activity.






Sanitary facilities in public places of assembly or recreation




5

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), an operator of a public place meant for
assembly or recreation must ensure that the public place contains, and
the public has access to, adequate sanitary facilities.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply to




(a)

a neighbourhood park,




(b)

a school ground, or




(c)

a refreshment stand.






No fee for use of public toilet




6

(1)


An operator of a public place must not




(a)

demand or require payment for the use of a public toilet, or




(b)

have control of, or permit a person to install, a public toilet that
operates or is accessible only on payment.




(2)

A person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence and is
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $2 000.




Division 3 — Soil Amendments and Organic Matter





Soil amendments and organic matter




7


The following are prescribed as regulated activities:




(a)

the storage and application to land of soil amendments within the
meaning of the Code of Practice for Soil Amendments, B.C. Reg.
210/2007;




(b)

the production, distribution, storage, sale, use or application to
land of biosolids or compost to which the Organic Matter Recycling
Regulation, B.C. Reg. 18/2002, applies.



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Public Health Act

, S.B.C. 2008, c. 28, sections 111, 115, 124 and 126]



