







B.C. Reg. 103/2007

O.C. 229/2007


Deposited April 26, 2007






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Representative for Children and Youth Act



Representative for

Children and Youth Regulation



[includes amendments up to B.C. Reg. 142/2019, July 3, 2019]






Definition




0.1


In this regulation,
"Act"
means the

Representative for Children and Youth Act

.

[en. B.C. Regs. 324/2007 and 401/2007.]





Procedure for appointment of deputy representative




1


In order to appoint a deputy representative, the representative must
use a merit based process to select the successful candidate.






Qualifications of deputy representative




2


A deputy representative appointed under the Act must have the
following qualifications:




(a)

a degree from a university or college, with standards and credentials
acceptable to the representative, in a discipline the representative
considers relevant;




(b)

experience




(i)

working with children,




(ii)

respecting the provision of one or more designated services, as
defined in the Act, or experience, in British Columbia or another
jurisdiction, that is substantially similar to this type of
experience,




(iii)

investigating the critical injuries of children or the deaths of
children, or




(iv)

in financial or business administration;




(c)

experience in a senior management role;




(d)

understanding of, or experience working with, aboriginal children,
families or communities, if the deputy representative has the
experience described in paragraph (b) (i), (ii) or (iii).






Additional designated services




3


For the purposes of the definition of "designated services" in the
Act, the following services or programs are prescribed:




(a)

services or programs under the

Youth Criminal Justice Act

(Canada);




(b)

the child in the home of a relative program, respecting which income
assistance is provided under section 6 of the Employment and
Assistance Regulation;




(c)

services or programs for children with special needs provided or
funded by the ministry of the minister responsible for the

Child, Family and Community Service Act

.


[en. B.C. Reg. 296/2008, s. 1; am. B.C. Reg. 142/2019, s. 1.]






Additional reviewable services




4


For the purposes of the definition of "reviewable services" in the
Act, the following services or programs are prescribed:




(a)

services or programs under the

Youth Criminal Justice Act

(Canada);




(b)

the child in the home of a relative program, respecting which income
assistance is provided under section 6 of the Employment and
Assistance Regulation.

[en. B.C. Reg. 296/2008, s. 1.]





Services or programs for young adults




4.1


For the purposes of section 6 (1) (a.1) of the Act, the following
services or programs are prescribed:




(a)

community living support provided or funded under the

Community Living Authority Act

;




(b)

support services or financial assistance provided under an agreement
made under section 12.3 of the

Child, Family and Community Service Act

;




(c)

the Provincial Tuition Waiver Program administered by the ministry of
the minister responsible for the

College and Institute Act

.

[en. B.C. Reg. 142/2019, s. 2.]





Repealed




5


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 296/2008, s. 1.]






Multidisciplinary team




6

(1)


Members appointed by the representative to the multidisciplinary team
established under section 15 of the Act may include




(a)

individuals with expertise in the following disciplines:




(i)

child welfare;




(ii)

pathology;




(iii)

pediatric medicine;




(iv)

nursing;




(v)

education;




(vi)

public health;




(vii)

special needs and developmental disabilities, and




(b)

representatives of the following:




(i)

the aboriginal community;




(ii)

the Ministry of Children and Family Development;




(iii)

the Coroners Service of British Columbia;




(iv)

the Royal Canadian Mounted Police or a municipal police force.




(2)

An appointment to the multidisciplinary team is for a term of up to 2
years, as set by the representative, and may be renewed by the
representative.




(3)

In addition to members appointed for a term as described in subsection
(2), the representative may appoint members to the multidisciplinary
team on an ad hoc basis, for the purposes of one or more reviews or
investigations under Part 4 of the Act, as the representative
considers advisable based on the circumstances of the matter under
review or investigation.




(4)

Before participating on the multidisciplinary team, a member must sign
and file with the representative an undertaking to comply with any
standards of conduct issued by the representative.




(5)

Meetings of the multidisciplinary team must be chaired by the
representative or a person from the representative's office assigned
by the representative.




(6)

The representative may




(a)

reimburse the members of the multidisciplinary team, in accordance
with general directives of the Treasury Board, for reasonable and
necessary travelling and out of pocket expenses incurred in carrying
out their duties, and




(b)

pay the members a fee set by the representative.

[en. B.C. Reg. 296/2008, s. 2.]


[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Representative for Children and Youth Act

, S.B.C. 2006, c. 29, s. 29.]



