







B.C. Reg. 314/2012

M243/2012


Deposited November 8, 2012







This consolidation is current to September 19, 2023.

See the

Cumulative B.C. Regulations Bulletin 2023


for amendments effective after September 19, 2023.





Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




School Act


School Calendar Regulation

[Last amended March 15, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 64/2022]





Application of regulation




1


This regulation applies to the school calendar for the 2013/2014
school year and subsequent school years.






Definitions




2


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the

School Act

;



"day of instruction"

means, in respect of any school, a day in a school calendar year in
which students receive instruction in an educational program;



"days in session"

means, in respect of any school, the days in a school calendar year on
which the principal, vice principals, directors of instruction and
teachers of the school are scheduled to be available for
instructional, non-instructional or administrative activities;



"non-instructional day"

means, in respect of any school, a day in session in a school calendar
year that is not a day of instruction;



"non-instructional period"

means, in respect of any school, a period of time in a day in session
in a school calendar year during which students do not receive
instruction.

[am. B.C. Reg. 203/2015, s. 1.]





Prescribed minimum hours of instruction




3

(1)


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 20/2022, s. 1.]




(2)

Subject to subsections (2.1) and (3), the following are the prescribed
minimum hours of instruction that a board must offer to students
enrolled in the schools in its school district in the 2019/2020 school
year and subsequent school years:




(a)

853 hours of instruction for students in kindergarten;




(b)

878 hours of instruction for students in grades 1 to 7;




(c)

952 hours of instruction for students in grades 8 to 12.




(2.1)

Subject to subsection (3), the following are the prescribed minimum
hours of instruction that a board must offer to students enrolled in
the schools in its school district in the 2021/2022 school year:




(a)

823 hours of instruction for students in kindergarten;




(b)

848 hours of instruction for students in grades 1 to 7;




(c)

922 hours of instruction for students in grades 8 to 12.




(3)

There are no prescribed minimum hours of instruction that a board must
offer to students enrolled in a distributed learning school.


[en. B.C. Reg. 6/2018, s. 1; am. B.C. Regs. 221/2021, s. 1; 20/2022,
s. 1; 64/2022, s. 1.]






Prescribed information in school calendars




4

(1)


For the purposes of section 87.01 (3) (b)
[school calendar]
of the Act, the following information is prescribed in respect of a
school calendar for a school that is not a distributed learning
school:




(a)

subject to subsection (3), the number and dates of the days in
session;




(b)

subject to subsection (3), the number and dates of each day of
instruction;




(c)

the vacation periods and the dates of statutory holidays;




(d)

the dates of each non-instructional day;




(e)

the number of hours of instruction offered to students in each grade.




(2)

For the purposes of section 87.01 (3) (b) of the Act, the following
information is prescribed in respect of a school calendar for a
distributed learning school:




(a)

the number and dates of the days in session;




(b)

the dates on which the principal, vice principals, directors of
instruction and teachers of the school are available for instruction;




(c)

the vacation periods and the dates of statutory holidays.




(3)

A board is not required to include in a school calendar the
information described in subsection (1) (a) and (b) if the days are
for optional or remedial learning activities scheduled during vacation
periods.






Consultations




5

(1)


For the purposes of section 87.01 (7)
[school calendar]
of the Act, a board must make publicly available a school calendar
that it proposes to submit to the minister under section 87.01 (5) or
(6) of the Act at least one month before the date the school calendar
must be submitted to the minister.




(2)

The board must provide an opportunity to




(a)

the parents of the students enrolled in each school to which the
proposed school calendar is to apply, and




(b)

representatives of employees of the board assigned to the school


to provide comments to the board with respect to the school calendar
made publicly available under subsection (1).




(3)

For certainty, subsections (1) and (2) do not apply in respect of a
school calendar that has been amended based on comments previously
provided under subsection (2).






Amending a school calendar




6

(1)


For the purposes of section 87.02
[school calendar â€” amendment]
of the Act, a board must make publicly available proposed amendments
to a school calendar at least one month before making the amendments.




(2)

A board must, as soon as practicable and, in any event, within 30 days
of amending a school calendar under section 87.02 of the Act, provide
the minister with the amended school calendar.




(3)

Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply to a board that reschedules a
non-instructional day previously scheduled in a school calendar if the
board gives notice of the change to




(a)

the parents of the students enrolled in the school to which the
proposed change is to apply, and




(b)

the representatives of employees of the board assigned to the school.




(4)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 6/2018, s. 2.]




(5)

Subsection (1) does not apply to a board that amends a school calendar
for the 2021/2022 school year




(a)

to include the National Day for Truth and Reconciliation, or




(b)

to reflect reduced hours of instruction during the period starting on
January 3, 2022 and ending on January 9, 2022 as a result of the
COVID-19 pandemic.


[am. B.C. Regs. 203/2015, s. 3; 6/2018, s. 2; 221/2021, s. 2; 64/2022,
s. 2.]






Form of school calendar




7


A board must use the school calendar forms published by the minister
to




(a)

submit one or more school calendars to the minister under section
87.01
[school calendar]
of the Act, and




(b)

provide an amended school calendar to the minister under section 6 (2)
of this regulation.






Designation of purpose of non-instructional days and periods




8

(1)


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 20/2022, s. 2 (a).]




(2)

In each of the 2021/2022 and 2022/2023 school years, a board must
schedule at least one non-instructional day for the purpose of
providing teachers with an opportunity to participate in discussions
and activities that focus on both of the following:




(a)

enhancing Indigenous student achievement;




(b)

integrating Indigenous world views and perspectives into learning
environments.




(3)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 20/2022, s. 2 (a).]




(4)

For certainty, nothing in subsection (2) prevents a board from
providing an opportunity for parents of students attending schools in
the district, other employees of the board and members of the
community to participate in the non-instructional day or periods
described in that subsection.


[en. B.C. Reg. 93/2019; am. B.C. Reg. 20/2022, s. 2.]



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

School Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 412, s. 168.02.]



