







B.C. Reg. 115/2014

O.C. 413/2014


Deposited June 23, 2014

effective December 1, 2014





This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Adult Guardianship Act


Statutory Property Guardianship Regulation

[Last amended March 30, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 76/2022]



Part 1 — Definitions and Application





Definitions




1


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the

Adult Guardianship Act

;


"assessment"
means an assessment of incapability for the purposes of




(a)

determining whether to issue a certificate of incapability under
section 32 (3) of the Act,




(b)

conducting a second assessment under section 33 (3) of the Act, or




(c)

conducting a reassessment under section 34 of the Act, including for
the purposes of section 35 (3) of the Act;



"assessment report"

means an assessment report made in accordance with section 10
[on completing assessment]
.






Application




2


This regulation applies only for the purposes of Part 2.1 of the Act.




Part 2 — Prescribed Persons





Health care providers




3

(1)


A person who is licensed, certified or registered under one or more of
the following Acts to provide health care is prescribed as a health
care provider:




(a)


Health Professions Act

;




(b)


Social Workers Act

.




(2)

The classes of health care providers who are prescribed as qualified
health care providers are as follows:




(a)

registrants of the British Columbia College of Social Workers;




(b)

registrants of the British Columbia College of Nurses and Midwives who
are authorized to use the title "nurse practitioner", "registered
nurse" or "registered psychiatric nurse";




(c)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 152/2018, s. 8.]




(d)

registrants of the College of Occupational Therapists of British
Columbia;




(e)

registrants of the College of Psychologists of British Columbia.




(3)

A registrant referred to in subsection (2) may exercise powers and
perform duties as a qualified health care provider only if




(a)

the board for the college referred to in subsection (2) of which the
registrant is a member has established standards, limits or conditions
respecting eligibility, by its members, to act as qualified health
care providers, and




(b)

the registrant is eligible under, and acting in accordance with, all
applicable standards, limits and conditions referred to in
paragraph (a).

[am. B.C. Regs. 152/2018, s. 8; 206/2020, s. 14.]





Health authority designates




4

(1)


The following are prescribed as bodies that may designate persons as
having authority to issue certificates of incapability under
section 32 of the Act:




(a)

a regional health board within the meaning of the

Health Authorities Act

;




(b)

the Provincial Health Services Authority.




(2)

A regional health board prescribed under subsection (1) (a) may
authorize an employee, by bylaw approved by the minister responsible
for the administration of the

Health Authorities Act

, to make the designation referred to in that subsection on behalf of
the regional health board.




Part 3 — Conducting Assessments





Assessment components




5


An assessment must include both of the following components:




(a)

a medical component,




(i)

conducted by a medical practitioner within 6 months before the
assessment report is completed, and




(ii)

consisting of one or more examinations and all resulting diagnoses and
prognoses relevant to the adult's incapability to manage that adult's
financial affairs;




(b)

a functional component,




(i)

conducted by a qualified health care provider, and




(ii)

consisting of one or more evaluations of the adult's understanding of,
and ability to manage, that adult's financial affairs.






Information to be given before assessment




6

(1)


Before conducting the medical or functional component of an
assessment, the qualified health care provider responsible for that
component must advise the adult being assessed of all of the
following:




(a)

that the adult is being assessed to determine whether the adult is
incapable of managing that adult's financial affairs;




(b)

that the assessment may be used to determine whether the adult will
have, or continue to have, a statutory property guardian;




(c)

that the adult can refuse to be assessed, in which case the assessment
may be conducted using observational information and information
gathered from other sources;




(d)

that the adult may have a person of the adult's choosing present
during all or part of the assessment unless, in the opinion of the
qualified health care provider, the person's presence would disrupt or
in any way adversely affect the assessment process;




(e)

that if the assessment is completed, the adult may have a copy of the
assessment report from the person who completes the report;




(f)

that the adult may ask questions of, and raise concerns with, the
qualified health care provider with respect to the assessment and the
results of the assessment.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), advice need not be given in accordance with
that subsection if the qualified health care provider has reason to
believe that it may result in




(a)

serious physical or mental harm to the adult, or




(b)

significant damage or loss to the adult's property.

[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 4.]





Others may be present




7

(1)


A qualified health care provider may permit a person other than the
adult being assessed to be present during all or part of an assessment




(a)

if requested by the adult, or




(b)

if, in the opinion of the qualified health care provider, it would be
necessary or advisable for the purposes of




(i)

communicating with the adult, or




(ii)

conducting the assessment.




(2)

A qualified health care provider may prohibit a person from being
present during all or part of an assessment if, in the opinion of the
qualified health care provider, the presence of the person would
disrupt or in any way adversely affect the assessment process.




(3)

Subsection (2) applies even if the adult requests the person to be
present.






Assessment may occur without adult




8


An assessment, or part of an assessment, may be conducted without the
adult being present, and based on observational information and
information gathered from other sources, if




(a)

the adult




(i)

refuses, in full or in part, to participate in the assessment, or




(ii)

cannot reasonably be accessed or is not reasonably able to participate
in the assessment, and




(b)

the qualified health care provider conducting the assessment is
satisfied that the assessment would be completed accurately using the
information available.






Test of incapability




9

(1)


An adult is incapable of managing the adult's financial affairs if the
qualified health care provider determines that any of the following
apply:




(a)

the adult cannot understand the nature of the adult's financial
affairs, including the approximate value of the adult's business and
property and the obligations owed to the adult's dependants, if any;




(b)

the adult cannot understand the decisions that must be made or actions
that must be taken for the reasonable management of the adult's
financial affairs;




(c)

the adult cannot understand the risks and benefits of making or
failing to make particular decisions, or taking or failing to take
particular actions, in respect of the adult's financial affairs;




(d)

the adult cannot understand that the information referred to in this
subsection applies to the adult;




(e)

the adult cannot demonstrate that the adult is able to implement, or
to direct others to implement, the decisions or actions referred to in
paragraph (b).




(2)

For the purposes of sections 33 (3) and 34 of the Act, a qualified
health care provider must consider the changes, if any, in the adult's
incapability since the previous assessment and the adult's
understanding of those changes.


[am. B.C. Regs. 203/2014, Sch. s. 1; 76/2022, s. 3.]






On completing assessment




10

(1)


On completing an assessment, the qualified health care provider who is
conducting the assessment must do all of the following:




(a)

complete an assessment report as set out in Form 1;




(b)

attach to the assessment report details of




(i)

the factors that were considered in making the determination of the
adult's capability or incapability,




(ii)

the conclusions that were reached on the basis of those factors,




(iii)

a summary of the information, if any, gathered under section 8
[assessment may occur without adult]
, and




(iv)

any other matter the qualified health care provider believes to be
relevant to the assessment;




(c)

advise the adult of the details and the results of the assessment,
including the determination of the adult's capability or incapability;




(d)

offer to the adult a copy of the report and attachments referred to in
paragraphs (a) and (b).




(2)

A qualified health care provider need not comply with the requirements
of subsection (1) (c) or (d) if the qualified health
care provider has reason to believe that it may result in




(a)

serious physical or mental harm to the adult, or




(b)

significant damage or loss to the adult's property.




Part 4 — Certificates of Incapability





Before issuing certificate of incapability




11

(1)


For the purpose of section 32 (3.1) of the Act, a health authority
designate must give to the adult and, if contact information is known
to the health authority designate, the adult's spouse or a near
relative of the adult,




(a)

notice of the intention to issue a certificate of incapability, and




(b)

written reasons for the issuance of the certificate.




(2)

Notice and reasons under subsection (1) may be given as follows:




(a)

in person;




(b)

by mail, other than by electronic mail, in which case, the notice and
reasons are deemed to have been received 7 days after the date of
mailing;




(c)

by leaving them at the person's residence with an adult whom the
health authority designate has reason to believe resides with the
adult, in which case, the notice and reasons are deemed to have been
received on the date on which the notice and reasons were left.




(3)

For the purposes of section 32 (3.1) (c), the adult, spouse or near
relative must be given at least 10 days after receiving or being
deemed to have received the notice and reasons given under this
section to respond to the notice and reasons.






Certificate of incapability




12


A health authority designate may issue a certificate of incapability
as set out in Form 2.






Request for second assessment




13


For the purposes of section 33 (3) (a) of the Act, a request for a
second assessment must be made within 40 days after the date that
the Public Guardian and Trustee gives or sends to the adult the advice
that the Public Guardian and Trustee is the adult's statutory property
guardian.






Repealed




14


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 203/2014, Sch. s. 2.]




Part 5 — Transition





Application of this Part




15

(1)


In this Part,
"director's certificate"
means a certificate as described in paragraph (a) of the
definition of "patient" in the

Patients Property Act

.




(2)

This Part applies only if all of the following conditions are met:




(a)

before December 1, 2014, a person began an evaluation of the
incapability of an adult to manage the adult's financial affairs;




(b)

the purpose of the evaluation under paragraph (a) was to




(i)

assist in determining whether a director's certificate should be
issued in respect of the adult, or




(ii)

determine whether the adult is incapable of managing the adult's
financial affairs;




(c)

as of December 1, 2014, no decision had yet been made as to whether to
issue a director's certificate in respect of the adult;




(d)

on or after December 1, 2014, a health authority designate




(i)

receives a report, based wholly or in part on the results of the
evaluation referred to in paragraph (a), that the adult is
incapable of managing the adult's financial affairs, and




(ii)

must determine whether to issue a certificate of incapability in
respect of the adult.

[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 4.]





Conducting assessments




16

(1)


An evaluation described in section 15 (2) (a) and (b) of this
regulation is deemed to be an assessment of incapability for the
purposes of determining whether to issue a certificate of incapability
under section 32 (3) of the Act if




(a)

subject to subsection (2) (a) of this section, the person conducting
the evaluation is a qualified health care provider, and




(b)

the evaluation is conducted in accordance with Part 3
[Conducting Assessments]
, as modified by this section.




(2)

If this Part applies,




(a)

despite section 3 (3), only section 3 (2) applies for the purpose of
determining who is a qualified health care provider,




(b)

despite section 5, only a medical component is required,




(c)

despite section 6, but subject to subsection (2) of that section, only
the advice described in subsection (1) (a) of that section must be
given to the adult,




(d)

despite section 9, that section does not apply for the purpose of
determining whether an adult is incapable of managing the adult's
financial affairs,




(e)

despite section 10 (1) (a) and (b), the report received under section
15 (2) (d) is deemed to be in the prescribed form if the report




(i)

is in writing,




(ii)

includes information sufficient to identify the adult,




(iii)

sets out the findings of the person conducting the evaluation, and




(iv)

is signed and dated by, and includes contact information for, the
person who was conducting the evaluation, and




(f)

despite section 10 (1) (c) and (d), those paragraphs do not apply.




Form 1

[en. B.C. Reg. 203/2014, Sch. s. 3.]





Form 2





[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Adult Guardianship Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 6, s. 63 (2).]



