







B.C. Reg. 158/2019

O.C. 408/2019


Deposited July 8, 2019






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Temporary Foreign Worker Protection Act



Temporary Foreign Worker

Protection Regulation



[Last amended December 15, 2020 by B.C. Reg. 231/2020]






Definition




1


In this regulation,
"Act"
means the

Temporary Foreign Worker Protection Act

.






Security with licence applications




2


For the purposes of section 5 (1) (b) of the Act, security filed by an
applicant for a licence must meet the following requirements:




(a)

the amount of the security must be $20 000;




(b)

the security must be posted under the

Bonding Act

;




(c)

the security must be of a type that is




(i)

listed in section 8 of the Bonding Regulations, B.C. Reg. 11/68, and




(ii)

acceptable to the director.






Prescribed classes of employers for which

certificate of registration not required




2.1


For the purposes of section 10 (2) of the Act, the following classes
of employers are prescribed:




(a)

employers who recruit foreign nationals who, under section 186 of the
Immigration and Refugee Protection Regulations (Canada), may work in
Canada without a work permit;




(b)

employers who recruit foreign nationals for whom an officer is not
required to make a determination under section 203 (1) of the
Immigration and Refugee Protection Regulations (Canada), not including
those employers who recruit foreign nationals to perform the work of a
caregiver through




(i)

the Home Child Care Provider Pilot Project or Home Support Worker
Pilot Project established under section 205 of the Immigration and
Refugee Protection Regulations (Canada), or




(ii)

any program established under section 205 of the Immigration and
Refugee Protection Regulations (Canada) that results from, and is
significantly similar to, either pilot project referred to in
subparagraphÂ (i) of this paragraph.

[en. B.C. Reg. 231/2020, Sch.]





Additional information in licensed foreign worker recruiter registry




3


For the purposes of section 29 (1) (a) (iv) of the Act, the registry
respecting foreign worker recruiters established and maintained by the
director must contain the following prescribed information for each
licensee, as applicable:




(a)

the terms and conditions, if any, specified under section 6 (3) of the
Act in the licence of the licensee;




(b)

amendments, if any, made under section 7 of the Act to the licence of
the licensee;




(c)

if the licence of the licensee is suspended under section 7 of the
Act, the start date and end date of the suspension;




(d)

if the licence of the licensee is cancelled under section 7 of the
Act, the date on which the licence is cancelled.






Monetary penalties




4

(1)


In this section,
"specified requirement"
means a requirement of the Act referred to in section 38 (1) of the
Act.




(2)

For the purposes of section 38 (1) (f) of the Act, the following
monetary penalties are prescribed:




(a)

unless paragraph (b) or (c) of this subsection applies, a monetary
penalty of $500 if the director determines that the person contravened
a specified requirement;




(b)

unless paragraph (c) of this subsection applies, a monetary penalty of
$2 500 if




(i)

the director determines that the person contravened a specified
requirement,




(ii)

the director previously made a determination under paragraph (a) that
the person contravened the same specified requirement, and




(iii)

the contravention referred to in subparagraph (i) occurred within 3
years after the contravention referred to in subparagraph (ii);




(c)

a monetary penalty of $10 000 if




(i)

the director determines that the person contravened a specified
requirement,




(ii)

the director previously made a determination under paragraph (b) that
the person contravened the same specified requirement, and




(iii)

the contravention referred to in subparagraph (i) occurred within 3
years after the contravention referred to in subparagraph (ii).




(3)

For the purposes of subsection (2), an act or omission of a person
that results in a contravention of a specified requirement is to be
treated as a single contravention regardless of the number of persons
affected by the contravention.






Payment of administrative penalty




5


A person who is required under the Act to pay an administrative
penalty must pay the administrative penalty to the Minister of
Finance.






Interest rate on determinations and tribunal orders




6

(1)


In this section:



"prime lending rate"

means the prime lending rate of the principal banker to the
government;


"quarter"
means one of the following periods in a year:




(a)

January 1 to March 31;




(b)

April 1 to June 30;




(c)

July 1 to September 30;




(d)

October 1 to December 31.




(2)

For the purposes of section 51 (1) of the Act, the prescribed rate of
interest during a quarter is the prime lending rate on the 15th day of
the month immediately preceding the quarter.

[en. B.C. Reg. 158/2019, Sch. 2.]





Interest rate on collected and deposited amounts




7


For the purposes of section 51 (4) of the Act, the prescribed rate of
interest that applies to an amount referred to in that section is the
actual rate of interest of the savings institution that applies to the
amount, from time to time, while the amount is held in deposit in the
savings institution.

[en. B.C. Reg. 158/2019, Sch. 2.]





Fee for searching of records




8

(1)


For the purposes of section 63 of the Act, the prescribed fee is $35.




(2)

Fees owing under section 63 of the Act must be paid to the director by
cheque, draft or money order, payable to the Minister of Finance.

[en. B.C. Reg. 158/2019, Sch. 2.]


[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Temporary Foreign Worker Protection Act

, S.B.C. 2018, c. 45, s. 82.]



