







B.C. Reg. 68/2022

Chief Electoral Officer


Deposited March 18, 2022






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)




Election Act


Voting Opportunities Regulation






Definition




1


In this regulation,
"Act"
means the

Election Act

.






Voting in another voting area




2


For the purposes of section 96 (6) (a) of the Act, when an individual
attends to vote at a final voting opportunity established for another
voting area in the same electoral district as the voting area in which
the individual is resident, the election procedures set out in section
96 (2) to (5) of the Act apply, and if an electronic voting book is
not used at the final voting opportunity, the election official
responsible must also proceed as follows:




(a)

before the ballot is given to the individual, the election official
responsible must complete a certification envelope by recording the
applicable information specified on the certification envelope;




(b)

before the ballot is deposited in the appropriate sealed ballot box,
the election official responsible must




(i)

place the ballot in a secrecy envelope, and




(ii)

place the secrecy envelope in the certification envelope.






Voting in another electoral district




3

(1)


For the purposes of section 96 (6) (b) of the Act, when an individual
attends to vote at a final voting opportunity established for another
electoral district for which an election is being conducted at the
same time as the election in which the individual is voting, the
election procedures set out in section 96 (2) to (5) of the Act apply,
and the election official responsible must also proceed as follows:




(a)

if the ballot is a write-in ballot, the election official responsible
must, when issuing the ballot, provide the individual with a copy of
the list of candidates, indicating the names of the candidates for the
electoral district for which the individual is a voter and, as
applicable, the status of the candidates as representatives of
specific registered political parties or as independent candidates;




(b)

if an electronic voting book is not used at the final voting
opportunity, the election official responsible must, before the ballot
is given to the individual, complete a certification envelope by
recording the applicable information specified on the certification
envelope;




(c)

if an electronic voting book is used at the final voting opportunity,
but it is not connected to an electronic network, the election
official responsible must, before the ballot is given to the
individual, complete a certification envelope in accordance with the
procedures established under section 79.02 (2) (e) of the Act;




(d)

in any of the circumstances described in paragraphs (a) to (c), the
election official responsible must, before the ballot is deposited in
the appropriate sealed ballot box,




(i)

place the ballot in a secrecy envelope, and




(ii)

place the secrecy envelope in the certification envelope.




(2)

For certainty, subsection (1) also applies when an individual attends
to vote at an advance voting opportunity established for another
electoral district for which an election is being conducted at the
same time as the election in which the individual is voting.






Special voting in another electoral district




4


For the purposes of section 98 (7) of the Act, when an individual
attends to vote at a special voting opportunity established for
another electoral district for which an election is being conducted at
the same time as the election in which the individual is voting,
section 98 (3) and (4) applies, the procedures set out in section 96
(4) and (5) apply unless other procedures have been established under
section 77, and the election official responsible must also proceed as
follows:




(a)

before the ballot is given to the individual, the election official
responsible must complete a certification envelope by recording the
applicable information specified on the certification envelope;




(b)

before the ballot is deposited in the appropriate ballot box, the
election official responsible must




(i)

place the ballot in a secrecy envelope;




(ii)

place the secrecy envelope in the certification envelope.



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Election Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 106, ss. 96 (6) and 98 (7).



