







B.C. Reg. 320/2004

O.C. 723/2004


Deposited July 8, 2004

effective July 8, 2004





This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Environmental Management Act


Waste Discharge Regulation

[Last amended March 1, 2023 by B.C. Reg. 128/2022]





Interpretation




1


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the

Environmental Management Act

;


"vehicle"
has the same meaning as in the

Motor Vehicle Act

;


"written"
or
"in writing"
includes written messages transmitted electronically.






Prescribed industries, trades, businesses, operations and activities




2

(1)


The industries, trades and businesses, and classes of industries,
trades and businesses, listed in the Table in Schedule 1 and in column
1 of the Table in Schedule 2 are prescribed for the purposes of
section 6 (2) of the Act.




(2)

The activities and operations, and classes of activities and
operations, listed in the Table in Schedule 1 and in column 1 of the
Table in Schedule 2 are prescribed for the purposes of section 6 (3)
of the Act.






Operations exempt from the Act




3

(1)


In this section:



"coarse coal refuse"

means granular residual solids composed of rock fragments and
coal-like material, excluding tailings, from the preparation of
marketable coal in a coal preparation plant;


"overburden"
means naturally-occurring, unconsolidated or poorly consolidated,
mineral or organic matter overlying bedrock, including but not limited
to glacial till, gravel, clay and soil;


"tailings"
means fine waste materials




(a)

originating from a concentrator or coal preparation plant, and




(b)

remaining in a water suspension;


"waste rock"
means rock and granular residual solids, excluding tailings,




(a)

removed from a mine or from a metal or industrial mineral
concentrator, and




(b)

containing insufficient valuable constituents to warrant further
processing.




(2)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 87/2012, s. (b).]




(3)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 132/2006, s. 5.]




(3.1)

In subsections (4), (5), (6) and (6.1),
"industrial wood residue"
does not include the residue of wood treated with glue, paint, a
preservative or another substance harmful to plants or animals.




(4)

The use of industrial wood residue for foundation material at
construction sites is exempt from section 6 (2) and 6 (3) of the Act
if the material is applied under the direction of a professional
engineer.




(5)

The use of industrial wood residue




(a)

as plant mulch or in residential gardens,




(b)

as foundation material for animal bedding, and




(c)

in sports areas


is exempt from section 6 (2) and 6 (3) of the Act.




(6)

The use of industrial wood residue as a soil conditioner or ground
cover in non-agricultural operations is exempt from section 6 (2) and
6 (3) of the Act if




(a)

less than 100 m
3
/year is spread on a single property, and




(b)

it is applied in accordance with good agronomic practices.




(6.1)

The limitation in subsection (6) (a) does not apply if the industrial
wood residue is applied as a soil conditioner or ground cover to land
used for forestry.




(7)

The emissions and ash from a commercially available auxiliary fuel
fired refuse incinerator that serves a remote industrial,
recreational, exploration or construction camp designed to accommodate
fewer than 100 persons are exempt from the application of section 6
(2) and 6 (3) of the Act.




(8)

Emissions from the combustion, in a commercial pet crematorium, of the
corpses of pets are exempt from the application of section 6 (2) and 6
(3) of the Act.




(9)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 377/2008.]




(10)

A person is exempt from section 6 (2) and 6 (3) of the Act in relation
to the discharge to the environment of coarse coal refuse, waste rock
or overburden if the coarse coal refuse, waste rock or overburden is
managed in accordance with a permit issued under section 10 of the

Mines Act

.


[am. B.C. Regs. 464/2004, s. 5 (a); 132/2006, s. 5; 220/2006, Sch. s.
5; 287/2006; 377/2008; 87/2012, s. (b).]






Exemption from section 6 (2) and (3) of the Act by compliance with
code of practice




4

(1)


If




(a)

a person introduces waste into the environment




(i)

in the course of conducting an industry, trade or business, or an
industry, trade or business in a class, listed in column 1 of the
Table in Schedule 2, or




(ii)

that is produced in the course of carrying on an activity or operation
listed in column 1 of the Table in Schedule 2,




(b)

the introduction of the waste is governed by a code of practice, the
title of which is set out opposite the industry, trade, business,
activity or operation, or class of industry, trade, business, activity
or operation, in column 2 of the Table in Schedule 2,




(c)

the introduction of the waste is carried out in accordance with the
code of practice, and




(d)

the person's registration under subsection (2), if required under the
code of practice, is effective,


the person is, subject to section 4.1 (1) of this regulation, exempt
from section 6 (2) and (3) of the Act in relation to the introduction
of that waste into the environment.




(2)

In order to effect a registration referred to in subsection (1) (d),
the person must provide to a director the following information, as
applicable, in a form approved by the director:




(a)

if the person is an individual, the person's full name and residential
address;




(b)

if the person is a corporation or entity that is registered with the
Registrar of Companies under an Act that provides for an address at or
to which records may, under that Act, be served on the corporation or
entity




(i)

the registered name of the corporation or entity, and




(ii)

that address;




(c)

if the person is a corporation not referred to in paragraph (b),




(i)

the name of the corporation, and




(ii)

the address of the corporation's head office in British Columbia, or
if the corporation does not have a head office in British Columbia,
the address of the corporation's head office;




(d)

if the person is a partnership, the name of the partnership, the full
name of each partner, and the head office in British Columbia of the
partnership;




(e)

if the person is a corporation or entity operating under a name other
than its registered name, the name under which the corporation or
entity conducts or carries out the prescribed industry, trade,
business, operation or activity;




(f)

the name and address and contact numbers of an individual who is
located at or near the site where the introduction of waste into the
environment will occur and who is the local contact for the purposes
of the discharge;




(g)

the address and legal description of the location of the facility that
produces the waste, and the address, legal description and latitude
and longitude of the site where the introduction of waste into the
environment will occur;




(h)

the industry, trade, business, activity or operation, or class of
industry, trade, business, activity or operation, in relation to which
the waste is or will be introduced into the environment, as set out in
column 1 of the table in Schedule 2;




(i)

the title of the code of practice that governs the discharge of waste;




(j)

if the person previously held an authorization under the Act to
discharge waste or has previously registered under this regulation in
relation to a code of practice, the ministry's file number for that
authorization or registration;




(k)

other information that is relevant to the exemption and specified by
the minister as required for the purposes of a registration under the
applicable code of practice;




(l)

other information that is relevant to the exemption and specified by a
director in a particular case.




(3)

A registration under subsection (2) must




(a)

be provided to a director by registered mail, transmitted
electronically or delivered personally to a director, and




(b)

be accompanied by




(i)

the first annual charge calculated in accordance with section 9 (1),
and




(ii)

a written record of the charge calculation in a form approved by the
director.




(4)

For a person who is required under a code of practice to register for
an exemption under this section, the exemption takes effect on the
effective date of the registration which, in relation to a particular
registration, is the earlier of the following dates:




(a)

the date a director sends a notice in writing signed by the director
stating that the person's registration is effective;




(b)

the date that is 45 days after the date the person delivers the
registration and charge under subsection (3) to a director.




(5)

A person whose registration is effective under subsection (4) must




(a)

pay the annual charge calculated under section 9 (1) on each
anniversary of the effective date of the registration, and




(b)

provide a director with written notice within 30 days after




(i)

a change in information provided in the person's registration, or




(ii)

ceasing to conduct the industry, trade or business or to carry on the
activity or operation, at the facility referred to in subsection (2)
(g).




(6)

Despite subsection (4), a registration ceases to be effective




(a)

on the day following an anniversary referred to in subsection (5) (a)
if the annual charge was not paid in accordance with that subsection,
or




(b)

30 days after a change referred to in subsection (5) (b) if notice was
not provided in accordance with that subsection.




(7)

The minister, in a code of practice, may specify in relation to an
industry, trade, business, activity or operation, or a class of
industry, trade, business, activity or operation, whether registration
is required for an exemption under this section.




(8)

For greater certainty, if




(a)

the discharge of waste from an activity or operation of an industry,
trade or business described in subsection (1) (a) is not governed by
the code of practice set out opposite the title of the industry, trade
or business in the Table in Schedule 2, and




(b)

the activity or operation is listed in the Table in Schedule 1 or in
column 1 of the Table in Schedule 2,


registration under this section in relation to the code of practice
described in paragraph (a) does not exempt the person conducting the
industry, trade or business from section 6 (2) or (3) of the Act in
relation to the discharge described in that paragraph.


[am. B.C. Regs. 464/2004, s. 5 (b); 220/2006, Sch. s. 6; 365/2008, s.
(a); 46/2018, App. 2, s. 1.]






Repealed




4.1


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 54/2016, App. 2, s. 2 (a).]






False statement in registration




5

(1)


A person who knowingly provides false or misleading information in a
registration under section 4 (2) commits an offence.




(2)

A person who commits an offence under subsection (1) is liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $200 000.






Other code of practice requirements




6

(1)


A person who is exempt from section 6 (2) or (3) of the Act because of
compliance with section 4 (1)
[exemption by compliance with code of practice]
of this regulation must also comply with the requirements of the code
of practice not described in section 4 (1) (c) of this regulation.




(2)

A person who fails to comply with subsection (1) commits an offence
and is liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $200 000.






Substituted requirements




7

(1)


The minister or a director, on the minister's or the director's own
initiative, may, by order, substitute a different requirement for a
requirement contained in a code of practice if, in the individual
case, the minister or the director considers that




(a)

the substitution is necessary to protect the public or the
environment, or




(b)

the intent of the code of practice is met by the substituted
requirement.




(2)

If the minister or a director makes a substitution under subsection
(1), the minister or director may order that notification of the
substitution be given to the public in the manner the minister or
director specifies.




(3)

A director, on application under section 8, may, by order, substitute
a different requirement for a requirement contained in a code of
practice if the director considers that, in the individual case, the
intent of the code of practice will be met by the substituted
requirement.

[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, ss. 3 and 4.]





Application for substituted requirement




8

(1)


A person who is exempt from section 6 (2) or (3) of the Act under
section 4 (1) of this regulation may apply for a substitution
described in section 7 (3) by filing with a director a copy of a
completed application in the form specified by the director.




(2)

A person who makes an application under subsection (1) must do all of
the following:




(a)

within 15 days after the date the application is filed with the
director, post a readable copy of the application in a conspicuous
place at all main entrances to the site where the introduction of
waste into the environment will occur;




(b)

keep the copy posted for a period of not less than 30 days;




(c)

publish notice of the application in the form approved by the director
in one or more newspapers specified by the director;




(d)

advise the director in writing of the date the copy of the application
was posted under paragraph (a) and the date notice was published under
paragraph (c).




(3)

If directed to do so by a director, a person who makes an application
under subsection (1) must




(a)

serve a signed copy of the application on any person who, in the
director's opinion, may be adversely affected by an environmental
impact of the proposed substituted requirement, and




(b)

display a copy of the application in one or more branch post offices
of Canada Post Corporation specified by the director.




(4)

A person who may be adversely affected by an environmental impact of a
proposed substitution under this section may notify a director and the
applicant in writing, stating how the person is affected, within 30
days after the occurrence of the later of the following events:




(a)

the application is posted or published under subsection (2);




(b)

the application is served or displayed under subsection (3).




(5)

If directed to do so by a director, the applicant must consult in the
manner directed with a person who, in the director's opinion, may be
adversely affected by an environmental impact of the proposed
substitution to explain and clarify the intent of the application.




(6)

An applicant must demonstrate to the satisfaction of a director that
the substituted requirement requested meets the intent of the code of
practice.




(7)

A director, on receipt of an application under this section, may




(a)

request additional information from the applicant if the director
considers the information necessary for the evaluation of the
application, and




(b)

after the 30 day period referred to in subsection (4) is ended and
having considered any information provided under that subsection,




(i)

refuse to grant the substitution, or




(ii)

grant any or all the requested substitutions to any or all the
requirements of the code of practice, for a definite or indefinite
period of time, and subject to the conditions the director considers
appropriate.




(8)

On granting or refusing an application, a director must




(a)

serve a signed copy of the director's decision on the applicant, and




(b)

give notice of it to all persons who gave notice under subsection (4).




(9)

The fee for an application for a substitution is $150 per hour of time
a public service employee is engaged in considering or processing the
application and the director may




(a)

require the fee or a portion of the fee from the applicant before
beginning to process the application, and




(b)

invoice the applicant for the fee.




(10)

A director may cancel or amend a decision made under this section
whenever new information demonstrates to the satisfaction of the
director that




(a)

the applicant provided false or misleading material information in the
application, or




(b)

the cancellation or amendment is necessary to protect the environment
or the public.




(11)

A decision granting an application under this section ceases to have
effect if the fee under subsection (9) remains unpaid 30 days after
the date of the invoice.


[am. B.C. Regs. 220/2006, Sch. s. 7; 76/2022, s. 4.]






Annual fees




9

(1)


The annual charge for a registration under section 4 (2) is the sum of
the following amounts:




(a)

the sum of the amounts of the base fee set out in Table 1 in Schedule
3 for each type of discharge that




(i)

is authorized under the applicable code of practice, and




(ii)

is discharged in the course of conducting the industry, trade, or
business, or carrying out the activity or operation, to which the
registration relates;




(b)

the sum of the fees for each contaminant that is discharged under the
code of practice and, under that code, is subject to a fee.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1) (b), the fee for each contaminant
is the maximum discharge multiplied by the maximum concentration
multiplied by the applicable fee from Schedule 3, where




(a)

maximum discharge is the maximum quantity of discharge




(i)

specified in the registration, if the minister has specified under
section 4 (2) (k) that the maximum discharge is information required
for the purposes of a registration under section 4, or




(ii)

specified in or calculated under the code of practice, as applicable,
if subparagraph (i) does not apply,

calculated on an annual basis,



(b)

maximum concentration is the maximum concentration of the contaminant
authorized under the code of practice, and




(c)

applicable fee from Schedule 3 is the unit fee for the contaminant set
out in column 2 opposite the contaminant in Column 1 of Table 2, 3 or
4 of Schedule 3.




(3)

As a limitation on subsection (1) (a), if a person




(a)

has paid a base fee for a year in relation to a type of discharge, and




(b)

at the same time or later obtains a discharge authorization or
registers under a code of practice in relation to the same type of
discharge for a period that overlaps with all or part of the year
referred to in paragraph (a),


the person need not pay the part of the second base fee in relation to
that type of discharge that applies to the overlapping part of that
year.




(4)

For the purposes of subsection (2), the minister may specify




(a)

the contaminants regulated under the code of practice that are subject
to fees, and




(b)

how the maximum quantity of each contaminant is to be calculated.




(4.1)

Despite subsection (1) (b), if neither the maximum discharge nor a
calculation for maximum discharge is included in a code of practice
and the minister has not exercised the authority under section 4 (2)
(k) in relation to registrations under the applicable code, the first
and subsequent annual charge for the purposes of section 4 (3) (b) and
(5) (a) is the fee described in subsection (1) (a).




(5)

If a substitution is ordered under section 7 (1) or (3) in relation to
a requirement of a code of practice that affects the calculation of
fees under this section, the order must specify how the maximum
quantity of each contaminant must be calculated.




(6)

If the annual charge in respect of a registration is changed by an
order under section 7 (1) or (3), the change is effective on the next
anniversary of the effective date of the registration.


[am. B.C. Regs. 464/2004, s. 5 (c) to (f); 220/2006, Sch. s. 8;
46/2018, App. 2, s. 2.]






Rebates of charges




10


A director may refund an annual charge paid under section 4 (3) (b) or
(5) (a) only on a prorated basis and in the following circumstances:




(a)

the registration under section 4 in respect of which the annual charge
was paid is withdrawn by the person who paid the annual charge;




(b)

the person has already paid an amount that under section 9 (3) the
person was not required to pay.

[am. B.C. Reg. 46/2018, App. 2, s. 3.]





Minister may amend Schedule 2




11


If the minister prescribes a code of practice in relation to an
industry, trade, business, activity or operation listed in Column 1 of
the Table in Schedule 2, the minister may amend the Table by
adding the title of the code of practice to Column 2 opposite the
industry, trade, business, activity or operation in Column 1.

[en. B.C. Reg. 464/2004, s. 5 (g).]



Schedule 1


[am. B.C. Regs. 220/2006, Sch. ss. 9 to 11; 198/2007, ss. 1 and 2;
245/2015, s. 1; 154/2019; 128/2022, App. 1.]





Definitions




1


In this Schedule:


"burning"
means the combustion of material without using a stack or chimney to
vent the emitted products of combustion to the atmosphere;



"incineration"

means the controlled combustion or thermal decomposition of material
using a stack or chimney to vent the emitted products of the
combustion or thermal decomposition to the atmosphere, and includes
pyrolysis and gasification.






Industries, trades, businesses, operations and activities defined




2


In this Schedule:



"abrasives industry"

means establishments engaged in manufacturing grinding wheels or other
abrasive products;



"aluminum and aluminum alloy products industry"

means establishments, except home-based businesses, educational
facilities and establishments of hobbyists or artisans, engaged in
manufacturing




(a)

aluminum or aluminum alloys, or




(b)

aluminum products including, but not limited to, pipe tubing, aluminum
powder or diecast aluminum;



"asbestos mining industry"

means establishments engaged in mining or milling asbestos;



"asphalt roofing manufacturing industry"

means establishments involved in manufacturing asphalt saturated or
tar saturated roofing or siding materials;



"biotechnology industry"

means establishments that use living organisms or biological
techniques for research and development or in a production process, if
there is a potential for the entry of living organisms that can
sustain or modify themselves to the detriment of an ecosystem into the
natural environment or the food chain, and includes, but is not
limited to, establishments engaged in the development or manufacture
of antibiotics, insulin, interferon or recombinant DNA;



"burning or incineration of prohibited material"

means the burning, partial burning or incineration of one or more of
the following:




(a)

animal carcasses and waste from animal slaughtering;




(b)

asphalt or asphalt products;




(c)

batteries;




(d)

biomedical waste;




(e)

carpets;




(f)

construction waste other than lumber that has not been treated with
wood preservatives or other chemicals and is not coated with paint,
varnish, oil or other finishing material;




(g)

demolition waste;




(h)

drywall;




(i)

domestic waste;




(j)

electrical wire;




(k)

fibreglass and other fibre-reinforced polymers;




(l)

fuel and lubricant containers;




(m)

furniture and appliances;




(n)

hazardous waste;




(o)

manure;




(p)

paint and varnish;




(q)

plastics;




(r)

polystyrene foam;




(s)

railway ties;




(t)

rubber;




(u)

tar paper;




(v)

tires;




(w)

treated or painted wood products;




(x)

used oil;



"burning or incineration of waste"

means the burning, partial burning or incineration of waste material
generated from an industry, trade or business;



"burning or incineration of wood residue"

means the burning, partial burning or incineration of wood residue in
a beehive burner, a modified or unmodified silo burner or a wood
residue incinerator;



"cement and lime manufacturing industry"

means establishments engaged in manufacturing lime or Portland cement;



"chemical and chemical products industry"

means establishments, except home-based businesses, educational
facilities and establishments of hobbyists or artisans, engaged in
manufacturing industrial organic or inorganic chemicals, fertilizers,
pesticides, plastics, synthetic resins or moulding compounds, and
includes, but is not limited to, establishments manufacturing food
supplements, vitamins or pharmaceuticals, except pharmaceuticals
referred to in the definition of "biotechnology industry";



"clay industry"

means establishments, except home-based businesses, educational
facilities and establishments of hobbyists or artisans, engaged in
manufacturing structural, ceramic, porcelain or china clay products;



"commercial waste management or waste disposal industry"

means establishments primarily engaged in the commercial collection,
handling, storage, treatment, destruction or disposal of waste soil,
solids or liquids;



"contaminated site contaminant management"

means an activity, at or away from a contaminated site, for the
treatment, consolidation, removal, recycling, destruction or disposal
of contaminants or contaminated substances from the site;



"dairy products industry"

means establishments, except home-based businesses, educational
facilities and establishments of hobbyists or artisans, engaged in
processing fluid milk or manufacturing other dairy products;



"electrical or electronic products industry"

means establishments, except home-based businesses, educational
facilities and establishments of hobbyists or artisans, engaged in
manufacturing or recycling electrical or electronic products,
including batteries;



"electrical power industry"

means establishments that




(a)

are engaged in the production of electricity by the combustion of
fuel, and




(b)

have a rated production of more than 5 megawatts under peak load;



"flour, prepared cereal food or feed industry"

means establishments, except home-based businesses, educational
facilities and establishments of hobbyists or artisans, engaged in
manufacturing cereal grain flour, prepared flour mixes, prepared
cereal foods or feed;



"glass and glass products industry"

means establishments, except home-based businesses, educational
facilities and establishments of hobbyists or artisans, engaged in
manufacturing glass, glass containers or other glass products,
including establishments engaged in processing recycled glass;



"hazardous waste management"

means the generation, transportation, treatment, recycling, storage,
blending, disposal or destruction of hazardous waste;



"industrial fastener industry"

means establishments engaged in manufacturing industrial metal
fasteners;



"meat by-product processing industry"

means establishments, except home-based businesses, educational
facilities and establishments of hobbyists or artisans, engaged in
processing or rendering by-products, other than fish oil, from the
processing of red meat, poultry or fish;



"metal processing and metal products manufacturing industry"

means establishments, except home-based businesses, educational
facilities and establishments of hobbyists or artisans, engaged in
manufacturing metal products that are also engaged in




(a)

spray coating or dip coating metal and metal products, or




(b)

galvanizing or electroplating;



"metal smelting, iron and steel foundry and metal refining industry"

means establishments, except home-based businesses, educational
facilities and establishments of hobbyists or artisans, engaged in




(a)

smelting or refining metals or metal alloys including aluminum, or




(b)

secondary smelting,


and includes, but is not limited to,




(c)

establishments engaged in producing metal products by thermal melting
and casting or moulding metals, including reclaimed metal;



"mining and coal mining industry"

means establishments engaged in the mining of, or activities related
to the mining of, metals, non-metals, coal, gemstones or industrial
mineral ores or in beneficiating mineral ores but does not include




(a)

establishments located in areas or places defined as "exploration
sites" in section 65 of the Act, or




(b)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 330/3006, Sch. s. 10 (j).]




(c)

gravel, sand, crushed rock or dimensional stone quarries;



"municipal sewage management"

means the management of domestic sewage, domestic waste water or
liquid waste originating primarily from residences, but that may
include contributions from




(a)

holding tanks in recreational vehicles, boats and houseboats,




(b)

commercial, institutional and industrial sources, and




(c)

inflow and infiltration,


but does not include an operation exempted from the Act under section
3 of this regulation;



"municipal solid waste management"

means activities and operations for the management, treatment or
discharge of refuse that




(a)

originates from residential, commercial, institutional, demolition,
land clearing or construction sources, or




(b)

is included in a waste management plan;



"municipal waste incineration or burning industry"

means establishments engaged in the burning or incineration of waste,
except hazardous waste,




(a)

originating from residential, commercial or institutional sources or
from demolition, land clearing or construction sources, or




(b)

specified in a waste management plan;



"non-metallic mineral products industry"

means establishments engaged in manufacturing non-metallic mineral
products using a rotary kiln or dryer;



"oil and natural gas industry — large"

means establishments engaged in exploring for, producing,
transporting, storing or processing crude oil or natural gas that, in
any 15 day period,




(a)

discharge or remove 30 tonnes or more of total sulphur, not including
any mass of sulphur discharged from the facility subsurface in acid
gas, or




(b)

discharge or remove 4 tonnes or more of volatile organic carbon
compounds;



"ozone depleting substances and other halocarbons management"

means establishments, activities or operations that use ozone
depleting substances or other halocarbons or that sell, collect,
recycle or manage ozone depleting substances or other halocarbons;



"paperboard industry"

means establishments engaged in manufacturing paperboard, including
recycled paperboard and building paper;



"paper industry"

means establishments, except home-based businesses, educational
facilities and establishments of hobbyists or artisans, engaged in
manufacturing any type of paper, except paperboard and building paper,
but including recycled paper;



"particle and wafer board industry"

means establishments engaged in manufacturing boards or panels made
from very small pieces of wood bonded together, and includes, but is
not limited to, establishments that manufacture medium density fibre
board or oriented strand board;



"pipeline transport industry with approved operating plan"

means establishments that




(a)

are engaged in operating or maintaining a pipeline in British Columbia
for the transport of natural gas, and




(b)

operate under a specific environmental operating plan approved by a
director;



"pulp industry"

means establishments engaged in manufacturing wood pulp;



"refined petroleum and coal products industry"

means establishments engaged in




(a)

manufacturing petroleum or coal products, including asphalt paving
materials, emulsified asphalt, liquid asphalt, coal or coke
briquettes, coal coke, petroleum coke, synthetic gasoline from coal,
fuels, lubricating oils or greases, or




(b)

re-processing of waste oil;



"sugar processing and refining industry"

means establishments engaged in processing raw cane sugar, sugar
beets, or starches to produce sucrose, glucose or fructose;



"veneer and plywood industry"

means establishments engaged in manufacturing veneer, plywood or
laminated wood products;



"wire and wire rope fabricating industry"

means establishments engaged in manufacturing plain, coated or
uncoated steel wire, flat, twisted or braided steel wire or steel
rope.



Table






Industries, Trades, and Businesses, Operations and Activities






1
Abrasives Industry


2

Aluminum and Aluminum Alloy Products Industry



3
Asbestos Mining Industry


4

Asphalt Roof Manufacturing Industry



5
Biotechnology Industry


6

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 154/2019, s. (b).]



6.1

Burning or Incineration of Prohibited Material



7
Burning or Incineration of Waste


8

Burning or Incineration of Wood Residue



9

Cement and Lime Manufacturing Industry



10

Chemical and Chemical Products Industry



11
Clay Industry


12

Commercial Waste Management or Waste Disposal Industry



13

Contaminated Site Contaminant Management



14
Dairy Products Industry


15

Electrical or Electronic Products Industry



16
Electrical Power Industry


17

Flour, Prepared Cereal Food and Feed Industry



18
Glass and Glass Products Industry


19
Hazardous Waste Management


20
Industrial Fastener Industry


21

Metal Processing and Metal Products Manufacturing Industry



22

Metal Smelting, Iron and Steel Foundry and Metal Refining Industry



23
Mining and Coal Mining Industry


24
Municipal Sewage Management


25
Municipal Solid Waste Management


26

Municipal Waste Incineration or Burning Industry



27

Non-Metallic Mineral Products Industry



28

Oil and Natural Gas Industry — Large



29

Ozone Depleting Substances and other Halocarbons Management



30
Paperboard Industry


31
Paper Industry


32
Particle and Wafer Board Industry


33

Pipeline Transport Industry with Approved Operating Plan



34

Plastic and Synthetic Resin Manufacturing Industry



35
Pulp Industry


36

Refined Petroleum and Coal Products Industry



37

Meat By-product Processing Industry



38

Sugar Processing and Refining Industry



39
Veneer and Plywood Industry


40

Wire and Wire Rope Fabricating Industry






Schedule 2


[am. B.C. Regs. 464/2004, s. 6; 156/2005, s. (b); 220/2006, Sch.
ss. 12 and 13; 198/2007, s. 3; 246/2007,
s. (a) (ii); 210/2007, s. (b); 329/2007, s. (b);
263/2010, s. (b); 60/2012, s. (c); 245/2015, s. 2;
54/2016, App. 2, s. 2 (b); 7/2019, Sch. 6; 8/2019,
App. 2.]





Industries, trades, businesses, operations and activities defined




1

(1)


In this Schedule:



"agricultural operation"

has the same meaning as in the Code of Practice for Agricultural
Environmental Management;



"antisapstain chemicals management"

means activities and operations that apply chemicals to lumber to
protect the lumber from staining;



"aquaculture — land-based industry"

means establishments, except home-based businesses, educational
facilities and establishments of hobbyists or artisans, engaged in
land-based aquaculture, including but not limited to,




(a)

those engaged, for the purposes of land-based aquaculture, in




(i)

culturing or collecting freshwater or saltwater species of finfish or
shellfish, or




(ii)

harvesting other freshwater or saltwater products, and




(b)

those engaged in operating finfish or shellfish hatcheries, rearing
ponds or other similar facilities where finfish or shellfish are fed,
nurtured, held, maintained or reared in fresh water or salt water to
reach a size for release or for market sale;



"aquaculture — marine-based industry"

means establishments, except home-based businesses, educational
facilities and establishments of hobbyists or artisans, engaged in
saltwater aquaculture, including but not limited to




(a)

those engaged, for the purposes of saltwater aquaculture, in




(i)

culturing or collecting all species of saltwater finfish,




(ii)

trapping or otherwise catching saltwater shellfish, or




(iii)

harvesting other sea products, and




(b)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 60/2012, s. (c).]




(c)

those engaged in other activities that create waste and are incidental
to saltwater fish farms, such as net washing;



"asphalt plant industry"

means establishments that operate hot-mix asphalt plants, hot-in-place
asphalt recycling plants or operations using cutback asphalt;



"beverage industry"

means establishments, each establishment of which is engaged in
producing or manufacturing a volume of alcoholic or non-alcoholic
beverages, other than water, in excess of 16 000 000 litres per
calendar year;



"coalbed gas exploration and production industry"

means establishments, at all stages of an operation from exploration
through to abandonment, engaged in discharging to the environment
produced water or related solids from a coalbed gas operation;



"composting operations"

means composting of organic wastes or other feedstocks;



"concrete and concrete products industry"

means establishments, except home-based businesses, educational
facilities and establishments of hobbyists or artisans, engaged in
manufacturing ready-mix concrete or concrete products;



"deep well disposal"

means the disposal of waste fluids underground to porous rock
formations, through wells or other means;



"fish products industry"

means establishments, except home-based businesses, educational
facilities and establishments of hobbyists or artisans, engaged in the
processing, including but not limited to eviscerating, skinning,
filleting, breading, pre-cooking or blanching of fish, molluscs,
crustaceans, or other marine animals, and includes establishments
engaged in processing fish oil or fish roe;



"fruit and vegetable processing industry"

means establishments, except home-based businesses, educational
facilities and establishments of hobbyists or artisans, engaged in
processing fruits or vegetables by canning, drying, freezing or any
other preservation process, and includes fruit or vegetable growers
and cooperatives and producers of juices, pickles, ketchup and similar
products;



"industrial non-hazardous waste landfills"

means activities or operations, incidental to industrial operations,
for the disposal to land of solid wastes that are not hazardous waste;



"naturally occurring radioactive materials management"

means activities and operations associated with controlling or
discharging naturally occurring radioactive materials that exceed the
limits specified in Tables 5.1, 5.2 or 5.3 of the Canadian Guidelines
for the Management of Naturally Occurring Radioactive Materials
(NORMs),




(a)

prepared by the Canadian NORM Working Group of the Federal Provincial
Territorial Radiation Protection Committee,




(b)

published by authority of the Ministry of Health (Canada), and




(c)

as amended from time to time,


but does not include managing radon in buildings;



"oil and natural gas industry — small"

means establishments engaged in exploring for producing, transporting,
storing or processing crude oil or natural gas that, in any 15 day
period,




(a)

discharge or remove less than 30 tonnes of total sulphur, not
including any mass of sulphur discharged from the facility subsurface
in acid gas, and




(b)

discharge or remove less than 4 tonnes of volatile organic carbon
compounds;



"petroleum storage"

means the storage or transfer, except by pipeline, of bulk petroleum
products;



"pipeline transport industry"

means establishments that are engaged in operating or maintaining
pipelines for the transport of natural gas, crude oil or related
products or commodities, but does not include those with an operating
plan;



"placer mining industry"

means establishments that mine placer minerals as defined in section 1
of the
Mineral Tenure Act
;



"plastics and composite products industry"

means establishments, except home-based businesses, educational
facilities and establishments of hobbyists or artisans, engaged in
using synthetic resins to fabricate shapes or forms of plastic;


"poultry"
includes domesticated chickens, turkeys, ducks, geese, guinea fowl,
ratites, squab and pheasants;



"poultry processing industry"

means establishments that are engaged in processing poultry for human
consumption, but does not include establishments included in the
definition of "meat by-product processing industry" in section 2 of
Schedule 1;



"product storage — bulk solids"

means activities and operations for the storage or handling of cement,
lime, gypsum or gypsum products, elemental sulphur, coal, grain,
flour, metal concentrates, industrial minerals, fertilizers or
explosives;



"red-meat animals"

include cattle, swine, sheep, fallow deer, farmed game and farmed
bison;



"slaughter industry"

means establishments engaged in processing red-meat animals for human
consumption, but does not include establishments included in the
definition of "meat by-product processing industry" in section 2 of
Schedule 1;



"soil enhancement using wastes"

means activities and operations applying organic or inorganic wastes
to land as a soil conditioner or ground cover;



"vehicle dismantling and recycling industry"

means establishments, except home-based businesses, educational
facilities and establishments of hobbyists or artisans, engaged in
wrecking or dismantling vehicles or in recycling or disposing of parts
and other waste material from vehicles;



"vehicle, industrial machinery and parts and accessories
manufacturing industry"

means establishments engaged in manufacturing automobiles, buses,
truck chassis, truck tractors or other vehicles, industrial machinery,
vehicle engines or other transportation equipment, supplies or parts;



"wood processing industry — primary"

means establishments, except establishments that are wood processing
industry — secondary establishments, engaged in manufacturing lumber
or lumber products, including, but not limited to, dimensional lumber,
shingles and shakes;



"wood processing industry — secondary"

means establishments, except home-based businesses, educational
facilities and establishments of hobbyists or artisans, engaged in
manufacturing wood or millwork products, including, but not limited
to, finger-jointing products, prefabricated buildings, furniture,
chopsticks and pellets;



"wood treatment industry"

means establishments engaged in treating wood products against decay.




(2)

For the purposes of the definitions of "poultry processing industry"
and "slaughter industry" in subsection (1),
"processing"
includes holding, killing, defeathering, deboning, eviscerating,
chilling, cooking, packaging, curing, smoking and canning.



Table






Column 1

Industries, Trades, Businesses, Operations and Activities




Column 2

Code of Practice






1
Agricultural Operations

Code of Practice for Agricultural Environmental Management



2
Antisapstain Chemicals Management



3
Aquaculture — Land-based Industry



4

Aquaculture — Marine-based Industry




5
Asphalt Plant Industry



6
Beverage Industry



7

Coalbed Gas Exploration and Production Industry




8
Composting Operations



9

Concrete and Concrete Products Industry


Code of Practice for the Concrete and Concrete Products Industry



10
Deep Well Disposal



11
Fish Products Industry



12

Fruit and Vegetable Processing Industry




13

Industrial Non-hazardous Waste Landfills


Code of Practice for Industrial Non-Hazardous Waste Landfills
Incidental to the Wood Processing Industry



14

Naturally Occurring Radioactive Materials Management




15

Oil and Natural Gas Industry — Small




16
Petroleum Storage



17
Pipeline Transport Industry



18
Placer Mining Industry



19

Plastics and Composite Products Industry




20
Poultry Processing Industry

Code of Practice for the Slaughter and Poultry Processing
Industries



21
Product Storage — Bulk Solids



22
Slaughter Industry

Code of Practice for the Slaughter and Poultry Processing
Industries



23
Soil Enhancement Using Wastes

Code of Practice for Soil Amendments



24

Vehicle Dismantling and Recycling Industry




25

Vehicle, Industrial Machinery and Parts and Accessories
Manufacturing Industry




26

Wood Processing Industry — Primary




27

Wood Processing Industry — Secondary




28
Wood Treatment Industry






Schedule 3

[en. B.C. Reg. 46/2018, App. 2, s. 4.]

Table 1


Base Fees





Column 1

Type of Discharge


Column 2


Base Fee

($)






air
200.00


effluent
200.00


refuse
200.00


storage
200.00




Table 2


Contaminant Fees for Air Emissions





Column 1

Contaminant


Column 2


Fee per Tonne Discharged

($)






if payment date

April 1/06–

March 31/18




if payment date

after

April 1/18






ammonia
16.78
20.30


asbestos*
16.78
20.30


carbon monoxide
0.45
0.54



chlorine and chlorine oxides expressed as chlorine dioxide
equivalent

11.29
13.66


fluorides
673.60
815.06


hydrocarbons
16.78
20.30


hydrogen chloride
11.29
13.66


metals
673.60
815.06



nitrogen oxides expressed as nitrogen dioxide equivalent

11.29
13.66


phenols
16.78
20.30



sulphur and sulphur oxides expressed as sulphur dioxide equivalent

13.07
15.81


total particulate
16.78
20.30


TRS
561.33
679.21


VOCs
16.78
20.30



other contaminants not otherwise specified in this table

16.78
20.30



*Units of asbestos are equivalent to cubic metres of air emissions
per minute at a concentration of 2 fibres per cubic centimetre.





Table 3


Contaminant Fees for Effluent





Column 1

Contaminant


Column 2


Fee per Tonne Discharged

($)






if payment date

April 1/06–

March 31/18




if payment date

after

April 1/18






ammonia
102.91
124.52


AOX
273.24
330.62


arsenic
273.24
330.62


BOD
20.64
24.97


chlorine
273.24
330.62


cyanide
273.24
330.62


fluoride
102.91
124.52


metals
273.24
330.62


nitrogen and nitrates
41.13
49.77


oil and grease
68.61
83.02


other petroleum products
68.61
83.02


other solids
13.66
16.53


phenols
273.24
330.62


phosphorus and phosphates
102.91
124.52


sulphates
4.01
4.85


sulphides
273.24
330.62


surfactants
68.61
83.02


suspended solids
13.66
16.53



other contaminants not otherwise specified in this table

13.66
16.53




Table 4


Contaminant Fees for Refuse





Column 1

Contaminant


Column 2


Fee

($)






if payment date

April 1/06–

March 31/18




if payment date

after

April 1/18






refuse per tonne
0.74
0.90




[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Environmental Management Act

, S.B.C. 2003, c. 53, ss. 21, 138 and 139.]



