







B.C. Reg. 338/82

O.C. 1489/82


Filed July 30, 1982

effective August 1, 1982





This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Wildlife Act



Wildlife Act Commercial

Activities Regulation


[Last amended January 30, 2023 by B.C. Reg. 16/2023]



Division 1 — Guides





Definitions




1.01


In this Division:



"permanent identification number"

means a unique number assigned under the authority of the director to
a person who passes an assistant guide examination approved or
established by the director;



"written authorization"

means an authorization issued by a guide outfitter to an assistant
guide.

[en. B.C. Reg. 18/2015, Sch. 1, s. 1 (b).]





Age requirement for guides




1.01.01


For the purposes of section 51 (1) (a) (iii) of the

Wildlife Act

, a regional manager may not issue a guide outfitter licence to a
person unless the person is 19 years of age or older.

[en. B.C. Reg. 1/2019, Sch. 4, s. 1.]





Public liability insurance




1.01.1

(1)


For the purposes of section 51 (1) (a) (ii) of the

Wildlife Act

, a regional manager may issue a guide outfitter licence to a person
if the person has public liability insurance as follows:




(a)

the amount of the insurance must be at least $2 million;




(b)

the insurance must be applicable to the guide outfitter's guiding
business;




(c)

the insurance must cover the guiding activities of each assistant
guide employed by the guide outfitter as permitted under section 48
(1.1) of the

Wildlife Act

.




(2)

A guide outfitter must continue to have public liability insurance as
described in subsection (1) while the guide outfitter is licensed.

[en. B.C. Reg. 1/2019, Sch. 4, s. 2.]





Offence




1.02


Where a guide outfitter guides, the guide outfitter commits an offence
unless, at the time the guide outfitter




(a)

guides, or




(b)

employs an assistant guide to guide on the guide outfitter's behalf,


the guide outfitter is insured under a policy of public liability
insurance as described in section 1.01.1.


[am. B.C. Regs. 217/2000, s. 1; 18/2015, Sch. 1, s. 2; 74/2017, App.
5, s. 2.]






Repealed




1.03


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 125/90, s. 2 (b).]






Guide outfitter licence with quota




1.04


Where a regional manager issues a guide outfitter licence which
attaches a quota as a condition of licence, the regional manager may
specify




(a)

species of game and their age, sex, horn or antler classification, and
numbers of each class or classification of game that may be harvested,




(b)

the area or areas within which the harvest may occur,




(c)

the time period within which the game may be harvested, or




(d)

the number of hunters or a class of hunters that may hunt a species in
a defined time and area.

[am. B.C. Reg. 74/2017, App. 5, s. 3.]





Guide outfitter licence term and condition




1.041

(1)


It is a term and condition of every guide outfitter licence that the
holder must not block or damage a road, trail, airstrip or watercourse
or other real or personal property while providing services under a
guide outfitter licence.




(2)

Without limiting section 16.01 (i) of the Wildlife Act General
Regulation, a holder of a guide outfitter licence who contravenes the
term and condition referred to in subsection (1) of this section
commits an offence.




(3)

An offence under subsection (2) of this section is prescribed as an
offence for the purposes of section 84 (1) (b) (ii) of the

Wildlife Act

.


[en. B.C. Reg. 25/2005, s. 4; am. B.C. Reg. 1/2019, Sch. 4, s. 3.]






Offence




1.05

(1)


A guide outfitter or assistant guide commits an offence if, while
guiding for big game, the guide outfitter or assistant guide




(a)

guides more than 2 hunters at one time, or




(b)

fails to accompany a hunter the guide outfitter or assistant guide is
guiding.




(2)

A guide outfitter commits an offence if the guide outfitter




(a)

guides a hunter outside the guide outfitter's guiding area, or




(b)

allows an assistant guide employed by the guide outfitter to guide a
hunter outside the guide outfitter's guiding area.




(3)

An assistant guide employed by a guide outfitter commits an offence if
the assistant guide guides a hunter outside the guide outfitter's
guiding area.




(4)

An offence under subsection (2) or (3) of this section is prescribed
as an offence for the purposes of section 84 (1) (b) (ii) of the

Wildlife Act

.


[en. B.C. Reg. 18/2015, Sch. 1, s. 3; am. B.C. Regs. 1/2019, Sch. 4,
s. 4; 64/2021, s. 2.]






Delivery of guide report




1.05.1

(0.1)


In this section,
"guide report"
means a guide report referred to in section 55 (1) of the

Wildlife Act

.




(1)

A guide outfitter must do one of the following within 30 days after a
hunt is concluded:




(a)

submit to the regional manager the original of the completed guide
report that relates to the hunt;




(b)

submit to the regional manager, in the form and manner specified by
the director, the information in the completed guide report that
relates to the hunt.




(2)

A guide outfitter who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence.


[en. B.C. Reg. 67/2012, s. (b); am. B.C. Regs. 230/2019, Sch. 3;
112/2021, App. 4, s. 1.]






Royalties




1.06

(1)


For the purpose of section 69 of the

Wildlife Act

, royalties shall be submitted to a regional manager, not later than
March 31 of the year following the calendar year in which the animals
were taken, in the amount provided in Schedule 1.06.




(2)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 166/2001, s. 5.]




(3)

A guide outfitter is exempt from the application of section 69 of the

Wildlife Act

in relation to animals taken on or after April 1, 2005 by a resident
guided by or on behalf of the guide outfitter.


[en. B.C. Reg. 165/91, App. 1, s. 1; am. B.C. Regs. 23/2001, s. 5;
166/2001, s. 5; 72/2005.]




Schedule 1.06


[en. B.C. Reg. 36/2004, s. 1; am. B.C. Reg. 52/2018, Sch. 4, s. 1.]


Royalties




(1)
on a mountain sheep
$   250.00


(2)

Repealed.

[B.C. Reg. 52/2018, Sch. 4, s. 1.]




(3)
on a mountain goat
150.00


(4)
on a moose
125.00


(5)
on an elk
125.00


(6)
on a caribou
125.00


(7)
on a cougar
125.00


(8)
on a black bear
75.00


(9)
on a deer
50.00


(10)
on a wolf
50.00







Repealed




1.07


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 125/90, s. 2 (b).]






Repealed




1.08


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 72/97, s. (b).]






Repealed




1.09


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 125/90, s. 2 (b).]






Guide outfitter licence fees




1.10

(1)


The guide outfitter licence fee payable for a guide outfitter licence
issued for a term




(a)

up to and including 12 months is set out in Schedule 1.10 (1), and




(b)

greater than 12 months is set out in Schedule 1.10 (1.1).




(2)

The guide outfitter licence fee described in subsection (1) must be
paid on or before the first day of the term of the guide outfitter
licence.




(3)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 127/2017, App. 11, s. 1 (a).]


[en. B.C. Reg. 100/2014, s. 2; am. B.C. Regs. 18/2015, Sch. 1, s. 4;
127/2017, App. 11, s. 1 (a).]




Schedule 1.10


[en. B.C. Reg. 36/2004, s. 2; am. B.C. Regs. 100/2014, s. 3; 18/2015,
Sch. 1, s. 5; 115/2015, s. (e); 127/2017, App. 11, s. 1 (b).]


Guide Licence Fees and Surcharges








Fee


Surcharge





(1)

guide outfitter licence — term up to and including 12 months

$   450.00
$   50.00


(1.1)

guide outfitter licence — term greater than 12 months

1 750.00
250.00


(2)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 18/2015, Sch. 1, s. 5 (a).]





(3)
guide outfitter licence application fee
25.00
—



(4) and (5) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 115/2015, s. (e).]





(6)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 127/2017, App. 11, s. 1 (b).]





(7)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 18/2015, Sch. 1, s. 5 (a).]





(8)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 127/2017, App. 11, s. 1 (b).]










Offences




1.11


An applicant for a guide outfitter licence commits an offence if the
applicant




(a)

fails to pay




(i)

the guide outfitter licence fee in accordance with section 1.10 (2),




(ii)

the surcharge in accordance with section 1.14 (2), or




(iii)

both the fee and surcharge referred to in subparagraphs (i) and (ii),
and




(b)

guides, or employs an assistant guide to guide on the applicant's
behalf.

[en. B.C. Reg. 100/2014, s. 4.]





Fees




1.12

(1)


An applicant for a guide outfitter licence who has not previously held
a guide outfitter licence must, at the time the applicant submits the
application to the regional manager, pay the fee set out in Schedule
1.10 (3).




(2)-(3)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 115/2015, s. (e).]


[en. B.C. Reg. 100/2014, s. 4; am. B.C. Reg. 115/2015, s. (e).]






Repealed




1.13


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 125/90, s. 2 (b).]






Surcharge




1.14

(1)


The surcharge payable for a guide outfitter licence issued for a term




(a)

up to and including 12 months is set out in Schedule 1.10 (1), and




(b)

greater than 12 months is set out in Schedule 1.10 (1.1).




(2)

The surcharge described in subsection (1) must be paid on or before
the first day of the term of the guide outfitter licence.

[en. B.C. Reg. 100/2014, s. 4.]





Repealed




1.15


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 444/88.]






Qualifications of assistant guides




1.16


For the purposes of section 48 (1.1) (a) and (2.1) (a) of the

Wildlife Act

, the prescribed qualifications for a person to guide for game as an
assistant guide are as follows:




(a)

the person passes an assistant guide examination approved or
established by the director;




(b)

the person pays any fees approved by the director for the examination;




(c)

the person may lawfully work in British Columbia as an assistant
guide.


[en. B.C. Reg. 18/2015, Sch. 1, s. 6; am. B.C. Regs. 107/2017;
112/2021, App. 4, s. 1.]






Written authorizations




1.17


For the purposes of section 48 (1.2) of the

Wildlife Act

, the written authorization that a guide outfitter issues to an
assistant guide must be legible and contain the following information:




(a)

the name, birth date and permanent address of the assistant guide;




(b)

the permanent identification number of the assistant guide;




(c)

the name of the guide outfitter;




(d)

the number of the guide outfitter's licence;




(e)

the date the written authorization is issued;




(f)

the date the term of the guide outfitter's licence ends;




(g)

the statement: "(name of assistant guide) has been hired as an
assistant guide.";




(h)

any restrictions on the assistant guide when guiding for game on
behalf of the guide outfitter contained in the contract between the
guide outfitter and the assistant guide, such as restrictions relating
to seasons, areas or species;




(i)

a signed statement by the guide outfitter that, to the best of the
guide outfitter's knowledge, the information contained in the written
authorization is true, accurate and complete.


[en. B.C. Reg. 18/2015, Sch. 1, s. 6; am. B.C. Reg. 112/2021, App. 4,
s. 1.]






Issuing new written authorizations




1.18


For the purposes of section 48 (1.2) (b) of the

Wildlife Act

, the prescribed circumstances are as follows:




(a)

the original written authorization is lost or destroyed;




(b)

the information referred to in section 1.17 (a), (c), (d), (f) or (h)
changes.


[en. B.C. Reg. 18/2015, Sch. 1, s. 6; am. B.C. Reg. 112/2021, App. 4,
s. 1.]






Age requirement for assistant guides




1.19


For the purposes of section 48 (2.1) (h) of the

Wildlife Act

, the prescribed requirement that a person must meet to guide for game
as an assistant guide is that the person must be 18 years of age or
older.


[en. B.C. Reg. 18/2015, Sch. 1, s. 6; am. B.C. Reg. 112/2021, App. 4,
s. 1.]






Records




1.20

(1)


For the purposes of section 48 (1.3) (a) of the

Wildlife Act

, the required records are a copy of every written authorization the
guide outfitter issues.




(2)

For the purposes of section 48 (1.3) (b) of the

Wildlife Act

, a copy of a written authorization must be kept for a period of 7
years from the date the authorization is issued.


[en. B.C. Reg. 18/2015, Sch. 1, s. 6; am. B.C. Reg. 112/2021, App. 4,
s. 1.]




Division 2 — Fur Traders, Taxidermists and Tanners





Records to be kept




2.01

(0.1)


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 52/2018, Sch. 4, s. 2 (a).]




(1)

For the purpose of section 71 of the

Wildlife Act

, a taxidermist, tanner, licensed fur trader, meatcutter or an
operator of a cold storage plant must, immediately upon receiving
wildlife or wildlife parts, record what was received, whether directly
or through an agent, describing




(a)

the total number of wildlife or parts of them of each species
acquired,




(b)

the date of receipt of the wildlife or parts of them,




(c)

the name and address of the person from whom wildlife or parts of them
were acquired, and




(d)

the legal authority that the person claims to have to possess the
wildlife or parts of them.




(1.1)

For the purpose of section 71 of the

Wildlife Act

, in addition to the requirements of subsection (1) of this section, a
meatcutter or an operator of a cold storage plant must, immediately
upon receiving the wildlife or wildlife parts referred to in that
subsection, record




(a)

the species and sex of the wildlife or wildlife parts, and




(b)

the Management Unit from which the wildlife or wildlife parts were
taken.




(2)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 52/2018, Sch. 4, s. 2 (a).]


[en. B.C. Reg. 186/90, s. 1; am. B.C. Regs. 254/92, s. 1; 197/99, s.
2; 130/2016, App. 3, s. 1; 127/2017, App. 7, s. 1; 52/2018, Sch. 4, s.
2.]






Reports relating to grizzly bears




2.01.1

(1)


A taxidermist or tanner who receives a grizzly bear or a part of a
grizzly bear must submit a report to the director within 10 days after
receipt of the bear or part.




(2)

A report under subsection (1) must include




(a)

the information set out in section 2.01 (1) (a) to (d), and




(b)

if the bear or part is acquired from an individual, the address of the
primary residence of the individual.




(3)

A person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence.

[en. B.C. Reg. 52/2018, Sch. 4, s. 3.]





Fees and surcharges




2.02

(1)


The fees and surcharges payable for a trapping licence or fur trader's
licence shall be those in Schedule 2.02.




(2)

A duplicate copy of a licence may be issued if the holder of the
licence




(a)

completes a statement of loss in the form specified by the director,
and




(b)

pays the fee set out in Schedule 2.02.


[am. B.C. Regs. 217/2000, s. 4 (a) and (b); 36/2004, s. 3.]




Schedule 2.02


[en. B.C. Reg. 36/2004, s. 4; am. B.C. Reg. 238/2007.]








Fee $


Surcharge $





(1)
for an annual trapping licence
32.00
8.00


(1.1)
for a five year trapping licence
160.00
40.00


(2)
for a fur trader's licence
90.00
10.00


(3)

for a fur trader to trade from a place of business in another
Province

400.00
—


(4)
for a duplicate trapping licence
10.00
—


(5)

for a duplicate fur trader's licence

10.00
—







Repealed




2.03


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 238/2007, s. (b).]






Term of annual licence




2.04


An annual trapping licence, fur trader's licence or fur trader's
(transient) licence is valid from and including the later of




(a)

July 1 of the year in which it is issued, or




(b)

the date on which it is issued

to the following June 30.
[en. B.C. Reg. 238/2007, s. (c).]





Term of five year trapping licence




2.04.1


A five year trapping licence is valid from and including the later of




(a)

July 1 of the year in which it is issued, or




(b)

the date on which it is issued


to June 30 of the year 5 years after the year in which the licence was
issued.

[en. B.C. Reg. 238/2007, s. (d).]





Offence




2.05


Where a person possesses more than one current trapping licence, the
person commits an offence.

[am. B.C. Reg. 74/2017, App. 5, s. 4.]





Licensed fur trader to make return




2.06

(1)


For the purpose of section 71 (2) (b) of the

Wildlife Act

, a licensed fur trader must, for each calendar month, make a full and
complete return on the form contained in Schedule 2.06 of all wildlife
or wildlife parts that have been received during that calendar month
for processing, manufacturing, curing, selling or trading.




(2)

A return under this section must be submitted within 30 days after the
last day of the month to which the report relates.




(3)

A person who contravenes this section commits an offence.


[en. B.C. Reg. 273/84, s. 1; am. B.C. Regs. 254/92, s. 2; 112/2021,
App. 4, s. 1.]




Schedule 2.06

[en. B.C. Reg. 165/91, App. 1, s. 2.]







Lynx pelt measurements to be submitted




2.07

(1)


A licensed fur trader shall measure each lynx pelt that the licensed
fur trader acquires and shall submit all measurements taken as
specified on the form and in the manner authorized by the director.




(2)

A person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence.


[en. B.C. Reg. 191/87, s. 1; am. B.C. Regs. 74/2017, App. 5, s. 5;
64/2021, s. 2.]






Bear parts prohibitions — general




2.08

(1)


A person commits an offence by possessing any of the following parts
of a bear:




(a)

a gall bladder or bile;




(b)

male genitalia separated from the carcass and the hide.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), a person who possesses a gall bladder or bile
of a bear does not commit an offence under subsection (1) (a) if




(a)

the gall bladder is attached to the carcass,




(b)

the bile has not been extracted from the gall bladder, and




(c)

the person killed the bear no more than 48 hours previously and has
not yet gutted the bear.




(2.1)

An offence under subsection (1) of this section is prescribed as an
offence for the purposes of section 84 (1) (b) (ii) of the

Wildlife Act

.




(3)

A person commits an offence by trafficking in any of the following
parts of a bear:




(a)

a gall bladder or bile;




(b)

male genitalia separated from the carcass and the hide;




(c)

a paw separated from the carcass and the hide.




(4)

An offence under subsection (3) of this section is prescribed as an
offence for the purposes of section 84 (1) (a) (ii) of the

Wildlife Act

.


[en. B.C. Reg. 52/2018, Sch. 4, s. 4; am. B.C. Reg. 1/2019, Sch. 4, s.
5.]






Trafficking prohibited




2.09

(1)


A person commits an offence by trafficking in dead wildlife or a part
of wildlife.




(1.1)

An offence under this section is prescribed as an offence for the
purposes of section 84 (1) (b) (ii) of the

Wildlife Act

.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), a person does not commit an offence if the
dead wildlife or part of wildlife was disposed of under section 46 of
the

Financial Administration Act

.




(3)

Despite subsection (1), a person does not commit an offence if the
dead wildlife or part of wildlife was killed lawfully




(a)

in British Columbia during an open season under, and in compliance
with, the

Wildlife Act

and regulations under that Act, or




(b)

outside of British Columbia and was subsequently brought into British
Columbia in a lawful manner.




(4)

Subsection (1) does not apply to




(a)

trafficking in cast antlers,




(b)

wildlife lawfully kept or held under the Game Farm Regulation, B.C.
Reg. 5/2015, or the Fur Farm Regulation, B.C. Reg. 8/2015,




(c)

dead wildlife or part of wildlife that has been processed or
manufactured into a product that no longer resembles the original dead
wildlife or part of wildlife, or




(d)

dead wildlife or a part of wildlife respecting which a permit has been
issued under section 2 (p), (x) or (y) of the Permit Regulation, B.C.
Reg. 253/2000, if the person who has the right of property or
possession in the wildlife or part retains the permit as evidence of
that right.




(5)

Nothing in this section exempts a person from section 22 of the

Wildlife Act

or section 2.08.




(6)

The burden of proving an entitlement under subsection (2) or (3) is on
the person claiming the exemption.


[en. B.C. Reg. 197/99, s. 4; am. B.C. Regs. 217/2000, s. 5; 253/2000,
s. (f); 5/2015, s. (e); 8/2015, s. (e); 1/2019, Sch. 4, s. 6;
112/2021, App. 4, s. 2.]






Exemption




2.10


A person is exempt from section 73 (1) of the

Wildlife Act

if the person's activity as a furtrader is confined to selling pelts
taken by the person as




(a)

the holder of a hunting licence, or




(b)

a person exempted from holding a hunting licence


to the holder of a fur trader's licence.


[en. B.C. Reg. 217/2000, s. 6; am. B.C. Reg. 64/2021, s. 3.]




Division 3 — Trapping and Traplines





Interpretation




3.01


In this Division:


"bait"
means anything, including meat, cereal, cultivated crops, a restrained
animal or any manufactured product or material, that may attract
wildlife, but does not include a decoy;



"compound crossbow"

means a crossbow on which the bow string passes through a series of
pulleys;


"egg trap"
means a holding device set in a manner designed to capture a raccoon
by a front paw;


"foot snare"
means a snare that is set in a manner designed to capture an animal by
the foot or leg;



"foot-hold trap"

means a trap or device, other than a snare, that is set in a manner
designed to capture the animal for which it is set by the foot or leg;



"killing snare"

means a snare that is set in a manner designed to capture an animal by
the neck;



"killing trap"

means a trap or trapset that is designed to kill an animal;



"management unit"

or
"M.U."
means an area designated as a management unit by
B.C. Reg. 64/96, the Management Unit Regulation;



"modified foot-hold trap"

means a trap that has




(a)

a minimum space of 5 mm between the jaws of the trap when in a closed
position,




(b)

manufactured pads of a rubber-like substance fastened to the trap
jaws, or




(c)

lamination of the trap jaws to increase the surface area of the jaw
face;


"Region 1"
means the area within M.U.s 1-1 to 1-15;


"Region 2"
means the area within M.U.s 2-1 to 2-19;


"Region 3"
means the area within M.U.s 3-12 to 3-20 and 3-26 to 3-46;


"Region 4"
means the area within M.U.s 4-1 to 4-9 and 4-14 to 4-40;


"Region 5"
means the area within M.U.s 5-1 to 5-15;


"Region 6"
means the area within M.U.s 6-1 to 6-30;


"Region 7"
means the area within M.U.s 7-1 to 7-58;


"Region 8"
means the area within M.U.s 8-1 to 8-15 and 8-21 to 8-26;


"trapping"
means the act of setting or placing a trap in an operative condition
or killing by the use of a firearm.


[en. B.C. Reg. 454/82; am. B.C. Regs. 273/84, s. 2, 295/85, s. 1;
247/86, s. 1; 191/87, s. 2; 205/88, s. 1; 175/89, s. 1; 186/90, s. 3;
254/92, s. 3; 192/96, s. 1; 197/99, s. 5; 169/2001, s. 1; 169/2020,
App. 6, s. 1.]






Repealed




3.02


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 168/90, s. 3.]






Repealed




3.03


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 295/85, s. 2.]






Prohibition




3.04

(1)


A person commits an offence where the person




(a)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 197/99, s. 6 (a).]




(a.1)

uses a solidly fastened foot-hold trap designed to trap wolves if
there is more than 60 cm of chain connecting the trap to the place
where it is fastened,




(a.2)

uses a trap to trap wolves from April 1 to October 14 in Region 4 or
in any of M.U.s 3-12, 3-13, 3-17 to 3-20, 3-26 to 3-33, 3-35 to 3-42,
5-1 to 5-6 and 5-12 to 5-14, other than a trap




(i)

described in Column 3 of Schedule 3.04, and




(ii)

for trapping wolf as listed in Column 1 of Schedule 3.04,




(a.3)

uses a killing snare to trap wolves in Region 4 from April 1 to
November 30,




(b)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 153/83, s. (f).]




(c)

traps beaver, otter, mink or muskrat on land by means of a foot-hold
trap, unless the trap is equipped with a submerging device,




(d)

uses foot-hold traps that have teeth or other projections on the jaws
of the traps,




(e)

uses a killing snare on land, unless the snare is




(i)

equipped with a locking device,




(ii)

designed to catch squirrels or species of the family
Leporidae
, or




(iii)

a mechanically powered killing snare,




(f)

traps a wolverine, skunk or squirrel, except by means of a killing
trap, killing snare or live box trap,




(g)

sets spring poles or running poles unless they are equipped with a
killing trap,




(g.1)

sets a killing snare to trap wolves or coyotes, in Region 5, within 10
m of any bait placed by the person,




(h)

uses a trap equipped with a spearing device,




(i)

traps a black bear




(i)

except by the use of a rifle, shotgun or bow,




(ii)

with a crossbow (except a compound crossbow) having a pull of less
than 68 kg,




(iii)

with a compound crossbow having a pull of less than 45 kg at full
draw,




(iv)

with a crossbow having a bolt weighing less than 16.2 g,




(v)

with a bow having a pull of less than 18 kg within the archer's draw
length, or




(vi)

with a bow using an arrow with a broadhead less than 2.2 cm at the
widest point,




(j)

traps a fox or coyote, except by means of a killing trap, killing
snare, modified foot-hold trap, live box trap or foot snare,




(j.1)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 115/2018, App. 5, s. 1 (c).]




(j.2)

traps a bobcat except by means of a killing snare or live box trap or
by means of a trap




(i)

described in Column 3 of Schedule 3.04, and




(ii)

for trapping bobcat as listed in Column 1 of Schedule 3.04,




(j.3)

traps a wolf except by means of a killing snare, killing trap or live
box trap or by means of a restraining trap




(i)

described in Column 3 of Schedule 3.04, and




(ii)

for trapping wolf as listed in Column 1 of Schedule 3.04,




(k)

uses a snare made of wire heavier than 20 gauge unless licensed or
authorized to trap,




(l)

uses a snare made of braided wire, unless licensed or authorized to
trap,




(m)

uses any Conibear trap larger than #220 for land animal sets within
any municipality,




(n)

traps on private property without the written permission of the owner,




(o)

uses a foot-hold trap that is smaller than size No. 1 1/2 or the
equivalent for the purpose of trapping muskrats, unless the trap is
modified with a minimum weight of 150 grams (5.25 oz.) applied in such
a manner as to remain attached to the trap during the course of normal
use,




(p)

traps a fur bearing animal and if the animal is alive when the person
checks the trap, the person does not immediately release or kill the
animal,




(q)

traps a raccoon except by means of a killing snare, live box trap or
egg trap, or by means of a trap




(i)

described in Column 3 of Schedule 3.04, and




(ii)

for trapping raccoon as listed in Column 1 of Schedule 3.04,




(r)

uses a rat trap unless the bait and trigger are completely covered,
with an opening not larger than 4.5 cm wide and 5 cm high,




(s)

uses recorded or electronic calls for the purpose of trapping a fur
bearing animal, other than for trapping wolf, coyote, lynx or bobcat,




(t)

traps a beaver by means of a restraining trap or a killing trap except
for a killing trap




(i)

described in Column 3 of Schedule 3.04,




(ii)

for trapping beaver as listed in Column 1 of Schedule 3.04, and




(iii)

positioned as listed in Column 2 of Schedule 3.04,




(u)

traps a fisher except by means of a live box trap or killing snare, or
by means of a trap




(i)

described in Column 3 of Schedule 3.04, and




(ii)

for trapping fisher as listed in Column 1 of Schedule 3.04,




(v)

traps a lynx except by means of a live box trap, killing snare,
killing trap, or by means of a trap




(i)

described in Column 3 of Schedule 3.04, and




(ii)

for trapping lynx as listed in Column 1 of Schedule 3.04,




(w)

traps a marten except by means of a live box trap or killing snare, or
by means of a trap




(i)

described in Column 3 of Schedule 3.04, and




(ii)

for trapping marten as listed in Column 1 of Schedule 3.04,




(x)

traps a muskrat by means of a killing trap except for a killing trap




(i)

described in Column 3 of Schedule 3.04,




(ii)

for trapping muskrat as listed in Column 1 of Schedule 3.04, and




(iii)

positioned as listed in Column 2 of Schedule 3.04,




(y)

traps an otter by means of a killing trap except for a killing trap




(i)

described in Column 3 of Schedule 3.04, and




(ii)

for trapping otter as listed in Column 1 of Schedule 3.04, or




(z)

traps a weasel except by means of a live box trap, killing snare or
killing trap, or by means of a trap




(i)

described in Column 3 of Schedule 3.04, and




(ii)

for trapping weasel as listed in Column 1 of Schedule 3.04.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), a person may trap a fur bearing animal by the
use of a firearm.




(3)

A person commits an offence if the person traps




(a)

with a rifle using




(i)

a full metal jacketed non-expanding bullet, or




(ii)

a tracer, incendiary or explosive bullet,




(b)

with a shotgun using a tracer or incendiary shot shell,




(c)

a black bear




(i)

by placing bait, or




(ii)

by using a dead animal or a part of it as bait,




(d)

a black bear, or a wolf not caught in a trap or snare,




(i)

with a rifle using a rimfire cartridge, or




(ii)

with a shotgun




(A)

less than 20 gauge, or




(B)

using a shot shell loaded with shot smaller than the shot size 1 Buck.




(3.1)

An offence under subsection (3) (c) of this section is prescribed as
an offence for the purposes of section 84 (1) (b) (ii) of the

Wildlife Act

.




(4)

The prohibited hours for trapping wildlife using a firearm are from
one hour after sunset on any day until one hour before sunrise of the
day following.




(5)

Despite subsection (4), a person who holds a trapping licence or a
person exempted from holding a trapping licence while trapping on a
registered trapline may use a firearm during the prohibited hours to
kill a fur bearing animal caught in a trap.




(6)

A person who traps wolf, black bear, lynx, bobcat or wolverine with a
shotgun loaded with single-projectile ammunition is exempt from
section 26 (1) (h) of the

Wildlife Act

.


[en. B.C. Reg. 454/82; am. B.C. Regs. 153/83, ss. (f) and (g); 335/83,
Sch. D, s. 1; 273/84, s. 4; 295/85, s. 3; 247/86, s. 2; 191/87, s. 3;
205/88, ss. 2 and 3; 175/89, s. 2; 202/91, App. 1, ss. 2 and 3;
254/92, s. 4; 291/95, s. 1; 228/98, s. 1; 197/99, s. 6; 217/2000, s.
7; 268/2003, s. 2; 478/2004, s. (a); 223/2005, s. 1; 171/2006, App. s.
(a); 170/2007, s. 1; 109/2011, Sch. s. 1; 80/2012, App. 7, s. 1;
198/2013, App. 3, s. 1; 95/2015, App. 2; 130/2016, App. 3, s. 2;
74/2017, App. 5, s. 4; 115/2018, App. 5, s. 1; 1/2019, Sch. 4, s. 7;
169/2020, App. 6, s. 2; 64/2021, s. 2; 167/2021, App. s. 1; 157/2022,
App. 7, s. 1.]




Schedule 3.04


[en. B.C. Reg. 175/2010, App. 5, s. 1; am. B.C. Regs. 164/2011;
198/2013, App. 3, s. 2; 130/2016, App. 3, s. 3; 115/2018, App. 5, s. 2;
169/2020, App. 6, s. 3; 112/2021, App. 4, s. 3; 157/2022, App. 7, s. 2.]





Item



Column 1

Species to be trapped




Column 2

Trap Position




Column 3

Trap




1
Beaver
Underwater or on land

Bélisle Classique 330

Bélisle Super X 280

Bélisle Super X 330

BMI BT 300

BMI 280 Body Gripper

BMI 330 Body Gripper

Breathe Easy Live Beaver Trap

Bridger 330

Comstock 12 X 18 X 39 Swim Through Beaver Cage

Dam Beaver Live Beaver Trap

Duke 280

Duke 330

Ezee Set Live Beaver Trap

Hancock Live Beaver Trap

Killing snare

Koro "Klam" Live Beaver Trap

LDL C280

LDL C280 Magnum

LDL C330

LDL C330 Magnum

Rudy 280

Rudy 330

Sauvageau 1000-11F

Sauvageau 2001-8

Sauvageau 2001-11

Sauvageau 2001-12

Species-Specific 330 Dislocator Half Magnum

Species-Specific 440 Dislocator Half Magnum

Submersion sets using limb-holding traps

Woodstream Oneida Victor Conibear 280

Woodstream Oneida Victor Conibear 330



1.1
Bobcat
N/A

Bélisle Footsnare #6

Bélisle Sélectif

Bélisle Super X 280

Bélisle Super X 330

BMI 220 Body Gripper

BMI 220 Magnum Body Gripper

BMI 280 Body Gripper

BMI 280 Magnum Body Gripper

Bridger 220

Bridger 280 Magnum Body Gripper

Duke 280

LDL C220

LDL C220 Magnum

LDL C280 Magnum

LDL C330

LDL C330 Magnum

Oneida Victor #1.5 Soft Catch equipped with 4 coil springs

Oneida Victor #1.75, offset, laminated jaws equipped with 2 coil
springs

Oneida Victor #3 Soft Catch equipped with 2 coil springs

Oneida Victor #3 Soft Catch equipped with 4 coil springs

Oneida Victor #3 equipped with 3/16-inch offset, double rounded
steel jaw laminations (3/16-inch on topside of jaw and 1/4-inch on
underside of jaws), with 2 coil springs

Rudy 330

Sauvageau 2001-8

Sauvageau 2001-11

Woodstream Oneida Victor Conibear 330



2
Fisher
N/A

Bélisle Super X 120

Bélisle Super X 160

Bélisle Super X 220

Koro #2

LDL C160 Magnum

LDL C220 Magnum

Rudy 120 Magnum

Rudy 160 Plus

Rudy 220 Plus

Sauvageau 2001-5

Sauvageau 2001-6

Sauvageau 2001-7

Sauvageau 2001-8



3
Lynx
N/A

Bélisle Footsnare #6

Bélisle Sélectif

Bélisle Super X 280

Bélisle Super X 330

BMI 220 Body Gripper

BMI 220 Magnum Body Gripper

BMI 280 Body Gripper

BMI 280 Magnum Body Gripper

Bridger 220

Bridger 280 Magnum Body Gripper

Duke 280

LDL C220

LDL C220 Magnum

LDL C280 Magnum

LDL C330

LDL C330 Magnum

Oneida Victor #3 Soft Catch equipped with 2 coil springs

Oneida Victor #3 Soft Catch equipped with 4 coil springs

Oneida Victor #3 equipped with a minimum of 8 mm thick, non-offset
steel jaws, 4 coil springs and an anchoring swivel centre mounted
on a base plate

Rudy 330

Sauvageau 2001-8

Sauvageau 2001-11

Woodstream Oneida Victor Conibear 330




4
Marten
N/A

Bélisle Super X 120

Bélisle Super X 160

BMI 126 Magnum Body Gripper

Koro #1

Koro #2

LDL B120 Magnum

LDL C160 Magnum

Northwoods 155

Oneida Victor Conibear 120-3 Magnum Stainless Steel

Rudy 120 Magnum

Rudy 160 Plus

Sauvageau 2001-5

Sauvageau 2001-6

Sauvageau C120 Magnum



5
Muskrat
On land

Bélisle Super X 110

Bélisle Super X 120

BMI 120 Body Gripper

BMI 120 Body Gripper Magnum

BMI 126 Body Gripper Magnum

Bridger 120

Bridger 120 Magnum Body Gripper

Bridger 155 Magnum Body Gripper

Duke 120

Killing snare

Koro Large Rodent Double Spring

Koro Muskrat Trap

LDL B120

LDL B120 Magnum

Oneida Victor 120 Stainless Steel

Oneida Victor Conibear 110-3 Magnum Stainless Steel

Oneida Victor Conibear 110-3 Stainless Steel

Oneida Victor Conibear 120-3 Magnum Stainless Steel

Oneida Victor Conibear 120-3 Stainless Steel

Ouell 411-180

Ouell RM

Rudy 110

Rudy 120

Rudy 120 Magnum

Sauvageau 2001-5

Sauvageau C120 "Reverse Bend"

Sauvageau C120 Magnum

Triple M

WCS SHORTY Tube Trap

WCS Tube Trap Int'l

Woodstream Oneida Victor Conibear 110

Woodstream Oneida Victor Conibear 120



6

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 130/2016, App. 3, s. 3 (e).]



7
Muskrat
Underwater

Any jaw type trap (body gripping or foot-hold) set as a submersion
set that exerts clamping force on a muskrat and that maintains a

muskrat underwater

Koro Muskrat Trap

submarine cages



7.1
Otter
N/A

Bélisle Super X 220

Bélisle Super X 280

Bélisle Super X 330

LDL C220

LDL C220 Magnum

LDL C280 Magnum

Sauvageau 2001-8

Sauvageau 2001-11

Sauvageau 2001-12

Rudy 220 Plus

Rudy 280

Rudy 330

Woodstream Oneida Victor Conibear 220

Woodstream Oneida Victor Conibear 280

Woodstream Oneida Victor Conibear 330



8
Raccoon
N/A

Bélisle Classique 220

Bélisle Super X 160

Bélisle Super X 220

Bélisle Super X 280

BMI 160 Body Gripper

BMI 220 Body Gripper

BMI 280 Body Gripper

BMI 280 Magnum Body Gripper

Bridger 160

Bridger 220

Bridger 280 Magnum Body Gripper

Duke 160

Duke 220

Koro #2

LDL C160

LDL C160 Magnum

LDL C220

LDL C220 Magnum

LDL C280 Magnum

Northwoods 155

Oneida Victor C-220 Stainless Steel

Rudy 160

Rudy 160 Plus

Rudy 220

Rudy 220 Plus

Sauvageau 2001-6

Sauvageau 2001-7

Sauvageau 2001-8

Species-Specific 220 Dislocator Half Magnum

Woodstream Oneida Victor Conibear 160

Woodstream Oneida Victor Conibear 220



9
Weasel
N/A

Bélisle Super X 110

Bélisle Super X 120

BMI #60

BMI 120 Body Gripper Magnum

BMI 126 Body Gripper Magnum

Bridger 120

Bridger 120 Magnum Body Gripper

Bridger 155 Magnum Body Gripper

Koro Large Rodent Double Spring

Koro Muskrat Trap

Koro Rodent Trap

LDL B120 Magnum

Ouell 411-180

Ouell 3-10

Ouell RM

Rudy 120 Magnum

Sauvageau C120 Magnum

Sauvageau C120 "Reverse Bend"

Sauvageau 2001-5

Triple M

Victor Rat Trap

WCS Shorty Tube Trap

WCS Tube Trap Int'l

Woodstream Oneida Victor Conibear 110

Woodstream Oneida Victor Conibear 120



10
Wolf
N/A

Bélisle Footsnare #8

BFV Beer no 1 PLUS

Bridger Alaskan #5 Offset and Laminated Jaws

Bridger Alaskan #5 Rubber Jaws

Bridger Brawn #9 Rubber Jaws

LAY 76 Laminated

Livestock Protection EZ Grip No. 7

MB 750 Alaskan OS (3/8')

Muskwa no 9 Laminated Offset

Oneida Victor #3 Soft Catch equipped with 4 coil springs, a

minimum 8 mm thick base plate and an anchoring swivel

mounted on the base plate

Ruby Red Wolf 4 1/2

X Treme Wolf








Examination of traplines




3.05

(1)


A holder of a licence, permit or other authorization to trap commits
an offence by failing to examine




(a)

every 72 hours, every holding or non-killing trap, except an egg trap,
set by that licence holder,




(b)

every 24 hours, every egg trap set by that licence holder, and




(c)

every 14 days, every killing trap or killing snare set by that licence
holder.




(2)

A holder of a licence, permit or other authorization to trap on
private property commits an offence unless the person examines the
holding or non-killing traps the person has set on private property at
least once every 24 hours.


[en. B.C. Reg. 454/82; am. B.C. Regs. 273/84, s. 5; 254/92, s. 5;
193/2002, s. 1; 74/2017, App. 5, s. 4.]






Trapping near a dwelling




3.06


A person who traps within 200 m of a dwelling commits an offence
unless the person is using,




(a)

if the trap is set on land, a live box trap or egg trap, or




(b)

if the trap is set on or in water,




(i)

a Conibear trap not larger than size No. 330, or equivalent,




(ii)

foot-hold traps not larger than size No. 2, or




(iii)

submarine traps.


[en. B.C. Reg. 454/82; am. B.C. Regs. 217/2000, s. 8; 74/2017, App. 5,
s. 4; 169/2020, App. 6, s. 4.]






Open seasons




3.07

(1)


Subject to section 3.08, the open season for the trapping of each
species of fur bearing animal in each region is that set out in
Schedule 3.07.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), there is no open season for a black bear less
than 2 years old or any black bear accompanying it.




(3)

Despite subsection (1), there is no open season on white or blue
(glacier) coloured black bears.


[en. B.C. Reg. 454/82; am. B.C. Regs. 247/86, s. 3; 217/2000, s. 9 (a)
and (b); 163/2008, App. 4, s. 2; 137/2009, s. 2; 52/2018, Sch. 4, s.
5; 167/2021, App. s. 1.]




Schedule 3.07


[en. B.C. Reg. 163/2008, App. 4, s. 3; am. B.C. Regs. 175/2010, App. 5,
s. 2; 80/2012, App. 7, s. 2; 72/2014, App. 4, s. 1; 130/2016, App. 3, s.
4; 115/2018, App. 5, s. 3; 192/2019, App. 3; 169/2020, App. 6, s. 5;
220/2021, s. 1.]






Region 1


Region 2


Region 3


Region 4


Region 5


Region 6


Region 7


Region 8



Beaver
Oct. 1–Apr. 30
Oct. 15–Apr. 30
Oct. 15–Apr. 30
Oct. 15–Apr. 30
Oct. 15–Apr. 30
Oct. 31–May 31*
Oct. 1–May 31
Oct. 15–Apr. 30


Black Bear
No open season
No open season
Oct. 1–May 31*
Oct. 1–May 31
Oct. 15–May 15*
Sept. 15–May 31*
Oct. 1–May 31
Oct. 1–May 31


Bobcat
No open season
Nov. 15–Feb. 15
Nov. 15–Feb. 15
Nov. 15–Feb. 15
Nov. 15–Feb. 15
No open season
No open season
Nov. 15–Feb. 15


Coyote
Oct. 15–Mar. 31*
Sept. 10–Jun. 15
Oct. 15–Mar. 31
Oct. 15–Mar. 31*
Oct. 15–Mar. 31
Oct. 15–Mar. 31
Oct. 15–Mar. 31*
Oct. 15–Mar. 31


Fisher
No open season
No open season
No open season
No open season
No open season
Nov. 1–Feb. 15*
Nov. 1–Feb. 15*
No open season


Fox
Oct. 15–Feb. 28*
Oct. 15–Feb. 28
Oct. 15–Feb. 28
Oct. 15–Feb. 28
Oct. 15–Mar. 31
Oct. 15–Feb. 28
Oct. 15–Feb. 28
No open season


Lynx
No open season
No open season
Nov. 15–Feb. 15
Nov. 15–Feb. 15
Nov. 15–Feb. 15
Nov. 1–Feb. 15
Nov. 15–Feb. 15
Nov. 15–Feb. 15


Marten
Nov. 1–Feb. 15
Nov. 1–Feb. 15
Nov. 1–Feb. 15
Nov. 1–Feb. 15
Nov. 1–Feb. 15
Nov. 1–Feb. 28
Nov. 1–Feb. 28*
Nov. 1–Feb. 15


Mink
Nov. 1–Feb. 15
Nov. 15–Feb. 15
Nov. 1–Feb. 15
Nov. 1–Feb. 15
Nov. 1–Feb. 15
Nov. 1–Feb. 28*
Nov. 1–Feb. 15*
Nov. 1–Feb. 15


Muskrat
Oct. 15–Apr. 30
Nov. 15–Feb. 15
Oct. 15–Apr. 30
Oct. 15–Apr. 30
Oct. 15–Apr. 30
Oct. 31–May 31*
Oct. 1–May 31
Oct. 15–Apr. 30


River Otter
Nov. 15–Mar. 31
Oct. 15–Apr. 30*
Oct. 15–Apr. 30
Oct. 15–Apr. 30
Oct. 15–Apr. 30
Oct. 1–May 31
Oct. 1–May 31
Nov. 1–Apr. 15


Raccoon
Oct. 1–Mar. 31
Oct. 1–Mar. 31
Oct. 1–Mar. 31
Oct. 1–Mar. 31
Oct. 1–Mar. 31
Oct. 1–Mar. 31*
Oct. 1–Mar. 31
Oct. 1–Mar. 31


Skunk
Oct. 15–Feb. 28*
Oct. 15–Feb. 28
Oct. 15–Feb. 28
Oct. 15–Feb. 28
Oct. 15–Feb. 28
Oct. 15–Feb. 28
Oct. 15–Feb. 28
Oct. 15–Feb. 28



Douglas, Northern Flying and Red Squirrel

Nov. 1–Mar. 15
Nov. 1–Mar. 15
Nov. 1–Mar. 15
Nov. 1–Mar. 15
Nov. 1–Mar. 15
Nov. 1–Mar. 31*
Nov. 1–Mar. 31
Nov. 1–Mar. 15


Weasel
No open season
Nov. 1–Feb. 15*
Nov. 1–Feb. 15
Nov. 1–Feb. 15
Nov. 1–Feb. 15
Nov. 1–Feb. 28*
Nov. 1–Feb. 28
Nov. 1–Feb. 15


Wolf
Sept. 10–June 30
Sept. 10–Jun. 15*
Oct. 15–Mar. 31*
Oct. 15–Mar. 31*
Oct. 15–Mar. 31*
Oct. 15–Mar. 31
Oct. 15–May 31*
Oct. 15–Mar. 31


Wolverine
No open season
No open season
Nov. 1–Jan. 31
No open season
Nov. 1–Jan. 31
Nov. 1–Feb. 28*
Nov. 1–Feb. 28
No open season




* See Schedule 3.08 for different season dates in part of the region.





Open seasons




3.08

(1)


The open season for the trapping of fur bearing animals within
portions of regions are those set out in Schedule 3.08.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), the open season for trapping wolves in M.U.s
3-12, 3-13, 3-17 to 3-20, 3-26 to 3-33, 3-35 to 3-42, 5-1 to 5-6 and
5-12 to 5-14 from April 1 to October 14 is restricted to private land
only.


[en. B.C. Reg. 454/82; am. B.C. Regs. 247/86, s. 5; 163/2008, App. 4,
s. 2; 109/2011, Sch. s. 2; 130/2016, App. 3, s. 5; 167/2021, App. s.
1.]




Schedule 3.08


[en. B.C. Reg. 223/2005, s. 3; am. B.C. Regs. 155/2006, s. 2; 170/2007,
s. 4; 175/2010, App. 5, s. 3; 109/2011, Sch. s. 3; 80/2012, App. 7, s.
3; 293/2012, App. 4, s. 1; 130/2016, App. 3, s. 6; 115/2018, App. 5, s.
4; 112/2021, App. 4, s. 4; 220/2021, s. 2.]





Region 1

Coyote

No open season in M.U.s 1-1 to 1-13



Fox

No open season in M.U.s 1-1 to 1-13



Skunk

No open season in M.U.s 1-1 to 1-13




Region 2

River Otter

Open season in M.U.s 2-2 to 2-5 and 2-12 to 2-16 is November 15 to
February 28



Weasel

No open season for long-tailed weasel in M.U.s 2-03, 2-04, 2-06,
2-18 and 2-19



Wolf

No open season in M.U.s 2-2 to 2-4, 2-7 to 2-10 and 2-17 to 2-19




Region 3


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 80/2012, App. 7, s. 3.]



Wolf

No open season in M.U.s 3-45 and 3-46




Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 220/2021, s. 2 (a).]




Region 4

Wolf

No closed season in M.U.s 4-2 to 4-5, 4-20 to 4-22, 4-24 to 4-26,
4-34 to 4-37 and 4-40



Coyote

Open season in M.U. 4-1 if a person is using a killing snare
December 1 to March 31




Region 5

Black Bear

Open season in M.U.s 5-2 and 5-15 is October 1 to May 31




Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 220/2021, s. 2 (a).]



Wolf

No closed season in M.U.s 5-1 to 5-6, 5-12 to 5-14




Region 6

Black bear

Open season in M.U.s 6-3 and 6-11 to 6-14 is October 15 to May 15



Wolverine

Open season in M.U.s 6-3, 6-11 and 6-14 is November 1 to February
15



Fisher

No open season in M.U.s 6-1 to 6-18 and 6-28 to 6-30



Mink

Open season in M.U.s 6-3, 6-11 and 6-14 is November 15 to February
15



Weasel

No open season in M.U.s 6-12 and 6-13



Raccoon

Open season in M.U.s 6-12 and 6-13 is January 1 to December 31



Beaver

Open season in M.U.s 6-12 and 6-13 is January 1 to December 31



Muskrat

Open season in M.U.s 6-12 and 6-13 is January 1 to December 31




Douglas, Northern Flying and Red Squirrel


Open season in M.U.s 6-12 and 6-13 is January 1 to December 31




Region 7

Mink

Open season in M.U.s 7-2 to 7-18, 7-23 to 7-30 and 7-37 to 7-41 is
November 1 to February 28. Open season in M.U.s 7-49 to 7-54 is
October 15 to February 15



Marten

Open season in M.U.s 7-49 to 7-54 is November 1 to March 15



Fisher

No open season in M.U.s 7-1 to 7-18, 7-23 to 7-30 and 7-37 to 7-41



Wolf

There is no closed season for wolf in those portions of M.U.s 7-19
to 7-22,

7-31 to 7-36 and 7-42 to 7-58 below the 1 100 m elevation



Coyote

There is no closed season for coyote in those portions of M.U.s
7-19 to 7-22,

7-31 to 7-36 and 7-42 to 7-58 below the 1 100 m elevation



Black Bear

The open season in M.U.s 7-2 to 7-18, 7-23 to 7-30 and 7-37 to
7-41 is September 15 to May 31



Lynx

Open season in M.U.s 7-12 to 7-18, 7-23 to 7-30 and 7-37 to 7-40
is November 1 to February 15




Region 8


See Schedule 3.07







Repealed




3.08.1


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 186/90, s. 6.]




Schedule 3.08.1

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 186/90, s. 7.]




Fur royalty




3.09

(1)


For the purposes of section 73 of the

Wildlife Act

, the royalty per pelt or skin is set at 3% of the average price paid
at auction in Canada for the pelt or skin of the particular species
during the preceding three years, as determined by the director
responsible for the wildlife program.




(2)

A person who kills a fur bearing animal under the authority of a
licence to hunt wildlife is exempt from paying a royalty in relation
to the pelt or skin of that animal, unless the person intends to offer
the pelt or skin for sale.




(3)

Despite subsection (2), a person who kills a fur bearing animal under
the authority of a licence to hunt wildlife is exempt from paying a
royalty in relation to the pelt or skin if the person sells the pelt
or skin to a licensed fur trader.


[en. B.C. Reg. 454/82; am. B.C. Regs. 217/2000, s. 10 (a); 47/2003, s
(a); 74/2017, App. 5, s. 6; 64/2021, s. 2; 112/2021, App. 4, s. 1;
12/2022, s. (c) (i).]




Schedule 3.09

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 47/2003, s. (b).]




Trapper education course




3.10







(a)

A person who traps commits an offence unless that person, since July
1, 1982, has completed a trapper education course approved by the
director.




(b)

Paragraph (a) does not apply to a person authorized to trap under




(i)

section 26 (2) of the

Wildlife Act

, or




(ii)

the Designation and Exemption Regulation, B.C. Reg. 168/90.


[en. B.C. Reg. 228/98, s. 5; am. B.C. Reg. 112/2021, App. 4, s. 1.]






Exemption re helicopter use




3.11


The holder of a licence or permit to trap fur bearing animals or a
person who is exempted from holding a licence is, for the purposes of
trapping, exempt from the operation of section 27 (2) (b) of the

Wildlife Act

, and a person who transports that person or fur bearing animals taken
by that person is, for those purposes, exempt from the operation of
section 27 (2) (b) of that Act.


[en. B.C. Reg. 153/83, s. (h); am. B.C. Regs. 74/2017, App. 5, s. 7;
64/2021, s. 4; 112/2021, App. 4, ss. 1 and 5.]






Repealed




3.12


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 340/2005, s. 12.]






Exemption re carcasses from motor vehicle collisions




3.12.1

(1)


In this section:



"motor vehicle"

includes a locomotive;


"trapper"
means a person who




(a)

holds a licence or permit to trap fur bearing animals, or




(b)

is exempt from holding a licence or permit to trap fur bearing
animals.




(2)

For the purpose of possessing and transporting any mule deer,
white-tailed deer, elk, moose or black bear, or wildlife described in
Schedules B and C of the Designation and Exemption Regulation, B.C.
Reg. 168/90, a trapper is exempt from sections 33 (2) and 37 of the

Wildlife Act

if




(a)

the wildlife is dead as a result of colliding with a motor vehicle,
other than a motor vehicle operated by the trapper,




(b)

the meat of the wildlife is unfit for human consumption,




(c)

the carcass of the wildlife is to be used only




(i)

by the trapper, and




(ii)

as bait for traps set under the authority of the trapper's licence or
licence exemption, and




(d)

at the time of possession and transport, the trapper has, on the
trapper's person, the trapper's current trapping licence or proof of
the trapper's licence exemption.




(3)

A trapper who possesses or transports wildlife under subsection (2)
must, within 30 days after taking possession,




(a)

complete a report on a form provided for this purpose by the Director
of the Fish and Wildlife Recreation and Allocation Branch of the
ministry responsible for this regulation,




(b)

deliver the completed form to the address shown on the form, and




(c)

maintain a copy of the completed form for at least 2 years.




(4)

A person who fails to comply with this section commits an offence.


[en. B.C. Reg. 442/2004; am. B.C. Regs. 64/2021, s. 3; 112/2021, App.
4, s. 1.]






Exemption — bait for traplines




3.12.2

(1)


For the purpose of possessing and transporting any wildlife listed in
Schedule 3.12.2 or wildlife described in Schedule B or C of the
Designation and Exemption Regulation, B.C. Reg. 168/90, a licensed
trapper or a person exempt from holding a trapping licence is exempt
from sections 33 (2) and 37 of the

Wildlife Act

if




(a)

the wildlife carcass is to be used only




(i)

by the trapper, and




(ii)

as bait for traps set under the authority of the trapper's licence or
licence exemption, and




(b)

at the time of possession and transport, the trapper has, on the
trapper's person,




(i)

the trapper's current trapping licence or proof of licence exemption,
and




(ii)

a permit issued under section 2 (c) (iii) of the Permit Regulation,
B.C. Reg. 253/2000, permitting the trapper to trap that wildlife
during the closed season.


[en. B.C. Reg. 171/2006, App., s. (b); am. B.C. Regs. 64/2021, ss. 3
and 4; 112/2021, App. 4, s. 1.]




Schedule 3.12.2


[en. B.C. Reg. 171/2006, App. s. (c); am. B.C. Reg. 157/2022, App. 7, s.
3.]





Common Name


Scientific Name




Mammals




Beaver

Castor canadensis



Coyote

Canis latrans




Weasel (long-tailed, least, short-tailed)


Mustela frenata, Mustela nivalis, Mustela richardsonii



Fox

Vulpes vulpes




Marmot (except Vancouver Island Marmots)


All species of genus Marmota except
Marmota vancouverensis



Mink

Mustela vison



Mole

All species of the family
Talpidae



Muskrat

Ondatra zibethicus



Prairie dog

All species of the genus
Cynomys



River Otter

Lutra canadensis




Squirrel (ground, flying, Douglas, red)


Tamiasciurus hudsonicus
,
Tamiasciurus douglasii
,
Glaucomys sabrinus
, all species of the genus
Spermophilu
s.








Boundaries




3.13


The boundaries of a registered trapline shall be defined by the
regional manager.

[en. B.C. Reg. 153/83, s. (h).]





Abandonment of trapline




3.14

(1)


No person shall continue to hold a registered trapline unless the
person




(a)

renews the person's licence,




(b)

carries on active trapping on the person's registered trapline to the
satisfaction of the regional manager,




(c)

obtains permission from the regional manager to temporarily
discontinue the use of the person's registered trapline for a period
not exceeding 2 years, or




(d)

uses or causes the use of the person's trapline by a licensed trapper
or a person exempted from holding a licence.




(2)

Where a person fails to comply with subsection (1), the regional
manager shall cancel the registration of the person's trapline.


[en. B.C. Reg. 291/95, s. 4; am. B.C. Reg. 64/2021, ss. 2 and 3.]






Use of trapline




3.15


For section 3.14, a person fails to use the person's trapline where
within a year the person fails to take from the trapline




(a)

fur bearing animals of a value of $200, or




(b)

50 pelts,


except where it is unreasonable to expect that value of animals or
number of pelts to be taken from the trapline.


[en. B.C. Reg. 153/83, s. (h); am. B.C. Regs. 74/2017, App. 5, s. 8;
64/2021, ss. 2 and 3; 12/2022, s. (c) (ii).]






Compulsory inspection and reporting




3.16

(1)


A person commits an offence if the person takes or kills by trapping




(a)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 268/2003, s. 4.]




(b)

in Region 5, 6 or 7, a wolverine,




(c)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 157/2022, App. 7, s. 4 (a).]




(d)

in Region 2, a bobcat,




(e)

in Region 1 or M.U.s 2-5, 2-6 and 2-11 to 2-16, a wolf, or




(f)

in any M.U., a fisher,


unless the person reports the killing to an officer




(g)

within 15 days after the last day of the continuous season in which
the fur bearing animal was killed, and




(h)

if applicable, before the fur bearing animal is exported from the
Province.




(2)

For the purpose of subsection (1),
"reports"
means providing the following information:




(a)

the date and location of kill;




(b)

the type of trap and set used;




(c)

the number of days the trap was set before the fur bearing animal was
killed;




(d)

the sex and age class of the fur bearing animal.




(3)

A person commits an offence if the person takes or kills by trapping




(a)

in Region 3, a wolverine,




(b)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 157/2022, App. 7, s. 4 (d).]




(b.1)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 220/2021, s. 3 (b).]




(c)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 16/2023, App. 4, s. 2 (d).]




(d)

in Region 4, 5 or 8, a lynx, or




(e)

in Region 4, 5 or 8, a bobcat,




(f)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 169/2020, App. 6, s. 7 (b).]


unless the person submits the prescribed parts of the fur bearing
animal and the prescribed information to an officer




(g)

within 15 days after the last day of the continuous season in which
the fur bearing animal was killed, and




(h)

if applicable, before the fur bearing animal is exported from the
Province.




(4)

For the purposes of subsection (3),




(a)

the pelt of the fur bearing animal is prescribed, and




(b)

the prescribed information is the following:




(i)

the location and date of the kill;




(ii)

the type of trap and set used;




(iii)

the number of days the trap was set before the fur bearing animal was
killed;




(iv)

the sex and age class of the fur bearing animal.




(5)

A person commits an offence if, outside the open season for a fur
bearing animal, the person takes or kills the fur bearing animal by
trapping, unless the person complies with subsection (6) as
follows:




(a)

if the fur bearing animal is a fisher, within 30 days after the fur
bearing animal is killed;




(b)

in the case of any other fur bearing animal, on or before June 30
of the licence year in which the fur bearing animal is trapped.




(6)

For the purposes of subsection (5), the person must submit the
following to an officer:




(a)

the entire carcass and the pelt of the fur bearing animal;




(b)

the location and date of the kill;




(c)

the type of trap and set used;




(d)

the number of days the trap was set before the fur bearing animal was
killed.


[en. B.C. Reg. 197/99, s. 9; am. B.C. Regs. 193/2002, s. 5; 268/2003,
s. 4; 223/2005, s. 4; 170/2007, s. 5; 130/2016, App. 3, s. 7;
158/2020, Sch. 3; 169/2020, App. 6, s. 7; 220/2021, s. 3; 157/2022,
App. 7, s. 4; 16/2023, App. 4, s. 2.]






Compulsory report of fur bearing animals killed




3.16.1

(1)


In this section:



"FWID number"

has the same meaning as in the Wildlife Act General Regulation;



"trapping year"

means the period beginning July 1 and ending June 30.




(2)

A person who holds a trapping licence issued under section 40.1 of the

Wildlife Act

must submit a report to the director, in accordance with this section,
respecting fur bearing animals killed under the licence during the
trapping year.




(3)

The report must include the person's trapping licence number and FWID
number.




(4)

If the person did not kill a fur bearing animal under the licence
during the trapping year, the report must




(a)

state that no fur bearing animals were killed, and




(b)

be submitted on or before July 31 of the following trapping year.




(5)

If the person killed one or more fur bearing animals under the licence
during the trapping year, the report must include all of the following
information for each fur bearing animal killed:




(a)

the management unit in which the fur bearing animal was killed and
either




(i)

the trapline number, or




(ii)

a statement that the kill occurred on private property;




(b)

the month in which the fur bearing animal was killed;




(c)

the fur bearing animal's species and sex.




(6)

The information required under subsection (5)




(a)

may be submitted, with respect to one or more fur bearing animals
killed during the trapping year, at any time during the trapping year,
and




(b)

must be submitted, with respect to all fur bearing animals killed
during the trapping year, on or before July 31 of the following
trapping year.




(7)

For greater certainty, the reporting requirements under this section
are in addition to those imposed under section 3.16.




(8)

A person commits an offence if the person fails to make a report as
required under this section with respect to




(a)

the trapping year that begins July 1, 2022, and




(b)

each subsequent trapping year.

[en. B.C. Reg. 167/2021, App. s. 2.]





Trapping on private property




3.17

(1)


A person may trap on private property which is not within the
boundaries of a registered trapline area providing




(a)

the person possesses a valid trapping licence, and




(b)

the person has obtained the written permission of the property owner.




(2)

A person who violates subsection (1) (a) or (b) commits an offence.


[en. B.C. Reg. 205/88, s. 8; am. B.C. Reg. 74/2017, App. 5, s. 9.]






Registration of trapline




3.18


A regional manager may, by public auction or sealed tender from
persons who qualify under section 42 of the

Wildlife Act

, select the successful applicant for registration of a trapline.


[en. B.C. Reg. 360/89; am. B.C. Reg. 112/2021, App. 4, s. 1.]






Trapline registration transfer fee




3.19


Where the rights to a registered trapline are transferred to a person
or group of persons, that person or group of persons shall pay a
transfer fee of $50.00.


[en. B.C. Reg. 124/90, App. 2, s. 2; am. B.C. Reg. 36/2004, s. 5.]






Quotas and bag limits




3.20


Notwithstanding sections 10 and 11 of the Hunting Regulation (B.C.
Reg. 190/84), a licensed trapper commits an offence if, by authority
of a trapping licence, the licensed trapper takes more than




(a)

two black bear in one licence year.




(b)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 80/2012, App. 7, s. 4.]




(c)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 192/96, s. 5.]


[en. B.C. Reg. 214/93, s. 6; am. B.C. Regs. 206/94, s. 6; 192/96, s.
5; 80/2012, App. 7, s. 4; 64/2021, s. 2.]






Use of nails or spikes




3.21


A person who lawfully sets a trap for fur bearing animals under a
licence, permit or exemption from the requirement for a licence or
permit is authorized to make reasonable use of a nail or spike to
secure the trap to any timber in the area in which a trap may be
lawfully set by that person.


[en. B.C. Reg. 202/91, App. 1, s. 7; am. B.C. Reg. 167/2021, App. s.
1.]




Division 4





Repealed




4.01


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 217/2000, s. 11.]




Division 5 — Transporters





Definitions




5.01


In this Division:



"licence activity report"

means the form prescribed in Appendix 2;



"transporter"

means a person who, for money or other compensation, transports a
hunter to, from or between locations so that the hunter can hunt but
does not include a person who operates a scheduled commercial flight
or a chartered aircraft unless the person also provides ground
transportation, accommodation or other ground services to the hunter.

[en. B.C. Reg. 25/2005, s. 5.]





Transporter licence




5.02

(1)


A person must not act as a transporter unless the person holds a
transporter licence issued under section 15 of the

Wildlife Act

.




(2)

A person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence.




(2.1)

An offence under this section is prescribed as an offence for the
purposes of section 84 (1) (b) (ii) of the

Wildlife Act

.




(3)

Subsection (1) does not apply to a person who is licensed as a guide
outfitter.


[en. B.C. Reg. 25/2005, s. 5; am. B.C. Reg. 1/2019, Sch. 4, s. 8.]






Eligibility for transporter licence




5.03

(1)


A person is eligible for a transporter licence only if




(a)

the person




(i)

is a citizen or permanent resident of Canada,




(ii)

carries public liability insurance in an amount of not less than $2
million that is




(A)

applicable to the person's transporting business,




(B)

in effect at the time of the application for a transporter licence,
and




(C)

effective for the term of the transporter licence,




(iii)

satisfies the director that the person has a good working knowledge of
the

Wildlife Act

and regulations by achieving a passing grade on an examination set by
the director for that purpose, and




(iv)

submits to the director a transporter licence application and
management plan, in the form and with the information required by the
instructions set out in Appendix 1, along with the application fee
under Schedule 5.05 (2), and




(b)

based on the applicant's application and management plan, the director
is satisfied that the person's transporter activities are unlikely to
have a significant negative impact on wildlife.




(2)

An applicant for a transporter licence must submit the application
fee, and the transporter licence application and management plan,
required under subsection (1) (a) (iv) at least 3 months before the
date the licence is required.




(3)

The director need not make a decision on an application submitted
under this section for 3 months after the date on which the director
is in receipt of the application fee, application and management plan.

[en. B.C. Reg. 25/2005, s. 5.]





Transporter licence conditions




5.04

(1)


The following are terms and conditions of every transporter licence:




(a)

a holder of a transporter licence must not block or damage a road,
trail, airstrip or watercourse or other real or personal property
while providing transporter services under a transporter licence;




(b)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 1/2019, Sch. 4, s. 9 (a).]




(c)

a holder of a transporter licence must maintain the public liability
insurance required under section 5.03 for the term of the licence.




(2)

The director may make anything set out in the transporter licence
application or management plan submitted under section 5.03 a term or
condition of the licence issued on the basis of that application and
management plan.




(3)

Without limiting section 16.01 (m) of the Wildlife Act General
Regulation, a holder of a transporter licence who contravenes either
of the following commits an offence:




(a)

a term and condition referred to in subsection (1) (a) of this
section;




(b)

a term or condition imposed by the director under subsection (2) of
this section.




(4)

An offence under subsection (3) of this section is prescribed as an
offence for the purposes of section 84 (1) (b) (ii) of the

Wildlife Act

.


[en. B.C. Reg. 25/2005, s. 5; am. B.C. Reg. 1/2019, Sch. 4, s. 9.]






Transporter licence fees




5.05

(1)


The fee and surcharge payable for a transporter licence are those set
out in Schedule 5.05 (1).




(2)

A transporter licence fee and surcharge must be paid on or before
April 1.




(3)

If an applicant for a transporter licence fails to pay the fee and
surcharge in the time specified under subsection (2), the holder must
pay the late payment fee set out in Schedule 5.05 (3) with the amount
required under subsection (2).




(4)

A duplicate copy of a transporter licence may be issued if the licence
holder




(a)

signs a declaration affirming that the licence has been lost, stolen
or destroyed, and




(b)

pays the fees under Schedule 5.05 (4) and (5) for a duplicate
transporter licence and declaration.

[en. B.C. Reg. 25/2005, s. 5.]



Schedule 5.05

[en. B.C. Reg. 25/2005, s. 5.]








Fee


Surcharge





(1)

transporter licence — April 1 to March 31 or any portion of that
period

$450
$50


(2)

transporter licence application fee

$25
—


(3)

transporter licence late payment fee

$25
—


(4)
duplicate transporter licence fee
$10
—


(5)
declaration for s. 5.05 (4) (a)
$10
—







Transporter licence reporting requirement




5.05.1

(1)


A holder of a transporter licence must file in accordance with
subsection (2) a completed licence activity report setting out the
information required by the form of that report in relation to the
holder's transporting activities for the year.




(2)

A licence activity report must be filed




(a)

with the regional manager indicated on the transporter licence, and




(b)

by December 31 of each year.




(3)

A holder of a transporter licence who fails to file a licence activity
report in accordance with this section commits an offence.

[en. B.C. Reg. 1/2019, Sch. 4, s. 10.]





Non-renewal of licence: non-use of area




5.06


If the holder of a transporter licence has not applied for a new
licence by the expiry date of the licence, the director




(a)

must review the transporter's operation, and




(b)

after affording the transporter an opportunity to be heard, may advise
that the person is not eligible for a transporter licence for the new
licence year,


and, if the director so advises, the person is not eligible for a
transporter licence for that year whether or not they satisfy the
requirements in section 5.03 (1).

[en. B.C. Reg. 25/2005, s. 5.]



Appendix 1


[en. B.C. Reg. 25/2005, s. 6; am. B.C. Regs. 4/2010, s. 3; 112/2021,
App. 4, ss. 6 and 7.]


Transporting Application





Transporting services may be provided only in defined Transport
Areas and when authorized by a valid Transporter Licence issued by
the minister responsible for the

Wildlife Act.





Please complete this application and prepare a detailed management
plan in the form attached and submit them to the WLAP regional
office for the area to which your application relates:




Vancouver Island Region

2080 A Labieux Road

Nanaimo BC V6T 6J9


Skeena Region

3726 Alfred Avenue

Bag 5000 Smithers BC V0J 2N0




Lower Mainland Region

2 − 10470 − 152nd Street

Surrey BC V3R 0Y3


Omineca Region

4051 − 18th Avenue

Prince George BC V2N 1B3




Thompson Region

1259 Dalhousie Drive

Kamloops BC V2C 5Z5


Peace Region

400 − 10003 − 110
th
Avenue

Fort St. John, BC V1J 6M7




Kootenay Region

205 Industrial Road G

Cranbrook BC V1C 7G5


Okanagan Region

102 Industrial Place

Penticton BC V2A 7C8




Cariboo Region

400 − 640 Borland Street

Williams Lake BC V2G 4T1





Supplying insufficient information will delay evaluation.




Note:




1. Submission of the application does not entitle the
applicant to any rights and is not permission to provide
transporting services.




2. More information may be requested from the applicant
during the review of this application.




3. WLAP reserves the right to refuse any application.












Application Form

Name(s) and Mailing Address


FOR OFFICE USE ONLY











Surname
Given Name
Middle Name





Date Received




WLAP File Number:




Company Name  [  ]



BC Incorp. No., BC Registered No.


GST Registration Number






Mailing Address

Postal Code:





Your File Number:


E-mail Address

Canadian Citizen or Permanent Resident

Yes [  ] No [  ]




Home Phone

(          )


Business Phone

(          )


Fax Number

(          )


Age: 19 or over

Yes [  ] No [  ]








Years of experience as (check one or more as applies):

A transporter

A principal of a transporter business

An employee of a transporter business



[  ] _______________

[  ] _______________

[  ] _______________









Applicant/Agent's Signature(s)


Fee Enclosed [  ]

Date












PLEASE RETAIN A COPY OF THIS APPLICATION FOR
YOUR RECORDS





Please attach a detailed Business Management Plan
that addresses the following:

Proposed activity and purpose of the service or
activity; Maps of transport area and associated
structures − permanent or temporary













Management Plan Form


The Management Plan Form, when completed, describes the proposed
operation of an applicant for a transporter licence. The purpose of this
form is to:


• obtain information detailing an applicant's proposed operation,


• act as a resource document to be used by the ministry to evaluate and
adjudicate applications for transporter licences, and


• provide the basis for transporter licence conditions.


If a transporter licence is issued on the basis of the information
provided in this form, the completed form becomes part of the
transporter licence documentation and

the director may use the information to set terms and conditions in
the transporter licence

. Failure of the licence holder or the licence holder's employees to
comply with licence conditions may lead to administrative action or
prosecution.


For further information or assistance regarding the completion of this
form, please contact the nearest regional office of the Ministry of
Environment.


1
This management plan covers the period from ...........................
to ............................


2
Name of transporter licence applicant
.........................................................................


3
Contact information (address, phone
number)..............................................................


4
Description of the operation and activities offered (please fill in each
field below and attach separate pages as necessary):


(4.1)
General description of operation


(a) describe location and setting of operation and types of
services and activities offered,


(b) describe applicant's experience as an outdoor operator,


(c) describe key areas of concern respecting environmental impact,
and


(d) describe overlap of the applicant's operation with other uses
in the area.


(4.2)
General Area of Operation
Describe and attach a map, 1:250,000 or 1:50,000 scale, setting out the
boundary of operations.


(4.3)
Specific Areas and Routes of Operations
Describe and attach maps, 1:20,000 or 1:50,000 scale, indicating where
specific transport activities will occur. Mark all trails and routes to
be used by the operation.


(4.4)
Site Layout Plans for Intensive Sites
(if applicable) Describe intensive use sites here and attach detailed
maps, 1:1,000 or 1:5,000 scale, showing the position of all existing and
proposed structures, facilities or other improvements to be placed on
Crown land.


(Note: all maps must have a north arrow, legend and scale)


(4.5)
Facilities
(if applicable)


(a) Describe each facility that has at least two permanent
structures, excluding pit toilets, and that is the main location or one
of the main locations for the applicant's operation ("base facility").
Include an overview of the facility and indicate whether the facility is
on private or Crown land and whether the facility is within a Provincial
Park. Cross-reference to the attached map information with GPS
locations.


(b) Describe each facility that has only one permanent structure,
excluding pit toilets, and that the applicant's operation uses for
temporary accommodation, storage of supplies or fuel or as an emergency
shelter or an improved helicopter landing site ("satellite facilities").
Include an overview of each satellite facility and indicate whether the
facility is on private or Crown land and whether it is within a
Provincial Park. Cross-reference to the attached map information with
GPS locations.


(c) Describe each site that has no permanent improvements or
structures and that the applicant's operation uses on a non-exclusive
basis for temporary tenting accommodation or the storage of supplies
("tent/spike camps"). Include an overview of each tent/spike camp and
indicate whether the camp is on private or Crown land and whether it is
within a Provincial Park. Cross-reference to the attached map
information with GPS locations.


(4.6)
Improvements
at Base Facilities and Satellite Facilities (if applicable) List the
existing improvements — including, without limiting this, trails, tent
sites, cabins, docks, staging areas) Cross-reference to the attached map
information with GPS locations.


(4.7)
Client access
Explain how your clients will access your operation, including modes of
transportation and access routes.


5
Planned Improvements
(if applicable) Describe the construction, dismantling, maintenance,
remediation or clean-up work that will be done at the transporter's base
operation and satellite camps and whether timber must be removed for the
construction or maintenance. Provide details on the dimensions,
construction schedule, and if applicable, sources of potable water and
method of waste and sewage disposal.


6
Environmentally Sensitive Areas
(if applicable) Describe environmentally sensitive areas, including,
without limiting this, riparian areas, streams, water bodies, mineral
licks and hot springs and indicate their location on the attached maps.
Indicate how* impacts on the natural state of these environmentally
sensitive zones will be avoided,


(a) if they are not within 100 metres of facilities, sites or
trails associated with the transporter operation, and


(b) if they are within 100 metres of facilities, sites or trails
associated with the transporter operation.


(* For example, limits on the type of transporting activity and on the
frequency, intensity and duration of activities, and limits on the
number of clients per month for a given area or route.)


7
Potential Impacts on Wildlife
Describe potential adverse impacts of the operation on sensitive
wildlife populations and wildlife habitat in the proposed general area
of the operation and how* these impacts will be avoided or mitigated.


(* For example, limits on the type of transporting activity and on the
frequency, intensity and duration of activities, and limits on the
number of clients per month for a given area or route.)


(Review the Wildlife Guidelines for Backcountry Tourism / Commercial
Recreation:

http://www.env.gov.bc.ca/wld/twg/documents/wildlife_guidelines_recreation_may06_v2.pdf

, which describes how the Wildlife Guidelines are applied to Commercial
Recreation operations and provides a generalized approach for operators
in addressing wildlife issues on Crown land.)


Attach the information required as outlined in the Guidelines.


Ensure that any information supplied by a qualified professional is
appropriately signed and sealed.


8
Summary of First Nations Contact
(You must contact each First Nation that has an interest or a potential
interest in the area of your application and provide the following in
relation to each contact. If there are no First Nations that have a
potential interest in the application area and you have confirmed this
with the Ministry of Environment, proceed to item (8.2) and then to item
10.)


(8.1) List all of the First Nations that have a potential interest
in the application area.


(8.2) Have you confirmed the list with the Ministry of Environment?
If so, when and with whom was the confirmation made?


(8.3) Summarize all of the discussions you have undertaken with
each First Nation to date, including:

(a) dates and the names of key contacts,

(b) a description of any concerns that the First Nation raised
regarding potential impacts that your operation might have on their
interests,


(c) a description of any options suggested by either you or the
First Nation that would serve to resolve their concerns, and


(d) a description of the nature of any formal agreement reached
with a First Nation.


(8.4) Attach copies of correspondence with each First Nation and a
copy of any agreement described in item (8.3) (d).


9
Avoiding or Mitigating Impacts on Aboriginal Rights and Title
(If applicable, and based on information provided in item 8 (8.3),
describe the measures that will be taken to resolve concerns of First
Nations relating to their asserted aboriginal rights and title.)


10
Overlaps with existing uses and plans


(10.1) If applicable, identify any overlaps within the proposed
general area of the operation with

(a) mineral tenures,
(b) timber tenures and forest use,

(c) land use planning, park use planning or local or regional
zoning requirements, and


(d) commercial recreation operations and guide outfitter
territories.


(10.2) If your operation overlaps with anything listed under item
(10.1), describe how access and activities may have to be coordinated
with other users and describe any agreements made with other users to
achieve this.


(10.3) If your operation overlaps with a guide outfitter territory,
you are required to contact the identified guides to discuss this
overlap. If there are concerns regarding the overlap you will be
required to work out an agreement with the identified guide outfitters.


(A final decision will be made by the Director as to boundaries for
transporter areas.)


11
Hazards and Safety Plan
You are required to have a Hazards and Safety Plan that meets or exceeds
Workers Compensation Board and approved industry standards.


By signing below, I
....................................................................................................[
print name
]


(a) certify that I have prepared a Hazards and Safety Plan which
meets or exceeds Workers Compensation Board and approved industry
standards,


(b) acknowledge that my areas of use may overlap with those of
existing commercial recreation operators or guide outfitting
territories, and that, if so, I must contact these existing operators,


(c) declare that my transporting operation will comply in all
respects with this management plan,


(d) declare that the information provided in this form is true and
complete, and


(e) request that the director issue a transporting licence for the
year .............. in my name.


.................................................................................

signature of applicant


.................................................................................

date signed



Appendix 2


[en. B.C. Reg. 1/2019, Sch. 4, s. 11; am. B.C. Reg. 112/2021, App. 4, s.
8.]





Definition




1


In this Appendix,
"FWID number"
has the same meaning as in the Wildlife Act General Regulation.






Licence activity report




2


The following form is prescribed for the purposes of section 5.05.1
(1):









[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Wildlife Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 488, ss. 16, 108 and 109.]



