







B.C. Reg. 12/2015

M15/2015


Deposited January 21, 2015






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Wildlife Act


Wildlife Management Areas Regulation


[includes amendments up to B.C. Reg. 285/2018, December 17, 2018]





Wildlife management areas




1


The areas of land under the minister's administration named and
described in the Schedule are designated as wildlife management areas.






Critical wildlife area




2


All the land in the Green Mountain Wildlife Management Area is
designated as a critical wildlife area for the Vancouver Island marmot
(
Marmota vancouverensis
).




Schedule


[am. B.C. Regs. 177/2016; 272/2016; 123/2018; 285/2018.]


Bert Brink Wildlife Management Area


All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in New Westminster District
and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official
Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 1 Tube 1994; except
Canadian National Railway Land Titles Office Plans 3886 (5 Tube 620) and
4587.


The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 915
hectares.


Boundary Bay Wildlife Management Area


All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in New Westminster District
and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official
Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 11 Tube 1941.


The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 11 774
hectares.


Chilanko Marsh Wildlife Management Area


All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Range 3, Coast District
and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official
Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 12 Tube 1941.


The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 716
hectares.


Cluxewe Wildlife Management Area


All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Rupert District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 13 Tube 1941.


The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 124
hectares.


Columbia Wetlands Wildlife Management Area


All those parcels or tracts of Crown land within the 200 year flood
level of the Columbia River, together with all that foreshore or land
covered by water, situated in Kootenay District and contained within the
described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan deposited in the
Crown Land Registry as Columbia Wetlands Wildlife Management Area (North
Site), Plan 14 Tube 1941; Columbia Wetlands Wildlife Management Area
(Central Site), Plan 4 Tube 1982; and Columbia Wetlands Wildlife
Management Area (South Site), Plan 13 Tube 1982.


The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 16 969
hectares.


Coquitlam River Wildlife Management Area


All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Group 1, New Westminster
District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the
Official Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 15 Tube 1941.


The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 16 hectares.


Cranberry Marsh/Starratt Wildlife Management Area


All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Cariboo District and
outlined in heavy black on the map with the file name
CranberryMarshStarrattwma5m.pdf, on file with GeoBC, Ministry of
Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations.


The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 319
hectares.


Dewdrop-Rosseau Creek Wildlife Management Area


All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Kamloops Division, Yale
District and outlined in heavy black on the map with the file name
dewdrop-rosseau_creek_wma4m.pdf, on file with GeoBC, Ministry of
Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations; except (1) CN Right of
Way Plan 1LOC26 and 5RY218; and (2) a 30 metre right of way centred on
Frederick Road.


The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 5 627
hectares.


East Side Columbia Lake Wildlife Management Area


All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Kootenay District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 2 Tube 1942.


The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 7 158
hectares.


Green Mountain Wildlife Management Area


All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Dunsmuir District and
outlined in heavy black on the map with the file name
green_mtn_wma3m.pdf, on file with GeoBC, Ministry of Forests, Lands and
Natural Resource Operations.


The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 342
hectares.


Hamling Lakes Wildlife Management Area


All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Kootenay District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 3 Tube 2007.


The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 30 749
hectares.


Lazo Marsh-North East Comox Wildlife Management Area


All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Comox District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 5 Tube 1942.


The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 131
hectares.


Lhá:lt / Harrison-Chehalis Wildlife Management Area


All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in New Westminster District
and outlined in heavy black on the map with the file name
harrison_chehalis_wma2m.pdf, on file with GeoBC, Ministry of Forests,
Lands and Natural Resource Operations.


The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 1 033
hectares.


McTaggart-Cowan/nsÒk'ɬniw't Wildlife Management Area


All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Similkameen Division,
Yale District and outlined in heavy black on the map with the file name
mctaggart_cowan_wma6m.pdf, on file with GeoBC, Ministry of Forests,
Lands and Natural Resource Operations.


The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 6 491
hectares.


Midge Creek Wildlife Management Area


All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Kootenay District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 7 Tube 1942.


The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 14 818
hectares.


Parksville-Qualicum Beach Wildlife Management Area


All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water situated in Nanaimo, Nanoose and
Newcastle Districts and outlined in heavy black on the map with the file
name APPROVED_parksville_qualicum_beach_wma3m.pdf, on file with GeoBC,
Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations.


The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 1 245
hectares.


Pemberton Wetlands Wildlife Management Area


All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Lillooet District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 4 Tube 2011; except (1)
Airport Road, a 20 metre wide Gazetted road; (2) a 30 metre right of way
centred on the Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource
Operations FSR 7979-01-0; (3) a 30 metre right of way centred on the
Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations road R09288.


The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 765
hectares.


Pitt-Addington Marsh Wildlife Management Area


All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in New Westminster District
and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official
Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 9 Tube 1942.


The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 2 815
hectares.


Quatse Estuary Wildlife Management Area


All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Rupert District and
outlined in heavy black on the map with the file name
quatse_estuary_wma5m.pdf, on file with GeoBC, Ministry of Forests, Lands
and Natural Resource Operations.


The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 157
hectares.


Roberts Bank Wildlife Management Area


All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in New Westminster District
and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official
Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 12 Tube 1993.


The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 8 770
hectares.


S'amunu Wildlife Management Area


All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in the Somenos and
Quamichan Land Districts and outlined in heavy black on the map with the
file name S_amunu_wma5.pdf, on file with GeoBC, Ministry of Forests,
Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development.


The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 155
hectares.


Serpentine Wildlife Management Area


All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in New Westminster District
and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official
Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 2 Tube 1994.


The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 71 hectares.


Skwelwil'em Squamish Estuary Wildlife Management Area


All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in New Westminster District
and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official
Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 6 Tube 1977.


The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 5 152
hectares.


South Arm Marshes Wildlife Management Area


All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, in the South Arm of the Fraser River
situated in Groups 1 and 2, New Westminster District and contained
within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan deposited
in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 12 Tube 1942.


The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 830
hectares.


South Okanagan Wildlife Management Area


All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Similkameen Division,
Yale District and outlined in heavy black on the map with the file name
south_okanagan_wma5m.pdf, on file with GeoBC, Ministry of Forests, Lands
and Natural Resource Operations; except the road survey as shown on
Highways District Plan RS67722.


The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 903
hectares.


Stellako River Wildlife Management Area


All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Range 5, Coast District
and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official
Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 3 Tube 2004; except
(1) DL 6854; and (2) Francois Lake Road as shown on Plan 5 Tube 1435 and
Plan 14 Tube 1633.


The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 503
hectares.


Sturgeon Bank Wildlife Management Area


All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in New Westminster District
and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official
Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 14 Tube 1942.


The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 7 788
hectares.


Swan Lake Wildlife Management Area


All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Okanagan Shuswap
District and outlined in heavy black on the map with the file name
swan_lake_wma5.pdf, on file with GeoBC, Ministry of Forests, Lands,
Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development.


The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 471.5
hectares.


Todagin Wildlife Management Area


All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Cassiar District and
outlined in heavy black on the map with the file name
todagin_wma26m.pdf, on file with GeoBC, Ministry of Forests, Lands and
Natural Resource Operations.


The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 122 594
hectares.


Tofino Mudflats Wildlife Management Area


All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Clayoquot District and
contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official Plan
deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 1 Tube 1943.


The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 1 583
hectares.


Tranquille Wildlife Management Area


All those parcels or tracts of Crown land, together with all that
foreshore or land covered by water, situated in Kamloops Division, Yale
District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the
Official Plan deposited in the Crown Land Registry as Plan 2 Tube 1943.


The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 278
hectares.


[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Wildlife Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 488, ss. 4 (2) and 5 (1)]



