







B.C. Reg. 68/2006

O.C. 216/2006


Deposited March 31, 2006






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Forest Act


Woodlot Licence Regulation

[Last amended March 30, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 76/2022]





Definition




1


In this regulation,
"Act"
means the

Forest Act

.




Part 1 — Applications for Woodlot Licences and Evaluation





Applications for woodlot licences




2

(1)


The prescribed requirements referred to in section 44 (3) (b) of the
Act for a woodlot licence application made in response to an
invitation under section 44 (2) of the Act are that the application
must




(a)

be in the form specified by the minister that the minister considers
appropriate for the invitation,




(b)

contain or be accompanied by a written tender, in a sealed container,
of a bonus in a specified dollar amount payable to the government in
addition to other amounts payable to the government under the Act and
the regulations, and




(c)

contain or be accompanied by information specified by the minister
that the minister considers necessary for




(i)

ascertaining the applicant's eligibility by reference to section 44
(2) of the Act, and




(ii)

evaluating the application, in comparison to the other competing
applications, by reference to sections 3 to 5 of this regulation.




(2)

If stipulated in an invitation under section 44 (2) of the Act for
woodlot licence applications, an application in response to that
invitation must contain or be accompanied by a certificate of an
individual with professional qualifications specified in the
advertisement which certificate provides written assurance, based on




(a)

the personal knowledge of the certifying individual, and




(b)

information from credible sources,


that confirms the validity and accuracy of information provided by the
applicant about matters relevant to the application that are within
the competence of the certifying individual.

[am. B.C. Reg. 133/2011, Sch. s. 32.]





Definitions for section 4




3

(1)


In section 4:



"closing date"

means the closing date stipulated in an invitation under section 44
(2) of the Act for woodlot licence applications;



"proposed private land of the applicant"

means




(a)

private land, or




(b)

all or part of a reserve as defined in the
Indian Act
(Canada),

in British Columbia that



(c)

is proposed for inclusion in a woodlot licence by a woodlot licence
applicant under an application made in response to an invitation under
section 44 (2) of the Act, and




(d)

conforms to the requirements of the invitation;



"principal residence"

, in relation to a woodlot licence application made in response to an
invitation under section 44 (2) of the Act, means




(a)

if the applicant is an individual, the usual place in which the
individual resides, having done so for at least 6 months immediately
preceding the closing date,




(b)

if the applicant is a corporation, the usual place in which an
individual, if any, with voting shares in the corporation resides,
having done so for at least 6 months immediately preceding the closing
date,




(c)

if the applicant is a partnership, the usual place in which an
individual partner, if any, resides, having done so for at least 6
months immediately preceding the closing date, or




(d)

if the applicant is a first nation, the principal office of the first
nation.




(2)

For the purpose of a woodlot licence application referred to in
section 4 (4), the distance factor for each area included in the
proposed private land of the applicant is




(a)

1.0 if the shortest distance between the area and the Crown land to be
described in the woodlot licence applied for is 50 km or less,




(b)

0.9 if the shortest distance between the area and the Crown land to be
described in the woodlot licence applied for is more than 50 km but no
more than 60 km,




(c)

0.8 if the shortest distance between the area and the Crown land to be
described in the woodlot licence applied for is more than 60 km but no
more than 70 km,




(d)

0.7 if the shortest distance between the area and the Crown land to be
described in the woodlot licence applied for is more than 70 km but no
more than 80 km,




(e)

0.6 if the shortest distance between the area and the Crown land to be
described in the woodlot licence applied for is more than 80 km but no
more than 90 km,




(f)

0.5 if the shortest distance between the area and the Crown land to be
described in the woodlot licence applied for is more than 90 km but no
more than 100 km,




(g)

0.4 if the shortest distance between the area and the Crown land to be
described in the woodlot licence applied for is more than 100 km but
no more than 110 km,




(h)

0.3 if the shortest distance between the area and the Crown land to be
described in the woodlot licence applied for is more than 110 km but
no more than 120 km,




(i)

0.2 if the shortest distance between the area and the Crown land to be
described in the woodlot licence applied for is more than 120 km but
no more than 130 km, or




(j)

0.1 if the shortest distance between the area and the Crown land to be
described in the woodlot licence applied for is more than 130 km,

measured horizontally in a straight line.
[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 11.]





Evaluation of competing woodlot licence applications




4

(1)


Competing woodlot licence applications made in response to an
invitation under section 44 (2) of the Act are to be evaluated under a
point system in accordance with this section.




(2)

Subject to section 5, the woodlot licence application assigned the
most points under this section is, for the purposes of section 44 of
the Act, the best of those competing woodlot applications.




(3)

In evaluating each of the competing woodlot licence applications, the
minister must assign to the application




(a)

either




(i)

50 points if the bonus tendered under the application is the highest
of the bonuses tendered under all of the competing applications, or




(ii)

a lower number of points if the bonus tendered under the application
was lower than the highest bonus, determined by




(A)

dividing the amount of that lower bonus for the application by the
amount of the highest bonus, and




(B)

multiplying the result by 50,




(b)

for the proximity of the applicant's principal residence to the Crown
land to be described in the woodlot licence applied for,




(i)

25 points if that principal residence is 50 km or less from the Crown
land,




(ii)

20 points if that principal residence is more than 50 km but no more
than 100 km from the Crown land,




(iii)

15 points if that principal residence is more than 100 km but no more
than 150 km from the Crown land,




(iv)

10 points if that principal residence is more than 150 km but no more
than 200 km from the Crown land, or




(v)

5 points if that principal residence is more than 200 km from the
Crown land, and


measured by the means stipulated in the invitation for the woodlot
licence under section 44 (2) of the Act, and




(c)

for each area included in the proposed private land of the applicant,
the number of points calculated under subsection (4).




(4)

The number of points referred to in subsection (3) (c) that are to be
assigned to a woodlot licence application is to be calculated as
follows:




(a)

first, for each of the competing applications, ascertain, for each
area included in the proposed private land of the applicant, the
product of




(i)

the distance factor for that area, and




(ii)

the number of hectares contained in it;




(b)

second, for each of the competing applications,




(i)

if there is only one area included in the proposed private land of the
applicant, note the amount of the product obtained under paragraph (a)
for that area, and




(ii)

if there are 2 or more areas included in the proposed private land of
the applicant, note the amount of the sum of the products obtained
under paragraph (a) for those areas;




(c)

third, ascertain which of all of the amounts noted under paragraph (b)
is the highest amount and assign




(i)

25 points to the competing woodlot licence application to which that
highest amount is applicable, and




(ii)

a lower number of points to each of the other competing woodlot
licence applications to which an amount lower than that highest amount
is applicable, determined by




(A)

dividing the lower amount noted under paragraph (b) for that woodlot
licence application by that highest amount, and




(B)

multiplying the result by 25.

[am. B.C. Reg. 133/2011, Sch. s. 33.]





Tie-breaker




5

(1)


If the points assigned to each of 2 or more of the competing
applicants under section 4 are the same and the competing applicants
are tied for the highest number of points,




(a)

the minister, by notice in writing, must notify each of those
competing applicants, inviting the applicant to submit a written
tender, in a sealed container, of a further bonus in a specified
dollar amount payable to the government in addition to other amounts
payable to the government under the Act and the regulations, and




(b)

the application of the applicant submitting the highest bonus is the
best, for the purposes of section 44 of the Act, among the competing
applicants.




(2)

If 2 or more of the written tenders of a further bonus referred to in
subsection (1) (a) contain the same bonus and are tied for the highest
bonus among all of the competing applicants, the minister must carry
out the procedure under subsection (1) until one of the applicants
submits the highest bonus.




Part 2 — Change in Boundary or Area





Minor change of boundary or area




6

(1)


Under section 47.1 of the Act, the minister may change the boundary or
the area of the Crown land portion of a woodlot licence area, if the
change does not increase the area of that Crown land portion by more
than 10% and the minister is satisfied that




(a)

any area to be added is close to the woodlot licence area,




(b)

the woodlot licence holder's financial accounts with the government
are up to date at the time of the change or arrangements satisfactory
to the minister responsible for Provincial revenue have been made to
bring those financial accounts up to date, and




(c)

the change is appropriate, given the circumstances or conditions
applicable to the Crown land.




(2)

One or more changes under subsection (1), whenever proposed, must not
cause the original area of the woodlot licence to increase by more
than 10%.

[am. B.C. Reg. 133/2011, Sch. s. 34.]





Repealed




7


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 68/2006, s. 7 (3).]






Increase in competitively awarded woodlot licence area for first
nation




7.1


Under section 47.1 of the Act, the minister may change the boundary or
the area of the Crown land portion of a woodlot licence area, other
than the boundary or area of a woodlot licence issued under section
47.3 (1) of the Act, if the minister is satisfied that




(a)

the increase is to implement or further an agreement between a first
nation and the government respecting treaty-related measures, interim
measures or economic measures,




(b)

the woodlot licence is held by




(i)

a first nation, or




(ii)

subject to section 47.3 of the Act, a representative of a first
nation, and




(c)

after the increase the Crown land portion of the woodlot licence area
will not exceed the area specified in section 45 (1) (b) (ii) of the
Act.


[en. B.C. Reg. 338/2007; am. B.C. Reg. 133/2011, Sch. s. 35.]




Part 3





Repealed




8-9


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 255/2007, s. (d).]




Part 4





Repealed




10-13


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 181/2016, s. (c).]



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Forest Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 157, ss. 44, 47.1 and 151.]



