
Land Transfer Form Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 252




Column 1


Column 2



1

[Covenantor]
covenants with
[covenantee],

1

And the said covenantor doth hereby, for himself, his heirs,
executors, and administrators, covenant, promise, and agree with
and to the said covenantee, his heirs, executors, administrators,
and assigns, in manner following, that is to say:



2

that he has the right to convey the land to
[covenantee]
not-withstanding any act of
[covenantor];

2

That, for, and notwithstanding any act, deed, matter, or thing by
the said covenantor done, executed, committed, or knowingly or
wilfully permitted or suffered to the contrary, he the said
covenantor now hath in himself good right, full power, and
absolute authority to convey the said land and other the premises
hereby conveyed, or intended so to be, with their and every of
their appurtenances, unto the said covenantee, in manner
aforesaid, and according to the true intent of these presents;



3

and that
[covenantee]
shall have quiet possession of the land

3

and that it shall be lawful for the said covenantee, his heirs,
executors, administrators, and assigns, from time to time, and at
all times hereafter, peaceably and quietly to enter upon, have,
hold, occupy, possess, and enjoy the said land and premises hereby
conveyed, or intended so to be, with their and every of their
appurtenances, and to have, receive, and take the rents, issues,
and profits thereof, and of every part thereof, to and for his and
their use and benefit, without any let, suit, trouble, denial,
eviction, interruption, claim, or demand whatsoever, of, from, or
by him the said covenantor or his heirs, or any person claiming,
or to claim, by, from, under, or in trust for him, them, or any of
them;



4
free from all encumbrances.
4

and that free and clear, and freely and absolutely acquitted,
exonerated, and for ever discharged, or otherwise by the said
covenantor or his heirs well and sufficiently saved, kept
harmless, and indemnified, of, from, and against any and every
former and other gift, grant, bargain, sale, jointure, dower, use,
trust, entail, will, statute, recognizance, judgment, execution,
extent, rent, annuity, forfeiture, re-entry, and any and every
other estate, title, charge, trouble and encumbrance whatsoever,
made, executed, occasioned, or suffered by the said covenantor or
his heirs, or by any person claiming or to claim by, from, under,
or in trust for him, them, or any of them.



5

And
[covenantor]
covenants with
[covenantee]
, that he will execute further assurances of land as may be
requisite.

5

And the said covenantor doth hereby, for himself, his heirs,
executors, and administrators, covenant, promise, and agree with
and to the said covenantee, his heirs, executors, administrators,
and assigns, that he the said covenantor, his heirs, executors, or
administrators, and all and every other person the whatsoever
having or claiming, or who shall or may hereafter have or claim,
any estate, right, title, or interest whatsoever, either at law or
in equity, in, to, or out of the said land and premises hereby
conveyed or intended so to be, or any of them, or any part
thereof, by, from, under, or in trust for him, them, or any of
them, shall and will from time to time, and at all times
hereafter, upon every reasonable request, and at the costs and
charges of the said covenantee, his heirs, executors,
administrators, or assigns, make, do, execute, or cause to be
made, done, or executed, all such further and other lawful acts,
deeds, things, devices, conveyances, and assurances in the law
whatsoever, for the better, more perfectly, and absolutely
conveying and assuring the said land and premises hereby conveyed,
or intended so to be, and every part thereof, with their
appurtenances, unto the said covenantee, his heirs and assigns, in
manner aforesaid, as by the said covenantee, his heirs and
assigns, his or their counsel in the law, shall be reasonably
devised, advised, or required, so as no such further assurances
contain or imply any further or other covenant or warranty than
against the acts and deeds of the person who shall be required to
make or execute the same, and his heirs, executors, or
administrators only, and so as no person who shall be required to
make or execute such assurances shall be compellable for the
making or executing thereof to go or travel from his usual place
of abode.



6

And
[covenantor]
covenants with
[covenantee]
, that he will produce the title deeds enumerated hereunder, and
allow copies to be made of them at the expense of
[covenantee]
.

6

And the said covenantor doth hereby, for himself his heirs,
executors, and administrators, covenant, promise, and agree with
and to the said covenantee, his heirs, executors, administrators,
and assigns, that the said covenantor and his heirs shall and
will, unless prevented by fire or other inevitable accident, from
time to time, and at all times hereafter, at the request, costs,
and charges of the said covenantee, his heirs or assigns, or his
or their attorney, solicitor, agent, or counsel, at any trial or
hearing in any action, or suit at law or in equity, or other
judicature, or otherwise, as occasion shall require, produce all
and every or any deed, instrument, or writing hereunder written,
for the manifestation, defence, and support of the estate, title,
and possession of the said covenantee, his heirs or assigns, in or
to the said land and premises hereby conveyed, or intended so to
be, and, at the like request, costs, and charges, shall and will
make and deliver, or cause to be made and delivered, true and
attested or other copies or abstracts of the same deeds,
instruments, and writings respectively, or any of them, and shall
and will permit and suffer such copies and abstracts to be
examined and compared with the said original deeds by the said
covenantee, his heirs and assigns, or such person as he or they
shall for that purpose direct and appoint.



7

And
[covenantor]
covenants with
[covenantee]
, that he has done nothing to encumber the land.

7

And the said covenantor, for himself, his heirs, executors, and
administrators, doth hereby covenant, promise, and agree with and
to the said covenantee, his heirs, executors, administrators, and
assigns, that he hath not at any time heretofore made, done,
committed, executed, or wilfully or knowingly suffered any act,
deed, matter, or thing whatsoever, whereby, or by means whereof,
the said land and premises hereby conveyed, or intended so to be,
or any part or parcel thereof, are, is, or shall or may be in
anywise impeached, charged, affected, or encumbered in title,
estate, or otherwise, howsoever; provided that where works of
local improvement benefiting the said land and premises have
heretofore, or shall hereafter, or are in process of being made,
under the provisions of any Act or Acts for the time being in
force, the cost whereof, in whole or in part, have been charged
upon or against the said land and premises, or any part thereof,
the petitioning for or procuring to be made, or the making-up of
any such works, or the charging the costs thereof upon or against
the said land and premises or any part thereof, or the fact that
they are a charge upon or against such land and premises, or any
part thereof, shall not be deemed or taken to be a breach of this
covenant, except to the extent that the annual or other payments
in respect of such works are in arrear and unpaid at the time of
the execution of these presents.



8

And
[releasor]
releases to
[releasee]
all his claims on the land.

8

And the said releasor hath remised, released, and for ever quitted
claim, and by these presents doth remise, release, and for ever
quit claim, unto the said releasee, his heirs, executors,
administrators, and assigns, all and all manner of right, title,
interest, claim, and demand whatsoever, both at law or in equity,
in, to, and out of the said land and premises hereby granted, or
intended so to be, and every part and parcel thereof, so as that
neither he, nor his heirs, executors, administrators, or assigns,
shall, nor may at any time hereafter, have, claim, pretend to
challenge, or demand the said land and premises, or any part
thereof, in any manner howsoever; but the said releasee, his
heirs, executors, administrators, and assigns, and the same land
and premises shall from henceforth for ever hereafter be
exonerated and discharged of and from all claims and demand
whatsoever which the said releasor might or could have upon him in
respect of the said land and premises, or upon the said land and
premises.


