
Tsawwassen First Nation Final Agreement Act
[SBC 2007] CHAPTER 39




Lease No.


Parcel Description (Lease)


Expiration Date



1018

That portion of the SW 1/4 of Sec 22 TWP 5 having frontage of 40
chains on the North Boundary and 28.5 chains on the East Boundary
of the said Quarter NWD


August 31, 2007



1019

Part of the SW 3 of Section 22 Township 5


August 31, 2007



1020

Lot D SW 3 Section 22 Township 5 NWD Plan 23543


August 31, 2007



1030

Parcel C (Ref Plan 6995) Except Firstly: Parcel 2 (Ref Plan 7634)
and Secondly: Parcel 3 (Ref Plan 9694) District Lot 183, Group 2,
NWD


August 31, 2007



1031

Parcel One (Ref Plan 6994) Parcel A, District Lot 183, Group 2,
Except Firstly: Part subdivided by PL 28898, Secondly: Parcel C
(Ref Plan 30741), Thirdly: Parcels A and B (PL 38001), Fourthly:
Parcel D (PL 42153), Fifthly: PL 49448 NWD


August 31, 2007



1037

Lot 3, Except Part dedicated road on Plan LMP 40488, District Lot
108, Group 2, NWD, Plan 20071


March 31, 2007



1058

That portion of the SW 1/4 Section 15, Township 5 Lying North of
Highway Plan 22977 NWD


March 31, 2007



1059

The NW 1/4 of Section 15 Township 5, NWD (save and except a
portion of about 200'x250')


January 31, 2007



1060

(40 chains x 28.55 chains) of SW 1/4 Section 22 Twp 5 S&E
Firstly: portion of NE corner 900'x270', Secondly: strip N-S
100'x1800' and a shed and cabin at 4820-28th Ave adjacent and East
of aforementioned strip as shown in sketch B


March 31, 2008



1061

The North Half of Parcel B (Ref. Plan 4554) of the Southwest
quarter, Section 22, Township 5, NWD, being all that portion lying
north of a straight line bisecting the east and west boundaries
thereof, except part subdivided by Plan 23543.


March 31, 2008



1062

The southerly half of Parcel B (Ref. Plan 4554) of the SW 1/4 of
section 22, Township 5, NWD and being all that portion lying south
of a straight line bisecting the east and west boundaries


January 31, 2008



1066

Parcel C, District Lot 107, Group 2, Plan 52551F, Except a 3 acre
portion with buildings situated thereon, having a civic address of
4440-28 Ave


March 31, 2009



1067

Parcel A (Ref Plan 4632) of Lot 107, Group 2 NWD., Except: Part
subdivided by PL 40534 also Save and Except portion of the NE
corner of the premises have a frontage of 372' on 27B Ave. and
being approximately 315' deep, occupied by Wideski, 4790 – 27B St.


March 31, 2007



1068

Lot B (Expl PL 5633) District Lot 107 Group 2 NWD and Lot 6
District Lot 183, NWD PL 42391


March 31, 2007



1069

Parcel A (Ref Plan 7741) of Lot 10 of District Lot 108 and 109
Group 2, Plan 3033, NWD (Except: the southerly 15 ft shown on Plan
with bylaw filed 40665)


March 31, 2007



1071

R66 – Lot B of Lot 185, Group 2, Plan 17089, NWD;

R54 – Parcel 1 (Ref Plan 6994 of Parcel A of Lot 183, Group 2,
except: Firstly: part subdivided by Plan 28898 and Secondly:
Parcel C (Ref Plan 30741) NWD, also S&E those portions now
occupied by railways, public roads, private access roads, the
fenced site of BC Hydro's Terminal Station and the land between
the Railway and 28th Ave but the vegetable storage building and
access to it are not excluded from the agreement. The private
access road to the residence and its site known as Deltaport Way
and its occupants are excluded;

R51 – Parcel 3 (Ref Plan 9694) of Lot 183, Group 2 NWD Except:
part subdivided by Plan 19032 of Parcel 2, Ref Plan 7637;

R52 – Parcel C (Ref Plan 6995) of Lot 183, Group 2, Except:
Firstly: Parcel 2, (Ref Plan 7637) thereof and Secondly: Parcel 3
(Ref Plan 9694) thereof, NWD Save and Except: the dwelling with a
civic address of 2625-41B Street and its site of approx 120'x100';

R56 – Parcel 2 (Ref Plan 7637) of DL 183, Group 2, Except: part
subdivided by Plan 19032 NWD, Save and Except: the site with a
civic address of 2825-41B Street of approximately 50'x150'
(building demolished); and

R057-58 – Lots 1 and 2 of Lot 183, Group 2, Plan 19032, NWD


March 31, 2007



1073

Lot 3 of District Lot 184 Group 2 Plan 839, NWD Except: Firstly:
Parcel D (Plan 38001) and Secondly: dwelling and its site of 150'
x 225' and access thereto, with the dwelling having a civic
address of 2981-41B St. Delta


March 31, 2007



1087

A portion of the SW 1/4 of Section 22, Township 5, NWD


August 31, 2007



1089

Part of Parcel C (Plan with fee deposited 52551F) District Lot
107, Group 2, NWD


August 31, 2006



1090

Lot 1 District Lot 108 Group 2 Plan 20071, NWD


August 31, 2007



1091

Lot 2 District Lot 108, Group 2 Plan 20071 NWD


August 31, 2007



1095

A strip running in a North-South direction being about 100' wide
with a depth of about 1600' with the 100' frontage on 28th Ave.,
and a shed adjacent to the said strip; the strip and shed are
located on the SW 1/4 of Section 22


March 31, 2007



1099

A portion of Parcel A (Ref Plan 4632) District Lot 107 Group 2 NWD
Except Plan 40534


May 31, 2007



1103

Lot 3 Parcel 2 District Lot 183 Group 2, Plan 19032 NWD


August 31, 2007


