







B.C. Reg. 12/2004

O.C. 16/2004


Deposited January 23, 2004

effective January 31, 2004





This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to Point in Time




Forest and Range Practices Act



Administrative Review and

Appeal Procedure Regulation



[includes amendments up to B.C. Reg. 240/2015, December 18, 2015]




Part 1 — Definitions





Definitions




1


In this regulation:



"requesting person"

means a person that requests a review of




(a)

a determination, order or decision referred to in section 143 (1) of
the

Forest Act

,




(b)

an order, decision or amendment referred to in section 69 (1) of the

Range Act

,




(c)

a determination referred to in section 80 (1) of the

Forest and Range Practices Act

, or




(d)

an order referred to in section 37 (1) of the

Wildfire Act

;


"reviewer"
means




(a)

for a review under the

Forest Act

,




(i)

the regional manager if the review concerns a determination, order or
decision referred to in section 143 (1) (a) of the

Forest Act

,




(ii)

the person authorized by the minister, if the review concerns a
determination, order or decision referred to in section 143 (1) (b) of
the

Forest Act

,




(iii)

the chief forester if the review concerns a determination, order or
decision referred to in section 143 (1) (c) of the

Forest Act

, or




(iv)

the person to whom, under section 143 (3) of the

Forest Act

, the regional manager or chief forester delegates the power to decide
the review,




(b)

for a review under the

Range Act

,




(i)

the person who made the original order or decision or prepared the
amendment, or




(ii)

another person who under section 69 (1) of the

Range Act

is designated by the minister to decide the review,




(c)

for a review under the

Forest and Range Practices Act

,




(i)

the person who made the original determination, or




(ii)

another person who, under this regulation or section 80 (1) of the

Forest and Range Practices Act

, is designated by the minister to decide the review, or




(d)

for a review under the

Wildfire Act

,




(i)

the person who made the original order, or




(ii)

another person who under section 37 (1) of the

Wildfire Act

is designated by the minister to decide the review.


[am. B.C. Regs. 353/2004, s. 1; 83/2006, s. 1; 240/2015, App. 2, s.
1.]




Part 2 — Administrative Review Procedure



Division 1 — Requesting a Review





Request for review: content requirements




2

(1)


For




(a)

a review of a determination, order or decision referred to in section
143 (1) of the

Forest Act

,




(b)

a review of an order, decision or amendment referred to in section 69
(1) of the

Range Act

,




(c)

a review of a determination referred to in section 80 (1) of the

Forest and Range Practices Act

, or




(d)

a review of an order referred to in section 37 (1) of the

Wildfire Act

,


the request for review must be signed by, or on behalf of, the person
who is the subject of the determination, order, decision or amendment
under review, and must contain all of the following information:




(e)

the name and address of the requesting person;




(f)

the address for service of the requesting person;




(g)

except in the case of a review under the

Forest Act

, the new evidence that was not available at the time the
determination, order, decision or amendment under review was made;




(h)

a statement of the relief requested.




(2)

For




(a)

a review of a determination referred to in section 81 (1) of the

Forest and Range Practices Act

,




(b)

a review, under section 214 (3) of the

Forest and Range Practices Act

, of the approval of, or the giving effect to, a forest development
plan or range use plan or an amendment to either, or




(c)

a review of an order referred to in section 38 (1) of the

Wildfire Act

,


the requirement for review or request for review must be signed by or
on behalf of the chair of the board, and must contain all of the
following information:




(d)

in the case of a review referred to in paragraph (a) or (c), written
consent of the person who is the subject of the determination or
order;




(e)

the name of the person who made the determination or order, or who
approved or gave effect to the plan or amendment;




(f)

the address for service of the board;




(g)

the grounds for review;




(h)

a statement of the relief requested.

[en. B.C. Reg. 83/2006, s. 2.]



Division 2 — Procedures after Receipt of Request for Review under the
Forest Act





Reviews conducted under the
Forest Act




3


Sections 4 to 7 apply to reviews under the

Forest Act

.

[en. B.C. Reg. 83/2006, s. 3.]





Notification of parties following receipt of request for review




4


The reviewer must acknowledge in writing any request for review.

[en. B.C. Reg. 83/2006, s. 3.]





Deficient request for review




5

(1)


If a request for review does not comply with section 2 (1), the
reviewer may serve a written notice of deficiencies to the requesting
person, inviting the requesting person, within a period specified in
the notice, to submit further material remedying the deficiencies.




(2)

If the reviewer serves a notice of deficiencies under subsection (1),
the requested review may proceed only after the submission to the
reviewer of further material remedying the deficiencies.




(3)

The reviewer must serve a copy of the request and any notice of
deficiency to the person who made the determination, order or decision
that is the subject of the request.

[en. B.C. Reg. 83/2006, s. 3.]





Notice of review




6


The reviewer must serve a notice of review to the person who requested
the review, and to the person referred to in section 5 (3), setting
out,




(a)

in accordance with section 145 (1) of the

Forest Act

, the basis on which the review is to be conducted, and




(b)

if there is to be an oral hearing, the date, time and location of the
oral hearing.






Prescribed period for review decision




7


The prescribed period for the purposes of section 145 (3) (a) of the

Forest Act

is 60 days.




Division 2.1 — Procedures after Receipt of Request for Review under the
Range Act





Reviews conducted under the
Range Act




7.1


Sections 7.1 to 7.6 apply to reviews under the

Range Act

.

[en. B.C. Reg. 83/2006, s. 4.]





Notification of parties following receipt of a request for review




7.2

(1)


The minister must acknowledge in writing any request for review.




(2)

The minister must give a copy of the request to the person who made
the order or decision or who prepared the amendment, which order,
decision or amendment is the subject of the request.

[en. B.C. Reg. 83/2006, s. 4.]





Deficient request for review




7.3

(1)


If a request for review does not comply with section 2 (1), the
minister may give a written notice of deficiencies to the requesting
person, inviting the requesting person, within a period specified in
the notice, to submit further material remedying the deficiencies.




(2)

If the minister gives a notice of deficiencies under subsection (1),
the review may proceed only after the submission to the minister of
further material remedying the deficiencies.

[en. B.C. Reg. 83/2006, s. 4.]





Designation of reviewer




7.4


On receipt of a request for review, the minister must forward the
request to




(a)

the person who made the order or decision or who prepared the
amendment, which order, decision or amendment is the subject of the
request, or




(b)

another person whom the minister, under section 69 (1) of the

Range Act

, designates to review the order.

[en. B.C. Reg. 83/2006, s. 4.]





Notice of review




7.5

(1)


The reviewer must give a notice of review to




(a)

the person who requested the review, and




(b)

the persons referred to in section 7.4.




(2)

If the review is to involve an oral hearing, the notice of review must
specify the date, time and location of the hearing.

[en. B.C. Reg. 83/2006, s. 4.]





Review decision




7.6


The reviewer must give a written decision to the person who is the
subject of the order, decision or amendment.

[en. B.C. Reg. 83/2006, s. 4.]



Division 3 — Procedures after Receipt of Request for Review under the
Forest and Range Practices Act





Reviews conducted under the
Forest and Range Practices Act




8


Sections 9 to 15 apply to reviews under the

Forest and Range Practices Act

.

[am. B.C. Reg. 353/2004, s. 3.]





Notification of parties following receipt of a request for review




9

(1)


The minister must acknowledge in writing any request for review or
requirement for review.




(2)

If a request for review is made under section 80 (1) of the

Forest and Range Practices Act

, the minister must give a copy of the request to the person who made
the determination that is the subject of the request.




(3)

If the board requires a review under section 81 (1) of the

Forest and Range Practices Act

, the minister must give a copy of the requirement for review to the
following:




(a)

for a review of a determination made under section 82 or 95 (2) of the

Forest Practices Code of British Columbia Act

or under section 71 or 74 of the

Forest and Range Practices Act

,




(i)

the person who made the determination that is the subject of the
requirement, and




(ii)

the person who is the subject of the determination;




(b)

for a review of a determination with respect to the approval of a plan
under sections 16 or 37 of the

Forest and Range Practices Act

, or the approval of an amendment to the plan,




(i)

the holder of the plan or amendment, and




(ii)

the person who made the determination.




(4)

If the board requests a review, under section 214 (3) of the

Forest and Range Practices Act

, of the approval of, or giving effect to, a forest development plan
or range use plan or an amendment to either, the minister must give a
copy of the request for review to




(a)

the holder of the plan or amendment, and




(b)

the person who made the determination.

[am. B.C. Reg. 353/2004, s. 4.]





Deficient request for review




10

(1)


If a request for review does not comply with section 2 (1), the
minister may give a written notice of deficiencies to the requesting
person, inviting the requesting person, within a period specified in
the notice, to submit further material remedying the deficiencies.




(2)

If the minister gives a notice of deficiencies under subsection (1),
the review may proceed only after the submission to the minister of
further material remedying the deficiencies.

[am. B.C. Reg. 83/2006, s. 5.]





Board's deficient requirement for review




11

(1)


If the board's requirement for review or request for review does not
comply with section 2 (2) (e) to (h), the minister may give a written
notice of deficiencies to the board, inviting the board, within a
period specified in the notice, to submit further material remedying
the deficiencies.




(2)

A review may not proceed if the board's requirement for review does
not comply with section 2 (2) (d).




(3)

If the minister gives a notice of deficiencies under subsection (1),
the review may proceed only after the submission to the minister of
further material remedying the deficiencies.

[am. B.C. Regs. 353/2004, s. 5; 83/2006, s. 6.]





Agreement holder party to review




12


If the board




(a)

requires a review of a determination with respect to the approval of a
plan under section 16 or 37 of the

Forest and Range Practices Act

, or




(b)

requests a review, under section 214 (3) of the

Forest and Range Practices Act

, of the approval of, or the giving effect to, a forest development
plan or range use plan or an amendment to either,


the agreement holder to which the plan or amendment relates is a party
to the review.

[en. B.C. Reg. 353/2004, s. 6.]





Designation of reviewer




13

(1)


On receipt of a request or requirement for review, the minister must
forward the request or requirement to




(a)

the person who made the determination that is the subject of the
request, or




(b)

another person whom the minister, under subsection (2) of this
section, or section 80 (1) of the

Forest and Range Practices Act

, designates to review the determination.




(2)

For a request for review under section 214 (3) of the

Forest and Range Practices Act

, the minister may designate a person employed in the ministry to
review the determination that is the subject of the request.


[en. B.C. Reg. 353/2004, s. 7; am. B.C. Reg. 83/2006, s. 7.]






Notice of review




14

(1)


The reviewer must give a notice of review to




(a)

the person who requested the review, or to the board if the board
required or requested the review, and




(b)

the persons referred to in section 9 (2) or (3).




(2)

If the review is to involve an oral hearing, the notice of review must
specify the date, time and location of the hearing.

[am. B.C. Reg. 353/2004, s. 8.]





Review decision




15


The reviewer must give a written decision to




(a)

the person who is the subject of the determination, and




(b)

the board.




Division 4 — Procedures after Receipt of Request for Review under the
Wildfire Act





Reviews conducted under the
Wildfire Act




15.1


Sections 15.2 to 15.7 apply to reviews under the

Wildfire Act

.

[en. B.C. Reg. 83/2006, s. 8.]





Notification of parties following receipt of a request for review




15.2

(1)


The minister must acknowledge in writing any request for review or
requirement for review.




(2)

If a request for review is made under section 37 (1) of the

Wildfire Act

, the minister must give a copy of the request to the person who made
the order that is the subject of the request.




(3)

If the board requires a review under section 38 (1) of the

Wildfire Act

, the minister must give a copy of the requirement for review to the
following:




(a)

the person who made the order that is the subject of the requirement;




(b)

the person who is the subject of the order.

[en. B.C. Reg. 83/2006, s. 8.]





Deficient request for review




15.3

(1)


If a request for review does not comply with section 2 (1), the
minister may give a written notice of deficiencies to the requesting
person, inviting the requesting person, within a period specified in
the notice, to submit further material remedying the deficiencies.




(2)

If the minister gives a notice of deficiencies under subsection (1),
the review may proceed only after the submission to the minister of
further material remedying the deficiencies.

[en. B.C. Reg. 83/2006, s. 8.]





Board's deficient requirement for review




15.4

(1)


If the board's requirement for review does not comply with section 2
(2) (e) to (h), the minister may give a written notice of deficiencies
to the board, inviting the board, within a period specified in the
notice, to submit further material remedying the deficiencies.




(2)

A review may not proceed if the board's requirement for review does
not comply with section 2 (2) (d).




(3)

If the minister gives a notice of deficiencies under subsection (1),
the review may proceed only after the submission to the minister of
further material remedying the deficiencies.

[en. B.C. Reg. 83/2006, s. 8.]





Designation of reviewer




15.5


On receipt of a request or requirement for review, the minister must
forward the request or requirement to




(a)

the person who made the order that is the subject of the request, or




(b)

another person whom the minister, under section 37 (1) of the

Wildfire Act

, designates to review the order.

[en. B.C. Reg. 83/2006, s. 8.]





Notice of review




15.6

(1)


The reviewer must give a notice of review to




(a)

the person who requested the review, or to the board if the board
required the review, and




(b)

the persons referred to in section 15.2 (2) or (3).




(2)

If the review is to involve an oral hearing, the notice of review must
specify the date, time and location of the hearing.

[en. B.C. Reg. 83/2006, s. 8.]





Review decision




15.7


The reviewer must give a written decision to




(a)

the person who is the subject of the order, and




(b)

the board.

[en. B.C. Reg. 83/2006, s. 8.]



Part 3 — Forest Appeals Commission Procedure





Repealed




16


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 240/2015, App. 2, s. 2.]






Prescribed period for board to apply for order




17


The prescribed period for the purpose of section 83 (2) (b) of the

Forest and Range Practices Act

is 6 months.






Repealed




18-20


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 240/2015, App. 2, s. 2.]






Procedure following receipt of notice of appeal




21


Within 30 days after receipt of the notice of appeal, the commission
must




(a)

determine whether the appeal is to be considered by members of the
commission sitting as a commission or by members of the commission
sitting as a panel of the commission,




(b)

designate the panel members if the commission determines that the
appeal is to be considered by a panel, and




(c)

set the date, time and location of the hearing.




(d)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 240/2015, App. 2, s. 3.]


[en. B.C. Reg. 83/2006, s. 13; am. B.C. Reg. 240/2015, App. 2, s. 3.]






Repealed




22


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 240/2015, App. 2, s. 4.]






Notice of additional parties and interveners




23

(1)


If a party is added to an appeal, the commission must promptly give
written notice of the addition to the other parties and any
interveners.




(2)

If an intervener is invited or permitted to take part in the hearing
of an appeal, the commission must promptly give written notice to the
parties and any other interveners




(a)

stating that the intervener has been invited or permitted to take part
in the hearing, and




(b)

specifying the extent to which the intervener will be permitted to
participate.

[en. B.C. Reg. 240/2015, App. 2, s. 5.]





Repealed




24


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 240/2015, App. 2, s. 6.]






Transcripts




25


On application to the commission, a transcript of any proceedings
before the commission or the panel of the commission must be prepared
at the cost of the person requesting it or, if there is more than one
applicant for the transcript, proportionately by all of the
applicants.






When commission must serve a decision in appeal under
Forest Act




26


The commission must serve, on the appellant and the minister, a
decision in an appeal of a determination under section 146 (2) (b) of
the

Forest Act

no later than 42 days after the final day of hearing.

[en. B.C. Reg. 240/2015, App. 2, s. 7.]



Part 4 — Annual Report of Forest Appeals Commission





Content




27

(1)


By April 30 of each year, the chair of the commission must submit the
annual report for the immediately preceding calendar year required by
section 140.3 (2) of the

Forest and Range Practices Act

.




(2)

The annual report referred to in subsection (1) must contain




(a)

the number of appeals initiated under the

Forest Act

, the

Forest and Range Practices Act

, the

Private Managed Forest Land Act

, the

Range Act

or the

Wildfire Act

, during the year,




(b)

the number of appeals completed under the

Forest Act

, the

Forest and Range Practices Act

, the

Private Managed Forest Land Act

, the

Range Act

or the

Wildfire Act

, during the year,




(c)

the resources used in hearing the appeals,




(d)

a summary of the results of the appeals completed during the year,




(e)

the annual evaluation referred to in section 140.3 (1) (b) of the

Forest and Range Practices Act

, and




(f)

any recommendations referred to in section 140.3 (1) (c) of the

Forest and Range Practices Act

.


[am. B.C. Regs. 83/2006, s. 14; 240/2015, App. 2, s. 8.]




Part 5 — Transition





Repealed




28


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 525/2004, s. (c).]



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Forest and Range Practices Act

, S.B.C. 2002, c. 69, sections 141, 165, 166 and 167]



