







B.C. Reg. 30/2019

O.C. 67/2019


Deposited February 22, 2019






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Agricultural Land Commission Act


Agricultural Land Reserve Use Regulation

[Last amended August 31, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 36/2022]



Part 1 — Interpretation





Definitions




1


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the

Agricultural Land Commission Act

;



"agri-tourism activity"

means an activity referred to in section 12
[agri-tourism]
;


"compost"
means a product that is




(a)

a stabilized earthy matter having the properties and structure of
humus,




(b)

beneficial to plant growth when used as a soil amendment,




(c)

produced by composting, and




(d)

derived only from organic matter;



"controlled environment structure"

means a structure that provides a controlled environment intended to
intensify crop production, including, without limitation,




(a)

a vertical farming system,




(b)

a rotating tray system, or




(c)

any other structure that minimizes the use of land, controls the use
of light, air, water or nutrients or relies in whole or in part on
automation,

but not including



(d)

a greenhouse,




(e)

a structure for mushroom production, or




(f)

a structure described in section 8 (1) (b) or (2) that is used for
producing cannabis in accordance with section 8;



"farm product"

means a commodity that is produced from a farm use but does not
include water;



"gathering for an event"

means a gathering of people on agricultural land for the purpose of
attending




(a)

a wedding, other than a wedding to which paragraph (c) (ii) applies,




(b)

a music festival, or




(c)

an event, other than




(i)

an event held for the purpose of an agri-tourism activity, or




(ii)

the celebration, by residents of the agricultural land and those
persons whom they invite, of a family event for which no fee or other
charge is payable in connection with the event by invitees;



"soil amendment"

means compost, fertilizer, manure, mulch and soil conditioners.

[am. B.C. Reg. 36/2022, s. 1.]





Other laws not ousted




2


For the purpose of section 2 (1) of the Act, a person who engages in a
use of agricultural land that is permitted under this regulation is
not relieved from complying with




(a)

any other enactment that may apply, or




(b)

a decision of a responsible authority that may apply.






If farming extends over multiple parcels




3


Unless a contrary intention appears, a reference to a use of
agricultural land includes all of the agricultural land on which a
single farm operation is conducted, regardless of




(a)

whether activities are conducted over one parcel or multiple parcels,
or




(b)

whether, in the case of multiple parcels, the parcels are adjacent.




Part 2 — Farm Uses



Division 1 — Farm Uses That May Be Prohibited





Controlled environment structures




3.1


The use of agricultural land to construct, maintain or operate a
controlled environment structure is designated as a farm use.

[en. B.C. Reg. 36/2022, s. 2.]



Division 2 — Farm Uses That May Not Be Prohibited





Farm uses that may not be prohibited




4


The farm uses referred to in this Division may not be prohibited




(a)

by a local government enactment except a bylaw under section 552
[farming area bylaws]
of the

Local Government Act

, or




(b)

by a first nation government law, if the activity is conducted on
settlement lands.

[am. B.C. Reg. 36/2022, s. 4.]





Necessary structures and ancillary services




5

(1)


Subject to any limits and conditions set out in this Division, the use
of agricultural land to construct, maintain or operate any of the
following is designated as a farm use and may not be prohibited as
described in section 4:




(a)

a structure, other than a residential structure, that is necessary for
a farm use;




(b)

a driveway or utility that is necessary for a farm use.




(2)

For greater certainty, subsection (1) (a) includes all of the
following:




(a)

a greenhouse;




(b)

a structure for use in an intensive livestock operation or for
mushroom production;




(c)

an aquaculture facility.

[am. B.C. Reg. 36/2022, s. 4.]





Land development works




6

(1)


The use of agricultural land for conducting land development works may
not be prohibited as described in section 4 if the works are required
for farm uses conducted on the agricultural land on which the works
are conducted.




(2)

Without limiting paragraph (b) of the definition of "farm operation"
in section 1 of the

Farm Practices Protection (Right to Farm) Act

, land development works include all of the following:




(a)

levelling and berming agricultural land;




(b)

constructing reservoirs;




(c)

constructing works ancillary to clearing, draining, irrigating,
levelling or berming agricultural land and to constructing reservoirs.






Soil testing, biosolids and soil amendments




7

(1)


Soil sampling conducted on agricultural land, including testing of the
soil samples, may not be prohibited as described in section 4.




(2)

The use of agricultural land for storing and applying biosolids and
soil amendments, other than compost, may not be prohibited as
described in section 4.




(3)

The use of agricultural land for producing, storing and applying
compost may not be prohibited as described in section 4 if, in
the case of




(a)

compost classified as Class A compost under the Organic Matter
Recycling Regulation, all of the compost produced, stored and applied
is used on the agricultural land on which it was produced, or




(b)

any other compost, the compost is from agricultural by-products that
were produced for a farm use.






Cannabis




8

(1)


The use of agricultural land for producing cannabis lawfully may not
be prohibited as described in section 4 if the cannabis is produced




(a)

outdoors in a field, or




(b)

inside a structure that, subject to subsection (2), has a base
consisting entirely of soil.




(2)

The use of agricultural land for producing cannabis lawfully may not
be prohibited as described in section 4 if the cannabis is produced
inside a structure that meets both of the following conditions:




(a)

the structure was, before July 13, 2018,




(i)

constructed for the purpose of growing crops inside it, including but
not limited to producing cannabis lawfully, or




(ii)

under construction for the purpose referred to in subparagraph (i), if
that construction




(A)

was being conducted in accordance with all applicable authorizations
and enactments, and




(B)

continues without interruption from the date it began until the date
the structure is completed, other than work stoppages considered
reasonable in the building industry;




(b)

the structure has not been altered since July 13, 2018 to increase the
size of its base or to change the material used as its base.






Horse facilities




9

(1)


The use of agricultural land for commercial horse riding, training and
boarding may not be prohibited as described in section 4 if both of
the following conditions are met:




(a)

facilities for horse riding do not include a racetrack that is or must
be licensed by the British Columbia Racing Commission;




(b)

no more than 40 horses are boarded on the agricultural land.




(2)

The use of agricultural land for non-commercial horse riding, training
and boarding is designated as a farm use and may not be prohibited as
described in section 4 if both of the conditions referred to in
subsection (1) of this section are met.






Forestry




10


The following uses of agricultural land are designated as farm uses
and may not be prohibited as described in section 4:




(a)

deliberately retaining, introducing and mixing trees or other plants
in crop or animal production systems to provide an economic return,
commonly referred to as "agroforestry";




(b)

producing botanical forest products;




(c)

producing and harvesting timber, including engaging in silviculture
and forest protection activities.






Farm products




11

(1)


In this section,
"association"
has the same meaning as in the

Cooperative Association Act

.




(2)

The use of agricultural land for storing, packing, preparing and
processing farm products is designated as a farm use and may not be
prohibited as described in section 4 if at least 50% of the farm
product is




(a)

produced either on that agricultural land or by an association to
which the owner of the agricultural land belongs, or




(b)

feed required for farm use on that agricultural land.




(3)

The use of agricultural land for conducting farm retail sales is
designated as a farm use and may not be prohibited as described in
section 4 if




(a)

all of the farm products offered for sale are produced on that
agricultural land, or




(b)

the area used for all retail sales meets both of the following
conditions:




(i)

the total area, both indoors and outdoors, does not exceed 300 m
2
;




(ii)

at least 50% of that area is limited to the sale of farm products
produced either on that agricultural land or by an association to
which the owner of the agricultural land belongs.






Agri-tourism




12

(1)


The use of agricultural land for conducting an agri-tourism activity
described in subsection (2) of this section is designated as a
farm use and may not be prohibited as described in section 4 if all of
the following conditions are met:




(a)

the activity is conducted on agricultural land that is classified as a
farm under the

Assessment Act

;




(b)

members of the public are ordinarily invited to the activity, whether
or not a fee or other charge is payable;




(c)

no permanent facilities are constructed or erected in connection with
the activity.




(2)

The following are agri-tourism activities for the purposes of
subsection (1):




(a)

an agricultural heritage exhibit displayed on the agricultural land;




(b)

a tour of the agricultural land, an educational activity or
demonstration in respect of all or part of the farm operation
conducted on that agricultural land, and activities ancillary to any
of these;




(c)

cart, sleigh and tractor rides on the agricultural land;




(d)

subject to section 9
[horse facilities]
, activities that promote or market livestock raised or kept on the
agricultural land, whether or not the activity also involves livestock
raised or kept elsewhere, including shows, cattle driving and petting
zoos;




(e)

dog trials held on the agricultural land;




(f)

harvest festivals and other seasonal events held on the agricultural
land for the purpose of promoting or marketing farm products produced
on that agricultural land;




(g)

corn mazes prepared using corn produced on the agricultural land on
which the activity is taking place.






Alcohol production




13

(1)


In this section:



"alcohol product"

means beer, cider, spirits, mead or wine;



"alcohol production facility"

means a brewery, cidery, distillery, meadery or winery;



"ancillary use"

means the following activities conducted at an alcohol production
facility:




(a)

processing, storing and retail sales of an alcohol product produced by
the alcohol production facility;




(b)

operating a food and beverage service lounge, if the area of the
lounge does not exceed 125 m
2
indoors and 125 m
2
outdoors;




(c)

selling an alcoholic beverage other than one produced by the alcohol
production facility, if the alcoholic beverage is intended to be
consumed immediately and is sold




(i)

as a single serving in a lounge referred to in paragraph (b), or




(ii)

in a service area under a special event area endorsement endorsed on
the licence issued under the

Liquor Control and Licensing Act

for the alcohol production facility;




(d)

conducting a cooking class, if the class is held in a food premises
within the meaning of the Food Premises Regulation that has been
constructed, and is being operated, in compliance with that
regulation;




(e)

gathering for an event, if the event is held only in the lounge
referred to in paragraph (b) or the special event area under a special
event area endorsement referred to in paragraph (c), and, for this
purpose, section 17
[gathering for an event]
does not apply;


"brewery"
,
"cidery"
,
"distillery"
,
"meadery"
and
"winery"
mean a brewery, cidery, distillery, meadery or winery, as applicable,
that is licensed under the

Liquor Control and Licensing Act

to produce beer, cider, spirits, mead or wine;



"primary farm product"

means the farm product that is the primary ingredient used in a
fermentation process to make an alcohol product.




(2)

The use of agricultural land for constructing, maintaining and
operating an alcohol production facility and the use of the facility
for ancillary uses are designated as farm uses and may not be
prohibited as described in section 4 if




(a)

at least 50% of the primary farm product used to make the alcohol
product produced each year is harvested from the agricultural land on
which the alcohol production facility is located, or




(b)

the agricultural land on which the alcohol production facility is
located is more than 2 ha in area and at least 50% of the primary
farm product used to make the alcohol product produced each year is




(i)

harvested from that agricultural land, or




(ii)

both harvested from that agricultural land and received from a farm
operation located in British Columbia that provides that primary farm
product to the alcohol production facility under a contract having a
term of at least 3 years.




(3)

Despite subsection (2), the use of agricultural land for maintaining
and operating a winery or cidery and ancillary uses is designated as a
farm use and may not be prohibited as described in section 4 if




(a)

the winery or cidery




(i)

is the subject of a licence under the

Liquor Control and Licensing Act

to produce wine or cider, issued on or before June 15, 2015,
or




(ii)

is the subject of a letter of eligibility to produce wine or cider,
given in respect of a licensing application made under the

Liquor Control and Licensing Act

and received during the period that begins June 15, 2014 and
ends June 15, 2015, and




(b)

the production of wine or cider by the winery or cidery would be
designated as a farm use under section 2 (2) (b) of the
Agricultural Land Reserve Use, Subdivision and Procedure Regulation as
it read on June 14, 2015.






Controlled environment structures




13.1


The use of agricultural land to construct, maintain or operate a
controlled environment structure may not be prohibited as described in
section 4 if




(a)

the structure that is being constructed, maintained or operated as a
controlled environment structure was constructed or was under
construction before August 31, 2022, and




(b)

the structure is constructed in accordance with all applicable
authorizations and enactments.

[en. B.C. Reg. 36/2022, s. 5.]



Part 3 — Permitted Non-Farm Uses



Division 1 — Permitted Non-Farm Uses That May Not Be Prohibited





Permitted non-farm uses that may not be prohibited




14


The non-farm uses permitted under this Division may not be prohibited




(a)

by a local government enactment, or




(b)

by a first nation government law, if the activity is conducted on
settlement lands.






Necessary structures and ancillary services




15


Subject to any limits and conditions set out in this Division, the use
of agricultural land to construct, maintain or operate any of the
following is permitted and may not be prohibited as described in
section 14:




(a)

a structure, other than a residential structure, that is necessary for
a non-farm use permitted under this Division;




(b)

a driveway or utility that is necessary for a non-farm use permitted
under this Division.






Parks and similar areas




16


The following uses of agricultural land are permitted and may not be
prohibited as described in section 14:




(a)

a park established or continued under the

Park Act

or the

Protected Areas of British Columbia Act

;




(b)

an ecological reserve established or continued under the

Ecological Reserve Act

or the

Protected Areas of British Columbia Act

;




(c)

a wildlife management area designated under the

Wildlife Act

;




(d)

a reserve established under section 15 of the

Land Act

for recreational use;




(e)

a recreation site established under section 56 of the

Forest and Range Practices Act

;




(f)

an area established by order under section 7 (1) of the

Environment and Land Use Act

to protect the environment or restrict land or resource use within the
area.






Gathering for an event




17


The use of agricultural land for the purpose of gathering for an event
is permitted and may not be prohibited as described in section 14
if all of the following conditions are met:




(a)

the event is conducted on agricultural land that is classified as a
farm under the

Assessment Act

;




(b)

no permanent facilities are constructed or erected in connection with
the event;




(c)

parking for those attending the event




(i)

is available on that agricultural land,




(ii)

occurs only in connection with that event, and




(iii)

does not interfere with the productivity of that agricultural land;




(d)

no more than 150 people, excluding residents of the agricultural land
and employees of the farm operation conducted on that agricultural
land, are gathered on that agricultural land at one time for the
purpose of attending the event;




(e)

the event is of no more than 24 hours in duration;




(f)

no more than 10 gatherings for an event of any type occur on that
agricultural land within a single calendar year.






Roads




18


The use of agricultural land for any of the following purposes is
permitted and may not be prohibited as described in section 14:




(a)

constructing and upgrading roads within a dedicated right of way that
has a constructed road bed for vehicular access and use;




(b)

upgrading an existing road that has vehicular access and use and that
is declared to be a highway under section 42 of the

Transportation Act

;




(c)

widening an existing constructed road within a right of way




(i)

to ease one curve, or




(ii)

if the right of way width is 24 m or less, for safety or maintenance
purposes or for drainage or flood control works;




(d)

declaring as a forest service road an existing road under the

Forest Act

or a new road in a managed forest;




(e)

increasing the width of a forest service road within a right of way by
up to 4 m if the right of way width is




(i)

30 m or less, if the forest service road is located on Crown land, or




(ii)

20 m or less, in any other case;




(f)

constructing and upgrading a road, and conducting related works, for
the purpose of realigning Highway 29 between Hudson's Hope and Charlie
Lake, to the extent necessary to




(i)

construct the dam and hydroelectric generating station on the Peace
River known as the Site C Clean Energy Project, and




(ii)

address potential adverse effects on the highway arising from the
operation of the dam and generating station referred to in
subparagraph (i).






Other permitted non-farm uses




19


The use of agricultural land for any of the following purposes is
permitted and may not be prohibited as described in section 14:




(a)

collecting surface water for farm use or domestic use, water well
drilling, connection of water lines and access to water well sites;




(b)

surveying, exploring and prospecting for gravel or minerals if all
cuts, trenches and similar alterations are restored to the natural
ground level on completing the surveying, exploring or prospecting;




(c)

constructing, upgrading and operating a railway on an existing railbed
within a dedicated right of way;




(d)

widening an existing railbed within a right of way if the right of way
width is 30.5 m or less.




Division 2 — Permitted Non-Farm Uses That May Be Prohibited





Permitted non-farm uses that may be prohibited




20


The non-farm uses permitted under this Division may be prohibited




(a)

by a local government enactment, or




(b)

by a first nation government law, if the activity is conducted on
settlement lands.






Necessary structures and ancillary services




21


Subject to any limits and conditions set out in this Division, the use
of agricultural land to construct, maintain or operate any of the
following is permitted but may be prohibited as described in section
20:




(a)

a structure, other than a residential structure, that is necessary for
a non-farm use permitted under this Division;




(b)

a driveway or utility that is necessary for a non-farm use permitted
under this Division.






Parks and similar areas




22

(1)


The following uses of agricultural land are permitted but may be
prohibited as described in section 20:




(a)

an open land park established by a local government or a first nation
government, other than an aboriginal governing body referred to in
paragraph (b) of the definition of "first nation government" in
the Act, for biodiversity conservation, passive recreation, heritage,
wildlife or scenery viewing purposes;




(b)

converting non-forested land to forested land on parcels less than
20 ha, other than for a farm use as described in section 10
[forestry]
.




(2)

The use of agricultural land for biodiversity conservation, passive
recreation, heritage, wildlife and scenery viewing purposes, other
than in a park referred to in subsection (1) (a), is
permitted, but may be prohibited as described in section 20, if
both of the following conditions are met:




(a)

the area occupied by any associated structures does not exceed
100 m
2
for each parcel;




(b)

the purpose does not include the creation of a wetland intended to
manage urban runoff or waste.






Keeping animals




23


The following uses of agricultural land are permitted but may be
prohibited as described in section 20:




(a)

pet breeding and boarding;




(b)

sheltering and caring for surrendered, abandoned or seized livestock;




(c)

providing a refuge for wildlife within the meaning of the

Wildlife Act

.






Home occupation use




24

(1)


The use of agricultural land for a commercial or similar use within a
structure is permitted, but may be prohibited as described in
section 20, if all of the following conditions are met:




(a)

the structure is accessory to and located on the same parcel as a
residence;




(b)

the structure occupies an area that does not exceed




(i)

the limit specified in an applicable local government enactment or
first nation government law, or




(ii)

if subparagraph (i) does not apply, 100 m
2
.




(2)

The conditions set out in subsection (1) do not apply to a type of use
referred to in any other provision of this regulation.






Infrastructure




25


The following uses of agricultural land are permitted but may be
prohibited as described in section 20:




(a)

constructing, maintaining and operating force mains, trunk sewers, gas
pipelines and water lines within an existing dedicated right of way;




(b)

constructing, maintaining and operating, for the purpose of drainage
or irrigation or to combat the threat of flooding,




(i)

dikes and related pumphouses, and




(ii)

ancillary works, including access roads and facilities.






Aggregate removal




26


The use of agricultural land for the purpose of removing aggregate is
permitted, but may be prohibited as described in section 20, if all of
the following conditions are met:




(a)

the total volume of aggregate removed from any single parcel is less
than 500 m
3
;




(b)

regardless of the volume of aggregate removed, the disturbed area is
rehabilitated in accordance with good agricultural practice as soon as
reasonably practicable after




(i)

aggregate removal is complete, if the aggregate is removed as part of
a single continuous operation, or




(ii)

each stage of aggregate removal is complete, if subparagraph (i)
does not apply;




(c)

the cultivable surface layer of soil is salvaged, stored on the parcel
and available for rehabilitation in accordance with
paragraph (b).






Other permitted non-farm uses




27

(1)


The use of agricultural land for producing and developing biological
products used in integrated pest management programs is permitted, but
may be prohibited as described in section 20, if the area occupied by
all structures used for the production or development does not exceed
300 m
2
for each parcel.




(2)

The use of agricultural land for producing, storing and applying
compost classified as Class A compost under the Organic Matter
Recycling Regulation is permitted, but may be prohibited as described
in section 20, if at least 50% but less than 100% of the compost
produced, stored and applied is used on the agricultural land on which
it was produced.




(3)

The use of agricultural land for operating a temporary sawmill is
permitted, but may be prohibited as described in section 20, if at
least 50% of the volume of milled timber is harvested from the
agricultural land on which the sawmill is located.




(4)

The use of agricultural land for education and conducting research
respecting a farm use or permitted non-farm use is permitted, but may
be prohibited as described in section 20, if all of the following
conditions are met:




(a)

the area occupied by any structures necessary for conducting education
or research does not exceed 100 m
2
for each parcel;




(b)

the agricultural land is not used for a school within the meaning of
the

School Act

.




Part 4 — Residential Uses



Division 1 — Residential Uses Generally





Section 20.1 (1) (a) and (b) of Act applies




28


A person who engages in a residential use that is permitted under this
Part is not relieved from complying with
section 20.1 (1) (a) or (b) of the Act, except as
provided under Division 2
[Additional Residences]
of this regulation.

[am. B.C. Reg. 190/2021, s. 2.]





Prescribed residential structures




29

(1)


A structure used, whether permanently or temporarily, to provide or in
connection with providing accommodation as described in this Part is
prescribed as a residential structure for the purposes of the Act.




(2)

A vehicle used, whether permanently or temporarily, to provide or in
connection with providing accommodation as described in this Part is
prescribed as a residential structure for the purposes of this Part.






Necessary structures and ancillary services




30


Subject to any limits and conditions set out in this Part, the use of
agricultural land to construct, maintain or operate any of the
following is permitted:




(a)

a structure, other than a residential structure, that is necessary for
a residential use permitted under this Part;




(b)

a driveway or utility necessary for a residential use permitted under
this Part.






Secondary suites




31


The use of agricultural land for a secondary suite is permitted if
there is one suite only, located in the principal residence.






Repealed




32


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 190/2021, s. 3.]






Agri-tourism accommodation




33

(1)


In this section,
"sleeping unit"
means the following:




(a)

a bedroom or other area used for sleeping located in a residence,
cabin or other structure;




(b)

a vehicle, trailer, tent or other structure located on a campsite,
field or other area.




(2)

The use of agricultural land for providing accommodation in relation
to an agri-tourism activity is permitted if all of the following
conditions are met:




(a)

the accommodation is located on agricultural land that is classified
as a farm under the

Assessment Act

;




(b)

the total developed area for structures, landscaping and access for
the accommodation is less than 5% of any parcel;




(c)

the accommodation is limited to 10 sleeping units in total, including
bedrooms under section 34
[tourist accommodation]
;




(d)

accommodation is provided on a seasonal or short-term basis only.






Tourist accommodation




34

(1)


In this section,
"bedroom"
means a bedroom or other area used for sleeping in a residence.




(2)

The use of agricultural land for providing accommodation for tourists
is permitted in a principal residence that is not a pre-existing
residential structure if both of the following conditions are met:




(a)

the accommodation is limited to 4 bedrooms in total;




(b)

accommodation is provided on a short-term basis only.




(3)

The use of agricultural land for providing accommodation for tourists
is permitted in a principal residence that is a pre-existing
residential structure if all of the following conditions are met:




(a)

on the date this section comes into force, the number of bedrooms
complies with section 3 (1) (d) of the Agricultural Land
Reserve Use, Subdivision and Procedure Regulation, as it read
immediately before this section came into force;




(b)

the number of bedrooms is not changed after the date this section
comes into force unless




(i)

permitted under section 25 or 45 of the Act, or




(ii)

the number of bedrooms is not increased by the change;




(c)

accommodation is provided on a short-term basis only.




Division 2 — Additional Residences





Pre-existing residential structures constructed before
February 22, 2019




34.1

(1)


The use of agricultural land for an additional residence that is a
pre-existing residential structure is permitted if




(a)

the residence is constructed in accordance with all applicable
enactments, and




(b)

on February 22, 2019, the size, siting and use of the residence
complied with section 3 (1) (b) (ii) or
(b.1) (ii) or (iii) of the Agricultural Land Reserve Use,
Subdivision and Procedure Regulation, B.C. Reg. 171/2002, as
it read on February 21, 2019.




(2)

The size and siting of a residence permitted under this section must
not be altered unless one of the following applies:




(a)

the alteration is permitted under section 25 or 45 of the Act;




(b)

in the case of a manufactured home, the alteration does not increase
the size of the manufactured home;




(c)

in the case of residence that is not a manufactured home, the
alteration does not increase the total area occupied by all residences
and other residential structures, roads and service lines, and all
agricultural land between them.

[en. B.C. Reg. 190/2021, s. 4.]





Manufactured homes constructed between July 4, 2019 and
December 31, 2021




34.2

(1)


The use of agricultural land for an additional residence that is a
manufactured home and that is not a pre-existing residential structure
is permitted if




(a)

the residence is constructed in accordance with all applicable
enactments, and




(b)

on December 31, 2021, all conditions with respect to the residence
imposed under section 32 (3), as it read on
December 30, 2021, were met.




(2)

The size and siting of a residence permitted under this section must
not be altered unless permitted under section 25 or 45 of
the Act.

[en. B.C. Reg. 190/2021, s. 4.]





Additional residences constructed after December 30, 2021




34.3

(1)


The use of agricultural land for an additional residence for which
construction begins after December 30, 2021 is permitted on
a parcel if all of the following conditions are met:




(a)

at the time that construction begins, the parcel has located on it
only one residence, whether or not a secondary suite is located in the
residence as permitted under section 31;




(b)

neither residence will be attached to, nor be part of, the other
residence;




(c)

one of the following applies to the residences, as constructed:




(i)

if the parcel is 40 ha or less, there will be




(A)

one residence, the total floor area of which is 500 m
2
or less, and




(B)

one residence, the total floor area of which is 90 m
2
or less;




(ii)

if the parcel is more than 40 ha, there will be




(A)

one residence, the total floor area of which is any size permitted
under the Act, and




(B)

one residence, the total floor area of which is 186 m
2
or less.




(2)

The size of a residence permitted under this section must not be
altered unless one of the following applies:




(a)

the alteration is permitted under section 25 or 45 of the Act;




(b)

the alteration does not increase the size of the residence beyond the
size permitted under subsection (1) (c).




(3)

Nothing in this section prevents the granting of permission, under
section 25 or 45 of the Act, for additional residences to be
constructed after the additional residence permitted under this
section.

[en. B.C. Reg. 190/2021, s. 4.]



Part 5 — Soil or Fill Uses





Permitted soil or fill uses




35


Subject to section 36
[prohibited fill]
, the removal of soil from, or the placement of fill on, agricultural
land for one or more of the following purposes is permitted if all
applicable conditions are met:




(a)

constructing or maintaining a structure for farm use or for a
principal residence if both of the following conditions are met:




(i)

the total area from which soil is removed or on which fill is placed
is 1 000 m
2
or less;




(ii)

if the area from which the soil is removed or on which the fill is
placed is in a floodplain, the resulting elevation level is consistent
with the minimum elevation level established under all applicable
local government enactments and first nation government laws, if any,
respecting flood protection in the floodplain;




(b)

constructing or maintaining berms for producing cranberries, if any
fill placed on the area is




(i)

no higher than 2 m above the natural grade, and




(ii)

no wider than 10 m at the base;




(c)

constructing or maintaining flood protection dikes, drainage,
irrigation and livestock watering works for farm use, if the total
annual volume of soil removed or fill placed is 320 m
3
/16 ha or less;




(d)

maintaining an existing farm road, if the total annual volume of soil
removed or fill placed is equal to or less than the ratio of 50 m
3
of soil or fill to 100 m of existing road length;




(e)

using clean sand as a top-dress for berry production, if the total
annual volume of soil removed or fill placed is 100 m
3
/ha or less;




(f)

applying soil amendments, if incorporated into the soil to a depth of
30 cm or less;




(g)

conducting soil research and testing, if the soil removed or fill
placed is limited to the amount necessary for the research or testing.

[am. B.C. Reg. 149/2020, Sch. 2, s. 1.]





Prohibited fill




36

(1)


Except as permitted under subsection (2), the following must not be
used as fill on agricultural land:




(a)

construction or demolition waste, including masonry rubble, concrete,
cement, rebar, drywall and wood waste;




(b)

asphalt;




(c)

glass;




(d)

synthetic polymers;




(e)

treated wood;




(f)

unchipped lumber.




(2)

Recycled concrete aggregate and recycled asphalt pavement may be used
as fill on agricultural land for the purpose of maintaining an
existing farm road as described in section 35 (d).




(3)

For the purposes of subsection (2),
"recycled concrete aggregate"
and
"recycled asphalt pavement"
mean concrete and asphalt that




(a)

have been recovered from a demolition process,




(b)

have been crushed to a particle size




(i)

that may pass through a 1.905 cm screen, in the case of recycled
concrete aggregate, or




(ii)

of 1.905 cm
3
or smaller, in the case of recycled asphalt pavement, and




(c)

do not include, or are not combined with, metal, plastic, rubber,
wood, glass, paper, organic materials or other contaminants.

[am. B.C. Reg. 149/2020, Sch. 2, s. 2.]


[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Agricultural Land Commission Act

, S.B.C. 2002, c. 36, ss. 58 and 58.6.]



