







B.C. Reg. 388/2003

O.C. 1012/2003


Deposited October 24, 2003







This consolidation is current to August 29, 2023.

See the

Cumulative B.C. Regulations Bulletin 2023


for amendments effective after August 29, 2023.





Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Business Number Act


Business Number Regulation


[includes amendments up to B.C. Reg. 10/2019, January 24, 2019]






Definitions




1


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the

Business Number Act

;



"program account number"

means a number, consisting of the business number and an alphanumeric
identifier, assigned to a business entity by a public body, that is
used by the public body in administering a program under a designated
enactment.






Adoption of system of business numbers




2


The numbering system used by the Minister of National Revenue for the
purposes of the definition of "business number" in the

Income Tax Act

(Canada) is adopted as the system of business numbers for identifying
business entities for the purposes of the Act.






Prescribed business information




3


The following information about a business entity is prescribed for
the purposes of the definition of "business information":




(a)

its business number;




(b)

its program account number;




(c)

an identification number assigned to the entity by a public body in
administering a designated enactment before a business number was
assigned to the entity under this Act;




(d)

its telephone number and facsimile number;




(e)

its electronic mail address;




(f)

the number of the registration certificate issued to the entity under
the

Social Service Tax Act

;




(g)

the number of the registration certificate issued to the entity under
the

Hotel Room Tax Act

;




(h)

the number of the dealer's permit issued to the entity under the

Tobacco Tax Act

;




(i)

the active or closed status of the business number, the reason for a
change of status and the date on which the status changed;




(j)

the active or closed status of a program account number, the reason
for a change of status and the date on which the status changed;




(k)

if the entity is a partnership, the names of at least two partners;




(l)

if the entity, under the

Business Corporations Act

,

Cooperative Association Act

or

Societies Act

, as applicable,




(i)

has had published in respect of the entity a notice that the entity
may be dissolved or have its registration cancelled,




(ii)

is dissolved or its registration is cancelled,




(iii)

is restored,




(iv)

is continued in British Columbia or under the laws of another
jurisdiction,




(v)

is an amalgamated company, association or society, or was part of an
amalgamation,




(vi)

has a receiver or receiver manager appointed,




(vii)

has a liquidator appointed, or




(viii)

has changed its name;




(m)

if the entity is registered or has a certificate filed under the

Partnership Act

, whether the entity has had a notice of dissolution filed in respect
of the entity or whether its registration or certificate has been
cancelled;




(n)

the registration number issued to the entity under the

Provincial Sales Tax Act

;




(o)

the registration number issued to the entity under the

Employer Health Tax Act

.


[am. B.C. Regs. 406/2004, s. (b); 111/2006, s. (a); 330/2012, Sch. 1,
s. 1; 211/2015, s. 13; 10/2019, s. 1.]






Designated enactments




4


The following Acts and the regulations made under those Acts are
designated enactments for the purposes of the Act:




Agricultural Produce Grading Act




Agri-Food Choice and Quality Act




Animal Health Act




Assessment Act




Business Corporations Act




Cannabis Control and Licensing Act




Cannabis Distribution Act




Carbon Tax Act




Clean Energy Act




Coal Act




Consumption Tax Rebate and Transition Act




Cooperative Association Act




Creston Valley Wildlife Act




Dike Maintenance Act




Drainage, Ditch and Dike Act




Drinking Water Protection Act




Ecological Reserve Act




Employer Health Tax Act




Environmental Assessment Act




Environmental Management Act




Farm Income Insurance Act




Financial Administration Act




Fish Inspection Act




Fisheries Act




Food Safety Act




Forest Act




Forest and Range Practices Act




Forest Practices Code of British Columbia Act




Forestry Revitalization Act




Forestry Service Providers Protection Act




Greenhouse Gas Reduction (Cap and Trade) Act





Greenhouse Gas Reduction (Renewable and Low Carbon Fuel
Requirements) Act





Greenhouse Gas Reduction Targets Act




Heritage Conservation Act




Hotel Room Tax Act




Income Tax Act




Industrial Roads Act




Insurance for Crops Act




Insurance Premium Tax Act




Integrated Pest Management Act




International Business Activity Act




Land Act




Land Title Act




Liquor Control and Licensing Act




Liquor Distribution Act




Logging Tax Act




Milk Industry Act




Mineral Land Tax Act




Mineral Tax Act




Mineral Tenure Act




Mines Act




Mining Right of Way Act




Ministry of Agriculture and Food Act




Ministry of Lands, Parks and Housing Act




Motor Fuel Tax Act




Natural Gas Price Act




New Housing Transition Tax and Rebate Act




Oil and Gas Activities Act




Park Act




Partnership Act




Petroleum and Natural Gas Act




Plant Protection Act




Procurement Services Act




Property Transfer Tax Act




Provincial Sales Tax Act




Railway Act




Railway Safety Act




Range Act




Riparian Areas Protection Act




Seed Potato Act




Significant Projects Streamlining Act




Social Service Tax Act




Societies Act




Sustainable Environment Fund Act




Taxation (Rural Area) Act




Tobacco Tax Act




Transport of Dangerous Goods Act




Transportation Act




Veterinary Drugs Act




Water Sustainability Act




Water Users' Communities Act




Weed Control Act




Wildfire Act




Wildlife Act




Workers Compensation Act



[en. B.C. Reg. 11/2015; am. B.C. Regs. 81/2015; 41/2016, s. 5;
211/2015, s. 14; 201/2018; 10/2019, s. 2.]



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Business Number Act

, S.B.C. 2003, c. 50, ss. 3 and 12]



