







B.C. Reg. 527/95

O.C. 1589/95


Deposited December 15, 1995

effective January 29, 1996






This consolidation is current to January 9, 2024.

See the

Cumulative B.C. Regulations Bulletin 2023


for amendments effective after January 9, 2024.





Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Child, Family and Community Service Act


Child, Family and Community Service Regulation

[Last amended March 30, 2023 by B.C. Reg. 82/2023]



Part 1 — Introductory Provisions





Definitions




1


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the

Child, Family and Community Service Act

;



"administrative review"

means a review conducted in response to a request under section 15
(1);



"interim plan of care"

means a plan of care prepared for a presentation hearing;



"review authority"

means the person or persons designated under section 14 to
conduct an administrative review.


[am. B.C. Regs. 400/99, s. 1; 350/2005, Sch. 4, s. 1.]






Best interests of child




2


Where there is a reference in this regulation to the best interests of
a child, all relevant factors must be considered in determining the
child's best interests, including for example, the factors listed in
section 4 of the Act.




Part 2 — Family Support Agreements, Reports and Plans of Care





Terms to be included in agreements




3


An agreement under section 5, 6 or 7 of the Act must include terms
permitting




(a)

the parent to terminate the agreement on giving the director notice as
set out in the agreement, and




(b)

the director to terminate the agreement on giving the parent notice as
set out in the agreement, which must provide for at least 7 days'
notice.






Reports to court about removal, return and withdrawal from proceeding




4

(1)


For the purpose of section 33.2 (1) of the Act, a report must be in
Form F.




(2)

For the purposes of sections 35 (1) and 42.1 (5) of the Act, a report
on the circumstances that caused a director to remove a child must be
in Form A.




(3)

For the purposes of




(a)

a return under section 33 (1.1),




(a.1)

section 33.01 (2),




(b)

section 33 (3), and




(c)

section 48 (2)


of the Act, a report or withdrawal must be in Form B.




(4)

Despite subsections (1) to (3), an address and telephone number of a
person other than the director need not be included in a report or
withdrawal if it might result in a person being molested, harassed or
annoyed.


[en. B.C. Reg. 171/98, s. 1; am. B.C. Regs. 350/2005, Sch. 4, s. 2;
82/2014, Sch. s. 1; 187/2018, App., s. 1.]






Information about less disruptive measures




5


For the purposes of section 35 (1) (c) of the Act, information about
any less disruptive measures considered by a director before removing
a child must be in Form A.

[am. B.C. Reg. 171/98, s. 2.]





Plans of care




6


A plan of care must be prepared in writing by the director responsible
for the child.






Contents of interim plan of care




7

(1)


An interim plan of care relating to the removal of a child under
sections 30 and 42 of the Act must be in Form A.




(1.1)

An interim plan of care relating to an application under
section 29.1 of the Act must be in Form F.




(2)

In addition to the information required under sections 35 (1) (c),
33.2 (1) (b) and 42.1 (5) of the Act, an interim plan of care must
include the following:




(a)

the child's name, sex, and date of birth;




(b)

the child's current living arrangement;




(c)

whether or not the child's views on the plan have been considered;




(d)

if known, the name, date of birth, home address and home and work
telephone numbers of the child's parents;




(e)

whether or not the parents have been involved in the development of
the plan;




(f)

the name, business address and business telephone number of the
director responsible for the child, including an after-hours emergency
phone number;




(g)

the director's recommendations about the care and supervision of the
child and about access to the child;




(h)

if the child is an Indigenous child, the steps to be taken to support
the child to learn about and practise the child's Indigenous
traditions, customs and language and to belong to the child's
Indigenous community.




(3)

Despite subsection (2) (b) and (d), an address and telephone number of
a person other than the director need not be included if it might
result in a person being molested, harassed or annoyed.


[am. B.C. Regs. 171/98, s. 3; 350/2005, Sch. 4, s. 3; 17/2019, App.,
s. 1.]






Contents of other plans of care




8

(1)


In this section,
"plan of care"
means a plan of care prepared for a court hearing to consider an
application for an order,




(a)

other than an interim order, that a child be returned to or remain in
the custody of the parent apparently entitled to custody and be under
a director's supervision for a specified period, or




(b)

that a child be placed in the custody of a director under




(i)

a temporary custody order, or




(ii)

a continuing custody order.




(2)

A plan of care must include the following information:




(a)

the child's name, sex, and date of birth;




(b)

the child's current living arrangement and whether an order has been
made under the Act about the child;




(c)

the overall goal of the plan of care;




(d)

whether or not the child's views on the plan of care have been
considered;




(e)

if known, the name, date of birth, home address and home and work
telephone numbers of the child's parents and siblings;




(f)

the name, business address and business telephone number of the
director responsible for the child, including an after-hours emergency
phone number;




(g)

in the case of an Indigenous child other than a Treaty First Nation
child or a Nisg̱a'a child, the name of the child's First Nation or
Indigenous community, in the case of a Treaty First Nation child, the
name of the child's Treaty First Nation and in the case of a Nisg̱a'a
child, the Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government;




(h)

the parents' involvement in the development of the plan of care,
including their views, if any, on the plan;




(i)

in the case of an Indigenous child other than a Treaty First Nation
child or a Nisg̱a'a child, the involvement of the child's First Nation
or Indigenous community, in the case of a Treaty First Nation child,
the involvement of the child's Treaty First Nation and in the case of
a Nisg̱a'a child, the involvement of the Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government, in
the development of the plan of care, including its views, if any, on
the plan;




(j)

if the director is applying for an order described in subsection (1)
(a) or a temporary custody order,




(i)

a description of the services to be provided to the parent as agreed
to by the parent, and




(ii)

the goals of the services to be provided to the parent and the method
of determining if they have been met;




(k)

a description of the services to be provided to the child;




(l)

the goals of the services to be provided to the child and the method
of determining if they have been met;




(m)

a description of how the director proposes to meet the child's need
for




(i)

continuity of relationships, including ongoing contact with parents,
relatives and friends,




(ii)

continuity of education and of health care, including care for any
special health care needs the child may have, and




(iii)

continuity of cultural heritage, religion, language, and social and
recreational activities;




(n)

in the case of an Indigenous child, the steps to be taken to support
the child to learn about and practise the child's Indigenous
traditions, customs and language and to belong to the child's
Indigenous community and to comply with section 71 (3) of the Act;




(o)

a description of any outstanding needs of the child that have not been
resolved and the plan for resolving them;




(p)

if the director intends to apply for a continuing custody order, a
description of the arrangements being made to meet the child's need
for permanent stable relationships;




(q)

a schedule for the review of the plan of care.




(3)

Despite subsection (2) (b) and (e), an address and telephone number of
a person other than the director need not be included if it might
result in a person being molested, harassed or annoyed.


[am. B.C. Regs. 331/2002, App. 2, s. 1; 36/2009, s. 1; 274/2012, Sch.
s. 1; 17/2019, App., s. 2.]






Contents of plan of care if director seeking order that child be
placed in temporary or permanent custody of care provider




8.01

(1)


In this section:



"care provider"

means the person, other than a director or parent, in whose custody
the director is applying to the court for




(a)

a temporary custody order to place a child, or




(b)

an order under section 54.01 (5) of the Act to permanently transfer
custody of a child;



"plan of care"

means a plan of care prepared for a court hearing to consider an
application that a child be placed in the temporary or permanent
custody of a care provider.




(2)

A plan of care must include the following information:




(a)

the information described in section 8 (2) (a), (c) to (e), (g) to
(i), and (o);




(b)

the child's current living arrangement and whether




(i)

an agreement has been made under section 8 (1) of the Act about the
child,




(ii)

an order has been made under the Act about the child, and




(iii)

an application is being made for a temporary custody order or an order
permanently transferring custody under section 54.01 (5) of the Act;




(c)

the name, business address and business telephone number of the
director providing services to the child, including an after-hours
emergency phone number;




(d)

the care provider's involvement in the development of the plan of care
including the care provider's views on the plan;




(e)

a description of the services to be provided to the care provider as
agreed to by the care provider;




(f)

the goals of the services to be provided to the care provider and the
method of determining if they have been met;




(g)

whether financial assistance is to be provided to the care provider;




(h)

a description of how the care provider proposes to meet the child's
need for




(i)

continuity of relationships, including ongoing contact with parents,
relatives and friends,




(ii)

continuity of education and health care, including care for any
special health care needs the child may have, and




(iii)

continuity of cultural heritage, religion, language, and social and
recreational activities;




(i)

in the case of an Indigenous child, the steps to be taken to support
the child to learn about and practise the child's Indigenous
traditions, customs and language and to belong to the child's
Indigenous community;




(j)

confirmation that the director is satisfied with the care provider's
ability to care for the child;




(k)

if the director is applying for a temporary custody order,




(i)

a description of the services to be provided to the parent as agreed
to by the parent,




(ii)

a description of the services to be provided to the child, and




(iii)

the goals of the services to be provided to the parent and the child
and the method of determining if they have been met.




(3)

Despite subsection (2) (a) and (b), an address and telephone number of
a person other than the director need not be included if it might
result in a person being molested, harassed or annoyed.


[en. B.C. Reg. 274/2012, Sch. s. 2; am. B.C. Regs. 82/2014, Sch. s. 2;
17/2019, App., s. 3.]




Part 2.1 — Agreements with Youths and Adults





When a youth needs assistance




8.1


A director may enter into an agreement with a youth under section 12.2
of the Act only if the director is satisfied that each of the
following apply in respect to the youth:




(a)

the youth




(i)

is affected by a significant adverse condition, such as severe
substance abuse, a significant behavioural or mental disorder, or
sexual exploitation as that term is used in section 13 (1.1) of the
Act,




(ii)

is in the care of a director under an order or agreement that is about
to expire, and it would be in the best interests of the youth if an
agreement under section 12.2 of the Act were in place following expiry
of the order or agreement, or




(iii)

is or is likely to be in need of protection as described in section 13
of the Act, and an agreement with the youth under section 12.2 of the
Act would be a safe and effective alternative to dealing with the
youth under Part 3 of the Act;




(b)

reasonable efforts to support the youth in the home of the youth's
parent or other adult person have been unsuccessful;




(c)

the youth requires services and assistance as described by section
12.2 (2) of the Act beyond that which is available to the youth
through other sources, including through other government delivered or
government sponsored programs;




(d)

the youth understands the responsibilities and implications of
entering into the agreement;




(e)

the youth demonstrates ability and readiness to




(i)

engage in supported independent living,




(ii)

address and manage risks that may affect the youth's safety and
well-being, and




(iii)

implement a plan for independence prepared under section 12.2 (3) of
the Act.


[en. B.C. Reg. 464/2003; am. B.C. Reg. 350/2005, Sch. 4, s. 4.]






Contents of plan for independence




8.2


For the purposes of section 12.2 (3) of the Act, a plan for
independence must contain the following:




(a)

a description of the behavioural commitments of the youth, the
responsibilities and promised acts of the youth and the director under
the agreement, and any relevant timelines;




(b)

information necessary to support and preserve the youth's cultural,
racial, linguistic and religious heritage;




(c)

in the case of an Indigenous youth, information necessary to support
the youth to learn about and practise the youth's Indigenous
traditions, customs and language and to belong to the youth's
Indigenous community;




(d)

a description of the youth's plan to make the transition to
independence, addressing education, employment, residential
arrangements and interpersonal relationships;




(e)

a plan outlining how the youth's performance under the agreement,
including accomplishments and successes, will be monitored throughout
the term of the agreement.


[en. B.C. Reg. 400/99, s. 3; am. B.C. Reg. 17/2019, App., s. 4.]






Person eligible to enter into adult agreement




8.3


A director may enter into an agreement under section 12.3 of the Act
with a person who, until the person's 19th birthday,




(a)

received support services or financial assistance, or both, under
section 12.2 of the Act,




(b)

was in the continuing custody of a director, or




(c)

was in the guardianship of a director of adoption or of a director
under section 51 of the

Infants Act

.

[en. B.C. Reg. 240/2016, App., s. 2.]





Maximum duration of adult agreements




8.4


Whether one or more directors enters into one or more agreements under
section 12.3 of the Act with a person,




(a)

the total of the terms of all the agreements, including renewals of
the agreements, must not exceed 84 months, and




(b)

no agreement may extend beyond the person's 27th birthday.


[en. B.C. Reg. 240/2016, App., s. 2; am. B.C. Regs. 20/2018; 82/2023,
s. (a).]






Time limits extended due to COVID-19 emergency




8.5

(1)


In this section:


"agreement"
means an agreement made under section 12.3 of the Act;



"COVID-19 emergency"

means the emergency that is the subject of




(a)

the notice provided on March 17, 2020 by the provincial health officer
under section 52 (2) of the

Public Health Act

, and




(b)

the declaration of a state of emergency made on March 18, 2020, and
any extension of that declaration, under section 9 of the

Emergency Program Act

;



"eligible person"

means an adult




(a)

with whom a director has entered into an agreement,




(b)

who was, on or after March 17, 2020, enrolled in a program referred to
in the agreement, and




(c)

who did not voluntarily cease enrolment in the program during the
suspension period;



"end of the COVID-19 emergency"

means the later of the following:




(a)

the date on which the provincial health officer provides notice under
section 59 (b) of the

Public Health Act

that the COVID-19 emergency has passed;




(b)

the date on which the last extension of the declaration of a state of
emergency, referred to in paragraph (b) of the definition of "COVID-19
emergency", expires or is cancelled;


"enrolled"
, in relation to a life skills or rehabilitative program, includes to
be registered or otherwise listed as a person who is taking part in
the program;


"program"
means any of the following types of programs that are referred to in
an eligible adult's agreement:




(a)

an educational or vocational training program;




(b)

a life skills or rehabilitative program;



"suspension period"

means the period that begins March 17, 2020 and ends as follows:




(a)

if the end of the COVID-19 emergency occurs on or before the 15th day
of a month, on the last day of the month;




(b)

if the end of the COVID-19 emergency occurs after the 15th day of a
month, on the last day of the following month.




(2)

This section applies despite section 8.4 and anything to the contrary
in an eligible person's agreement.




(3)

The running of the period set out in section 8.4 (a) is suspended, in
relation to an eligible person, during the suspension period if a
director is satisfied of either of the following:




(a)

the eligible person is not participating in a program because the
program is temporarily suspended for a reason related to the COVID-19
emergency;




(b)

the eligible person




(i)

is not participating in a program because the program is suspended as
scheduled, and




(ii)

is not employed or otherwise self-supporting for a reason related to
the COVID-19 emergency.




(4)

If an eligible person to whom subsection (3) applies turns 27 years
old either during the suspension period or, if the eligible person's
program resumes, during the current term of the program, the limit set
out in section 8.4 (b) does not apply and the director may continue
payments under the agreement until whichever of the following applies:




(a)

on the date on which the director is satisfied that the eligible
person's program will not resume;




(b)

if the eligible person's program resumes, the end of the month in
which the current term of the program ends.


[en. B.C. Reg. 95/2020; am. B.C. Reg. 82/2023, s. (b).]




Part 3 — Mediation





Child protection mediators




9

(1)


For the purposes of section 22 of the Act, a director must establish a
roster of mediators.




(2)

If a director and another person agree to mediation as a means of
resolving an issue relating to a child or a plan of care, the director
must choose from the roster a mediator acceptable to the other person.






Assistance with costs of attending mediation




10


If a person who has agreed with a director on mediation needs
assistance, the director may pay all or part of any day-to-day
expenses that are necessary for the person to attend mediation,
including expenses for




(a)

transportation,




(b)

day care, and




(c)

food.

[am. B.C. Reg. 350/2005, Sch. 4, s. 5.]



Part 4 — Indigenous Organizations and

Designated Representatives





Indigenous legal entity




10.1


For the purposes of paragraph (b) of the definition of "First Nation"
in section 1 of the Act, the following Indigenous legal entities are
prescribed:




(a)

Westbank First Nation;




(b)

Sechelt Indian Band established under the

Sechelt Indian Band Self-Government Act

(Canada).

[en. B.C. Reg. 17/2019, App., s. 6.]





Indigenous organizations




11


For the purpose of being informed by the director under section 33.1
(4) (c), 34 (3) (d), 36 (2.1) (e) or 42.1 (3) (c) of the Act about
presentation hearings,




(a)

the Indigenous organizations listed in Column 2 of Schedule 1 are
prescribed for cases involving First Nations children of the First
Nations listed opposite in Column 1, and




(b)

the Indigenous organizations listed in Column 2 of Schedule 2 are
prescribed for cases involving Indigenous children, other than Treaty
First Nation children, Nisg̱a'a children and children referred to in
paragraph (a),




(i)

who are 12 years of age or over and have identified any of the
Indigenous communities listed opposite in Column 1, or




(ii)

who are under 12 years of age and whose parents have identified any of
the Indigenous communities listed opposite in Column 1.

[en. B.C. Reg. 17/2019, App., s. 7.]





Designated representatives




12

(1)


The designated representative of a First Nation is as follows:




(a)

if the First Nation is named in Column 1 of Schedule 1, a person who
holds a position listed opposite in Column 3;




(b)

if the First Nation is not named in Column 1 of Schedule 1, a person
who, for that First Nation,




(i)

holds the position of First Nation manager,




(ii)

holds a position of social development officer, or




(iii)

if there is neither a First Nation manager nor a social development
officer for that First Nation, holds an equivalent position.




(2)

The designated representative of the Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government is a
person who holds the position listed in Schedule 1A.




(2.1)

The designated representative of a Treaty First Nation listed in
Column 1 of Schedule 1B is a person who holds the position listed
opposite in Column 2.




(3)

The designated representative of an Indigenous community listed in
Column 1 of Schedule 2 is a person who holds a position listed
opposite in Column 3.


[en. B.C. Reg. 331/2002, App. 2, s. 3; am. B.C. Regs. 36/2009, s. 2;
17/2019, App., s. 8.]




Part 4.1 — Agreements with Indigenous Communities





Additional purposes




12.1


The following purposes are prescribed in respect of which a director
may make an agreement under section 92.1 (2) (c) of the Act:




(a)

to assist the First Nation, Nisg̱a'a Nation, Treaty First Nation or
Indigenous community to fulfill its shared responsibility for the
upbringing and well-being of its Indigenous children by providing to
the First Nation, Nisg̱a'a Nation, Treaty First Nation or Indigenous
community, on a regular basis,




(i)

the name, date of birth and care status of all of its Indigenous
children whose care status is described by one of the following:




(A)

a child in care;




(B)

a child who is not described in clause (A) and who is the subject of
an interim order for custody or a temporary custody order made under
the Act, and




(ii)

the names of the parents of each child referred to in subparagraph (i)
unless the child is a child in care under section 6 or 7 of the Act;




(b)

to involve the First Nation, Nisg̱a'a Nation, Treaty First Nation or
Indigenous community in the development of less disruptive measures
respecting the Indigenous children of the First Nation, Nisg̱a'a
Nation, Treaty First Nation or Indigenous community.

[en. B.C. Reg. 17/2019, App., s. 9.]



Part 5 — Administrative Reviews





Repealed




13


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 350/2005, Sch. 4, s. 6.]






Director to designate persons to conduct reviews




14

(1)


A director must designate a person or persons as a review authority to
conduct administrative reviews.




(2)

A person who was involved in the matter under review must not be
designated as a review authority for that matter.

[am. B.C. Reg. 57/2012, s. 1.]





Request for review




15

(0.1)


In this section:



"delegate of the Representative for Children and Youth"

means a person acting under authority delegated to the person under
section 8 of the

Representative for Children and Youth Act

to perform the functions under section 6 (a) (ii) of that Act;



"Representative for Children and Youth"

means the Representative for Children and Youth appointed under
section 2 of the

Representative for Children and Youth Act

;



"young adult"

means a person who has entered into an agreement, or is eligible to
enter into an agreement, with a director under section 12.3 of the
Act.




(1)

Any of the following may, at any time, request an administrative
review of any decision, act or failure to act of a director that
relates to a service to a child, young adult or family under Part 2,
2.1, 3 or 4 of the Act or to a decision respecting section 75, 76, 77
or 79 of the Act:




(a)

the child;




(b)

the young adult;




(c)

a parent of the child;




(d)

the Representative for Children and Youth or a delegate of the
Representative for Children and Youth;




(e)

any person representing the child, young adult or parent.




(2)

A request for an administrative review




(a)

must be made to a director, and




(b)

may be made in writing, in person, by telephone or by any other means.




(3)

A director must ensure that information about the right to request an
administrative review and about the review process is available to
anyone




(a)

who asks the director to provide services under Part 2, 2.1, 3
or 4 of the Act,




(b)

who is provided with those services,




(c)

who exercises a right in relation to section 76, or




(d)

to whom the director refuses to disclose information under section 77.


[am. B.C. Regs. 400/99, s. 5; 350/2005, Sch. 4, s. 7; 57/2012, s. 2;
273/2012, ss. 1 and 2 (a).]






Decision not to proceed with review




16

(1)


A review authority may decide not to proceed with an administrative
review if




(a)

the review authority considers that the request for review does not
relate to a matter mentioned in section 15 (1),




(b)

the child or young adult, as applicable, who would be the subject of
the review, or the person who requested the review, does not want to
proceed with the review,




(c)

the director and the person who requested the review agree to an
alternate mechanism for resolving the matter,




(d)

the director resolves the matter to the satisfaction of the person who
requested the review,




(e)

the matter is before the court, or




(f)

the review authority considers that the remedy sought from it would
conflict with an order or decision of the court.




(2)

On deciding not to proceed with an administrative review, the review
authority must notify the person who requested the review of the
decision and the reasons.


[am. B.C. Regs. 400/99, s. 6; 350/2005, Sch. 4, s. 8; 57/2012, s. 3.]






How reviews are conducted




17

(1)


A review authority




(a)

must commence an administrative review as soon as possible after a
request is made, and




(b)

must complete the review within 30 days after the request is made,
unless




(i)

the review authority decides under section 16 not to proceed with the
review, or




(ii)

the review authority and the person who requested the review agree to
extend the time limit.




(2)

The review authority must make reasonable efforts to determine the
views of




(a)

the child, if the child is the subject of the review,




(a.1)

the young adult, if the young adult is the subject of the review,




(b)

the person requesting the administrative review, and




(c)

the director concerned.




(3)

The review authority may seek the views of and information from any
person if the review authority believes it necessary to do so in order
to make a decision about the review.

[am. B.C. Reg. 57/2012, s. 4.]





Factors to be considered




18


In arriving at its decision, a review authority must consider




(a)

the principles in sections 2 and 3 of the Act,




(b)

the policies and procedures for the administration of the Act, and




(c)

available resources.






Outcome of review




19

(1)


On completing the administrative review, the review authority may
recommend that the director concerned do anything that could legally
have been done in the circumstances under review.




(2)

Within 7 days of completing the administrative review, the review
authority must provide a copy of its decision to




(a)

the person who requested the review, including a child or young adult,




(a.1)

the child, if the child is the subject of the review and will not be
provided a copy of the decision under paragraph (a), unless, in the
opinion of the review authority, it is not in the child's best
interests to provide the child with a copy of the decision,




(a.2)

the young adult, if the young adult is the subject of the review and
will not be provided a copy of the decision under paragraph (a),




(b)

the director, and




(c)

any other person the review authority considers necessary to ensure
that the Act is administered in accordance with the principles in
sections 2 and 3 of the Act.

[am. B.C. Regs. 57/2012, s. 5; 273/2012, s. 2 (b).]



Part 5.1 — Reviews Relating to Services





Criteria for when a director must consider conducting a review




19.1

(1)


In this section,
"critical injury"
means an injury to a child that may




(a)

result in the child's death, or




(b)

cause serious or long-term impairment of the child's health.




(2)

After a director becomes aware of the critical injury or death of a
child, the director must consider conducting a review of that critical
injury or death if




(a)

the child or the child's family was receiving a service under the Act
at the time of, or in the year previous to, the critical injury or
death of the child, and




(b)

in the opinion of the director, the service received, or a policy or
practice relating to the service received, may have significantly
contributed to the critical injury or death of the child.

[en. B.C. Reg. 188/2007, s. (a).]



Part 6





Repealed




20-24


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 350/2005, Sch. 4, s. 9.]




Part 7 — Other Provisions





Definition for disclosure purposes




25


For the purposes of disclosure under section 64 of the Act before a
protection hearing,
"party to a proceeding"
includes any of the following:




(a)

each parent of the child;




(b)

a director;




(c)

in the case of an Indigenous child,




(i)

if the child is a First Nation child, a representative of that First
Nation,




(ii)

if the child is a Nisg̱a'a child, a representative of the Nisg̱a'a
Lisims Government,




(ii.1)

if the child is a Treaty First Nation child, a representative of the
Treaty First Nation, and




(iii)

in any other case,




(A)

if the child is 12 years of age or older, a representative of an
Indigenous community identified by the child, or




(B)

if the child is under 12 years of age, a representative of an
Indigenous community identified by the parents of the child;




(d)

any person specified by the court.


[am. B.C. Regs. 331/2002, App. 2, s. 4; 36/2009, s. 3; 17/2019, App.,
s. 10.]






Disclosure of personal information in reports relating to services




25.1

(1)


In this section,
"third party"
means any person.




(2)

For the purposes of releasing a finalized report or part of a
finalized report under section 79 (g.2) of the Act, a director must
not disclose personal information in the report or part of the report
if the disclosure would be an unreasonable invasion of a third party's
personal privacy under section 22 (2) to (4) of the

Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act

.

[en. B.C. Reg. 188/2007, s. (b).]





Repealed




26


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 350/2005, Sch. 4, s. 10.]






Forms




27


The forms in Schedule 3 are prescribed for the purposes of the Act and
this regulation.




Schedule 1


[en. B.C. Reg. 331/2002, App. 2, s. 5; am. B.C. Regs. 350/2005, Sch. 4.
s. 11; 36/2009, s. 4; 53/2011, Sch. 2, s. 1; 15/2016, Sch. 2, s. 1;
17/2019, App., s. 11.]





Column 1

First Nation


Column 2


Indigenous

Organization



Column 3

Designated Representative



Adams Lake First Nation
Adams Lake First Nation
First Nation Social Worker


Ahousaht First Nation
Ahousaht First Nation

First Nation Manager or Family Care Worker



Aitchelitz First Nation
Aitchelitz First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Alexandria First Nation
Alexandria First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Alexis Creek First Nation
Alexis Creek First Nation
First Nation Social Worker


Ashcroft First Nation
Ashcroft First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Beecher Bay First Nation
Beecher Bay First Nation

First Nation Chief or First Nation Social Worker



Blueberry River First Nation
Blueberry River First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Bonaparte First Nation
Bonaparte First Nation
First Nation Social Worker


Boothroyd First Nation
Boothroyd First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Boston Bar First Nation
Boston Bar First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Bridge River First Nation
Bridge River First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Burns Lake First Nation
Burns Lake First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Burrard First Nation
Burrard First Nation
Social Development Director


Campbell River First Nation
Campbell River First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Canim Lake First Nation
Canim Lake First Nation
First Nation Social Worker


Canoe Creek First Nation
Canoe Creek First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Cape Mudge First Nation
Cape Mudge First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Cayoose Creek First Nation
Cayoose Creek First Nation
First Nation Social Worker


Chawathil First Nation
Chawathil First Nation

First Nation Social Development Worker



Cheam First Nation
Cheam First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Chehalis First Nation
Chehalis First Nation

First Nation Family Support Worker



Chemainus First Nation
Chemainus First Nation
First Nation Social Worker


Cheslatta Carrier First Nation
Cheslatta Carrier First Nation
First Nation Social Worker


Coldwater First Nation
Coldwater First Nation
Social Services Coordinator


Columbia Lake First Nation
Columbia Lake First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Comox First Nation
Comox First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Cook's Ferry First Nation
Cook's Ferry First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Coordinator or Equivalent



Cowichan First Nation
Cowichan First Nation
First Nation Administrator



Da'naxda'xw First Nation (aka Tanakteuk First Nation)

Da'naxda'xw First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Dease River First Nation
Dease River First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Ditidaht First Nation
Ditidaht First Nation

Social Development Worker or Family Care Worker



Doig River First Nation
Doig River First Nation
First Nation Social Worker


Douglas First Nation
Douglas First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Ehattesaht First Nation
Ehattesaht First Nation
First Nation Manager



Esketemc First Nation

(aka Alkali Lake First Nation)

Esketemc First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Esquimalt First Nation
Esquimalt First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Fort Nelson First Nation
Fort Nelson First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent




Fountain First Nation

(aka Xaxli'p Nation)

Fountain First Nation
Social Development Administrator


Gitanmaax First Nation
Gitanmaax First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Gitanyow First Nation
Gitanyow First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Gitsegukla First Nation
Gitsegukla First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Gitwangak First Nation
Gitwangak First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Glen Vowell First Nation
Glen Vowell First Nation

First Nation Social Development Officer



Gwa'sala-Nakwaxda'xw First Nation
Gwa'sala-Nakwaxda'xw First Nation
First Nation Social Worker



Gwawaenuk First Nation

(aka Kwa-Wa-Aineuk First Nation)

Gwawaenuk First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Hagwilget Village First Nation
Hagwilget Village First Nation
First Nation Social Worker


Halalt First Nation
Halalt First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Halfway River First Nation
Halfway River First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Hartley Bay First Nation
Hartley Bay First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Heiltsuk First Nation
Heiltsuk First Nation

First Nation Social Worker or Executive Director



Hesquiaht First Nation
Hesquiaht First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



High Bar First Nation
High Bar First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Homalco First Nation
Homalco First Nation
First Nation Social Worker



Hupa¢asath First Nation

(aka Opetchesaht First Nation)

Hupa¢asath First Nation
First Nation Office Manager


Iskut First Nation
Iskut First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Kamloops First Nation
Kamloops First Nation
First Nation Social Worker


Kanaka Bar First Nation
Kanaka Bar First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Katzie First Nation
Katzie First Nation

First Nation Social Development Worker



Kispiox First Nation
Kispiox First Nation
First Nation Social Worker


Kitamaat Village First Nation
Kitamaat Village First Nation

First Nation Social Development Administrator



Kitasoo First Nation
Kitasoo First Nation

First Nation Social Development Worker



Kitkatla First Nation
Kitkatla First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Kitselas First Nation
Kitselas First Nation

First Nation Social Development Officer



Kitsumkalum First Nation
Kitsumkalum First Nation
First Nation Social Worker


Klahoose First Nation
Klahoose First Nation

First Nation Social Development Worker



Kluskus First Nation
Kluskus First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent




Kwadacha First Nation

(aka Fort Ware First Nation)

Kwadacha First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Kwakiutl First Nation
Kwakiutl First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Kwantlen First Nation
Kwantlen First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Kwaw-Kwaw-Apilt First Nation
Kwaw-Kwaw-Apilt First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Kwiakah First Nation
Kwiakah First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent




Kwicksutaineuk-Ah-Kwaw-Ah-Mish First Nation


Kwicksutaineuk-Ah-Kwaw-Ah-Mish First Nation


First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent




Kwikwetlem First Nation

(aka Coquitlam First Nation)

Kwikwetlem First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Lake Babine First Nation
Lake Babine First Nation
Lake Babine Nation Chief


Lake Cowichan First Nation
Lake Cowichan First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent




Lax-Kw'
a
laams First Nation


Lax-Kw'
a
laams First Nation

First Nation Administrator


Leq'a:mel First Nation
Leq'a:mel First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent




Lheidli T'enneh First Nation

(aka Lheit-Lit'en First Nation)

Lheidli T'enneh First Nation

First Nation Social Development Administrator



Little Shuswap Lake First Nation
Little Shuswap Lake First Nation
First Nation Social Worker


Lower Kootenay First Nation
Lower Kootenay First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Lower Nicola First Nation
Lower Nicola First Nation
First Nation Administrator


Lower Similkameen First Nation
Lower Similkameen First Nation
First Nation Social Worker


Lyackson First Nation
Lyackson First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Lytton First Nation
Lytton First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Malahat First Nation
Malahat First Nation

First Nation  Manager, Social Development Officer or
Equivalent




Mamalilikulla First Nation

(aka Mamaleleqala Qwe'Qwa'Sot'Enox First Nation)

Mamalilikulla First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Matsqui First Nation
Matsqui First Nation
Xyolhemeylh Portfolio Holder


McLeod Lake First Nation
McLeod Lake First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Metlakatla First Nation
Metlakatla First Nation
First Nation Social Worker


Moricetown First Nation
Moricetown First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Mount Currie First Nation
Mount Currie First Nation

First Nation Social Development Manager



Mowachaht/Muchalaht First Nation
Mowachaht/Muchalaht First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Musqueam First Nation
Musqueam First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent




N'Quatqua First Nation

(aka Anderson Lake First Nation)

N'Quatqua First Nation
First Nation Social Worker


Nadleh Whut'en First Nation
Nadleh Whut'en First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or
Equivalent



Nak'azdli First Nation
Nak'azdli First Nation

First Nation Social Development Director, Family Care Worker or
Senior Manager




'N
a
mgis First Nation


'N
a
mgis First Nation


First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Nanoose First Nation
Nanoose First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Nazko First Nation
Nazko First Nation
First Nation Counsellor


Nee-Tahi-Buhn First Nation
Nee-Tahi-Buhn First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Neskonlith First Nation
Neskonlith First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



New Westminster First Nation
New Westminster First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Nicomen First Nation
Nicomen First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Nooaitch First Nation
Nooaitch First Nation

First Nation Social Development Coordinator



North Thompson First Nation
North Thompson First Nation

First Nation Social Worker or First Nation Manager



Nuchatlaht First Nation
Nuchatlaht First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Nuxalk First Nation
Nuxalk First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Okanagan First Nation
Okanagan First Nation

First Nation Social Services Supervisor



Old Massett Village First Nation
Old Massett Village First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Oregon Jack Creek First Nation
Oregon Jack Creek First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Osoyoos First Nation
Osoyoos First Nation

First Nation Social Services Manager



Oweekeno First Nation
Oweekeno First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Pacheedaht First Nation
Pacheedaht First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Pauquachin First Nation
Pauquachin First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Pavilion First Nation
Pavilion First Nation

First Nation Social Development Worker



Penelakut First Nation
Penelakut First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Penticton First Nation
Penticton First Nation

First Nation Manager or First Nation Social Worker



Peters First Nation
Peters First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Popkum First Nation
Popkum First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent




Prophet River First Nation

(aka Dene Tsaa Tse K'nai First Nation)

Prophet River First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Qualicum First Nation
Qualicum First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Quatsino First Nation
Quatsino First Nation
First Nation Social Worker


Red Bluff First Nation
Red Bluff First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent




Saik'uz First Nation

(aka Stoney Creek First Nation)

Saik'uz First Nation
First Nation Family Care Worker


Samahquam First Nation
Samahquam First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Saulteau First Nation
Saulteau First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Scowlitz First Nation
Scowlitz First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Seabird Island First Nation
Seabird Island First Nation

First Nation Manager or Community Health Representative



Sechelt First Nation
Sechelt First Nation
First Nation Chief or Councillor


Semiahmoo First Nation
Semiahmoo First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Seton Lake First Nation
Seton Lake First Nation

First Nation Social Development Worker



Shackan First Nation
Shackan First Nation

First Nation Social Development Coordinator



Shuswap First Nation
Shuswap First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent




Shxw'ow'hamel First Nation

(aka Ohamil First Nation)

Shxw'ow'hamel First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Siska First Nation
Siska First Nation

First Nation Manager or First Nation Social Worker



Skatin First Nation
Skatin First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Skawahlook First Nation
Skawahlook First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Skeetchestn First Nation
Skeetchestn First Nation
First Nation Social Worker


Skidegate First Nation
Skidegate First Nation
First Nation Social Worker


Skin Tyee First Nation
Skin Tyee First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Skowkale First Nation
Skowkale First Nation
First Nation Chief


Skuppah First Nation
Skuppah First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Skwah First Nation
Skwah First Nation

Child and Family Services Portfolio First Nation Councillor



Skway First Nation
Skway First Nation

First Nation Family Support Worker




Snuneymuxw First Nation

(aka Nanaimo First Nation)

Snuneymuxw First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Soda Creek First Nation
Soda Creek First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Songhees First Nation
Songhees First Nation
First Nation Social Worker


Soowahlie First Nation
Soowahlie First Nation
First Nation Councillor


Spallumcheen First Nation
Spallumcheen First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Spuzzum First Nation
Spuzzum First Nation
First Nation Manager


Squamish Nation
Squamish Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Squiala First Nation
Squiala First Nation
First Nation Chief


St. Mary's First Nation
St. Mary's First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Stella'ten First Nation
Stella'ten First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Stone First Nation
Stone First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or
Equivalent



Sumas First Nation
Sumas First Nation

First Nation Community Development Coordinator or Education
Coordinator



T'Sou-ke First Nation
T'Sou-ke First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or
Equivalent




T'it'q'et First Nation

(aka Lillooet First Nation)

T'it'q'et First Nation
First Nation Social Worker


Tahltan First Nation
Tahltan First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or
Equivalent



Takla Lake First Nation
Takla Lake First Nation
First Nation Family Care Worker


Taku River Tlingit First Nation
Taku River Tlingit First Nation
Social Program Manager


Tl'azt'en First Nation
Tl'azt'en First Nation
First Nation Family Care Worker



Tl'etinqox-T'in First Nation

(aka Anaham First Nation)

Tl'etinqox-T'in First Nation
First Nation Child Care Worker


Tla-o-qui-aht First Nation
Tla-o-qui-aht First Nation

First Nation Family Care Worker or Social Development Worker



Tlatlasikwala First Nation
Tlatlasikwala First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent




Tlowitsis First Nation

(aka Tlowitsis — Mumtagila)

Tlowitsis First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Tobacco Plains First Nation
Tobacco Plains First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Toosey First Nation
Toosey First Nation
First Nation Social Worker


Tsartlip First Nation
Tsartlip First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Tsawataineuk First Nation
Tsawataineuk First Nation

First Nation Social Development Worker or Drug and Alcohol
Counsellor



Tsawout First Nation
Tsawout First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or
Equivalent



Tsay Keh Dene First Nation
Tsay Keh Dene First Nation
First Nation Social Worker


Tseshaht First Nation
Tseshaht First Nation

First Nation Chief Executive Officer, Family Support Worker, or
Social Development Worker



Tseycum First Nation
Tseycum First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or
Equivalent



Ts'kw'aylaxw First Nation
Ts'kw'aylaxw First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or Equivalent



Tzeachten First Nation
Tzeachten First Nation
First Nation Manager


Ulkatcho First Nation
Ulkatcho First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or
Equivalent



Union Bar First Nation
Union Bar First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or
Equivalent



Upper Nicola First Nation
Upper Nicola First Nation
First Nation Social Worker


Upper Similkameen First Nation
Upper Similkameen First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or
Equivalent



West Moberly First Nation
West Moberly First Nation

First Nation Social Development Director



Westbank First Nation
Westbank First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or
Equivalent




Wet'suwet'en First Nation

(aka Broman Lake First Nation)

Wet'suwet'en First Nation

First Nation Social Development Administrator




Whispering Pines/Clinton First Nation


Whispering Pines/Clinton First Nation


First Nation Social Service Worker



Williams Lake First Nation
Williams Lake First Nation
First Nation Social Worker



Xeni Gwet'in First Nation

(aka Nemaiah Valley First Nation)

Xeni Gwet'in First Nation
First Nation Social Worker


Yakweakwioose First Nation
Yakweakwioose First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or
Equivalent



Yale First Nation
Yale First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or
Equivalent



Yekooche First Nation
Yekooche First Nation

First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or
Equivalent




First Nations not listed

[section 12 (1) (b)]



First Nation Manager, Social Development Officer or
Equivalent Position






Schedule 1A


[en. B.C. Reg. 331/2002, App. 2, s. 5; am. B.C. Reg. 17/2019, App., s.
12.]


Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government


(
section 12 (2)
)





Column 1



Director of Programs and Services





Schedule 1B


[en. B.C. Reg. 36/2009, s. 5; am. B.C. Regs. 53/2011, Sch. 2, s. 2;
15/2016, Sch. 2, s. 2; 17/2019, App., s. 13.]






Column 1

Treaty First Nation




Column 2

Designated Representative




Huu-ay-aht First Nations
Director of Human Services


Ka:'yu:'k't'h'/Che:k'tles7et'h' First Nations
Director of Community Services


Tla'amin Nation
Chief Administrative Officer


Toquaht Nation
Director of Community Services


Tsawwassen First Nation
Health and Social Services Manager


Uchuklesaht Tribe
Director of Human Services


Ucluelet First Nation
Director of Community Services





Schedule 2


[en. B.C. Reg. 331/2002, App. 2, s. 5; am. B.C. Regs. 350/2005, Sch. 4,
s. 12; 17/2019, App., s. 14.]





Column 1


Indigenous

Community



Column 2


Indigenous

Organization



Column 3

Designated Representative




The Chetwynd and Region

Indigenous Community

Tansi Friendship Centre

Executive Director of Tansi Friendship Centre




The Courtenay and Region

Indigenous Community

Wachiay Friendship Centre Society

Director, Wachiay Friendship Centre Society




The Dawson Creek and

Region Indigenous Community


Dawson Creek Aboriginal Resources Society

OR

Nawican Friendship Centre


Program Manager of Dawson Creek

Aboriginal Resources Society

OR

Executive Director of Nawican Friendship Centre




The Duncan and Region

Indigenous Community


Hi'ye'yu Lelum House of Friendship


Executive Director of Hi'ye'yu Lelum House of Friendship




The Fort Nelson and Region

Indigenous Community


Fort Nelson/Liard Friendship Society


Executive Director of Fort Nelson/Liard Friendship Society




The Fort St. John and Region

Indigenous Community

Keeginaw Friendship Centre

Legal Information Worker of Keeginaw Friendship Centre




The Kamloops and Region

Indigenous Community

Interior Indian Friendship Centre

Executive Director of Interior Indian Friendship Centre




The Kelowna and Region

Indigenous Community


Central Okanagan Friendship Centre Society


Executive Director of Central Okanagan Friendship Centre Society




The Lillooet and Region

Indigenous Community


Lillooet Friendship Centre Society


Executive Director of Lillooet Friendship Centre Society




The Merritt and Region

Indigenous Community

Conayt Friendship Centre Society

Executive Director of Conayt Friendship Society




The Mission and Region

Indigenous Community

Mission Indian Friendship Centre

Family Support Worker of Mission Indian Friendship Centre




The Nanaimo and Region

Indigenous Community

Tillicum Haus Society

Executive Director of Tillicum Haus Society




The Port Alberni and Region

Indigenous Community

Port Alberni Friendship Centre

Executive Director of Port Alberni Friendship Centre




The Prince George and

Region Indigenous Community

Prince George Friendship Centre

Executive Director of Prince George Friendship Centre




The Prince Rupert and Region

Indigenous Community


Friendship House Association of Prince Rupert


Executive Director of Friendship House Association of Prince
Rupert




The Quesnel and Region

Indigenous Community

Quesnel Tillicum Society

Assistant Executive Director and Referral Worker or

First Nation Family Support Worker of Quesnel Tillicum Society




The Smithers and Region

Indigenous Community


Dzel K'ant Indian Friendship Centre Society


Executive Director of Dze K'ant Indian Friendship Centre Society




The Terrace and Region

Indigenous Community

Kermode Friendship Centre

Executive Director of Kermode Friendship Centre




The Vancouver and Region

Indigenous Community


Vancouver Aboriginal

Friendship Centre Society


Executive Director of Vancouver Aboriginal Friendship Centre
Society




The Vernon and Region

Indigenous Community

First Nations Friendship Centre

Executive Director of First Nation Friendship Centre




The Victoria and Region

Indigenous Community

Victoria Native Friendship Centre

Director of Social Programs, Victoria Native Friendship Centre




The Williams Lake and

Region Indigenous Community

Cariboo Friendship Centre

Executive Director of Cariboo Friendship Centre



Metis Community

Metis Commission for Children and Family Services


Executive Director of Metis Commission for Children and Family
Services




The Kelly Lake

Indigenous Community located

south-east of Pouce Coupe

Kelly Lake First Nations Society

Chief of Kelly Lake First Nation Society




Liard River Reserve # 3

located at Lower Post

Liard River Reserve # 3
First Nation Manager


Eastern Arctic Inuit Community

Nunavut Social Development Council


Chairperson of Social Development Council, Nunavut Social
Development Council



Western Arctic Inuit Community
Inuvialuit Regional Corporation

Registrar of Enrolment, Inuvialuit Regional Corporation






Schedule 3


[am. B.C Regs. 171/98, ss. 4 to 6; 400/99, ss. 9 to 11; 350/2005, Sch.
4, ss. 13 to 16; 53/2011, Sch. 2, ss. 3 and 4; 82/2014, Sch. s. 3;
187/2018, App., s. 2; 17/2019, App., s. 1; 149/2019.]



Form A












Form B









Form C

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 400/99, s. 11.]


Forms D and E

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 350/2006, Sch. 4, s. 15.]


Form F








[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Child, Family and Community Service Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 46, s. 103.]



