







B.C. Reg. 204/2011

O.C. 587/2011


Deposited December 2, 2011

effective July 1, 2012





This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Financial Institutions Act


Classes of Insurance Regulation

[Last amended August 1, 2021 by B.C. Reg. 208/2021]





Definitions




1

(1)


In this regulation:



"accident and sickness insurance"

means insurance




(a)

against loss resulting from bodily injury to, or the death of, a
person caused by an accident,




(b)

under which an insurer undertakes to pay a sum or sums of insurance
money in the event of bodily injury to, or the death of, a person
caused by an accident,




(c)

against loss resulting from the sickness or disability of a person not
caused by an accident, but does not include insurance for losses
resulting from the death of a person caused by sickness,




(d)

under which an insurer undertakes to pay a sum or sums of insurance
money in the event of the sickness or disability of a person not
caused by an accident, or




(e)

under which an insurer undertakes to pay a sum of insurance money in
respect of the health care, including dental care and preventative
care, of a person;



"aircraft insurance"

means insurance against




(a)

liability arising out of bodily injury to, or the death of, a person,
or the loss of, or damage to, property, caused by an aircraft or the
use of an aircraft, or




(b)

the loss of, the loss of use of, or damage to, an aircraft;



"automobile insurance"

means insurance




(a)

against liability arising out of bodily injury to, or the death of, a
person, or the loss of, or damage to, property, caused by an
automobile or the use or operation of an automobile,




(b)

against the loss of, the loss of use of, or damage to, an automobile,
or




(c)

that falls within paragraph (a) or (b) of the definition of "accident
and sickness insurance", if




(i)

the accident is caused by an automobile or the use or operation of an
automobile, whether or not liability exists in respect of the
accident, and




(ii)

the policy includes insurance against liability arising out of bodily
injury to, or the death of, a person caused by an automobile or the
use or operation of an automobile;



"boiler and machinery insurance"

means insurance against liability arising out of bodily injury to, or
the death of, a person, or the loss of, or damage to, property, or
against the loss of, or damage to, property, caused by




(a)

the explosion or rupture of, or accident to, pressure vessels of any
kind or pipes, engines and machinery connected to or operated by those
pressure vessels, or




(b)

a breakdown of machinery;



"credit insurance"

means insurance against loss to a creditor if the loss is the result
of the insolvency or default of the creditor's debtor;



"credit protection insurance"

means insurance under which an insurer undertakes to pay off credit
balances or debts of an individual, in whole or in part, in the event
of an impairment or potential impairment in the individual's income or
ability to earn an income;



"fidelity insurance"

means insurance




(a)

against loss caused by theft, the abuse of trust or the unfaithful
performance of duties, by a person in a position of trust, and




(b)

under which an insurer undertakes to guarantee the proper fulfillment
of the duties of an office;



"hail insurance"

means insurance against the loss of, or damage to, crops in the field
caused by hail;



"home warranty insurance"

means insurance covering defects in the construction of a new home or
renovation, and consequential losses or costs incurred by the owner;



"legal expenses insurance"

means insurance against costs incurred for legal services specified in
the policy, including any retainer and fees incurred for the services,
and other costs incurred in respect of the provision of the services;



"liability insurance"

means insurance, other than insurance that falls within another class
of insurance,




(a)

against liability arising out of bodily injury to, or the disability
or death of, a person, including an employee,




(b)

against liability arising out of the loss of, or damage to, property,
or




(c)

if the policy includes the insurance described in paragraph (a),
against expenses arising out of bodily injury to a person other than
the insured or a member of the insured's family, whether or not
liability exists;



"life insurance"

means insurance that is payable




(a)

on the death of the person whose life is insured,




(b)

on the happening of an event or contingency dependent on human life,




(c)

at a fixed or determinable future time, or




(d)

for a term dependent on human life,


including, without limiting paragraphs (a) to (d), insurance under
which the insurer




(e)

undertakes to pay an additional sum of insurance money in the event of
the death by accident of the person whose life is insured,




(f)

undertakes to pay a sum of insurance money or to provide other
benefits in the event that the person whose life is insured becomes
disabled as a result of bodily injury or disease, or




(g)

undertakes to provide an annuity, or what would be an annuity except
that the periodic payments may be unequal in amount, for a term
dependent solely or partly on a human life;



"marine insurance"

means insurance against




(a)

liability arising out of




(i)

bodily injury to, or the death of, a person, or




(ii)

the loss of, or damage to, property, or




(b)

the loss of, or damage, to property,


occurring during a voyage or marine adventure, at sea or on an inland
waterway, or during a delay or a transit, other than by water, that is
incidental to a voyage or marine adventure, at sea or on an inland
waterway;



"mortgage insurance"

means insurance against loss caused by default on the part of a
borrower under a loan secured by a mortgage or charge on, or other
security interest in, real property;



"other approved products insurance"

means all types of insurance not otherwise included in another class
of insurance;



"product warranty insurance"

means insurance, not being insurance included in or incidental to any
other class of insurance, under which the insurer undertakes, in the
event of loss of, or damage to, personal property, other than a motor
vehicle, to pay, for a specified period after it is purchased, the
cost of repairing or replacing the personal property;



"property insurance"

means insurance against the loss of, or damage to, property, and
includes insurance against loss caused by forgery;



"surety insurance"

means insurance under which an insurer undertakes




(a)

to guarantee the due performance of a contract or undertaking, or




(b)

to pay a penalty or indemnity for any default in the performance of a
contract or undertaking;



"title insurance"

means insurance against loss or damage caused by




(a)

the existence of a mortgage, charge, lien, encumbrance, servitude or
any other restriction on real property,




(b)

the existence of a mortgage, charge, lien, pledge, encumbrance or any
other restriction on personal property,




(c)

a defect in any document that evidences the creation of any
restriction referred to in paragraph (a) or (b),




(d)

a defect in the title to real or personal property, or




(e)

any other matter affecting the title to real or personal property or
affecting the right to the use and enjoyment of real or personal
property;



"vehicle warranty insurance"

means insurance, not being insurance included in or incidental to
automobile insurance, under which the insurer undertakes, in the event
of loss of, or damage to, a motor vehicle arising from mechanical
failure, to pay, for a specified period after the motor vehicle is
purchased,




(a)

the cost of repairing or replacing the motor vehicle,




(b)

towing fees,




(c)

the cost of renting a substitute motor vehicle, or




(d)

the cost of accommodation required because of the mechanical failure.




(2)

For the purposes of the "other approved products insurance" class of
insurance, the superintendent may specify in the business
authorization of a particular insurer the types of insurance business
the insurer may carry on within that class.

[am. B.C. Regs. 219/2019; 208/2021, App. 5, s. 1.]





Classes of insurance




2


The following classes of insurance are established for the purposes of
the

Financial Institutions Act

, except section 174 (2) (b):




(a)

accident and sickness insurance;




(b)

aircraft insurance;




(c)

automobile insurance;




(d)

boiler and machinery insurance;




(e)

credit insurance;




(f)

credit protection insurance;




(g)

fidelity insurance;




(h)

hail insurance;




(i)

home warranty insurance;




(j)

legal expenses insurance;




(k)

liability insurance;




(l)

life insurance;




(m)

marine insurance;




(n)

mortgage insurance;




(o)

other approved products insurance;




(p)

product warranty insurance;




(q)

property insurance;




(r)

surety insurance;




(s)

title insurance;




(t)

vehicle warranty insurance.






Transition




3


Despite the repeal of




(a)

the definition of "life insurance" in section 1 of the

Financial Institutions Act

, and




(b)

the Insurance Classes Regulation, B.C. Reg. 337/90,


that definition and the classes of insurance as defined in the
Insurance Classes Regulation continue to apply in respect of a
business authorization described in section 59 (4) of the

Financial Institutions Act

until January 1, 2013.



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Financial Institutions Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 141, s. 289.]



