







B.C. Reg. 197/97

O.C. 694/97


Deposited June 18, 1997






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to Point in Time




Forest Act


Innovative Forestry Practices Regulation


[includes amendments up to B.C. Reg. 133/2011, July 21, 2011]






Definitions




1


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the

Forest Act

;



"forest practice"

has the same meaning as in the

Forest Practices Code of British Columbia Act

;



"forestry plan"

means a forestry plan required to be submitted for approval under
section 59.1 (5) of the Act;



"free-growing stand"

has the same meaning as in the

Forest Practices Code of British Columbia Act

;


"holder"
means a person that presents a written proposal for an agreement under
section 59.1 (2) (b) of the Act;



"permanent access structure"

has the same meaning as in the

Forest Practices Code of British Columbia Act

;



"standard practices"

means the forest practices routinely applied by licensees in the
timber supply area when the forestry plan is submitted or at any other
time determined by the minister;



"stocking requirements"

has the same meaning as in section 1 (1) of the Operational and Site
Planning Regulation, B.C. Reg. 107/98.


[am. B.C. Regs. 292/2003, Sch. E, s. 1; 133/2011, Sch. s. 16.]






Authorized innovative forestry practices and activities




2


The innovative forestry practices and other activities that may be the
subject of an agreement under section 59.1 (1) of the Act are the
following:




(a)

the implementation of harvesting methods or silvicultural systems that
may




(i)

increase the total amount of timber available to harvest in the timber
supply area over the amount available under standard practices, or




(ii)

reduce the loss of productivity associated with permanent access
structures from the loss of productivity under standard practices for
similar terrain and timber types in the timber supply area;




(b)

activities that result in the establishment of free-growing stands on




(i)

previously unforested areas,




(ii)

areas that are below stocking requirements and are not part of the
holder's free-growing responsibilities under sections 69.1 (3) and 70
(3) of the

Forest Practices Code of British Columbia Act

, or




(iii)

areas that




(A)

have stands of timber with repressed growth or that contain brush or
species that are not commercially valuable, and




(B)

are not part of the holder's free-growing responsibilities under
sections 69.1 (3) and 70 (3) of the

Forest Practices Code of British Columbia Act

;




(c)

silviculture treatments on free-growing stands;




(d)

silviculture treatments on sites that are not free growing in order to
produce stands that exceed current growth performance or standards
achieved using standard practices for the timber supply area;




(e)

the collection and analysis of new data, in accordance with the
specifications of the chief forester, to provide a more accurate
representation of the forest composition and its expected rate of
growth compared to the rate existing when the forest plan is submitted
or at any other time determined by the minister;




(f)

activities that will enhance and protect other resource values,
including, but not limited to, water, fisheries, wildlife, biological
diversity, soil productivity and stability, forage production, grazing
and recreation values.


[am. B.C. Regs. 292/2003, Sch. E, s. 2; 133/2011, Sch. s. 17.]






Authorized forms of agreement




3


The holders of the following agreements under section 12 of the Act
may enter into an agreement under section 59.1 of the Act:




(a)

replaceable forest licences;




(b)

replaceable timber sale licences with an allowable annual cut greater
than 10 000 cubic metres.






Maximum term of agreements




4


The maximum term of an agreement under section 59.1 (1) of the Act is
20 years.

[en. B.C. Reg. 310/2010, s. (b).]


[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Forest Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 157, sections 59.1 and 151]



