







B.C. Reg. 52/2015

O.C. 132/2015


Deposited March 30, 2015

effective October 1, 2015






This consolidation is current to December 31, 2023.

See the

Cumulative B.C. Regulations Bulletin 2023


for amendments effective after December 31, 2023.





Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Laboratory Services Act


Laboratory Services Regulation

[Last amended June 19, 2023 by B.C. Reg. 149/2023]



Part 1 — Interpretation





Definitions




1


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the

Laboratory Services Act

;



"identity number"

means the identity number referred to in section 8 of the Act;



"public laboratory facility"

means the following:




(a)

in respect of a hospital within the meaning of paragraph (a) or (e) of
the definition of "hospital" in section 1 of the

Hospital Insurance Act

, that part of the hospital that provides laboratory services;




(b)

a specimen collection station that is associated with a hospital
referred to in paragraph (a);




(c)

a laboratory that is funded, managed or operated by a regional health
board or a prescribed agency;



"requisition form"

means the form, whether paper or electronic, on which a request for
benefits from a referring practitioner is made or recorded.

[am. B.C. Reg. 225/2016, Sch. 3, s. 1.]





Financial interests in laboratory facilities




2

(1)


For the purposes of this regulation, a person has a material financial
interest in a corporation or a laboratory facility if the person holds
an interest




(a)

in the corporation or laboratory facility as a sole proprietor or
partner, or




(b)

of more than 10% of the shares in the corporation or laboratory
facility.




(2)

For the purposes of this regulation, a person has an indirect
financial interest in a laboratory facility if any of the following
circumstances exist:




(a)

the person, or a person acting on behalf of the person, has a material
financial interest in a corporation that has a material financial
interest in the laboratory facility;




(b)

the person is a corporate partner of another person that has a
material financial interest in the laboratory facility;




(c)

the person is a director or officer of a person or body that has a
material financial interest in the laboratory facility;




(d)

the person is an employee of a person or body referred to in paragraph
(c);




(e)

the person has a near relative who has a material financial interest
in the laboratory facility, and the person has reason to be aware of
that interest.




(3)

For the purposes of subsection (2) (e), a person is a near relative of
another person if the person is




(a)

the other person's spouse or a parent of the other person's spouse,




(b)

the other person's child, stepchild or grandchild,




(c)

the other person's parent, stepparent or grandparent,




(d)

the other person's sibling or stepsibling, or




(e)

the spouse of any of the persons listed in paragraphs (a) to (d).




Part 2 — Referring Practitioners





Referring practitioners




3

(1)


A health care practitioner is prescribed as a referring practitioner
for the purposes of the Act if the health care practitioner is
enrolled as a practitioner under section 13 of the

Medicare Protection Act

and is a member of at least one of the following classes:




(a)

a registrant of the British Columbia College of Oral Health
Professionals who is authorized to use the title "dentist", "dental
surgeon", "surgeon" or "doctor";




(b)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 206/2020, s. 12 (a).]




(c)

a registrant of the College of Physicians and Surgeons of British
Columbia who is authorized to use the title "podiatrist", "podiatric
surgeon", "surgeon" or "doctor";




(d)

a registrant of the British Columbia College of Nurses and Midwives
who is authorized to use the title "midwife".




(2)

A health care practitioner is prescribed as a referring practitioner
for the purposes of the Act if the health care practitioner is a
registrant of the British Columbia College of Nurses and Midwives who




(a)

is authorized to use the title "nurse practitioner", or




(b)

is authorized to use the title "registered nurse" or "registered
psychiatric nurse", and




(i)

is a certified practice registrant within the meaning of the Nurses
(Registered) and Nurse Practitioners Regulation, or




(ii)

makes a request for a beneficiary to receive benefits in relation to
communicable disease prevention and management.




(3)

The minister may establish, by order, schedules in respect of the
benefits that may be requested by one or more classes of referring
practitioners.




(4)

In referring a beneficiary to an approved laboratory facility for the
purposes of receiving benefits, a referring practitioner may request
benefits only in accordance with the schedule established under
subsection (3) for the class to which the referring practitioner
belongs.




(5)

A person is prescribed for the purposes of section 4 (1) (b) (i) of
the Act as a person who may request benefits if the person is, at the
time a laboratory service is requested, authorized in another
jurisdiction of Canada to practise a health profession equivalent to
that of a medical practitioner.


[am. B.C. Regs. 225/2016, Sch. 3, ss. 2 and 3; 152/2018, s. 6;
209/2020, s. 6; 206/2020, s. 12; 208/2022, Sch. 7; 149/2023, Sch. 1,
s. 1.]






Repealed




3.1


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 149/2023, Sch. 1, s. 2.]






Temporary referring practitioners for drug samples




3.2

(1)


A health care practitioner is prescribed as a referring practitioner
for the purposes of the Act if the health care practitioner




(a)

is a registrant of the British Columbia College of Nurses and Midwives
who is authorized




(i)

to use the title "registered nurse" or "registered psychiatric nurse",
and




(ii)

to provide the services referred to in the order of the Provincial
Health Officer described as "Registered Nurse and Registered
Psychiatric Nurse Public Health Pharmacotherapy", made September 16,
2020,




(b)

makes a request for a beneficiary to receive benefits in relation to
ordering diagnostic tests to support the making of a diagnosis of a
problem substance use condition or substance use disorder, and




(c)

made the request referred to in paragraph (b) during the period that




(i)

begins on the date this section comes into effect, and




(ii)

ends on the date on which the order referred to in paragraph (a) (ii)
ceases to have effect.




(2)

Section 3 (3) and (4) applies for the purposes of this section.




(3)

This section is repealed on the date referred to in subsection (1) (c)
(ii).

[en. B.C. Reg. 263/2020, s. 2.]





Repealed




4


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 225/2016, Sch. 3, s. 4.]




Part 3 — Laboratory Facilities





Laboratory medicine physicians




5


For the purposes of the definition of "laboratory medicine physician"
in section 1 of the Act, a medical practitioner must be authorized by
the College of Physicians and Surgeons of British Columbia to practise
in one or more of the following specialties, as recognized by the
Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada:




(a)

general, anatomical or hematological pathology;




(b)

medical biochemistry;




(c)

medical genetics;




(d)

medical microbiology;




(e)

neuropathology.






Prescribed agency




6


For the purposes of the definition of
"prescribed agency"
in section 1 of the Act, the Provincial Health Services Authority is
prescribed.

[en. B.C. Reg. 149/2023, Sch. 1, s. 3.]





Application for approval




7

(1)


An application for approval in respect of a laboratory facility,
including a proposed laboratory facility, may be made




(a)

only by the owner or intended owner of the laboratory facility, and




(b)

no later than 90 days before the date on which the applicant requests
the approval to be effective.




(2)

An application for approval must include all of the following:




(a)

the address or addresses of the laboratory facility;




(b)

the name of the owner of the laboratory facility;




(c)

the name and contact information of the person having responsibility
for the daily operation of the laboratory facility;




(d)

the name and qualifications of each laboratory medicine physician who
will be providing or supervising the provision of benefits through the
laboratory facility;




(e)

the names of all persons who have a material financial interest in the
laboratory facility and, if the persons are shareholders, the
percentage of the shares that they own;




(f)

information about any existing or potential conflict of interest that
the applicant has reason to be aware of in respect of referring
practitioners who may request benefits to be provided through the
laboratory facility;




(g)

a list of all laboratory services that are proposed to be provided
through the laboratory facility;




(h)

a description of the capabilities and capacities of the major
equipment to be used in the laboratory facility;




(i)

the proposed hours of operation of the laboratory facility;




(j)

a list and description of all quality control procedures planned for
the laboratory facility, including quality control programs of a
formal nature.






Criteria for approval




8

(1)


The minister may grant an approval if satisfied of all of the
following:




(a)

there is sufficient need with respect to capability, capacity, quality
of service, cost or other factors to warrant the proposed laboratory
services, including that needs are not being met by existing approved
laboratory facilities that




(i)

provide the proposed laboratory services, and




(ii)

are located within the catchment area of the laboratory facility that
is the subject of the application;




(b)

the quality of laboratory services will be maintained at a
sufficiently high level;




(c)

no existing or potential conflicts of interest are identified under
section 7 (2) (f)
[application for approval]
;




(d)

it would be in the public interest to grant the approval.




(2)

Subsection (1) (c) does not apply if the minister determines that the
proposed laboratory services cannot reasonably be provided by another
approved laboratory facility for which an existing or potential
conflict of interest does not exist.






Granting approval




9

(1)


An approval must identify at least the following information:




(a)

the address or addresses of the approved laboratory facility;




(b)

the laboratory services to be provided through the approved laboratory
facility;




(c)

the persons having a material financial interest in the approved
laboratory facility;




(d)

the capability or capacity of the approved laboratory facility to
provide laboratory services;




(e)

the limits and conditions, if any, attached to the approval by the
minister.




(2)

The term of an approval begins and ends on the dates specified by the
minister in the approval.




(3)

An approval is void, and laboratory services provided during the term
of the approval are not benefits, if the applicant for the approval




(a)

provided information with the application that the applicant knew or
ought to have known to be false or misleading, or




(b)

failed to provide information with the application that the applicant
knew or ought to have known was relevant to the consideration of the
application by the minister.






Changes to approval




10

(1)


An operator of a laboratory facility that is subject to an approval
must notify the minister in writing at least 30 days before a change
to any of the following:




(a)

the laboratory medicine physicians who will be providing or
supervising the provision of benefits through the laboratory facility;




(b)

the contact information of the person having responsibility for the
daily operation of the laboratory facility;




(c)

the hours of operation of the laboratory facility.




(2)

An operator of a laboratory facility that is subject to an approval
must seek a new approval at least 30 days before a change to any of
the things described in section 9 (1) (a) or (c)
[granting approval]
.




(3)

An operator of a laboratory facility that is subject to an approval
must seek an amendment to the approval at least 30 days before




(a)

a change to any of the things described in section 9 (1) (b) or (e),




(b)

a significant change to any of the things described in section 9 (1)
(d), or




(c)

the term of the approval expires, if the change is to extend the term
of the approval.




(4)

This section does not apply in respect of a change that




(a)

results from the exercise by the minister of a power under the Act, or




(b)

has been agreed to previously by the minister as a condition of an
approval.




(5)

Despite subsection (1), the minister may waive the 30-day notice
requirement under that subsection if the minister is of the opinion
that the operator could not reasonably comply with that requirement.






Criteria for agreements




11


The minister may enter into a laboratory services agreement if
satisfied of all of the following:




(a)

there is sufficient need with respect to capability, capacity, quality
of service, cost or other factors to warrant the proposed laboratory
services;




(b)

the quality of laboratory services will be maintained at a
sufficiently high level;




(c)

the agreement, if implemented according to the terms of that
agreement, will support the sustainability of the health care system;




(d)

it would be in the public interest to enter into the agreement.






Operational requirements




12

(1)


An operator of an approved laboratory facility must ensure that all of
the following are maintained to the satisfaction of the minister:




(a)

the number of skilled and qualified personnel employed by the approved
laboratory facility;




(b)

the level of supervision provided by laboratory medicine physicians
who are supervising the provision of benefits through the approved
laboratory facility;




(c)

the laboratory services provided through the approved laboratory
facility;




(d)

the capability or capacity of the approved laboratory facility to
provide laboratory services;




(e)

the standards of testing and analysis used in the approved laboratory
facility.




(2)

Persons who provide benefits through an approved laboratory facility
must consider all relevant guidelines established by the minister.




(3)

An operator of an approved laboratory facility must not give to a
referring practitioner a requisition form other than one made by the
minister under section 36 (1) of the Act.




(4)

An operator of an approved laboratory facility must ensure that
benefits are not provided in respect of a beneficiary on the request
of a referring practitioner who, directly or indirectly, would receive
financial profit or a material benefit as a result unless the approved
laboratory facility's approval authorizes the acceptance of requests
from that particular referring practitioner.






Clinical record-keeping requirements




13

(1)


An operator of an approved laboratory facility must keep, in
accordance with this section, a clinical record for each benefit
provided through the approved laboratory facility.




(2)

A clinical record must include at least the following:




(a)

the names of both the beneficiary and the referring practitioner;




(b)

the beneficiary's identity number;




(c)

the referring practitioner's practitioner number;




(d)

a description of the injury, disease or illness, or the diagnosis,
that gave rise to the request for the benefit to be provided;




(e)

each specific laboratory service requested by the referring
practitioner;




(f)

the requisition form;




(g)

the date on which, and the location at which, relevant specimens were
collected from the beneficiary;




(h)

each specific laboratory service provided;




(i)

if a laboratory service was provided but was not requested by a
referring practitioner, the name of the laboratory medicine physician
who authorized the non-requested service;




(j)

the results and diagnostic interpretations of each laboratory service
provided.




(3)

For the purposes of subsection (2) (f), the requisition form must be
one of the following:




(a)

the original requisition form;




(b)

a copy or electronic reproduction of the original requisition form;




(c)

a record of a verbal request made by a referring practitioner, showing
the name of the person who recorded the request and the information
that would have been required had a requisition form been completed by
the referring practitioner.




(4)

Despite subsection (2) (a) and (b), the clinical record must not
include the name or identity number of a beneficiary who has




(a)

been provided a service in relation to voluntary testing for human
immunodeficiency virus, and




(b)

requested anonymity for the purposes of a report made under the

Public Health Act

by a medical practitioner in respect of the person's infection with or
exposure to human immunodeficiency virus.






General record-keeping requirements




14

(1)


An operator of an approved laboratory facility must keep the financial
records, including the books, accounts and financial transactions, of
the approved laboratory facility in the form required by the minister.




(2)

An operator of an approved laboratory facility must keep all of the
following in a readily retrievable manner:




(a)

the clinical records referred to in section 13
[clinical record-keeping requirements]
,




(b)

the financial records referred to in subsection (1) of this section,
and




(c)

records of internal protocols and results of internal reviews in
relation to quality assurance and adverse events.




(3)

An operator of an approved laboratory facility must keep the records
referred to in this section for at least 6 years unless




(a)

the minister agrees in writing to a shorter period, or




(b)

an audit or investigation is in process at the end of the 6-year
period, in which case the records must be kept until the audit or
investigation is complete.




Part 4 — Requesting and Receiving Benefits





Services excluded from being benefits




15

(1)


A service is not a laboratory service that is a benefit for the
purposes of the Act if the person receiving the service is entitled to
have the service paid for on the person's behalf, or to be reimbursed
for the cost of the service, under any of the following Acts:




(a)


Insurance (Vehicle) Act

;




(b)


Workers Compensation Act

.




(2)

A service is not a laboratory service that is a benefit for the
purposes of the Act if the person receiving the service is entitled to
have the service paid for on the person's behalf, or to be reimbursed
for the cost of the service, under any of the following Acts of
Canada:




(a)


Aeronautics Act

;




(b)



Canadian Forces Members and Veterans Re-establishment and
Compensation Act


;




(c)


Civilian War-related Benefits Act

;




(d)


Corrections and Conditional Release Act

;




(e)


Department of Veterans Affairs Act

;




(f)


Government Employees Compensation Act

;




(g)


Merchant Seamen Compensation Act

;




(h)


National Defence Act

;




(i)


Pension Act

;




(j)


Royal Canadian Mounted Police Pension Continuation Act

;




(k)


Royal Canadian Mounted Police Superannuation Act

.






Electronic requests for benefits




16


A referring practitioner may make a request for benefits by submitting
a requisition form to an approved laboratory facility electronically
only if submitted in the manner required by the minister.






Prohibition on referrals




17


A referring practitioner must not refer a beneficiary, for the
purposes of receiving a benefit, to an approved laboratory facility in
which the referring practitioner has a material or indirect financial
interest unless there is no public laboratory facility that




(a)

has the same catchment area as the approved laboratory facility, and




(b)

provides the benefit.






Duty to verify enrolment




18

(1)


Before providing benefits to a person, an operator must take
reasonable steps to verify whether the person is or is not a
beneficiary, including by doing all of the following:




(a)

requiring the person to provide, in accordance with subsection (2),
information and documentation respecting the person's identity;




(b)

disclosing the information collected under paragraph (a) to the
commission;




(c)

obtaining confirmation from the commission as to whether the person is
or is not a beneficiary.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1) (a), a person must provide




(a)

the person's services card or, before February 10, 2018, the person's
CareCard, as those terms are defined in the Medical and Health Care
Services Regulation, B.C. Reg. 426/97,




(b)

the person's identity number, accompanied by




(i)

one piece of identification showing the person's photograph and legal
name, or




(ii)

two pieces of identification showing the person's legal name, or




(c)

if the information or documentation referred to in paragraphs (a) and
(b) is not available, the information necessary to verify whether the
person is or is not a beneficiary, including the person's legal name,
date of birth, address and gender.






Benefits rendered outside British Columbia




18.1


If a beneficiary receives, outside British Columbia, laboratory
services that the minister determines are medically required, the
beneficiary is entitled to payment for the cost of the laboratory
services as follows:




(a)

without the minister's prior approval if the beneficiary resides in
British Columbia and the nearest convenient location for receiving the
laboratory services is outside British Columbia but within Canada;




(b)

with prior approval of the minister if the laboratory services are
elective, non-emergency laboratory services and are provided outside
Canada;




(c)

without the minister's prior approval if




(i)

the laboratory services are provided in respect of emergency services
that are not available in Canada, and




(ii)

the British Columbia Patient Transfer Network operated by British
Columbia Emergency Health Services coordinates the transfer of the
beneficiary outside Canada for the purpose of receiving the emergency
services.

[en. B.C. Reg. 229/2017, Sch.]





Misuse of identity numbers




19


The following persons are prescribed as persons who must make a report
under section 8 of the Act:




(a)

an operator or employee of an approved laboratory facility;




(b)

a person who provides medical, scientific, technical or administrative
services under contract to an approved laboratory facility.




Part 5 — Administrative Matters





Notices




20

(1)


If the minister is required under the Act to give notice to a person,
the minister must give the notice




(a)

in writing, and




(b)

by registered mail to,




(i)

in the case of an operator or a former operator, the address of the
operator's or former operator's approved laboratory facility as
specified under section 9 (1) (a)
[granting approval]
, or




(ii)

in the case of a person other than an operator or a former operator,
the last known address of the person.




(2)

Despite subsection (1) (b), the minister and the intended recipient
may agree in writing that notice may be given in an alternative manner
or to an alternative address.




(3)

A notice sent by registered mail as required under subsection (1) is
deemed to have been received on the date the notice is delivered.






Cancellation of approvals for laboratory system reasons




21


The minister must give at least 90 days' written notice before
cancelling an approval under section 18 of the Act.






Notice and hearings




22

(1)


The minister must give at least 30 days' written notice of the
following before taking an action under any of sections 11 (2), 52
(2), 59 (2) and 61 (2) of the Act:




(a)

the action the minister proposes to take;




(b)

the reason for taking the action;




(c)

the time and manner in which the recipient of the notice may respond
to the proposed action;




(d)

that a failure to respond to a proposed action will result in the
action being taken without further notice or an opportunity to be
heard.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1) (c), responses to proposed actions
may be as follows:




(a)

an operator, a former operator, an employee of an operator or a person
who provided a benefit may respond to a proposed action either




(i)

in writing, by delivering the response to the minister within 30 days
of receiving the notice under subsection (1), or




(ii)

in person and with or without legal counsel, by delivering a written
request to appear in person to the minister within 21 days of
receiving the notice under subsection (1);




(b)

a person other than one referred to in paragraph (a) may respond to a
proposed action in writing, by delivering the response to the minister
within 30 days of receiving the notice under subsection (1).




(3)

A response to a proposed action may do one or more of the following:




(a)

provide reasons why the minister should not take or should delay
taking the proposed action;




(b)

propose that the minister take an alternative action;




(c)

include information, evidence or supporting documentation.




(4)

On considering a response received under subsection (2) or further
information or evidence received under paragraph (b) of this
subsection, the minister may do any of the following:




(a)

determine that the proposed action should not be taken;




(b)

request further information or evidence and, for this purpose, the
minister may delay taking the proposed action;




(c)

without further notice or opportunity to be heard, proceed with the
proposed action or a modification of the proposed action.




(5)

If no response is received under subsection (2) within the time or in
the manner required under that subsection, the recipient of the notice
is deemed to agree with the proposed action and the minister may
proceed without further notice or opportunity to be heard.






Recovery of non-entitled amounts




23

(1)


In addition to the information required under section 22 (1)
[notice and hearings]
of this regulation, the minister must include in a notice given under
section 52 (3) of the Act




(a)

the amount of the non-entitled amount owing,




(b)

the amount of the surcharge owing, and




(c)

information respecting the calculation of interest owing.




(2)

The prescribed surcharge for the purposes of section 52 (2) (b) of the
Act is 5% of the non-entitled amount.






Advisory committees




24


If an advisory committee is established under section 35 of the Act,
Treasury Board Directive 3/11 applies for the purpose of determining




(a)

the remuneration of members, and




(b)

the payment of members' reasonable and necessary travel and
out-of-pocket expenses incurred in carrying out the work of the
committee.



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Laboratory Services Act

, S.B.C. 2014, c. 8, ss. 71, 72 (1), (2) and (3), 74 and 75 (3), (5) and
(6).]



