







B.C. Reg. 67/2009

O.C. 174/2009


Deposited March 6, 2009






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Financial Administration Act


Logging Tax Remission Regulation


[includes amendments up to B.C. Reg. 16/2018, February 20, 2018]





Definitions




1


In this regulation:



"Canadian-controlled private corporation"

means a corporation that must pay tax under section 16 (1) of the

Income Tax Act

;



"logging tax"

has the same meaning as in section 19.1 of the

Income Tax Act

;



"taxation year"

, in relation to a Canadian-controlled private corporation, means a
taxation year of the corporation under the

Income Tax Act

.






Remission




2

(1)


Subject to this section, authorization is given for the remission of
logging tax paid by a Canadian-controlled private corporation for a
taxation year ending after December 31, 2008.




(2)

The remission under subsection (1) is subject to the following
conditions:




(a)

the Canadian-controlled private corporation must have paid any logging
tax payable for the taxation year;




(b)

the Canadian-controlled private corporation must have paid any tax
payable for the taxation year under the

Income Tax Act

;




(c)

the Canadian-controlled private corporation must file an application
with the Commissioner of Income Tax that is in the form, and contains
the information, required by the Commissioner of Income Tax;




(d)

the Canadian-controlled private corporation must agree that, if there
is a subsequent assessment of the corporation for the taxation year
under the

Income Tax Act

or the

Logging Tax Act

, the corporation will refund to the government the amount by which
the amount of the remission under subsection (1) for the taxation year
that was paid to the corporation or set-off under the

Financial Administration Act

exceeds the amount of the remission the corporation is entitled to
receive for the taxation year.




(3)

Subject to subsection (4), the amount of the remission under
subsection (1) to a Canadian-controlled private corporation for a
taxation year is equal to the amount by which




(a)

1/3 of the logging tax paid by the Canadian-controlled private
corporation for the taxation year

exceeds



(b)

the tax payable under the

Income Tax Act

for the taxation year by the Canadian-controlled private corporation
computed as if the only deduction from tax otherwise payable under
that Act for the taxation year by the corporation were the deduction
under section 14 (3) of that Act.




(4)

The amount of the remission under subsection (1) to a
Canadian-controlled private corporation may not exceed the following:




(a)

$3 333 for a taxation year ending on or before December 31, 2009;




(b)

$4 167 for a taxation year ending after December 31, 2009 and on or
before March 30, 2017;




(c)

$6 667 for a taxation year ending after March 30, 2017.

[am. B.C. Regs. 113/2011; 16/2018.]


[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Financial Administration Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 138, s. 19]



