







B.C. Reg. 447/78

O.C. 2465/78


Filed September 18, 1978







This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.

See the

Cumulative B.C. Regulations Bulletin 2023


for amendments effective after March 5, 2024.





Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Motor Dealer Act


Motor Dealer Act Regulation


[Last amended December 16, 2019 by B.C. Reg. 271/2019]




Definitions





Interpretation




1


In this regulation:


"Act"
means

Motor Dealer Act

;



"code of conduct"

means the code of conduct established under section 33;



"demonstration licence"

means a licence issued under section 38 of the

Motor Vehicle Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 318;



"licensed broker-agent"

means a broker-agent licensed under the Broker Licensing Regulation;



"licensed broker-agent representative"

means a broker-agent representative licensed under the Broker
Licensing Regulation;



"licensed salesperson"

means a salesperson licensed under the Salesperson Licensing
Regulation;



"licensed wholesaler"

means a wholesaler licensed under the Wholesaler Licensing Regulation;


"licensee"
means a licensed broker-agent, a licensed broker-agent representative,
a licensed salesperson or a licensed wholesaler;


"moped"
has the same meaning as in the Motor Vehicle Act Regulations;


"registrant"
means a person who holds a valid and subsisting certificate of
registration issued under the Act.


[am. B.C. Regs. 236/81; 232/97, s. 1; 200/2017, Sch. 4, s. 1; 16/2019,
Sch. 1, s. 1.]




Registration





Repealed




2


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 241/2004, Sch. 1.]






Repealed




3-4


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 143/98, s. (a).]






Repealed




4.1


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 397/97.]






Certificate to be displayed




5


A registrant must display the registrant's certificate of registration
in a conspicuous location at the registrant's usual place of business.

[am. B.C. Reg. 271/2019, s. 1.]





Exemption from use of registered name




6


On application to the registrar a registrant may be exempted from
section 3 (1) (b) of the Act for the purpose of selling or offering
for sale motor vehicles at a place other than the registrant's usual
business premises for the purposes of




(a)

a motor show, recreational vehicle show or exhibition, or




(b)

an auction sale at which members of the public other than motor
dealers may purchase motor vehicles, or




(c)

for a purpose acceptable to the registrar.






Review by registrar




7


The registrar may, for the purpose of the Act, review a motor dealer's
registration and for the purpose of the review may require any
information or material concerning the organization, operating
practices and procedures and financial status of the registrant.






Voluntary cancellation




8


A motor dealer may cancel the motor dealer's certificate of
registration at any time by filing an application for voluntary
cancellation and returning to the registrar the certificate of
registration.

[am. B.C. Reg. 271/2019, s. 2.]





Return and surrender of certificate and demonstrator plates




9


If a motor dealer's certificate of registration is suspended or
cancelled, the motor dealer must




(a)

immediately return the certificate of registration to the registrar,
and




(b)

if any demonstration licences have been issued to the motor dealer,
surrender those licences, together with any corresponding number
plates, to the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia.

[en. B.C. Reg. 271/2019, s. 3.]





Staggering of renewals




10


For the purpose of distributing renewals throughout the year the
registrar may request a motor dealer to apply for a renewal of
registration before its expiry and if such a request is made, the
motor dealer must comply with all the requirements of the Act and the
regulation respecting registration.

[am. B.C. Reg. 271/2019, s. 4.]





Fee prorated and credited




11


When registration is renewed pursuant to section 10 there must be
credited to the fee payable for the registration an amount equal to
the unexpired balance of the previous registration fee with no
reduction.

[am. B.C. Reg. 271/2019, s. 5.]



Fees





Repealed




12


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 241/2004, Sch. 1.]






Change in category




13


Within 14 days after a registrant whose business is limited to selling
motorcycles or mopeds commences dealing in other motor vehicles, the
registrant must advise the registrar and remit the appropriate fee
prorated to the nearest full month and reduced by the unexpired
portion already paid.


[am. B.C. Regs. 200/2017, Sch. 1, s. 1; 271/2019, s. 6.]




Exemptions





Exemptions




14

(1)


In this section,
"gross vehicle weight rating"
has the same meaning as in section 1 of the Motor Vehicle Act
Regulations.




(2)

The following persons are exempt from the Act:




(a)

the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia;




(b)

an insurer licensed under the

Insurance Act

.




(3)

The following vehicles are exempt from the definition of "motor
vehicle" in section 1 (1) of the Act:




(a)

a boat trailer;




(b)

a utility trailer with a gross vehicle weight rating of 1 400 kg or
less;




(c)

a golf cart.




(4)

A person is exempt, in respect of a motor vehicle, from the definition
of "motor dealer" in section 1 (1) of the Act if any of the following
conditions is met:




(a)

the person may dispose of the motor vehicle under section 12 of the

Repairers Lien Act

or section 4 (1) of the

Warehouse Lien Act

;




(b)

the person deals with the motor vehicle in the course of the person's
duties as a liquidator, receiver, trustee in bankruptcy, person acting
under an order of a court or an executor or trustee under a will;




(c)

the person deals with the motor vehicle in the course of the person's
duties as




(i)

a sheriff or court bailiff under the

Sheriff Act

, or




(ii)

a bailiff licensed under the

Business Practices and Consumer Protection Act

;




(d)

the person




(i)

deals with the motor vehicle incidentally to the person's business of
buying, selling, dealing in or lending money on the security of
conditional sale contracts, chattel mortgages, bills of lading,
warehouse receipts, bills of exchange, choses in action or other
commercial paper, including, without limitation, as a chartered bank,
trust company, sales finance company, consumer loan company or credit
union, and




(ii)

does not advertise or promote with respect to the person's disposition
of motor vehicles described in subparagraph (i);




(e)

the person rents the motor vehicle to another person on terms that do
not provide for the other person to acquire the motor vehicle;




(f)

the person is a manufacturer, exporter, importer or distributor of
motor vehicles who is described in paragraph (b) or (c) but not in
paragraph (a) of that definition of "motor dealer";




(g)

the person holds an auction of the motor vehicle, if




(i)

the motor vehicle is offered for disposition on behalf of a
registrant, and




(ii)

the person who holds the auction and, if any, the directors, officers,
employees and agents of that person have no property interest in the
motor vehicle.




(5)

A wholesaler is exempt, in respect of a motor vehicle, from the
Wholesaler Licensing Regulation if any of the following conditions is
met:




(a)

the person is described in subsection (4) (a), (b), (c) or (d);




(b)

the person deals with the motor vehicle for the purposes of the motor
vehicle being wrecked or dismantled for parts or scrap metal and does
not sell motor vehicles for any other purpose.

[en. B.C. Reg. 200/2017, Sch. 4, s. 3.]





Exemptions â€” wholesale auctions




14.1

(1)


In this section:



"eligible bidder"

means any of the following:




(a)

a registrant;




(b)

a licensed wholesaler;




(c)

the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia or an insurer licensed
under the

Insurance Act

;



"eligible seller"

, in relation to a motor vehicle, means any of the following:




(a)

a registrant;




(b)

a licensed wholesaler;




(c)

the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia or an insurer licensed
under the

Insurance Act

;




(d)

a person exempt under section 14 (4) (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) or (f) in
respect of the motor vehicle;




(e)

the Province;



"representative"

has the same meaning as in the Wholesaler Licensing Regulation.




(2)

A person who holds an auction of motor vehicles is exempt, in respect
of that auction, from the Wholesaler Licensing Regulation if




(a)

the motor vehicles are eligible under subsection (3),




(b)

the bidding is limited to eligible bidders and conducted in accordance
with subsection (4), and




(c)

the person keeps the records referred to in subsection (5) for at
least 2 years after the last day of the auction and allows the
registrar, or a person authorized by the registrar, to inspect those
records on request.




(3)

For the purposes of subsection (2) (a), a motor vehicle is eligible if
all of the following criteria are met:




(a)

the motor vehicle is used;




(b)

the motor vehicle is offered for disposition on behalf of an eligible
seller;




(c)

the person who holds the auction and the directors, officers,
employees and agents of that person have no property interest in the
motor vehicle;




(d)

the person who holds the auction has received from the eligible seller
and made available to bidders a written statement about the motor
vehicle that




(i)

makes the disclosures referred to in section 23
[material facts]
, and




(ii)

if the motor vehicle is not intended for transportation, contains a
statement that the motor vehicle is not suitable for transportation
and is sold for parts only or purposes other than transportation.




(4)

For the purposes of subsection (2) (b), bidding is to be conducted as
follows:




(a)

in the case that bidders may be physically present at the site of the
auction, the site is to include a bidding area and access to the
bidding area is to be restricted to the following individuals:




(i)

any of the following who is wearing visible photo identification:




(A)

an eligible bidder;




(B)

a director, officer or employee of an eligible bidder;




(C)

a representative of an eligible bidder, if the eligible bidder is a
wholesaler;




(ii)

any of the following who is present for the purposes of conducting or
observing the auction:




(A)

the person who conducts the auction, a director, officer, employee or
agent of that person or an individual accompanied by any of them;




(B)

an eligible seller on behalf of whom a motor vehicle is offered for
disposition in the auction or a director, officer or employee of the
eligible seller;




(C)

the registrar or an individual authorized by the registrar;




(D)

a peace officer;




(b)

in the case that bidders may bid through electronic means, access to
the electronic means is to be restricted to eligible bidders.




(5)

For the purposes of subsection (2) (c), the following records are to
be kept:




(a)

a record of the motor vehicles offered for disposition at the auction
that includes the following for each motor vehicle:




(i)

the name of the eligible seller;




(ii)

a copy of the statement referred to in subsection (3) (d);




(iii)

the date on which the motor vehicle was offered for disposition;




(iv)

whether the motor vehicle was disposed of at the auction and, if so, a
copy of the following records:




(A)

a record evidencing the disposition of the motor vehicle that includes
the information specified in section 21 (1) and (2)
[contents of sale or purchase agreement]
;




(B)

if a warranty was made in respect of the motor vehicle by or on behalf
of the eligible seller or the person who held the auction, records
relating to the warranty;




(b)

if bidders are physically present at the site of the auction, a record
of the individuals allowed entry to the bidding area that identifies
which of them were eligible bidders;




(c)

if bidders bid through electronic means, a record of the individuals
allowed access to the electronic means.


[en. B.C. Reg. 200/2017, Sch. 4, s. 3; am. B.C. Reg. 16/2019, s. (a).]






Exemption re business premises




15


A motor dealer who orders or enters into contracts for the supply of
new motor vehicles but does not maintain an inventory of motor
vehicles and does not deal in used motor vehicles is exempt from the
requirements of section 3 (1) (a) (vi) of the Act.




Bonding





Repealed




16-19


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 222/95.]






Records




20


Every motor dealer must maintain for a period of at least 2 years from
the date of the original transaction, purchase orders, sales orders
and written records of all transactions resulting in the purchase or
sale of a motor vehicle and, in the case of a used motor vehicle, a
record of material reconditioning or other substantial work performed
on the motor vehicle, including the date and the particulars of
substantial work done, supported by repair orders, the cost of such
work and details of any inspection conducted under the

Motor Vehicle Act

.


[am. B.C. Regs. 200/2017, Sch. 4, s. 4; 271/2019, s. 5.]






Contents of sale or purchase agreement




21

(1)


If a motor dealer makes a written representation in the form of a
sales or purchase agreement respecting the motor dealer's sale of a
new motor vehicle, the motor dealer must include the following
information:




(a)

the name and address of the purchaser and vendor;




(b)

the date of the sale;




(c)

the make of the motor vehicle;




(d)

the model year;




(e)

the manufacturer's vehicle identification number;




(f)

the body type;




(g)

particulars, including price, of extra equipment or accessories added
to or removed from the motor vehicle by the motor dealer according to
the agreement made at the time of the sale;




(h)

the actual selling price of the motor vehicle;




(i)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 91/2013, Sch. s. 6 (a).]




(i.1)

the tax payable under the

Provincial Sales Tax Act

;




(j)

the down payment or deposit, including the value ascribed to any
trade-in, and the terms and conditions governing the refund of the
deposit;




(k)

the balance to be paid by the purchaser;




(l)

an itemized list of the cost of any other charges for which the
purchaser is responsible, including insurance and licence fees if they
are to be added to the contract price.




(m)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 188/2006.]


[am. B.C. Regs. 188/2006; 91/2013, Sch. s. 6; 271/2019, s. 7 (a).]



Content of sale or purchase agreement (used vehicles)




(2)

If a motor dealer makes a written representation in the form of a
sales or purchase agreement respecting the motor dealer's sale of a
used motor vehicle, the motor dealer must include the particulars
required for a new motor vehicle under subsection (1) and




(a)

any documentation or transfer fee,




(b)

the recorded odometer reading at the time of sale,




(c)

the name of any jurisdiction known to the motor dealer other than
British Columbia in which the motor vehicle has previously been
registered,




(d)

an itemized list of any repairs to be effected and the additional
cost, if any,




(e)

a statement that the motor vehicle complies with the requirements of
the

Motor Vehicle Act

, and




(f)

in the case of a motor vehicle not suitable for transportation a
statement to that effect.

[am. B.C. Reg. 271/2019, s. 7 (b).]



(2.1)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 241/2004, Sch. 1.]




(3)

A motor dealer must give a duplicate copy of the sales or purchase
agreement to the purchaser or seller, as the case may be, at the time
it is accepted by the motor dealer.


[am. B.C. Regs. 197/92, s. 1; 241/2004, Sch. 1; 271/2019, s. 7 (c).]






Motor vehicles not suitable for transportation




22


A motor dealer must ensure that any written representation including
every purchase order, sales agreement or form of contract used in a
consumer transaction for the purchase of a motor vehicle not intended
for transportation contains a statement that the motor vehicle is not
suitable for transportation and is sold for parts only or purposes
other than transportation.

[am. B.C. Reg. 271/2019, s. 5.]



Disclosures





Material facts




23


A motor dealer must ensure that in every written representation in the
form of a sale or purchase agreement respecting the motor dealer's
offering to sell or selling a motor vehicle the motor dealer
discloses, to the best of that motor dealer's knowledge and belief,
the following:




(a)

whether the motor vehicle has been used




(i)

as a taxi operated under a passenger directed vehicle authorization
under the

Passenger Transportation Act

,




(ii)

as a police or emergency vehicle, or




(iii)

in organized racing;




(b)

whether the motor vehicle has




(i)

in the case of a new motor vehicle, sustained damage requiring repairs
costing more than 20% of the asking price of the motor vehicle, or




(ii)

in the case of a used motor vehicle, sustained damages requiring
repairs costing more than $2 000;




(c)

whether the motor vehicle has been used as a lease or rental vehicle;




(d)

whether a used motor vehicle has been brought into the Province
specifically for the purpose of sale;




(e)

whether the odometer of the motor vehicle accurately records the true
distance travelled by the motor vehicle.

[am. B.C. Regs. 363/84; 271/2019, s. 8.]





Advertising company car, executive car or demonstrator




24


In an advertisement, representation or offer for sale, a motor dealer
must not refer to a motor vehicle as being a company car, executive
car or demonstrator, or by any similar description, unless




(a)

the motor dealer or manufacturer has used the motor vehicle in the
course of the motor dealer's or manufacturer's normal business
operations, and




(b)

the motor dealer acquired the motor vehicle as a new automobile.

[en. B.C. Reg. 271/2019, s. 9.]





Replacement of odometer




25


If it is necessary for a motor dealer to exchange or repair the
odometer of the motor vehicle or any part of a motor vehicle that is
directly related to the odometer, and the replacement or repair
results in the odometer reading for the motor vehicle being changed,
the motor dealer must record the reading that was on the odometer
before the exchange or repair and the reading at the time of the sale
on the sales order or purchase agreement as well as in the motor
dealer's permanent written records.

[am. B.C. Reg. 271/2019, s. 10.]





Advertising new motor vehicle




26


A motor dealer exhibiting or offering for sale a new motor vehicle
must affix to it in a clear and legible manner information concerning
it as follows:




(a)

the serial number or vehicle identification number or numbers, make
and model;




(b)

the price at which it is offered for sale, inclusive of accessories
and items of optional equipment that are physically attached to it,
transportation charges for its delivery to the dealer and any
pre-delivery and inspection service charged by the dealer;




(c)

an itemized list describing each accessory and item of optional
equipment that is physically attached to it.


[en. B.C. Reg. 236/81, s. (b); am. B.C. Reg. 271/2019, s. 5.]






Advertising new motor vehicle




26.1


A motor dealer must not refer in an advertisement to the price at
which a new motor vehicle is offered for sale, unless the price is the
total asking price and includes all elements provided for in section
26 (b).

[en. B.C. Reg. 493/92.]





Advertising used motor vehicles




27


A motor dealer exhibiting or offering for sale a used motor vehicle
must affix to it in a clear and legible manner information concerning
it as follows:




(a)

the price at which it is offered for sale;




(b)

if it is a vehicle that is not suitable for transportation, the
statement "Not Suitable for Transportation".


[en. B.C. Reg. 236/81, s. (c); am. B.C. Reg. 271/2019, s. 11.]






Exemption for vehicles in storage area or part of new inventory




28


Sections 26 and 27 do not apply to




(a)

a motor vehicle which is in a storage area, or




(b)

a motor dealer's inventory which has not yet been prepared for sale.

[en. B.C. Reg. 236/81, s. (d).]





Business Practices and Consumer Protection Act
powers




29

(1)


For the purposes of section 8.1 of the Act, the following provisions
of the

Business Practices and Consumer Protection Act

are prescribed:




(a)

sections 4 to 6
[deceptive acts or practices]
;




(b)

sections 7 to 10
[unconscionable acts or practices]
;




(b.1)

sections 18 (1) and (2) and 46 to 56
[distance sales contracts]
;




(c)

sections 59, 60 and 62 to 64
[advertising]
, except sections 62 (3) (b) and 63 (3) (g);




(d)

sections 66 (2) and 67 to 70

[disclosure requirements applicable to all credit agreements]

;




(e)

sections 71 and 73 to 77
[rights and obligations of borrowers and credit grantors]
;




(f)

sections 79 and 80
[credit arranged by loan brokers]
;




(g)

sections 83 to 88
[disclosure required in relation to fixed credit]
, except sections 84 (m) and 88 (2) (a);




(h)

section 101
[disclosure required in relation to leases]
;




(i)

sections 104 and 105
[general]
.




(2)

Without limiting any other rights and powers of the registrar under
the Act, the registrar may, in relation to the provisions prescribed
in subsection (1), exercise




(a)

the rights and powers under the following sections of the Act:




(i)

section 4 (5)
[impose condition on registration]
;




(ii)

section 5
[refusal, suspension or termination of registration]
;




(iii)

section 7 (1)
[inquiries]
;




(iv)

section 25 (3)
[complaints]
;




(v)

section 27 (1) to (3)
[order to refrain from dealing with assets]
;




(vi)

section 28 (1)
[appointment of receiver]
;




(vii)

section 31
[court order to comply]
;




(viii)

section 32 (1)
[financial statements]
, and




(b)

the rights and powers of the director under the following provisions
of Part 10 of the

Business Practices and Consumer Protection Act

:




(i)

sections 149 to 153
[inspections]
, except section 151 (2) and (3);




(ii)

sections 154, 155 and 157 (1)
[undertakings and orders]
;




(iii)

sections 158 (2), 159, 161 (1), and 163 (1)
[appointment of receivers and property freezing orders]
;




(iv)

sections 164 (1), 166 and 168 (2)
[administrative penalties]
;




(v)

sections 172 and 173 (2)
[court proceedings]
.




(3)

The following provisions of the Act apply to the exercise by the
registrar of any of the rights or powers referred to in subsection
(2):




(a)

section 6
[hearing if requested]
;




(b)

section 7 (2)
[providing information and documents]
;




(c)

section 25 (1) and (2)
[complaints]
;




(d)

section 26
[inspection]
;




(e)

section 27 (4) and (5)
[order to refrain from dealing with assets]
;




(f)

section 28 (2) to (4)
[appointment of receiver]
;




(g)

section 29
[confidentiality of information]
;




(h)

section 30
[service of notices]
;




(i)

section 32 (2)
[financial statements]
;




(j)

section 33
[admissibility of registrar's certificates]
;




(k)

section 35
[offences]
;




(l)

section 35.1
[penalties]
;




(m)

section 36
[limitation period]
;




(n)

section 37
[liability of registrar and others]
.




(4)

The following provisions of Part 10 of the

Business Practices and Consumer Protection Act

apply to the exercise by the registrar of any of the rights or powers
referred to in subsection (2):




(a)

section 151 (2) and (3)
[inspections]
;




(b)

section 157 (2)
[undertakings and orders]
;




(c)

sections 160, 161 (2) and (3), 162 and 163 (2) to (4)
[appointment of receivers and property freezing orders]
;




(d)

sections 164 (2) to (5), 165, 167, 168 (1) and 170
[administrative penalties]
;




(e)

section 173 (1) and (3)
[court proceedings]
.


[en. B.C. Reg. 586/2004; am. B.C. Regs. 124/2006, Sch. s. 1; 200/2017,
Sch. 1, s. 2.]




Leases





Disclosure in relation to leases




30

(1)


In this section,
"consumer"
means an individual who leases or agrees to lease a motor vehicle from
a motor dealer for purposes that are primarily personal, family or
household.




(2)

A motor dealer must disclose in writing the following information to
the consumer before the consumer enters into an agreement to lease a
motor vehicle from the motor dealer:




(a)

a summary of costs and credits relating to any extended warranty and
that is due upon signing the lease;




(b)

all express warranties and guarantees made by the manufacturer or
motor dealer with respect to the motor vehicle;




(c)

who is responsible for the maintenance and servicing of the motor
vehicle;




(d)

a description of any insurance, including types and amounts of
coverage, required to be provided and paid for by the consumer;




(e)

any limitations on the consumer's use and enjoyment of the motor
vehicle, including, without limitation, any restriction respecting
authorized drivers or requirements for permission to take the motor
vehicle outside of British Columbia;




(f)

the amount of tax in each periodic payment to be made by the consumer
under the agreement, based on the applicable tax rate at the time of
disclosure;




(g)

the requirement under section 31 (3) that the motor vehicle remain in
the possession of the motor dealer and the consumer's rights and the
motor dealer's obligations under section 31 (4) to (6).




(3)

Prescribed provisions that a motor dealer must include in each lease
contract that the motor dealer enters into with a consumer are
provisions that incorporate the information required to be disclosed
under subsection (2) (a) to (f).

[en. B.C. Reg. 124/2006, Sch. s. 2.]





Deemed provisions in a lease




31

(1)


In this section,
"consumer"
has the same meaning as in section 30.




(2)

This section is deemed to be included in a lease of a motor vehicle by
a motor dealer.




(3)

Subject to a waiver under subsection (6), after the motor dealer and
the consumer enter into the lease, the motor dealer must retain
possession of the motor vehicle for a period of one clear day.




(4)

The consumer may cancel the lease during the period in which the motor
vehicle must remain in the possession of the motor dealer under
subsection (3).




(5)

If the consumer cancels the lease under subsection (4),




(a)

the motor dealer must reimburse to the consumer any deposit or other
money paid to the motor dealer in respect of the lease, and




(b)

the consumer is not liable to pay any charge, fee or penalty for
cancelling the lease contract.




(6)

A consumer may waive, in writing, the requirements of subsection (3).




(7)

All warranties and guarantees with respect to a motor vehicle and the
equipment on the motor vehicle made by the manufacturer to the motor
dealer are assigned to the consumer.


[en. B.C. Reg. 124/2006, Sch. s. 2; am. B.C. Reg. 200/2017, Sch. 1, s.
3.]




Administrative Penalties





Administrative penalties




32

(1)


For the purposes of section 26.04 (1) (a) and (5) (a) of the Act, the
following provisions of the Act are prescribed:




(a)

section 3 (1) and (2)
[registration required for motor dealer]
;




(b)

section 10
[voluntary cancellation of registration]
;




(c)

section 11
[registered name]
;




(d)

section 12
[additional information of changes]
;




(e)

section 13 (1) and (2)
[advertising]
;




(f)

section 13.1
[employing salespersons]
;




(g)

section 24 (2)
[registration cancelled if compensation fund not repaid]
;




(h)

section 25 (1)
[complaints]
;




(i)

section 26
[inspection]
;




(j)

section 32 (1)
[financial statements]
;




(k)

section 34 (1) and (2)
[odometers]
.




(2)

For the purposes of section 26.04 (1) (a) and (5) (a) of the Act, the
following provisions of this regulation are prescribed:




(a)

section 5
[certificate to be displayed]
;




(b)

section 9

[return and surrender of certificate and demonstrator plates]

;




(c)

section 13
[change in category]
;




(d)

section 20
[records]
;




(e)

section 21 (1), (2) and (3)
[contents of sale or purchase agreement]
;




(f)

section 22
[motor vehicles not suitable for transportation]
;




(g)

section 23
[material facts]
;




(h)

section 24
[advertising company car, executive car or demonstrator]
;




(i)

section 25
[replacement of odometer]
;




(j)

section 26
[advertising new motor vehicle]
;




(k)

section 26.1
[advertising new motor vehicle]
;




(l)

section 27
[advertising used motor vehicles]
;




(m)

section 30 (2) and (3)
[disclosure in relation to leases]
;




(n)

section 31 (3) and (5) (a)
[deemed provisions in lease]
;




(o)

section 33 (2)
[code of conduct]
;




(p)

section 34
[code of conduct to be displayed]
.




(3)

For the purposes of section 26.04 (1) (a) and (5) (a) of the Act, the
following provisions of the Motor Dealer Consignment Sales Regulation
are prescribed:




(a)

section 2 (1)
[form of consignment agreement]
;




(b)

section 4 (1)
[form of purchase agreement]
;




(c)

section 6 (2) (b), (3) and (4)
[manner of payment]
.




(4)

For the purposes of section 26.04 (1) (a) and (5) (a) of the Act, the
following provisions of the Motor Dealer Customer Compensation Fund
Regulation are prescribed:




(a)

section 2 (1)
[annual payments]
;




(b)

section 3 (3)
[additional payments]
.




(5)

For the purposes of section 26.04 (1) (a) and (5) (a) of the Act,
section 2
[prohibition on acting without salesperson licence]
of the Salesperson Licensing Regulation is prescribed.




(6)

For the purposes of section 26.04 (1) (a) and (5) (a) of the Act, the
following provisions of the Broker Licensing Regulation are
prescribed:




(a)

section 2
[prohibition on acting without broker-agent licence]
;




(b)

section 8
[display of broker-agent licence]
;




(c)

section 12

[prohibition on acting without broker-agent representative licence]

.




(7)

For the purposes of section 26.04 (1) (a) and (5) (a) of the Act, the
following provisions of the Wholesaler Licensing Regulation are
prescribed:




(a)

section 2
[prohibition on acting without wholesaler licence]
;




(b)

section 8
[display of wholesaler licence]
.


[en. B.C. Reg. 200/2017, Sch. 1, s. 4; am. B.C. Regs. 200/2017, Sch.
4, s. 5; 16/2019, Sch. 1, s. 2.]




Code of Conduct





Code of conduct




33

(1)


In this section:


"age"
means an age of 19 years or more;


"agreement"
means the following:




(a)

an agreement for the purchase or sale of a motor vehicle;




(b)

a licensed broker-agent service agreement referred to in section
7Â (2)Â (c) of the Broker Licensing Regulation;




(c)

a credit agreement as defined in section 57 of the

Business Practices and Consumer Protection Act

;




(d)

an agreement relating to a warranty or service plan in respect of a
motor vehicle;




(e)

an agreement with respect to insurance coverage on a motor vehicle;




(f)

an agreement not referred to in any of paragraphs (a) to (e) for the
supply of goods or services by a supplier to a consumer for purposes
that are primarily personal, family or household.




(2)

A licensee or registrant, in the course of business,




(a)

must act with honesty and integrity,




(b)

must not discriminate against a person because of the race, colour,
ancestry, place of origin, religion, marital status, family status,
physical or mental disability, sex, sexual orientation, gender
identity or expression, or age of that person,




(c)

must include in a written agreement any representations made, orally
or in writing, by the licensee or registrant in respect of the
transaction that is the subject of the agreement,




(d)

must ensure that inquiries from a consumer are responded to promptly
and courteously,




(e)

must not make false or misleading representations with respect to any
amount charged in respect of a consumer transaction,




(f)

must not adversely affect the reputation of the authority, a licensee,
a registrant or the registrar,




(g)

must not intimidate a consumer,




(h)

must safeguard records in respect of a consumer that are in the
possession or control of the licensee or registrant, and




(i)

must not aid, abet or cause a person to contravene




(i)

the Act or the regulations under the Act,




(ii)

the

Business Practices and Consumer Protection Act

or the regulations under that Act,




(iii)

any other law of British Columbia or of another jurisdiction,




(iv)

a condition of registration, or




(v)

a condition of a licence authorized under the regulations.

[en. B.C. Reg. 16/2019, Sch. 1, s. 3.]





Code of conduct to be displayed




34


A licensed broker-agent, a licensed wholesaler and a registrant must
display, in a conspicuous place at the person's business premises, a
copy of the code of conduct in the form provided by the registrar.

[en. B.C. Reg. 16/2019, Sch. 1, s. 3.]





Declaration




35


A licensee or registrant must, not later than 30 days after the date
this section comes into force, provide the authority with a
declaration, in the form provided by the registrar, that the person
has read and understood the code of conduct.

[en. B.C. Reg. 16/2019, Sch. 1, s. 3.]



Schedule A



Form 1

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 241/2004, Sch. 1.]


Forms 2 and 3

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 143/98, s. (b).]


Form 4

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 397/97.]


Schedule B

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 241/2004, Sch. 1.]


Schedule B1

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 21/88, s. (c).]

[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Motor Dealer Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 316, ss. 3 (1), 4, 9, 34 and 38.]



