







B.C. Reg. 296/2007

O.C. 618/2007


Deposited September 24, 2007

effective November 1, 2007





This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Law and Equity Act


Notice to Mediate (Family) Regulation


[Last amended October 30, 2023 by B.C. Reg. 227/2023]






Definitions




1


In this regulation:



"agreement to mediate"

means an agreement referred to in section 14;


"court"
means the Supreme Court of British Columbia;



"date of trial"

means the date set for trial in a notice of trial filed under the
Supreme Court Family Rules;


"deliver"
means, in relation to a delivery under this regulation,




(a)

personally deliver,




(b)

mail by ordinary mail to the mailing address the intended recipient
has provided for such deliveries,




(c)

transmit by fax to the fax number the intended recipient has provided
for such deliveries, or




(d)

transmit by email to the email address the intended recipient has
provided for such deliveries;



"family law proceeding"

means a proceeding in which relief is claimed under the

Family Law Act

or the

Divorce Act

(Canada);


"mediation"
means a collaborative process in which two or more parties meet and
attempt, with the assistance of a mediator, to resolve issues in
dispute between them;



"mediation session"

means a meeting between two or more parties to a family law proceeding
during which they are engaged in mediation;


"mediator"
means a neutral and impartial facilitator with no decision making
power who assists parties in negotiating a mutually acceptable
settlement of issues in dispute between them;



"participant"

means a party to a family law proceeding who has not been exempted,
under section 23 (c) or section 25 (c), from attending the mediation
session;



"pre-mediation meeting"

means a meeting referred to in section 13;



"roster organization"

means any body designated by the Attorney General to select mediators
for the purposes of this regulation;


"serve"
has the same meaning as in the Supreme Court Family Rules.


[am. B.C. Regs. 160/2010, s. 1; 66/2012, s. 1; 373/2012, s. 1.]






Application




2


This regulation applies to family law proceedings.

[en. B.C. Reg. 66/2012, s. 2.]





Initiating mediation




3


Subject to sections 2 and 4, any party to a family law proceeding may
initiate mediation in that proceeding by serving a Notice to Mediate
(Family) in Form 1 on every other party to the proceeding.

[en. B.C. Reg. 373/2012, s. 2.]





Not more than one mediation under this regulation in any proceeding




4


Unless the court otherwise orders, not more than one mediation may be
initiated under this regulation in relation to any family law
proceeding.






When notice to mediate must be served




5


Unless the court otherwise orders, a Notice to Mediate may be served
under section 3 no earlier than 90 days after the filing of the first
response to family claim in the family law case and no later than 90
days before the date of trial.

[am. B.C. Regs. 160/2010, s. 3; 373/2012, s. 3.]





Appointment of mediator




6


The participants must jointly appoint a mutually acceptable mediator
within 14 days after the Notice to Mediate has been served on all
parties.

[am. B.C. Reg. 160/2010, s. 4.]





Application to roster organization




7


If the participants do not jointly appoint a mutually acceptable
mediator within the time required by section 6, any participant may
apply to a roster organization for an appointment of a mediator.






Roster organization's appointment procedure




8


The following procedure applies if an application to a roster
organization is made under section 7:




(a)

the roster organization must, within 7 days after receiving the
application, communicate to all participants an identical list
containing at least 6 names of possible mediators;




(b)

each participant must, within 7 days after receipt of the list
referred to in paragraph (a),




(i)

delete from the list up to 2 names to which the participant objects,




(ii)

number the remaining names on the list in order of preference, and




(iii)

deliver the amended list to the roster organization;




(c)

if a participant does not deliver the amended list within the time
referred to in paragraph (b), the participant is deemed to have
accepted all of the names;




(d)

within 7 days after the expiry of the 7 day period referred to in
paragraph (b), the roster organization must select the mediator from
the remaining names on the list or, if no names remain on that list,
from any available mediators, whether or not the selected mediator was
included on the original list provided under paragraph (a), taking
into account the following:




(i)

the order of preference indicated by the participants on the returned
lists;




(ii)

the need for the mediator to be neutral and independent;




(iii)

the qualifications of the mediator;




(iv)

the mediator's fees;




(v)

the mediator's availability;




(vi)

any other consideration likely to result in the selection of an
impartial, competent and effective mediator.






Notification of mediator




9


Promptly after a roster organization selects the mediator, the roster
organization must notify the participants in writing of that
selection.






Deemed date of appointment of mediator




10


The mediator selected by a roster organization is deemed to be
appointed by the participants on the date that the notice is sent
under section 9.






Replacement of appointed mediator




11


If the mediator selected by the roster organization under section 8
(d) is unable or unwilling to act as mediator, the selected mediator
or any participant may so notify the roster organization and the
roster organization must, within 7 days after receiving that notice,
select a new mediator in accordance with section 8 (d).






Separate pre-mediation meetings must be held




12


The mediator must hold a pre-mediation meeting separately with each
participant before a mediation session.






Pre-mediation meeting




13


At a pre-mediation meeting with a participant, the mediator must




(a)

undertake a screening process for power imbalance, domestic violence
and abuse, and assess whether mediation is appropriate in the
circumstances determined from that process,




(b)

discuss with the participant the importance of independent legal
advice, and




(c)

endeavour to have the participant consider all organizational matters
relating to the mediation including the following:




(i)

the issues that are to be dealt with during the mediation process;




(ii)

pre-mediation disclosure of documents;




(iii)

exchange of documents;




(iv)

obtaining and exchanging expert reports;




(v)

scheduling;




(vi)

review and signing of an agreement to mediate.






Agreement to mediate




14


An agreement to mediate referred to in section 13 (c) (vi) must
include




(a)

information about the mediation process,




(b)

information about the fees and disbursements the mediator will charge,
and




(c)

a statement that the mediator has discussed with the participants that
it is important for them to obtain independent legal advice.






Power of mediator to end process




15


Without limiting any other of the mediator's rights and powers in
relation to the mediation process, at any time after the mediator has
held a pre-mediation meeting, the mediator may end the mediation
process if the mediator, in the mediator's sole discretion, concludes
that




(a)

mediation is not appropriate, or




(b)

the mediation process will not be productive


and so advises the participants.

[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 4.]





Participants must attend pre-mediation meeting and mediation session




16


Unless relieved under section 23 or 25 of the obligation to attend,
each participant must




(a)

attend a pre-mediation meeting,




(b)

before the mediation session, sign an agreement to mediate, and




(c)

attend a mediation session in relation to the proceeding.






Attendance by representative




17


Despite section 16 but subject to section 18, a participant referred
to in section 16 may attend one or both of a pre-mediation meeting and
a mediation session by representative if




(a)

the participant is under legal disability and the representative is
that participant's litigation guardian, or




(b)

the participant is authorized to do so by the court on application.






Qualifications of representative




18


A representative who attends a mediation session in the place of a
participant must




(a)

be familiar with all of the relevant facts on which the participant,
on whose behalf the representative attends, intends to rely, and




(b)

have full authority to settle, or have access at the earliest
practicable opportunity to a person who has full authority to settle,
on behalf of that participant.






Participants and representatives may be accompanied by counsel




19


A participant or representative who attends a pre-mediation meeting or
a mediation session may be accompanied by counsel.






Other persons may attend with consent




20


Any other person may,




(a)

with the consent of the participant with whom a pre-mediation meeting
is held, attend the pre-mediation meeting, or




(b)

with the consent of all the participants, attend a mediation session.






Attendance by communications medium




21


A person required or entitled to attend a pre-mediation meeting or a
mediation session may attend that meeting or mediation session by
telephone or other communications medium if authorized to do so by the
mediator.






Exemption if previous mediation




22

(1)


Parties to a family law proceeding need not attend a pre-mediation
meeting or a mediation session if all of the parties to the proceeding
have already been involved in a mediation session in relation to the
matters in issue in that proceeding.




(2)

A judicial case conference is not a mediation session for the purposes
of this section.






Other exemptions




23


A party need not attend a pre-mediation meeting or a mediation session
if




(a)

a party has obtained against another party a protection order,
including, without limitation, a protection order under section 183 of
the

Family Law Act

or a peace bond under section 810 of the

Criminal Code

,




(b)

the mediator advises the participants under section 15 that mediation
is not appropriate or that the mediation process will not be
productive,




(c)

the party is exempted from participating in the mediation process
under section 25, or




(d)

the participants agree that the party need not participate in the
mediation process and that agreement is confirmed by the mediator in
writing.

[am. B.C. Reg. 373/2012, s. 4.]





Scheduling of mediation session




24


A mediation session must occur within 60 days after the appointment of
the mediator but not later than 14 days before the date of trial
unless a later specified date




(a)

is agreed on by all participants and that agreement is confirmed by
the mediator in writing, or




(b)

is ordered by the court.






Applications to court




25


On an application, the court may order that




(a)

the mediation proceed on the terms and conditions, if any, and at the
time or times, that the court considers appropriate,




(b)

the mediation be adjourned to a later date on the terms and conditions
that the court considers appropriate, or




(c)

one or more of the parties is exempt from participating in the
mediation process if, in the court's opinion, it is impracticable or
materially unfair to require the party to attend.






Court may defer mediation session




26


On an application for an order referred to in section 24 (b), the
court




(a)

must take into account all of the circumstances, including




(i)

whether the mediation will be more likely to succeed if it is
postponed to allow the participants to acquire more information, and




(ii)

any other circumstances the court considers appropriate, and




(b)

may make any order referred to in section 25.






Pre-mediation exchange of information




27


At least 14 days before the mediation session is to be held in
relation to a proceeding, each participant must deliver to the
mediator a Statement of Facts and Issues in Form 2 setting out the
factual and legal basis for the participant's claim or opposition to
the relief sought in the proceeding.






Mediator must distribute statements




28


Promptly after receipt of all the Statements of Facts and Issues
required to be delivered under section 27, the mediator must deliver
each participant's statement to each of the other participants.






Fee declaration




29


The participants must complete a fee declaration in accordance with
section 30, before or at the mediation session.






Form of fee declaration




30


A fee declaration under section 29 must be in Form 3 and must




(a)

disclose the cost of the mediation services, and




(b)

contain a declaration by the participants that the cost of the
mediation will be paid




(i)

equally by the participants, or




(ii)

on any other specified basis agreed by the participants.






Fee declaration binding




31


A fee declaration completed under this rule is binding on the
participants.






Costs may include mediation cost component




32


Despite section 31, nothing in section 30 or in the fee declaration
completed under this regulation precludes there being included in the
disbursements awarded to a party in the proceeding an amount to
compensate the party for the share of the cost of the mediation that
that party paid under the declaration.






Conduct of a mediation




33


Subject to section 13, the mediator may conduct a pre-mediation
meeting and the mediation in any manner the mediator considers
appropriate to assist the participants to reach a resolution that is
timely, fair and cost-effective.

[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 3.]





Allegation of Default




34

(1)


Any participant who is of the opinion that any other participant has
failed to comply with a provision of this regulation may make
application to the court for an order under section 35.




(2)

A participant bringing an application under subsection (1) must do so
in accordance with the Supreme Court Family Rules and, without
limiting this, must, before making that application, serve on each of
the other participants




(a)

an Allegation of Default in Form 4 respecting the participant who is
alleged to have failed to comply with a provision of this regulation,
and




(b)

any affidavits in support of the application.

[am. B.C. Regs. 160/2010, s. 5; 66/2012, s. 3.]





Effect of a default




35

(1)


On an application referred to in section 34 (1), the court may do any
one or more of the following unless the participant in respect of whom
the Allegation of Default is filed satisfies the court that the
default did not occur or that there is a reasonable excuse for the
default:




(a)

adjourn the application and make an order, on any terms the court
considers appropriate, that




(i)

a pre-mediation meeting occur, or




(ii)

a mediation session occur;




(b)

adjourn the application and make an order that a participant attend
one or both of a pre-mediation meeting and a mediation session;




(c)

adjourn the application and make an order that a participant deliver a
Statement of Facts and Issues to the mediator;




(d)

stay the action until the participant in respect of whom the
allegation is filed attends one or both of a pre-mediation meeting and
a mediation session;




(e)

make any order it considers appropriate with respect to costs.




(2)

If the court considers that public disclosure of the Allegation of
Default and related affidavits would be a hardship on a participant,
the court may




(a)

order that the whole or any part of the Allegation of Default and
related affidavits be sealed in an envelope and that no person may
search the sealed documents without an order of the court, or




(b)

make such other order respecting confidentiality of those documents as
the court considers appropriate.






Court may consider default in ordering costs




36


The court may consider a default in making any order about costs,
whether that order is made following final disposition of the
proceeding or otherwise.






Confidentiality and compellability




37

(1)


Subject to sections 38 and 40 and subsections (2) and (3) of this
section, a person must not disclose, or be compelled to disclose, in
any civil, criminal, quasi-criminal, administrative or regulatory
action or proceeding,




(a)

any oral or written information acquired in anticipation of, during or
in connection with a pre-mediation meeting or a mediation session,




(b)

any opinion disclosed in anticipation of, during or in connection with
a pre-mediation meeting or a mediation session, or




(c)

any document, offer or admission made in anticipation of, during or in
connection with a pre-mediation meeting or a mediation session.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply




(a)

in respect of any information, opinion, document, offer or admission
that all of the participants agree in writing may be disclosed,




(b)

to any fee declaration, agreement to mediate or settlement document
made in anticipation of, during or in connection with a pre-mediation
meeting or a mediation session, or




(c)

to any information that does not identify the participants or the
action and that is disclosed for research or statistical purposes
only.




(3)

Despite subsection (1), if and only to the extent that it is necessary
to do so for the purposes of section 34 or 35, a participant may
disclose evidence of any act or failure to act of another participant
that is alleged, for the purpose of section 34, to constitute a
failure to comply with a provision of this regulation.






No restriction on otherwise producible information




38


Nothing in this regulation precludes a person from introducing into
evidence in any civil, criminal, quasi-criminal, administrative or
regulatory action or proceeding any information or records produced in
the course of the mediation that are otherwise producible or
compellable in those proceedings.






Concluding a mediation




39


A mediation is concluded when




(a)

all issues are resolved, or




(b)

the mediation session is completed and there is no agreement to
continue.






Certificate of Conclusion of Mediation




40


When a mediation is concluded, the mediator must deliver a Certificate
of Conclusion of Mediation in Form 5 to each of the participants who
requests one or to their counsel.

[am. B.C. Reg. 373/2012, s. 5.]



Form 1





[am. B.C. Regs. 160/2010, ss. 6 and 7; 227/2023, Sch. 2.]

No. .............................
.................................... Registry
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF BRITISH COLUMBIA
Between:
Claimant(s)
and
Respondent(s)

NOTICE TO MEDIATE

TO:

TAKE NOTICE that a mediation is to be conducted in this proceeding in
accordance with the Notice to Mediate (Family) Regulation, B.C. Reg.
296/2007.


The parties who have not been exempted from attending the mediation
session must jointly appoint a mutually acceptable mediator within 14
days after service of this Notice.


Otherwise, any of those parties may apply to a designated roster
organization for appointment of a mediator.


Dated at .............................................., British
Columbia, on .................................., 20.... .


..................................................

Party [
or party's solicitor
]

Party serving this Notice:


Form 2




[am. B.C. Reg. 160/2010, ss. 7 and 8.]
No. .............................
.................................... Registry
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF BRITISH COLUMBIA
Between:
Claimant(s)
and
Respondent(s)

STATEMENT OF FACTS AND ISSUES


PART I


[
To be completed by claimant
]

The following relief is sought:

PART II


[
To be completed by claimant
]

Basis for seeking relief:

[

Set out briefly the factual and legal basis for the relief that is
sought.

]


PART III


[
To be completed by respondent
]

Basis for opposing relief:

[

Set out briefly the factual and legal basis for opposing the relief
that is sought.

]


This mediation takes place under the Notice to Mediate (Family)
Regulation, B.C. Reg. 296/2007.


Dated at .............................................., British
Columbia, on .................................., 20.... .


..................................................

Party [
or party's solicitor
]



Form 3




[am. B.C. Reg. 160/2010, s. 7.]
No. .............................
.................................... Registry
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF BRITISH COLUMBIA
Between:
Claimant(s)
and
Respondent(s)

MEDIATION FEE DECLARATION

WHEREAS:

(a) we, or our representatives, are participating in a mediation under
the Notice to Mediate (Family) Regulation, B.C. Reg. 296/2007;


(b) the mediator will be
................................................... of
..............................., B.C.


(c) the cost of the mediation services will be $......................
for a completed mediation session, or will be calculated at
$...................... per hour plus necessary disbursements, or will
be calculated as follows:


WE WILL, subject to any agreement reached during mediation, pay the cost
of the mediation services:

1. in equal shares
or
2. as follows:

WE MAKE THIS DECLARATION under section 29 of the Notice to Mediate
(Family) Regulation, B.C. Reg. 296/2007.


Dated at .............................................., British
Columbia, on .................................., 20.... .


..................................................

Party [
or party's solicitor
]


..................................................

Party [
or party's solicitor
]



Form 4




[am. B.C. Reg. 160/2010, s. 7.]
No. .............................
.................................... Registry
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF BRITISH COLUMBIA
Between:
Claimant(s)
and
Respondent(s)

ALLEGATION OF DEFAULT


I ALLEGE THAT
................................................................ has
failed to comply with section .......... of the Notice to Mediate
(Family) Regulation, B.C. Reg. 296/2007.

THE CIRCUMSTANCES OF THE DEFAULT are as follows:

[Set out the circumstances in numbered paragraphs]


Dated at .............................................., British
Columbia, on .................................., 20.... .


...............................................

Party [
or party's solicitor
]



Form 5




[am. B.C. Reg. 160/2010, s. 7.]
No. .............................
.................................... Registry
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF BRITISH COLUMBIA
Between:
Claimant(s)
and
Respondent(s)

CERTIFICATE OF CONCLUSION OF MEDIATION


I CERTIFY THAT I,
................................................................., have
concluded a mediation session or otherwise ended the mediation process
in this matter in accordance with the Notice to Mediate (Family)
Regulation, B.C. Reg. 296/2007, and that

[ ] all issues are resolved,
[ ] some issues are resolved,

[ ] mediation is not appropriate and I have so advised the parties
who have not been exempted from attending the mediation session,


[ ] the process will not be productive and I have so advised the
parties who have not been exempted from attending the mediation session,


[ ] the mediation session is completed and there is no agreement to
continue.


Dated at .............................................., British
Columbia, on .................................., 20.... .


.................................................

Mediator


Name: ..................................................


Address: ..................................................

..................................................

[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Law and Equity Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 253, s. 68.]



