







B.C. Reg. 152/2019

O.C. 405/2019


Deposited July 8, 2019

effective September 15, 2019





This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Environmental Management Act


Open Burning Smoke Control Regulation

[Last amended March 30, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 76/2022]



Part 1 — Interpretation and Application





Definitions




1


In this regulation:



"accelerant material"

means a substance used to aid ignition or accelerate combustion of a
fire;


"Act"
means the

Environmental Management Act

;



"air curtain incinerator"

means a device that is designed to aid combustion and reduce emissions
by directing a flow of air across the




(a)

open chamber in the device, or




(b)

trench


in which the combustion occurs, in such a manner as to re-circulate
air and smoke in the open chamber or trench;



"auxiliary forced air equipment"

means equipment, other than an air curtain incinerator, that applies
forced air;



"band council"

means




(a)

a "council of the band" as defined in the

Indian Act

(Canada), or




(b)

the governing body of a legal entity that, under an Act of Canada, is
established as the successor to a band as defined in the

Indian Act

(Canada), not including a treaty first nation;



"burnt surface area"

means the area that is underneath or surrounding the remains of a fire
and covered by charred or smoldering vegetative debris;


"campfire"
means an open fire that burns wood in one pile not exceeding 0.6 m in
height and 0.75 m in width;



"category 3 open fire"

means an open fire that burns




(a)

material concurrently in 3 or more piles each not exceeding 2 m in
height and 3 m in width,




(b)

material in one or more piles each exceeding 2 m in height or 3 m in
width, or




(c)

one or more windrows;



"community care facility"

has the same meaning as in the

Community Care and Assisted Living Act

;



"custom ventilation forecast"

means a forecast of the atmosphere's ability in a geographic area to
disperse smoke in accordance with section 16;



"custom ventilation forecaster"

means a person who




(a)

is a meteorologist employed by Environment Canada and classified as a
Meteorologist 3 or above,




(b)

is a Weather Forecaster, a Fire Weather Forecaster, an Air Quality
Meteorologist or an Air Quality Science Specialist employed by or
under contract with the government, or




(c)

has similar knowledge and experience as described in paragraph (a) or
(b) and is approved in writing by a director to conduct custom
ventilation forecasts for the purposes of this regulation;


"day"
means a calendar day from midnight to midnight;



"diseased vegetative debris"

means vegetative debris that is verified or confirmed under section 24
as being infested with a plant pathogen or insect;



"dry basis moisture content"

, with respect to a given amount of vegetative debris, means the
weight of moisture contained in the vegetative debris divided by the
weight of the vegetative debris if the vegetative debris was dry, with
both weights measured in the same weight units, multiplied by 100 and
expressed as a percentage;



"dry land sort area"

means an area of land in which commercially harvested timber is
collected and sorted before the timber is transferred to another
location, but does not include a timber processing area at a




(a)

roadside work area,




(b)

statutory right of way, within the meaning of the

Land Title Act

, or




(c)

facility that manufactures wood products other than whole logs for
export or whole logs for further manufacturing by another facility;


"end"
, with regards to when open burning ends, means,




(a)

if the open burning is being done using an air curtain incinerator,
the point in time when the fire in the air curtain incinerator is
emitting smoke from no more than 10% of the base of the air curtain
incinerator, and




(b)

respecting all other open burning, the point in time when each pile of
vegetative debris has ceased flaming and is emitting smoke from no
more than 10% of its burnt surface area;



"high smoke sensitivity zone"

means




(a)

land in the province that is outlined and shaded in pink, and labelled
"High Smoke Sensitivity Zone" in the legend, on a map listed in
Schedule 3 except all areas of that land that are designated under
section 7 as being a medium smoke sensitivity zone or low smoke
sensitivity zone, and




(b)

all areas of land that are designated under section 7 as being a high
smoke sensitivity zone;


"highway"
has the same meaning as in the

Transportation Act

;



"local government"

has the same meaning as in the

Local Government Act

;



"low smoke sensitivity zone"

means land in the province that is not a high smoke sensitivity zone
or a medium smoke sensitivity zone;



"medium smoke sensitivity zone"

means




(a)

land in the province that is outlined and shaded in yellow, and
labelled "Medium Smoke Sensitivity Zone" in the legend, on a map
listed in Schedule 3 except all areas of that land that are designated
under section 7 as being a high smoke sensitivity zone or low smoke
sensitivity zone, and




(b)

all areas of land that are designated under section 7 as being a
medium smoke sensitivity zone;


"ministry"
means the ministry of the minister responsible for the Act;



"open burning"

means the combustion of vegetative debris using an open fire, other
than




(a)

for a domestic or an agricultural purpose, if all of the vegetative
debris is branches or other pieces of vegetative debris, with or
without leaves, each branch or piece of which is less than 3 cm in
diameter, or




(b)

a campfire;


"open fire"
means the combustion of material without using a stack or chimney to
vent the emitted products of combustion to the atmosphere;



"parcel of land"

means a lot, block or other area in which land is held or into which
land is subdivided;


"pile"
includes a windrow, except in the definitions of "campfire" and
"category 3 open fire" and in sections 13 (2) (c), (d) and (e) and 27
(b), (e), (f) and (g);



"plan for community wildfire risk reduction"

means a plan, or an addendum to a plan, developed or endorsed by the
government, a local government, a band council, a treaty first nation
or the Nisg̱a'a Government that




(a)

describes the risks to a community related to a fire starting outside
of the community and threatening the community,




(b)

identifies the measures necessary to mitigate the risks referred to in
paragraph (a) of this definition,




(c)

outlines a plan of action to implement the measures referred to in
paragraph (b) of this definition, and




(d)

identifies the geographic areas to which the plan applies;



"population centre"

means a city, town, resort municipality, district municipality,
mountain resort municipality, community, first nation village or
recreational community as defined and listed in the most current
edition of the BC Gazetteer;



"private land"

means land in respect of which a person other than Her Majesty the
Queen holds a fee simple or leasehold interest;



"roadside work area"

has the same meaning as in section 35 (1) of the Forest Planning and
Practices Regulation;



"seasoned vegetative debris"

means vegetative debris that




(a)

has been dried to the extent that the dry basis moisture content is
30% or less,




(b)

has been put in piles for a period of at least 4 months, or




(c)

has originated from standing dead timber;


"smoke"
means the gases, particulate matter and other products of combustion
emitted into the atmosphere from open burning;


"start"
, with regards to when open burning starts, means,




(a)

if the open burning is being done using an air curtain incinerator,
the point in time when the fire in the air curtain incinerator is
first ignited, and




(b)

respecting all other open burning, the point in time when the first
pile of vegetative debris is ignited;



"vegetative debris"

means disturbed or undisturbed vegetative matter targeted for
disposal;



"ventilation forecast"

means the afternoon ventilation index forecast issued by Environment
Canada for a geographic area;


"work camp"
means land or premises on which an employer, in connection with a
logging, sawmill, mining, oil or gas operation, a construction
project, a cannery, or a similar thing, owns, operates or maintains,
or has established, permanent or temporary structures for use, with or
without charge, by at least 100 employees as living quarters.






Prescribed activity




2


The activity of open burning is prescribed for the purposes of section
6 (3) of the Act.






Open burning requiring a permit or approval under the Act




3


A person must obtain a permit or an approval under, respectively,
section 14 or 15 of the Act in order to carry on any of the following
open burning:




(a)

open burning at a dry land sort area in a high smoke sensitivity zone;




(b)

open burning at a facility that manufactures wood products, other than
whole logs for export or whole logs for further manufacturing by
another facility.






Exemptions from this regulation




4

(1)


If a person carries on open burning in accordance with a permit or
approval as described in section 3 (a) or (b) of this regulation, the
open burning is exempt from all the provisions of this regulation.




(2)

If a person carries on open burning under a plan for community
wildfire risk reduction in a high smoke sensitivity zone or medium
smoke sensitivity zone in accordance with an approval issued under
section 15 of the Act, the open burning is exempt from sections 9, 10,
11, 13, 14 and 15 and Part 3 of this regulation.




(3)

If a person carries on open burning of diseased vegetative debris in a
high smoke sensitivity zone or medium smoke sensitivity zone in
accordance with an approval issued under section 15 of the Act, the
open burning is exempt from sections 9, 10, 11, 13, 14 and 15 and Part
3 of this regulation.




(4)

If a person carries on open burning using air curtain incinerators in
a high smoke sensitivity zone in accordance with an approval issued
under section 15 of the Act, the open burning is exempt from sections
9, 10, 11, 13, 14 and 15 and Part 3 of this regulation.




(5)

If, before the date this section comes into force, a person was issued
a permit or an approval under, respectively, section 14 or 15 of the
Act to carry on open burning and the open burning is carried on in
accordance with the permit or approval, as applicable, the open
burning is exempt from all the provisions of this regulation.






Application of regulation respecting open burning for domestic or
agricultural purpose




5


This regulation applies to open burning for a domestic or an
agricultural purpose as follows:




(a)

if all of the vegetative debris open burned is branches or other
pieces of vegetative debris, with or without leaves, each branch or
piece of which is less than 10 cm in diameter but of which at least
some of the individual branches or pieces are 3 cm or greater, only
sections 9, 12 and 30 of this regulation apply to the open burning;




(b)

if all of the vegetative debris open burned is branches or other
pieces of vegetative debris, with or without leaves, of which at least
some of the individual branches or pieces are 10 cm or greater in
diameter, this regulation applies with respect to the open burning.






Open fires not authorized by regulation




6


Nothing in this regulation authorizes an open fire that is




(a)

prohibited by a ban on igniting open fires imposed by




(i)

a fire department, as defined in the

Fire Services Act

,




(ii)

a local government, or




(iii)

an improvement district, as defined in the

Local Government Act

, or




(b)

contrary to the

Wildfire Act

or any other enactment.






Director may designate an area as being a different smoke sensitivity
zone




7

(1)


A director may designate an area of land in a




(a)

low smoke sensitivity zone as being a medium smoke sensitivity zone or
high smoke sensitivity zone,




(b)

medium smoke sensitivity zone as being a low smoke sensitivity zone or
high smoke sensitivity zone, or




(c)

high smoke sensitivity zone as being a low smoke sensitivity zone or
medium smoke sensitivity zone, for a specified period of time not
exceeding 18 months if the director considers doing so is necessary or
adequate to protect the public or the environment.




(2)

The director may do any of the following with respect to a designation
made under subsection (1):




(a)

cancel the designation before the end of the specified period, if the
director considers the designation is no longer necessary or adequate
to protect the public or the environment;




(b)

extend the designation for specified periods, each period not to
exceed 18 months, if the director considers it necessary or adequate
to protect the public or the environment;




(c)

cancel the designation and make a different designation under
subsection (1), if the director considers it necessary or adequate to
protect the public or the environment.




(3)

The director must give notice to the public of action taken under
subsection (1) or (2)




(a)

on a publicly accessible website maintained by or on behalf of the
ministry for the purposes of this section, and




(b)

in a newspaper published in British Columbia and circulating in the
area designated under subsection (1) or, if no newspaper circulates in
the area, in a newspaper that circulates near to the area and includes
a newspaper that is free and that does not have subscribers.




Part 2 — General Requirements for Open Burning





Application of general requirements




8


All the provisions of this Part apply with respect to open burning
under this regulation unless a provision of this regulation expressly
indicates that




(a)

one or more provisions of this Part do not apply to the open burning,
or




(b)

only one or more provisions of this Part apply to the open burning.






Location of open burning




9


A person must not move vegetative debris that is targeted for open
burning from the location on which the vegetative debris originates
except within a 5 km radius of where the vegetative debris originates.






Minimize vegetative debris to be open burned




10


A person who targets vegetative debris for open burning must, before
the open burning is carried on by that person or another person,
ensure that every reasonable alternative for reducing, reusing or
recycling the vegetative debris is used in order to minimize the
amount of the vegetative debris to be open burned.






Strategies and techniques to minimize smoke




11


A person who carries on open burning must ensure that all reasonable
efforts are taken to minimize the amount of smoke emitted by the open
burning including, but not limited to, using the following strategies
or techniques:




(a)

minimizing any soil content that may be mixed in with the vegetative
debris;




(b)

in the case of open burning piles of the vegetative debris,
constructing each pile in a way that maximizes the air flow through
the vegetative debris in the pile;




(c)

maximizing the amount of vegetative debris that is seasoned vegetative
debris.






Prohibited materials




12


A person who carries on open burning must ensure that the materials
listed in paragraphs (a) to (x) of the definition of "burning or
incineration of prohibited material" in section 2 of Schedule 1 of the
Waste Discharge Regulation are not included, nor used as accelerant
material, in the open burning.






Setbacks for open burning




13

(1)


A person who carries on open burning must ensure that the open burning
is carried on at least




(a)

500 m from all neighbouring buildings that




(i)

are residences, or




(ii)

contain businesses in which persons carry on the business during
regular business hours, and




(b)

1 000 m from the nearest property line of all schools, hospitals and
community care facilities.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), a person may carry on open burning at least




(a)

100 m from all neighbouring buildings that




(i)

are residences, or




(ii)

contain businesses in which persons carry on the business during
regular business hours, and




(b)

500 m from the nearest property line of all schools, hospitals and
community care facilities,


if the person ensures that the following conditions are met with
respect to the open burning:




(c)

the vegetative debris is put in piles before it is open burned;




(d)

for each pile of the vegetative debris, the largest horizontal
dimension is not greater than twice the height;




(e)

a written record of the dates the vegetative debris was put into piles
is available to an officer on request;




(f)

the vegetative debris is not comprised of any stumps and the largest
part of each separate portion of the vegetative debris has a diameter
less than 50 cm;




(g)

the vegetative debris is seasoned vegetative debris;




(h)

no later than 24 hours in advance of starting the open burning, all
reasonable efforts are made to give notification of the location of
the open burning to the occupants of all residences, businesses,
schools, hospitals and community care facilities within 500 m of the
open burning, including by giving notification to the persons who
manage the school, hospital or community care facility, as applicable;




(i)

if ventilation forecasts are available for the general area in which
the open burning is located, the following is met:




(i)

that




(A)

a ventilation forecast for that area is obtained on the day, but
before, the open burning starts, or




(B)

a custom ventilation forecast for that area is obtained on the day
before or on the day, but before, the open burning starts;




(ii)

the forecast obtained under subparagraph (i) (A) or (B) is "good" for
the day the open burning starts;




(j)

the open burning starts not earlier than one hour after sunrise;




(k)

the open burning ends by 4 p.m. or two hours before sunset, whichever
is later, on the same day the open burning starts.






Conditions when open burning starts




14


Despite any other provision of this regulation, a person must not
start open burning if the local air flow or atmospheric mixing is
likely to cause the smoke emitted by the open burning to




(a)

negatively impact a nearby population centre or work camp, or




(b)

be a navigation hazard at nearby airports or on nearby highways by
significantly reducing visibility.






Conditions after open burning starts




15


Despite any other provision of this regulation, a person who carries
on open burning must, after the open burning starts, ensure that, if
the local air flow or atmospheric mixing is causing or is likely to
cause the smoke emitted by the open burning to




(a)

negatively impact a nearby population centre or work camp, or




(b)

be a navigation hazard at nearby airports or on nearby highways by
significantly reducing visibility,


no more of the vegetative debris is ignited, added to ignited piles of
the vegetative debris or put in an air curtain incinerator until the
local air flow or atmospheric mixing is not causing and is not likely
to cause the smoke emitted by the open burning to have an effect
described in paragraph (a) or (b).






Custom ventilation forecasts




16


If a person obtains a custom ventilation forecast for the purpose of
carrying on open burning, the person must ensure that the custom
ventilation forecast is




(a)

obtained from a custom ventilation forecaster, and




(b)

submitted by email to the ministry, using the email address made known
by the ministry for the purposes of this section, before starting the
open burning.




Part 3 — Specific Requirements for Open Burning





Application of specific requirements




17

(1)


If open burning is carried on under a plan for community wildfire risk
reduction, the open burning must be carried on in accordance with
Division 1, 2, 4 or 5.




(2)

If the vegetative debris open burned is diseased vegetative debris,
the open burning must be carried on in accordance with Division 1, 3,
4 or 5.




(3)

If the vegetative debris open burned is generated at or transported to
a dry land sort area, the open burning must be carried on in
accordance with Division 4.




(4)

If open burning is carried on using air curtain incinerators, the open
burning must be carried on in accordance with Division 5.




(5)

If subsections (1) to (4) do not apply to an open burning, the open
burning must be carried on in accordance with Division 1.




Division 1 — High, Medium and Low Smoke Sensitivity Zones





Allowable periods of open burning in high smoke sensitivity zone




18


A person with possession or control of a parcel of land that is




(a)

private land,




(b)

smaller than 64 hectares, and




(c)

within or partially within a high smoke sensitivity zone


must ensure that open burning on the parcel of land is carried on no
more than




(d)

12 days or portions of days in each calendar year, and




(e)

6 days or portions of days in each calendar month.






Open burning for less than one day in high or medium smoke sensitivity
zone




19


A person may carry on open burning in either a high smoke sensitivity
zone or a medium smoke sensitivity zone for a period that is less than
one day if the person ensures that the following conditions are met
with respect to the open burning:




(a)

in the case of a high smoke sensitivity zone, the vegetative debris is
seasoned vegetative debris;




(b)

if ventilation forecasts are available for the general area in which
the open burning is located, the following is met:




(i)

that




(A)

a ventilation forecast for that area is obtained on the day, but
before, the open burning starts, or




(B)

a custom ventilation forecast for that area is obtained on the day
before or on the day, but before, the open burning starts;




(ii)

the forecast obtained under subparagraph (i) (A) or (B) is "good" for
the day the open burning starts;




(c)

the open burning starts not earlier than one hour after sunrise;




(d)

the open burning ends by 4 p.m. or two hours before sunset, whichever
is later, on the same day the open burning starts.






Open burning for more than one day in high smoke sensitivity zone




20


A person may carry on open burning in a high smoke sensitivity zone
for a consecutive period that is less than 2 days if the person
ensures that the following conditions with respect to the open burning
are met:




(a)

the vegetative debris is seasoned vegetative debris;




(b)

if ventilation forecasts are available for the general area in which
the open burning is located, the following is met:




(i)

that




(A)

a ventilation forecast for that area is obtained on the day, but
before, the open burning starts, or




(B)

a custom ventilation forecast for that area is obtained on the day
before or on the day, but before, the open burning starts;




(ii)

the forecast obtained under subparagraph (i) (A) or (B) is




(A)

"good" for the day the open burning starts, and




(B)

"good" or "fair" for the second day of the open burning;




(c)

the open burning starts not earlier than one hour after sunrise;




(d)

unlit piles of the vegetative debris are ignited, and remaining unlit
vegetative debris is added to the ignited piles of the vegetative
debris, only during the period that starts one hour after sunrise and
ends 4 hours before sunset on the day the open burning starts;




(e)

the open burning ends by 4 p.m. on the second day of the open burning.






Open burning for more than one day in medium smoke sensitivity zone




21


A person may carry on open burning in a medium smoke sensitivity zone
for a consecutive period that is less than 4 days if the person
ensures that the following conditions are met with respect to the open
burning:




(a)

if ventilation forecasts are available for the general area in which
the open burning is located, the following is met:




(i)

that




(A)

a ventilation forecast for that area is obtained on the day, but
before, the open burning starts, or




(B)

a custom ventilation forecast for that area is obtained on the day
before or on the day, but before, the open burning starts;




(ii)

the forecast obtained under subparagraph (i) (A) or (B) is




(A)

"good" for the day the open burning starts, and




(B)

"good" or "fair" for the second day of the open burning;




(b)

the open burning starts not earlier than one hour after sunrise;




(c)

unlit piles of the vegetative debris are ignited only during the
period that starts one hour after sunrise and ends 2 hours before
sunset on the day the open burning starts;




(d)

remaining unlit vegetative debris is added to the ignited piles of the
vegetative debris only during the period that starts one hour after
sunrise and ends 2 hours before sunset




(i)

on the day the open burning starts, and




(ii)

on the second day of the open burning;




(e)

if a ventilation forecast was obtained under paragraph (a) (i) (A) or
(B), before adding any remaining unlit vegetative debris to the
ignited piles of the vegetative debris on the second day of the open
burning,




(i)

a ventilation forecast or a custom ventilation forecast for that area
is obtained, and




(ii)

the forecast obtained under subparagraph (i) is "good" or "fair" for
the second day of the open burning;




(f)

the open burning ends by 4 p.m. on the fourth day of the open burning.






Open burning for more than one day in low smoke sensitivity zone




22


A person may carry on open burning in a low smoke sensitivity zone for
a consecutive period that is less than 6 days if the person ensures
that the following conditions are met with respect to the open
burning:




(a)

if ventilation forecasts are available for the general area in which
the open burning is located, the following is met:




(i)

that




(A)

a ventilation forecast for that area is obtained on the day, but
before, the open burning starts, or




(B)

a custom ventilation forecast for that area is obtained on the day
before or on the day, but before, the open burning starts;




(ii)

the forecast obtained under subparagraph (i) (A) or (B) is




(A)

"good" or "fair" for the day the open burning starts, and




(B)

"good" or "fair" for the second day of the open burning;




(b)

the open burning ends by 4 p.m. on the sixth day of the open burning.




Division 2 — Plans for Community Wildfire Risk Reduction





Open burning under plan for community wildfire risk reduction




23

(1)


Sections 11 (c) and 13 do not apply to a person carrying on open
burning under a plan for community wildfire risk reduction if the
person carries on the open burning in accordance with subsection (2)
of this section.




(2)

A person may carry on open burning under a plan for community wildfire
risk reduction for a period that is less than one day if the person
ensures that the following conditions are met with respect to the open
burning:




(a)

at least 10 days but no more than 90 days before starting the open
burning,




(i)

the plan for community wildfire risk reduction is submitted to a
director, and




(ii)

a description of the location of the open burning is provided to a
director;




(b)

the open burning is an action identified in the plan for community
wildfire risk reduction;




(c)

no later than 24 hours in advance of starting the open burning, all
reasonable efforts are made to give notification of the location of
the open burning to the occupants of all residences, businesses,
schools, hospitals and community care facilities within 150 m of the
open burning, including by giving notification to the persons who
manage the school, hospital or community care facility, as applicable;




(d)

the open burning is at least




(i)

50 m from all neighbouring buildings that




(A)

are residences, or




(B)

contain businesses in which persons carry on the business during
regular business hours, and




(ii)

100 m from the nearest property line of all schools, hospitals and
community care facilities;




(e)

the following is met with respect to the general area in which the
open burning is located:




(i)

that




(A)

a ventilation forecast for that area is obtained on the day, but
before, the open burning starts, or




(B)

a custom ventilation forecast for that area is obtained on the day
before or on the day, but before, the open burning starts;




(ii)

the forecast obtained under subparagraph (i) (A) or (B) is "good" or
"fair" for the day the open burning starts;




(f)

the open burning starts not earlier than one hour after sunrise;




(g)

the open burning ends by 4 p.m. or two hours before sunset, whichever
is later, on the same day the open burning starts.




Division 3 — Diseased Vegetative Debris





Verification or confirmation of diseased vegetative debris




24


Before carrying on open burning under section 25, a person must




(a)

ensure that




(i)

the vegetative debris is verified as being infested with a pathogen or
insect listed in Schedule 1 by a person registered under the

Professional Governance Act

as:




(A)

an agrologist,




(B)

a professional biologist, or




(C)

a professional forester or registered forest technologist, and




(ii)

the verification referred to in subparagraph (i) is submitted to a
director, or




(b)

ensure that a director has confirmed in writing that




(i)

a pathogen or insect not listed in Schedule 1 has infested the
vegetative debris, and




(ii)

the open burning of the vegetative debris is necessary to stop the
spread of the pathogen or insect.

[am. B.C. Reg. 11/2021, App. 3, s. 14.]





Open burning diseased vegetative debris




25

(1)


Sections 11 (c) and 13 do not apply to a person carrying on open
burning of diseased vegetative debris if the person carries on the
open burning in accordance with section 24 and this section.




(2)

A person may carry on open burning of diseased vegetative debris for a
period that is less than one day if the person ensures that the
following conditions are met with respect to the open burning:




(a)

a director is notified in writing at least 24 hours before the
earliest planned date for starting the open burning;




(b)

at least 50% of the vegetative debris open burned is diseased
vegetative debris;




(c)

accelerant material is used if the diseased vegetative debris is not
seasoned vegetative debris;




(d)

no later than 24 hours in advance of starting the open burning, all
reasonable efforts are made to give notification of the location of
the open burning to the occupants of all residences, businesses,
schools, hospitals and community care facilities within 150 m of the
open burning, including by giving notification to the persons who
manage the school, hospital or community care facility, as applicable;




(e)

the open burning is at least




(i)

50 m from all neighbouring buildings that




(A)

are residences, or




(B)

contain businesses in which persons carry on the business during
regular business hours, and




(ii)

100 m from the nearest property line of all schools, hospitals and
community care facilities;




(f)

if ventilation forecasts are available for the general area in which
the open burning is located, the following is met:




(i)

that




(A)

a ventilation forecast for that area is obtained on the day, but
before, the open burning starts, or




(B)

a custom ventilation forecast for that area is obtained on the day
before or on the day, but before, the open burning starts;




(ii)

the forecast obtained under subparagraph (i) (A) or (B) is "good" or
"fair" for the day the open burning starts;




(g)

the open burning starts not earlier than one hour after sunrise;




(h)

the open burning ends by 4 p.m. or two hours before sunset, whichever
is later, on the same day the open burning starts.




Division 4 — Dry Land Sort Areas





Open burning at a dry land sort area




26

(1)


Sections 9, 11 (c) and 13 (2) do not apply to a person who carries on
open burning of vegetative debris generated at or transported to a dry
land sort area if the person carries on the open burning in accordance
with this section.




(2)

A person may carry on open burning of vegetative debris generated at
or transported to a dry land sort area, no part of which is in a high
smoke sensitivity zone, for a consecutive period that is less than 4
days if the person ensures that the following conditions are met with
respect to the open burning:




(a)

the open burning is carried on in the dry land sort area;




(b)

the open burning is carried on using air curtain incinerators in
accordance with section 28, if all of the dry land sort area is




(i)

in a low smoke sensitivity zone or medium smoke sensitivity zone, and




(ii)

less than 5 km from the nearest boundary of the nearest high smoke
sensitivity zone;




(c)

the open burning is carried on using auxiliary forced air equipment in
accordance with section 27 or air curtain incinerators in accordance
with section 28, if all or a part of the dry land sort area is




(i)

in a low smoke sensitivity zone or medium smoke sensitivity zone, and




(ii)

5 km or more from the nearest boundary of the nearest high smoke
sensitivity zone.






Auxiliary forced air equipment in dry land sort area




27


A person carrying on open burning using auxiliary forced air equipment
as set out in section 26 (2) (c) must ensure that




(a)

the auxiliary forced air equipment blowers operate with a minimum
required air flow of 200 cubic metres per minute at all times the
blowers are operating,




(b)

the auxiliary forced air equipment blowers operate continuously with
respect to a pile of the vegetative debris until the open burning of
the pile is creating its own air convection current,




(c)

the following is met with respect to the general area in which the
open burning is located:




(i)

that




(A)

a ventilation forecast for that area is obtained on the day, but
before, the open burning starts, or




(B)

a custom ventilation forecast for that area is obtained on the day
before or on the day, but before, the open burning starts;




(ii)

the forecast obtained under subparagraph (i) (A) or (B) is




(A)

"good" for the day the open burning starts, and




(B)

"good" or "fair" for the second day of the open burning if the open
burning is for more than one day,




(d)

the open burning starts not earlier than one hour after sunrise,




(e)

unlit piles of the vegetative debris are ignited, and remaining unlit
vegetative debris is added to the ignited piles of the vegetative
debris, only during the period that starts one hour after sunrise and
ends 3 hours before sunset,




(f)

if a ventilation forecast was obtained under paragraph (c) (i) (A) or
(B), for each day the open burning is carried on after the day the
open burning starts and before adding any remaining unlit vegetative
debris to the ignited piles of the vegetative debris,




(i)

a ventilation forecast or a custom ventilation forecast for the area
of the open burning is obtained, and




(ii)

the ventilation forecast obtained under subparagraph (i) is "good" or
"fair" for the day it is obtained,




(g)

if the ventilation forecast obtained under paragraph (f) (i) is "poor"
for the day it is obtained, no more unlit piles of the vegetative
debris are ignited and no more of the remaining unlit vegetative
debris is added to the ignited piles of the vegetative debris, and




(h)

the open burning ends by 4 p.m. on the fourth day of the open burning.




Division 5 — Air Curtain Incinerators





Open burning using air curtain incinerators




28

(1)


In this section, "opacity" means the degree to which smoke obscures
the view of an object in the background, expressed numerically from 0%
(transparent) to 100% (opaque), as determined in accordance with the
United States Code of Federal Regulations, Title 40, Part 60, Chapter
1, Appendix A-4, Method 9, as amended from time to time.




(2)

Sections 11 (b) and (c) and 13 do not apply to a person carrying on
open burning using air curtain incinerators if the person carries on
the open burning in accordance with subsection (3) of this section.




(3)

A person may carry on open burning using air curtain incinerators if




(a)

the open burning is carried on




(i)

between 100 m and 1 km from all neighbouring buildings that




(A)

are residences, or




(B)

contain businesses in which persons carry on the business during
regular business hours, and




(ii)

between 500 m and 2 km from the nearest property line of all schools,
hospitals and community care facilities, and the person complies with
subsections (4) and (5), or




(b)

the open burning is carried on at least




(i)

1 km from all neighbouring buildings that




(A)

are residences, or




(B)

contain businesses in which persons carry on the business during
regular business hours, and




(ii)

2 km from the nearest property line of all schools, hospitals and
community care facilities,


and the person complies with subsection (4).




(4)

For the purposes of subsections (3) (a) and (b), the person carrying
on the open burning must ensure the following conditions are met with
respect to the open burning:




(a)

opacity does not exceed 40% during the 30-minute period following the
start of the open burning and does not exceed 15% for more than 5
consecutive minutes during any other 30-minute period during the open
burning;




(b)

the vegetative debris is not stacked above the air outlet of the air
curtain incinerators;




(c)

the blowers of the air curtain incinerators operate continuously until
the air curtain incinerators cease combustion of the vegetative debris
or until all of the vegetative debris that is being open burned in
them is reduced to ash;




(d)

the air curtain incinerators are operated in accordance with the
manufacturer's recommendations;




(e)

a copy of the manufacturer's recommendations referred to in paragraph
(d) is kept on the site of the open burning for the duration of the
open burning.




(5)

For the purposes of subsection (3) (a), the person carrying on the
open burning must ensure the following conditions are met with respect
to the open burning:




(a)

the open burning starts not earlier than one hour after sunrise;




(b)

the vegetative debris is added to the ignited air curtain incinerators
only during the period that starts one hour after sunrise and ends at
sunset;




(c)

the following is met with respect to the general area in which the
open burning is located:




(i)

that, for each day the open burning is carried on,




(A)

the ventilation forecast for that area is obtained on the day, but
before, the open burning is carried on, or




(B)

a custom ventilation forecast for that area is obtained on the day
before or on the day, but before, the open burning is carried on;




(ii)

the forecast obtained under subparagraph (i) (A) or (B) is "good" or
"fair" for the day the open burning is carried on;




(d)

if the forecast obtained under paragraph (c) (i) (A) or (B) is "poor"
for the day it is obtained, no more of the vegetative debris is
ignited.




Part 4 — Substituted Requirements





Substituted requirements for open burning




29

(1)


A director may, on the director's own initiative, substitute a
different requirement for a requirement contained in this regulation
if the director considers that, in the individual case,




(a)

the substitution is necessary to protect the public or the
environment, or




(b)

the intent of the regulation will be met by the substitution.




(2)

A director may make a substitution under subsection (1)




(a)

for a specified period of time, and




(b)

subject to the conditions the director considers appropriate.




(3)

On making the decision to substitute a different requirement for a
requirement contained in this regulation as set out in subsection (1),
a director must




(a)

serve a signed copy of the director's decision on the person to whom
the substituted requirement applies by registered mail sent to the
person's last known address, and




(b)

publish the decision in a newspaper published in British Columbia and
circulating in the area affected by the decision and includes a
newspaper that is free and that does not have subscribers.




(4)

A director may, on the director's own initiative, cancel or amend a
decision made under subsection (1) whenever, based on new information,
the director considers that




(a)

the cancellation or amendment is necessary to protect the public or
the environment, or




(b)

the intent of the regulation will be met by the cancellation or
amendment.

[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 4.]



Part 5 — Air Protection Measures





Director may prohibit open burning




30

(1)


A director may, by public notice or written instruction or both, and
for a period of time specified by the director, prohibit open burning
in an area




(a)

if the director considers that the amount of particulate matter in the
air in the area has reached, or will reach within 24 hours, a level
that is likely to result in the air quality in the area not meeting
the ambient air quality objectives as set out in Schedule 2, or




(b)

if the director considers that pollution is occurring, or likely to
occur, from open burning.




(2)

A prohibition issued under subsection (1) may include one or more of
the following requirements with respect to open burning in the area:




(a)

all open burning must be extinguished;




(b)

none of the vegetative debris may be ignited or added to ignited piles
of the vegetative debris.




(3)

A director may, by public notice or written instruction or both,
repeal a prohibition issued under subsection (1), if




(a)

in the case of a prohibition issued under subsection (1) (a), the
director considers that the amount of particulate matter in the air in
the area no longer reaches, and will not reach within 24 hours, a
level that is likely to result in the air quality in the area not
meeting the ambient air quality objectives as set out in Schedule 2,
or




(b)

in the case of a prohibition issued under subsection (1) (b), the
director considers that the pollution is no longer occurring, or no
longer likely to occur, from open burning.




(4)

Despite Parts 2 to 4, a person must not act contrary to a prohibition
issued under this section.




Part 6 — Miscellaneous





Records and reporting requirements




31

(1)


A person who carries on open burning using one or more category 3 open
fires or one or more air curtain incinerators must ensure that a
record is made containing the following information with respect to
the open burning:




(a)

the burn registration number, if the person has a burn registration
number issued under the Wildfire Regulation;




(b)

if the person does not have a burn registration number, the person's
name, address and contact information and the geographic location of
the area in which the open burning is taking place;




(c)

any decisions respecting substituted requirements made under section
29 that apply to the open burning;




(d)

any ventilation forecasts or custom ventilation forecasts obtained in
respect of the open burning;




(e)

the date on which the open burning starts;




(f)

the number of piles or air curtain incinerators ignited.




(2)

The person who carries on the open burning referred to in subsection
(1) must




(a)

ensure that the record made under that subsection is kept on site and
available for the duration of the open burning,




(b)

ensure the record is retained for a period of one year beginning on
the start date of the open burning, and




(c)

submit the record to an officer on request.




(3)

The director may, by written notice, require a person or a class of
persons described in subsection (1) to submit, in a form and manner
specified by the director, by March 31 in the year following the year
in which the open burning is carried on, a report that includes the
following information:




(a)

the dates on which open burning is carried on;




(b)

the location of the open burning;




(c)

whether the open burning relates to a domestic or industrial purpose
and, if it relates to an industrial purpose, the name of the industry;




(d)

for each day the open burning was carried on,




(i)

the number of piles ignited and the approximate size of each pile, or




(ii)

the approximate volume of vegetative debris open burned;




(e)

the burn registration number, if the person who carried on the open
burning has a burn registration number issued under the Wildfire
Regulation.






Offences and penalties




32

(1)


A person who contravenes section 12, 17 or 30 (4) commits an offence
and is liable on conviction to a fine of not more than $200 000.




(2)

A person who contravenes section 9, 10, 11, 13, 14 or 15 commits an
offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of not more than $50
000.




(3)

A person who contravenes section 31 commits an offence and is liable
on conviction to a fine of not more than $5 000.






Accessibility of maps




33


The director must ensure that copies of the maps referred to in
Schedule 3 are available




(a)

on a website that is maintained by or on behalf of the ministry of the
minister and is publicly and freely accessible, and




(b)

during regular business hours and without charge at the following
location:


Address:

Environmental Standards Branch, Environmental Protection Division

3rd Floor — 525 Superior Street

Victoria, British Columbia

V8V 0C5


Email:

envprotdiv@Victoria1.gov.bc.ca




Schedule 1


Plant Pathogens




Item

Column 1

Common Name


Column 2

Species



1
Anthracnose and perennial cankers

Cryptosporiopsis curvispora, Cryptosporiopsis alba,
Cryptosporiopsis perennans,

Neofabraea malicorticis, Neofabraea alba, Neofabraea perennans or
Pezicula malicortis



2
Botryosphaeria canker
Botryosphaeria


3
Dutch elm disease

Ophiostoma ulmi, Ophiostoma novo-ulmi or Ceratocystis



4
Eastern filbert blight
Anisogramma anomala


5
European canker
Nectria galligena


6
European larch canker
Lachnellula willkommii


7
Fire blight
Erwinia amylovora


8
Godronia (fusicoccum) canker
Fusicoccum putrefaciens or Godronia cassandrae


9
Leucostoma (cytospora) canker

Leucostoma cinta, Leucostoma persoonii, Valsa cincta or Valsa
leucostoma



10
Oak wilt
Ceratocystis fagacearum


11
Pear trellis rust
Gymnosporangium fuscum


12
Phomopsis canker
Phomopsis vaccinii or Diaporthe vaccinii


13
Plum pox virus or Sharka
Plum pox virus


14
Ramorum blight and canker or sudden oak death
Phytophthora ramorum


15
Thousand canker disease
Geosmithia morbida




Insects




Item

Column 1

Common Name


Column 2

Species



1
Ambrosia beetle
Xyleborus dispar


2
Apple clearwing moth
Synanthedon myopaeformis


3
Asian long-horned beetle
Anoplophora glabripennis


4
Banded elm bark beetle
Scolytus schevyrewi


5
Black pine bark beetle
Hylastes ater


6
Brown spruce long-horned beetle
Tetropium fuscum


7
Citrus long-horned beetle
Anoplophora chinensis


8
Common pine shoot beetle
Tomicus piniperda


9
Dogwood borer
Synanthedon scitula


10
Douglas-fir beetle or larvae
Dendroctonus pseudotsugae


11
Emerald ash borer
Agrilus planipennis


12
European spruce long-horned beetle
Tetropium castaneum


13
Japanese cedar long-horned beetle
Callidiellum rufipenne


14
Mountain pine beetle or larvae
Dendroctonus ponderosae


15
Native and European elm bark beetle

Hylurogopinus rufipes or Scolytus multistriatus



16
Peach tree borer
Synanthedon exitiosa


17
Shot hole borer
Scolytus rugulosus


18
Spruce beetle or larvae
Dendroctonus rufipennis


19
Walnut twig beetle
Pityophthorus juglandis





Schedule 2



Ambient Air Quality Objectives for

Particulate Matter






Column 1

Size of Particulate Matter


Column 2


Air Quality Objective (based on annual

98th percentile value)




PM 2.5

25 µg/m
3



PM 10

50 µg/m
3






Schedule 3


Smoke Sensitivity Zones




Item

Column 1


Provincial Smoke

Sensitivity Map Name



Column 2

Map No.


Column 3

Map Date



1
Penticton
82E
July 3, 2019


2
Nelson
82F
July 3, 2019


3
Fernie
82G
July 3, 2019


4
Kananaskis Lakes
82J
July 3, 2019


5
Lardeau
82K
July 3, 2019


6
Vernon
82L
July 3, 2019


7
Seymour Arm
82M
July 3, 2019


8
Golden
82N/O
July 3, 2019


9
Canoe River
83D
July 3, 2019


10
Mount Robson
83E
July 3, 2019


11
Victoria
92B
July 3, 2019


12
Cape Flattery
92C
July 3, 2019


13
Nootka Sound
92E
July 3, 2019


14
Port Alberni
92F
July 3, 2019


15
Vancouver
92G
July 3, 2019


16
Hope
92H
July 3, 2019


17
Ashcroft
92I
July 3, 2019


18
Pemberton
92J
July 3, 2019


19
Bute Inlet
92K
July 3, 2019


20
Alert Bay
92L
July 3, 2019


21
Rivers Inlet
92M
July 3, 2019


22
Mount Waddington
92N
July 3, 2019


23
Taseko Lakes
92O
July 3, 2019


24
Bonaparte Lake
92P
July 3, 2019


25
Quesnel Lake
93A
July 3, 2019


26
Quesnel
93B
July 3, 2019


27
Anahim Lake
93C
July 3, 2019


28
Bella Coola
93D
July 3, 2019


29
Whitesail Lake
93E
July 3, 2019


30
Nechako River
93F
July 3, 2019


31
Prince George
93G
July 3, 2019


32
McBride
93H
July 3, 2019


33
Monkman Pass
93I
July 3, 2019


34
McLeod Lake
93J
July 3, 2019


35
Fort Fraser
93K
July 3, 2019


36
Smithers
93L
July 3, 2019


37
Hazelton
93M
July 3, 2019


38
Manson River
93N
July 3, 2019


39
Pine Pass
93O
July 3, 2019


40
Dawson Creek
93P
July 3, 2019


41
Charlie Lake
94A
July 3, 2019


42
Halfway River
94B
July 3, 2019


43
Mesilinka River
94C
July 3, 2019


44
Ware
94F
July 3, 2019


45
Trutch
94G
July 3, 2019


46
Beatton River
94H
July 3, 2019


47
Fort Nelson
94J
July 3, 2019


48
Tuchodi Lakes
94K
July 3, 2019


49
Rabbit River
94M
July 3, 2019


50
Toad River
94N
July 3, 2019


51
Cape Scott
102I
July 3, 2019


52
Laredo Sound
103A
July 3, 2019


53
Graham Island
103F
July 3, 2019


54
Hecate Strait
103G
July 3, 2019


55
Douglas Channel
103H
July 3, 2019


56
Terrace
103I
July 3, 2019


57
Prince Rupert
103J
July 3, 2019


58
Dixon Entrance
103K
July 3, 2019


59
Nass River
103P/O
July 3, 2019


60
Bowser Lake
104A
July 3, 2019


61
Iskut River
104B
July 3, 2019


62
Telegraph Creek
104G
July 3, 2019


63
Spatsizi River
104H
July 3, 2019


64
Cry Lake
104I
July 3, 2019


65
Dease Lake
104J
July 3, 2019


66
Skagway
104M
July 3, 2019


67
Atlin
104N
July 3, 2019


68
Jennings River
104O
July 3, 2019


69
McDame
104P
July 3, 2019


70
Tatshenshini River
114P
July 3, 2019




[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Environmental Management Act

, S.B.C. 2003, c. 53, ss. 21, 76, 138 and 139.]



